
    ----CITATION----
        Smythe, James M.. Ethel Somers, or, The Fate of the Union .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7834
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Ethel Somers, or, The fate of the Union 
            
               ETHEL S0MERS OF, THE FATE OF THE UNION. BY                - A SOUTHERNER. "In a confederacy of Sovereign States, Equality of Rights is the cement to perpetuate union; Inequality, the Apollyon to destroy it."' "In necessariis Unitas, in non-necessariis Libertas, in omnibus Charitas."                    Augustus. AUGUSTA, GA.' H. D. NORRELL. 1857.    Entered according to Act-of Congress, in the year One Tliousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-Seven, by JAMES    M. SM    Y THE, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of Georgia.    PREFACE. A BOOK speaks for itself. The reader, whether a critic or not, forms his"own opinions of its merits, and the writer's motives. The following pages would never have been'written had no motive higher than personal gain influenced him. They are intended as anr answer to the work, or the views, of no one in par- ticular; but, as a defence of the "Peculiar Institu- tion" of the South against assaults, whether domestic or foreign. Happy would the writer be, if they could aid, even in a remote degree, in inciting the people of the American Union, particularly in the non-slave- holding States, to patriotism, to justice, and devotion to the Constitution and equal rights of its members. Onf the subject of Slavery it may be truly and mournfully said: Les cartes sout Brouils. Look to the end. Who can tell what the future of this ques- tion may bring forth? There is great truth in this: remark of Velleius Paterculus:   Quod certaminibus ortum ultra metam durat. Whatever the opponents of Slavery may have originally intended, or may now design to effect, one thing is evident: Abolitionism is no longer the spectral- image of an imagined danger. The object may have been, and still is, the overthrow [8]   4     .'    PREFACE. of the institution of Slavery. If pushed too far, that which may have never been intended--the destruc- tion of the American Union-- will be the sure result. It may be well for the people of this country to pon- der and practice this sentiment of Augustin, which will be found on the title page: "In those things which are essential, let there be Unity, in non-essentials Lib- erty, and in all things Charity." The plot of the story is not implex. The main ob- ject being the inculcation of truth with brevity, inci- dents in human life draped in the colors of romance, were resorted to, only as a means of leading the reader to its investigation. In the loco-descriptive portions of the work, the writer-need scarcely say that he drew in part upon imagination. The City of New York is made the lo- cality of a scene at once tragic and illustrative. This was done only for convenience, and not because that city is obnoxious to some criticism for anti-national sentiments and deeds. The best, purest and wisest statesmen, North and South, admit the dangers which threaten our Union. -The introduction of a scene. approximating the super- natural, illustrates the extreme delicacyof the point of difficulty, and the uncertainty of its amicable adjust- ment. ' But a Proem to a Book should not be an essay. Let justice be done - then may the American Union live for ever I TH1JE  AUTHOR.   ETHEL SO MERS. CHAPTER      I. 'y WHO is that handsome and noble-looking young gentleman with whom you were conversing a few minutes since upon the side-walk?" said Edward Clin- ton to George Penland, his friend and relative, to whom and his family he was on a visit at their residence in Louisville, Kentucky, in the month of April, 1855. "That," replied Penland, "is Charles Somers, the son of Colonel Marion Somers, of Mississippi." "And brother of Ethel Somers!" quickly ejaculated Clinton. "The very same," replied Penland, "-but how came you to know anything of Ethel Somers?" I," said Clinton, jocularly, "if I had not been considerably larger in person than Miss Somers, I might have been taken for her shadow at Saratoga, Newport, and other fashionable places, the past summer.. It was glorious to bask in the light of her eyes " "Well," observed Penland, " how would you like to see the beauty and rejoiee in the color of their rays again?" "I was musing of that last night," replied Clinton, " and al- most resolved that as soon as you should tire of me, I would go aboard one of these fine steamers, lying near, and bribe the captain to steam up nearly to the burst- , .   6      . ETBHL SOMERS; OR, ing point on a downward trip." "But :suppose," said Penland, " you could get within the sunshine of the -beauty without that risk, or, taking to a boat at all?" "Penland, eeagerly inquired Clinton, " is Miss Somers in Louisville?" "She certainly is," said he, " and her father and mother, as well as her brother, are here on a visit to Judge Holland, whose wife is the sister of Colonel Somers." "Jupiter and Cupid I how happen- ed it," said Clinton, " that you kept me in ignorance of all this since my arrival last evening until now?" "You must take me for something more than mortal," replied Penland, " to suppose that I could have known the interest you had taken in Miss Somers. I was not aware that you had ever heard of, much less personally known her." "Well, true," said Clinton. "The revel- ation has startled me with surprise and ecstacy. As I have seen you and my cousin, Mrs. Penland, and not only passed through the pleasing ceremonies of meet- ing but circled about in most matters of news of im- mediate interest to you both, I must beg you to show meAthe way to-Judge Holland's residence." "Cer- tainly, It is but a short distance from mine., I have some business at this moment, which will take me by his residence, and while"I pass on to attend to thatj you can-stop and bask in the light of those charming bright eyes, the very thought of which, I perceive, has given. aditional luster to your own." Whten they reached Judge Holland's house, Clinton r ahg the belli inquiredof the servant who appeared,- if Miss Somers was in, and having received an affirm- ative answer; handed his card, and was ushered into a hatnlsomelj :decorated drawing-room. He arose and met:Miss Somers with more than his usual fervor of   THE FATE OF THE' UNION.       7 manner, as she entered the room. After a cordial ex- change of civilities, in which Clinton warmly declared the unexpected happiness he experienced in meeting with her in Louisville, he eagerly inquired after her mother, father, and brother. - "My mother," said Ethel, " will be present in a few moments; my father and brother have just left to -take a short trip into the country, and will not return until late in the afternoon. They have gone to close some business, preparatory to our departure for Mississippi." A cloud passed over Clinton's brow as Ethel stated this, and with an anxious expression of tone and man- ner, he inquired when they would leave. "The day after to-morrow, early in the morning," replied Ethel. ' I deeply regret," observed Clinton, ' that you go so soon." "It would be pleasing to us to remain longerr" replied Ethel, "but my father has received a letter of importance, which calls him home some days sooner than he anticipated going." Clinton looked thoughtful and depressed, but rallied as Mrs. Somers joined them. "I am glad -to see you, Mr. Clinton," said Mrs. Somers, in reply to a similar complimentary declaration of his. "Are you now on the southern tour which you stated last summer you would make at some period of the preseit- year?" "It was not my purpose at present," replied Clinton,' "to go farther south than this city; having designed making the tour in the fall and winter." , "But," said Mrs. Somers, " you should see the SoUth in the-spring and summer, to estimate its beauties properly. It is, then that our sunny clime is seen to thegreatest'advan' ' tage. Nothing can exceed the brightness-and profuSior of our flowers; the verdure of our fields and meiadWs.      .             .   .    8 - .    ETHEL SOMERS; OR, and the glossy green foliage of our primeval oaks and elms, magnolias, and other magnificent and beautiful trees, during those genial seasons." "I have often heard them spoken of in rapturous terms," said Clinton, : by those who have witnessed them; and you possess those beauties of nature much longer than we do at the North, where our summers are so much shorter than yours. The trees there are now perfectly destitute of their rich spring attire, and already I perceive irn the yards and grounds of this city, that the young buds are showing their red, yellow and white, the green  grass blades are peering up through the earth, and flowers of different kinds are decking the parterres with their richpolors, and filling the air with fragrance." "'In our lower latitudes,'! said Mrs. S., " many trees are now in full foliage, the most delicate plants are al- most free from the danger of frosts, the woods are gay with their fresh young leaves, blooms cluster upon the vines, and the land is clothed in the variegated hues of spring-time, and enlivened with the melodies of 'many singing-birds." -  Thus the conversation continued for a brief time, when Mrs. Somers retired, after extending to Edward ,Clinton a warm-hearted southern invitation to visit Woodlawn (the place of her family residence,) in the course of his tour through the South. Ethel united with her mother in this invitation, and Clinton declared he would return home unhappy should anything pre- vent his doing so. Clinton had been engaged but a short time longer with Ethel, in which they referred with mutual pleasure to various incidents of the past summer, and the former alluded with much warmth of expression to the happiness anticipated from his visit 4',              THE FATE OF THE UNION.       9 to Woodlawn, when several lady visitors were an- nounced. He then took a respectful leave, and in reply to an invitation of Ethel, declared he would be' happy to call in the evening again. "Well," said Penland, who was at home when Clin- ton returned, " how does the pretty Miss Somers com- pare now with the same bright creature last summer?" ' Charmingly," said Clinton. "She is more beautiful than ever; her manners are more winning and grace- ful; her feelings, if possible, more generous and disin- terested. She is the soul of purity, and, in my opin- ion, possesses in person and mind the perfection of fe- male excellence; how tender and devoted, she would be in love!" "And," observed Mrs. Penland, who ,had heard these remarks as she entered the room in which Clinton and her husband were- sitting, "I think my cousin Edrard would like to be loved by her." "And so would one or two others," said Penland significantly, with a view to sound his purposes and feelings. Clinton slightly colored at this remark of Penland's; and still further betrayed himselt by the eagerness with which he asked him to what one or two persons he al- luded. Mrs. Penland-to whom her husband had given a sly wink, when his remark was made-smiled pleas- antly at her cousin's blushes and anxious inquiry, and observed, "George is only putting your heart to the test, and you may as well admit that you are a captive at the car of this Mississippi charmer." "She is certainly an object to admire," said Clinton, with affected compo- sure, 'and any man might be proud to possess her love." "Come," said Penland; "we must not press our cousin too closely. Let him have a fair chance. *1   10       rETHEL SOMERS; OR, Miss Somers is a rich prize, (I allude to her personal worth, not wealth;) and all that I would say to my cousin is, if he is inclined that way, let him get into the silken tie if he can." "By all means," said Mrs. Penland. "There is but one opinion of Ethel Somers. She is all that cousin Edward has said of her. With great beauty, she is artless; simple in manner; warm, and sincere in her affections.. Though her father is wealthy, and by common- consent she is admitted to be peerless in personal attractions, such is her good sense and strength of character, that she has not been spoiled by the flattery of her numerous admirers or the faith- ful representations of her mirror. Though a reigning toast, she is not a fashionable belle. She is never spoken of as a pretty parrot,- who, though elegantly dressed, is an insipid, artificial creature. You have heard her laugh, both of you,- as- merry as a bell; but there is no heartless levity about it. Her smile is like a light from fairy-land-something to bewitch and win. Her, form is faultless, and her heart in purity is an earthly heaven." "There," said Penland, as his own pretty young wife finished her eulogy of Ethel Som- ers, "if cousin Edward was outside of the kingdom of love before, that will put him fairly into it. But," said he, abruptly changing the subject, "when will they return to Woodlawn? I heard to-day that Col. Somers will leavd Louisville sooner than he expected." "Yes," said Clinton, "Miss Somers informed me that he is called home by important business, and they ex- pect to leave the day after to-morrow." "That, Clin- ton," observed Penland, " will interfere somewhat with your new-born plans and hopes; but as it was a god- send to you to find Ethel here, I suppose you can put X ..        .            ..   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       " it down as a tide- in the affairs of Edward Clinton, which you can take at the flood, and so manage now, that in your tour in the fall it- may lead on to fortune." "Perhaps," observed Clinton, "it might be best to float upon the tide. Mrs. and Miss Somers both gave me a pressing invitation to visit Woodlawn; and urged that the South is seen to better advantage now, than in the winter. I have engaged to call at Judge Holland's this evening; and should Ibe urged -with fair words and genial warmth to go with them, what harm could it do? You and my cousin could excuse me under the pressure of circumstances, besides, I could come almost at any time to see you again. You have referred to a tide in the affairs of man; you know ,what follows:' "' Omitted, all the voyage of their life, Is bound in shallows and in miseries.' I know, then, you will even prefer that I should get in the smiles of fortune, or at least try to escape its frowns." "Ah! we understand you well," said Mrs. Penland. "You have come to spend at least half a month with us, and now propose to run off with a pair of bright eyes, before the expiration of three days." "But, my love,", said Penland, "I know something about these matters. I violated half a dozen engagements, and offended several of my best friends, in running about after you, before I was in a situation to lord it over you."  "Yes, and like most men, after they get in that situation, you are disposed now to be more punc- tual to your engagements." "Ohi of course l!' said   12     , -ETHEL SOMERS; OR, Penland; 'I can do that without danger now." "But," said he, affectionately and gallantly, "I would have violated a thousand, for success., ,I think, cousin, said Clinton to Mrs. Penland, "that remark has gained you over, and I have won for the present. "Oh yes, cousin-Edward, George knows how to carry a point with me; and I am willing to be won over in that way, so long as he shall remain as sincere in his professions of attachment as I believe him to be at present. We must give you upland let you go; and may you be as happy as both you and Ethel deserve to be. There is one thing I would caution you against," said Penland; " it is-of great importance. 'Col. Som- ers, belongs to that class of southern politicians who are known by the name of Fire-eaters. He is by na- ture a man of kind heart. You will find him social in his bearing, generous to a fault, and boundless in his hospitality; to these traits he unites a Roman firm- ness, which nothing can shake. As a politician, he is a strict constructionist. The South in her unfortunate difficulties with the North, has no son upon whom she could rely with more unfaltering confidence, in weal or woe. While I do not concur with Col. Somers in all of his opinions, I think he is mainly in the right. What I would advise you to do, is, to avoid any expressign of your opinions in opposition to the insti- tution of slavery. Your views, as a northern man, are more conservative than those of the great mass of the people in your section; but, while Col. Somers would treat you kindly-and hospitably at his home, or any where; knowing you to possess them, I could not encourage you to hope for his assent to your marriage with his daughter. How far he might yield to his  .    THE FATE OF THE UNION.        i3. daughter's wishes, could you succeed in: winning her affections, it is impossible for me to say. Next to his wife, daughter and son, Southern Rights are upper- most in his affections. I am not certain but that he is Roman enough to be willing to sacrifice even them, were it necessary, upon the altar of those rights. His marriage with Virginia Lee was an affair of the heart on both sides. I believe he is as fond of her, at this moment, as when he first led her blushing to the hymeneal altar. She is represented to have been as beautiful as her daughter. You can see yet in every feature, the marks of the most singular loveliness. There is a comrnmingled elegance, dignity and gentle- ness in her bearing, which, united with great intelli- gence of expresssion, sincerity of character and capti- vating manners, spread over her whole person a har- monious charm. Charles, you will find, resembles his father in form and feature, making due allowance for the difference in their ages. He is handsome, frank, fer- vid, anid manly in his personal appearance. Perhaps no husband or father ever exercised a greater influence than Col. Somers over the judgements and affections of a wife and children. It has resulted, too, from a threefold cause: affection, the strength and purity of his intellectual and moral' attributes; the gentle,' almost womanly affection, with which he has cherished, protected, and hallowed them. He loves them   with an almost idolatrous devotion, which is perfectly, warmly, and joyously reciprocated. His opinion, his wishes, his joys and his woes, are theirs. It is well at times to be wary; and I have thrown out these hints - that you might take them for what they are worth and perhaps, be enabled thereby to avoid the breakers,    14       MJL'fL .SOMERS; OR, which sometimes, in the sea of love, wreck the bark of the fondest hopes and expectations." "I thank you," replied Clinton, " for the advice you give me. It is well for one to know beforehand the dangers to be encountered in any pursuit; but most of all, those of the heart. Your advice will be a- com- pass to direct me; and thus provided, I hope with a proper use of sail and oar, to avoid the breakers and enter a safe haven. The fact is, I like the character you -have given me of Col. Somers. I believe in the man who will stand by'his rights. He who will -not do it is a craven. The firm, brave man, is respected, even in error; while the coward, especially he who turns pale and submits, or flies when his just rights are assailed, is despised and scorned. No man, Pen. land, detests artifice more than I do. Without con- fessing that I am, or will be a suitor for the hand of Miss Somers; I should never seek it by unworthy means; I should be frank with her and her father. Self-respect would demand that." "Certainly," said Penland. "I know you well enough to believe implic- itly what you assert. My only purpose was to guard you against mere indiscretions, which might be -fatal to success. I never supposed, for a moment, that you would willfully deceive either daughter or father. A brave and conscientious man is not harmed by timely warnings of what he may have to encounter. I threw out my hints knowing you to be such; it is for you to use them as your judgement may dictate." "I am obliged to you for the compliment," said Clinton, iand extremely so for your advice.  Discretion is sometimes the better part of valor. I shall certainly practice it as far as may be compatible with truth and   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      15 honor, and specially with justice to Miss Somers and her excellent father." Edward Clinton's family was not only one of the most respectable, but of the highest social position, in the city of New York. He possessed exalted intellect- ual faculties, a highly cultivated taste, and an amiable, elevated, and glowing heart, whose sympathies were ever active in dispensing good to all about him. This gave a pleasing luster to his character. He loved truth and virtue for their intrinsic excellence; and hated vice in all its artificial guises, as well as in its naked deformities. Free from the thraldom of the baser passions, he experienced and enjoyed the beau- ties and invigorating independence of an atmosphere of moral purity. To a strikingly handsome face and form, he united a graceful dignity, which with intelli- gence and virtue make up the character--of the true- man-the man of honor and principle.  With this very brief exposition of his character, we shall leave him to the reader, to be estimated by the developments which maybe made in the progress of our story.   16       a'#Gl4, SOMERS; OR, CHAPTER    II. WE pass over the incidents of the evening, during the second visit of Clinton at the residence of Judge Holland, with the simple statement that he was delighted with what he saw of'Col. Somers, Charles; Judge H. and his family. He had heard frequently of the easy gracefulness of Southern manners, the, frankness, sincerity and open-heartedness of Southern character. No conception, which he had previously had of these traits among the people of the South, equaled the reality as it was revealed before him inr the refined and cultivated persons to whom we have referred. Mrs. Somers and Ethel again invited him to Woodlawn; and in this they were joined with such pressing cordiality by Col. Somers and Charles, that a  person less interested than himself, would have found it difficultto decline., On the following day, having taken an affectionate leave of Mrs. Penland, and warmly pressed the hand of Penland at, the wharf, Edward Clinton stepped aboard as the bell of a large and elegant boat gave notice, by its merry peals, that she was ready to be -unloosed ;from' her mooring. Hats and handkerchiefs were waved on shore and boat; and the latter was soon majestically floating off upon the yielding bosom of the Ohio. Every part of the boat was filled with passengers, especially the ladies' cabin. It proved to be a gay and merry party, all partiipating in the various amusements on board,   THE rATE OF THE UNION.       17 and enjoylag the beautiful scenery of trees and towns, bluffs and hills, which decked the banks of the river on) either side. While Edward Clinton was not inat- tentive to other fair creatures who thronged the spa- cious saloons of the boat, he was drawn by some irre- sistible influence to the beautiful Ethel; and she was much- oftener than any other, his partner at cards and in the mirthful mazes of the dance. Days and nights passed swiftly away, and Edward found himself un- consciously falling into reveries about the fascinating creature. He had become daily more impressed with a strange interest in her life and destiny, "Am I re- ally in love?" said he to himself. "Is this mysterious feeling which thrills my heart in Ethel's presence, and impresses her lovely image upon it in her absence, love, or only friendship? It is said that love, like a magnet, turns the heart to the object of one's devotion- as the polar star of his hopes. My thoughts are inces:- santly turned to this fairy of the sunny clime. I am en- raptured when I behold her; pained when I see her not. True friendship is a warm   and generous sentiment, and may be even more soft and tender when linking a man's sympathies like a moral chain around the sacred person of a gentle girl; but why this strong attraction, which, like a charm, draws my heart to Ethel?" These thoughts were passing through Edward Clin- ton's mind as he was, alone, promenading the spacious deck of the boat, having just bid her good-night, as she retired to rest.  It was a pretty, moon-lit night-. The sky was serene and clear, and the waters of the Missis- sippi presented an expansive sheen of silver light. It was an hour and scene suited to young love's romance. Clinton thought of Ethel's eyes, so blue and bright, of   18       ETIfL, SOMERS; OR, her voice so soft and sweet, when, but a few moments ere she had sung a tender canzonet, while in playing the air, her white fingers fell soft as dew upon the ivory keys of a richly toned piano-of her gracile, but  full and graceful figure, her spiritual face, her fascinat- ing carriage, her happy flow of spirits; but; above all, the noble, generous sentiments of her heart. There is nothing in such a contemplation, inconsistent with the gentle ties and sacred fire of friendship. But a moment- ary faintness came over Clinton's heart, as the idea flashed across his miilnd, that Ethel might then be thinking of another-of one to, whom, she was be- trothed I Friendship would have gilded the thought with warm, bright wishes, that she and the absent one might meet again and be supremely happy. Clinton sought his berth to seek in sleep relief from his troubled reverie. Ethel's bewitching smiles and "sweet eye-glances" on the following day, were by no means calculated to restore his lost equilibrium. Late in the afternoon they were together upon'the deck of the aquatic] palace, which moved with majestic grace and beauty upon the rapidly rolling waves of the Father of Waters. It was a lovely spring evening. The sun was sinking amidst golden clouds behind the distant hill topsj and the foliage of the trees which fringed the river banks, had assumed a darker green. A fresh breeze was blowing from the west, and Clinton thought he. had never before seen Ethel ipok so beautiful and bewitching, as when it breathed balmily upon her rosy cheeks, and gently lifted her glossy auburn curls. He had resolved to test the'affections of her young heart, to tempt by artful delicacy the hue of inward memo- ries to. her fair face; as light and shadowy clouds pass !  *             .L   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     19 across and checker the azure sky. The thought that she loved another, had haunted him in his sleep the preceding night, and disturbed his usual flow of spirits through the day. "It is pleasant, Miss Somers, when far away from home," said he, "when traveling, as we now are, upon a great highway of the world, to remem- ber the friends we have left behind." "Yes," said Ethel, "particularly at an hour like this, when the golden'light of the sun is growing -every moment fainter, and we know that night will draw them around-the family hearth and altar. ITremember well when absent for several years at school, how weeks seem6d lengthened into months. How often each day and night did my- thoughts hover around the loved ones at home. How bitter would separation be but for the sweet alloys of memory; the blissful power to plume imagination's wing, and make- it bear us to those we-love; though absent, I used thus to hear the' sweet voices of my beloved parents and brother, to see their smiles, and to be happy in their love." "There is," said Clinton, "a great difference in your case and mine at present. I am going many hundred miles farther *om home, you are rapidly approaching yours; and besides, your parents and brother are with you." "True," said Ethel, "but the facilities for trav-  eling now are such, that you can soon accomplish your tour and return, as I hope you will, pleased and grati- fied with what you may have seen in our sunny clime." "I feel grateful," said Clinton, for your kind wishes, were I to return home now, they would be more than realized; I have been pleased, delighted, charmed; upon this river palace, and with all the infinite variety of magnificent and exquisite scenery which has beesn   20       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, presented to my enraptured gaze. You speak, Miss Somers, only of the domestic circle;. but,- sometimes, outside of that, there is a magnet which draws the heart with a witching power." "Ahl" observed Ethel, looking up archly at Clinton, "I begin to com- prehend you. Yes, sometimes there is a magnet out- side of the domestic circle; and I strongly suspect that Mr. Clinton feels the power of one at this moment. How true it is love will show itself., Guilt-may be hid, but love cannot." Ethel' laughed merrily when she made this remark, the more so as she saw the fixed and earnest gaze of Clinton, who seemed absorbed in some enthralling contemplation. The truth is, his thoughts at that moment were a peculiar melange, such as might be supposed to exist in the mind of one who was uniting in his own person, at once, the scrutiny of the physiognomist, and the fears, doubts and admir- ation of the lover. No psychologist ever studied the human soul with deeper intensity of thought and feel- ing than he did Ethel's, within the space of a few mo- ments. Her merry laugh indicated that she was not in love, at least with him. Thus far Clinton was baf- fled in his'purpose; but love is ingenious, and he took a new turn. "You are so fully convinced, Miss Som- ers, that I have left behind a magnet such as we have spoken of, that it might be vain ih me to deny it; but I dreamed of you last night." "Of me?" said Ethel. "Yes, of you and another-a handsome young man." Clinton uttered this with so earnest an expression of tone and countenance, that while Ethel laughed heart- ily at him, she betrayed some surprise .and eagerness in inquiring its purport. "I dreamed," said, Clinton, "that when you landed from this boat, I saw your   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       21 face alternately redden and grow pale- a -gentle con- fusion possesed you, but over all was spread a light of secret joy. The cause was soon revealed; for a tall, handsome young man pressed eagerly forward, clasped your hand in both of his, and looked for all the world the beau ideal of a happy lover. The vision pass- ed off, leaving you a gentle, confiding, yielding snow- drop; and he, impassioned, fervent, ecstatic, pressing it like a charm to his bosom." "Both of us then," ob- served Ethel, "seemed to be very happy?"    "Per- fectly so," replied Clinton. "What," said Ethel, " did you think of the vision?" "To be candid with you," said Clinton, "I awoke at that particular junctures of my dream, and resolved, at Once, that in some way I would bring it to your attention, as I felt deeply anxious to ascertain if there be the least foundation for that sleeping picture to be true?" "If it is," said Ethel, "I can conceive of no reason why you should be solicitous to know it." Clinton placed his hand to his brow to hide his emotion, and remark, ed, "There is a reason for it--to me a profound reason -one which touches every fiber of the soul; but per- mit me to say, beautiful, incomparable Miss Somers, if there be a foundation for it, I should hold it-sacred, though it might be a consuming fire to my life!" This he uttered with an earnestness so sincere, and a tone so deeply pathetic, that Ethel was startled; not so much by his manner, as her instinctive perception of his true feelings towards her. Seeing her surprise and excitement, Edward quickly remarked, "I beg you to forgive me, if I have in any degree displeased you, or trespassed upon the sacred affections of your heart. A few months' acquaintaintance have impressed   22       Et'HE:L SOMERS; OR, me with a respect for you which language cannot express, and inspired me with a love which I have been unable to conceal. I do not know that I could more fully re- veal it; but, with your permission, I would present it as an idolatrous offering at the shrine of your matchless beauty and worth." Ethel had noticed, particularly for the last few days, the constant and devoted atten- tions of Edward; but she had attributed them partly to his being a stranger to most of those on board, and' partly to her intimacy with her brother. His atten- tions had somewhat excited her notice, but she was not aware of their meaning and scope, until the occa- sion to which we have specially directed the attention of the reader. In reply to the last remark of Clinton, she said: "*It is due to myself to say that my affec- tions are unengaged. Your dream, like many others, was the fiction of the mind in sleep. I have known you but a short time.   What I know  of you has secured my esteem. I thank you for the exalted com- pliment you pay me, and I feel every disposition to treat it with respect." Suddenly changing the subject, she remarked, c Do you not perceive, Mr. Clinton, that it is growing late? Lfear longer to be exposed to the open air upon deck." "I beg you to pardon me," said Clinton, "for detaining you here so long. I had forgot- ten that the dewwas falling." He then harided her to the ladies' cabin, and they participated in the usual amuse- ments of the evening, until the hour for retiring to rest. Edward was in high spirits .during the evening; for his jealous fears had been quieted by Ethel's de- claration that her affections were unengaged. Besides, he had reason to believe that she had not been offended at what had passed on deck, as he saw her beautiful i'       '                *,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      28 tresses decked with no other ornament during the oc- casion, than a small white rose, which he had obtained at one of the landings, and presented to her. CHAPTER III. AMONG those who took passage with Clinton at Louisville, was a young man named Hervey. He was an abolitionist of the first water, and a shrewd, artful"-y and malicious fellow, who was fond of prying into other people's affairs, not from curiosity alone, but to disturb their quiet and enjoyment.  He had-had a passing acquaintance with Clinton in New York. The latter, while he saw a lurking repulsiveness in his looks, was not aware of the total depravity of his character. Soon after the boat left the landing at Louisville, he approached Clinton, and with a smooth and studied smile, remarked: "I little expected to find you here, but I am confounded glad to see you. It is quite comfortable to meet with one who hails from the region of true freedom, as one is passing through these dark and barbarous regions of the South.   I have scarcely opened my mouth since. I crossed the line, not knowing at what moment one of these semi-savages might salute me with a bowie-knife, or the ball of a pistol." - "Ithink," said Clinton, "you underratelboth southern character, and your own  courage. I have found the people of the South, such of them as I have seen in the North, and thus far in the South, as intelli-   24 -      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, gent, social and refined as those of any other section.' "Ah! wait a while," said Hervey, "you have seen only some of the civilized few. Wait until you come in contact with the masses, and get better acquainted with some of these, too, who make more pretension to purity and honor. You will then become utterly dis- gusted with the ignorant savageism of the slave drivers, and the foul and hypocritical pretensions of those who loll in their palaces and urge them on." "I have heard many hard things said of the South,5 replied Clinton, "and, I shall soon be able to judge of their truth from personal observation." "How far," said -Hervey, " do you go down into these infernal regions?" ".I do not know how 'far south I may go," replied Clinton, " it will depend altogether upon circumstances." "I see," said Hervey, ' that you have been talking with Col. Somers, and a young man whom I take to be his son,-as the latter addressed him with the title of father." "Yes," replied Clinton, "I became acquainted with both of them in Louisville. How did you happen to know Col. Somers?" "I saw him," replied Hervey, "something less than a year ago, in Vicksburg, Mis-  sissippi, I stopped at the same hotel he did; and I hoped never to lay eyes upon him again., Even some of his own people said that he was the wildest kind of a fire-eater. It would have made your blood boil to have heard him talk of the North as I did. I verily believe he would be willing to see it torn from the continent, and buried in the bottom of the ocean." "I have not seen anything in Col. Somers," said Clinton, "to give-me such an opinion of him as you appear to entertain. He is possessed of aTform and features which would attract attention in a crowd of perfect strangers,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      25 but I am sure that no one would be impressed unfavor- ably towards him. I have found him social, refined, and ever gentle in his manners." "You have not seen him in his true colors as yet," said Hervey, " when you shall have done so, you will compare a Bengal tiger favorably with him."   Hervey sought occasions to converse with Clinton, but by degrees, he approached him less frequently, as he perceived the ripening inti- macy between him and Charles Somers, and saw him often engaged in long and earnest conversations with Col. Somers and his daughter Ethel. "That shrill whistle," said Charles Somers to Clinton, "announces our approach to Vicksburg." Soon after, the boat rounded to, and Col. Somers and family, and Clinton, were landed at the wharf. After taking a hasty repast at one of the hotels, they were comfortably seated in the mail train of cars for Jackson. Having arrived at that city, convey- ances were soon procured, and in less than an hour they reached the elegant mansion of Col. Somers, which was situated a few miles from it. Clinton was wel cored to- Woodlawn with true southern hospitality. Owing to the lateness of the hour whenw they reached it, he could not properly estimate its beauties. From the window of his richly furnitured apartment, he looked out in the early morn, upon a prospect of ex- ceeding loveliness. The green land sloped away in the rear, just' beyond the verdant fields, contiguous to a beautiful and highly cultivated garden. The Pearl river could be seen gracefully winding along its chan- nel for at least a mile, while the moving mirror of its -waters was reflecting the golden beams of the morn- ing sun. On either hand were woodlands covered with 2.   26       E lTHEiL SOMEES; OR, the original growth of oaks, hickory, chestnut, and other beautiful trees, trimmed up to a lofty height. Many of them were grand old trees, whose sturdy forms and ( numerous branches, gracefully bending beneath their young- green leaves, had defied a hundred storms. Here and there were magnificent water-oaks covered with perennial foliage, which contrasted beautifully in the winter with their temporarily naked and melan- choly companions. What Clinton saw from his room gave him a zest to-see more, and after the morning repast was over, he walked with Charles to feast ,his eyes upon the previously unseen beauties of the place. The house was situated upon a gentle eminence; the sides of the avenue which led from the house to the road were ornamented with a variety of beautiful trees, mostly evergreens, which nearly overarched it with their pendant branches.  Graceful roses and vines affectionately wreathed their flowering arms around the various summer houses which adorned the yard, and the beautiful columns which supported an- upper portico of elegant architecture. T The fagade was neat and stylish, and in the rear were several alcoves, afford- ing with their sofas and richly cushioned chairs, delight- ful retreats for repose or recreation in the warm season of the year. ,A profusion of the choicest shrubbery and flowers, interspersed with -low-trimmed cedars and hollies, decorated the grounds'in front, while green fields and orchards at suitable distances, and in appro- priate places, gave to the whole 'place a highly pictur- esque and charming appearance. !"Isee, Miss Somers," said Clinton, as he and Charles entered the portico, " why you spoke so often of your dear home in the South." "Yes," said Ethel, "I often,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       27 thought, when absent, of the truth conveyed in the words,            ' "Home, thy joys are passing lovely; Joys no stranger heart can tell." H"'ome," continued she, "is the loveliest, sweetest oasis, in the great desert of life." As Charles passed on into the house, Clinton observed to Ethel, "I have often thought, that to one traveling in a far distant land, or tossed .upon the billowy ocean, nothing could so engross the thoughts as home, sweet home; and ,yet, with all dues affection for home, with reverence, and homage, and love for parents, and devotion to the land of my birth, I am happy here." He looked with tender earnestness at Ethel as he uttered this. Ethel 'gently and sweetly smiled, while a slight tinge was visible upon her lovely cheek, as she replied, "I am pleased, Mr. Clinton, to know  that anything in the South can so beguile your thoughts from contempla- tions of home, as to make you at least content in ab. sence. I owe you a debt of gratitude for many kind attentions, when absent from my home; and shall be happy, in common with my father and the other mem- bers of his family, to reciprocate your kindness in ab-' sence from yours." Mr. Clinton," said Col. Somers, (who approached them at that moment), "Charles and myself will be - pleased, if agreeable to you, to show you my place on a  more extended scale than is visible from my resi- dence." "Certainly," said Clinton, "I am desirous of seeing your methods of cultivation and your growing crops." Horses were soon brought round, and  the gentlemen mounted in their saddles.  "Iwill first," He  {,   28       ETMEL SOMERS; OR, said Col. Somers, "'take you to look at the group of houses which are occupied by my servants. Indeed, we have to pass by them in our approach to the river, on which is situated the best cotton land on my place." These houses were neat buildings, with double rooms, and chirmneys running up through the middle, to afford fire-places for each room. /They were sepa- rated by plank fences with yards in front, and gardens in the rear. A street in 'front was ornamented with trees, and many of the yards possessed some shrubbery and occasionally flowers, according to the taste of their respective occupants. "This large house," said Col. Somers, "contains four spacious and comfortable rooms,- and is used as a hospital. When my servants prefer it, and in cases of unusual sickness among them, they are placed in it, and nursed with peculiar care. I have two or three elderly female servants who, from constant practice, know -how to manage ordinary cases, and have become quite skillful in carrying out the directions of my phy- sician in more difficult ones ; I have found it a great convenience and decided saving, to say nothing of the requirements of humanity. My servants are amply supplied with wholesome and substantial food, and in my opinion, perform less labor than any of the white working classes in this or any other country. But one, a very valuable servant, has ever attempted to leave me; and he was enticed off by some unknown person about eight or ten months since. He was making a visit to some of his relatives who lived in'Vicksburg. I made some effort to find him, but have not heard of him since he left. It is difficult to account for his leav- ing me, for he was, ever a. favorite servant, and :ws-: /   THE FATE OF THEE UNION.      29 treated with much more kindness than usually falls to the lot of the white poor in sections where- slavery does not exist." "Your servants," said Clinton to Col- onel Somers, " certainly have very comfortable houses. But surely, from what I have heard, this must be an exception to the rule." "There are but few," replied Colonel Somers, "who have provided better habita- tions for their servants than- these are, but many of our planters have as good. A great many others prepare houses built of logs, which are made close, with "a cement of clay and lime, and frequently with, clay alone. While such houses have rough and ugly exte- ,riors, I am not certain but they are more comfortable than these you now behold."  "Servants, then," said Clinton, " do not sleep in holes and under old sheds, sometimes exposed to the weather, the rains and cold ,of winter?"Never," said Col. S. with a smile. "I know that the abolitionists have circulated such stories, and many others equally absurd, but I have traveled extensively over this and other slave states, and I have never seen an instance such as you refer to; nor did I ever see a man, white or black, who ever did.' Several of the yards were filled with negro children from early infancy to fourteen years of age, who were collected together under the special care of old and experienced women, who watched and protected them while their parents were at work in the fields. This was a new sight to Clinton, and he expressed the pleas- ure afforded him by their gambols in the sun, and the watchful guardianship of those whose duty it was to see to their well-being and safety. From these houses they rode to an adjoining field- in which a large-nui. * ber of hands were plowing and hoeing the young corn.   -30       ETHEL SOMEPS; OR, To these -such moderate tasks were given that many of them had much more than half completed them, although it was but little past the hour of ten. The negroes whistled and sang as they followed thei- plows, and not only seemed, but were happy at their work. Clinton, from the moment he reached the pIan- tation of Colonel Somers until he left it, eyed with curiosity and scrutiny the relative bearings of the white and black occupants of the soil. He had been taught to believe that the southern masters were more cruel than eastern nabobs; that the slaves were regard- ed with but little more humanity than the brutes; that the domestic relations of the whites and blacks ex- hibited pride, impatience, contempt, and cruelty, on the one hand, and fear, discontent, hatred, and despair, on the other. He-looked in vain for the melancholy faces, the shrunken limbs, the haggard looks, the slug- gish misery which he had been so often told was to be seen on every plantation in the southern states. He looked in vain for symptoms of that secret desire for vengeance which he had been told was checked by whips, and chains, and torture. It was not to be seen in the joyful strides, glad looks, and cheerful voices of more than half aa dozen servants-men, boys, wo- men, and girls, who rushed forward to meet Colonel Somers and his family, as they drove up to the man- sion y* Colonel Somers and Charles shook the older servants by the hand, and spoke words of kindness to all. 'Charles somewhat checked their noisy salutations :; bytellngthem, in an undertone, that a young gentle- ma   iie North had come to pay them a visit, and lin:tie carriage, behind, with his mother and Ethel, bit it-could not subdue the fervor with which they '   -  /      ;  '  ' ;).                      ;   TH1 FATE OF THEE UNION.     81 "howdy'd " with "Missus" and " young Missus," and expressed the honest joy their return afforded them. Mrs. Somers and Ethel, like Colonel Somers and Charles, had something, kind to say to each one, and indeed were sincerely glad to see these honest and affectionate dependants. T-The whole scene was quite novel and decidedly surprising to Clinton. He, too, gave a nod of notice to them, who aping "Marster" and "Mars Charles," smiled and bowed as they quickly passed around to unstrap the trunks and convey them and other baggage into the house. :,' While engaged in this, old Joe, the gardener, said to one of the other servants, "He's a nice young gem- man ef he is from de norrard. He's arter young Missus sartin as Moses. I wonder whar she kotch him." : "Yes he is," said the other; "but it may be wid him like some of de rest, dey couldn't come it,   ; and maybehe can't come it."' "It's youngMissusbis- ness," said old Joe. "When she takes a notion to de bate, then it'el do, not afore." "But," said the other. He aint equal to Mars Charles." "Neber mind 'bout dat at dis time," said old Joe. "Dat'l 'pend 'pon top ob suckumstances; Ki I he step so proud I and he look'd at us an' eberyting round wid a smile so per- ticlar like a gemman, dat he's one, else old Joe's-seen sciety for notin' at all. But -wait, ef young Missus says de word, then he 'll come up to de notch next to Mars Charles sartain. .Ef she don't, den we can only co'tend dat ef you trabel clean round de norf pole yoel ' can't find anoder in dem regums more niec:, lie ,s-.' ; B- "Dem's my sentiments," said the othif    -  - splain'd dem myself, I could n't a loomima mde st' . as elumquenshally as yourself, "Dat'a talidn l^ *,   832 *      1hETL SOMERS; OR, - pint," said old Joe. "I'se trabeled from Virginny to dis place and seen sciety in a'most ebery part ob de wurld, an' de best sciety at dat. You's yung yit. It takes time to make Sol'mons ob yung niggers like you is., I wore spectickels afore I got dar :myseff." Clinton witnessed similar scenes at other times at the dwellings of the negroes and in the fields, wher- ever Colonel Somers and Charles happened first to meet their servants after their return. We have thus gone back to show the reader what kind of recep- tion was given to Colonel Somers and his family by the slaves whom Providence had placed under their charge. It made a great impression upon Clinton's mind, for in a moment, it dissipated the, delusions which had hung over it about the relative feelings of masters and slaves. At least they no longer existed as far as Colonel Somers and his servants were concerned. He saw nothing during his stay at Woodlawn, incon- sistent with this exhibition of mutual regard, sympathy and good will. -Having rode over the most fertile fields, especially those planted in corn and- cotton, and passed through some of the most attractive woodlands, Colonel Som- ers, Charles, and Clinton, returned about noon to the house. "',I fear, Mr. Clinton," said Ethel, after they had become seated in- the parlor, " that our country life can- afford but little, attraction to you, who have been accustomed to the gay amusements and varied rI ;leasures of city life, especially of such a city as New r "Y:/Giork,: ^;"deed,. you need not fear that, Miss Somers. Il ,a1:  4t country for some years, and know how t  pila te it. Life in the country is more calm, pp:Plg, and innocent, than in cities. It is freer from ;H   THE FATE OP THE UNION.       83 affectation, frivolities, and vanities." "It would be singular that you should think so," said Ethel, "if you had not lived in the country. For my part I should like an occasional exchange, but I believe Charles would prefer all the time a rural life." "I certainly should," said Charles. "We have lived in a city, and I do not think th7ere is any comparison be- tween town and country. -Country life, free from the dust and contagion of the city, conduces to peace, health, and contentment. One often, experiences a lassitude in the confined air and inactivity of city life, from which he is exempt in the country." ' ' I have often observed the fact of which you speak," replied Clinton. "The pure, breeze of the country gives ad- ditional vigor to the frame, and animation to the spirits. No one can walk out into the fields and woods, as- cend the hills, or descend into the vales,"stand upon' the banks of flowing rivers, or murmuring brooks, be- hold the blue sky- overhead, or the verdant plains un- der foot, listen to the fall of cataracts, the sighing of the winds, or the music of birds among the trees and flowers, without emotions of pleasure and grateful ac- knowledgements to heaven for its goodness." "-I greatly admire your taste in that respect," said Charles. "It is to me a source of constant and pleasing interest to watch the changes of the seasons. Each has its pe- culiar charms. To me there is. but little difference in the pleasures they afford. I feel as much delighted ; with the --naked 'irregularities of the winter as in thJ :f season of green fields and leafy trees, uts-ani flowers." "You certainly cannot take ams- ure in the winter, Charles," said---Ethel, " je' e spring and summer. How can the cold bl 2*            .   .  ^"    34       M'hiEL SOMERS; OR, and leafless woods of that season, compare with the bright sunny landscapes of the latter, when the birds sing among the waving branches of the trees, which, then look so symmetrical, so rich in their green, droop. ing branches, while their foliage reflects so beautifully the dancing sunbeams as they flutter in the gentle winds." "All that I greatly admire," said Charles. "I love to roam  on the banks of the amber-colored streamlet, which flows so sweetly to the river on the south of us, and watch the flocks and, herds of cattle as they browse in the green meadows which lie upon its banks. I love to see the growing crops, and later, the yellow waving harvests, and the snowy fields of cotton; but winter is the peculiar season of mind. It is then that our intellectual and moral being gathers up its greatest strength. The thoughts are called in from wanderings over hill and dale, and man, like the honey bee, having finished his labor and gathered its rewards, can feast in repose upon their sweets. 'Tis sweet to me, reclining in a' soft arm chair before a cheerful fire, to listen to the sighing of the winter winds, and the gentle pattering of driving sleet, and in the pages of some favorite author see, with the spirit's eye, scenes and thoughts which linger like music in the soul. - And it is none the less enchanting to me, if night the while should be stealing o'er the world under the guidance of the bright sentinels of the sky." "But," said Clinton, "is it no alloy to your pleas- re, on occasions such as you describe, to remember -':hat. the po are suffering for want of the material ' o   b "! arm fires, food, and clothing?", "I have  s-^im:.saMd Charles in reply, "been disturbed by riections like those, for with me, charity begins at r *   THE FATE OF WTE UNION9.      8  home, and in our section we have none so poor as to be destitute of those essentials to which you refer. Such reflections, I should suppose, would intrude themselves upon the minds of those who are surround- ed by the destitute, and urge them to minister from their hoarded wealth to their pitiless wants. Here the climate is so benignant that snow seldom falls, and frosts are ,light. This, Mr. Clinton, for the poor, is one of the most delightful regions of the earth. Land -  is obtained cheaply, the soil is prolific, and the win-  ters are merciful. Here the conversation was interrupted by the en-  trance of Mr. Manfred Lee, a fine-looking and graceful young man, who lived a few miles distant from the: residence of Col. Somers.' He and Clinton eagerly   '-i grasped each other's hands, for they were already ac  quainted, Mr. Lee being the nephew of Mrs. Somers,. under whose escort Mrs. S. and Ethel had visited the- North, the previous summer. "I am glad to see you in our section," said Lee;  and none the less that you have come earlier than you anticipated last summer." "I thank you kindly," said Clinton, I' I did not expect when I left New York to go South until the fall, and I am indebted to chance, the invitation of kind friends, and an inclination which H did not exert myself to -resist, for being : : here." "I hope you have been pleased with what  you have seen of the South?" a' Oh, delighted I If all the South is like that which I have seen, the world  can boast of no green spot which could linger mori- -- ' sweetly in memory. All thatis needed-ihere are the^-  monuments which time, and time alone -cam ^te, ,; to give distinctive gloryto the land.. Your Cou is    86       M'L'ti^T SOMERS; OR, new; but with such a people, such skies, such a soil, it will exceed in time other older sections in the beau- ties of art, and the treasures of wealth. By the by," continued Clinton, "as there is no unfriendly ear present, permit me to inquire how fares the pretty and gentle Miss Otway, whose charms assailed your heart so successfully last summer? I am told that she re- sides in this neighborhood, and that you were secretly instrumental in enticing her from the North, and in having her conveniently located." Lee could not conceal the blushes which this sudden allusion to Miss Otway brought to his cheeks, but ral- lying observed in reply: "I must reserve an explana- tion of that matter, until you favor us with a visit at Rosehill." "I am  not surprised," said Ethel, "that cousin' Manfred's face kindled as it did; for we' have teased him excessively about Miss Otway. He tried to conceal his agency-in getting her here; but we found it out Aflly. I will, however, leave him to tell you all about it, as he has promised to do." J.          . *   THE FATE OF THE UNION..     87 CHAPTER ,IV. CHARLES and Clinton spent the greater part of the following day at Rosehll, during which visit, while the former was engaged with other members of the family, Lee related to the latter the circumstances con- nected with Miss Otway's. removal to the South.     ; "Yourknow, Clinton," said Lee, "I frankly confessed to you my love for Emily Otway. If ever there was a case of love at first sight, mine was' of that ,kind. With a heart free and untouched by its subtle power, I was in chains the first hour of our acquaintance; my emotions in that short time were mysterious, in- tense, overwhelming. There seemed to be a fascina- tion in her dark eyes, which bound my soul in a spell. It would be in vain to attempt a description of the sweetness of their expression. Her lovely face seemed illumined by their rays, and they beamed kindly while holding me in a species of spiritual enchantment; but you saw her and the mould of beauty in which her      person was cast, I need not, therefore, dwell upon that. - Mentally, as physically, she seemed to me without a parallel. Her mother's health was not improved by her stay at the Springs, and they suddenly concluded    to return home. ]uring the few days of my acquaint-   I ange with them, I had but little opportunity of being in Miss Otway's company. -I kept, however, faithful vigils over her movements, prompted as I was by a ' sudden and intense attachment. These enabled me to ?: X??'i /i!j   838   '   ETlfYIJ SOMERS; OR, see and hear that which added fuel to the) flame of my devotion; there was nothing in the bright array of fashion and the allurements of pleasure, which could draw her from the side of her mother. She turned from them all to repay her mother's tender love with the gentlest and purest affections. At all times of the day-from the earliest morn to the twilight hour-she ministered like an angel to her mother's wants. In heaven I could 'scarcely hope to see a lovelier vision, than that which charmed me the day before they left. It was a placid summer eve, carmined by .the softest rays which the King of Light leaves behind him, to proclaim his departing majesty. His rays hung over the western sky, like-- urtains of damask and gold drawn around his couch of rest. In an open portico, a graceful maiden sat by a softly cushioned chair. Its occupant was dressed in flowing robes of white. Her pale cheek rested upon the maiden's bosom, whose tresses fell in dark profusion upon her shoulder. If words were spoken, they were inaudible to me; but, oh those tdnder ]ooks; those devoted glances'l Af- fection never soothed -infancy in its weakness, with i sweeter tones; or revealed its fondness in hues more richly dyed in the tints of heaven. A moment more and they were gone. Such was Emily, hallowing the ' sacred person of her fading mother. I saw her once again-a few moments at her home. Mrs. Otway had improved in'health, and Emily was made bright and happy. by the pledge of ever-springing hope that she K would soon recover. 'I did not reveal my love to Emr ily, but asked permission to be ranked among her nuerous friends. I shall never forget the glance she  gave me-k'ind and thoughtful-as she sweetly smiled ,.    THEE FATE OF THE UNION.      189 and said, 'My esteem and friendship, Mr. Lee, is due to you, independent of your worth and merits, for the kind solicitude you so often manifested for my mother's health and safety.' 'I shall soon visit the- North) again,' said I, 'and will be happy to call upon you. I hope too to find your mother,perfectly restored.' I then took a respectful, and I must say, sad leave of that charming creature. Chance threw me, about the middle of January, in company with an elderly gentle- man, who resides in the village of M--, in the state of New York. I met with him in the city of Memphis. Knowing that Miss Otway's father resided there, I in- quired of him and his family, and was surprised to learn that Mr. Otway had died a few weeks after my return from the North, and that Mrs. Otway, whose health had been extremely delicate, in three weeks afterwards, followed him to the grave. This gentle- man further informed me, that claims were preferred against Mr. Otway's estate, (never large), which left Emily without fortune, if not wholly without friends. Thus was this gentle girl-so tenderly reared-so full of hope--so rich in personal graces-thrown, in a sea- son of bitter bereavement, upon the rough and turbid stream of life, to contend witch difficulties from which masculine intellect and strength often recoil with dread. But at a time when like a blighted flower, she    i felt the withering blasts of sorrow and adversity, Mrs.  Manners, (the wife of the gentleman to whom I have  referred, and wha was her father's friend) said to her,  I  in words which fell like gentle dews -upon her worn , and feverish heart: 'Daughter, Death, it is true, has desolated your once happy home; but it i a consola- tion to believe that it has wafted the spirits of you   m -X   40-     i ETHEL SOMERS; OR, ,dear: parents to a new home in the skies. In a ferw years it will claim us all, and happy is the hope that we shall meet in Paradise beloved ones who have gone before us. "Those who live have duties to perform. 'You are gifted richly, and society claims the exercise of your mental and moral treasures. Go with me, my home shall be your home; and my heart shall feel for you- as a mother's. I know, dear Emily, how to feel for you, for Death touched with his cold fingers my own Amelia. The- dread tremor which shook my frame-the grief which wrung my heart-as the pale shadow passed over her pure white brow--I can never forget. I know, then, what you have felt; and, as tinie and immortal hope have soothed the poignancy of my anguish, so it will yours. My husband will love you as a daughter, my remaining children as a sister. I would not, if I could, check the natural flow of your feelings; for the heart would burst with grief like yours, if it could not give vent to its sorrows. It is well for memory to linger over the love and virtues of our friends who sleep in their tombs. "bAnd tears may soothe the -wounds they cannot heal." But we should not -indulge too long and excessively in grief, for thak which is past all remedy save in the goodness, the mercy, and the promises of Heaven. Go then with ma, and fold thy white arms within the embraces of one who will fondly cherish thee as a daughter and friend.' "What pride, what thoughts of past independence, - can--in want and sorrow-resist the offering of kind- ness, when decked with graceful gentleness such as played upon the face of that lovely lady? iEmily, through the tears which filled her eyes: -saw the guile- '        ) ,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      -41  less purity, and heavenly sincerity which lighted her     FL eyes, and fell like music from her lips. Theworld too!, coldly appreciates goodness like her's. It- is sweeter  and purer (when viewed in the light which heaven re-,  veals as the greatest of all the virtues) than the wild  honey of the wilderness to the taste of the starving wanderer. It touches the chords of sympathy, and' at-  tunes them to the harmony of that moral and intellect-   j ual dependence which binds man to man, and the    - creature to the Creator. Kindness is a sunbeam to the    ; heart which has been frozen by desertion or neglect,     vi that warms it to new life and vigor. It is the exact opposite of that social antagonism which leads first, to mutual indifference, and afterwards, to hate and mis-    : anthropy. It expels the moral poison, of the soul, and gives it health; and colors it with the rainbow tints of hope and love and good will to man. The world ap-  '  .i preciates it beneath its value, because it is unfeeling and cold. The heart that feels its rays is the symbol  of heaven; and he who practices it, deserves to be crowned with jewels and diamonds, richer than those which glitter in any earthly diadem. Oh,how repul-      , sOve is winter upon the human brow, and the ice whichh freezes the human soulI Kindnesg is the armor of  heaven's mercy; while. indifference to -the wants, the misfortunes, the sorrows of our race, however it may  be arrayed in wealth, which glitters in the sight of the  friendless, resembles the beautiful apples of the salt lake, which yield nothing butt extreme bitterness to  the-taste. Hate, war, human antagonism,: fllthe world  with groans and griefs. Kindness garlands Ithe rude^ hovels of poverty with flowers, and makes musi amidst cIB them sweeter than the. harp of  olAs;. The- lovely    :42       THLl, SOMERS; OR, Frinily was, in her new home, the object of the tender- -est affection.- Each succeeding day, new tokens of love drew her heart closer and closer to Mr. and Mrs. Manners.- She strove to hide the grief which preyed  upon her spirits, lest the friends whom she loved so much, might attribute it to discontent. Days and weeks passed off, and while Emily did not fear that she was regarded in the light of a tax upon the gene- rosity of Mr. M. and his family, still she pondered in her mind, how she might best'exert her abilities so as to relieve her, own feelings of all uneasiness on that account. Mr. Manners informed me that Emily had very deli- cately suggested to him her desire to obtain a situation,. a a teacher. He stated that, yielding to her wishes, he had made some effort to gratify them, but up to the period of leaving home he had- been unsuccessful, and that as soon as he returned, he would renew it. I left Mr. Manners impressed with the belief that I had never met with one possessed of a trustier or kinder heart. Y-ou may well imagine, Clinton, what were my emotions at this recital of Mr. Manners, and more especially, when in the course of conyersation, he spoke of the neglect to which :Emily had been subjected by some who had, in the days of her prosperity, sought her society. This I do not doubt, was an additional inducement to her to take some steps to procure that which the world gene- rally worships more than the God who- made it. Af-  fiiction and neglect were messengers from Emily, which, though -she was unaware of it, pierced my heart as if sent to it upon the wings of lightning. I resolved at once to make my arrangements to leave for NKew York within two weeks at:the farthest. An unfortu-   THE FATE OF THE ULNION-      48 nate accident, resulting from the fall of my horse, put me in a situation which, my physician assured me, would confine me to the house for at least a month.  In the meantime, the approaching marriage .of Miss -- -, who was the teacher-in our female academy,      i made it necessary that she should tender a resignation of her charge, to take effect on the first of the present-  month. I immediately sent for one of the leading trustees, and briefly stating to him the history of Miss Otway, warmly urged him to endeavor to engage her, services. A correspondence was immediately com- menced with Mr. Manners, to whom I privately wrote a confidential letter, in which I frankly divulged the feelings with which I had been-impressed by my brief acquaintance with Miss O. I further informed him that she was not aware of my attachment, and requested him not to afford her the least hint of it, lest motives  i of delicacy on her part, might prevent her accepting    ! the offer of the board of -trustees. The result was the acceptance of the offer. Mr. Manners, with that noble kindness which belongs to his nature, accompanied    - Miss Otway to her new home, and she is now boarding      in the family of the Rev. Mr. Chester, who lives within a few hundred yards of the academy, in which he reg-    : ularly ministers on each Sabbath day.- She now has     "7 charge of the school. A large proportion of her pupils also board with the family of the reverend gentleman to whom I have referred., She is pleasantly situated,   a for both he and his wife are bright examples of all  the Christian graces and virtues. My original purpose  was to reveal my love to Miss Otway and offer my   .  A hand as soon as I arrived in the village of M., but    X since the accident occurred of- which I have -spoken,-  :   bLMP      EThtakL SOMERS; OR, my views have undergone a change. I would leave her to choose, not, as is sometimes the case, between poverty or any passable offer of protection, but between independence and the sentiments of her heart. Here she will be surrounded by friends, and above the -pres- sure of dependence.' Under these circumstances, with prospects brightening before her, she will have no possible inducement to yield her hand without her heart. As much as I'love her, I do not want the first without the latter. Besidles, while engaged in the duties of her school, she will acquire a more distinctive firmness of character than she might otherwise possess. I am one of those, Clinton, who admire the self-posses- sion and spirit of those northern ladies, who, in the rosy bloom of girlhood, leave the homes of their early youth-their parents, brothers and sisters, it may be-- to fulfill some appropriate and useful destiny in far remote sections of the country. The South has not depended on herself as she should have done for teach. ers of her youth, and she has been and is greatly in- debted to -the North for those, both male and female, who have extended in her midst the triumphs of edu- cation, its public 'nd private blessings. While en- gaged in the duties of her school, and mitging in social intercourse among our people, my parents will see and duly appreciate Miss Otway's singular loveli- ness of character. Indeed, already -have- they felt its fascination. I listen daily to. her praises, and nowhere are theymore warm and cordial than in my own family ircle. Since Miss Otway's arrival, while I have paid her much respectful and delicate attention, I have not breathed to her a word or a sigh of love, nor shall I as yet, for reasons already intimated to you. Thus   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      45  have I briefly explained to you, as I' promised, the  circumstances connected with her removal to this sec- tion of the country."  - "Well," said Clinton," -you must confess that there' was a confounded sight of truth in what your cousin Ethel said about your agency in the matter. Youhave made a very convenient arrangement. However, if the case were carried into the Court of Love, I think you  would be acquitted of all improper artifice, as, accord- ing to your own showing, your captivity in the first   r place, inspired you with the burning desire to lay your traps for making a captive of your charmer." "But," said Lee, "you can see nothing wrong in what I have done?"  "No, nothing," said Clinton, "only you have refined a little upon gallantry. You have chosen your own ground for the assault. That, however, will  make but little difference, if you can conceal the strat-  agem from Miss Otway. Should you succeed in'win-  ning her, it will be a spice of romance to amuse you both as you pass hand in hand along the journey of  life." " ou and Clinton," said Charles Somers, as he approached them at this moment, "must certainly  have forgotten what Shakspeare says about brevity's being the soul ofwit. I think a glance-at the sun will satisfy you both that you must rein im your thoughts,  at least an expression of them, until a more convenient  season." "Oh, we are through," said LIee, "with the  subject which mostly engrossed our attention. I wished,  however, to touch a chordaor two of Clinton's symPa- thetic organism, but I can defer that until tobmorrow' o ' when I shall have the ^pleasure of 'joining you at i Woodlawn."       *   *    *  "Here, Mr. Clinton," said Col. Somers, when thei   .:   "       LoTUHEL SOMERS; OR, former was seated in the parlor, after his and Charles's return, " are two letters for you. I gave directions to -  my servant to ask if there were any letters to your  address, and these were brought with mine." Clinton X betrayed an expression of surprise as he received the  letters from the hand of Col. Somers. One he recog-  nized as the hand-writing of his father, and the other i as that of George Penland. Seeing that:the letter from i his father was forwarded from Louisville, he broke  open and read the letter of Penland, as follows:  "DEAR CLINTON: There must be something in the wind. I received, to-day,.a letter from your father.  It is dramatic and enigmatical;. expresses surprise to  learn that you were to meet a lady in Louisville, and still greater that you had gone farther south. He re-  quests me to forward this letter that you may receive it with the utmost dispatch. We certainly did not  suspect you of any trick, nor do we believe you have practiced one. Some scapegrace or villainous inter- meddler has been raising a goblin to frighten the old gentleman in some way about you. I am at a loss what to think, but his letter will speak for itself. Write me if you need my services, for I am with you. Take courage; you remember the saying, that the course of  true love never did run smooth, "Faithfully yours, GEORGE PENLAND." Clinton next read his father's letter, in which he charged him, on peril of his inexorable displeasure,  not to compromit himself by any professions of love, or promises of marriage, without first consulting him. The letter concluded with a startling.. request that, for    THE FATE OF THE UNION.-      47 reasons of the most urgent nature, he should return home by the speediest possible conveyance. Language is inadequate to describe Clinton's sensations after the perusal of his father's letter. He had never before received anything from him which had approximated, it in harshness and severity. He well knew that his temper was quick and often irritable, but-he felt that some mysterious influence must have been at work, to elicit such a communication as that which he had just perused. He succeeded, however, in maintaining a moderate degree of composure, which he was the better enabled to do as Ethel had left the drawing-room, and Col. Somers and Charles were engaged in looking over the papers which had been. received by the last mail. In order still more to recover his self-possession, he- received and glanced over a paper which was politely handed him by Col. Somers. After a short time spent in that way, Col. Somers- remarked, s'I have, Mr. Clinton, some business which will call me to our seat of government to-morrow, and would be pleased to have your company. We had no opportunity of showing it to you as we passed, and I should be happy to hate you make the acquaintance of some of our leading citizens there. I wish you not only to see our towns and country, but to become ac- quainted with our people." "I thank you," said Clin- ton, " for your kind invitation, and the proffer of your good offices to enable me to effect an object much desired by me, but I have received a letter from my father which will make it necessary for me to return  to New York without delay." Col. Somers and Charles expressed their regret at the same moment, and the former added, "I hope .that your return is not called   / "- ' ,-   48       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, for by anything of a- serious nature." "It is purely a matter of business, I presume, as my father does not state that-- any of the family are ill. Besides, you are  :already aware that I did not leave home with the in- tention of coming farther south than Louisville." Both repeated 'an expression of their deep regret at  the necessity for his immediate return, and the hope that he would visit them again in the fall, and make ! Woodlawn his home as long as his convenience would ! permit. Clinton was gratefulfor their kindness, and declared in the warmest terms, that a visit to the South would be utterly unsatisfactory to his feelings, without the pleasure which a visit to them would afford him. Expressing a desire to write a letter to his father, which would probably reach him before he could in person, Col. Somers invited him to his study, where he was left to privacy. , ^-  I CHAPTER' V.         I CLINTON'S object was more to have a few moments for reflection in private, than to write the letter. Hence, e after penning a few words to his father, he fell into a profound and solemn contemplation of the existing condition of affairs. His situation was one of exceed- ing perplexity. He had already avowed his love to Ethel, and his heart had been thrilled with a thousand fond and -tender hopes. Expecting to remain at Wood- lawn for a few days longer, he had had, up to the mo- ment of reading his father's letter, no special conversa-   THE FA TE OF THE UNION.     . 49 tion with Ethel upon the subject which was nearer than any other to his heart. That letter, as far as his father had any right to command him, forbade, at least, any further declaration of his passion. Each day and hour had clothed Ethel in his imagination, in new loveli- ness and charms. She was in his opinion, the perfection of beauty, and the beau ideal of a woman. He felt that a union with her would be the peculiar blessing of Heaven upon his destiny. To call her his, to fold her to his bosom, would complete, yea, far exceed the hap- piness which his young, pellucid dreams had pictured in the glowing future. Thus lovely, accomplished, moulded in beauty, enriched by every grace and virtue, it chilled his blood, even to the heart, to think of yield- ing her, perhaps, to another; could he, perchance, be so fortunate as to win her Jove. Looking from the win- dow, he saw the sun's last lingering rays resting upon the tree tops which crowned a neighboring eminence. ' There was no time to lose. The moment for decision had come. 'I will," said he to himself, ("risk all upon a cast of the die. My happiness depends upon a union with Ethel. I love her; she-is the idol of my affections. It fills my heart with anguish to think that she cannot be mine. Oh, heaven I it may be that she will not listen to the voice of my love. But I will declare it. This night will I whisper it more softly in her ear. She, and she alone, shall decide my fate." With this firm resolve, he left the study much more composed than when he entered it. "I have learned with regret from my father and Charles," said Ethel, as Clinton returned to the parlor,. i "that you will leave us to-morrow."  "Yes, Miss       Somers," said Clinton, with a low, sad tone of voice,                         q   50       'ETHEL SOMERS; OR.,  "circumstances beyond my control force me to go    i earlier than I anticipated. It is," continued he, "a sweet solace to know that you regret it. Would that your regret were the offspring of deeper feeling than the mere formality of courtesy, or even the warmth of friendship." He then solicited a brief private inter- view at some hour after tea, which Ethel kindly prom- ised to afford him. With characteristic frankness and filial confidence, Ethel had, a few days previously, 'while upon the boat, informed her mother of Clinton's declarations of love, and she had disclosed them to Colonel Somers. Both, for  reasons satisfactory to themselves, had cautioned Ethel to be discreet in interviews of that kind with Clinton, and by no means to give encouragement to his suit, even if inclined to do so by prepossession in his favor. I-ence, on several occasions, when he broached the delicate subject of his love, Ethel, with artful delicacy, introduced other topics of conversation. Clinton had taken no exception to this, attributing her conduct to I that native modesty which is at once the shield and armor of a true-hearted woman.. He had been even   i pleased with it; forher delicate blushes revealed none i of that spiritual frost-work which is at once chilling  and repulsive. No one more admired female modesty than he did. True modesty, like Ethel's, covers-the character with a beautiful vail. Like a delicate silvery light, it adds new charms to woman's beauty and worth. j Tempered with proper sensibility and feeling, it excites in the heart of an honest lover an invisible, but irre- sistible impulse-a subtle witchery and tenderness-  which is the essence of that eternal love which fills the soul with almost unearthly transport. In the same   TnE FATE OF TIE UNION.      61 frank and confiding spirit, Ethel whispered to her -mother Clinton's desire to have a personal interview with her. This being made known to Colonel Somers, he requested Mrs. Somers and Ethel to meet him for a few moments in his study. When seated there, Col. S., addressing Ethel, said: "I do not know, my daughter, what your feelings are towards our young and accom- plished guest. I know your candor, and now desire you, as your mother also does, to state them frankly to us. How are you inclined to meet his advances?" Before introducing Ethel, in propria personce, to answer her father's pointed inquiry, it is proper that we should make a brief explanation to the reader. Clinton was young, handsome, attractive in person and mind, and Ethel's heart had been free as the wings of the morn- ing. Yet she was a woman, and "love is a woman's  whole existence."  She was made to love, and made for man.  It would then have been a new problem in nature, if, with affections unengaged, and yet to be sought and won, she had been indifferent to the story of love whispered so fondly and sweetly in her ear, by   , one who was an Apollo in you;thful grace a"d man. hood. Having a moment, only, for this episode with the reader, we sum  it up in these few words. Her     I heart, before untouched, had. felt the softening influence of young love's dream.    Ethel, betraying a slight blush, replied: "In my  imagination, father, I have never pictured a more graceful and attractive gentle-, man than Mr. Clinton.  To  bland and captivating manners, he unites the highest intellectual charms, and all the virtues which adorn the man. If agreeable to you, my  dear mother, I would be pleased not to dis- . courage Mr. Clinton's suit, should he still urge it, at the interview which I have promised him."    52       tETHEL SOMERS; OR, Having uttered these words in a modest and falter- ing tone, Ethel remained silent, and her eyes were cast down. "My daughter," said Colonel Somers,    na- ture has made a parent's heart a' shrine of love. You and Charles are your mother's and father's jewels. You are hallowed in our hearts by a devotion which language would fail me to describe. I 'Would build for you, if in my power, an Eden of happiness. You know how I have loved my own state and section, while wrongs, insults, I had like to have said dis- honor, have been heaped upon them   by northern bigotry and injustice. Mr. Clinton, I believe, is all you have described him to be, but on the great ques- tion of the day-that which involves the political rights of my section, and the personal prosperity and the safety of my family, and the people of the South- he entertains opinions which I hold to be radically dangerous and wrong. I have how in my possession an anonymous letter, warning me that he is a member of an abolition society at the North. Believing him to be a man of truth, the writer of that letter, ia my opinion, does him an injustice. He has, in our con- versations, condemned the course and policy of the abolitionists in the strongest terms. But he thinks. the institution of slavery is a great moral, social, and i political evil, and should be abolished. This opinion he has candidly avowed to me on more than one oc- casion. Coming with me to be my guest, I did not press upon him to disclose his plan to get rid of the evil, but those who entertain that opinion, whether they live at the North or the South, will not be wanting in schemes, however wild and dangerous, to relieve the i country from what they esteem so foul a blot upon its . # .   THE FAE  OF THE UNION.      53 fair escutcheon. . Under these circumstances your con- nection with Mr. Clinton, should you reside at the North, would place you among those who are the ene- mies of the land of your birth--the enemies of the rights of the South-the enemies of your father's rights. But, my daughter, if your happiness demands the sacrifice it shall be made. I leave the decision with you and your mother." Mrs. Somers coincided in what Colonel Somers had said, and placed the whole matter at the disposal of Ethel, as her husband had done. "We now leave you," said they, "-to your own reflections. You may want some moments to ponder the subject alone." "But before you go,'-"said Ethel, "will you permit me, my dearly beloved parents, to ask you a single question." ' Certainly," replied both at once. "Deeply interested as you and we are, we would be pleased to have 'you ask not one alone, but as many questions as you please. Our object in com- ing here was to consult for your happiness, and it will conduce to our happiness to aid you by our parental counsel." "I am deeply grateful," said Ethel, "for your exceeding liberality in allowing me the exercise of my own free will in this interesting and important matter. If I should accept the hand of Mr. Clinton, will you still love me, and when parting at some-fu- ture day, would you give us both your parental bles- sing?"  "Sweet treasure of our hearts," replied her parents, "how could you doubt that we would love you still? Be assured whatever may betide you, that our hearts' best love will follow you through life, and until the grave shall claim us as its own. The bles- sing you ask for would be given, with our prayers for  s a higher and holier blessing than man 'or earth can t,   54       ETIIEL SOMERS; on,  give." Saying this they retired, after having both im-  printed a kiss upon Ethel's cheek. Night approached  and drew his dark curtains over the world. The   I evening was serene and balmy, and innumerable stellar i ,gems glittered through a pure and unclouded atmos- X i phere. "I believe," said Clinton to Ethel, as they stood by an open casement, "the stars are more in-  tensely bright than I ever saw them. They glow and  gaze as if anxious to commune with the whispering  voice of nature, which, at night, touch so gently the, chords of the soul, and lead it to pensive and tender  contemplations." "The night is exceedingly beauti-  ful," said Ethel; "but perhaps your spirits are some-  what softened by thoughts of your home to which  you have been unexpectedly called so soon. We are  often impatient when on the eve of returning to the  friends from whom we have been separated by time  and distance." "My feelings," observed Clinton, " are very different from what they were before your father  handed me the letters which I received this morning;  but you misapprehend them. My heart is softened, it  is true, but sad. Your generous condescension affords  me the opportunity to say what I have longed to de-  clare before, that neither home nor earth can charm  me in absence from you. I pray you permit me to  complete, what your gentle delicacy has hitherto pre-  vented, the offer, with unutterable devotion, of my  heart and hand. I would ask for no. higher, purer  bliss than to call you mine. I go to-morrow. May I  --dare Hhope to win from you a word and smile to - fill my soul with music, and light it with rapture, when  far absent from you? Speak, gentle, charming Miss Somers! Why the cloud of thought upon your pure,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      50 white brow? Why the strange meaning in your looks? Have I offended you? Think of the sacred, yea, the consuming fire of my love, and pardon me." "You have not offended me," said Ethel, in tones that seem- ed to come like notes of whispering music from her in- lmost soul. "I was thinking of my country." "Of your country!" exclaimed Clinton.  "Do explain      i yourself! What has your country to do with my love for you?" "For years," said Ethel, "I have  watched the varying features of my father's face, when pondering the dangers which impend like a storm of ruin over the fortunes of our southern land. Often has he unfolded truths so grand and solemn, that I shuddered while hanging in suspense upon his trustful  words. It is natural that an inexperienced and con- fiding daughter should catch the thoughts of a fond and tender father upon any subject, and believe with him. He has told me, often, that the union is endan-  gered; that the noble structure of our government is tottering to its base. The danger is internal. United,; - .- leagued in peace and holy brotherhood, the states of-. : our union could defy the world without. Torn, dis- tracted, discordant, they would paralyse each other's strength, and if not made the prey of external enemies, would drench the land in fraternal blood. This dread-   i ful feud, this dark malignity of impending fate, isA justly chargeable to our northern neighbors. Theyi have dug an almost impassable gulf between- the hearts, the faith, and the fortunes of the free and the  slave states, by assailing the rights of the latter, which undefended, would stain them with dishonor, and con- sign-them to political ruin. Could you assure me, Mr.  Clinton, were I to accept the-hand you have so gener.    56       E'THEL SOMERS; OR,          a ously offered me, that you, at least, will not wrong the beloved land of my birth?" Ethel's voice was low  and soft; but the heavenly hue of her bright blue eyes  assumed a darker dye, and revealed a holy patriotism  as she uttered this. Clinton for a few moments was speechless with amazement. A  bolt from. heaven, BIX streaming from the bright stars amidst terrific thun- ' ders, could not have surprised him more. Yet there was nothing repulsive in Ethel's look or tone. Her  I features beamed with the same gentle tenderness, and her voice warbled the same silvery melody, which had so often enchanted'him. He observed, only, an almost  imperceptible flush of the cheek. With that slight ex- / ception, he saw no excitement, but for the first time,  he felt the full force of her intellect and character.  Beautiful, graceful, winning in mien and feature, firm i in devotion to- the sky, the land, the people of her  birthplace, an artist would- have desired no fitter model for the statue of a true southern maiden-one, 1 who in beauty, gentleness and strength of character, could truly represent her sex in the land of the sunny  south. As soon as his composure was in a measure re-  stored, Clinton, in reply to Ethel's touching inquiry, ob- served: "Your remarks and your question, Miss Somers, have both taken me by surprise. My- heart tells  me that, for your sake, I would not willingly wrong the land of your birth. I could not prove so faithless  to you and to my own honor, as to profess that which  I cannot believe and feel. I have been taught that  slavery is an evil-a wrong to a portion of our fellow  beings, and an injury to the section in which it exists.  The slave states have rights under the constitution,  which I shall not only admit, but willingly defend.    THE FATE OF THE UNION.      57' Stills I believe that duty requires of me and of my people and your people, to prevent its further exten-1 sion. Its final extinction would add to the peace, the  prosperity, and the glory of the whole country." "That, Mr. Clinton," said Ethel, " is the language of your people. We in the South entertain a different sentiment. As equals, we claim the right to thinkl and decide for ourselves. We cannot consent that the people of the North shall substitute their opinions and  judgements for ours. We claim equally with them to extend our institutions into neaw lands and territories-- the common property, of both-subject to such res- trictions only, as may be imposed by the people in the formation of new states." "I see, Miss Somers," said Clinton, " that you have not been inattentive to the political questions of the dav. But whiled we may differ in. reference to the one immediately the subject  of consideration, should that difference interpose ob-  stacles in matters of the heart?" "I know but little, Mr. Clinton," replied Ethel, "of politics, and what I do know, I have learned mostly from my father's lips. He has alluded so often and so feelingly to certain   i questions, that they have become familiar as house- hold words. I have referred to one because it is in- timately connected with a subject which you have (complimenting me so highly) pressed upon my atten-  tion." "In choosing a partner for life, Miss Somers, I understand you to intimate that you would object to    one who is opposed to the institution of slavery."  "You have," said Ethel, "misapprehended me. I should not insist that he should be an advocate of the - I institution, but that he should simply abstain from the  commission of wrongs against those who favor it. Heo 3*      *'   58       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, should .yield to them their constitutional rights, and interpose no obstacles to their peaceful enjoyment. It would be to me a constantly painful contemplation to know that the man to whom I looked for the highest  earthly happiness, was the enemy of my father's and my people's rights." Clinton, who was by nature, - liberal and tolerant, felt the force of Ethel's objection,  and secretly admired her character more than at any  previous period of his acquaintance with her. "I desire, Miss Somers," said he, " to ask you a question, and in order to relieve your delicacy as much as pos- i sible in answering it, I would preface it with a sincere  declaration, that I love you with more devotion than  ever. Were the difficulty which you have interposed removed, could I hope for acceptance?"  At this question Ethel blushed, and was silent. Clinton then, with great fervor of manner, continued:' "Will you, Miss Somers, promise me this, that when I am gone-when time and distance shall have separ- ated us--you will wait upon my reflections, and allow  me time to investigate fully the great question which has so suddenly intruded itself to disturb the fondest hopes of my life? I ask this, because I would sacrifice  everything for you but rmy self-respect and honor." "I- will," said Ethel, in: a sweet, tremulous tone of  voice. "Then," said Clinton, as he took her hand in his, and pressed it with his lips, "you shall hear from  me, if not before, when I shall have fulfilled a purpose  which I have this moment resolved upon. The sum- mer and fall may pass away before its completion.  Till then, I shall depend upon your plighted word; and I ask you now to remember during the interven-  ing time, when, by day or night, you may think, per.                 .[   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       59 chance, of me, that true love guided my footsteps here, and will keep my lingering, throbbing heart behind in chains." The hour for departure having arrived, on the following morning, Clinton, with a heavy heart,  grasped the hands of the dear friends, to whom he felt attached by sympathies stronger than the common ties of friendship. His farewell words were uttered with] a pathos which found its origin in the deep recesses   ' 1 of his heart. Kind words and good wishes were soon exchanged; renewed invitations were given on both  sides to visit their respective sections, and -renewed expressions of the pleasure which it would afford each to do so were interchanged, and Clinton was soon seated in the carriage, with Colonel Somers and Charles. As they were starting off, he took a hurried glance at the gardens and groves of Woodlawn, over which a genial April sun shed its bright and lambent rays. His manly heart was full; the more so as, when part- ing with Ethel, he saw a tear trembling in her eye,     i and that her face was pale. Colonel Somers, having urged: the driver to make good speed, observed, "I desire you, Mr. Clinton, to form acquaintance with at least a few of my most particular friends in Jackson." When they reached the city, Col- onel Somers observed, "What little time you have to    - remain here, Mr. Clinton, must be spent with Charles, a few friends, and myself. I shall have ample time to attend to my business after -you shall have left." "I I am altogether at your service," replied Clinton. Colonel Somers' object was to exhibit southern character to Clinton, for he hoped, by that means to dispel illu-  .   sions, such as he fancied had taken 'possession of his mind, unfavorable to the people of the South; and he I'            '1   60       ETHEL SOMERS; OR,         X was fully successful in his wishes, for Clinton expressed X to him the pleasure he had experienced in the society ; of those with whom he had had intercourse during the 1 brief time-between his arrival at, and departure from, X the seat of government.              i "Farewell," said Colonel Somers and Charles, as the - bell gave notice that the cars were about to move. i "We shall always be glad to see you." "Farewell,"  replied Clinton. "I shall never forget your refined  hospitality and kindness;" and away the steam-winged ( horse bore him onward, swift as the wind, towards the : Father of Waters, upon whose noble bosom he had been borne a few days previous. CHAPTER    VI.  ALTHOUGH not the speediest route for New York,  Clinton, for reasons- of. his own, desired to return by way of Louisville. As nothing of interest occurred  during the passage, we shall introduce him next to the reader, seated in the drawing-room of the mansion of . it George Penland.                  i 'By heaven, Clinton," said Penland; "you look worsted by your trip below. Badly treated by the old  fire-eater, or his pretty daughter, or both?" "Not at all, iX Penland," replied Clinton. 'If I had been- a prince I could not have met a more cordial reception, or fared more sumptuously.  You speak of Colonel Somers  as a fire-eater. I had read and heard of them before,  and really supposed them to be something between finen and devils-beings of prey and rapine-who ,'.      '-*    THE FATE OF THE 'UNION- 6-1 would mortgage, sell, or eat the heart's blood of their slaves-but, above all, of abolitionists, if they could get them in their power. Why, Penland, Colonel Somers, is as gentle as any Christian on the road to heaven. Charles is just like him. Mrs. Somers is an angel of a woman, and Ethel is just like her mother, only a little more so. How, in the name of the Apostle Peter, were these people so misrepresented!" "Ahl you know," said Penland, "that politics is something of a trade. The people of the South hgve been divided among them- selves. Some of our leaders were timid; some of them wanted power and place, and they made scare-crows for the people; and others really feared that war, pestilence, and famine were about to swallow up peace, prosperity, and plenty. I always knew better, and so did many others; but the tide was against the fire- eaters, and the policy was to place them about half out  of the Union and civilization at the same time. Inj my opinion, they were nearer right than wrong; and time will show it, to the satisfaction of all honest men, at least at the South." "George," said Mrs. Penland, is so fond of talking politics, that I sometimes fear he loves it better than he does me. Do let that alone for the present, and tell me all about Ethel. You left us  a to follow her, nowtell us the result." "Well,'truly, my fair cousin," said Clinton, "love, and politics are so intimately connected, that I am at a loss to know how to separate them." "Ha! haI ha! just as I expected," said Penland, laughing outright. "I told you, Julia, the day Edward left," said he to his wife, "I would bet my horse Kentucky against your new bonnet that politics would come up before the marriage." "Well,  cousin Edward," said Mrs. P., "was George right?"    62       ETHEL SOMERS; Ol, "To be candid," said-Clinton, "I must avow that he wags not far wrong." *"Ia! ha! go on," said Penland; "Ieta us hear what the old fire-eater said." "Well, I do declare," said Mrs. P., "men will sometimes almost act like brutes. Did the old fellow," continued she, "really require -you to avow your politics when you asked for Ethel?  "No," said Clinton, in reply, "he did not; but Ethel did." "The d--l, you say!" said Penland, stretching his eyes, and lookiDg wild with surprise. Mrs. P. laughed in her turn; but she, too, was so taken by surprise, that her laugh exhibited more of curiosity than merriment. By this time, Clin- ton was so involved that he saw no way of relief but in a full confession, and he proceeded to relate all that occurred at Woodlawn. "Well, I swear," said Penland, when he had conclud- ed, "Ethel is the greatest as well as the sweetest girl in the South. Mind," said he to his wife, "I say girl, and of,course I refer to those who are unmarried." "Oh, you need not be so particular, George!" said Mrs., P., "I am not as jealous of your praise, as you might lead Edward to suppose. But," continued she, "it was certainly a strange fancy in her to take such a turn as that." "I am not surprised to hear you say that," ob- served Penland, "for I picked you up at the North, and although we have been married now nearly two years, and I have been lecturing you the whole time, you are not yet wholly divested of some of your pecu- liar northern fancies." "Well," said Mrs. P., " if you did pick me up at the North, you proposed to do it of your own accord. I partly accepted you, because I feared the consequences of rejecting you." "I be- lieve," said Penland, "I did hint something about the   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      68 Hudson, in case you should say No; and I am as glad now, as I was then, that'you said Yes, as you intended to do from the first. But," continued he, " we must not wander too far from the original subject. You have yet, Clinton, to meet the old gentleman at home. My case and Julia's wasn't a circumstance to yours. I am afraid that between Uncle Rufus and Ethel, you will encounter an impassable gulf. Your recall was sud  - den. It is evident that a lady was the cause. That seems to have provoked the diplomatic note of your father; but have you any inkling of- how he learned so speedily that (whether by legerdemain or by acci- dent) you had become entangled in the witcheries of a pair of pretty eyes, and a profusion of silky ring- lets?"No," said Clinton; "it is a mystery. The in- - termeddler is profoundly visored. Know you aught, Penland, that can afford a clue to unmask him?" 'Nothing," replied he. "I would willingly pay a handsome reward to any one who could bringthe lurk- ing and malicious intermeddler to light. Some one who knew you and was cognizant of your actions here, may have left for New York about the time you did for Mississippi, and from him your father may have learned the facts; or, it may be, he was written to. If that should prove to be the case, and you can see the letter, it may lead to the discovery of the writer. It may be that a gross and foul distortion of facts have created in your father's mind an uneasiness which it will not be difficult to remove. But, while Hwould not discourage you, clouds hang upon your pathway. It is well to look dangers in -the face. There is a wide difference between Ethel's opinions and your own; and particularly between her's and your father's. Still Y   B64      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, their seems to be a confluence of her sympathies and yours in the tenderer sentiments of the heart. That is an important point gained. You are somewhat afloat at random; ,but still there is nothing algid in Ethel's feelings towards you. Love inclines her to you, while patriotism makes her hesitate. The latter should .ele- vate her in your esteem, while the former may prove a charm to free you from the political ablepsy which afflicts not only you, but the great mass of your people. I have some hope of you as you have asked for time. That shadows out, faintly, a prospect of a change of sentiment in your mind, on the Igreat question which disturbs the peace of our once happy confederacy of states. I have, heretofore, referred to differences of opinion between myself and some of the fire-eaters of the South. They believe that the North hates the South, and has no affection for, and good will towards her. I think otherwise. The hearts of the two sections are together, as a great people, who worship in the same temple of freedom. Both love their forms of govern- ment--both venerate their gallant and noble ancestors. Brothers, relatives and friends-all northern men-are separated by fortune or chance. Some remain at the North, while some live at the'South-the home of their adoption.  These love each other. Their hearts are kept together by the ties of consanguinity; yet they differ on the great question at issue. I have known northern men who are as true to the South as the na- tive born children of her soil. The people north and ,south, love each other, because they have a common fame in the blended glories of the fathers of the re- public, and a common interest in its perpetuity. And yet, Clinton, because of an institution ordained of -ye        ano       rando   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      65 heaven-established in every land and every age upon which history has revealed its instructive light--we have become almost aliens to each other, and our glo- rious Union totters to its foundations." "It is grow- ing late," said Clinton, " and early to-morrow morning I must leave you; we cannot argue this question now. I will visit you again, and then we can discuss it in all of its bearings. It is my wish to study and decide it for myself in forp conscientice. Truth shall be the polar star to guide me; wherever that may lead, will I go, though it may estrange me from the land of my birth, or confirm me in sentiments which may dig the impas- sable gulf to which you referred a few moments since." "Bear this, then, in mind," said Penland; "that in human society there must be the rich and poor-that human servitude, in some form, is inseparable from that condition of things. If this postulate be ad- mitted to be true, you will have to choose between the servitude of the black or white-between the menial dependence of the African or Caucasian." "Well, I do think, George," said Mrs. Penland, "it is time to let cousin Edward off of this subject about Africans and Caucasians-the North and the South. People will have their opinions; they can't all think alike." "That, Julia, is very true," replied Penland; but people must look   closely to their opinions, when they threaten such destructive conse- quences. I should not, however, have pressed this subject upon Edward's attention now, but for his own averment that he wished to investigate it. A lady's word, at his own request, has been pledged upon his promise to do so; and as two hearts are deeply inter- ested in the result, the sooner he begins it the better."   "      ]ETHEL SOMERSS; OR, Clinton left the next day for New York. As the reader would be uninterested in anything which trans- pired on the way, we will transport him at once to that city, and to a splendid residence on street-one of the most fashionable portions of that commercial metropolis. He was met at the door by an elderly gentleman, somewhat turned of sixty, tall in person- and of muscular frame. His face was striking, and had evidently possessed an uncommon degree of manly beauty. His large, fine eyes, piercingly black, emitted still the fire of his'earlier life; and his expansive brow, slightly aquiline nose, and firmly compressed lips, im- pressed the beholder with as high opinion of his intel-  lectual endowments and firmness of character. His hair was gray, and though thin in-front, was arranged with scrupulous care. He wore a suit of black, and held in his left hand a commercial paper and a pair of gold spectacles. This fine-looking old gentleman was Rufus Clinton, the father of Edward. The meeting of the father and son was mutually and warmly affec- tionate.  "I am glad to see you, my son," said he. "I did some violence to my feelings in writing so harsh a let- :ter to you; but I was irritated, 'by an anonymous let. ter which I had-received, and I feared that something might occur which would interfere with an object near and dear to my heart. But," said he, "here comes your mother, who has been so anxious on your ac-- count. Greet her, and then I will have a private in.  terview-with you." The meeting between Clinton and his mother was tender, as he loved her with all the fondness of- a son, who -had received.- from her the most endearing and-   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       67 devoted love from his earliest recollection. After some time passed in conversation with both his parents, his father requested him to accompany him to a room  which he used as-a library, and in which he attended. to most of -his private correspondence. When they were seated, his father observed: "Since you left home, my son, I have received the intelligence of the loss of a ship, which has reduced'me nearly to ruin. A series of adverse speculations had previously subjected me to heavy losses; but the re- cent disaster has pressed upon me with a crushing weight. The public, as yet, are not aware of my con- dition. I have looked closely into my affairs, and find that without some early resources, I shall become, if not a bankrupt, reduced to comparative poverty. Your mother is aware of my condition, and unites 2 with me in a wish, which I will presently explain to v you. The day after I received intelligence of my late misfortune, I received this letter, which I wish you to read, and which caused me to enclose the one to Mr. Penland; the reception of which you acknowledged in your letter from Mississippi."  Clinton eagerly grasped the letter, and read it as follows: "RUFUS CLINTON, EsQ., -New York: "Dear Sair: I accidentally learned yesternight, that your son Edward would take- a boat to-morrow for * Mississippi. A conversation occurredin my presence at   Hotel, between Mr. Charles Somers, and two other gentlemen, in which the former stated that your son would I accompany his father's family to their home in that state. ;When young Somers retired, one of the  ,                         y   68  -     ilEL SOMERS; OR, gentlemen observed, 'Clinton is attracted to Missis- sippi by Miss Somers, with whom he became acquaint- ed the past summer, at Saratoga. I was there myself, and never saw an instance of more complete devotion.' This, and other remarks, satisfied me that your son was in love with this girl. I know her father. He is the most violent fire-eater in all the region of slaverydom. He hates the people of the North as he does the devil. Slavery, in his opinion, is the great desideratum--the chief good of life. His place, or plantation as- it is called, is a hell upon earth. Knowing your views in reference to that institution, I have felt it to be my duty to inform you of these facts, and to warn you in time of the danger to which your son is exposed. They have invited him to Mississippi for the purpose of entrapping him; and it would not surprise me were he to marry the girl before his return home. I do not sign my name to this letter, but you may be assured that the statements I have made are true. "Respectfully yours, &c." Clinton had never- before seen any handwriting which resembled that of the letter which he had just read.  It was a fair hand, and the communication was evidently'made with a deliberate aim. He was per- plexed in conjecturing, even; by whose agency and for what purpose it was done. He  felt the truth of the conclusion arrived at by the writer, that he loved the fair maiden of the South; and between the indignation excited by his officious and, perhaps, malignant intru- sion, and the keen gaze of his father while he read the :letter, his faie kindled into a glow. While in this state of feeling, and before he could utter a word, his   THE FATE OF THE 'UNION.      69 father addressed him thus: "That letter, my son, under ordinary circumstance, would have excited my deep concern; but situated as I then was, it filled my heart with indescribable dread. I have, for months, in pondering your future prosperity and happiness, desired your union with lMary Raymond, the rich and beautiful daughter of my old friend and former copart- ner in business. She, as you know, is his only child, as you are mine. I have known -her from her birth. She inherits her father's and her mother's virtues. In all the range of my acquaintance, from my youth up, I have never seen a creature of more queenly grace, or more consummate virtue, and good sense. Since her father's death, now more than a year ago,her character and good qualities have excited the admira- tion of all who knew her. To her mother, she is a treasure above all price. Though deeply wouhded in heart at the death of a father whom she so fondly loved, she has striven to hide her own sorrows, that she might be more successful in relieving the pressure of her mother's. Thus, she is intrinsically an object worthy of any man's devotion. But to this heavenly excellence of character, is added that which the world esteems no slight recommendation-a fortune valued at little less than a quarter of a million.  You are young, prepossessing in person and manners, and deemed an heir of extensive fortune. The intimacy of our families-everything conspires to favor your success in seeking her hand. I am getting advanced in life. Misfortune adds to the pressure of years; its cruel shaft is quivering in my heart. You can extract it--sustain, and save me. Will you, Edward, for your father's sake and your mother's happiness, make at   VETHEL SOMERS; OR, least the-effort. There is but little time to lose. I can conceal the real state of my affairs for a few months, and within that time you can turn this winter of my trouble into the gladsome summer of renewed prosperity. My plans are so arranged, that with the aid of less than a fourth of her extensive means, with- out loss to you, the world will never know that there had been a ripple in the smooth stream of my affairs." The eldeB Clinton uttered this in a tone so pathetic, and with a bearing so gentle and confiding, that it touched every chord of Edward's soul. He loved his father, not alone because of the ties of blood, but for a thousand acts of kindness. The thousand strings of his heart could vibrate at a thought of his mother, whose songs had so often sweetly soothed his infancy to rest, and whose love had been a shield to protect and bless him, from his birth to the hour of which we - write. A glanee at-his father-his hair whitened by the frosts of time, his brow sorely troubled with care, his venerated form bending under the weight of adversity--subdued him to tears. Having, in some measure, recovered his composure, he said, "You know,' my father, that I would submit to any sacrifice :to release you from the fetters which misfortune has thrown -around you.  My situation, like yours, is one of peculiar difficulty. Give me a little time for consultation with my mother, and for reflection, and I will then be better prepared to reply to your question than I am at present." "Certainly,my son," said his father. "Your happiness, as well as my own, is in. volved in the proposition which I make,: and I am not so selfish as to wish you to blight four own, even to save me from ruin.." Edward sought his mother, and,   A XI. XLA I MJ VAL'. AlJ&A  LJ. & X. JLWe S JJ revealed to her all that had happened, from his first acquaintance with Ethel Somers to his return home from Mississippi. "But for your father's situation, lmy- son," said she, when he had concluded his story, "I would yield my objections to your union with Miss Somers, could the difficulties which exist between you be honorably and satisfactorily reconciled. It might be, however, that after you should have fully examined the subject, your convictions of the wrongs of slavery would be firmer than ever. On that point, it would be well for you to consult with your father. It is a question which he has deeply studied, and his counsel, is worthy of your highest respect and consideration. You know my views.   Slavery is an institution found- ed in the greatest injustice and wrong. It is contrary to the spirit of our republican form of government. It is a black spot upon our national character, and the sooner it is removed the better it will be for the fame of our country." Clinton followed his mother's advice, and on the following day made to his father the same- statement which he had, on the previous day, made to his mother. His father listened to him with patient composure; and at the conclusion of his remarks, observed: "Many, my son, when advanced in life, are apt to forget that they once were young. Youth is the time of impulse. Then the heart is more generous and liberal than it is after- it has been hardened by the long: struggles of life. Your feelings towards Miss Somers are in accordance with the laws of nature. She impressed you by her charms. I remember her well; she is extremely beau- tiful. I was pleased with her bearing and character. Your attentions to her did not excite my special notice   72       ETHElL SOMERS; OR, at the time, but since the revelation of your feelings) and affections for her, I am astonished that they did not. I 'attributed them, the last summer, to the gallantries of youth; and, indeed, I was pleased to see them, be- cause they are due to our fair countrywomen of the South who visit us. The North and the South, bound together by political, should not be wanting in the ex- hibition of social ties. But for slavery, we should be as one people. That divides us. It cannot be other- wise. The South considers it a good;. we view it as an evil. The South think it right; we believe it to be a wrong. In my opinion it is a wrong; a dark, deep, disgraceful wrong. The greatest of Southern states- men, the author of our Declaration of Independence, said, in that noblje instrument of which he was the author, 'We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created- equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi- ness.' r The Declaration of our Independence, in which this sentiment is embodied, was signed by the repre- sentatives of every slaveholding State in the-Con- gress which proclaimed it to the world. They gave it their sanction under circumstances the most thrilling and solemn, when appealing to the world and to their God, to witness the rectitude of their intentions. God, my son, has made the faces of a portion of his creatures white, others red, and others black; but whence does the white-skinned. man derive the right to seize upon the black, and subject his neck to the ignominious yoke of slavery?   Justice revolts at the act as a crime. Nature cries aloud against it. The birth-right of equal- ity is trampled beneath the feet of the oppressor. The   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      78 inalienable right of the African to personal liberty; to the free use of his limbs, his faculties, and his will; to pursue happiness in his own way and according to his own judgement, however benighted it may be; is disre- garded, outraged and destroyed by the iniquitous insti- tution of slavery. He would be free, but might- blood-thirsty and inhuman--makes him a slave. He would toil for his own good, but the avarice of his oppressor forces him to task his muscles for a bare subsistence. He would live with his wife and his chil- dren, but often they are torn asunder, loaded with chains, and compelled to linger out their lives in a mis- erable captivity, where they can see each other no more upon earth. While their hearts bleed inwardly at this cruel fate, the lash of the master draws the red current from their backs and limbs, to urge them to almost -deathly exertion for their inhuman gain. Can you, Edward, sanction this monstrous iniquity? Can you, for any purpose, yield your opposition to its ex- tension over a land which professes to be consecrated to freedom. No, my son, ybu cannot-will not. The spirit of true liberty exists too pure, too holy, in your bosom, to become corrupted by this deadly social upas of the South." Edward urged nothing against these opinions and . positions of his father, for, in truth, they were his own. It is true he saw nothing to confirm them in their most hideous features, on the only plantation which he had visited in the South. But he imagined that slavery was seen there in its most favorable light. While Colonel Somers was kind to his slaves, because he was by nature benevolent and humane;, other masters, he readily sup- posed, were avaricious and cruel. Still, even on his -4"         *   A,   74       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, plantation, he believed the great principles of equality and right were as essentially violated, as upon that of the master who disregarded the laws of humanity. During this interview with his father, he stated that he had anxiously and solemnly considered his wishes, as expressed the day before, but still he-desired to be ex- cused from giving a final answer until his return from a visit to an aunt who lived in the country, some miles from the city. Mrs. Howard, the aunt alluded to, was his father's sister. Her residence was at one time a country seat of his father's, and there he had spent many of the happiest hours of his early youth. He had promised to spend -a week with her soon after his return from Louisville. To this his father acceded, and after an hour's ride in the afternoon, he reached "The Cottage," (that was the name of the place,) and was received by his aunt with the affectionate warmth which had always characterized her feelings towards him. CHAPTERE VII. "EDWARD," said Mrs. Howard, in the course of the evening, "I have experienced many unhappy sensa- tions to-day." "Why, my dear aunt," said he; "has anything occurred to disturb your usual tranquillity of ' mind?"  "Oh, nothing," she replied, with a forced J  smile, "which ought to disturb me. You know I have occasionally been depressed in spirits since my hus- band's death. I was excessively so for nearly a year ,    THE FATE OF THE UNION.      75 after that sad event; but I have become much more reconciled to it. In a few years, at most, I shall be with him in Heaven. It pleased the Lord to take him, and I have struggled hard to submit to his inscrutable will. The-source'of my uneasiness to-day was a dream I had last night about your father. It seemed to me that I saw him in deep distress. Instead of its usual calm and pleasing composure, his face seemed clouded with care. His eye, generally so bright, looked dim, and exhibited a fixed, thoughtful and despondent-ex- pression. I was so much affected by the sight, that it awoke me, and I felt much relieved to know that it was only a dream. Still, it haunted me for the balance of the night, and but for your message, which I received early in the morning, I should have gone, or sent to the-city to inquire after him and his family." Clinton remained silent and. thoughtful for a few moments, and then observed, "My dear aunt, I could rely upon you to. keep an important secret hidden in your heart." "Surely you could, Edward. Your remark alarms me; do tell me all." "There is more reason," said he, "for you to feel uneasy about my father than you may imagine." "Oh, Edward," anxiously exclaimed Mrs. H., " tell me all--everything. I am so nervous that it will be a relief to know the truth at once." "I beg you, my dear aunt," said Clinton, "to be more com- posed. The matter is a serious one, but it has reference, so far as he is concerned, mainly to a loss of property." Clinton then explained all to Mrs. H., including his father's wishes in reference to himself and Miss Ray- mond. Mrs. Howard was a lady of very warm affections. She loved her, brother with a true sister's love, but-at -.    76       '1'THEL SOMERS; OR, the same time she deeply sympathized with her nephew. "Edward," said she, "it is the lot of man to suffer evils in his brief existence here. Your father is a man of lofty pride. Heretofore, fortune has smiled uponai him. - It is dlifficult for him to yield to the stroke of adversity, not so much because he is incapable of meet- ing-it with a philosophic spirit on his own- account, as his dread to experience the indifference of the world. He knows its coldness and unsympathizing spirit to- wards the unfortunate. He has seen it. exhibited in the cases of others, and has no reason to believe that he will be an exception'to the rule. I deeply lament his misfortunes, and would relieve them if I could. That, however, with my limited means, is impossible. His proposal to you is natural. It is the way of the world. What he has said of Miss Raymond is true. No one knows her better than I do. She is a perfect jewel; a paradigm of virtue and beauty; and if you could gratify him in this time of trouble, I should be pleased more than I can express in words. It might be difficult for you to overcome your scruples on the question of-slavery. I do not see how you can. I think as your father does on that subject. Situated as you are, it is your right to decide the question as it exists between you and Miss Somers. However your heart might be torn by it, your honor would remain untarnished were you to inform her, that after the maturest investigation of the subject, candor compels, you to adhere to your opinions. You might accom- pany that declaration with a renewal of the offer you 'have made her, and abide the consequences. Apropos to the subject, I have to inform you that Miss Raymond- promised me when last in the city- that- she would   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       " come and spend a few days with me, and I have re- ceived a message from her that she will be here too morrow. Have you seen her since your-return?" "I have not," replied Clinton.- "I have been so agitated by the peculiarity of my condition, and a knowledge of my father's troubles, since I reached home, that I have not been in society at all." These and other matters of exceeding interest en- gaged the attention of Edward and his aunt until a late hour of the night, when they separated for rest. In vain did Clinton invoke to his aid, "Tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep." Long was he agitated by conflicting thoughts, "And rosy dreams, and slumbers light," were strangers to his couch. His noble nature was exempt from every selfish feeling. For his father's sake he felt at times that he could resign the morning- star of his love. But when he thought of Ethel Sorm- ers-of the pallid hue that stole upon her lovely cheek--the tear that trembled in her bright blue eye, as he pressed her soft white hand in parting-his heart quivered as though a shaft of death had pierced it. He felt that he could yield her on his own account; but the thought, yea, the firm conviction, that it would rend her tender spirit, was a thorn of grief that pained his inmost soul. Still, she had interposed, of her own accord, a barrier, which, like a frozen moun- tain, reared its icy battlements to prevent their union. He soliloquized thus: "Oh, Slavery, how I hates theel yet, Ethel, a transient hour in thy presence, is an age   78       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, of happiness I But my father-he, to whom I owe ex- istence-he, who from the hour of my birth, has loved and cherished me-what do I not owe him? "Misfortune, like a blast of ruin, at this moment assails his venerated form. He reels before it. I may--perhaps can-free him   from its fury. Oh, heaven direct me how to act! I must, I'will pro- tect him if I can. His arm is weak; mine he im- agines to be strong. I will stretch it out to prop him in his declining years." His resolve was firm. Nature, weak and human, yielded; and sleep, at last, sprinkled upon his eyelids its composing dews. Wrapped in troubled slumber, he dreamed of the sunny southern land. Over a mossy rock, which rest- ed upon the bank of an amber-colored streamlet, a light and trellised frame-work had been erected, round which the multiflora, the jessamine, and woodbine mingled their flowery hues and sweets. Within this rural bower was seated a southern maiden, whose face was as white as the water lilies which she had plant- ed with her own fair hand upon the edges of an artifi- cial pool, adjoining this beautiful and sweetly-scented spot. It was his beloved Ethel. She seemed absorbed in a death-like trance. Her face was less earthly in its expression; more spiritual,more heavenly, than he had ever seen it. It was near the hour of noon. On the opposite side of the brook spread out over several acres a park of noble forest trees, beneath the'green luxuri- ance of whose spreading branches sunbeams shed their golden spangles of dancing light. The air was still. It sang not its holy anthem within the arching foliage of this grand, but beautiful cathedral of nature. Still, faint, mysterigns sounds floated over the place and i   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       79 scene, like gentle whispers of wandering spirits. Soon, a beautiful being-of feminine figure-half human and- half spiritual, bit perfect in its graceful outlines, ap- proached the vine-wreathed bower in which Ethel sat like a gentle, thoughtful Naiad of the stream. Her eyes were like the light of stars when seen in an eclipse. Her face was radiant with supernal light. Ethel experienced an indescribable sensation of fear and awe, when first she beheld it. "Be not frighten- ed," said this beautiful apparition. "I am your friend, and the friend of your country. For thousands of years I have wandered upon earth. I saw the sun as it arose and sat upon the rise, the progress, and the fall of all the governments and kingdoms of the world which now lie buried in the oblivious past. I have watched the rise and progress of others, which now exist, and whose great hearts yet palpitate writh life. I have not come to unfold to you, beautiful lady I the course of empire, or to weary you with a flight upon the never-tiring wings of time. I know the secrets of your heart. Your love is connected with the destiny of your country. Its results will foreshadow its fate. It has been placed by you on the pivot on which it turns. .My love for your country has caused me to assume this form, that I might more effectively hold communion with you. I admire your spirit, your judgement, and your decision. True liberty has never before found a temple in which to worship, so grand and so sacred, as that which your ancestors have erected in this land of the occident. I have no power to divine the result of your love, or the experiment of government which your people are naking. But I have examined the secret springs of all the govern- 4   80     :  ETHEL SOMERS; OR, ments of the earth," from the times of the patriarchs, to the hour in which I am communing with you. I have seen society in all of its phases during the waste of the past. My judgementis vain, if the civilization of the South is not the desideratum in human association. It is not only the best that ever shed its light upon the world; but it is essential to preserve the purity, and maintain the perennity of the American Union. Hold fast to your faith I Be true to your resolve. It may brealr the strings of your heart; but whatis its anguish, when weighed in the scales of duty I Kneel, then, at the altar of duty, though pain, torture, and death, may be your reward. The price of failure will be the for- feiture of honor and the sacrifice of freedom. Be true, be firm, even unto death, and a crown of immortality shall be thine! At the conclusion of these words, which died away in soft and bewitching murmurs, the lovely apparition seemed to recede like floating and dissolving gossamer, growing fainter and fainter, until it was seen no more. 'At this moment Clinton awoke, and was surprised to see the bright beams of the sun pouring their morn- ing light into his room. He became conscious at once, from his burning thirst and throbbing temples, that he was experiencing the excitement of fever; and soon perceived, from an effort to arise, that he was too un- well to leave his room. When his aunt became, aware of his situation, she proposed to send immediately for a physician. "g o, my dear aunt," said he; " wait at least a while. It is the effect of a sleepless night, and will soon pass off." Since his return to iNJew York, he had experienced   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      81 a continuous excitement-yea, agony of spirit, which was more than his constitution could bear. His dream made a deep impression upon his mind; not so much because of the appearance of the apparition, as that of Ethel. He was startled by the pallor of her cheek; and her altered and melancholy looks, were constantly present in his imagination. Attributing the whole to his fevered brain, he endeavored as much as possible to banish it from his thoughts. During the morning, his aunt informed him that Miss Raymond had arrived. "I would be glad," said she, "-for you to see her as soon as you can risk leaving your room."  "I feel some better," replied Clinton, " and will join you in a short time for a few moments in the parlor." The reader should know that Clinton had been inti- mately acquainted with Miss Raymond from her earli- est childhood. The daughter of his father's partner in business, he had often been thrown in-her company. Indeed, they had frequently sauntered together in the gardens and groves of The Cottage. Before his ac- quaintance with Ethel Somers, he had even felt greater partiality for her than that which exists between mere acquaintances. That feeling, however, which had never ripened into actual love, had been totally eradicated from his bosom by his acquaintance with Ethel. But for her influence over his affections he would have found no difficulty in giving his whole heart to Miss Raymond. It was now his duty, as he believed, to resist his finely-wrought affections for W[iss Somers; and he had'determined at once to give himself the utmost liberty in his-power, to transfer his thoughts, and if possible, his love from the southern to the northern beauty. Thus determined and fortified, he 4*   82 - -     ETHEL SOMERS; OR, soon made his appearance in the drawing room. His meeting with Miss Raymond was at first embarrassing on his part, while she was the picture of grace, beauty, and smiles. He felt a dark shadow pass over his heart and face, as a sudden memory of Ethel called vividly to his mmd her sad appearance in his dream. Both his aunt and Miss Raymond saw his evident discomposure; but the latter attributing it to his ill-health, with a po- lite sweetness of manner, expressed her regrets at find- ing him so indisposed. - He remained a short time in conversation with the ladies, and excusing himself on, the score of his health, retired to his room. "Edward is certainly quite ill," said Mrs. Howard to Miss Raymond, "else itwould have been to him a source of great pleasure to have remained with us." "He is quite-pale," said Miss R. in reply; " but Ihope that rest and quiet will soon restore him."' For two days, Clinton was unable to leave his room during which time he was visited by his father and mother, from whom and his aunt he received the most tender and unremitting attentions. On the third dav he was sufficiently improved to make his appearance in the drawing room. "This, Miss Raymond," said he,  is the sweet rose which you were so kind as to send me. I   have prized it highly, and preserved it as an evidence of your friendly sympathy." "I amglad," said she, "that you so deemed it. Our spirits, when drooping in ill health, are often cheered by the rich tints and delightful fragrance of a flower." ' Espe- cially so were mine," said Clinton, "  by this beautiful rose, coming as it did from so fair a hand as yours. I verily believe I am indebted to your kindness in send- ing it to me for so sudden a change inmy condition."   THE FATE OF THE -UNION.      88 "You are quite complimentary," said Miss Raymond, with a smile. I am certainly gratified to hear you at- tribute such virtues to it, even if the idea originates solely in your fancy." "Finding you so- much better, and so pleasantly situated," said the elder Clinton to his son, "I have ordered the carriage, and will return to town. I shall leave your mother with you; but, my dear Miss Raymond," said he, "I shall look to you more than to any one else to restore him to his usual health. He has constantly kept by him the rose you sent him, and inhaled its fragrance as if he thought it superior to the most exquisite perfume of Araby." "You may rely upon my efforts at least," said Miss Raymond. "I will take him out to look at the fiesh young buds which cluster upon the vines, and urge him to walk out into the pure air of these beautiful grounds. They will do him more good than the bitter drugs of the shops." During the -next three days, Clinton's health rapidly improved, and his spirits be- came hourly more elastic in her cheerful society. Indeed, he seemed to improve, as if under the in- fluence of some fabled nepenthe. Miss Raymond was just out of her teens, and dressed, as she always was, in exact taste, her finely developed figure shone to ex- ceeding advantage. Nothing could exceed the beauty of her rich peacly complexion.  Her features were faultless, and it was evident, at first sight, that nature had even less displayed its finishing power in her per- son, than the attributes of her mind. Had Clinton never seen Ethel, his imagination would have roved in vain in search of a more lovely and lovable object. Forced as he felt himself to be, by a sad necessity, to give up Ethel, it was a consolation to know that in   84      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, Mary Raymond he would find a being worthy of his utmost devotion. Each returned to their homes in the city, and though the thought of addressing Mary Raymond had fre- quently passed through his mind, he did not, daring their stay at The Cottage, breathe a word of love. In- deed, the frank, unartificial, friendly bearing of Miss Raymond, added to the frequently recurring image of Ethel, would have prevented it even had he desired so soon to introduce the subject. CHAPTER      VIII. "WELL, Edward," said Mr. Clinton, the day after his return from The Cottage, " the time has arrived when, at your own suggestion, you were to decide upon the proposition submitted to you a few days since. I hope you have concluded to yield to my  wishes." "It seems to me, father, that my honor is so deeply in- volved in what has passed between Miss Somers and myself, that I cannot so suddenly forsake her." "I know well how to appreciate your feelings," said the elder Clinton, " and I admire them. While I am still anxious that you should marry Miss Raymond, I have resolved to yield to my fate should circumstances re- quire it. Your views are still the same on the ques- tion of slavery?" "They are," replied Edward. "Then write to Miss Somers without delay, to that effect, and renew to her the offer you made to her at Woodlawn. Should she accept, I   will be contentI   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      85 but should her reply be adverse, promise me that Miss Raymond shall be your wife, if you can win her hand." "Your advice and wishes," said-Edward, "shall be literally complied with." The younger Clinton retired to his room, and wrote to Ethel as follows: "My Dear Miss Somers: "At our interview the evening previous to my de- parture from Woodlawn, I solicited time to consider the condition imposed by you, upon which, alone, JI could hope to obtain your hand. Since my return to New York, it has been the subject of my most profound and deepest meditation, I feel constrained by a sense of honor and duty to inform you, that my convictions are immutable. I may seem precipitate, but I cannot re- concile with justice to yourself, a delay, in making this declaration, which would keep you in unnecessary sus- pense. My love for you impels me to exempt you from that. I loved you beyond the power of language to describe. My heart remains unchanged. I still offer it to you as I did in person; Accept it; and though the seasons may change, and time strew his path with wrecks, it will know no change in its love. What will you say, sweet charmer of my soul? I dread to hear. Yet I pray you to reply. The barrier, which you have interposed between us, forces me to address you with a formality which is at variance with the warmth and tenderness of my feelings. "Devotedly yours,          r "EDWARD CLINTON." Clinton determined, after penning this letter, to abstain from the society of Miss Raymond as much as   866  -    ETHEL SOMERS; OR, propriety would allow, until he should receive an answer from Miss Somers. On the following day, to . his utter astonishment, he received a card from Charles Somers, informing him of his arrival in New York. "Why," said Clinton, as he met him (having proceeded at once to the hoteD, "you might as well have come on with me, as I desired you to do. What calls you so suddenly to New York?"  "-My coming is only the afterpiece which follows the tragi-comedy at home." "How; what has happened?" said Clinton, with a serious tone and manner. "Only a fire, caused by the pure philanthropy of one of your northern abolitionists. Our residence at Woodlawn is a heap of ashes." "You surprise me,"' observed Clinton. "I trust none of your kind family were personally injured."..' Not danger- ously," said Charles, "but it had nearly proved to be an awful tragedy." "I beg you," said Clinton, "to relieve my suspense by relating the circumstances of the sad affair." "They were briefly these," said Charles. "A man named Hervey, a bloody-minded abolitionist, induced a negro to leave his master at New Orleans, and go with him to New York, where he told him he would enjoy the blessings of freedom. The boat on which the slave took passage with him was detained some hours at Vicksburg. The owner, having -immediately pursued them, succeeded in cap- turing his slave, but Hervey made his escape on board of another boat, which was just leaving the wharf. Having some business at Jackson, the owner took the cars at Vicksburg for that place; and while there sold the slave to my father. About one o'clock, on the second night after the purchase, my father, almost suffocated with smoke,gave the alarm of fire. I rushed   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      87 from my bed, and, to my utter amazement, found the flames bursting out from the stairway which led from the second to the lower story. My mother hav- ing been removed to the yard, my father rushed up another stairway, which led to the room just over his, which was occupied by my sister Ethel. Such was the rapidity with which the flames spread through this portion of the house, that before he could arouse Ethel and descend, this pair of stairs was also on, fire. He threw a blanket around her, and bore her in his arms through the flames; My sister escaped with only a slight burn; but, my father was considerably itnured. I escaped by a ladder placed against the window of my room. It was a dreadful scene. My mother's screams and Ethel's were perfectly heartrending, until it was ascertained that we had all escaped with our lives. I left my father recovering from his burns, and in a fair way to be well in a short time." "And how," said Clinton, "did you leave your sister?" "Nearly as well as ever. She and my. mother were much frightened, but both escaped serious personal harm." "Well," observed Clinton, "what did Hervey have to do with the burning of the house?" "HisL agency," re- plied Charles, " was only indirect; and there is no proof of it, save in the declarations of the negro, who was almost immediately seized, under circumstances which showed him to have been the incendiary. He soon confessed his guilt-; and, when questioned as to its cause, said      that      the slaves in the South owed it to themselves to seek vengeance of their oppressors. They ought, said he, to obtain their freedom by all the means in their power. ' Were I one of them,' said Hervey, according to the slave's   88       ETHEL SOMERS; OE, account, 'I would burn the dwelling of my tyrant, and take his life and the lives of his wife and children, if necessary, to get rid of' my- chains.' It seems," con- tinued Charles, "that Hervey had obtained a complete mastery over the weak and superstitious mind- of this unhappy slave. In the wildness of his ignorant en- thusiasm, he had set fire to the building. In order to accomplish his object the more effectively, he had ob- tained access to the house through an open window, in which, as the night was cloudy and exceedingly dark and windy, he had introduced a considerable quantity of rich and inflammable lightwood. Among other revelations made by this slave, was the declaration of Hervey; that he had succeeded in getting my father's servant Julius to go with him to New York. Herveyi told, the slave that Julius was doing well; was fast acquiring property, and lived like a gentleman. I feel, Clinton," continued Charles, " that I can repose confi- dence in you. Upon the declaration of the slave, I have come to your city to look after Julius. But for my desire to see more -of the world, I should not have come merely to recover him; for my father expressly enjoined upon me to let him do as he pleased, should I be able to find him. If Julius shall desire to remain here, he can do so; but if he shall prefer to go back, I desire to conduct him away in profound secrecy., You, I know, will admit that my father is libera! in the , fmatter. If Julius shall prefer to return home, no one should object; and yet, were it known, I should be prevented by violence from taking him away. It is due to myself to say, Clinton, that had I come to claim -him under the fugitive slave law, I should not hesitate to do it. No; I should not shrink from the assertion       THE FATE OF THE UNION.      89 of my right, even if surrounded by a pack of abolition demons as hellish as those who foully murdered Ken- nedy and Gorsuch, for no reason other than that of claiming their rightful property under the laws of the land." "To show ,you, Charles," replied Clinton, "how little I sympathise with such lawless violence, I will aid you in seeking for Julius, and in effecting your return with him in-so secret a way that no one can suspect your purpose until you shall have gone beyond the reach of danger. I would not only inter- pose no obstacles in the way of executing the law, but I would willingly aid in its enforcement, were you to claim him by virtue of the statute." "'I am obliged to you for the proffer of so kind a service," replied Charles, " and with the good understanding existing between us, I will gladly avail myself of it. Owing to the condition of affairs at home, I am desirous. of beginning the search without delay. Have you any idea in what part of the city he may be found?" "Not in the least; but, unless he is engaged as a servant in a hotel, it would not suprise me if he were at this moment in some loathsome den of degradation and misery. From the description you have given me of Julius," continued Clinton, "I think I have seen him. I once gave a pittance to a young negro man, whose light complexion and general appearance would answer well your description of Julius; but the one of whom I speak did not seem to possess an active and cheerful disposition, such as you represent his to have been. He -was thin and haggard, and said that he had long been sick, and was almost famished for want of food. This happened only a few days before I left New York for Louisville. Business pressed upon me at the time,   90  -    ETREL SOMERS; ORB, and I could not delay long enough to inquire into the particulars of his situation. Indeed, I thought but little about his case, as I had seen so many others of his race situated similarly as himself." "You may rely upon it," said Charles, "that he is in a wretched condition. When directed by a master, or some one -who will plan his work or movements, he is active and useful; -but left to depend on his own judgement and enterprise, he would soon come to want. Most ne- ,groes, however healthy and strong they-may be, are indolent by nature. They are valuable under a system of well regulated labor, but become burdens upon society when left to act for themselves. Julius is like the great mass of his race.  I am told," continued Charles, " that there are certain quarters of this city in which the blacks have become located in considerable numbers." "Yes," said Clinton; "your information is correct; and it would be difficult to find any popu- lation more squalid, miserable, and debased than they are." Charles and Clinton agreed, at the suggestion of the latter, to stroll on the following day, into the section of the city to which we have referred, to inquire after Julius. Clinton proposed a short promenade upon Broadway before tea. While they were looking around at many objects of interest, at least to Charles, who had never been 'in New  York before--at the dashing carriages-the heavy rolling omnibuses- women dressed in all the gayety of fashion-men pass- ing rapidly to and fro, as if struggling for life-their ears saluted, meanwhile, with the commingled notes of bands of music, the constant beating of numberless prnting engines, the quick startling cries of the news-boys, as they rushed with rapid strides up and   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      91 down the streets with their bundles of papers, a little, ragged boy, apparently about ten years of age, accosted them, and, in tones -of heartfelt sorrow, said: "My poor mother is very sick; one of my little sisters is dying; do give me a little money to buy some bread for my mother and the rest of us who are almost starving." "Great God I " said Charles, losing in a moment all in- terest in what was passing in the great artery: of the, emporium of commerce; "How is this? Have you women and children starving in this rich and magnifi- cent city?" "Ah," replied Clinton, "it is but too true; and it is the fate of all our large cities." "For God's sake," said Charles, "let us go with this child a: once. There seems to be no time to lose." Clinton, whose sympathies were ever active to re- lieve distress, warmly assented, and they followed the little fellow, who walked with a new and rapid step before them. As he passed swiftly along, he would occasionally turn his little wistful face to look up at the kind gentleman who had responded so quickly and kindly to his application. -It beamed with a sad delight. On .the way they stepped into a refectory and filled -a basket with- loaves of bread, wines, and various delicacies, such as would be suitable for the appetites of the hungry and sick. Soon they passed into a dark and dismal alley, and presently reached the door of a small and miserable house which opened upon the ground. A splendid carriage stood in front. The little boy quickly opened the door, and Clinton and Charles saw, at a glance, the picture within. A lady, whose back was towards the door, was kneeling by the side of a little bed of straw in the corner of the.. room. In another was a poor woman, whose pale and   Q2       '1iTHEL SOMERS; OR, haggard looks evinced at once the deep ravages of dis- ease, famine, and despair. Near her lay another child, whose face exhibited more of the lean, lank ex- pression of hunger, than disease. It was cranching a piece of bread with the eagerness which marks the ferocity of a starving whelp. Another child was standing by the lady, and it also was eating in the same famished manner, while looking intently upon its dying sister. The lady, who had evidently been present but a few- moments, so seated' herself as to place the head of the child in her lap. As she did this, Clinton obtained a partial view of her face, and for the first time, saw that it was Mary Raymond., Her dark tresses had become somewhat loosened, by her bending position, and hung along her cheek and shoulder, producing a lovely contrast with her beauti- ful white complexion; for her face -was anxious and pale. lHe and Charles drew back as if unwilling to disturb so solemn and sacred a scene. "We must not go," said Charles. "Besides making some future pro- vision for these unhappy beings, I wish to look again upon that angel's face." Turning to the mother, with a tender, sad expression, Miss Raymond said, "The spirit of your child, bereaved mother, has gone to rest in its heavenly Father's bosom." Her further ut- terance was, stopped by the sobs and cries of the, un- happy -mother. "Oh, my   child I how I toiled for thee' and the others until, weakened by exertion, dis- ease, and care, I could labor no more. Kind lady," said she, "my  poor child has died for want of food. I and my four childien have often gone for days with- out eating as much as nature craves and needs at a sPgle meal." It was pitiful to hear her account of   -THE FATE OF THE UNION.   .   98 their destitution and suffering. "t But this morningn'" continued she, "that poor, sick darling raised its feeble hands towards me, and, with a look of suffering depend- ence, said to me, in tones of infantile weakness which pierced my heart with anguish, i Oh, mother 1 give me some bread, or I shall die.' I prayed fervently to heaven that little Luther or Amy might -soon return- with some. The former came back and said he had begged in vain. My poor dear Lilla looked eagerly at him as lhe entered the room, but closed her sickly eyeb and cried and groaned when she saw that he brought no bread with him. Amy came about noon, with a single small loaf; but it was too late; my poor child had become too weak to eat. But, good lady, God be praised, that yoi have come in time to save the rest. Often have I worked with my needle from sixteen to twenty hours of the day to save them and myself from starva- tion. My scanty earnings, of sometimes less than three shillings per week, could not support us -after paying the rent for this desolate habitation." The- woman sobbed in the excess of her grief, "Good mother," said Miss Raymond, "how happyI shouldhave been could I have sooner known the urgency of your wants. This little girl accosted me as I alighted from my carriage, and as well as her crying would permit, explained how matters were at her home. I lost not a moment, but placed the child in the carriage, and, seating myself by her, came hither at once. I beg you to be more composed. The ways of God are past finding out. Death, it is true, under trying circum- stances, has spread its shadowy wings over your little Lilla, but it has, ere this, opened its angel eyes upon the mysterious and golden splendors of its Father's   "      ETHEL SOMERS; OR,- "eternal home. It will hunger no more, but will feed upon the food of seraphs. It will cry in vain no more, for it rests on its father's arms. Though its little spirit belongs now to Paradise, it-will not forget you, but wait until such time as it may please our common Father in heaven to unite it with your's in the climes of the blessed, for ever." Thus did Mary Raymond soothe -and comfort this unhappy mother. Turning then to the little girl who was lying sick by her mother's side, she spoke to her words of gentle kindness, and her voice and manner was like an angel's. Taking her own costly handker- chief, she'dipped it in some water which stood in an earthen bowl, and wiped frotn the forehead and face of the child, the sickly dews which overspread them. The child was athirst, and she raised its head and gave it water. "You are better now, since you have eat and drank. You feel better, do you not, my little Judith?" for that was her name. The child nodded its head and gazed at Mary Raymond with a look of mingled surprise and pleasure. Such words, such tones, were strange sounds to her ears, except as they had fallen from the lips of her mother. Clinton and Charles had stood without the door, in silent admira- tion of the angel: of mercy who ministered to the un- fortunate within that lonely dwelling; and often the tear of pity stole down their cheeks as they witnessed the scene, and listened to the music soothings of her voice. The sun was nearly down, and Miss Raymond approached the door- to send her servant for a good woman, who lived near by, to stay with and nurse the sick and unfortunate beings before her. Her surprise was great to- see two gentlemen standing near the   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      95 door. She immediately :recognized Clinton, who ad- vanced and said, "We came, Miss Raymond, to aid these suffering people, having been informed- of their condition by the little boy within. Seeing you minis- tering to their wants with holy offerings of chanity, while death was hovering in this dismal room, we hesitated to intrude. But now that you have crowned your sacred mission with the essential comforts which they needed, we will, with your permission, place our- selves at your command to do whatever you may de- sire still to have accomplished." Charles, who had made a profoundly respectful obeisance to Miss Raymond, when introduced by Clin- ton, also said, "Permit me, Miss Raymond, with the most respectful homage, to tender to you at the same time the tribute of my admiration of your benevolence, and my services in, any way you may see proper to cormmand them." Miss Raymond gracefully thanked them both, and stated that she would avail herself of their generous offers should circumstances require them. Having instructed her servant to go after the good woman to whom allusion has been made, she gave a small quantity of the wine, which Charles and Clinton had brought, to the sick woman and child. When the nurse arrived, she engaged her to remain with them until their. condition should be such as no longer to require her attention. "When I get home," said she, "I will send you some materials to add to their com- fort, and a servant to assist you in a suitable attention. to the corpse of the child." Having spoken a few kind: words to the poor woman and her children, promising to call again, she took a respectful leave of Charles and Clinton. Doubtless these deeds of mercy afforded her   96       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, more real gratification than she could have experienced in a whole year's succession of the gayest and most attractive pleasures of that gay and fashionable city. Charity iii the person of woman is an angel ministry. We think of her voice when thus engaged, in connec- tion with the sound of summer harps, and her deeds as the results of Heaven's inspiration. "True charity, a plant divinely nursed, Fed by the love'from which it rose at first, Thrives against hope; and in the rudest- scene, Storms but enliven its unfading green; . Exuberant in the shadows, it supplies Its fruit on earth, its growth above the skies." CHAPTER' IX. CLINTON and Charles, feeling a deep interest in the condition and fate of the unfortunate woman and her children, whom they had visited before tea, went to her house at a late hour to look in and inquire after them. The nurse informed them that they were all in a com- fortable condition. Miss Raymond had sent them bedsteads and mattrasses, and other materials, which added greatly to their comforts, and everything was progressing as- well as could be expected iti so short a time. While there, their attention was attracted to a brilliantly lighted mansion, which rose in magnificent proportions, on a main street but a short distance from the loathsome alley inr which these unfortunate people ' lived, Its spacious parlors were decked with the most costly magnificence-with painted ceilings, palatial /    THE FATE OF THE UNION.       97 mirrors, rich hangings and draperies, and everything correspondingly gorgeous and   splendid. Brilliant lights from golden chandeliers and lustrous candelabra fell upon gay figures which thronged them, and were reflected from a thousand gems and diamonds which glittered in the hair and upon the lovely and graceful forms of beauty. Music, soft and sweet as breathings from Apollo's lute, escaped from glittering casements, and- floated off in melting strains upon the balmy even- ing breeze. Within, the " muse of many twinkling feet " was holding his brilliant court, and forms of love- ly women and gallant men, in graceful and airy undu-'- lations, tripped the mirthful mazes of the dance. Thus did wealth and fashion rule the hour in that lordly palace;, while hunger, death and sorrow gnawed the vitals, paled the brows and wrung the hearts of the children of want- in lowly habitations near. In one, the voice of cheer and gladness was heard; in the other, the cry of anguish, and the groans of the suffering. Clinton- and Charles listened for a time in silent con- templation. Both were at the same moment contrasting the two conditions.  Retracing their steps, Clinton tarried a while longer with Charles at his room. It would be difficult to describe the conflict of thoughts and emotions which disturbed the bosom of the former. The full, but soft and manly voice of Charles-his presence, and above all, his sterling worth-wrought in Clinton's mind memories of Woodlawn, and particul larly of Ethel, so vivid and life-like, that they rose constantly before him in all their fullness, freshness and beauty. But the die was cast, unless Ethel, in reply to his letter, should retract the condition upon which alone she could: consent to be his. This made his as- - 5     * *'..   98       E'kTHEL SOMERS; OR, sociation, with Charles a source of awkward uneasiness on his part, and yet he was glad to be with, and regret- ted to separate from him. He felt as if Charles was a link between him and Ethel, and occasionally he felt a - glow upon his cheek at the recollection of the necessity which might soon compel him-to seek, at least, to pre cipitate himself into a new relation which would sever in twain and for ever, his fate and fortune from hers. Charles had seen from his first meeting with Clinton that something weighed heavily upon his spirits. He attributed it alone, however, to his recent illness, and his anxiety on the subjebt of his and Ethel's contrariety of sentiments on the question of slavery; for he was aware of all that had passed .between them. Charles felt a deep sympathy for both, for he knew the unhappy condition of Ethel's mind, and imagined that Clinton's was similarly affected. His sympathy received a new and acerescent zest in the contemplation that since he had seen Miss Raymond he did not know how soon, from some cause, or in some way, he might lack a com- forter himself. She was certainly, he thought, a charm- ing creature, and for aught that he knew to the con- trary, the most charming he had ever beheld. His in- troduction to her in a loathsome alley, amidst sickness and suffering and death, added to the luster of her beauty and-the power of her attraction; for she was there the ministering angel of mercy--the friend of the mourner, the unhappy widow and her orphan children. As heart less romantic, and of colder sympathies than his, might be touched by so sweet a union of beauty and benevolence. He had already resolved to avail himself of her polite invitation to call at her mother's house, and he eagerly longed for an opportunitgy to do . *    THE FATE OF THE UNION.       99 so. If he was impelled by curiosity alone, it was a singularly thrilling impulse of that quite common at-- tribute of mortals. It was a-strange curiosity which- made him desire to look again into her sweet face, her bright black eyes, and catch, in one- general glance, the outline of 'her elegant figure. ICuriosity may excite a desire similar to his, but when the heart palpitates in connection with it, what is that?  "I do say, Clinton," observed Charles, after both of them' had enjoyed, or rather experienced, a reverie of several minutes, " that Miss Raymond, at first sight, presents a configuration of form which defies the power of criticism. Do you not agree with me?" "She is rather tall, I think," said Clinton. "Her beauty wouild be more, attractive were it less magnificent." "I differ with you in that," said Charles. "I know your admi- ration for fairies and peris, but I prefer the tall, full figure, when to majesty is added the graceful tournure. I most admire the female figure when it falls but a little below our conception of a royal Juno, or some other magnificent goddess of the ancients. Miss Raymond possesses just that medium of fullness and excellence. Her person may not quite fill our conception of the ideal and the ethereal, and for that very reason I admire, it the more. Give me less of the fairy, and some more of the woman. I am willing to give up something of what you call the poetry of figure for that." "I under- stand you, and in a great 'measure agree with you," observed Clinton. "Miss Raymond certainly possesses a beautiful and queenly person." With this remark, Clinton became' silent, for he was in no frame of mind for an argumentative criticism upon the person of Miss R. Charles,* however, betrayed his          100       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, new-born interest' in her by saying, "Whatever you may think of her person, you cannot be insensible to the great beauty of her face. What a forehead she has  How white, even and intellectual! How beautifully-it contrasts with her dark tresses ; and then, her penciled brows, her bright black eyes, so tender, so gentle in their glances, compared with most eyes of that hue. And then, again, her face, her rich complexion, her soft cheek, her delicate, Grecian nose, her smiling, rosy lips, her round, delicate, dimpled chinl But I see, Clinton, you seem averse to talking of. Miss Ray- mond's beauty,"   "Oh'," replied he, though moment- arily carried away by disturbing thoughts, "Iwas listen- ing to you. She must be perfect in your eyes, when all these fine attributes of person constitute only a mortal temple for such a soul as hers to inherit." "True," said Charles, " were she homely, misshapen, even re- pulsive in personal appearance, her soul would give loveliness to her character."  As he said this, the clock struck twelve. "The late hour," said Clinton, "re- minds me that I must go.- Besides, my father's health is delicate, and it behooves me to be somewhat careful on my own account." The friends parted for the night; Clinton to revolve the difficulties of his situa- tion, and Charles to- dream of Mary Raymond. Al- though Clinton and Charles called early to see the poor woman on the following morning, Miss Raymond had been there, and had already left. They saw   a -manifest improvement in the sufferers, and scarcely, recognized the room, so completely had -it been meta- morphosed by the direction of that charming young lady. Thence they strolled into the dismal and filthy dens/'which are occupied by  large numbers of free   THE FATE OF THE UNION.'      101 blacks of the city. They were both shocked by the squalid and miserable looks of the great mass of those unfortunate creatures. Charles was the more so, as he had never before seen them, although he had often heard of their degradation and wretchedness. But as much as Clinton had hitherto seen of it, this visit presented it to his eyes in a light of horror of which he had not even conceived. They descended at last into a gloomy cellar, the atmosphere of which was so offensive, that Clinton proposed to make inquiry for Julius without going fully into it. While exchanging a few words as to the most prudent plan of effecting their purpose, their ears were saluted with these words, pronounced in a feeble and husky tone of voice, "Oh, Mars Charles I Mars Charles! Thank God    you've cum!" Charles looked towards the place from which the voice came, and saw by the dim light that it was Julius. "Why, is that you, Julius, 'my poor fellow? I am glad to see you once more." As he said this, Julius rose from a pallet of straw, upon which he had been lying, and tottered to meet him. "Oh! Mars Charles," said he, seizing him by the hand, and his voice choked, while tears streamed down his lank and wasted cheeks. L My .poor fellow," said Charles, "come to the light and let me see you better;" and he led him to the cellar door, and made him seat himself upon one of-the steps. Charles was deeply affected at the sight. He had never seen a human being so defeatured. Julius, at home in Mississippi, was a tall, straight, -well-made fellow, with a full, cheerful face, was active as a cat, and possessed of a lively, and, for a servant, polite de- portment.  But now he bent beneath sickness and destitution. His eyes were sunk ia their sockets, anti "f .  ,i   '102      ETHEL'SOMERS; OR, his cheeks, almost destitute of flesh, were of a sickly, ashen hue. His hands, once so plump, were thin and bony, and his ankles and feet were so swollen that he could scarcely use them. To make the picture worse, his clothes were ragged and filthy, and his hair had grown long and bushy, and was clotted with the com- mingled dirt and damps of the cellar. As soon as Julius recovered somewhat from his joyful surprise and excessive emotion, he looked up wishfully at Charles, and ejaculated, with a ghostly. smile playing upon his countenance, "Oh! Mars Charles, I could almost die, I am so glad to see you I How's marster? How's missus?  How's Miss Ethel? I'd give any- thing to see um again!" "I left them all well," said Charles, " and they told me to tell you 'howdy' for them, if I should find you." - Julius burst into tears when Charles said this, and sobbed like a troubled child. "You must not take on so," said Charles; "don't be frightened either; I have not come to de- prive you of your liberty." Julius looked at Charles witht affright and horror. "Mars Charles," said he, "if you aint gwine to carry me back with you, just let me stretch out here and die at once." ' Never mind about-that now; we'll talk that over at another time.!' Julius looked up wistfully and confidingly into his young master's face. "What sort of a coat is this, Julius, that you have on? Is this the New York fashion for free blacks? Half a tail, two buttons, and only a part of a collar. Why, if you had gone pos- sum hunting, and been chased by a panther or a pack of wolves through a briar patch in Mississippi, you would have come out with more covering and fewer holes in it than' you exhibit now." Julius smiled -i.   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      103 ghastlily, and said, "Oh, Mars Charles, God bless Massisipi, and all of them there. I han't eat as much meat since I've been in this 'bolition land as one big, fat possum would 'mount to." "I should judge there is some truth in that remark," said Charles, " from the amount of meat upon your bones. But we must take you away from this place. Whether you stay or go, you must try and pick up some as soon as you can. I am not long for New York."   L Nor me nuther, I hope," said Julius. "TThat darned 'bolitionist (you must scuse me for talkin' so 'bout a white man) fool'd me most perticler. This is no place for niggers, nor poor white folks nuther. You see that white man thar, and that ooman tuther side of him-they are bad off as me. Talk 'bout liberty I Thar's no liberty wurth having for niggers here; and, in my 'pinion, its flung away upon such white folks as them!" . Clinton agreed to see Julius removed to more com- fortable quarters, as it would excite less suspicion, and Charles having left him under his care, stating that he would pay all the expenses of nursing, etc., returned alone to the hotel. Julius was immediately removed, and under the instructions given by Charles, was in- troduced to a due quantity of soap and water, and after- wards arrayed in a full suit of new and comfortable clothes. Shortly afterwards, Charles stepped to his new abode, and was pleased to see so great a change, so suddenly, in his appearance and spirits. Julius cried and laughed by turns, so full was his joy, Charles having provided him with an abundant supply of good and wholesome food, and some wine, an article to which he-had not been accustomed at home, left him, promising to call and have full talk with him on the   104      Tl'lsL SOMERS; OR, following day. Julius stepped to the door as Charles left,-and followed him with joyful eyes until he was lost to sight in turning the corner of the street. "God bless you, Mars Charles,", said he as he turned from the door. Clinton and Charles having called upon Misis Raymond, according to appointment, were usher- ed into a handsomely-arranged parlor, which was tasteful without extravagance, and ornate without the vain pomp of show. To an artistic eye it exhibited an elegant simplicity, which -symbolized the union of the wealth and good sense of the owner. Somers, who had not seen it before, felt that even this room repre- sented, in some measure, the character of the frank, artless, but lovely Mary Raymond. While a thought of that kind was crossing his mind, she entered the drawing-room, and he was more struck than ever with her finely-turned figure, and the, magic sweetness of her smile, as she gracefully saluted Clinton and him- self. "This is your first visit to New York, I believe, Mr. Somers," said Miss Raymond, when they were seated.  "I hope you have been pleased with it and our section generally, and will be more so the longer you remain."   Charles, who had been not only delight- ed with the magnificence of New York, but specially charmed by what he had seen and heard of the fair speaker before him, was by no means wanting in com- plimentary expressions in reply. "I had the pleas- ure," said Miss Raymond, " of seeing, the past summer, for a short time, a very beautiful young lady of'your name, from the South.  Was she arelative ofyour's?" "My sister did visit the North during that season," re. plied Charles,!" but I do not knowthat she is the person towhomyouallude."  "Perhaps Mr. Clinton can settle /   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      105 that question," said Miss Raymond, casting at him at the same time an arch glance of her bright black eye. Clinton, under ordinary circumstances, was not wanting in self-possession, but situated as he then was, her re- mark and coup d'oeil was positively more than he could stand, and a lively crimson suddenly arose to his cheeks. This was the first intimation he had had that Miss Raymond knew he was even acquainted with Ethel Somers. She left Saratoga a day or two after EthePs arrival there, and they did not meet again dur- ing the summer. He, however, soon felt the retreat of the soft suffusion, and said, "The Miss Somers whom you saw was the sister of Mr. Somers. I saw her frequently during the summer," and he added, lest it, might come out in some way to give him fresh embarrassment, "I had the pleasure of seeing her re- cently when on a short visit to the South." "Ah! you did not tell me of that while I was at The Cottage." Then suddenly turning to Charles, she said, "Perhaps your sister has accompanied you to New York." "Oh no;" said Charles, "I came alone. A business matter suggested the idea of my coming; and my desire to see this section of the country ripened it into an actual visit" "What stay," said Miss Raymond, " will you make in the city?" "-That will depend upon circum- stances," said Charles. "When I left Mississippi I did not expect to remain here more than a day or two, but it is probable that I shall be delayed a week," "In that short time," said Miss Raymond, " you will scarcely be able to see half of the interesting objects afforded by our city, and its environs, and but little of our northern society, its habits and customs." "That is true," said Charles. "I must be content this time to   106      'ETHEL SOMERS; OR, see things upon the wing. I expected only to take an, extended glance at the great outlines of your cities your country, and people, reserving until some future time a closer research, such as you have alluded to. I may return in the summer; Icertainly feel that H shall ... desire to do so." "I hope," said Miss Raymond, " that you will come and bring your pretty sister with you. What little I saw of her makes me long to see her again. As we remember a sweet voice in childhood, or a strain of melting music heard long years ago, so do I remember the sweet light of her,bright blue eye, and the soft, rosy transparency of her cheeks."  "Your memory of her," said Charles, "will. be a pleasing souvenance for me. I will bear to her your kind words, and she I  know, will equally desire to reciprocate the senti- ments they so kindly express." Clinton looked and listened, and in spite of himself was absorbed in thought. Miss Raymond and Charles both, observed that his face was pale. "I fear," said Charles to Clinton, "your energies have been too much taxed since my arrival in New York. For one just convalescent, you have, in the goodness of your nature and your desire to please, denied yourself by day and night, the repose which is so essential to your speedy re- storation." Saying this he proposed to depart. Clinton with delicacy and politeness observed that he could not be more agreeably situated. But Charles insisted resisting both his friend's declaration and Miss Ray- mond's fascinating solicitation that'they should stay longer, and warmly accepting her polite invitation to call again, they gracefully bowed and retired. "I swear, Clinton," said Charles, after they had fairly got   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      107 into the street, " thatthis Miss Raymond would do to exhibit at a show of the Graces. She has, too, an ad- vantage over either-the warm sympathies of an al- most angelic human heart. If I thought I could get a single ray of her love to shine upon me, I would turn in the direction to catch the warmth and glory of its heavenly light." "I think," said Clinton, "you have turned in that direction already. Charles, you are in love now. Love is an electric spark. It is quicker than the flash of lightning. A single--the first-glance of an eye often transfixes the soul. Miss Raymond's form as she' bent over .that dying child excited your imagination and sympathy. Nothing was wanting then, but a flash of her dark, lustrous eyes-one glimpse of her fair, beautiful face-to send love's arrow quivering to your heart. You saw the flash, the face, and Cupid need draw his bow-string no more. I You are 'done for,' or I know nothing of love." Thus spoke Clinton, without a pang of jealousy, for his thoughts of Miss Raymond were steeped in the rays of duty, not of love. He could view Charles only as a rival to contest possession pof her. Charles might be successful, and yet 'Clinton would feel no slight of the heart. He felt humiliated at the idea that he could only seek her for gold; and yet he acknowledged that were he to make so great a sacrifice, and do a deed so heartless, he could place his unworthy offering upon no shrine- without the pale of love-so pure and holy. That very thought made him shrink back with horror. -Better would it be for him, he thought, that he should seek some: object less allied in soul, to heaven, than Mary Raymond.   Clinton, by nature, was noble-   -'108     ETHEL SOMERS; OR, hearted and generous. Education had served only to set off his inborn principles of-honor. He had caught, from association, none of those artificial lights-- whether of morals or manners-which so-often sparkle to ensnare and betray the young. Truth and honor were esteemed by him as the safeguards of man's true destiny upon earth. Hence, to woo a woman, with falsehood upon his lips-to obtain her vows of faith in response to forced and hypocritical professions of attachment, even though by cunning and deceitful guises she might never know that she was betrayed-- was a game, the very thought of which, the more he pondered it, proved bitter to his taste, and abhorrent to every noble and generous-sen'timent of his soul. "If," thought he, "I am to seek my -honor (talk not of love that would be cursed and withered), let me seek some subtle, vain, and heartless woman, who would be as much a traitor to my bosom as I to her's. I would not then be the idol of a confiding heart, nor would my wife be before me a perpetual, reliant, loving, and, without knowing it, reproachful monu- ment of my wrong. Though a ruined worshiper, or, an unhappy victim of mammon, my wife would be a priestess at the same shrine-the altar of hypocrisy-- and we, unchained by love, guilty alike of vowing false, could each, without deserving the other's re- proach, meet the mockeries of fate and fortune." These wild thoughts, passing rapidly through Clin- ton's mind, afforded some relief from the mental cruciation to which he had been subjected. Though he might love Ethel, he derived-some solace from the reflection that he might aid his father without deceiv- ing Miss Raymond. His composure was made the s   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      109 more steady by having in his mind's eye the image of just such a vain, worldly-minded, and artificial crea- ture as his imagination had pictured, who was even more wealthy than she. As Clinton concluded the remark above alluded to, he and Charles were about to separate until the hour appointed for a ride through the city, and the latter observed, "You speak as if you could read my inmost thoughts. I will not call in question your penetration; but you must allow me a chance at some other time, to put it more effectually to the test. If you are right, I may want you to back me."                    - "Certainly," answered Clinton, gaily. "I will be your advocate in the Court of Love, if you shall need my services. But the true lover must depend mostly upon his own courage. He must be gentle without timidity, firm without assurance, and sentimental without affectation. "' With easy freedom, and a gay address, A pressing lover seldom wants success.'" CHAPTER X. "I SAY, Julius," said Charles Somers, when he -called in to look after him on the following day, "tell me all about your coming to .this land of liberty. What made you so tired of the old plantation in Mis- sissippi?" "I don't know, Mars Charles, what 'flu- enced me to run away, unless it was the 4ebil. The white man what fooled me so perticler, told me ef I'd   "O     BETtEL SOMERS; OR, go with him, I'd be as free as him, and live as"a gentleman ought. He said the Diclarashun of 'De- pendance, what Gineral-Washington fit for, put the white man and the black man on the same footin': that the white man stole the nigger from Africa, where God put him arter the flund which Noar bro't on the yearth. Gkod gin him that land for himsef, and told him to make corn and cotton thar, and put the money in his own poket; and he said- the white man went thar in his grate ship, seezed him, his wife and chillern, and bro't urm to Meriky, and set um to work thar for heself and not for theyself. This he told me was ginst the Diclarashun of 'Dependance, and the ex- press commanment of the Lord artur Noar's flud. He made me bleeve I was worked to death in Massisipi, and that ef I would 'sert my rights, I mout be a grate man some day or nuther in the land whar white and black wus one as good as tuther. So I included to go and see for misef. I had, you know, when I left, the plantashun to go to Vicsbug, fifty dollars, what-I made from my crop, and ten dollars what marster gin me. The mean 'bolitioner told me that it would be best for me to let him keep my money, and work my way on the passage of the bote, as 'spicion of my runnin' away would be kept down by that proceedin' So I gin him the money, and the captain of the bote gin me my passage for workin' on the way." "Well, Julius," said his young master, "I have a good deal to do and look after, more than I thought would come up before I got here, so you must talk quick, and speak to the point. Just tell me how you got here, and, in a few words, what has happened to you since." "Well," said Julius, "I wurk'd my way   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     1ll to Pittsburg, and there the cars left me. The 'bolition- ist told me to be at the dippo by such a time. I went thar afore the time, but the cars was gone. So I -offered to wurk my way to Filidelfy, and the same from thar to New York. I wurk'd some time at both places afore theywould let me ride in the cars. I was anxshus to git to New York, for the white man told  me he lived thar, and he had my money. I found him here about two weeks arter I got here; but he said that he was mistaken as to the time for starting, and findin'- I was not at the cars, he had left my money with the agent, and told him ito give it to me when I cum. This was a distressin' sukomstance; but he sot down and writ a letter right afore my eyes, which he said he would possit in the pos-offis, and that, he said, wiud fetch the money arter a while. But the money nuver cum, and it nuver did cum. The 'bolitionist, arter he writ two more letters on the subject, an' no money cum, 'tended to get as mad as our old Towser when a stray dog showed his teeth at him on his own ground, and said he'd have him 'rested. But all signs failed 'bout that money. At, last he told me I'd have to give it up as a bad speclation. Its the lot -of man, said he, black an' white, to meet with scounderls in this world who will rob them of their money. You are young, said he, an' active, an' can soon make up the loss. That was a pore satusfacshun to me who was then as weak as a nigger cood be who--hadn't et nothin' for mor'n two days. I axed him to gin me a dime to keep soul and body together, but he said he hadn't it, and told me to git work and make money in that way. I'm a nigger, MarsCharles, but I'm sartin of the fac that he nuver gin the money to the agent at   "2      Ekrhl   SOMERS; OR, all. What I've seed and suffered here has satisfied me with the 'bolitionists an' the Norf. Well, when I found my money was gone, and thar wus no 'pend-: ence, 'sept on work, I went to one of the hotels; and thar I was 'ployed for one munth on trial, at the rates of gittin my board for my work. When the munth was most out I was taken sick, an' then I was 'pend- ant on my 'ployer's goodness; but he said I must look out another place--that his house wasn't a hospittle for sick niggers. I begg'd him for God's sake to take care of me tell I got well, and I promis'd him to wurk anuther munth upon the same ,terms. He looked at me from head to foot, and said he was afraid to risk it-that I was a sickly nigger K any how, and lazy too, and he couldn't stand it. I then told him that I had run away from Massisipi, and had cum here, where I was told the black man could git work, an' would be treated on the principle of the Declarashun of'Dependance. He laff'd when I told him that, and said:' Julius, you will find thar is a great dif'rence 'tween preechin' and practis 'bout that. We are 'ginst the naybobs/ of the South holdin' the niggers in slav'ry; but we don't want 'um to cum here. We've got now more pore white folks heer than we know what to do with. They are our sarvants, and they make better sarvants than the blacks. Ef we don't like 'um, we can turn 'um of? and git more. Sometimes they are berry bad off, 'most as bad off as you; but they ar of our own culler, and our people feel a more nat'ral interest in them than they do in the niggers. But, said he, I will wait on you awhile, and ef you ,get well soon, and will go to work and do your best, I will try you anuther ninth. 'Sted of gittin' better, I got wurse ebery day; ,   THE FATE' OF THE UNION.,  and in less than a week he told me to look- out for 'nuther place-that I could stay no longer. I then got another black sarvant to go and see a man named Cesar, who, like me, had run away from his marster, an' beg him, for God's sake, to come and see me. Cesar cum  ; but he was not much better off than me; but he had 'passhun on me, as we both cum from Massisipi, and he went and got two other niggers, and cum after me with some sort of a cart and carried me to theplace where you found me. Cesar gin me some   ole dry bread, which taste like honey, 'twas so good and sweet; but it wa'nt anuff. I et that, but I was hungry still; , but Cesar could'nt spar' any more. Thare was several in the cellar in the same fix. They went out and begged sum, and stole sum, and in that way they got along tel the weather got so cold that it froze -umr to go out. It was cold in .the cellar; cold as ice. We huddled up together, and wrapp'd our blankets round us, for we had- no fire, arid shiv'rd, and cried, and prayed, till natur' gin out, and we went to sleep becase we could'nt help it. Cesar had been a preecher, an' I do b'leeve, Mars Charles the Lord was with him for awhile. One mornin' we all woke up stiff, and cold, and full of the most cruciating pains. esar was moes as bad off as any of us; but the sperit of the Lord seem'd to 'stain him. Said he,' Brudren-I call you brudren whether you b'long to the church of the Lord or not-will you jine me i par?' We all cries Yes, and then Cesar prayed to the Lord such a prar. as I nuver listened to afore. He pray'd for the people of the Norf, for the people of the -South, for our folks in particular. He pray'd the Lord ef he could forgive us for running away from our masters, who were good to   "4       hrHEL SOMERS; OB, s, who clothed and fed us, and giv' us warm and com- fortable houses, and took keer of us when sick and helpless, that he would open the harts of somebody in New York to cum and- keep us from'dying. ' O Lord! ' he said, 'we are dyin' for want of food and fire, and everything needed' in this cold and -tryin' time. We are poor, black people, almost gone in this grate City, where thare are so many rich white people who pertend to feel for us and simperthise with us in our distresses at home. Let 'um cum and simperthise wltfh us now-now is the time, right here, in this dark, damp, cold cellar, while the snow whitens the ground without, an' the cold wind whistles through the door, creeps to our poor hearts, and makes us 'most as cold as death. O; Lord, we resine ourselves to -thee, an' ef it pleases thee to take us now, oh take us to thyself in heaven for evurmore I' When Cesar finished his prar, he got up and went -to the cellar door, an' lifted up one- side of the door an' looked out. 'Oh,' said he, 'the Lord will take us to heself. Thare is no chance, for help. The snow falls so fast an' thick, I can't /see nowhar from the door. But,' he said, 'I will wrap my blanket round me, -and watch here ef so be it pleases God to send anybody this way in such orful wether as this:'- He staid sometime at the door. I could see him shake, and heer his teeth chatter, an'.he moaned as the snow fell thick upon him. 'Its no use,' said he, speakin' as if it 'mos' killed him to talk, ' to wait here v 'I will let down the door, 'nd lie down thare with you all, an' let the Lord do as he pleases.' Just as he said that, some one cum up to the door an' ax'd Cesar ef he wanted- help. 'Oh, yes,' said he; 'cum in and save us;' and as Cesar said that he fell- from the top step to the   T]r '2. Pc . v* J: J- ..- .. floor, an' lay there as if he was dead. We crawl'd to him an' rubbed him, an' the man put a bottle of sperits to his mouf, an' he swallow'd sum, an' soon he was better. 'O thank the Lord l'said he; 'thank the Lordl an' thank you, good white man, for cumin" when we wus about to shut the door for good.' We all drank of the sperits, an' et of the bread'an meat. ' Why did you cum here?' said Cesar. ,Wus it the Lord that sent you?' 'Miss Mary Raymon' sent me here,' said the man; 'but the Lord mout a put her up to it. She is all the time, sendin' me somewhere, especially in times like these. She's so 'fraid I won't go and do as she says, that she gis me extra wages to be faithful. The more I can prove to her I am faith- ful in servin' the poor, the more she 'proves ofme. I knowed you wus bad off heer; but I must go to one uther place. I've been to two a'ready. Finisheetin', keep this bottle and drink sum, cover up, and Ill cum agin.' 'God bless Miss Mary Ramon'-God bless you,' we all said; an' he open'd the door an' left." "Did he come again?" said Charles.  0O, yes; he cum agn, an' bro't blankits, an' more vittals, an' anuther bottle, an' some coles, an' it change the very are of the cellar. Cesar said the Lord answer'd his prar, an it look'd like he did." "Did Miss Mary Raymond send the man after the second time?" said Charles. Sen' him arter the second time I' She sen' him all the time. We'd a died hadn't it a bin for her. She was marster and missus and everything good to us all through the winter. We all got better, and went out and wurk sum; but it was mity hard to git anything to do; an' when we did, we got mity little pay.- But out of what Miss Mary Raymon' sent, an' what we got ,   "i6      Rw'HEL SOMERS; OR, by work, we help'd some in the Ifaburhood who was wurse off than we wus. Sum of these people is mity hard harted. I've been treated wurse than a dog. They wood look at me when I ax'd -for wurk-an' didn't beg at all-like I wus sum kind of a varmint. I was skeered at the feerce looks of thare eyes an' faces. I've seen Injuns in Massisipi, an' thay look'd like the angils Cesar talk'd so much about, in cumparisum. I've seed raccoons fitin' dogs that looked puttier. Some on 'um not only look'd like the debil at me, but they kick'd me; an'I 'just had to take it an' get off the best I cood. About three weeks ago the good man quit cummin.  Day arter day he nuver cum, an' we wunder'd what wus the matter. Cesar accordently found out he wus sick. He had 'sposed heselt too much, and his consecution fell under him. The nu man who went round didn't know us, an' we suffer'd mit'ly by it; but the first wun is up agin. He has bin here to see me, an' he has help'd 'um in the ole cellar agin." "Well, Julius, if I can stay long enough to see you well, and can spare you as much money as the abo- litionist took from you, perhaps you can do better in this paradise of the free blacks. You made a bad start before, and would, perhaps, like to try it over." "This place, Mars Charles, is a hell for niggers. I would ruther die on the spot than try it agin. For God's sake, let me go back with you. Ef it should please God, I wood like to live for evur on the ole plan- tashun. Ef you'll carry me back, you and marster may do what you please with me; an' I'll nuver leave - it agin unless you drive me off, an' ef you wus to do that, I'd crawl back an' beg you on my knees to'let   THE FATE OF THE UNION.        7 me stay."  "But, Julius," said Charles, " your liberty l what about that? You are free here; there you would be a slave." "Mars Charles," said Julius, "I'm wurse than a slave here. I'm a dog; treated like a dog; kicled like-a dog; an' thar's nobody to keer for me, or see justis dun me. I've been at the pint of deth, and the charity of Miss Mary Raymon' sav'd me from it. But for that, I would be now in the ground. Ef she hadn't sent help, my chatt'ring teeth would have bit my tung off-my blood would a freez'd in my body- hunger an' cold would a put me tuther side 'of Jor- dan' long afore this time." "Yes; but, Julius, I see some negroes in this city who seem to be doing well. They are well clothed, have plenty to eat, and, for auglit I know, are even making money." "Thare may be a few un um in that kundishun," said Julius ;." but thay are like the few blackbirds who 'scape the gun. They are more fortunate than the rest. Most on um is poor, lazy, miserable creturs, like I wus afore -you cum. Niggers here is like spec'lators. Sum few has a stray luck, but the mos' on um goes down to the botum, an' stay thar ever arturwards. Its all chanc e with um. Thay gits along spite of themselves. Thay- bow down and scrape thar foot to the white folks long ways wurse than the loest nigger in Massisipi does to the white folks thar. Thay are-free here, but thay ar not tho't as much of as thay ar in -the South. Thay can rise to nothin'. Thay are kicked, hated, spit upon, an' ar only freemen in the name of libity; thay have no libity in fac, only' the libity to live whar thay are not wanted, and whar thay have to give way to the white man. - That makes um wurse off than thay would be in the South; for thar thay are sarvants, no   "8     .  MHi S0MERS; OR, thar places, and are satusfi'd. It is better to be a sarv- ant, treeted well, than a freeman spit upon by every white 'man who chuses to do it. I'd ruther be a slave in the Souf, with a good' house and plenty to eat, than a free nigger here, under the tutn-up noses of the whites; and 'speshilly when to that! is added the misery of the want of somethin' to eat at all seasons of the year, and of the shiv'rin cold of the winter, without food, fire, blankits, or clothin' The munkeys, or ooramtangs is in heav'n here to what the niggers is. The Declarashun of 'Dependance may do here for white folks, an' not all, of them; but it isn't worth a chaw of backer to a nigger. That's my 'pinion of the principel. I don't b'leeve it wus eber 'tended for them, 'septin' for the niggers in Africa; and they wood cum to nothin' under it without somebody to keep umr from growin' wild in the wool." "Then, Julius," said his young master, "I understand you to say that you will go back of your own free will, and be a slave again in Mississippi?" "He Il he I Judiacunaryl Mars Charles, I want to start this minit. I'd be willin' to be sent upon the lightnin' of the telumgraf, ef I cood be sartin of droppin' down safe." "Well, Julius," said Charles, 'wI will take you badck with me upon the express con- dition that, if you-run away and come to the North aga'm, you shall. stay here for the balance of your life." "I agree to that conundrum, Mars Charles, with only one -'seption. I want to live as long as I can, that!s a sattin 'fac'; but, it's a 'nigger's ,right, as well as white man's, to su mmit suumside ef he wants to. The 'sep- tion XI wood make -is, ef I should want to try that ri'aidy, you'll let me cum to the Norf agin, where the sutmiStide cawhe spon 'complished,. without this nigger Ok             -  ' .   THEE FAT  E OF TEE U NIO N. " comittin' vimlene on heself by pison , or eny uther comittin viomlence on wa  y." J ulius followed this- perpetration of his wit with several hel he'sl and Charles, agree ing to hi "'septidn," left him for the present. CHAPTER XI. THROUGH his friend,  Clinton, he was introduced during the day to a number of gentlemen of the city, one of whom gave him a cordialand pressing invitation to be one of a party at his hous e on th e follow ing even- ing, Which he politely accepted W pass the in& dents of Charles Somers' stay is New York from the timeofhis conversation with Julius until the evening alluded to, with the mere mention of a visit to ir. Clinton's, which resulted in a kind and mutual goo feeling reated between that gentleman and hioexel- lent lady and himself. The assembly at the beautiful mansion of Mr. consisted of many of the elite of the city. Mass Ray- mond was escorted to it by Charles Somers, and Eb- ward Clinton was the attendant of the elegant, but artificial, Miss Adaine Eustace. A crisal observer could observe at a glance the characteristics of these two wealthy and magnifient young ladies.  They 'were both of nearly equal age, and hadeo yed al t he advantages which wealth and society could bestow, Mary Raymond's step wasgraceful and light, and in her face was commingled a beauty, sweetnes ande composure which, illanind by the heavenly lster %   ,[    :2 O       tr JaIrL SOMERS; OR, of her dark, bright eyes, revealed" the purity, benevo- lence and dignity of her nature. Hundreds of fair creatures thronged those brilliantly-lighted and spaci- ous parlors, bedizened with gems and diamonds, which sparkled like sunbeams dancing in golden vases filled with crystal waters, but Mary Raymond seemed to feel no want of costly ornaments to add to the attractions of her polished and queenly figure. While others, like birds of the eastern clime, arrayed in their ever- varying plumage, seemed to pride themselves in a variety and excess of costly decorations, she was satisfied with her simple but elegant attire, which, though plain, was fitted in the utmost taste, and ex-, hibited to great advantage the symmetry and beauty of her form. Charles Somers looked upon her with wrapt admiration and wonder.. He saw the consistency of her character, its exalted and inestimable worth. The parallel was perfect between Miss Raymond minister- ing at the couch of the suffering, and participating in the social enjoyments of fashionable life.  Charles mingled, as far as time and decorum would permit, with the gay throng of'both sexes; but his admiration of Miss Raymond was so complete, that it was an effort for him to seem gay and feel, contented, out of her im- mediate presence.  His attentions wereas devoted, and he sought her as a partner in the dance as often as his brief acquaintance rendered compatible with the rules ofetiquette, There was a beauty and grace in her movements when dancing that was beyond all com- parison attractive and winning. During the evening, Miss Raymond and Charles-were joined for a short time Ay Miss Eustace and Clinton, when both were seea inthe contrasts of their characters. "You have ,. ;' "*                  .    THE FATE OF THE UNION.      121  . kept quite within doors for some time past, Mary," said Miss Eustace, familiarly. "I have not seen or met wifti you for several weeks. You have lost a great many delectable treats in not attending the theaters and con- certs which have been so brilliant cf late." "I do not doubt I should have been much pleased had I attended them," said Miss R., " but I have lately spent nearly a week in the country, and have been quite confined by engagements at home since my return." "Miss Ray- mond is too much inclined to conceal - from her right hand what her left doeth, to let the world know how :: much of an angel of mercy she is," said Charles. "I suspected as much," said Miss Eustace. "Mary and I differ widely about the practice of charities. I do not object to giving alms occasionally to the poor, but it becomes burdensome to attempt: to cover the whole town with them. It is my opinion that the proper authorities of the city ought to look after the poor, and not leave them to the care of young ladies who have the means and should enjoy life. I am willing to subscribe something for them,but beyond that I do not care to go." ]" jut many of them, Adaline," said Miss Raymond, " are not taken care of as they should be, and suffer the very extremes of want." "That," said Miss Eustace, " is no look-out of mine. I am n3:o: made a guardian of the poor, and many of them suffer as they do because they learn to rely more upon charity than their own exertions.  If they were left to- - suffer more than they do, it would teach them the  4 - necessity of working, : all poorpeople have, and :' ought to do. They resoritto falsehood andevery kind of cunning to impose upon us, to get means to live upon, which they should obtain by their labor. I 6      - "k'   1-22    .ITlf sL SOMERS; OR, have had them to tell me often that 'they were starving, and suffering in other dreadful ways, to get me to open my purse. It was only a few days ago, that a ragged-looking, deceitful little girl told me that her mother was very sick, and her little sister was dying, and she had the assurance, in order to impose upon me, to beg me to go and see her mother. She knew I would not go, -and hoped by such a foolish statement to get a larger sum from me. I gaveher a dime, merely to gratify my own feelings, which she eagerly took, and then ran off as nimble as any child in the town." -"At what time and where did yot see that little girl?" asked Miss Raymond. "It was about noon, in the neighborhood of  on-street." ' I think," said Miss R., "it was the same child who, late in .the afternoon, accosted me as I alighted from the carriage at my mother's door. I immediately went with her, and found her statement to be sadly true, for her mother was very ill, and her little sister died a short time after I reached her miserable habitation, in a dismaltand loathsome alley." "Youdidnot go there in person, Mary:?" "I certainly did," said Miss Ray- mond; " and I shall ever rejoice that I went." Charles perceived that Miss Eustace curled her lip, -and assum- ed an-air of hauteur as she asked Miss Raymond this question, and received her answer. "I see Mr. coming this way," said Miss Eustace; "I have prom- ised to be his partner in the next dance. You must excuse me, Mr. Clinton," said she, 'I must not disap- ti pointthe dear creature, as hehas been imploring me to favor him for the last two hours, but I have been so constantly engaged with others that I have not been able to gratify him until now," and away she floated off, a gay and thoughtless devotee of fashion. "Miss   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      123 Eustace," said Charles, when she had left, " is a fine- looldking young lady, but she is certainly fonder of her- . self and her pleasures than all else besides." "I think she is decidedly handsome," said Miss Raymond, " but she was always a wild and frolicsome girl, as you now see her. She was a schoolmate of mine." "It would not be so objectionable," said Charles, " were she only wild and frolicsome, but I think she is decidedly sel- fish, and, I fear, even heartless. Surely,- were she otherwise, she would have been, in some degree at least, affected by your allusion to the death of the little girl." As Charles said this, Miss Raymond, in an undertone, observed, "Do not speak quite so loud, Mr. Somers; that gentleman just beyond you, rumor- says, was a suitor of Miss Eustace's.-- On dit that he was des- perately in love with her, and that they were actually engaged to be married, but I learn the engagement has been broken off." "Do you say they were actually engaged?" asked Clinton, addressing Miss R. "I have heard so," replied she. "The cause of difficulty between them you also heard, I presume," said Clinton. "I did not, sir," replied Miss Raymond. "Are you personally acquainted with him?" inquired Clinton.  "I know him only by sight. His name is William Mortimer." "He is very prepossessing in his appearance," said Charles. "Quite so," said. Miss Raymond, "and I have heard that he is a talented and polished gentle- man." Clinton became for a few moments silent and - thoughtful. In a certain contingency he had determin- ed to address Miss Eustace. The more he saw and heard of her the more the opinion-he had formed of  her character was confirmed, and the less scrupulous he felt in selecting her as the one by a union with whom he could save his father from inevitable pecuni, I.   124     -'HSIL SOMElS; ORE, :   ^ary ruin. His desire to know who Mortimer was, and "*, * what were his present relations to Miss E., originated in that high-toned sense of honor which would never have permitted him to interfere, by proposals for her hand, to the detriment of the claims of another, who had preceded him in seeking its possession. In. mak ing a civil contract with Miss E., for his father's benefit, he was anxious .that no one should suffer but himself; and while he believed that such a,man as he imagined Mortimer to be would gain by its loss, he was not wil- ling to be an intruder in so delicate a matter, even for his benefit. In such a matter as he contemplated, he wanted a clear field. As to future results, should he succeed in marrying Miss Eustace, they were to beleft to chance. he had-determined, in the accomplishment of his object, that nothing should be left undone on his part to make her life pass as agreeably as possible. If he could not love her, he resolved to hide his private disappointment and griefl and frame his features, his words, his life, to suit the peculiarity of his position. "Neither I   nor Miss Eustace," thought he, "could be in a   worse condition than thousands are who may originally have been attracted by what they supposed "' Wedlock forced, is but a hell; An age of discord and continual strife,' as Shakspeare has it, it does not follow, as he further ays, that 'the contrary bringeth forth bliss,' and is a pattern of celestial peace. At any rate," thought he, "however men and women are linked oryoked in mat- rimonial bonds, thousa'fds live together without love or esteem, and their lives flow on together, wile their hearts throb in isolation, not in happy union-in wretch.   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      125 edness, not in connubial bliss." During the evening, Clinton was introduced to Mortimer, and the mutual esteem engendered, ripened, afterwards, into friendly intimacy. Charles Somers also made his acquaintance, with similar kind feelings excited on both sides. But time hurries on. It lingers not to wait upon the tinkling feet of the fairy girl, or the airy footsteps of her gay partner in the dance. It flies like the wind, and bears upon its wing music's sweet and mellow strains. The bright assembly shone no longer in con- stellated splendor, but eyes, which had rivaled the light of diamonds, glittered on the streets which led to many diverging homes. Somers saw Miss Raymond to her home, and retired to a couch freighted more with thought than sleep. His mind roved o'er the bright scenes of the evening, and the varied characters who had composed the gay assembly. There were the gal. lant beaux, the charming belles, the stately matrons, the noble and polished men of New York city. But he saw in that, as in all similar assemblies, the vain, the selfish, the proud, the ambitious, the fickle, the envious and the jealous. He thought .that he saw there more "frivolity, more show, more artificial feeling, more free- dom of manner, than a similar assembly -in his own section would exhibit; but still, enough of all that was - worthy, high-souled, excellent and charming, to prove that men and women may be good, and gentle, and noble, north or south, or in any land where civilization has shed its genial, soul-lifting and refining light. He was delighted with the kindness which had been ex- tended to himself. Numbers, learning that he was from the South, had vied in their effortsto add in every way to his enjoyment. "These northern people," thought he, "are not so cold-hearted, after all, as I  *    126       ET'EsL SOMERS; OR, have so often heard them represented. They are kind, liberal and generous, bland ion their manners, and cer- tainly not wanting in courtesies to their southern brethren." Upon the whole, Somers was pleased, yea, delighted, with what he had witnessed and enjoyed at this brilliant coterie of New York fashionable society. "What a pity it is," thought he, " that these people and my people differ so much upon the great and absorbing question of slavery.  Many of them, doubtless, are honest in their opinions and prejudices against the in- stitution. Would that they could see it in its true light. I came- here with many prejudices against the people of the North, and, as far as I have seen them, I admire their energy, their skill, and their social bear- ing. To me, personally, they have been kind; but I cannot, must not foyet the wrongs they have done my section. O, prejudice! O, fanaticism I how have ye disturbed the peace of the South, and the good will of the free and the slave states towards each other I We are startled by words of burning hate, of stout defiance, of rapine, spoil, and ties of union broken and dissolved. Would that it were otherwise. Is there nothing that can resist the sweeping sway of passion-the delirious sentimentalism  of northern: anti-slavery? I pray Hleaven to aid us--to grant some boon that will charm the spirit of discord, and make us, from the great waters of the North to our utmost limits on the South, and from ocean to'ocean, a peaceful, reconciled and happy people." Perhaps the power of love was never more exhibited in -its influence, than upon the heart of Charles Somers. It was useless for him to hesitate as to-his true condi- tion. He felt that his whole future existence was wrappled up in the spell which Mary Raymond had   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      127 thrown around him. The light of her beauty and-  v  irtue was not like a meteoric flash that momentarily passed over his soul; but it shone on, day an d night, -with acrescent splendort. ie basked in it, and opened his heart to it, as the Persian does to the glowing sun. ' She was a magnet that attracted him to the northern- clime. His love for her neutralized his ill-feeling to the people of that section. If it did not overcome, in any degree, his devotion to the rights of the South, it restrained the feelings which had for years so estranged his affections from the North as to make him, not only indifferent to the Union, but desirous of its dissolution. It would be a great point gained, if the two people could be drawn together by free, pure, unselfish asso- ciations and affections. Prejudice stalks abroad like a monster of evil in the absence of such associations, especially when fed by false ideas and dangerous illu- sions. Patriotism eands of the people of the North to pause, to examine the point of difficulty, and to decide not upon untenable premises, but facts, argumentj and the sacred representations of truth. These cannot be seen under the baleful glare of fanaticism. Fanatic- ism distorts facts, fills the ind with errors, beclouds and corrupts the judgement, and gives to lies the pres.- cience which should belong to truth alone. It would be well, yea, happy for our couitry-for this land blessed above all others of Heaven-if the sentiment contained in the following lines of one of the best poets of the North could be realized in reference to the question of slavery: "Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again; The eternal years of God are hers; But error, wounded, writhes in pain, And dies among her worshipers."   128 Aa'M&L SOMBBS; OBS OCHAPTE/    xI/. :N'L y a week had passed, and but one day more remained before Charles Somers, promptedby duty, expected to leave the city of New York. Juius was informed, early the next morning thold himself ias readiness and Cesatr, wh rl  to aulius n he alled 4t hsnew quart          is'heahecalled ers, begged that he also might be al. lowed to return i them.  Somers having no obje. t/on to ths, it was understood hat they should qietly get on board the cars a the a oi^e then called upon Clinton1 tnte dtime. Charl near the dining hour. WIth Whom he remained till "Ibdo nou know, Olinton, said Charles, as he 1wa about to depart,  I shall see you more,  -leavefor the South. Take his purs   e as small con is^^rss5?^thi Pus s         -a o, tribution for the poor woman andher  chldren. Through Cesar, Ihave sent Something to the poof negrtes and the white man and woman who were with J'Uu pion the Welt  n     ;ta ie-r -'t Julius in the cellar where we found them. noonu,shall'call upon   is R'^U d This after. I shall be off for Afissi    1 and toensh rnorrov v ,sp the pleasure o again seeing- hou sha ll e h cannot sy, ans   .   ... i. n the So' , , ".. say,t answered. Clinton. icEf South . ,Your, nome rsie me r-'a --   *   emories of Qur ho,mnspire mo with the hmay ee you there in the chances of the future; but time, alone must prove therality. But sure/y, Charles, unle ss my suspicions are overwrought, there is a gentle tyrant here, whose charms will emtand you bacle to New TYorkagain." I donotnon, replied Charles, ,how   THE -FATE OF THE TUNION.     129 that-might be, were I to ask for her commands. Per-^' Ihaps she might bid me come."   "Good luck to you, at all events," said Clinton. "Smiles, success, happiness, everything desirable! You leave early," continued Clinton, "but -I shall try and see you off. If, however, I should fail to be there, farewell. Make my homage to your sister, and remember me most respectfully to your kind mother and father. Do not forget, also, to remember me kindly and sympathetic- ally to Lee." With these and other kindly words, the friends sep- arated for the time. Charles called upon Miss Ray, Ipond, in the afternoon, and found her at home. She received him with refined and characteristic courtesy, and entertained him with unaffected and winning affa- bility. -It was to Charles an afternoon of charmed converse, in which his sympathies became more warm and his heart more deeply interested in the fascinating being before him. He wished to talk of love, to reveal the secret devotion of his soul. . He felt restrained by a delicacy, natural to one so refined and polished as himself. His acquaintance with Miss Raymond was an occurrence of but yesterday, and the -result of a mere accident; but accident has been the axis upon which the fate of nations, as well as individuals, has turned.  An hour can give birth to love as pure, and strong and durable, as a week, a month, or a year. Two pairs- of eyes may exchange glances, and feel in a moment the attrahent power of sympathy. Besides, necessity--that law of the mind which teaches it to seek its highest happiness--impelled him by its resist- less power to guard against the hazards of delay. Miss Raymond-of whose existence, even, he was not aware until he saw her in the lowly house of suffering and 6e   130       ETHEL' SOMERS; OR, death-had risen like a new-born' star upon his vision. In its light he longed to live. Delay might steal the vision from his sightand leave his heart eclipsed. The thought, alone, swept like a transient breath of torture over the chords of his spirit. The sun was Pinking to rest, and warned him that the time-for decision had come. He thought a moment, and observed: "I leave early to-morrow for my home in the South. If your engagements will permit, and it will not be deemed intrusive, I should be happy, Miss Raymond, to call again during the evening."  "I shall be totally disengaged after tea, Mr. Somers," Miss Ray- mond politely replied, "and shall be pleased to see you." Charles, expressing his acknowledgement for 'her kindness, bowed gracefully and retired. It was quite natural that Miss Raymond should won- der why he- wished to see her so soon again, especially as he had called often during the previous week. She was pleased with Somers' manly and handsome ap- pearance; but more so with the traits of character which he had developed in their brief acquaintance. He was as frank and unaffected as herself; but that which most attracted her attention, was the noble benev- -olence of his nature. To these were added, the polish which education and good society had given to his manners and bearing. Female instinct is superior to man's reason: woman arrives at conclusions by a subtle intuition, which man can reach only by labori- ous-argument and reflection. Miss Raymond- did not infer that Somers was in love; her delicacy prevented a downright conclusion of that kind; but she saw in his manner, his looks, the tone of his voice, and the bent of his thoughts, that an absorbing contemplation had pos- session of his soul, and seemed to have some connection   TILE FATE OF TtE UNIO. t1 with hersel. This idea prepayee her, at leastnot to ithherself.         -b lufleaatthi be surprised should something ebe unf  olded at their next meeting out of the sual routineof merely polite association between the sexes Stillsheshrunkbao with that delcate sensitiveness which belongs to wii that . aelic         atio  of ^da . maiden modesty, from t    ohe ct a ionly of an idea, which, however natural, wa  o   onr the soft breat glance of the eye, a tone odf the voce, ry of a sigh. That same modesty made her suddenly conlude her toilet, as the thought 6 ashea across her mind that she bad devoted toit rather more than her usual time--that she was not quite as easy satised with the adjustment of her glossy blac hair, and the general arrangement of her dress, and was more solici- i tons in criticizing the representations of her faithful ou i nu s   licate emotions aaa interesting par- mirror. These    .        s   in love ticulars are, bowever, -haracte;ri of love or when or out of love, or merely ,      i..s o m !   Tremotely anticipating au ht conn eted with its doin ions, its triumphs,      its trials. Carlesometrse tc ;  not ffail to call at the appointed time. I( t      "s 'tis g  reater mystery in the art Of painting, to foreshorten any part Of all perfections, to be plain and brief." 3to, to^- ^ I     ss^^6^"'  :i i     We must ome to the point, then pass overalla WeM-Ust come to     the secret ' -  matters, an&let-the reader at once into the athis interview between oar gallant young southern and his northern charmer; but it is best in auintere ing" tgte  t t1te," such as this was, to let the pa speak for themselves. " Lov, IMiss Raymon-" aid Chaales, "is a my oheart free yfrom its 'ifluetcee at rious passion a            to in the next. become a captive to its h moment,   the n   132      E'TrhL SOMERS; OR, Do you think with me?"  "tHow should I," replied she, ,when I know nothing of its subtle power, and have never studied its mysteries and rites?"' "Ah ,true" saidCharles quickly. "I was equally ignorant of them until--; but, Miss Raymond, can you doubt its power to take possession of the soul, and enchant it with the speed of lightning?" "Novelists and po- ets have said so," replied she, ,"but experience alone can prove it in individual cases." "Would you be- lieve it, Miss Raymond, if a man of truth and honor were to aver that he had experienced its truth?" "I might notdoubt the sincerity of his belief," replied she, "and yet it might be a mere dream of his imagination. His emotions, so sudden and electric, might want the sta- bility of unchanging tenderness and devotion. Extremes are often too violent to last. The love-light of a moment --however bright and seemingly supernal--might soon pass off like the sweet dream of a morning. I could not venture a critique upon love so electric unless I were acquainted with the temperament and character of its subject, and the circumstances connected with his sud- den transformation." it Suppose, then, Miss Raymond," said Charles, "that he were ardent in temperament, firm ]m purpose, strong in faith, spotless in integrity, and constant as the sun. Suppose that such a one m an afternoon's walk, should see a beautiful being, of high station, ministering, like a divine priestess, to a dying .child, and a suffering mother, in a habitation open, to the bleak winds, tapestried with the weeds of mourning and the raggedness of poverty-whose supplications for help, for food to appease the pangs of hunger and sustain the last threads of life itself, had been vain until they reached her ears; suppose that her kneeling, form, her gentle and soothing words, her   THE PATE OF THE UNION.       3 sweet appliance of needed charities, should first have excited his supremest admiration; and then a sight of her lovely face, her heaven-beaming eye, should have transformed that admiration into instant love- the immediate homage of the deep affections of the soul-what criticism would you pass upon love like that?"Miss Raymond saw at once the drift of Charles' allusions; and that fact embarrassed her the more in framing a reply. But females, in a great majority of cases, are more composed than their lovers on occa- sions such as we are describing. Seeming, therefore, not to recognize' Somers' remarks as having a personal allusion, she observed in reply, "In a case like that which you have presented to-me, Mr. Somers, I would see but little reason to change the declarations made by me a few minutes since. The lover whom you de- scribe, might be influenced by his excited imagination to form an opinion of the lady beyond her merits; and even a few days might produce a change in his feel- ings." "Never," said Somers, with fervid eagerness. "Months, years, could not change them; were such love reciprocated, life itself could not change them. I am that lover, Miss Raymond, and you are the divine being to whom I have alluded. But a few hours are left me to remain in New York. I have been forced to choose between declaring my love now or at some future period. My confession may seem precipitate; but I can plead the peculiarity of my situation as my apology for making it, after so brief an acquaintance with you. Years could not develop your character more fully than I behold it; nor could they add to the deep fervor of my devotion to you. I go to-morrow, and pray you permit me not only to leave my heart in your city, but in your gracious acceptance I   1834      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, This declaration and proposal, produced a new phase in the mental existence of Miss Raymond. While several had sued for her hand, her affections had re. mained free and unengaged. In all her intercourse in the gay and polished circles of society, she felt assured that she had met with no one more worthy, more no- ble-hearted, more sincere and generous, than-Charles Somers, and her imagination pictured in him "A[ combination and a form indeed, Where every god did seem to set his seal, To give the world assurance of a man." Miss Raymond vainly attempted to conceal her blushes while Charles was declaring his passion. II find no fault with you, Mr. Somers," said she, " for pre- cipitancy in the generous proposition you have made me; but it is equally due to both of us that time should be taken for reflection.  The kind feelings which you profess for me may not last. Take with you, then, my sincere esteem, and be free to withdraw your proposition should they change. I cannot ac- cept your offer now, and when I say that, let me be as candid as you could desire,in adding, that it is one which any lady might esteem a compliment."  "I pray you then,"-said Charles, "answer me this: Will you allow me to leave it with -you for your consideration?"Miss Raymond blushed without replying. Charles, respect- ing the delicacy of her situation, did not press his ques- tion, but was consoled and flattered'with the hope that "She half consents who silently denies." He remained but a short time longer, having obtain- ed Miss Raymond's permission to address her by letter. They parted with warm words of love upon his lips,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      135 and kind expressions upon hers. Charles said, as he retired: "Angels attend theel May their wings Fan every shadow from thy brow; For only bright and lovely things Should wait on one so good as thou." CHAPTER XIII. SOMERS reached the depot on the following morn- ing, half an hour before the time for the cars to leave, and was surprised, as he alighted from the omnibus, to see a noisy, bustling crowd at a short distance from it. A number of white persons and a few blacks had closed around some one in the center. Impelled by curiosity, he neared the placei and soon perceived Julius and Cesar endeavoring to free themselves from the rabble. It was evidently an abolition mob, who had assembled to prevent their peaceful departure. With a fearlessness characteristic of him, Charles walked firmly to the spot and inquired into the cause of disturbance. A man with a fierce look and voice of passion said, "Here are two black freemen whom a slave hunter is about to force back to- chains and tor- ture in a southern hell." This conversation attracted the attention of others, and Julius, seeing his young master, appealed to him, as did Cesar also, to rescue them from the mob. "Who interposes to detain these people?" said Somers, in a firm and resolute tone of voice. '"I do," said one who was standing near Julius. "By what authority," said Somers, "do you assume   plied he, "are the friends of these bu,cks; the friends of liberty; and we cannot--will not stand by and see these poor creatures dragged back in chains to suffer the tortures of slaveryrom which they have escaped." Where are their chains?" said Somers. "Ask them if they go of their own free will or not." Julius and Cesar both spoke up and said, "We want to go back home; we are dreadful sick ofthe Nrth. ForGod A'mighty sake let us 'lone, and let us go back what we was livin an' doin' well. We is hardly able to trabble now from the 'fets ob Ae Norf." "They talk thus," said another one of the crowd, "because they are afraid to speak their real minds before this mnan fromh the'South."' "Now you know, Mister Hervey," saidJulius, "that Hhas wanted to go back to 'asisipi eversense I've bin here. I ant afeerd of ars Charless upon that p'int. He told me to stay or go, jist as I lik'd. The fac' is I had to beg him afore he'd let me go."  Ah," said tervey to the crowd, " if you only lknew these southern tyrants as I do, you ould t let these poor devils get back there to be hewed and hacked'as I have seen them in the South." Somers became :too much exdited to conceal his indignation and denounced tervey's statement to be false and slaniderous. "You,'! said he, " enticed Julius to leave "tfyouo fair and deceitful I I ere almost in a dying condition, and only take him backat his own urgent request. Besides, Iwoul in- re whehe  r you have as yet obtained his money of the agent to whom you said you gave it?,  "iYo have rightened your former slave to tell a falsehood, sd  erv"ey, "and add to that the insult of insinuating   THE FATE OF'THE UNION.      137 that I kept his money. This, gentlemen," said he, " is the way with these southern rascals,and among them all there is not a greater one than this man's father, except, perhaps, himself." With that he charged his followers to take the negroes back; "And now," said he to Somers, "touch them if you dare." Somers' fine black eyes emitted the fires of scorn and defiance, as he said, "They shall not be taken away. Here, Julius, Cesar, come to me!"But the in- furiated crowd having seized, was pulling and forcing them off, notwithstanding their protestations against being thus detained contrary to their will. Somers followed them, not with any hope of rescued without assistance, but with the view of ehdeavoring to reason, at least a portion of them, out of the unjust and un- warrantable restraint to which they were subjecting the persons as well as the wills of Julius and Cesar. But he might as well have tried to reason with the whirlwind, or chain the lightning. The difficulty [  had attracted the attention of numbers of persons who were going upon the train, and others who had gone to the ddpot merely from curiosity. Among these were several southerners, of whom Mortimer, the gentleman referred to in the last chapter, was one. Somers, finding these persons sympathising with him, proposed to rescue the negroes by force. This proposition being warmly acceded to, the southerners dashed at the abolition rabble, who made but little pro- gress in getting off Julius and Cesar,- owing to their resistance. Their assault was impetuous, but without any deadly intent. Somers plunged into the midst of the mob; seized upon Julius, who, with Cesar, lent what strength they possessed to the efforts of the southerners. What they lacked in numbers they made   138     - ETHEL SOMERS; OR, Up in impetuosity and determination;- and after a desperate effort, ucceeded' in rescuing the negroes from the possession of the abolitionists. Hervey, be. coming desperate, fired a pistol at Somers, as he 'as making for the cars wih Julus. The ball took effect in his left shoulder, causing a severe and excruciating wound. Hervey having been pointed out as the one who fired the pistol, Somniers drew a revolver from his pocket, and at the first fire, tervey fell, pierced to the heart, and died almost in an instant. The other Southerners having similar weapons; threatened to fie upon the rabble gang, Who, at the fall of Hervey, made a precipitate retreat. Just at this moment Clin- ton arrived, and was shocked at the pallor of Charles' face, who inmmediately fainted from loss of blood, and the severity of his wound. The whole of this affair, from the approach of Somers to the catastrophe, oc- curred within the space of fifteen minutes. Somers was inmnediately conveyed, as gently and tenderly as possible, in a convenient vehicle,- tothe residence of Mr. Clinton. Mortimer abandoned the trip he was about to take, in consequence of this sad affair, and the interest he- had taken in Somers during their very brief acquaintance. At the request of Clinton, he ac- companied them to his father's residence, and a room was prepared for him, that he might be near his new and unfortunate friend from the South. It was with great difficulty that the ball could'be extracted, and a succession of fainting fits exhibited the extremedanger of his case. He became easier during the afternoon and'-night, from the use of opiates and other agents to quiet his nervous excitement. The skillful and ex- perienced physicians who attended him thought, dur- ing the night, that the chances were against his re- ^SCASL   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      189 covery; and their opinions were strengthened by the symptoms which succeeded. During the next day, Charles observed to Clinton, "I feel, my friend, that my time is short for this beautiful world. Consult with my physicians, and let me know their opinions; for, before I die, I wish to say a few words to you, and to see Miss Raymond." Clinton, with a brother's love,- delicately informed him that his medical attend- ants considered his case hopeless, and thought it best for him to reveal quickly all that he wished to say and leave for his friends at a distance. Having heard this announcement with calm serenity and firmness, he ex- plained to Clinton all that had passed between Miss Raymond and himself; and, in conclusion, requested that she should be informed without delay of his wish to see her once more before the grave should close over him. Clinton informed Somers that Miss Ray- mond was aware of his condition-had frequently sent him messages, and inquired after him; and had even desired to see him, but that his physicians Had, until within a few hours, thought it best thdht9i!' should not be disturbed. " I will now, however, send immediately for her." "Do, I beg thee, quickly," said he in reply.  When Miss Raymond heard, shortly after its inflic- tion, of the serious nature of Charles's wound, the news was so sudden and so appalling that it drove the warm blood from her heart and made her head reel with a painful, fearful dizziness. Then she felt, in all its full- ness, the deep impression which he had made upon her heart. His face beaming with manly beauty-his words so soft and low, and full of sweet enchantment, rushed upon her memory, and almost overwhelmed her with excitement and dread. Why do you look so pale,   "O       H rtSL. SOMERS; 0S, Mary?" asked her mother. "Oh,'motherl you know what I have told you. I did fondly love that gentle Southerner. Oh, Godl how. I feel the stroke. My heart aches. I have known him but a few days, and I feel for him the tenderness of loving years. What shall I do? I would go to him this moment and soothe his- sufferings. I would tell him. that I love him-that I will always love him-that I will be his in lifee and in death."  "Mary,"said her mother, "be more calm It is the lot of life to meet with accidents like these. Mr. Somers is young, his constitution is good, and he may recover. I hope, for the sake of both of you, that he will." When' Mary received Charles's messaoe, that he wished to see her, she trembled as if it was the knell of death.  Hurriedly she made her arrangements, and soon, with palpitating heart, she entered his chamber. Ohl What a meeting.  How  changed he wasl how pale and ghastly his handsome face! Charles ex- tended his white and trembling hand; a tear was stealing down his manly cheek. In spite of her efforts to the contrary, Mary Raymond betrayed her heart- stricken emotions.  Neither could speak for some moments.   Clarles saw, at a glance, the state of her heart. It was a proud consolation to his -spirit, even in its sad extremity. "Dearest Mary," said he, "I beseechyou permit me to addressyou with that tender appellation.  Ohl how I have longed to rest my weary. eyes upon your sweet face. I could not Will- ngly die without seeing you again, before the world shall fade for everfrom my vision. When Iief you last -evening, I was so happy, so hopeful I Life was full .of new charms for me. Oh I how sad the thoughts that I  shall soon leave you for ever. No9 I hope not N I I oent   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     141 for everl There is another world; may I meet you there I Mary, if I could hear from your sweet lips that you were not indifferent to me-that you could have loved me-that you could have willingly been mine, it would smooth my path to the tomb, and give - me a happier rest in the cold grave." As a pale-lily, when the chilling dews rest upon it, or the bleak wind breathes on it its cold breath, droops its lovely head, so Mary Raymond bowed hers beneath the weight of blighting grief. But it was due to Charles-to her own heart-that she should answer his dying words. "Oh, Charles! this is a sad and solemn hour. I feel that formal ceremony would be cruel now. You understood me.. Need I say that delicacy prompted me to delay what I knew would be mjy final answer to your vows of love?" "Your words, sweet angel, color my path to the tomb with rays of heaven. I have one more thought which presses on my heart. A man has fallen by my hand. But I am not a murderer. When the ball pierced my shoulder, I had an instinctive sentiment that it would be fatal. I almost knew it. A thought of you-of living to make you happy--had taken possession of my whole moral being. Alas that thought which had made earth a paradise, was blighted in a moment by the deadly fire of that man. It was without cause, totally uiprovoked by me. My sou was momentarily on fire. Heaven was in a moment blotted from my sight. I was robbed of life and you. Words cannot reveal the desolation of my spirit., I was maddened in heart and brain; and, in that moment of despera- tion, I took the life of the murderer of my happiness. Will you forgive me, and cherish my memory as pure as though that deed had not been done?" "Hwill,"   "2      iE"HKL SOMERS; OR, said Mary. -"It shall place no stain upon your character; none more than rests upon a seraph's wing. "Then," said Charles, "Iam content. I shall die happy; and shall look out from the portals of the skies -for your. coming, when it shall please our heavenly Father to call you to be an angel in heaven as pure as you are upon earth." A pale cloud passed over his brow, and he was silent. Mary Raymond took his hand in hers, and gently pressed her sweet, soft, lips to his. He unclosed his eyes to Iook once more-the last time--upon her angel face, and smiled as though a dream of bliss had passed upon his spirit. Clinton gently bore Mary from the room and'to her home. When Charles recovered from his momentary pros. tration, he thanked Clinton, and Mortimer, and his physicians for their kind attentions. He then asked Clinton for a few moments' interview alone. "I have dear Clinton," said he, " but a few more words to say. Ethel loves you. God grant --that. you and she may yet e one. This I know is a delicate subject, and I leave it with this single allusion, and only this addi- tional remark. I have loved my section-with the ut- most devotion of my soul. I have loved the Union. God grant that the differences which estrange the peo. ple of the North and the South may be removed, and hat this happy Union of States may be perpetual. Bear to my beloved and honored father and mother, ,nd to my dearly beloved-sister Ethel, my fond and levoted memory in the/ hour of dissolution. *Remem- er me most affectionately to Lee, and tell the serv- ats, young and old, that I did not forget them-when e  was fast ebbing away. I beg you to see that Julius lal be sent home, and Cesar accompany him to hisl i    TI E FATE OF THE UNION.   1.4L master in Louisiana.   May you' be prosperous and happy. And now my friend, farewell I!" Having also taken leave of Mortimer, he desired that: they would leave him to a communion with his God. Somers spoke no more. Clinton and Mortimer   ' remained near him to watch the last flickerings of the lamp of life. His earthly existence was rapidly draw- ing to a close. Amidst spells of occasional delirium he was seen to smile. He muttered low the names of Mary! Ethel! Father I Mother! and spoke of some who had long preceded him to the'tomb. Thus he con- tinued until the pendule told the solemnnhour of twelve, when his bright eyes were closed in endless sleep, and the pale hue of death rested upon his marble brow. His journey of life was over. It closed while the freshness of youth and the blush of manly pride com- mingled their hopes and their hues in the beauty of his young life. His fair, bright bark had been dashed violently upon a rock, but his brave spirit had glided, with Christian resignation, from the shores of time to the festal heaven of the good and the pure. Arrayed for the tomb, his face was -surpassingly striking. It was grand in the commingled majesty of its dignity, its beauty, and its smile; and thus he lay "Like one who draws the drapery of his couch About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams." And, "Here may we muse, at this lone midnight hour, When thoughts steal on us softly as the tread Of ghostly forms, from yew or cypress bower, Around the gloomy mansions of the dead." His immediate surviving friends grieved as they thought of his distant home. How desolate it -was soon to be. One seat which no one could fill was to   "4      ETHEL SOMERS; O0, be vacant there. A dark shadow would soon rest upon the hearthstone. The voice which had been to loving ears sweeter than music, would be heard no more, and he who was as dear as the hope of heaven, had gone down into the darkness of an untimely grave. Many kind-hearted and good people of New York city waited upon the funeral rites of Charles Somers, and feelingly remembered his virtues and his melan- choly fate. Clinton had written to Colonel Somers, informing him of the unfortunate occurrence, the day Charles received his wound. On the second day he wrote again, and gave him an account of his true con- dition, and on the third, the day after his death, it was his sad duty to detail to him the circumstances con- nected with that heart-rending event. It was to him the most painful duty he had ever performed. His relation to Ethel, and his recent pleasing visit to Wood- lawn, added a poignancy to the task which filled his heart with anguish. He well knew that this dreadful intelligence would plunge the family into the deepest grief-that nothing he could write would save their hearts from pangs which none could estimate but those who had experienced them, yet he endeavored to re- lieve them of their sting by words glowing with affec- tion, and breathing the utmost delicacy and tenderness of sympathy and-sentiment. CHAPTER    XIV. MARY RAYxMOND was so deeply affected by the death of Charles, that she neither saw company nor went into society for several weeks. Indeed, a change   became so essential to her health, that her mother re- tired with her to a country seat, where they were, in a great measure, exempt from those visits, which, to one in her situation, are often positive evils instead of ben- efits. Clinton also retired from the city, and remained at Mrs. Howard's (his aunt's) for more than a fortnight. He had been there but a few days, when among other letters Whic h he received, was one from .Ethel, which read as follows- - EDWARD CLINTON, ESQ.: "Esteemed and Respected Sir: Your letter of--- reached me on yesterday. It is equally due you and myself, that I should reply to it without delay. Con- siderations of delicacy forbid any other reply than that imposed upon me by its decided tenor. Your immuta- ble convictions constrain me to decline an acceptance of the offer which you so generously make me. In  doing so, permit me to assure--you of my friendship, and of my ardent desire that your happiness through life may be complete. "I remain sir, with sincere respect and esteem, E"ETHEL SOMERS." This letter brought to Clinton the death-knell of his fondest hopes. In his reply, he expressed the pain it . occasioned him, and reciprocated warmly and feelingly the desire she had so kindly declared, that he might be happy in the future. He referred in the most tender and pathetic terms to her brother Charles, and said that nothing had ever grieved his heart so much as his sad fate, save" the. necessity of bidding her adieu for ever.  May angels," said he, " attend and guard you, and heal the wounds of your bleeding heart, under its bereavement at his untimely fate"  I         ' 7 .   "6       RVmL. SOMERS; OR', Clinton returned to the city with the view of closely prosecuting his legal studies, which he had for some time neglected. Mortimer, who had returned from a visit to Washington, whither he'had gone on business, met with him almost as soon as,he reached the city. "The country," said he to Clinton, "seems not to have agreed with you; you look thin and pale, have you been sick?" "No," replied Clinton; "but I have been horribly oppressed with gloom ever since the mournful tragedy which so much afflicted us some two  i weeks ago. It has constantly preyed upon my mind, and I find it difficult to relieve myself of its contem- plation." "Somers was a noble fellow;" said Morti-  ' mer. "I mean no disrespect, Clinton," continued he,  "but I feel anxious to get away from a section where   such deeds of blood can be committed in utter viola-  tion of all friendly comity and the rights of southern men. This sad case ought to produce a universal ex-   t citement and indignation in the South. ]How do you imagine we can get along with your people, when such  ! infamous deeds are not only committed by a portion of  t them, but the felons are permitted to escape, or if brought to trial, are universally acquitted?" It is wrong," replied Clinton, "horribly wrong; and I do hope that such evils will be put down by the good sense and justice of our people."  "You may rely Ipon. it," said Mortimer, that unless a change shall take place-and that soon--the cords which bind the two sections together will snap asunder, and they ill bel  come two people--it may be, deadly foes. In this case, Somers inflicted summary vengeance upon the assassin; but that could not preserve him. He is in his grave. lhe whole South is insulted, wronged and outraged by Eis act of a foul and bloodthirsty abolitionist. It is   THEY FATE OF THE UNION. .-   147  calculated to defeat the ends of the Constitution, and- the law. What is the law worth to the people'of my section, when they cannot come to reclaim their fugi. tive slaves without exposing their lives to the fury of lawless mobs? I speak thus to you, because I know you are a reasonable man; but I could not utter such sentiments in the presence of some of your people' without exposing myself to a fate similar to that of the generous and chivalrous young man whom we both lament so much. Abolitionism must be checked, or it will put this Union upon a death-bed. The people of the North should know this truth. They can save it if they will. It is in their power to make it stronger -more durable than adamant. They can make it run its course of glory with the stars of heaven. I beg you to excuse me, Clinton. I feel deeply upon this subject. It has been brought home to my inmost soul with more potency than ever, by the murder of Charles Somers. Have the people'of the North no patriotism, no conscience left them? Will their deep-throated railing and unjust invecti-ves against my section nev- er cease? Will they wantonly doom our country to death--the Union for which their fathers and our fathers fought and bled and died? Do they wish to wake up the black tempests of civil war, and the ma- lignant fires of sectional hate? Abolitionism gambols with the solemn destinies of the American Union. It is in politics, what bigotry is in religion. It is the most dangerous licentiousness to which the liberty of this country has given rise. It was, for a time, a small speck in the far distant horizon; but now, it hangs like a black pall over the northern heavens, and we behold its lightnings and hear its thunders. The threatening calamity is enough to startlepatriots in every section /?:?   "8       E'atEL SOMERS; OR, of the country. The time has come for the cry, 'All hands save the ship I' the breakers are just ahead, and the winds and waves of this terrible fanaticism are driving it rapidly upon them. -Some of our more san- guine patriots seem not to see the danger. They are affected with a moral cecity. They seem to regard the ark of liberty as imperdible, and possessed of sufficient strength to outride the storm. They are deceived, Clinton-woefully deceived. We have heard its mut- terings, and seen its black clouds flying furiously for a time; and a calm has come, and these statesmen have concluded that the danger is at an end. An impene- trable mist hung over the noble vessel-an awful silence has ensued. Many have reposed confidence in the pilot who directs her. He is .a northern man- gallant-national-true to the Constitution-to the Union. He, I am proud to admit, has faithfully per- formed his duty to every section; but alas I you have seen that the storm has revived and dashed on like a de- mon, uttering its awful thunders and flashing its elec- tric eyes. How is it now? The pilot has been shorn of his power. Your section, which bore him to the most exalted station in the world, has refused to sus- tain him in his lofty patriotism; still, he remains firm, and I verily believe would sink" to the bottom before he would forsake the gallant, glorious old ship of state. He believes, that the best way to keep her off the breakers, is to adhere to the land marks of the consti- tution; and he is right. Would to God your people would back his glorious efforts. If they do not, all will be lost "I While Mortimer was thus addressing Clinton with the solemn earnestness of a patriot' who loved the -Union, but at the same time loved the rights of his   THE FATE OF THE UNIO].    - 149 own section, and the rights of every section, the latter received a card from Manfred Lee, announcing his arrival in the city. "I have listenedbto you, Mortimer," said Clinton, "with profound interest, and will be more than pleas- ed to hear you further at a convenient time,' but hereo is a card from a cousin of Charles Somers. Doubtless the death of our friend has brought him to the city,- and I beg you to excuse me for the present." "Cer- tainly," replied Mortimer. "There are other matters upon which I am solicitous to converse with you; but this card calls you to the sad duty of meeting the kins- man of our murdered friend-do hasten to him." The meeting between Clinton and Lee was, in the highest degree, affecting to both. Clinton related mi- nutely all that had passed from the arrival of Charles Somers in New York, to the close of his funeral cerea- - monies. His soul was pierced with new pangs when Lee described the effect at Woodlawn of the withering intelligence of Charles' wound and' subsequent death. "Colonel Somers," said he,- "was absent from home when your first and second letters were received, and did riot return until the day on which the third letter reached the family, announcing the sad termination of Charles's case. Language can convey no idea of the agony which rent the hearts of my aunt and Ethel, at the reception of the first letter, which was greatly in- creased by the second, and seemed to settle into despair at the account given in the third, of his dissolution. I hope never again to witness a scene like it. The suc- cession of my aunt's and Ethel's screams and shrieks were perfectly heart-rending. Both, on several occa-  sions, were so overcome as to lose all consciousness and fall inanimate, and become as pale as death. At   150       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, times they would call upon Charles, in tones so plain- tive and tender, as to subdue the hearts of those pres- ent to a degree of sympathy and pity almost beyond endurance. It seemed to me, at times, that I could almost hear their heart-strings crack in twain. It was evident that without relief, my aunt, particularly, could not stand the pained tension of spirit which seemed to be breaking the very fibers of her life. My uncle--though suffering an intense moral agony of spirit-was more composed.  Indeed, on my aunt's and Ethel's account he forced a degree of composure which his mortal natuire would have been incapable of, but for his love for them. But I will not trouble and pain you with a further description of those harrowing scenes. At the request of my uncle, I have to thank you, in his name and that of his family, and other kind- hearted friends, for your and their never-to-be-forgotten attentions to him in his last illness." Clinton was so overcome by his emotions-the pain- ed memories of the joys of early love; of hopes departed for ever; of a home once so happy, but now desolate; of hearts so full of happiness, now shrouded in mourning; of his young friend, just entering into life, with the dreams of love which promised a sweet return, and a heaven of earthly felicity-now still, silent, pulseless, pale as the frozen snow-drop-that his brain whirled with a bewildering dizziness. "Ohl Lee," said he, "this is a combination of trials which leaves me in my own moral anxiety scarcely aught to say, but that we must all look to time to soothe our troubles, and to heaven to palliate and relieve them. My heart is with you; with the suffering friends at Woodlawn; and with my pure and noble-hearted friend in the grave." But. we will not weary, the   d I       THE FATE OF THE - UNION.    1g1 reader with the details of all that passed. Lee remain- ed but a single day in New York. The remains of Charles were exhumed and taken by him to the dear land-so loved by him when living-accompanied by Mortimer, who had been introduced to Lee by Clinton, as one of those friends who ministered with untiring devotion at his dying couch. We will follow them to Woodlawn merely to see the coffin opened, and wit- ness for a moment the scene which it presents. Ar- rayed in black the mourners stood by it, and saw his beautiful features unaltered, save in the color of the brow and face.. He had left them in the fullness of health, with its roses upon his cheek; he returned to them smiling in death and draped in its pale hues. We pass overthe new agony of loving hearts; the gathering of the friends of his family and his youth; and leave him resting in the sleep of the grave, beneath the yew and the cypress, to wake no more until the skies shall be illumined with the light of the Son, and his attend- ing angels.   w   CHAPTER XV. CLINTON sought relief from gloomy and melancholy reflections in his legal studies. He found in them no waters of Lethe; but they served to occupy his mind, and that, of itself, is a shield against the ever-intrud- ing and painful memories of the past. By degrees he again mingled as erst in society, and partook of its pleasures. The world was not, however, what it once was to his eager and hopeful spirit. Many among the young, situated as he was, imagine that in the bright  152       ETUJlL SOMERS; OR, goblet there exists a charm for the sorrows of the heart. But Clinton's mind-was too well balanced to be allured by' that to the madness and horrors of vice and dissipation. He, on the contrary, gave up his thoughts to fame, and resolved to make his chosen profession the stepping stone to the gratification of his new im- pulses. Day after day, and night after night, he pored over his books, to learn the laws which, like- secret springs, hold society in proper checks and balances, and, at once, govern man and protect him in his rights. He studied deeply the constitutions of his own country, and the policies of states in every age of the world. The structure of society; the dependence of man upon man; the links in the chain of being; all afforded him deep and constant reflection, and ministered vastly to the developments of his intellectual faculties, and the enlargement of his views of the social relations. A few months' assiduous study prepared him to think more closely and reason more wisely than before; but during this severe struggle of intellect with the diffi- culties of the law, and in unfolding the hidden mys- teries of the social organism, he was occasionally in- terested (not in heart, but in purpose), to accomplish the contemplated object which in a certain contingency he had determined to achieve. His father's affairs re- mained unaltered; and love, duty, his pledged word, urged him to seek the means of his relief. He fre- quently met Miss Eustace in society, and had often visited her at the house of her uncle (Mr. Conway), with whom she had lived- since the death of her' parents. Mr. Conway and his wife were childless, and with them, Adeline Eustace was faultless. Her-wishes were their wishes; her opinions were their opinions. If she wished to go to a party or a ball, they were *               ,*   T'HE FATE OF THE UNION.     153 ready to yield their assent; if she desired to have a particular company at their house, the company came. In a word, she was supreme with them. Gay and thoughtless; indulged in everything; she was the mis- tress of her purposes; the spoiled child, and the idol at home. Her parents' had died while she was a mere girl, and her uncle and aunt had never controlled her wishes, or checked her inclinations. In- fact, they thought she could do no wrong, indulge no improper desires or fancies, and were so completely wrapped up in her being, that she was, in their estimation, the ne plus ultra of virtue, prudence, beauty, and perfection. The character of Miss Eustace may be summed up in a few words. Shakspeare must have thought of just such a being as she was, when he he wrote: "Dumb jewels often in their silent kind, More than quick words do move a woman's mind." She was enamored of wealth for its parade, and glitter, and pomp. She thought of it as it ministered to her wants, her vanity, and self-love.' While others were proud of their treasures for the conveniences, the quiet and independence they afforded, she was proud of hers for the parade they enabled her to make at home and abroad. Hence, Miss Eustace was always seen bedizened with an excess of fringes, ribbons, and laces, artificial flowers, and feathers of gay-plumaged birds, dashed with gems and diamonds. Her fondness for these extravagances grew out of her self- love and per- sonal pride. Though pretty, her beauty- was only skin deep. That is always the case with the fair creature who loves self supremely, and prefers the glitter of gold to the brighter beauties of mind; who takes more pride in the flowers which deck her tresses, 7*  sa  154       'NTEL SOMERS; OR, thai those which illumine the soul, whose colors are caught from the sacred affections and virtues. Her form' was beautiful but the tegument of flesh was a beautiful covering for a mortal temple, in which palpi- tated a heart full of levity, frivolity, and folly. Her thoughts were devoted to scenes of gay enjoyment. The lighted hall; the music which invites to the dance; the ball; the rout; the fashionable watering places; the theater, of which she was a regular habitue; in a word, the glow and gleam of fashionable life, constituted the world to her. Within their precincts she felt sur- rounded by enchantments; out of them    she was troubled with ennui, discontent, and fits of gloomy impatience. But she seldom experienced these de- pressions, for when she was not flirting abroad, she was in the midst of gayeties, which her lavish enter- tainments created at the house of her uncle. She was surrounded by beaux who were as thoughtless and giddy as herself. Some, of these, who followed in her glittering train, had pined, and wooed, and wasted vainly, weeks and months, lured on by languid eyes and coquettish smiles, which no one knew better how to use than she, as snares to catch the hearts of empty- headed fops; and some, too, whose minds of nobler caliber, were dazzled for-a time, by seeming virtues and gentle qualities, assumed to crown her heartless tri- umphs. In the moment when success seemed sure; when, flushed with hope, they dared ask for the hand which seemed yielding to their grasp, they shrank back beneath her look of mild surprise, her cruel and deceitful frown. Thus chilled, they lingered on be- hind, and finally retired, for others to take their places, to be, like themselves, sirenizedl encouraged, and repelled. Clinton saw at a glance the difficulty of 3  **   , I *      THE FATE OF THE UNION.       15 the undertaking upon which he had determined to embark. Keen and shrewd, be played his cards to suit the character of the game. Heart was out of the question, and hence he was exempted from the dan- gers to which blind and idolising love, subjects its votary. Coolly he calculated the chances of success. To win a coquette, one must play the counterpart. Her vanity must not be wounded, yet the hero lover, while playing nicely the character of a gay deceiver, must eschew prayers, and vows, and sighs, and all the symbols of desperate devotion. Out of a thousand women, nine hundred and ninety-nine (and some critics of human nature have said a whole thousand)i whether vain or simple, artificial or sincere, amiable or ill-tempered, faithful or fickle, melancholy or gay, co- 'quettish or frank, young or old--look forward to the time when fortune or fate shall launch them in a bark of some kind, chained to some one whom they indivi- dually shall look up to (sometimes they look down to lower thelr titles 1) and call husband, lord, master, or tyrant! Miss Eustace-was a woman, and had thoughts, feelings, and sympathies, like all other women, (mak- ing due allowance for differences of ideas,) upon the subject of marriage. She was fond of admiration, and delighted to wind a lover up into the webs of co- quettry, to see him flutter and flounder when caught, and especially, when his eyes were opened to his true condition. But still she had a secret mental reserva- tion, that when she had satiated her cruel appetite in the torture of a sufficient .number of victims, she would risk matrimony, if not victimization. Clinton falrly lost sight of his original character in the desperation of his feelings, and the excitement of the chase. Time after time he plunged in among the crowd of dandies   TrH1ii SOMERS; OR,  (some northern writer, we forget who, has styled New York the metropolis of dandies, and therefore we hope to be excused for the use of the term), who, like pale stars, formed a milky way along the track of Miss Eustace, and added another color to the -kaleidoscopic changes they exhibited in her luminous train. She ad- mitted to herself, in one of her musing moods, while thinking of -Clinton, to use the language of Beau- mont, "In these ears of mine, These credulous ears, he poured the sweetest words That art or love could frame." It was singular that she should speak of her ears as credulous; but it only proved that he had made some inroads in her usually cold and unapproachable heart. With those words, however, he played a wild, some- what inconstant, part; and this excited her fears that he might tack about and fly off like a tangent from the radius of profession. She redoubled her arts, and when Clinton found that her jealousy was excited, he again fed her vanity with sweet words enough to pre- serve a balance in her good will; and thus he practiced his artificial love-tricks, until he found her lending a willing ear to his melliloquence, and exhibiting a relenting disposition at the free, subtle, and sometimes sentimental declarations of his passion. We must not, however, weary the reader with lengthy details of Clinton's artful wooing of Miss Eustace. The task was difficult of accomplishment, but he proved himself a man in the Shaksperian sense. "That man that has a tongue, I say is no man, If, with his tongue, he cannot win a woman."   Of all conquests, that of winning a confirmed coquette   is the most difficult; and it can be done only by the tongue. A handsome face and person, such as Clinton had, may avail something in the strife of spirit; but, if the tongue falters, the day is lost. All of Miss Eustace's heart that could be won, he did win. She even betrayed, on several occasions, some slight emo- tion, and now and then a tinge, which resembled a blush. Some disciple of Lavater might have spent a week wisely and profitably in divining whether it was the result of love, or a mortification of her pride at the conviction that she-the heretofore unconquerable coquette-had yielded some of her outer fortifications. The conclusion had flashed upon her mind that if she had to be'married at all, she could, perhaps, do no better than to wed Edward Clinton. With all of her gay, coquettish thoughts and feelings, she was not destitute of the comprehension that enabled her, with- out much mental exertion, to believe, that a woman is safer in the hands of a true gentleman, than one of those pseudo heroes who are nice to a nausea, and eclair8 only in the follies and fashions of the day. Clinton was reputed to be talented; in person he showed ithimself; and no one doubted that he would be wealthy. Besides, although an Apollo in person and merits, he had descended far enough to come within the reach of Miss Eustace's ideas of a fashion- able gentleman. She did not doubt that it would be an easy task to lead him into the mazes of gayetyand dissipation, which were so enchanting to herself. He had cantered into her magic circle, and though he seemed elevated above the sweetly-scented and punc- tilious fops around her, he had betrayed sufficient cultivation in the refinements of fashion to give her the highest hopes that in the course of time those  158       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, scenes and pleasures which suited her taste so well, would be all the rage with him. Then, to this hopeful change, would be added the native dignity and flash of intellect, which, while they would not detract from her pleasures and rule, would throw a halo of glory over her brilliant pathway. Clinton had seen, for. weeks, that she expected a proposal; but he. had art- fully held back until the moment when he knew that victory was certain. At this identical point in this game of chance (oh, Love I! we leave thee nestling in the flowers of sympathetic hearts I) it is difficult to say which of these artificial beings was the victim of the greatest delusion--Miss Eustace, who imagined that Clinton would be argil under the supposed influence of her charms; or Clinton, who had so far lost sight of her true character as to fancy that she was actually in love with him. Be that as it may, the line of difference in some way was broken down, all barriers removed, and Clinton and Miss Eustace were betrothed. As courtship is the prelude to betrothal, so is that an introduction to a closer alliance. Hence, as is-usual on such occasions, a day-was set apart, to. crown the contract at Hymen's altar; and here we dr& the cur- tain, for a time, upon this singular but not uncommon consummation, in which the fates of two youthful beings, of opposite sexes, seemed in all probability bound together, while their hearts beat with no con- genial sympathy. We convey the reader back to Woodlawr. A few weeks have passed since Charles Somers was placed in the family cemetery, by the side of a brother and sister, both of whom had died in early youth. When the grave has closed over those whom we dearly loved, and they lie still and dreamless in its dark vaults, the   THE PATE OF THE UNION.   .  -159 hearts of the living experience then the tenderest emo- tions. No spot is so sacred as that which encloses the forms of those who were loved when moving and pulsating with life. Every fault is forgotten, every virtue clothed in newer, brighter, holier colors than before. We think of them as at peace with the world all at rest. The mind sighs and moans over their tombs, and our spirits sigh and mourn with it. Affec- tion plants over them the sorrowing willow, the melan- choly cypress, the beautiful and enduring cedar, and decks them with roses and hyacinths and other mystic. flowers and vines-the emblems of purity, virtue, and affection. Mrs. Somers and Ethel spent much of their time at Charles's grave, planting and watering these emblems of love; and Colonel Somers often joined 'them, while superintending the erection of a new building upon the spot on which-his late residence had been. reduced to ashes. Miss Otway was a frequent visitor at Woodlawn, and she and Ethel had already become much attached to each other-and greatly more so since the death of Charles, drawn mutually by the strong affinities of sympathy for each other's sorrows. Miss Otway, before the news of Charles's death had been received at Woodlawn, imagined that something was preying upon Ethel's spirits; but the t gloom which overshadowed her after that event made her lose sight altogether of the thought. Indeed, she had attributed it to her supposed natural temperament, for their acquaintance had begun only a short time previous to Clinton's arrival at Woodlawn, and no one had even intimated to her that any sympathy, or attachment, had existed between 'them. So natural was her present sadness, that she imagined the. exist- ence of nothing else to becloud -her fair brow and take   160       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, the hues of health from her lovely cheek. Lee, how- ever, shortly after his return home, had intimated a double cause for -her melancholy appearance. He, like all other true lovers, had wearied in waiting the experiment of Miss Otway's self-reliance and discipline of heart and character in her new vocation, and had actually-confessed this love. Miss Otway was not sur- prised at this, for,- without having profoundly studied the character of the human heart and its secret sym- pathies, she saw that he was deeply. interested, either in her- prospects in life, or her affections. - His un- wearied and  delicate attentions-the sighs which escaped him, in spite of his efforts to conceal them- the glances of his eyes, through which the emotions of the soul are read more plainly than words can por- tray them-the tones of his voice, which were as gentle as if intended for the ear of a spirit, added to a con- straint and even discomposure of manner, so different from what it was in his association with others, were evidences of his affection, so plain, that even her exceeding modesty could not prevent an inward con- templation of them. Miss Otway found no reason in the pressure of circumstances for accepting the hand of Lee. Had her parents been livingj and she sur- rounded with all the comforts and affluence of the home of her youth, she would have seen no reason to object to the offer of one so good-looking, intelligent, and worthy. Hence, after the usual prolongation of courtship, attended with its embarrassments and blush- es, his offer was accepted, and in three weeks there- after, they ere united in the holy bonds of matrimony by the -Rev. Mr. Chester. This was a union of love, which  miet with the cordial approbation of Lee's parents and friends. Out of respect for, and sympathy   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      161 with, the feelings of Colonel Somers and his family, the wedding was private, having been witnessed only by the members of three or four families connected by the ties of kinship and the most intimate association. So recently had Miss Otway been engaged to -take charge of the academy, that after her marriage she con- tinued her services until those of another teacher were procured. - This happy union with Lee placed her in more immediate connection with the family of Colonel Somers, and she took as much interest in the fortunes of Ethel as if she had been her own sister. Lee in- formed her of all that had passed between her and Clinton, and Ethel freely communed with her upon the subject of her former hopes and present anxieties. The cause of Ethel's and Clinton's estrangement, she saw at once, was a matter of sectional feeling, not of, the heart. It was an anomaly, she 'thought, in the history, of human affections and attachments. It seemed strange, odd, almost unaccountable. So far as she had thought upon-the subject of slavery, she, too, had considered it an evil and a wrong,"but she had never for a moment thought of objecting to Lee because, he was a slaveholder, and she could not divine, the motives which impelled :Ethel to decline the hand of Clinton because he was opposed to slavery. It seemed to her that it should rather have been a recom- mendation. Still, since her residence at the South, her views had undergone some modification.  She had looked in vain for the evidences of that groaning and sluggish misery which she had been told characterized thet'slaves of the South. She saw nothing of the clanlking chains and lingering tortures, which fanatics Jand soi disant philanthropists had represented as palsy.   ETHjiL SOMERS; OR,  ing their limbs and wasting away their strength and lives. Instead of being the inhuman monsters they had been described, she saw southern masters and their slaves bound to each other by ties of mutual depend- ence, interest and good will. The master loved his slave because he was his property and his dependent. Interest and humanity combined to secure his protec- tion and comfort. She found the slave happy and contented with his lot, free from want and care, and tasked more lightly than the free laborers of the North. She had on several occasions visited a neighboring church, and was, the first time she witnessed it, sur- prised to see a part of the church appropriated to these down-trodden slaves, where, well-dressed and orderly, they participated in the worship of our common Father in Heaven, joining with the whites in singing anthems to his praise, and in the holy sacrament of bread and wine,'the symbols of the body and blood of his-Son who died to save the world. In going to, and return- ing from church-at home, on the plantations of their respective masters-at work in the fields-at home with their families-everywhere, she saw them cheerful, full of life, fond of the amusements of dancing and singing, in which they often engaged, and in short, freer from care and happier than the "helps" at the North. Still, she was not an advocate of the institution of slavery. She saw man the slave of man, who came and went at his bidding, and was subject to his will when it did not contravene the benignant statutes for the protection of the slave. The black man in the South, however contented and happy, was not a free man, and that consideration alone, even in the absence of all the supposed cruelties of slavery, was enough to   THE FATE 'OF THE UNION.   prevent Miss Otway from sanctioning its existence. She could not see how one portion of the human family could be lawfully held in bondage by another. That was an enigma which she had not been able to solve, nor was it wonderful, when it had puzzled the brains of many strong-minded and deep-thinking men. It is vain to deny that good men-strong in intellect, and pure in purpose-have studied the relations of master and slave, and arrived at the conclusion that it -is un- warranted by the laws of kindness and the inalienable rights of men to personal liberty and freedom of will. But we pass over the subject for the present, having merely introduced it here to show the feelings and position of Mrs. Lee, previous to an interview with Ethel, which will soon bewitnessed by the reader. CHAPTER XVI. AT the proposal of Mrs. Lee, she and her husband, on a bright day in the latter- part of the charming month of May, made a visit to the family of Colonel Somers. They were temporarily living in a small house distant but a few hundred yards from the place of their former residence. It was situated upon a pretty eminence, surrounded by a'growth of original forest trees, whose spreading branches, bending slightly be- neath their heavy green foliage, waved gracefully to and fro, fanned by the gentle and balmy breezes of that lovely season. Near this house was the summer. bower upon the purling stream to which allusion was made in Chapter Seven. As we desire to treat upon   1M+    'ETHEL SOMERS; OR, those events alone which are essential to the object of our story, we shall not detail to the reader all that was said and done by the respective parties whom this visit brought together. It was a meeting of affectionate hearts, and tears were freely shed when allusions were made, even remotely, to one who was not there in his accustomed place, to cheer the hearts of the living. In the afternoon, Ethel and Mrs. Lee loitered for a time at the bower to which reference has been made. "This," said Mrs. Lee, " is a lovely spot. As often as I have seen it, it seems at each successive visit to pre- sent some new beauties which I did hot see before." "Yes,?' said Ethel; "it is a sacred one to me. This bower was erected uiinder the superintendence of my dear brother Charles, and he aided me in decorating it and the pool with the vines and shrubbery and flowers which add so much to its attractions. That fountain, which cools the atmosphere around with the glittering spray of its falling waters, was also a conceit of his. The green grass which borders the edges of the rivulet for some distance above and below, and the honey- suckles which bloom so beautifully over it, were :also placed there by his hands. He used 'to call me the Naiad of the stream, and ithis the Naiad's Bower. It is a hallowed spot, dear Cousin Emily, because it is so intimately connected with his memory, and has been made somewhat more so by the vision which presented itself to me some weeks ago, while I was sitting- on that mossy seat over which it is erected." "The vision!" exclaimed Mrs. Lee. "Do explain yourself.   You surprise me by speaking of having seen a vision here." "It is nevertheless true," said Ethel; "and to relieve your anxiety, I will describe it." She then, detailed the scene to which allusion was xk -     THE FATE OF THE UNION.      -15 made in Chapter Seven. It was, in substance, what Clinton had dreamed when sick with fever at-The Cot- tage, near New York, when on a visit to his aunt, Mrs. Howard. Mrs. Lee was so astonished and excited at the relation of this singular occurrence, that she looked around in every direction, as if expectant and fearful of its reappearance,  But the winds sighed in the branches of the trees-the sun shed its dissevered and dancing beams in the amber-colored waters of the stream, and nature in its beauties-its green draperies and sighing whispers-was undisturbed by aught super. natural or mysterious. "Surely, my dear Ethel," said Mrs. Lee, after 'a few moments' silence, "you were mistaken. Perhaps you were asleep, and dreamed that singular Apocalypse." "No," said Ethel, "I was awake, My consciousness was complete.  I saw it evolve out of a seemning- silvery mist, and rise up in the full stature of a beauti- ful woman. It seemed a combination of the real and the spiritual, yet the outlines of the face and figure were perfect.; I could not have been mistaken.- I heard its voice distinctly. It floated to me like a soft, sweet sound from the land of dreams, or time long. flown away; yet there was Ahe figure. Its -dress was-a ail very, dreamy, transparent white. It seemed as though- it were a garment of the ancient days; yet it was graceful, flowing and enchantingly becoming. The face, as I have said, was singularly beautifl,:yet with- all its loveliness, it seemed to bear the impress of long time upon it. It was pensive, thoughtful, -but smil- ing. The eyes were like the light of stars--bright, holy, but shining as if through a white translucent: cloud. As it finished uttering what I have stated-to you, it retired as it came; dissolving away like mist *         g .wa  "e   166      E'T1BL SOMERS; OR, until it could be seen no, more. . I was as wakeful then, as now; and remember with clearness, the emo- tions of fear and awe with which in perfect silence I gazed upon it, and listened to its musical words." a Have you," said Mrs. Lee, " related to others what you have said to me?" "To no one," replied Ethel, "but my father, mother and brother."  "What did they think of it?" asked Mrs. Lee. "They seemed to entertain an opinion similar to yours. My father finally concluded that it was the effect of a trance-a species of waking dream." "And such, dear Ethel," said Mrs. Lee, "I think it must have been," "Noth- ing more, you think?" said Ethel. As Ethel said this, Mrs. Lee saw a blush rise in her cheek, like the delicate fading red in a rose nearly white, and irnmediately di- vined the cause. It was a token of Ethel's lingering love for Clinton. But knowing, from the notes which had passed between them, that all negotiation of a ten- der and delicate nature was at an end, and' being un- willing to say aught which might keep alive in Ethel's bosom the feelings which had fondly nestled there, when, perhaps, they would only add, finally, to the bitterness of her disappointment, she said in reply, "Dreams and trances, my dearaEthel, are like flashes of lightning-evanescent light-which linger for a mo- ment -and pass away for ever. They may haunt us for a time; but it is best to remember them only as spec- tral and- illusive images, which mean nothing, And can only deceive and betray us." "I feel deeply, "said Mrs. Lee to her husband, as they were returning home, "for our sweet cousin Ethel. It is quite appareht that the- death of Charles is not the only thing which preys upon her spirits. .  .  .                 .o   -s-a V^ vAd j. UJJIUN. 167 That is enough to make her very sad, but added to her other source of-mental pain, it is not surprising that she should look so pale and melancholj." Mrs. Lee then informed her husband of all that Ethel had related to her. It was the first intimation that he had had of that singular trance or delusion. "It is evi- dent," said he, "that her feelings towards Clinton must have been of a deeply impressive nature; for this trance occurred before she received his letter to which she replied, declining his offer of marriage. Ethelb friends must exert themselves -to divert her mind from so many despondent contemplations; and I hope, my dear Emily, you will devote as much of your time as possible, to aid in effecting that object. "You may rely upon my doing so, my dear husband," said she, in reply. "If Ethel were my own sister, I could not feel for her more than I do. Her remarkable beauty particularly that of her almost enchanting eyes, won me to her the first moment I beheld her; and every word and act of hers since then, has so charmed me to her, that her condition keeps me in a spell of painful emotion. We must contrive to geti her to come and spend a portion of her time with us. I think your sister Isabel and I could, by persevering efforts, change she channel of her thoughts, and thus in some measure cheer her drooping spirits. With all her gentleness she is high-toned, and possesses much pride of feeling. Now that her affair with Edward Clinton is at an end, it may not be very difficult to arouse that latent pride of character, and make her dismiss him  from  her thoughts."  "I warmly approve your suggestion," said- Lee. We will visit them soon again, and urge her to come with us. The only difficulty in the way at pres- ent, will be her reluctance to leave her mother, who is -             - !         .-  '-    168      ETHEL SOMERS; OB, almost as much depressed as herself. But wecan pi- vately inform my aunt of our object, and get her to insist that she shall come for a short time at least." This kind purpose was, in a few days, carried, out, and Ethel accompanied them to their new home; for Lee) shortly after his marriage, removed from his pa- ternal home to his owis on a neighboring plantation which he had purchased a short time previous to that event. If sorrow could have been plucked by the toots from Ethel's bosom-if disappointment could have been deprived of its sting-neither would have continued to disturb and lacerate it while remaining at the house of Manfred Lee. Mrs. -and Isabel Lee, like ministering angels sent from the skies, strewed in her path the richest and tenderest offerings of affection. If her looks or words had melancholy meanings at times, they would tell. her that the Lord knew best who' to take from the trials of earth, to rest and bliss in heaven-who to try by the ordeal of affliction. Mrs. Lee was a Christian in profession and practice, and her int-ellect&and heart were both elevated and softened by the highest cultivation and the tenderest sensibili- ties. "Ethel," said she, " when the secrets of Provi- dence shall be unrolled to our enlarged capacities- when you shall be a daughter of the skies-whatever you maynow think and feel, and however much we may, and ought to loathe the crimes of our race-you will then see: the wisdom, the mystery, and mercy of Gds dispensations. Learn to yield to His holy will. You are mortal, and can but feel the pangs of bereave- ment and the pains of disappointment; but you should find relief from both in a gentle, patient, and hopeful submission to the will of your Father in Heaven." At other times, when Ethel was more composed, and the - R *'* ,  H es   ETHE FATE OF THE UNION.       169 least gleam of sunshine was seen amidst the clouds of sorrow which overspread her beautiful brow, Mrs. Lee and Isabel would, converse upon more cheerful subjects, read to her from the pages of some pleasing book, and entice her -to walk amidst the flowers and groves, to enjoy the sweet beauties of the one, and the green summer glories of the other. Ethel fully appre- ciated their soothing attentions, and her heart leaped back to all theirt gentle kindness. The reader will remember that Mortimer accompa-a nied Lee, when he returned from New York, with the remains of Charles Somers. During his brief stay at Woodlawn, he was smitten with Ethel's spiritual beauty. Indeed, no one could behold her without emotions of admiration and interest. Some are never so much attracted by- ayoung and lovely creature as ! ^she was, as when sorrow contends with youth and - health for the roses upon the cheek. He saw 'that the former had triumphed, and that the roseate hue had given place to the lily white. But the contrast between her mourning dress and the pale face only added to the interest he took in the sorrowing beauty. From the time he left Woodlawn, to the period just alluded to, her image had been impictured in his memory. He had thought of her in his waking moments, and could often say, in the beautiful language of a poet, "When Sleep's calm wing is on my brow, Arid dreams of peace my spirit lull, Before me like-a misty star, That form floats dim and beautiful." Mortimer (a southerner by birth) was a young -man of warm and generous feelings, and of superior na- tive intellect, -which had been cultivated to the-highest   170       EtMi]rL SOMERS; OR, point of polish., He was refined in manners, and de. voted in his attachments to the land of his birth and the institutions and fortunes of its people. Allusion was made in:Chapter Eleven to a rumor that he had made proposals of marriage to Miss Eustace, which she had declined. It is due to himn to state, that this rumor was untrue. He had met with her in New York, and was, for a.-brief time, attracted .by her ele- gant carriage and appearance, and paid her some marked attentions; but he soon saw the defects of her character; and if he had entertained the idea of address- ing her, it was only for a very brief period of time. Miss Eustace did not lack personal beauty; but he pre- ferred th6 graces of mind and charms of the soul, and these she lacked, at least in a degree essential to win his love. With this brief explanation, we proceed to state that from some cause, either the goodness of his heart, and his desire to look in upon the family whose heart-strings had been so severely shocked, to see what effect time had had upon them, or a secret wish to behold once more the pale young star of beauty which- had haunted his imagination, even in his dreams, or both, he had turned from his course of summer travel, since leaving his New Orleans home, to call upon them. He met a kind reception at Wood- lawn, such as the native hospitality of Colonel Somers and his family, added to their grateful recollection of his kindness, would naturally afford him. -Indeed, they had pressingly invited him to call and see them, -  .... should the chances of the future take him in that di- rection. We shall not stop to inquire whether chance or fortune, or his own will, directed him to Wood- lawn, but there ,he was, and there he desired to be. Spending but a few hours with Colonel and 'Mrs.  .   '.  TEHE FATE OF THE 'UNION.     17 Somers, he excused himself with the statement, that having but a day or two to remain in the neigh- borhood, he would call at Rosehill .to see them there, and congratulate his friend Lee, upon having' blended his destiny with one so worthy of his warmest devotion. We pass over the ceremony of meeting, as something which takes up time and space, and fatigues the reader. Mortimer met a warm and cordial recep- tion from Mr. and Mrs. Lee, and was pleased to see, as he supposed, some signs of greater quiet and calm- ness in Ethel's feelings.- Indeed, urged by gratitude, in addition to her sense of true politeness, when asked for, she met him with a 'subdued and pensive, but winning smile.  All that the reader can be interested- in, in this visit, can be summed up in a few words. Mortimer was more captivated than ever, and in bid- ding Ethel adieu, he left many tender and lingering thoughts behind. , CHAPTER XVII. THE gentle Mary Raymond, after a stay of a few weeks, returned to the city, from the country residence to which she retired after the death of Charles Somers. Her seclusion in the country had not restored the hap- piness which she had lost. The even tenor of her peaceful life had been darkly interrupted. Time, in its recent flight, had obscured the light of her happi- ness, by dropping from its dark wing the baleful dews of grief and disappointment upon the hope which had newly illumined the path of her young career. It has been said that the same wing of time which bears mis. fortune to us also bears them off. The poignancy of  172..      THEL SOMERS; OR, our grief to-day is blunted to-morrow, and rendered tolerable in a few weeks, or months, or years, at farthest. Such is the case with the great mass of life's bubbling troubles. It is well for our race that tears may be dried, and bitter griefs removed, by the soothing opera- tionp of time. -But Mary had not been drifted to a sufficient distance upon its ever-rolling waves to forget that hope had created expectations only to deceive, leaving her cheerless and sad amidst the wrecks of anticipated bliss. She therefore returned to the city, almost as sad as when she left it;" and unfitted for the gay pleasures of fashionable society, she devoted her time to her mother, whose health was evidently declining, and to those benevolent pursuits which had afforded her so much happiness in the past, and were now doubly useful in diverting her mind from its pain- fully engrossing contemplations. One of the first things she did, upon her return to the city, was to visit the poor woman whose wants she had relieved, and to whose condition we alluded in a previous chap- ter, Mary/ Raymond had, before retiring to the coun- try,. provided her with a new home in a more respect- able part of the city, and had aided in procuring her an abundant supply of work at more reasonable prices than she had obtained before her severe illness. This woman's name was Matilda Norman. She was born in Northumberland county, England, a few miles from Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Her father was a peasant, and she, at the age of eighteen, was married to John Norman, a respectable young-mechanic, who lived in the town just referred to. Her education, in a parish school, had been scanty; but possessing, naturally, a good Understanding, she had improved herself by reading nd satudy at home. Her husband was C poor   ' JTHE FATE OF THE .UNION.         1 but respectable young man, who had also been taught the common English branches in a parish school. With this brief allusion to her early- life, we present her to the reader at her new home, plainly but decently furnished by the munificence of Mary Raymond. Already her appearance had been greatly changed. When Miss Raymond called- at her -dwelling, she was engaged in sewing upon some work which had been sent her by a lady who had promised Mary that she would aid her in that way. Mrs. Norman no longer looked like one whom the world -had forsaken and left, with her three young children, to starve. It was impossible, for reasons which will appear to the reader, that she should wear a cheerful- aspect. But her face, however thoughtful and sad in its expression, had assumed the usual appearance of a woman in mid- dle life, who onlyr felt the cares and responsibilities of providing for her children by her personal toil. There was, on this occasion, an appearance of composure and independence about her cast of features, which she had not exhibited before; but still she seemed as grateful to Mary Raymond as at any former period.  Her two eldest children came in from school. What a change in them!  They were plainly but decently clad. Their faces were clean and bright; and one who had beheld them when Mary Raymond first found them, almost starving and dying, would never have supposed that they were the miserable, ragged little creatures who looked at the passers-by as beings of a superior race, of whom they were almost afraid to beg a loafof bread to appease the gnawings of hunger, or a'pittance to purchase a  few coals to prevent their mother and them- selves from freezing to death in the depths of winter. Now  they were cheerful andsreally happy; and   as   174      ETrrEm, SOMERSk O ^ they came in their mother raised her spectacles to the edge of her neatly bordered cap, to behold them. A smile spread over her pensive features, and tears of gladness moistened her eyes as she said, "These dear children and I, kind Miss Raymond, owe, I solemnly believe, the preservation of our lives to you." Mary's heart, softened by her own sorrow, was in a condition to yield before the scene which presented itself, and she mingled hier tears with those of the grateful mother. "I am more than glad to see you, my ever kind benefactress," said Mrs, Norman, "for I knew that you would aid me in securing a legacy which has been left me by a relative who recently died in England. A countrywoman called to see me, only two days since, having been at much trouble to hunt me up, to tell me that her husband had received a letter, in which he was asked if my husband was living in New York. The writer informed him that a brother of my husband, who had lived and died a bachelor in a distant part of the kingdom, had bequeathed to John Norman two thousand pounds sterling. I knew that you would assist me in taking the proper steps to obtain this' fortunate bequest." "With all my heart I will," said Mary Raymond; "and I do most heartily congratulate you upon thfe good fortune which has overtaken you. You may re- member that two kind gentlemen called to see you when you were so ill. You-are indebted to their generous Contributions, added to what little I have done for you, for your present comparatively comfort- able condition. One of them you are already aware is no more. The other lives in'this city, and I know will attend in person to this-business for you."   THE PATE OF THE UNION.     17 When Mary Raymond returned home, she addressed a note to Edward Clinton) asking of him the kindness to call and see her on a matter of business. He im- mediately complied, when she related to him what Mrs. Norman had told her. Clinton, with generous ardor, undertook the matter, and the result was, that in due time, this heretofore unfortunate widow was placed in possession of the funds which secured a happy competence for herself and her children. But we will now present, in substance, the brief story of her life, as she related it to Clinton and Miss Raymond when they visited her together. CHAPTER XVIII. THE ENGLISHWCMAN'S STORY. "ABOUT three months after my marriage with John Norman, my father incurred the displeasure of the Lord of the Manor, on, whose land 'he had lived for several preceding years. I know scarcely anything of the tenure by which he held the few acres upon which he had lived since about the tenth year of my age. I heard him and my husband converse upon the subject, and use the terms which explained its nature and the conditions upon which the occupancy had been allowed him, but I am unable to explain them. Both of them thought my father was treated with great: cruelty and injustice, in being turned out of house and home, with no place to go to, and destitute of the means of sup- porting my  mother and two brothers. At the request of my husband, they came and lived withI us, in New- - *  ETHEL SOMERS; OR,  castle, and occupied one of the two small rooms of the house which my husband had rented at the time of our marriage. My father spent several weeks in trying to obtain another rural situation, but he failed in doing so, mainly, he thought, because his lordship refused to give him a recommendation, without which it is very difcult for a poor peasant, when leaving one situation, to procure another. As a last resort, rather than depend upon the uncertainties of such work as he could obtain in town, or tax my husband's generosity for a living when his means were so limited, he obtained a situation for himself and my brothers at the coal mines. One of my brothers was fourteen and the other twelve years of age. They complained bitterly of the hardships they endured. About three weeks after they com- menced working in the mines, my father was attacked by a complication of ailments-rheumatism, cold, pains in his back, and side, and head, which prevented his' working at all. This complication of diseases increased so rapidly in violence, that he breathed his last the tenth day after he was taken ill. My mother was deeply afflicted at his death, and was anxious that Joseph and Caleb should quit the mines, where they were exposed to work in mud and water fourteen hours of the twenty-four. But my father, who was ignorant of the excessive hardships attendant upon working in themines, had apprenticed them to the proprietor until they should arrive at the age of twenty-one. My mother's anxiety on their account Was of short dura- tion, for she, too, took sick-and died. '"Desirous of bettering his condition, my husband concluded to move to London. I parted from my poor brothers with a heavy heart, making each of them a small present of money, which I could ill afford. I   often thought, when I beheld the condition of the poor in London, that perhaps they were, after all, better off than thousands of the wretched inhabitants of that city. I may say with truth, that in the neighborhood in which I lived, more than a hundred :persons-men, women, boys, girls, and young children-died of fever and other causes, within the first year after our removal to London. Whole families were swept off by pesti- lence produced by the filthiness of their habitations, their want of food and clothing, and the necessity which compelled large numbers to crowd into small and in- commodious rooms. I knew a poor woman, who had not tasted a mouthful of food for twenty-four hours, who had to return to her home, after spending half a day in vain to get a place in some poor house, or to obtain relief from some charitable establishment for herself and her starving children. She came up-to me, as I stood in my door, a little after sunset, and begged me, in the name of God, to help her. 'How?' said I. 'What can I do for you ' 'Oh, it may- be that you can spare a morsel of bread to save my children from dying of hunger ' Fortunately my husband came up at the moment, some earlier than usual from his work, and he took some provisions already cooked, and went with the poor woman, for I could not leave my chil- dren, three in number, the eldest of whom was but five years old. When John returned, he seemed depressed, but at the same time his countenance had an expression of secret gratification. 'How is it with them, John?' I inquired. 'The Lord have mercy on them,' said he; 'we are rich, happy, blessed, in com- parison with them I have often groaned in 'spirit, Matilda, on your account, - and our -children's, but it seems:to me that it would be sinful to complain, after 8  .    178       XflTUR SOMERS; OR, /   s      - . whatiI've seen,- It- is well that the weather is still com- fortably warmd; that poor, woman's children are nearly naked. None of them have recently been sick, and yet they look as if they had just arisen from fever of the worst kind. The eldest, a girl, is ten years old, the next eight, and the third six. Her two youngest children have died within a short time. It would grieve you to the heart if you could hear their sickly, whining voices.- They reached out their hands for some of the bread, as if they were suffering from palsy. The youngest boy tried to raise himself from'the naked floor, on which he was lying, but could not. He gazed with his weak, sunken eyes upon the bread, reached out his little, trembling hand, and as he grasped it, fell over upon his side, and half doubling himself up, began to eat it, and looked as if the long expected relief had come at last. It was pitiful to see how this child would raise the bread to his eyes and gaze upon it after taking a mouthful, as if the taste of- it was not sufficient to satisfy him. Poor child I how beautiful the. bread looked.- 'It was sweet to his famished taste, and pretty too.' John said to me, 'Matilda, you must prepare some- thing more. What I carried was sufficient for a single meal for them in their present condition, but they could have eaten much more. I promised the poor woman I would call again before bed-time, and, if you can spare them, I will take an. old blanket or two, and a couple of chairs.' "Dukes and lords, duchesses and ladies there were in abundance, in London, and others also of great wealth, who fared sumptuously every day, and dr eo out in their fine carriages, with liveried servants; but I suppose they were too great, too high, perhaps too proud, to think of the thousands of starving poor in the mis'   ITHE FATE OF THE UNION.      1  erable lanes of London. Some of them, I was told, were philanthropists, who subscribed freely to convert the heathen, and relieve the sufferings of the poor negroes in this country. John told me some of their committee people asked him to subscribe, to aid in sending missionaries to this country to help the aboli- tionists to free the negroes and relieve their sufferings. I suppose he would have given something if he could have spared it, but he told them that what little he could sparey he intended to give to the' poor at home, who were, perhaps, as bad off as the poor negroes in America. He said these very people refused to give to the poor at their own doors, when raising money for charity abroad. Two of this poor woman's children died from the effects of long want of food, and after that, sonie people took her and the remaining child and carried them away. What became of them I know not, for neither of us ever saw them again. But oh I when winter came I It freezes my 'blood, even now, to think of what I saw; and John told me there were thousands of cases in the city of London as bad as any that I saw. I saw, with my own eyes, not less than ten or twelve persors in a single room, huddled together without fire, shivering from intense cold, and suffering indescribable tortures for want of food. The floor was rotten, and the wind whistled and poured in utpon them through cracks in the wooden walls. On the floor in the corners were parcels of scattered shavings, which served them for beds; and the Lord only knows how they succeeded in getting through a single night alive, with no more covering than they appeared to have. Many of these wretched people were, exposed, from the leaky roofs of their houses, to cold rains and, snows, and in some instances, were actually found dead s .    -,4 ,     180       ET'HEL SOMERS; OOR, in their rooms, wet with the rain andc whitened with snow, as well as with the hue of death. "About a year and a half after we had been living in London, a collier called at our house and asked for my husband. I told him that he would be at home in a few minutes, as it was already the hour when he usually came home to dinner, and invited him to a seat. I saw that Ihe looked serious, but he did not inform me of the object of his visit. As soon as John came, he stated that he had promised Joseph as soon as he got -to London he would call and see us, and then for the first time informed us that Caleb, my youngest brother, was dead. - I felt severely shocked at the news, but more so when he told us the cause of his death. He began by saying,-that a collier's life was at best a hard life, but there IWere cruelties practiced at the coal mines which but few people were aware of. 'Joseph and Caleb,' said he, 'as-other boys at the mines, were com- pelled in many cases to work upon their knees and sides, as the openings are so narrow and low they can- not stand upright. I have known them to work in thisrway for many hours at a time. The superintend- ent in thieir section of work is- a man of mean heart and character, and when the boys complained-of pains in their sides or backs, he would sometimes have them severely whipped. For weeks at a time they were not permitted to go out into the open air, and cramped up as they were, amidst mud, and dust, and dirt, often with water trickling upon them, their sufferings were almost intolerable. About two weeks ago, Caleb be- came so weak that he ceased to work, and he was so severely flogged that I was afraid it would take his life. It having become apparent that he was incapable of- labor for the time.' being, he was moved from the col- ^   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      181 liery. A fever came-on which terminated his life on the following day. Joseph is still at work, but he looks wan and dejected, and I don't think'he can last much longer, unless he is moved from the mines. He not only digs the coal, but he-has to drag it out from the pits without being able to straighten himself, and thus he continues) to labor from ten to twelve hours a day. He has already grown one-sided, and his looks indicate, either an affection of the spine, or a general prostration of his physical energies. 'Poor Caleb is a perfect wreck of what he was when he first reached the minesi and I assure you, Joseph looks but little better than he did just before his death.' "I felt so miserable at this: unhappy news; that I begged John, as he cared for me, and for my poor orphan and suffering brother, to go without delay and save him from the horrid fate which had over- taken Caleb. It-was not necessary for me to urge him to go, for I saw his face flush with indignation at the cruelty of the superintendent. He left the next day for Newcastle, and through the influence of a gentle- man of great weight of character, for whom he had done a considerable amount of work, he succeeded in getting Joseph away, and brought him to London. It almost broke my heart to see my poor brother limp- ing and hobbling towards me, as he approached the house, and in the excess of my feelings, I threw my arms around and pressed him  to my heart, which caused him to groan with pain. His side anid back were sore and tender to theotouch. Itdeed, his whole body seemed changed. His arms and legs were crook- ed, his shoulders were out of shape, and instead of the bounding figure,and open, healthy face, he had previous to his working in the mines, he was misshapen, hag-   182      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, gard in'appearance, and wasted away in flesh. Joseph was glad to see me, but it was evident his spirits were broken. It could not be otherwise, when, for so long a time, he had stretched every nerve and sinew of his body at hard labor, in awkward and unnatural posi- tions. If there had been a drachm of mercy in the heart of his master, (he would have had pity on his youth, and not allowed him to be stretched in agony, and twisted and cramped in horrid pains, such as he had endured, and from which poor Caleb had met so horrid a death. It wrings my heart and makes my flesh quiver now, to think of their dreadful sufferings. Their master had an interest in one of them for seven and the other for nine years, and his policy was to make the most out them for the time they were bound to his service. But the brute required too much of them. Nature gave way, and my unhappy brothers were not able to endure it. The cruelty of their master was so great that it defeated his avarice. Death, and not gold, was the result of his tyranny. Instead of gaining gold by their labor, his soul was stained with moral, if not legal, murder. "Joseph never saw another day of health. He lin- gered for some months with an affection of the spine, and died, having wasted away almost to a skeleton. I could not grieve at his death, for I saw that, life was a burden to him. We continued to live in London, and for six years, though not prosperous, John (with my assistance in the use of the needle) succeeded in mak- ing a support for our family. At the end of that time he was- attacked with typhus fever, and was, for sever- al months, confined'to his room. Then we felt .the horrors of poverty and want. I had no one to look to for help, and nothing to depend upon but my own   THEJ! J'A"T^ U'T T U F, T N1U-N. ULO. unaided exertions. I felt willing to toil night and day for my husband and children, and often did I sit and sew until past midnight, to earn a few shillings a week to purchase the plainest fbod, and pay the rent of our tenement. Others in the same building were as poor- and destitute as ourselves, and often my heart would almost faint beneath the pressure of our own troubles and the sight of those who lived around us. My old- est child, a boy ten years old, would go out and oc- casionally earn a few pence, which helped us some. Driven to desperation, when he could get nothing to do, he fell into the habitrof joining the little ragged beggars that roamed the streets, and would now and then bring us a small sum or a loaf of bread, which he obtained from the hands of some charitable passer-by, or vendor of provisions. Fortunately, John recovered from his severe attack, but it was several weeks after the fever had left him before he could exert himself at his trade. To add to our affliction, my son, to whom I have alluded, was taken down with the same kind of fever which had afflicted his father, and in a short time we followed him to the grave. Soon after this, John was persuaded to join a party who were about to emigrate to America. He was told this was the land of the free and the asylum of the oppressed. They told him it was a country where the poor could , obtain plenty of work and liberal, wages, and where they would not be treated as if they were little better than the brutes of the field; that it was the land of plenty and welcome for all. We were -landed in this city in the month of November, and my husband con- cluded to remain here and follow his trade. Man ar- ranges, but God dispenses. We had been here but one month when my husband was again taken sick, I  .                .    184:    -l'aTL SOMERS; OR, and died after an illness of about two weeks. I need not tell you of my trials and sorrows. I found no dif- ference between life in London and New York, situated as I was, and you, kind lady} and gentleman, know in what condition you found me and my poor children. It was not your fault that you did not find us in time to save the one that is gone. I, and the other three, owe our lives and present comfort, under the provi- dence of God, to your friendly charity; and whatever may be our future lot, or wherever we may go, I shall pray, and teach my children to prty, for your happi- ness in this world and that which, is to come." Mrs. Norman burst into tears as she finished this brief ac- count of her life, her trials, and .afflictions. In a few moments she became more composed,: and the kind Mary Raymond observed, "I am not surprised, Mrs. Norman, at this outhurst of your feelings. Sorrow has trod heavily upon your /path. You have been a daughter of suffering; but the weary and afflicted whom you loved so well are now at rest. I hope with you that their names have been written by the recording angel in the book of life. 'As memory lingers over the sad scenes through which you have passed, tears, precious, consoling tears, will moisten your cheeks. Tears are blessings to the sorrowing heart. But while I sympa- thize with you in the sad memories of the past, I see much to console and cheer you. Fortune, like sun- shine through wintry clouds, it is true, now sheds its light upon you. Oh I how thankful you should be to the great Disposer of Events for his goodness. There are left to you your three lovely children. They will demand your care, and console you with their love. I pray Heaven to continue its blessings upon you and them.' ,   XTHE PATE OF THE UNION.     185 "I thank you, good lady," said Mrs. Norman, "for all your kindness and precious words. Your sweet name will be always upon my lips in prayer, and em- balmed in my heart." Mary Raymond and Edward Clinton left Mrs. Nor- man with -a happiler heart and brighter bopes, and both felt the secret satisfaction which springs from knowing that they had plucked an unfortunate and suf- fering fellow-creature and her children from impend- ing destruction. CHAPTER XIX. WE have gone back several months to introduce to the reader's attention the interview between Miss Ray- mond, Clinton, and Mrs. Norman. We return now, in the prqgress of our story, to the time when Mortimer left Woodlawn, as related in Chapter Sixteen. Meeting with some acquaintances who were going to the North, partly on business, and partly on a pleasure trip,[he concluded to join them at their very pressing solicita- ) tion. The reader will imagine them to have safely arrived in the city of New York, where they remained for a few days, and arranged their plans for a-brief sojourjg at several places of fashionable resort. Morti- mer informed Clinton of his arrival as soon as he reached the city, and they spent much of their time together. On one occasion Mortimer said: "You will remember, Clinton? that we were con- versing upon the subject of slavery when you were called away by a card from our; friend Lee, who came   186   -    E'THEiL -SOMERS; ,OR to convey to Mississippi the remains of our laments friend Charles Somers. I had no opportunity of renew ing the conversation with you again upon that subjec as Lee's stay was so short and I accompanied him c his return. You are a reasonable man, and I try I be one myself; and when two such persons frol opposite sections of the Union meet, they can brea lances upon that absorbing question without inc vility, or a resort to sword-law or other kind c violence. I think, too, Clinton, the best way to keE from these violent resorts is, for the people of the tw sections to understand one another fully and fairli A Cimmerian gloom covers the whole land upon th question; but if its effects could be seenin the specu of the two sections, I think the friends of the Unio: North and South, would see abundant reason, at leas for trying to do something to smooth down the wrinkle and contortions of feature which would be exhibited 1 their view." "I should be glad, Mortimer," replied Cli: ton, "to see the Gordian knot of difficulty satisfactori] untied. How would you propose to do it?" "By a adherence," replied Mortimer, " to the principles of ti national Constitution." "I am as willinf as you are said Clinton, "to abide by the Constitution; but do( the Constitution prove that slaveryis a moral, social, an political blessing?" I do not claim that it does," sai Mprtimer. "Southern slavery may be a moral, socia and political curse. For the sake of argument, I gral that itis. What I contend- for is, that the ConstitUtic is the supreme law of the Union while it lasts. Yoi fathers and my fathers,representatives- of free sove eign, and independent states, formed a compact c union for the promotion of their mutual good. The established a national government for the general we   THE. FATE OF THE UNION.   r  187 fare of all the states included in this covenant of union, whose powers were specifically defined in the consti- tution which they framed for their common guidance and protection. The North or the South may have -made a bad bargain, but, nevertheless, a' bargain was made.  Litera scripta manet. Are you willing to stand by it? If you are not, you have the right to withdraw from the Union, but you do not possess the right to dictate to the South what institutions she shall have; especially have you no right to dictate to her the abolition of an institution, which not only existed within her own, but your borders, also, when the bargain was made. You have abolished Negro Slavery within your limits. Your right to do that is not contested. The southern states have not only not abolished it, but they adhere to and maintain the institution within their limits. Your right to interfere in'their domestic concerns is denied. What say you to that?"  The Constitution," replied Clinton, " gives no individual the right to move to the territory of the Union with his property, of any kind. Sovereignty resides in the 'United States, and not in individual states. The former possess both the sovereignty- and property in the territories. Congress can deny, or grant to individual citizens, the privilege of going upon the territorial lands. By virtue of the sovereignty vested in the United States, the national legislature can permit or -exclude the introduction of slavery into the territories. If Congress exclude it by legislation, it cannot go there. It is equally inhibited in the absence of legis- lation, because in that way only can the rights of the government be transferred to individual citizens. In my opinion-slavery being a moral, social, and polit, ical evil--it is the duty of the government to exclude   188      UXT MiL SOMERES; Ol, it from all territory in which it does not now exist." "I might,-Clinton,' said Mortimer, "reply in part to the first portion of your last remark, by saying:' that when the people of the South want the advice of their northern brethren, they can ask for it; when advice is gratui- tously offered and rejected, and is urged again and again, with persistive obstinacy, to say the least, it becomes intrusive. States, like individuals, are entitled to their own opinions. As an individual justly becomes offended with another-both being equally entitled to freedom of will, judgement, and action-who seeks officiously to control his opinions and conduct, so a state becomes offended with another state for simnilar conduct. But I pass over that point for the present, to call in question your declaration that they do not interfere with our rights. It is true the people of the North have not backed their advice with the sword. They have not yet obtained such numerical strength in  ngress as would enable 'them to abolish slavery :,.?Pte District of Columbia, and prohibit by legislation -its- existence in the territories ;, but the signs of the times indicate a settled purpose to do that, whenever they think they can do it with safety. Constitutional obligations -are rapidly obsolescent. We of the South yielded ah nempire to the institutions of the North, in the compromise of eighteen hundred and fifty, for a mere recognition of a constitutional right and a fugi- tive slave law, when the Constitution guaranteed the recovery of fugitives from service. I need not remind youi how futile that law has proven in some instances, and how difficult it has been to enforce it in others. You might say that the recovery of slaves at a cost exceeding their value, and the loss of the lives of southern men'in. seeking to recover them, under the   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      189 law, were not the direct acts of the northern states m their municipal capacity, but consequences which followed the acts of lawless and infuriated mobs. But that will not satisfy the claims of justice, nor heal the wounded sensibilities of the people of my section, Your mobs might defeat the law in every instance; and thus as completely nullify it as if the states them- selves had, by positive enactments, prohibited the ren- dition of fugitive slaves to their owners. I do not desire to trespass upon your time or patience by an an. alysis of the Constitution, to prove that the maintenance of the rights of slave-holders and the institution -itself is guaranteed by that sacred instrument. I will cite you three passages only. In article four, section two you find, this language: 'No person- held to service, or labor in one state, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regu- lation therein, be discharged from such servicer or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of theparty to whom such labor or service may be due.' Agait- in section third of the same article, we find this lan- guage: "' The United States shall guarantee to every state in this Union a republican form  of government,- and shall protect each of them against invasion; and on application of the legislature, or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be convened), against domestic iolence.! "This, Clinton, is a part of the bargain our forefathers from the North and the South -made, in solemn con- vention,-when framing a government for themselves and their posterity. This recognizes the right of the daveholder to a property in his slave, and his rendi- aion to his master, and of, course to slavery, in case of: ) C          , '   "O0 -m.'4iBL SOMERS;) on, his becoming a fugitive to any other state. In the last clause quoted, will be perceived that it is made the duty of the general government, in a certain con- tingency; to put down the. slaves when. in a state of insurrection. I will ask your attention, now, to the third clause to which i alluded, and which I quote last, although it comes before either of the others, in the same article of the Constitution. It is this: 'The citizens of each state shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several -states.' With these three-clauses in the Constitution, I would hold it in my hand, Clinton, and appeal to the sense of justice of every abolitionist or freesoiler in the land, with the confidence that he could no longer urge his disorganizing and dangerous doctrines upon the atten- tion and adoption of our National Legislature. I would even appeal to the advocate of the 'higher law,' but I fear it would be in vain to appeal to him. He would rebel against the plain injunctions of the Constitution, as' Lucifer did against the authority-of his God. He would pull down the pillars of the great teniple of Am- erican government to gratify his fanaticism, as Lucifer attempted to do the great architraves of God's eternal habitation, to gratify his unholy archangelic ambition. I would sooner depend upon the forbearing and pro- tection of the deadliest foreign enemies of our country than him. He would escape pejury under the wing of a deceptive mockery, and would outrage the rights and the homes of the South by clothing himself in the armor of a delusion and a lie. I hold, Clinton, that the three clauses of the Constitution to which I have re- ferred, amply sustain these three propositions: "First.--That the Constitution recognizes and guar- antees the institution of Slavery.   THE FATE OF THE 'UNION.      1t91 "Second.--That it recognizes slaves to be property. "Third.-That it establishes the equality of the rights of the citizens of every state of the Union. "Admitting their truth, Congress can pass no law, as you suppose it can, to exclude slavery from the terri- tories, without a plain and palpable infraction of the fundamental law.  Perhaps I might strengthen my position in your opinion, by stating that the Supreme Court has repeatedly decided that slaves are property, and that they   have been sold by United States Marshals to secure debts- due to the -United States. I differ withyou, toto caelo, in your views of sovereignty. I hold that- sovereignty resides in the States, indivi- dually, and that the general government is only an agent to secure the objects for which they confederated for mutual advantage and protection. You, as many other northern politicians, liken our political to our solar system, and imagine that the states are satellites revolving around a great central government, borrow- ing from it their light and even existence, as the planets do theirs from a great central sun. The exact reverse is true. The states formed the Union when free, sovereign,' and independent, and reserved all rights and powers to themselves, save only such as were specially granted for the general purposes of the confederation. The territories belong to the states- as much to one as to another. They are the common property of all, to be enjoyed by the citizens of each, not by virtue of their individual rights, but the sove- reignty and individuality of each state as a co-proprie- tor. The equality of the rights of the citizens of all the states, guarantees to each the privilege to move to these territories with his property, whether it consists of merchandize, cattle, or slaves. Each one has the   192  a"    ETHEL SOMERS; O0, privilege of going there with all his property, whatever it may be. The Constitution declares that new states may be admitted into the Union, but nowhere does it say, in express terms, or by implication, that slavery shall be excluded from them. There is not a line or a word in that instrument which gives to Congress the power to exclude slavery from the territories of the Union. Thus the whole question is within a nutshell. You may, and the people of the North may, be op- posed to slavery in the abstract. You may. think it a curse to the people of the South and a foul blot upon the fair escutcheon of our National Union, but neither you nor they can touch it unless with the consent of the people of the states in which it exists, without dis- regarding thd Constitution and staining your souls with perjury. Unless the South shall yield the institution of its own accord, no alternative is left you but to yield to the plain injunction of the Constitution, or desecrate it, or seek relief in separation from the states which maintain the institution." "Your plan, then," said Clinton to Mortimer, " is -to settle the difficulty either by a total submission of the North to the South, or a separation of the two sections." "Not exactly," replied Mortimer. "You would have expressed my views more correctly if you had said, either by an ad- herence to the Constitution, or a separation, Mind, Clinton, I claim the Constitution to be on my side of the question; now I ask you to show, if you can, that it is on yours. Some of your people, seeing the diffi- culty of sustaining themselves by an appeal to that re- cord of the bargain which our forefathers made, have taken refuge under a 'higher law.' They profess to believe that there is a law on the subject of slavery which exacts their obedience that is above the Consti-   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     193 tution. You must perceive that the Constitution is nothing with them. It would be indeed but a rope of sand were that doctrine allowed to prevail. Such a monstrous pretension ought to strike every just and honorable -man with horror. It strikes down at one blow all confidence between man and man. If ad- mitted, it would not only destroy the Constitution, but every safeguard of state rights. The weak would be at the mercy of the strong. Despotism would take the place of chartered freedom, and our whole system of government would be overthrown at a single blow." W Vith my views of the, Constitution," replied Clinton, "I do not believe the people of the North, through a numerical majority in Congress, have any right to in- terfere with slavery in the states, nor can they, under' a 'higher law.' I think of that as you do. But our forefathers, some of them from the South, too, did not contemplate the extension of slavery beyond-its limits at the time of the, adoption of the Federal Constitu- tion."  "It matters not," said Mortimer, "-what was contemplated by members from the North, or the. South. The question is, what did they do? I am aware that some even desired the emancipation of all the slaves. That being infeasible, they wished to deny any representation of slaves in Congress founded upon their enumeration as persons. But it-was finally set- tled that in the ratio of representation they should be rated as three fifths. Nothing was adopted by the convention-there is not a line or a word in the Con- stitution-which restricts the institution to the limits in which it was confined at the time the Constitution was framed, and signed by the representatives of the states in convention. We. cannot go behind the Con- stitution to find any binding efficacy in the opinions, g    ;.   194       vnfl: SOMERS; OR, or wishes of individual members, either against or for the institution. The thing to settle and to guide us is, what they actually did,. I have already shown that, -and until, you can successfully controvert my positions, you must abide by the compact as it was made. Mori- bus antiquis stat Roma. The South stands by her an- cient and plighted faith. She will abide by and main- tain- it, while, in doing so, she may not be called upon to forsake her rights, her altars, and her homes. I must say, Clinton, we of the South shall hold you of the North to the contract. We are willing to stand by it. Are you willing to do the same? The North wanted all the power she could get, and I freely con- fess the South, also, was influenced by a similar senti- ment.  The Constitution itself was a compromise. However the political power of either section was affected by it then, it is the duty of each to abide by the result. All that we ask in the game for power is, that justice shall be extended to each." "But has that been done?" said Clinton. "Has not the North been cheated by the wars and acquisition of territories which have taken place?" "I think not," replied Mor- timer. "If you refer to the war of 1812, I need only say that it was engaged in for the freedom of the seas, and redounded mainly to the advantage of the North. You certainly must admit that the Mexican war has added an empire to the political power of the North, though all the territory obtained by the'treaty of Gua- daloupe Hidalgo was purchased by the expenditure of two thirds more of southern effort, blood and trea- sure than northern. Can you tell me where the South is now to go for the extension of her power? We have. only a doubtful chance in the Kansas lottery. I will not disturb the ashes of the political and territorial ,  .             .;   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      195 difficulty settled by the compromise of 1850. The South obtained by that only the recognition of a con- stitutional "right, and a fugitive slave law to which we were already entitled under the sacred guarantees of the Constitution. I question whether even that law will avail the South any more than the previous law of 1793, which was nullified by the legislative action - of a- majority of the free states. You are aware of the difficulty, the cost and bloodshed, which has attended its execution in the few cases which have oc- curred since its adoption in 1850. Look at- a few facts which leave no room for cavil upon these points. The territories of the two sections was nearly equal when the present National Constitution was adopted. Now, that of the South amounts to 928,894 square miles, while that of the North, including Oregon and other territories, where slavery will, in all probability, never go, amounts to 2,190,750 square miles. The respective territories with the present states, will admit of at least fifty free to fourteen slave states in the future. When the Constitution was formed, the North had thirty-one. representatives while the South had thirty-four. Now, the former has 176, while the South has only 120. No, Clinton, the North has been the gainer by all the wars, and all the compromises, and all the acquisitions of territory, from the establishment of the government to the present time." "There is one feature in slavery, Mortimer, which I know you cannot justify, and that is, the separation of parents and children, husbands and wives, among the Baves." -"No, Clinton, that I do not justify, when the children are small, and husbands and' wives are really attached to each other. But this I assert, upon ny personal observation, which has been extensive:   196       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, I never knew an instance in which infants and very. small children were sold from their parents. If the owners of such slaves have been so inhuman as to offer them for sale in that way, the humanity of purchasers has prevented their separation. But, Clinton, the sev- erance of family ties in some instances, is an evil inci- dent to every form of society. - How many, even- of the fair sex, who have been tenderly reared, leave their parents, to seek their fortunes in distant states? How many families are scattered, in the changes of fortune, over several states of this Union, who, for years, cannot see each other, and many of whom die without a re- newal of that pleasure? It rarely happens that the wives of slaves are sold apart from their husbands, ex- cept in cases where it is known they have no affection for each other. , Almost without exception, in other cases, they are sold together. -But how is it in free society? How many husbands abandon their wives, or go to California, Australia, and other regions, and are separated from them for years, perhaps for ever? ]ow many husbands are torn from their wives for armies and navies, and never see them more? More disunions of husbands and wives, and that for ever, occur in the kingdoms of Great Britain, or France, or Russia, or Austria, in a single war of only a few years' duration, than would take place among the slaves of the South in five hundred years; and more in a similar war of our own country than in at least half that time." "It has been charged," said Clinton, "that in other respects your slaves are treated with inhumanity-that they are under-fed, badly clothed and lodged, and have insufficient sleep. I have been to some extent investi- gating this question of slavery, and have here a state- ment, full of startling charges, which fell into my   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      197 -hands a day or two since. It is taken from an Ameri- can work, published by an American anti-slavery society, entitled, 'American Slavery as it is, or the Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses.' I will read it to you, as follows: "'We will prove that the slaves of the United States are treated with barbarous inhumanity; that they are over-worked, under-fed, wretchedly clad and lodged, and have insufficient sleep; that'they are often made to wear around their necks iron collars armed with prongs, to drag heavy chains and weights at their feet while working in the field, and to wear yokes, and bells, and iron horns; that they are often kept confined in the stocks, day and night, for weeks together, made to wear gags in their mouths for hours or days, have some of their front teeth torn out or broken off that they may be easily detected when they run away; that they are frequently flogged with terrible severity, have red pepper rubbed into their lacerated flesh, and hot brine, spirits of turpentine, &c., poured over the gashes to increase the torture; that they are often, stripped naked, their backs and limbs cut with knives, bruised and mangled by scores and hundreds of blows with the paddle, and terribly torn by the claws of cats drawn over them by their tormentors; that they are often hunted by bloodhounds, and shot down like wild beasts, or torn in pieces by dogs; that they are often suspended by the arm   and whipped and  beaten till they faint, and when revived by restoratives, beaten again till they faint, and sometimes till they die ; that their ears are often cut off, their eyes knocked out, their bones broken, their flesh branded with red hot irons; that they are maimed, mutilated, and burned to death over slow fires. All these things; and more and worse,   198       ETHEL SOMERS;, OR, we shall prove. Reader, we know whereof we affirm- we have weighed it well; more and worse we will prove I Mark these words and read on. We will es- tablish a11 these facts by the testimony of scores and hundreds of eye-witnesses, by the testimony of slave- holders in all parts of the slave states, by slaveholding Members of Congress and of State Legislatures, by ambassadors to foreign courts, by judges, by doctors of divinity and clergymen of all denominations, by merchants, mechanics, lawyers and physicians; by presidents and professors in colleges and professional seminaries; by planters, overseers and drivers. We shall show, not merely that such deeds are committed, but that they are frequent; hot done in corners, but before the sun; not in one of the slave states, but in all df them; not perpetrated by'brutal overseers and drivers merely, but by magistrates, by legislators, by professors of religion, by preachers of the gospel, by governors of states, by gentlemen of property and standing, and by delicate females moving in the highest circles of society.' "There, Mortimer," said Clinton, when he had fin- ished reading it,-" what do you think of that?" "I am only surprised," replied Mortimer, " that the writer did not cap the climax of the lie, by swearing he could prove by a thousand witnesses that one half of the slaveholders of the South were cannibals, and actually dined daily upon negroes fattened for their tables. But, Clinton, let me ask you, what do you think of it?" "To be candid, Mortimer, I must say that in my opinion, the greater part of it is a foul slander. I merely read it to see how you would take it, for my own amusement. I have been at the South once, you know, and if all the slaves -are treated as well as those   TIIE FATE OF THE UNION.    -  199 I saw, the writer of the extract I have read to you ought to receive a patent right for exaggeration, to say the least of it. But, Mortimer, where a whole class of people are as much subject to the wills of another class as the slaves of the' South, it is reasonable to suppose that many instances of cruelty will occur." "Undoubtedly," replied Mortimer. "There are cruel men in every country, and in all classes of society; but when the problem of man shall -be better under- stood, the world will see that cruelty to dependents is modified by the nature of the dependence. A man of bad passions, who has a proclivity to injure and oppress his fellows, finds no check to his lawless sway, when others are at the mercy of his will, with no safeguard but the weak humahity which exists in his bosom. But when they are, to some extent, not only at his mercy, when they not only look to him for protection-but are his property-the law of interest unites with the law of kindness to secure them fromn cruelty and oppres- sion. Hence, there are slaveholders who are kind to their slaves when they are kind to nobody else. I am personally acquainted with such men, in my section. I know some who, while they are not esteemed by their neighbors, because of their violent tempers and unsocial natures, are actually loved by their slaves. There is something paradoxical in this, but it is true, nevertheless; and the secret of it is the interest the master has in his slave. If this principle thus affects the character and impulses of the bad, with how much greater force does it operate upon those of the good? I will venture the assertion, Clinton, that five hundred bad men in free society Will cause more evil, more social injury, wrong and suffering to those about them, than five thousand-slaveholders, who are also bad men,   200        thEiL SOMERS; OR, will cause td their slaves. But I do not deny that there are masters in the southern' states who are sometimes cruel to one or the other of their slaves. It often happens that in a collection of negroes upon a plantation there is some one more disobedient arid rebellious than the rest--more prone to neglect his duty, violate good order, and practice theft. Such a negro is more apt to be dealt severely with than the rest, and if owned by a master of ungovernable passions, is liable at times to be treated with cru- elty. Ex abusu non arguytur ad utsum.   Appren- tices, in free society, are often subjected to the se- verest treatment. Privates, in armies and navies, not only experience severe corporeal punishment, but sometimes forfeit their lives. Persons in civil society become subject to the laws, and are punished by con- finement in jails and penitentiaries. In despotisms they lose their heads; in monarchies they are impris- oned, transported, or hung. In every class of human servitude, there must be rule on the one hand, and submission on the other. In the relation of master and slave, it is essential. In southern society the dis- obedient slave is admonished or punished, but still he has a home and receives protection;- in free society he is dismissed without a recommendation, and subjected to all the evils of uncertainty as to a home, and, often, of want even of the food necessary to sustain life. If you would condemn southern civilization because of isolated instances of cruelty to slaves, I might condemn northern civilization because of isolated instances of cruelty to apprentices and servants. A slave may have -died of cruel treatment received from the 'hands of his owner; an apprentice may -have died, at the North,'of cruel treatment at the hands of his master.   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     . 201 The slaves of the South, if emancipated, would return voluntarily to slavery after a trial of freedom, such as the poor experience in free society.. The free negroes have. no rest, no quiet, no fixed hope, in the free states. Some of these states exclude them; ;others are contem- plating their expulsion, and mobs pursue them with brickbats, fire and persecution. The negro, as a slave, is cared for and happy; as a freeman, he is buffeted, without hope, or the prospect of permanent abode and security. The English soldier and sailor, who enlists for life, is subjected to hardships of which the slave is ignorant.  The slaves of the South are generally treated with great humanity. They do less work than the free laborers of the North, or the working classes of the Old World. They have an ample abundance of good food, and are almost universally well clad and comfortably lodged. I promise you this, Clinton, upon the honor of a man: If you will travel over the south- ern states, and report, when you get through them, that you saw a single instance of the horrid cruelties refer- red to in the extract taken from the book of a blind fanatic or willful calumniator, I will give my rslaves their freedom, if they will accept it, which -Iyvery much doubt. But even if you were to find an isolated case of cruelty, as bad as the worst alluded to by that writer, it would not be fair to condemn the institution, unless you could show that every other,' or, if you please, any other society, where slavery does not ex- ist, is exempt from enormities as great. I do solemnly believe, taking the slaves of the Sonth in mass, there is, in any given year, less than one fifth, of the misery among them, that is experienced in the same time by the free blacks of the-state of New York alone. They considerably exceed three millions, while your black - ,#? jLS    202       E"HifL SOMERS; OR, freemen and brethren will not reach -fifty thousand. There is five times as much misery among the poor of your city, in any given year,-as among all the blacks of the South during the same period. It is so in Eng- land-that cunning instigator of northern infidelity to the Constitution and the South. You remember the cries of starving Ireland, a few years since, when her people fell prostrate in their dwellings, in the streets of her towns, and along her public highways, writhing in the agonies of hunger and death! Oh, what memories of wrongs and woes have the people of Ireland I That fair, rich, beautiful isle, has been blasted by British rule, as the green tree by lightning; and yet her dukes and duchesses have shed hypocritical tears overthe slaves of America, not one of whom has died of hunger, and all of whom are better off than hundreds of thousands of her own suffering poor. She has noright to point to the wroligs of the slave, when every city, town, and hamlet, and innumerablewhovels, in her dominions, are mourn- ful monuments of her neglect of her own unfortunate . subjects.  And-yet she has sent her missionaries here to incite you to violate our rights, perjure your souls, and destroy, it may be, the temple of American Union and Freedom. * She sought to break down your man- -ufacturing establishments in their infancy, from mo- tives of selfishness. She seeks to destroy the Union for the same reason.  She is your natural enemy-the South's natural friend. In a state of disunity, she will side with the South. Her existence depends on our cotton.  Let the North become to the South a foreign people, and England will become the ally of the latter. Hier manufacturing-interests are antagonistical to yours. If she can supplant you in the market of the South, in becoming the -carriers for the South, your 'prosper- m  coming -darriers,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      208 ity will go down, and hers go up.  But that, and other subjects, I reserve for a future conversation. Before we separate for the present, I would ask you if you have seen the account recently- published of the 'Bath of Blood? ' i"'-The Bath of Blood '" said Clinton, with surprise. "I do not understand you; to what do you allude?" "It is only," said Mortimer, " an incident in Hunga- rian history, which I saw floating inthe newspapers of this day, and I refer to it as a set-off to the extract which you have read to me. I could but think what a handle the Negrophilists of the North, and England, would have made of it, had some southern lady imbrued her hands in the blood of as many slaves as a certain Polish lady, in high life, did in that of the maidens in her service. By parity of reasoning, I could condemn the system of white servitude-indeed, the whole system of what is called free society. The facts are briefly these, and occurred about the year 1810. They were taken from the proof-sheets of' The History of Hungary, in De Puy's Kdssuth and his Generals.' Elizabeth Bathori, the wife of a Hungarian magnate, and sister of the King of Poland, was ex- ceedingly vain of her personal appearance, as well as cruel in her disposition. One day, having struck a maiden servant so violently in the face as to draw blood, a portion of which fell upon her hand, she im- agined, in washing'it off, that her hand was whiter than usual. The idea immediately crossed her mind, that she had discovered the great secret of improving and preserving beauty.  By the assistance of two old women in her* service, she decoyed some m-aidens into a subterranean passage,which passed from their cot- tage at the foot of the rock, on which her castle stoodc   2064      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, to the latter. In this secret passage they were put to death, and a bath was made for the lady-monster, of their fresh warm blood. Thus she continued her dia- bolical bath until more than three hundred maidens had been sacrificed to her cruel vanity. Love, at last, brought their infernal orgies to light, when all other means had failed. to discover the cause of the disap- pearance .of so many fair and beautiful girls. A young man,--who was in love with a girl, just engaged for the service of Bathori, driven to desperation by the fear of losing her for ever, followed up, his dulcinea go closely, that he discovered the secret passage, but too late to save her. He immediately flew to Presburg, and  laid before the Palatine the discovery he had made. That officer was so struck with horror at the story, that he went in person to investigate the affair, and actually apprehended Bathori and her accomplices in the act of gathering the blood of a new victim, whose body Was yet-warm to the touch. , The two old women were burned at the stake, while Bathori, in consequence of her rank, was only imprisoned for life. This is stated to be a fact, legal documents being in existence to prove the charge of murder, the nature of the crime, the trial, and the convictions which follow- ed. Nothing in the annals of crime can exceed this, in its pitiless enormity, perpetrated, too, in the nine- teenth century, by the dictation, if not the hand, of a beautiful woman, surrounded with all the splendor of rank and wealth. The castle was -immediately desert- ed., The voice of revelry was heard no more within its spacious halls. It was stained with the blood of more than three hundred blooming and confiding maidens, each one of whom deemed herself fortunate, yea, happy, to be called to wait in the train of the   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      205 lady of the Castle of Geta. It was deemed to be haunted afterwards, by the ignorant and superstitious, who imagined they could hear the shrieks of the mur- dered maidens as they passed, as' others did the caw- ings of the ravens, who made their nests in its lofty but deserted turrets. Contrast, Clinton, this constella- tion of crime with the so-called horrors of southern slavery. A thousand years could not pile up, in all the aggregate of wrongs to the slaves, a monument of guilt so gloomy, horrid, and revolting. We must not forget that crime and evils are incident to society in all its forms. The poor tenants at sufferance are liable in free society to be cut loose from the moorings of situa- tion. The old t what often becomes of them? They stagger ..on in friendless poverty to the grave. The youthful son is borne on upon the waves of trial, per- haps temptation and crime, to ruin. The blooming daughter I what becomes of her? Alas  Too often, she looks downcast for a time, then stares with callous heart and brazen guilt; her life, a wreck of blighted hopes; her name, the synonyme of dishonor." CHAPTER X X. THE time for Clinton's marriage with Miss Eustace was rapidly approaching. "But four days more are left me," soliloquized he, as almost fevered with agita- tion, he paced his room on the night which succeeded this conversation with Mortimer. "The union of man and woman should be founded on the heart's love, and that upon the highest admiration of character, and the UP    206       L1'TrL SOMERS; OR, purest esteem. The bridal vail which falls so grace- fully over the form of beauty, standing before Hymen's altar, should be symbolical of innocence, confidence, born in love, and devotion, true as the needle to the northern star. He who. stands by her side, with her trembling but willing hand in his, should feel that she was a tender flower sent from heaven to nestle in his bosom; to live upon its warmth, its-sympathy, its ten- derness, its honor, and its love. The marriage cham- ber should be a holy sanctuary of heart-companion- ship, and over it, a vail of purity should be cast, sacred to the parties, and hallowed in the eye of heaven and human law. No radical differences should exist, either of opinion; character, or conduct.   All along the journey of life-from  the rosy morn of union to the twilight hour of dissolution-their hopes, their joys, and their sorrows, should be the same in the mystic tie which blends their souls in one.  Oh! crushing thought I I am going to that sacred altar without the flower sent from heaven, and with a heart unwarmed by  those generous and noble virtues and affections. How am I fallen in hope, in self-respect, in honor -itselfI Oh, slaveryl but for thee, this stain would not rest upon my soul I  Myheart would not be tortured thus I But no I my father's need demands the sacrifice. His gray hairs; his unceasing love demands it I Ah, yesI "' 'Tis necessity, To which the gods must yield,' that binds me in chains stronger than iron.  Fate-  cruel, inevitable fate-destines me to this union. I must submit. I will yield to it like a passive slave'; andaow, sweet sleep, come to my aid, and grant me a few Lethean hours of repose." But his invocation was   1   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      207 in vain. The fondest hopes of his life had vanished like a dream. He thought of Ethel and happiness; of Miss Eustace, and life blighted in its rosy morn, until his mind was irritated into a species of moral calenture. When wearied nature yielded at last, his repose was fit- ful. In one of his temporary spells of troubled rest, the same dreamy, beautiful phantom he had seen in his sleep at Mrs. Howard's, approached him. She unfold- ed a scroll, and said ' Upon this is recorded the his- tory of five thousand years. Wherever time exhibits its footprints among the habitations of man, -there slavery was seen to exist. It was ordained of Heaven. I saw it before the time on which the memory of man is written. I saw it in the tents of Abraham. Sarah, his wife, upon whose brow imperial beauty and com- manding dignity had set their seals, received Isaac to her bosom from the hands of her turbaned slave. I saw it in hundred-gated Babylon, whose lofty domes and towers, tipped with silver and gold, reflected for centuries in her clear, blue skies, the light of the rising sun, or its softer radiance, as it descended to rest in its pavilion of purple and gold. Canst thou fathom the wisdom of God?   Wilt thou call in question his arrange- ments?   Canst thou not see the goodness-of God to the African, in transplanting him, even in appearances of cruelty and wrong, from a land of ethnic idolatry and fiendful practices, to one illuminated by the light of civilization and Gospel truth? Canst thou not see his wisdom and goodness in making his interest and the de- pendence of the slave a bribe and a douceur to the mas- ter's heart, to soften it with humanity and kindness? If all are not free from passion and inhumanity, will that condemn the plan of God in the eyes of men? Ais well might you rebel against your Maker for per-   208.      EilL SOMERS; OR, mitting evil, and crime, and suffering to exist in every land, and in all societies upon which the sun sheds its light by day, and the moon and stars their light by night. God reins the winds, directs the lightning, and rules the destinies of men. He who ordained the in- stitutions of slavery to exist in all future time, as it has existed in the past, will surely punish the inhu- manity of the master, as he will the intruder, who seeks to thwart the purposes of his Divine will. The laws of nature, as they emanated from   the immutable Creator, will, doubtless, for countless ages in the fu- ture, continue the same as they now are, and have ex- isted in all the ages of the past. We behold in the- planet we inhabit the fitness of all the providences of the Eternal. I have sat upon the sea-shore and lis- tened to old ocean's murmurs,' seen the flux   and reflux of its tides, without variation or the shadow of change. How different has been the fate of empires I I have stood upon the mouldering towers and crumb- ling monuments, and mused amidst the interminable and solemn  catacombs of nations that are no more. Time passing, even now, speaks of" their memories, their noontide splendor, their midnight desolation-- though it may not lament their fates. But man looks sadly and inquiringly upon their shadowy forms, as he walks amidst their ruins and contemplates their buried greatness.- For them, as for you, the sun ascended in his golden chariot, while the white mists of the east opened at his coming, like magnificent curtains which had hung around his flaming couch. For them, as for you, it painted its beauties upon trees, and flow- ers, and waters; bestowed its warmth upon the earth, and made it yield its golden harvests and delicious fruits. Woe to-those who, self-suffcient in their wis- t                     .    THE FATE OF THE UNION.      209 dom, rebellious against, the decrees of God, shall cease not their sacrilegious purposes! Men sleep in their ,graves, and as the ivy and moss hang over them, as if mourning their fates: so nations sleep in their tombs, covered with the gloomy shadows of the past, beneath which a few mouldering monuments, time-worn vestiges of old, scattered here and there, remain as melancholy souvenirs of their past existence. I cannot divine the future; but, judging from the past, a shroud is now preparing in the womb of fate for this land, favored of Heaven beyond all the nations of the earth. Fare thee well. My mission is endedl I shall see thee no more I Remember that, while I dare not say upon thy decision depends the fate of the -Unioni; it will be either a happy or unhappy auspice of its destiny. God will not forsake his people who follow his commandments. Those who will not, will find the arm of their strength broken, and their land desolate." Clinton awoke as the apparition vanished. "It is all a dream," said he to himself;- "an idle dream." Still the pensive face of the beautiful vision haunted his imagination; and, though awake, the sweet silvery, but solemn tones of its voice, seemed to linger in his ear like sad and melancholy music. When first he saw it in his dream, at the cdttage of his aunt, it seemed to be addressing Ethel Somers. Now, like a spirit of the dreamy past, it had come to commune with him. It whispered words of deep meaning in his ear. He felt restless, disturbed, and unusually ex- cited. Pressing his pulse, which indicated fever, he endeavored to throw off all thoughts of the vision, by attributing it to that. The bright sun and the fresh morning air tended greatly to free him from what he could but deem a dreamy, though singular,illusion.   210       .WtMbL SOMERS ; O1R, Clinton was surprised, early in the forenoon, by the reception of a card from Lee, informing him of his arrival in New York. He proceeded immediately to the hotel, and had scarcely exchanged salutations with him, when Mortimer joined them. After a few minutes spent in making inquiries concerning mutual friends, and in conversation upon such topics as would naturally arise at -a meeting like theirs, Mortimer ob- served, with an arch expression of eye and counte- nance, "The sight of a bona fide Cupid-wings, bow, and all-could not have surprised me half as much, Clinton, as something I heard of you last evening." Clinton, suspicious of what was coming next, could not conceal a rising glow, as Mortimer continued: "I see from your looks that there must be some truth in it. I thought, yesterday, your face looked as if you were trying to mask some hidden emotions-delicate secrets of the heart Is it true, Clinton? We are all three good friends. It has not been long since Lee deserted the ranks of single-blessedness, to interweave Mis life' with one of your fair countrywomen. He cannot find fault with you, and surely I will not. Is it true?" The reader can well imagine what effect this raillery had upon Clinton, when, to his own emotions and -thoughts, with which he is familiar, is added the fact, that he knew neither Mortimer nor Lee had been previously aware of his approaching nuptials. Clin- ton, however, rallied, as best he could, and with a forced nonchalance of manner, replied, "Surely, Mor- timer, you will not hold me responsible for what Madam Rumor may surmise and conjecture about me." "Certainly not," replied Mortimer, looking roguishy, at Clinton. "But is the declaration of Miss Eustace's   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       2" uncle, the surmise or conjecture of Madam Rumor? I happened, last evening, to overhear the conversation of two gay sparks of this city, and one of them posi- tively assured the other (whose name I learned after. wards,was Herbert) that he had it from the lips of her uncle, that you and Miss Eustace were to be married in a few days. The informer is a relative of Miss E., and intimately acquainted with the family. Herbert seemed greatly depressed at the news, and I would not be surprised if you have taken the wind out of his love sails." Clinton (the time for his marriage being so near at hand) felt that he was fairly "cornered;" but still having recovered from the first shock of his feelings, he playfully observed, "Many a man, Mor- timer, has been actually married when he himself was utterly ignorant of the delicate transaction. Let time show how much truth there is in what you have heard." Thus the conversation passed for a brief time, when Clinton and Mortimer called upon Mrs. Lee, in whose pleasing and graceful society they had remained for a half hour, when Mortimer excused himself, bowed, and retired. , After Mortimer had left, Lee observed, "We have, Mr. Clinton, but a short time to remain in the city. Mrs. Lee was desirous of visiting the family of her old friend, Mr. Manners, and was anxious, for reasons which may readily occur to you, to make the ac- quaintance of Miss Raymond. Indeed, the whole family of Colonel Somers, although personally unac- quainted with her, feel a deep interest in her welfare, and they, too, were desirous that we should see and express to her their lasting obligations for her kind feelings towards our mutual and lamented friend,- Charles Somers. Intimately acquainted as you are, or l^   212       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, with Miss Raymond, we would be greatly indebted to you for- the kindness to accompany us to Mrs. Ray- mond's, and favor us with an introduction to her. We waive the usual ceremony in seeking her acquaintance, from the considerations to which I have alluded, and the fact, that we shall leave the city early to-morrow ,morning." Clinton, with great politeness, tendered his services, and accompanied them to the residence of Miss Raymonid's mother. They found her at home, and were received with the winning and graceful courtesy so characteristic of that charming and lovely lady. It required only a few minutes to link the hearts of Mrs: Lee and Mary Raymond in the ties of a warm and tender sympathy. "You leave town so soon," said Mary Raymond to Mrs. Lee, " that you must not let our brief acquaintance interpose any obstacle to your remaining with me through the day." Mrs. Lee yielded to her very press. ing solicitation, and Clinton and Lee retired at an early hour, the latter promising to call late in the afternoon.  "I deeply regret, Miss Raymond," said Mrs. Lee, as-the sun was rapidly sinking toward the western horizon, " to find your mother's health so bad. Indeed, you are not looking quite well yourself. We should all be so happy if you and your mother would visit us in the South, when the winter approaches with its chilling breath. Our climate is so mild, that frequently the winters pass off without clothing our section in the white and cheerless robes of snow, which are so common here.  At' Woodlawn   you will find hearts bruised, subdued, almost crushed with sorrow; but they will be cheered by your presence, and solaced in their unceasing efforts to soothe your own and your mother's affliction."   THE FATE OF THE UNION,      213 Mary Raymond parted with Mrs. Lee with tears in her eyes, having accepted her kind invitation, and that of Colonel Somers and his family, to visit them, if practicable, during the cold season, which was rapidly  approaching. During the day, Mary and. Mrs. Lee had freely coihmuned about the pasgt' Mrs. Lee,. feeling for the former like a sister, had explained to her thie circustances connected with Clinton's love for Ethel. She was greatly surprised when Mary informed her that he was soon to be married to Miss Eustace; for she also had heard of it, through a female friend, who obtained her information from a source too reliable to admit of doubt. Indeed, -this intelligence was a source of ex- ceeding pain to her feelings, for she was well aware, notwithstanding all that had taken place, that Ethel was still attached to Clinton, and while she had striven to divert her thoughts from all ideas of a reconcilia- tion, she secretly entertained the hope that something would turn up to remove the existing difficulty to their union. But this news destroyed all hopes of that. Indeed, it caused her to change her opinion of Clinton in no small degree. She imagined she could now see the cause of his hasty letter to Ethel; and his selection of Miss Eustace for a wife, from what she had heard of her, proved either his lack of judgement and discretion, or of those high-toned and noble senti- ments which had been accorded him. He seemed, in her opinion, to be no longer under 'the fascination of love. She fancied that his heart had been bribed with gold, and that love, sentiment, and honor, had all been sacrificed at a gilded shrine. As soon as she left Mrs. Raymond's, she stated to her husband what she had heard. "-Oh " said he; "I learned what you relate - this morning. Mortimer playfully alluded to it in   214       ETHlEL SOMERS; OR, Clinton's presence, and it was amusing to see his dis- composure. It is too true, Emily. I have heard more of it since I left you at Mrs. Raymond's. -He is to be married in less than a week. Mortimer is astonished at it. He tells me it will not do at all; that he cannot venture to express any opinion to Clinton upon so delicate a subject. Matters have gone too far., The day is set for the' nuptials." "It is my-opinion, my dear husband," said Mrs. Lee, " we have overestimated Mr. Clinton in one of two particulars, or in both, which I incline to think is true. We have over-rated his sensenand his moral nature."  "You must not be too hasty, my sweet Emily. You were too sanguine, that by some fortune or other, Clinton and Ethel would be man and wife. You know I told you that pride of opinion would keep Clinton at a distance; and I should not be surprised, were the truth known, if that very pride has driven him headlong into this affair with Miss Eustace. There never was an engagement be- tween him and Ethel, you know; besides, he could go no farther than make the offer he did. Ethel saw proper to reject it. Clinton was then free. No, Emily, there are two sides to a, question. Edward Clinton had a perfect right to address Miss Eustace. I have a great deal of confidence in his good sense and judge- ment. He   may see more merit in her than some others do. I could refer you to one or two instances, in which gay, laughing, fashionable girls, were sobered down after marriage, and made most excellent wives." "I don't believe it will be so in this case," said Mrs. Lee.   '.I think, unless others are greatly mistaken, that Miss Eustace has redical defects of character." "But they may be mistaken,'" said Lee. "Clinton's judgement is too keen not to have seent hose radical ', -  o     ,            "     -   THE FATE OF THE UNION.   -  215 defects, should they exist. But if he has calculated wrong, he will have the consequences to bear." "He has not calculated wrong as to money," replied Mrs. Lee; " and while I hope he may have been influenced by a higher motive, I fear that is the load-stone which has attracted him. At any rate," continued Mrs. Lee, "one of us must write to Ethel before we leave New York, and acquaint Tier with the true state of the facte." "I have no objection to that.- I think it will prove a relief to Ethel's mind; and in my opinion she will not be^ the loser by Clinton's marriage with Miss Eustace, if a conjecture of mine be true." "What is. that?" eagerly inquired Mrs. Lee. "I will tell you," said Lee, "if you will agree to be bound over to secrecy." "Oh I certainly," said Mrs. Lee. - "It shall be entre nous.' "What then would you say to Mor- timer for Ethel's husband?" '"Why, I should like it admirably," replied Mrs. Lee. "He is as handsome as Edward Clinton, and, I now think, more intellectual and high-toned in his moral principles," "Well," said Lee, ' he is in love with Ethel. or I am no judge in such matters. He told me when I first saw him in the forenoon, that he expected in-a day or two, to accompany some young friends from4the South to several fashionable places in this .and other States. But, during the day, after he had learned that Colonel"T Somers and his family were in Richmond, he suddenly remembered that some business of importance would prevent his going witK them, and call him to the South. He stated that he would remain at -Richmond a short time, and do himself the pleasure to call upon Colonel Somers and his family."' "How' does that: prove," asked Mrs. Lee, '"that he is in love with Ethel?" "That of itself, disconnected from other facts,   216      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, would not prove it. But you remember his visit to Woodlawn on his way from New Orleans. Why should he have turned so far from his path of travel, merely to call in from motives of ordinary sympathy? He stated to me that he would endeavor to be at Woodlawn again, during the fall. Now that he learns Ethel is in Richmond, he has business to take him in that direction, but stronger than all this is the evidence afforded by his anxious inquiries after Miss Somers. You know, dear Emily, the eye, the face, the tone of the voice, can speak as plainly as words. They are of- ten the best indices of the emotions of the heart. These exhibited the secret feelings of Mortimer's heart, as he questioned me so feelingly, so minutely, yet so deli- cately, about Ethel. He wished to know if she was not more cheerful; if the society'and attentions of a gentleman and friend would be unpleasant to her. There was, certainly, some unusual meaning in all this, and if Mortimer does not address Ethel, it will be because she will not allow him the opportunity. That is my opinion. Wait and see." It was agreed that Mrs. Lee should write the letter to Ethel, which she did, and the reader may imagine its character from the impres- sions which had been made upon her mind. With the best intentions in the world, after informing Ethel that Clinton was to be married soon, she intimated his want of constancy, his haste, and the probable influence of Miss Eustace's wealth over the better feelings of his nature. This she did not so much to lower Clinton in Ethel's opinion, as to excite her pride, and make her more easily forget him. She had become so much a convert to her husband's opinion about Mortimer's in- clinations as to delicately hint that a better fortune awaited her in, the love of a purer, nobler, and even   THE FATE OF THE .UNION.     217 -more accomplished gentleman from her own section. "If he shall propose Ethel,"' said she in her letter, "it is the ardent desire of my husband and myself, that you may fancy and accept." We convey the reader only for a few moments to Richmond to see how this letter was received. Ethel turned paler than usual as .she glanced over it. She thought for a moment how well she had loved Clinton, how willingly, under appropriate circumstances, she would have united her fate with his. But the news of his approaching union with another excited no re- proachful feelings in her bosom. To yield him for ever, was a bitter but momentary struggle. The same firmness which caused her to adhere to her first deter- mination, sustained her in this trying hour, and her pride and self-respect enabled her to read the letter with less emotion, and the secret, heartfelt desire, that Clinton might be happy with his new love, and in all the relations it would impose upon him. She was at no loss to conjecture to whom Mrs. Lee alluded, as she stated that it had not been very long since she saw him at Woodlawn. Colonel and Mrs. Somers both read the letter, and neither could see any perceptible change in Ethel's countenance or behavior. 'CHAPTER      XXI. WE now take the reader back to New York. Mary Raymond was sleepless most of the night'which fol- lowed the departure of Mrs. Lee. She pondered long the scene of the apparition which had appeared to 10    218     -  'T'L SOMERS ; OR, Ethel at the Naiad bower. To her it seemed an unac- countable occurrence. From all she had heard of Ethel, she could not doubt the clearness, the beauty, and even, the uncommon strength of her intellect. Nothing before or since that strange event had afforded the least reason to doubt its perfect sanity. Not one of her most intimate friends could point to a single act or word indicative of the slightest aberration. The vision had occurred at the hour of noon, on a bright and beautiful day. Not a cloud was visible in the heavens, -not even a fleecy gathering of the atmosphere floated like a spirit-car on the azure. skies. All was bright, serene, and checkered only with the variegated hues of the green foliage of the trees, the roses, and other flowers, which sweetly clustered about her, and the sunbeams which danced uponi the waters of the amber-colored brook which rolled in purling murmurs at her feet. Ethel was awake, conscious of all that passed, gazed upon the beautiful spirit, heard the tones of its melodious voice, and saw it dissolve like a white mist, and disappear. "There must be,'"thought she to herself, " some mysterious meaning in that visit of the wandering spirit. Perhaps it was a message from the skies. It certainly had reference to Clinton's and Ethel's love." Mary Raymond had seen Ethel once, and remembered her as the heart cherishes the tones of a sweet voice in early life, or a strain of heavenly music in days long flown away. Her face, her form, but above all, her eyes-revealing the holiness of her spirit-were things the memory of which, she felt, would linger in her heart forever. The more so now, as a mystic sympathy--sad but filling the soul-drew Ethel to her as if by the tender ties of a sister's love. Her own heart had felt the keen torture of disappoint- ,      \   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      21    ment in its bitterest form. This made her more sensi- tive on the subject of what she imagined would be the disappointment of Ethel. Clinton's conduct was strange, inconsistent, and unaccountable. She had 'known him long, and ever esteemed -him as ,a paragon of manly virtue and honor. In endeavoring to reconcile his conduct with his previous charaoter, she remembered that on two or three recent occasions, when conversing with her, he had expressed himself in strange and mysterious language. Some expressions which did not strike her at the time as having any personal ap- plication in reality, were now vividly recalled. They were in substance, these: "The world, Miss Raymond, often condemns our conduct because it cannot see the secret power of fate, or the cruel pressure of necessity which shapes it. Were I to become a victim of the heartless jeer, yea, the venomed hiss of the world around me, it would plant stings of insufferable poison in my heart to know that you, and a few others, here and at a distance, might also misconceive my motives. That is a cruel necessity which decrees an act our own heart condemns, but which, from its very nature, can- not'be explained." Miss Raymond was firmly im- pressed with the idea that Clinton alluded to himself and to his expected marriage with Miss Eustace. She could conceive of no reason at the time, for supposing that he was about to be placed in such a situation as he had described. But now she imagined she could see the whole scope of his-enigmatical remarks.. That which she then considered as a mere generality of sen- timent, now seemed to be plainly applicable to him-, self. Thus impressed, and doubly anxious on her own and Ethel's account, she resolved to lay delicacy aside, at least so far as to- endeavor to draw from him the , ,   220   .  'ihEiL SOMERS; OR, secret which seemed so imminently to threaten his char. acter, his peace of mind, and the happiness of Ethel Somers. The reader can fully appreciate the character of Miss Raymond. Her chief happiness had consisted in doing'good, and a new field seemed to be opened for the exercise of her heavenly inclinations.. Her re- gard for Clinton, and her love for Ethel Somers, were the propelling motives; and the reader will justify her determination, however it may seem to involve her in an indelicate adventure. On the following day, when she was meditating how to see Clinton without formally seeking an interview. she was relieved by the announcement that he had called. She lost no time in making her appearance, so anxious was she to unriddle the mystery to which we have alluded.  Clinton soon explained the object of his visit: "Our friendship, Miss Raymond," said he, "has existed from early youth. It has been inti- mate, and has known no change. My  esteem for you has reached the degree of homage, and knowing, as I do, your exalted goodness and worth, I felt desirous to state to you that-in four days from this time I am to be married to Miss Adaline Eustace. I  have not, ere this, revealed the fact to any one, save my father and mother. I   ami desirous to retain your good-will and esteem, and for that reason will frankly confess to you the reasons which have impelled me to the choice of Miss Eustace for a wife." Clinton then explained to Miss Raymonld the nature of his father's difficulties, his proposal to Ethel, its rejection by her, and the reason for it, and concluded by expressing the hope that she would not condemn   and forsake him, whatever, others might think of his conduct. "It is true," said -he, "I cannot give my heart to Miss Eustace, neither do I *..    THE FATE OF THE UNION.      221 hope to receive hers, as I fondly dreamed- at one time to obtain that of the woman who should become my wife, but my relations with her in all other respects shall be guarded, and maintained with the most scrupu-s lous regard to honor." "I am glad that you have called, Mr. Clinton," observed Miss Raymond, " for I have felt deeply interested both in your welfare and that of Miss Somers. What you have said to me shall be treated with the strictest confidence. Were Miss' Eustace out of the question, there- seems to be a barrier between you and Miss Somers of exceeding difficulty, and connected with that is a most extraordinary occur- rence which happened at Woodlawn. It is so inti- mately associated with-the point of difference which has estranged you and Ethel, that I will relate it to you as I heard it from the lips of Mrs. Lee." Clinton listened to the story of the beautiful spirit with the most absorbing- interest. His excitement was too marked to -be unperceived by Miss Raymond. His color came and went as she proceeded, and as she finished the story, his face became exceedingly pale, and exhibited a cast of deep thoughtfulness and melan- choly solicitude. Little had he imagined before, that the scene of his dream was the picture of a reality. It made his soul the sport of troubled thoughts, of solemn fears, of almost maddeningimpulses. He had seen the vision twice in his fitful slumber. Only two evenings before it had spoken its warning words in his ear, and announced that its mission was ended. It is not sur- prising that he should have felt so keenly the per- plexity of his situation. In each case the destiny of the union, if not the principal theme, was the moving object of the wandering spirit. He felt that it had arisen from the tomb, or descended from the skies, or   222      ETHEL SOMEXS; OR, emerged from its secret hiding-place upon earth, not because-of its interest in Ethel or himself, but for the sake of his country. Thus the importance of its visit and its revelations were greatly enhanced in his estima- tion. It was something too solemn to be treated lightly,.or brushed away, as one awakening in the morning would brush off the poppy dews of sleep. Still he saw no escape from the coil of circumstances which surrounded him. "Ethel loves you," said Miss Raymond, after a few moments' pause. "In her you would find every virtue, grace and charm that woman -could bring to make earth an Elysium for you." "It is too late now," said Clinton; "my word is pledged, nor have I assurance that my offer would be accepted if again renewed, even were I to yield to terms the very nature of which demands of 'me the sacrifice of independence of opinion. Lee is aware of my engage- ment with Miss Eustace. Ethel, doubtless, will soon know it, and I could not hope to retain her affection after what has transpired here. I have scarcely dared to hope; that I might retain your esteem, even after a full explanation of the necessity which has shaped my conduct against the wishes of my heart." "But, Mr. Clinton," said Miss Raymond, " remember the vision; that has a meaning. Could you not postpone your marriage, and await events?" "I will think of that. I would gladly do so, but I fear my fate is sealed." Clinton had scarcely reached the corner of the street on which Mrs. Raymond's house was situated, as he was returning home after this interview, when he was met by Mortimer, who- said, "I have just called at ;your father's, Clinton, being anxious to talk with you a little more bere e leaving the city. I go south to- morrow  morning*"  "South!" said Clinton. "I     thought you were going to Saratoga, Newport, and other places, with your friends who accompanied you upon your recent arrival." "I have this morning in- formed them," said Mortimer, "ofthe necessity of my return to the South. Business of serious importance causes me to change my purposes. I thought before I left I would call and see your pretty and almost incomparably excellent friend, Miss Raymond, and I am now on my way to her mother's residence., Will you not accompany me?-", "I am just from there," said Clinton, "or I would be pleased to do so. "Call in at my stopping place, then," said Mortimer, -"-in an hour from now. I cannot feel reconciled to leave New York without exchanging a few more words with you, especially uponthe subject which engaged our at- tention when we were last together." "I will take pleasure in calling," said Clinton. "I have engagements which will consume an hour, after which I shall be at your service." CHAPTER XXII. WE pass over all immaterial topics of conversation . between Clinton and Mortimer when they met, to come, directly to the one of greatest importance in connection with the events and objects of our story. "I was speaking to you, Clinton, when we last conversed upon political questions, of the course England would take in the event of the separation of the free and the slave states.: I think both have a right to conclude that our English cousins are as much governed by self-interest as any other people on the globe. It is not necessary as - t h g   224       'tHEL SOMERS OR, for me to cite instances to prove that to you. Indeed, on that point, you coincided with me in opinion. I referred to the fact that England was your great an- tagonist in manufacturing, shipping, and commercial interests. She is even more dependent upon the South for cotton than you are; for a single crop withheld from her would convulse her with revolution. V Would she risk that for the North? Her national debt is now over three thousand eight hundred millions of dollars. We talk of a millstone about the neck of an individual. That is a pretty considerable millstone about the neck -of our old mother country. Our cotton enables her to- bear the weight of it and keep above water. But for that, and the taxes she imposes upon everything within her dominions, she- could not maintain her civil list and pay the annual interest upon this atlantean debt. The day in which she fails to meet the interest will be the day of her doom. She knows it well, and hence she will hug to her bosom such a customer as the South. In the event of disunity, you could not pup- ply her with the life-blood--the very vitality-of her existence. The South could. A drowning man would not catch at a piece of plank when he could as easily seize upon a life-preserving boat." 'I think, Mortimer," said- Clintonj, you under- estimate the ability of England to get on without the cotton of the South. She can look to Egypt, Mexico, and her own Indies. She has been making extensive experiments in growing cotton in her own colonial possessions in the East." . "True," replied Mortimer; "but -they have proven to be extensive and expensive failures, and they will continue to prove such. Doubt- less, England would play fair, if she could, and stand by'heir professi'ons of hatred of our southern institution.   THE FATE OF THE UNION. .     225 She has given evidence to the world of her sincerity, by abolishing slavery in her West India possessions. But she cannot do it. She would be compelled to wink at slavery in the South, for fear her eyes would close in the sleep of death-if she did not. I have alludedto the emancipation of the slaves in Jamaica. You are not ignorant of the result. Hundreds of the richest sugar and coffee plantations of that ill-fated island have been abandoned; a hundred thousand laborers de- prived of employment; four hundred thousand acres of land, the richest in the island, given up to the rank weeds of tropical growth; hundreds of families have been reduced to poverty and want; thousands of houses, many of them beautiful and costly structures, are in a state of :dilapidation and ruin-the haunts of reptiles, owls, and croaking birds of evil omen, instead of being the abodes of happy and prosperous subjects." "But the principle of freedom has been established there,'! said Clinton. '"The negro is no longer a slave." "Ah, indeed!" said Mortimer; " but he is worse than a slave. ;English travelers themselves not only de- scribe the island as a scene of universal desolation, but they speak of the blacks as being the laziest, most ignorant, debased, and poverty-stricken population on the globe. Once they were contented and happy, under the guidance and protection of their masters. Now they are beggars-some of them    starving- on the richest soil in the world; full of care, im- provident, and not knowing to-day where they will obtain food to keep soul and body together to- morrow. That is freedom with a vengeance, Such is the condition to which northern abolitionists wiould reduce the states of the South. We hope to be ex- cused from such philanthropy, not for ourselves alone, lO*   226       ETIr'EL SOMERS; OR, butfor the sake of our slaves.' "But you cannot deny, Mortimer, that slavery has a-demoralizing ten- dency," said Clinton. "I saw evidences of that in such of your towns as Is chanced to see on my brief visit to the South"' - "If you mean to say, Clinton, that the condition of the slaves is more demoralizing to them than that of the whites in other sections, who occupy a correspondent position to other classes, I must deny the position. There are thousands of slaves who occu- py decent and respectable positions, among themselves, in- all the relations of husbands and wives, parents and children. That there are many immoralities among them I will not dispute; but such will be found in all other societies, especially those called the free societies of the old world. If you allude to effects of the insti- tution upon the whites, I would venture the opinion ,that there is more immorality in the city of New York, in any given year than in any slave state of the Union in'the same period of time. If you refer to the com- mission of crime-murder, rape, manslaughter, assault, robbery, arson, riots, burglary, larceny, twindling, counterfeiting, forgery, pocket-picking, &c., the statis- tics of the two sections will show that, according to the population of each,' you quadruple us in some, and double us in all. -Some of the statistics which have been given to the discredit of the South, were, but miserable falsehoods; such as the statement of an English captain (Marryatt), which I have recently seen -alluded to in a southern publication, that there were fifty-nine assassinations committed in open day in the city of Augusta, Georgia, in a single year, and that, too, without any notice having been taken of them by the authorities. Backing the proposition of the author of the publication alluded to, made to- the State of A   'Massachusetts, I would be willing, Clinton, to become anrbolitionist, and prove a traitor to my own section, if it can be shown that a single assassination was ever committed in the city of Augusta without being noticed by the authorities, or that as many homicides were ever committed in that city since the Union was established. This statement was, like others, ignor antly, if not falsely, made of other sections of the South." iHere the conversation was interrupted by the approach of a white servant, who handed a note- to Edward Clinton. "I regret, Mortimer," said he, when he had perused the note, " that I must leave you for the present. My father wishes to see me as soon as pos-  sible. Imay have it in my power to call and see you again; but if I should not, I hope, at some future time, to have the pleasure of hearing you more at large upon the interesting! subject which has engaged our attention. I shali be happy to see youwheneveryou may visit our city." "And I shall be equally happy, Clinton, to see you in New Orleans. You must come to the South again. I am anxious that you should see us aswe are, and not through the false media which have been put forth so much to our prejudice and to the unfortunate estrangement of the people of the two sectionS. Perhaps I may not see you again. Vasious matters will occupy my attention out of doors du g the balance of the day." The two friends separated, with mutual esteem and good will,  ' Here is a note," said the elder Clinton to Edward, as soon as he reached home, " which was sent you by Mr. Conway, the uncle of Miss Eustace The beare was instructedlto wait for an answer. I stated to him that you were out, but I wouldhand it toyou, and a reply would be sent as soon as you retned." The   228      UTRhEJL SOMERS; OR, note contained nothing more than a request of Mr. Conway, that he would afford him an interview onche following morning at such time and place asche might suggest. To this, Clinton sent a reply, appointing an hour and the place of meeting. CHAPTER XXIII. THE reader will now accompany us to Richmond, Virginia. Mortimer has already arrived there. Colonel Somers met him with great politeness and cordiality; Mrs. Somers with a graceful warmth of feeling; Ethel with a smile and demeanor evincive of her sincere esteem; Miss Isabel Lee with the winning naivet8 of one who looked upon Mortimer as a friend of the family. The reader will understand the nature of this reception, when it is remembered that Mortimer was the friend and companion of. Charles Somers in his difficulty/ at New York, and remained with him and watched over him like a brother to the last. Nothing -so readily endears one to the heart as kindness to those it loves, especially in the trying scenes of affliction and dissolution. Nothing was wanting, therefore, to intro- duce Mortimer to their respectful, kind, and even affectionate sympathies. It is due to him to state that he was totally ignorant of all that had passed between Clinton and-Ethel, and was 'unconscious that the latter had experienced any cause of mental anxiety, -save that of her brother's sad fate and death. He was of too generous and noble a nature to seek to interfere, frim selfish considerations, in a matter of mutual faith f '        #              THE FATE OF THE UNION.      229 and love. But, even if he had been aware of 'their past relations, he could not be charged with intrusion in so delicate a matter, when it was not only at an end, but one of the parties was on the eve of marriage. During the next, few days, Mortimer became a great favorite with Colonel Somers, not only because of his merits as a man, but from the striking similarity of their views in reference to public men and measures. Mortimer, so far as the rights of the South were con- cerned, was a man after his own heart. Having be- come more attached to him, the more he saw and knew him, he invited him to accompany himself and family in their pursuit of health and change in the various charming retreats for which the Old Dominion is so justly celebrated. No persuasion was necessary to secure his acceptance of an invitation which opened  before him so fine an opportunity to gratify at once the secret longings of his heart, and his taste in view- ing and contemplating so extensive a field of nature's sublimities and beauties. But it is not our purpose to follow them in -their summer rambles, either to detail minutely the incidents of their excursions, or describe the variegated scenery of the places and sections which they visited. . It was a season of unalloyed pleasure to Mortimer.  He would often accompany Ethel and Isabel Lee in delightful rides upon horseback, diverging from the beaten highways to look at a lovely cascade, or enjoy the sublime and picturesque scenery and plue breezes of the neighboring hills. Ethel and Isabel were both fond of horseback exercise, and Mortimer thought they looked like two queens of beauty as-they rode so gracefully, the former upon a milk white, and the latter, a coal black, steed, both spirited but gentle, which he had selected for them. These beauti- x. t  ,    230       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, ful animals cantered Fwith nimble gracefulness, as if proud of the beauty of their riders. Mortimer had watched the features of Ethel day by day, and was pleased to'see the hue of health returning to her cheeks. He thought he had never seen before a complexion so bright and delicately roseate as Ethel's, when slightly flushed by the excitement and exercise of these horse- back rides.  With her flowing robes, her bonnet slightly thrown back upon her head, while the breeze toyed with her richly-tinted tresses-erect, graceful, firmly holding the reins of the bridle as her horse, im- patient, champed his bit and pranced with pride, while her bright--eyes sparkled, and a delicate, rosy hue mantled her soft, white cheek-Mortimer was trans- ported, in imagination, to some vale of romance to find a parallel. But Isabel Lee was little less striking in the beauty and splendor of her personal bearing. She dashed on with more gayety and spirit, for her heart was lighter, and her laugh was -merry as the silver tones of a bell. Thus, for several weeks, did Mortimer pass his time. Ethel never participated in the gayeties of the ball-room, and Isabel was more fre- quently the partner of Mortimer than of any other genr tleman in the gay and enlivening dance. During this time, Mortimer was assiduous in his attentions to these charming ladies, and by degrees disclosed to Ethel the cherished hopes and feelings of his heart. Colonel and Als. Somers were secretly gratified at the increasing symptoms of his affection for Ethel, and when at last he confessed his love, they urged her to accept. And why should she not? Mortimer was handsome, polished, generous, intellectual, and noble-minded; nor was he wanting in that which the world generally estimates above all these-an ample fortune. Ethel's   THE FATE OF THS UNION .   ,  iO1 self-respect demanded of her to banish Clinton from her thoughts. When Mortimer solicited her hand, she had every reason to believe that Clinton had then beeni several weeks a married man. Mortimer was accepted, and he and Ethel were bound by mutual vows. CHAPTER XXIV. THus matters stood when, in September, they re- turned to Richmond, where they were to be joined by Mr. and Mrs. Lee. When they reached Richmond, Mrs. Somers and Ethel found letters there from Mrs. Lee, in one of which they were informed that the time for Clinton's marriage with Miss Eustace had been postponed; that Mrs. Ray- mond, the mother of Mary Raymond, was dangerously- ill; and that, at the pressing solicitations of the latter, they would remain in New York for a short time. The next mail brought another letter from'Mrs. Lee to Ethel, conveying the sad intelligence of Mrs. Ray- mond's death. "It was a sad'sight," wrote Mrs. Lee, "to witness her dissolution and Mary's grief. But she 'died happy. She was ready to go. I never saw an instance of more perfect submission to the divine will. She illustrated the sentiment, that "' Death is the crown of life.' Her last looks were bright with-hopes of a happy im- mortality. She died last night at the hour of twelve. Maternal tenderness and filial love were beautifully, though mournfully, exhibited in the parting scene                - . d    232       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, between her and Mary. Our bereaved friend is more calm to-day. Her spirit has been subdued by afflic- tion, and the world seems now to have lost most of its charms for her. But such is earthly experience. Mrs. Raymond will be consigned to the grave to-morrow., Mary has consented to accompany us to Woodlawn, and it will be necessary to remain here a few days longer. I will advise you when to expect us." Why need we dwell upon the feelings of Mary Ray% mond, when, after her mother's burial, every object that met her eye at home reminded her of her tender- ness and love? Her doating father had gone down to the grave when she was scarcely .old enough to ap- preciate his cheering words of love and wisdom, and / now her dear angel mother, whose face had ever beamed upon her with' tenderest affection, was sleeping by his side. "Sweet is the image of the brooding dove, Holy as heaven a mother's tender love- The love of many prayers and many tears, Which changes rnot with dim, declining years I The only love which, on this teeming earth, Asks no return for passion's wayward birth."' Earth can show no devotion equal to a mother's love. In starvation, she ministers to her child the last morsel, though hunger may be preying upon the attenuated threads of her own vitality. She struggles for it till death releases all effort, and claims her as its victim. She loves it in life, in death, and for ever. A mother's memory should be quenchless as the sun.. In Mary Raymond's heart, an altar of filial devotion was erected, which death alone could crumble. She left her home, looking sadly back to catch its last glimpse, and when distance hid it from her view, her thoughts lingered in   THE FATE OF THE UNION.'      233 the dying chamber and in the cold, unfeeling grave. Mrs. Norman was left in charge of her residence, and Edward Clinton acted as her attorney and friend. Mary Raymond was received at Richmond with as much affection as if she had been a daughter" or a sister just returning home after a long absence. She came not with the light heart of youthful happiness and hope. Though young, she had drank deep from sor- roW's bitter cup, and that made her the object of the tenderest solicitude and attention. Benevolence, grief and beauty were mirrored in union upon her face. She and Ethel met like two long-divided sisters, whose hearts had beat in responsive sympathies in absence, and now commingled their overflowing feelings in loving embraces 'and congenial tears. Nothing was left undonehby the friends, in whose kind keeping she was placed, to divert her thoughts from painful recol- lections. She felt as much at ease, and as confiding in all the sacred sympathies of friendship, as though she had known them for a lifetime, and only to love them. Nothing now existed to detain Colonel Somers and his party at Richmond, and on the second day after the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Lee and Mary Raymond, they left for Mississippi.             * The reader would take no interest in descriptions of places on the route, nor did anything occur worthy of special mention. We will, therefore, transfer him or her to Woodlawn and its neighborhood, where the friends of whom we are writing safely arrived in two weeks after their departure from Richmond, having occasionally stopped for a'day or two at a time at places of most attraction, for the double purposes of rest and observation.' The fall season had come-that lovely season when the varied hues of the. forest and   234      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, the gardens, so gorgeous and bright, indicated the death of the summer glories of the year, and the ap- proach of winter. No where is the Fall more beautiful than in the South. The woods then present a grand masquerade of nature, clothed in all the variegated and rich hues of the rainbow. Mary Raymond often expressed her admiration of the scenes through which she passed, and that which opened to her view at Woodlawn. She took pleasure in walking out to behold the woods glittering under a bright autumnal sun, in their rich robes of orange and crimson, purple and red. Here was the leaf of gold, there the vermilion, and yonder the green, which the frost had not touched as yet with its magic wand, or nature had placed beyond the con- trol of the season. . How natural it' is that we should connect this melancholy season- with the decay of health and the final rest of the tomb, especially when those whom we love are sleeping there I Mary thought mournfully of her mother's grave, and had been but 'a brief time at Woodlawn before she sought that of- Charles Somers. The sight of the spot where lay all that was once so dear to her, opened afresh the fountain of her sympathies, and she wept bitterly at the thought that no voice or offering of love could reach his ear, or call him to life again. The sun had gone down to its evening rest, and the western sky, which had been glowing like the gates of heaven, was clothed in a soft and beautiful carmine when first she beheld it. It was a clear and cloudless eve. The dew was gently falling, and the winds moaned sadly, in unison with her spirit, among the, branches of the beautiful. evergreens which surrounded his -grwe. She plucked a white rose from a vine which gently rested upon his   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       235 tomb. It was fragrant, like the memory of his love, and she placed it in a casket to preserve as a relic of the resting-place of her lover. Her tears fell fast upon her pallid cheeks; but her soul found some relief in this, opening of the fountains of sympathy.    She lingered on the spot so sacred to her heartuntil the stars, one after another, peeped forth from the high vault of heaven. They were beautiful and grand, but the grave before her, in which rested the relics of Charles, was more attractive than they. The tenderest ties lay buried there; hopes, once brighter than these glittering sentinels of night. Oh, stricken spirit! you bend now like the weeping willow, but look up; look beyond the grave to the blue festal skies. Weave your garlands for the grave; bedew  it with holy tears; cherish in the core of memory the virtues of the dead. But, listen 1 do you not hear an angel's harp? Oh I wait a little, and you will join its happy strain, with an angel's harp of your own, when you, too, shall pass the portals of the grave I "Come, my dear Mary," said Ethel, in gentle and tender tones, "I have hesitated to intrude upon the sanctity of your feelings, but it is growing late, the air is becoming chilly, and you must not be exposed to the falling dews." As she said this, she placed her arm around her waist, and they returned to the house together. The reader must be informed that Mortimer, after remaining a few days at Woodlawn, returned to New Orleans. Ethel preferred a postponement of her mar- riage with Mortimer until the following spring, and of course no time had been set for its consummation. The reader will remember that it was stated in the last preceding chapter, that Clinton, in response to a   -                  ; j' 236       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, note from Mr. Conway, asking for an interview with him, had suggested that it should take place on the- following morning. The meeting occurred at the ap- pointed time, at which Mr. Conway informed Clinton that it was desirable, for reasons which it was not necessary to explain, that his marriage with his niece should be postponed for the present. This was a per- plexing proposition to Clinton, for he was aware that his fatherts condition had reached a crisis. Indeed, it had been already whispered in some circles that his affairs were in a complicated state, and several of his largest creditors were extremely uneasy. "Your proposition, Mr. Conway," replied Clinton,- "takes me by surprise. I would respectfully inquire if it was made with the cognizance of Miss Eustace?" "I assure you it is, sir," said Mr. Conway. "I have conversed with my niece upon the subject." "Deeply interested as I am in this matter, Mr. Conway, I should prefer to postpone a definite reply to your proposal, until I can haveda personal interview with your niece." "Certainly," replied Mr. Conway. "There can be no - objection to that. You can see her When it may be agreeable to yourself." "I will call, sir," said Clinton, "in two hours from this time." Mr. Conway remained but a short time longer, and retired, having been court- eous and respectful throughout the interview. After an exchange of the usual civilities, when he called u4pon Miss Eustace, Clinton stated to her the proposition of her uncle, and inquired respectfully, -if it was her desire that it should be adhered to? "It is, Mr. Clinton," said Miss Eustace, with an air of hauteur, anid a tone evincive of strong feeling, tinged with some appearance of ill-suppressed resentment. "I am both surprised and pained at your manner, Miss Eustace,"   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      237 observed Clinton. "Please explain. Have I given any cause of offence? I assure you, if you have im- agined any to exist, it is without foundation in reality." "Perhaps you are mistaken, Mr. Clinton; inthat declara- tion. Here are two letters; one addressed to my uncle, the other to myself. It is true they are anonymous, but they bertainly are well calculated to excite my fears, and dictate the propriety of the course which my uncle suggested to you." The letter to Mr. Conway read as follows: "S;r: As a friend of yourself and of Miss Eustace, I would infornm you that Mr. Rufus Clinton, the father of Edward Clinton, is believed to be on the eve of bankruptcy. I trust you will not consider it intrusive in me to give you this information. You will find it to be based upton truth, and a week or two will prove it.       Respectfully, &c." The following were the contents of the letter to Miss Eustace:  "( Dear Miss: It is rumored that you are to be mar- ried, soon, to Edward Clinton, Esq. I know him well. By nature and education he is a gentleman. But in marrying him you will not obtain his heart. That'be- longs, by previous confession, to another. Necessity compels him to give up the woman he loves, for you. This I know. I could give particulars, but forbear. Mark my words: he does not love you. This is from one who would guard both of you against a union which would be founded upon motives sanctioned neither by reason, religion, love, or honor. "Sincerely, your friend, &c."   288       'rHiEL SOMERS; OR, Clinton's embarrassment upon reading these letters was by no means diminished when he first raised his eyes, and saw the stately dignity and formal bearing of Miss Eustace, and the unmistakable smile of corn- mingled mistrust and disdain which curled her lip; nor was he more encouraged by the flash of her dark eyes. It was evident that the odeasion required the exercise of his utmost skill. One letter revealed the secret of his father's difficulties. He could not deny lthe truth-of its statements. The other revealed his love for another, and turned his heart, as it were, inside out. He could not deny the truth disclosed in it. He was involved suddenly, and a pair of black eyes transfixed him with their keen and searching glances. He felt as if he had been suddenly put upon trial, and that suggest- ed to him the idea of making preparation. Hence he observed, without much delay: "These, Miss Eustace, are blows at me by persons in the dark. They are both evidently not written by the same person. One is the production of an enemy; while the other may have emanated from a mutual friend.  The writer makes very free with my. heart and its motives. I do not think, Miss Eustace, you should attach so much importance to these anonymous letters, as to make them the cause of postponing the consummation of our engagement." "I will put you upon your candor, Mr. Clinton. It is in your power to decide whether the cause for postponement is sufficient, or not. I Do you deny the truth of the statements of either letter?" "' I will not deny, Miss Eustace," replied he, "that my father has become somewhat embarrassed; that is fre- quently the fate, for a time, of mercantile men. My father, as others have done, can soon remove the diffi- culties which at present perplex him. I have not hes-   THE FATE OF. THE UNION. -    239 itated in offering my hand to you because rumor in- volved you in more than one affair of love. I should not doubt or esteem you the less were you to confess frankly, that another gentleman has possessed your affections for a time. I can assure you upon the honor of a man, that I am under no engagement, or obliga- tion of any kind in which the heart is concerned, to any other lady than yourself. I can give you no higher evidence of my sincerity and devotion than to say, that at the appointed time--now only three days off- I am willing to-unite my fat,e with yours in the most intimate of all relationships between man and woman." We will not dwell upon all that passed between Clinton and Miss Eustace at this interview. The lat- ter, between her offended pride and her fears of the elder Clinton's bankruptcy on the one hand, and her natural disposition to coquet on the other, insisted upon the postponement of the nuptial ceremony. Clinton was evidently depressed. She had never before seen him in that condition. Her vanity made her deem it a triumph; and she had no scruples in prolonging what she deemed her lover's pains. Clinton objected to a long postponement, and solicited the appointment of another and early day for their union. To this, Miss Eustace replied that she would give -him an answer in a few days. Clinton then bowed politely an d withdrew. When he returned home, he replied to his father's eager inquiry as to the natureof the in- terview with Mr. Conway, by explaining all that -had occurred at the place of meeting with Mr. Conway, and at his house. This was a new trouble to the elder Clinton. The days and weeks which had preceded the expected marriage of his son, had passed off with tardy movements; and now, when relief and triumph   40       -ETHEL SOMERS; OR, had seemed almost within his grasp, this postponement not only delayed them, but even threatened their total failure. "I fear,my son, the worst," said he. "UJpon the faith of your marriage, I have pledged my word to pay not less than fifty thousand dollars within ten days from the present time. That sum would sustain my credit, parry the evil stroke of fortune, and make the evening of my life brighter than its meridian. Urge this matter delicately, but promptly upon-Miss Eustace's attention. See her within the next three days, and ascertain her view as to the postponement of your marriage. As-soon as you-shall have made her your wife, I shall be able, without difficulty, to raise that sum, and with your assistance afterwards, it can be re- funded, and all will be well. Should you fail to marry her, or the wedding be delayed even for ten days, I shall be forced to yield to the impatience of creditors, and be subjected to the jeers of enemies and the pity of friends. You will see, then, my son, the difference between prosperity and adversity. I have seen so much of this bewildering, heartless world-so much to deceive-so many summer blooms of pretended fidelity, whose delusive fragrance was dissipated by even the first frost of adversity-that it is not surprising t6 me, however much it may seem so to you, that friend- ship should be said to exist only in name. Sickly flattery, with its bleared beams, is seen and heard upon every hand when fortune lights our pathway with her smiles; but in adversity's dark hour it vanishes like a midsummer's dream, leaving no trace behind. Vain and false, the heart sickens at its recollection. Look upon it and it is changed. Its smiles are gone. Its tones, once so musical, have become discordant. It   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      241 affords no prop upon which to rest-no friendly bridge over which to cross the stream of difficulty--no hand to help-no kindling eye to cheer." "Certainly, my father," said Edward Clinton, "you do not think thus of all mankind? I remember how, with warm and ex- alted phrase, you commended the kindness of some who are now in their graves-some who aided you in your youth, and even when once before you met with serious difficulty in middle life. I remember particularly your encomiums upon the friendship of Mr. Raymond, the -father of the most excellent Mary Raymond." "Oh- " said the elder Clinton; "H would not have you to un- derstand me to allude to all of our race. I referred only to the great masses, whether poor or rich. There are some exceptions; but for such exceptions I could not have maintained the appearance of extended fortune un- til now. Alas I one friend to whom I confided the secret of my misfortunes, and who aided me to the utmost ex- tent of his abilities, has; been unfortunate -himself. A part of the money which I need at present, is wanted on his account. That friend, as Mr. Raymond did, ' looked upon me in trouble with a softer sympathy, a sweeter smile. He said 6o me, 'We have lived devot- edly together when the balmy winds of fortune's spring breathed upon us both. A shadow is upon thee now. Misfortune blows its ichilling breath upon thee ," The time of heart-light and of song' shall not leave thee. I amrhere. I greet thee as in the days of our youth arid middle age. I give thee faith - in changing affection. Here is my heart, my hand, and my purse.' Oh, no, Edwardl it is not true that all friendship is but a name. It exists still in its native ' home-the hearts of the good and true. Some will   242       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, smile upon you face to face, and revile you when ab- sent. The world is full of the faithless of heart. Faith and fidelity are words which- turn to ashes upon their treacherous lips. They bow at but one shrine--the shrine of selfishness. They know no idol, no deity, but self. Their looks are false, their professions are false; and he, whose only reliance is upon them, will fall, crushed, forsaken, and hopeless. The -world, happily, is not-made up of such alone. There are-some whose friendship is like the light of the fixed stars. They are true when present, and true in absence.  The traitor's smile is never seen to pollute their lips. With them honor is no idle breath, and confidence is "' Never broken By the rude frosts that trample on the flowers Of all our best affections.'" CHAPTER XXV. CLINTON retired to his room, deeply impressed with the fervid feelings his father had exhibited, and the fact that-they were more immediately aroused by the troubles which were daily placing a deeper shadow upon-his brow. - He was aware that no man had ex- hibited greater energy in adversity, indeed, in all his business affairs, whether -.prosperous or adverse. But he had already passed his three score years. He had reached a time of life when he needed rest, at least an exemption from those struggles of life which try :so severely the mental and physical faculties. "How wialingly," thought he, " would I toil day and night to   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       243 prop him in his declining years. But I am young, have scarcely entered upon my professional career, and it is impossible that I can relieve. him now, when a crisis is at hand in his monetary affairs, Integrity, energy, and a proper dependence upon the Supreme, Ruler of the world, bestow the talisman of success, but they avail nothing in this hour of need. I wgill try once more the arts of eloquence, and use the magic wand of spiritual cunning, with the gay, coquettish Adeline. It was difficult to win her at first; now that the spell is broken, it will take almost a miracle." Clinton was totally unable even to imagine who had written the letters which Miss Eustace had handed hm at his last interview with her. He had never seen the handwriting of either before. They had produced the difficulty. His explanation had softened down the symptoms of Miss Eustace's displeasure. She had not noticed the cautiousness of his words. He had not actually denied the truthfulness of their statements. Still, in reflecting upon his language, she might have seen through their flimsy texture, and might put other questions to him, still more pointed than those pro- pounded before. "' But ' sufficient to the day, " thought he, " is the evil thereof.' When the necessity arises, I will endeavor in some way to whip the devil around- my conscience, so as to keep my soul steady -in captur- ing this gay butterfly of fashion. She has some heart, withal; more than I had attributed to her. She showed some signs of jealousy. That is truly a hateful Passion and a green-eyed monster, but its existence proves that the heart of its victim is not insensible to an interest. of some kind in thebeing concerning whomi some other one has aroused it to poisonous action. ;I was- wrong in thiffig Adeline that I would not love her less, evenf   244  :    ETHEL SOMERS; OR, 'should another gentleman have once possessed her affections. Yes! I will fly into a passion, show a 'mad dog's tooth,' and present my heart to her as an Etna of pains and fire, because of her gentle inclina- tions to another. These flames will counteract the phosphorescent lights of her own spirit. She will be won again by seeming adoration mingled with the mastery of superior passion. All minor difficulties wit be overlooked, forgotten, in the tempest of excite- ment, and Adeline shall yet be mine." Thus soliloquized Edward Clinton, once so pure and noble-minded. Alasl how frail is man. How easily, under the maddening pulse of passion wrought in the heart by circumstances of harrowing perplexity, he may be turned aside from the path of true virtue and honor. A few months previous to 'the time of which we write, Clinton would have scorned all low artifices and groveling designs. Then he was deliberating how he might win, not the pure heart and virtuous love of woman, but the person and fortune of a gay and heart- less coquette. "Nemo sic imparsibi." To this it may be urged in extenuation, that he was driven by his father's necessities to seek in marriage the means of relief, and that in doing so, in offering his hand where he could not give his heart, he had preferred the sacrifice of his own happiness, in a union with such a woman, rather than practice an imposition upon one whose' heart was the seat of mnoral purity, and every noble and gentle sentiment. His error was originally in de- parting-from the high aims of his own soul, and in not permitting conscience to maintain its dignity and su- premacy. True wisdom incites to honor, let conse- quences follow as they may. It would be better that a-parent should be reduced to comparative poverty,   THE FATE OF THE UNION. -                 245 than that the son should sacrifice the purity and lofti- ness of his virtue. -That is the armor of the soul which fortifies it for life's dangers and the grave's terrors. Trials, disappointments, misfortunes, all are light, com- pared with the pressure of moral immolation. The feeling which prompted Edward Clinton to act as the did, was one of the holiest that finds a home in the heart. It originated in filial love. But parental love is not wanting in the holiness of unselfish devotion. It could embrace poverty, want, the tomb, for the sake of its offspring. Clinton had not appealed to that. He had not appealed to his father to choose between the loss of fortune and his son's loss of honor and happiness. In that, consisted his great moral error, and he soon saw and felt its truth; for just as he had matured his plans-for overcoming theTscruples of Miss Eustace, he received a message from his father to meet him in his study. Mary Raymond had just left, having made a brief visit to Mrs. Clinton.. The reader will remember that we are now detailing events in our story which occurred nearly two months previous to the death of Mrs. Ray- mond, and the departure of Mary for the South. At this visit, she had informed Mrs. Clinton of Edward's want -of real affection for Miss Eustace; indeed, of nearly all that he had said to her on the subject of his present relationship with Miss Eustace. Mrs. Clinton lost no time in laying the whole matter before her hus- band. With this brief explanation, we proceed to state what occurred between the elder and the younger Clin- tons at the interview in the study of the former. "My son," said Mr. Clinton to Edward, "I have sent for you to ask you, a single question, and I desire you to give me a candid answer. Do you love Miss   246     .ETHEL SOMERS; OR, Eustace, and feel that you will be happy in 'a union with her? Edward Clinton, under the keen search- ing look of his father, blushed deeply at this question, "I see, my father," said he, "in your looks, and the earnestness of your manner, that you wish me to reply frankly to your question. I am constrained to say that I neither love her, nor expect to be happy in making her my wife." This question and reply led to a full disclosure of Edward Clinton's purposes and feelings. His father thanked him for his filial devotion, but at the same time remarked, "Time, my son, has silvered my-hair, and trouble has wrinkled my brow; but, I would sooner become the poorest man in this city, thagn owe my freedom from embarrassment to means obtained by the sacrifice of your happiness. You did not tell me of this, and I have supposed, from the first mention of Miss Eustace's name in connection with yours, that your fancy had led you to prefer her to the lovely and good being suggested by myself. I feel, Edward, that you were on the brink of ruin., I would advise you to make your escape without delay. ,Be not concerned for me. My mind is made up. I will dispose of my property, pay my creditors, and retire to my country residence, where I shall have a competence.- The very thought: of your escape from a fate so miserable, fills my heart with joy. Your mother thinks and feels as I do. I leave you to exercise your :diplomatic skill to the best advantage in freeing your- self from the evils of your present engagement with Miss Eustace. It may be that you will "find no diffi- culty in relieving yourself of them. Do so, and know that it will not only meet my approbation, but be to me and your motource of lasting joy." Clinton's emotions were sal-:lat he could scarcely utter his   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      247 profound acknowledgements of his father's disinterested love and kindness. He felt, almost in a moment, a '{    restoration of his self-respect, and of all those high and noble sentiments which had been temporarily smoth:- ered in his bosom. His heart was lighter than it had been for months. He could bear the pain of losing Ethel, but it was intolerable to think of dragging out a hypocritical existence with a woman whom he could neither love or esteem. The elder Clinton spent the evening which followed this interview in writing letters to some of his creditors, and in arranging his plans for the sale of his real estate in the city, and the disposition of his other property. He then retired for the night, experiencing a serenity of mind to which he had been a stranger for many anxious weeks. Upon breaking open one of several letters which had, been handed him on the following morning, the elder Clinton exclaimed, "What is this? A check for fifty thousand dollars drawn in my favor I What does this mean?  But let me read the letter." It was as follows: "RUFUS CLINTON, ESQ., New York City: "My Dear Sir: Inclosed please find a check for fifty thousand dollars. The motive which influences the individual who places it in your possession, need not be explained. I trust it will be necessary for me to say, only, that it is sent you by a friend.: Please accept and use it. When fortune shall rise like a new sun upon you, after a dark, and cloudy night, and cover your pathway with its glowing beams, you may be called on to refund the -sum it will place at your disposal; otherwise, you may nevey know from whom it came. Of this much, however, 'you may be assured: s?,           248       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, it is sent by one who feels a deep interest in the pros- perity of yourself and family. "I remain, my dear sir, sincerely, "YOUR UNKNOWN FRIEND." "What does the letter say?" eagerly exclaimed both Mrs. Clinton and Edward at the same moment. Mr. Clinton handed .it to them without speaking a word. His heart was too full to speak. Removing his specta- cles, he placed his hands over his face, and burst into tears. Adversity often wounds the sensibilities of the stoutest hearts. It leaves them tender, and extremely susceptible to impressions of wrong or kindness. Mr. ;Clinton's had been so finely wrought by its incessant blasts, that this sudden change was more than he could bear, and nature showed its grateful weakness in this outhurst of emotion. The occasion, however, was one of joy, not of sorrow; and as Mr. Clinton cleared away his tears, it was difficult to tell whose face of the three exhibited the most pleasing expressions. Mrs. Clinton and Edward both fancied an almost instantaneous change in Mr. Clinton's looks.  He seemed happier than they had seen him for a long time, and they re- joiced at it. But why need we dwell upon the scene? The reader can imagine more than words can express.- "Here, father, are these letters," observed Edward, "which you requested me to take to the post office." "Oh I " said Mr. Clinton, "I had liked to have forgotten them. I will take them back." "You requested mealso to see Mr.  , and Mrs. ---, to-day, in reference to your tenements on   street. What shall I do about that?"  "' You may wait further instructions," said his father. "Wel, will we move to the country?" said Mrs. Clinton. "That, my dear," replied Mr. i  *   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      249 Clinton, fwill be reserved for future consideration." "I really believe," said Mrs. Clinton, "this check has upset all of our recent plans. There must be-wonder- ful efficacy in a check." "There certainly is," said Mr. Clinton, " when it represents fifty thousand dollars in value." i "Well, father," said Edward, "what will you say to-day about friendship's being only a name?" "I don't know, Edward," said Mr. Clinton, "that I -have anything to take back from what I said yester- day. This is one of the instances of an exception to the general rule. The person who sent this is one of the spirits who keep vigils over earth's purity and loveliness, and preserves it, if not incontaminate, at least free from the absolute despotism of hollow heart- lessness. Friendship is a precious boon of heaven. It plants roses and flowers along the journey of life. But for its sustaining power, life would be a bloomless, cheerless desert, in which man would prey upon his fellow man, and make the world a perpetual chaos of hateful and contending passions. Friendships, how- ever limited, are found in every community and circle of life. No man ever-felt a devoted attachment to another, without experiencing a softening and re- fining influence upon his entire nature. Friendship harmonizes the soul, and thus prepares one to embrace the heaven-inspired doctrine of peace on earth and good will to man. It arouses new and generous impul- ses, fills the shul with noble charities and generous rap- tures, and converts it, as far as can be, into a moral gar- den upon earth,a paradise of social and intellectual joys." "I thought, father," said Edward, " you had exhausted the subject of friendship, in our conversation on yes- terday; but I believe you have been more eloquent now than you were then. Fifty thousand -dollars, however,      D.^LJLU UaMJ^S; OR) sent down from the clouds, or it matters not from- where, are well calculated to sharpen the understand. ing and keep fancy on the wing." "Well, my dear husband," said Mrs. Clinton, "have you any idea who sent thisprecious piece of paper?" "It is postmark. ed at Philadelphia," replied Mr. Clinton, "and I know of but one or two persons there, who could have sent it. I shall write to each of them on the subject. I am anxious to know. I feel under an obligation which will be positively oppressive, unless I can express my gratitude to the friend who has placed me under it. I will, at some other time, relate to you, Edward, an in- stance of ingratitude  which came under my own observation. The memory of that makes me shudder at the very thought of   being ungrateful." Mr Clinton took his check to the --  bank.   Instead of drawing the money, he received a certificate of its deposit, and thus the control of that large sum was placed, beyond contingency, at his disposal. Mr. Clinton lost no time in returning the money to his kind friend, who now stood so greatly in need of it, and was able to meet all the engagements which had- threatened a  catastrophe in his financial affairs. To none were the effects of this change of fortune upon his personal appearance so visible, as to his im- mediate family.  The face is often clothed in smiles when the heart throbs with care. Pride had made Mr.. Clinton hide his troubles, under the guise of security when abroad; but nature cannot, always conceal its griefs,- and his family had! discovered them, even before he had admitted the extent of his misfortunes. But now they were happy to see a return of his former lively and resolute expression, especially in the renew- ed luster of his bright, black eyes.   CHAPTER XXVI. THE reader will imagine a few days to have passed, and Clinton seated in Mr. Conway's parlor, awaiting the appearance of Miss Eustace. Instead of Miss E., Mr. Conway entered, the-room, and after a brief, gene- ral conversation, he said, "My niece is so engaged that she begs you to excuse her for not seeing you at the present time. She also instructs me to say to you, that she' would prefer to postpone the consummation of her engagement with you for at least a month; and it is my duty to say to you, also, that I trust it will not be dis- agreeable to you, at a suitable time, previous to that event, to sign an instrument in writing, which may be beneficial to both of -you in the future." These pro- positions which, under other circumstances, might have been extremely annoying, afforded Clinton much se- cret gratification. With an assumed seriousness of look and manner, he replied: "Occupying,' as you do, the relationship of guardian of Miss Eustace, it may not be improper in me to inquire if the proposal,\ in refer- ence to the instrument in writing, is a suggestion of yours alone?" "It is immaterial, Mr. Clinton, whose suggestion it originally was. It is equally the desire of my niece and myself that it should be complied, with." "It is due to myself, to you, and to Miss Eustace," observed, Clinton, " that I should state with candor, the propositions you make me are such as I cannot comply with." "Then, sir," said Mr. Conway, "I will return to you this ring which you presented to my niece. She handed it to me, with the -request that I O        v         d"    252       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, should return it' you, with the express understanding that she would consider her obligation to 'you at an end, should, you decline to comply." "Certainly, sir," replied Clinton. "I acceptit with that understanding, and in' doing so, I hope not to have forfeited your good will, or the esteem bf Miss Eustace." "You have a right, Mr. Clinton," said Mr. Conway, "-to decide be- tween an acceptance of the terms proposed, or a disso, lution of the engagembnt. I see no cause in your decision to withhold my friendly regard-for you, nor do I believe my niece will see tny to make her cease to- esteem you as a friend." Clinton then parted with Mr. Conway upon terms of mutual politeness, having requested him to present his compliments to' Miss Eustace. It is difficult to say which of the two. cared / --the least at this termination- of an affair, in which the heart of neither was interested. It is an easier matter to decide who was most pleased. Clinton rejoiced at his freedom, and took to his legal studies with renew- ed determination and devotion. Miss Eustace dashed on in her gay career, followed, as before, by a train of admirers as thoughtless -as herself. Not long after this, Clinton met Miss Eutacde at a fashionable party. The meeting was marked with politeness on both sides, particularly onhis. He was so pleased with his release from unnatural fetters, that he was not displeased even in fancying he saw a slight flash of coquettish disdain, in a momentary glance of Miss Eustace's eye. A few days after this, Clinton was agreeably surprised by a call, at his professional rooms, from his friend and kinsman, George Penland. - The meetingl was hearty and cordial on both sides. "When did you get to the city?" inquired Clinton. "Thismorning. I received your letter only a few days before leaving home, and *       .     -   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      253 as Julia wanted to see her mother, and we were about to leave for that purpose, I thought there was no use in writing to you, as I would soon see you in prop'ria persona. Business of importance delayed me longer than I expected, and I could not get here in time for the wedding. Julia is now waiting at the hotel, and is anxious' to see your bride. You must go with me at once." "Yiu must tell me where the bride is to be founcd before I can show you any such appendance to my corporature," said Clinton, with a smile partly af- fected, and partly real. "Why," exclaimed Penland. "Another, contretemps, another, slip between the cup and the lip, or, rather, between you and good fortune I How is it? Have the stars been unpropitious again?" "Perhaps not," said Clinton. "I certainly am not a married man, and have no prospect of being one soon." "What, then, in the name of Hymen, did you invite Julia and myself to your weddingfor? Was it all a hoax, or had you indulged too much, contrary to your wont, in a 'fancy julep?'" "Neither," replied Clinton. "I was in earnest, but"- "Things then appear to wear a rugged aspect with you,"said Penland, interrupting him, as he threw himself upon a sofa in the room. "Loss of sleep upon these iron arteries have made me the worse for wear. Tell me what prevented the glow and gleam of festivity. I expected to hear nothing from you but accounts of sighing and wooing, bridal vails, moon- beams, and paradises, lighted halls, fiddles, and tam. borines, with no small sriiklin:g of trembling sensi- bilities and emotions, of one kind or another; and instead of all that, you seem to be lingering upon the coast of celibacy, and looking, for- all the world, as if you thought a matrimonial voyage, was the most dan- gerous adventure that a poor devil in the shape of a   254: ETHEL SOMERS; OR, man, coifld possibly take. If you want encourages ment, I've- tried it, and let me tell you it is pretty good sailing, with anything like a tolerable fair wind." Clinton, seeing that the best way to relieve himself, was to explain the causes which had led to effects, frank- ly related to Penland the whqle nature of his trials and adventures. ' Well," said Penland, as he concluded, "you may thank heaven and all the stars for the 'blow out,' for, if you had gone upon that voyage, and escaped a blow up, or a. wreck, there would have been no -longer any truth in the saying, that the day of miracles has passed. Youtve;escaped the Scylla of vanity, and the Charybdis of ruin. You had better live and die an old -bachelor, be a sour ascetic, live in a cave, and feed upon and talk with the winds and the rocks, than get into such a gulf of trouble. you owe a debt of gratitude ,to Mr. Conway and Bliss Eustace, which you can never cancel. But," continued Penland, arising from the- sofa, "Julia will die with anxiety, if we delay here much longer.", "I will be happy to accompany you," said Clinton, " and am at your service ;" and they proceeded at once to the hotel. Mrs. Penland,  who, had been anxiously awaiting their appearance; met her cousin with even more than her usual warmth of manner. Her pretty face was wreathed with smiles, and every feature beamed with congratulation and curiosity. ' How do you think he looks, Julia," -said Penland to his wife, "after three days' trial of the matrimonial chain, with its waking joys and, rainbow dreams? Don't blush, Clinton. All who plunge into the marriage stream have to face its trials the best way they can." Mrs. Penland scarcely knew what to say in reply to her husband's question, for, being a con- scientious woman, she really: thought he looked in   .              ,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      255 some way rather the worse for wear.- Clinton, how- ever, relieved her of the necessity of answering the question at all, by saying, "Penland, my fair cousin, in his usual facete way, is disposed to be witty at your expense, or mine, or perhaps at both. I am not in the coils of the matrimonial chain, nor have I embarked upon the stream of matrimony."  "And you are not married) then?" exclaimed Mrs. Penland, with marked surprise. "No," said Penland, answering for Clinton. "It would be better for him to fall into the mouth of a, shark at once, than to become the lingering prey of the coquette from whom he has made a fortunate -escape. I tell you, Clinton, these womehi are pretty trouble- some angels after all; that is, some of them," said he, putting an emphasia on the word "some," andglancing at his wife at the same time. "Ethel Somers was somewhat exacting herself, but whew!" said he, "just to think of the terms proposed by Miss Eustace, and that, too, to one who was bartering his soul for the 'shiners.' Why, Clinton, if I could think you ever deliberated for a moment whether to yield or not, I would consider you a brand plucked from the burn- ing." "But I did not deliberate at all," said Clinton. "The truth is, a change had come over the spirit of my dream. The reason for the sacrifice had ceased to exist, and- I was determined to be freed from the hate- ful inthrallment." "Well, that fifty thousand dollar check was the magician's wand that saved you. But for that you would have worked upon the fancy and controled the fitful spirit of Miss Eustace, as you had done at first, to win her, until her resolution would have given way, and you would have been 'sucked in,' finally, by your own cunning.   '256      ETHEnFL. SOMERS;, OB, "Whatis wedlock, forced, but a hell- An age of discord and continual strife?' Why, there is in the marriage state, even when parties have for. each other a due amount of esteem and love, a constant need for patience, reason, judgement, and forbearance. Your union with Miss Eustace would have been like that of powder arid fire. You would have been blown asunder, if not blown up, as certain as fate itself. Julia here, is a reasonable woman, and she knows that I am a reasonable man; and we con- trive to live and love as well as most persons who are tied as close together as we are. But I have found that certain things have to be done, and certain others avoided, to keep matters in a peaceful state. We used to engage in argument, and try to conquer each other in the strife of opposing intellect. But, Clinton, I found it would not do.  No, sir; a man and his wife. must never engage in debate.  They must think alike, or never express their thoughts; but live and love right on. Isn't it so, Julia?" "I know, George, that you think married women ought to have no independ- ent opinions of their own, and I have sometimes thought with the writer who said-          . "'The hour of marriage ends the female reign, And we give all we have to buy a chain.'" "Well, Julia, would you quote the two following lines of the same writer, and  apply them to yourself and me?- "' Hire men to be our lords who were our slaves, And bribe our lovers to be perjured knaves.'"   .           .   [       THE .FATE OF THE: UNON.    257 "Surely not, George. I never intimated or thought of such a thing in connection with your own dear self." "I thank you for that kind remark, and I know you 'will agree with me when I say that woman, as a wife, should not desire to reign further than she may in the sweet influences of her gentleness and hMr love; acting always as the warm friend and sympathising com- panion of the man with whom she has formed the most interesting, delicate, and endearing of all partner- ships in life-a wedded union; and, as I have thus briefly stated what a wife should be, I will not keep back my opinion of the duties and responsibilities of a -husband. He who treats lightly his wife's cares, and disregards her feelings, is a domestic tyrant. A noble and generous man will, from a consideration of the confiding weakness and dependence of a wife, be the more constant and delicate in his attentions. He sees before him a creature weaker than himself, who looks to him for protection, and leans upon him for happi- ness. In the dreams of fancy there is nothing more touching than this; nothing which appeals more. powerfully to human sympathy and -affection. Such a man will treat her as an equal, and always with ten- derness and respect. . That is the light, Julia, in which I look upon you." His pretty wife smiled as he said this, and was perfectly satisfied with his opinions of matrimonial duty. "But," said Clinton," what should a man do when his wife remains fickle, capricious, and shrewish, after he shall have done his best, at all times, to please her?" "His only chance in such a case," Said Penland, "would be to yield with the best grace possible to the melancholy accident of his marriage, and to remember that there is another world, where, with proper preparation, mortals will' be better off than r        );   258 E. -    H'EL SOMERS; OR, the.,:are iitis One. You would have been in that, fix-if you had married Miss Eustace, and given her the power to flutter her capricious fAn in your face." Mrs. Penland thought as her husband did, when she became acquaintedwith the nature of Clinton's affair with that lady, and was equally pleased at its termina- tion. Mr. and Mrs. Penland remained the rest of the day and night at Mr. Clinton's, and on the following morning proceeded to the residence of Mrs. Howard in the country. CHAPTER XXVII. THE reader will remember that Mrs. Howard was the mother of Mrs. Penlaad. Clinton accompanied them, and remained at The Cottage several days, during which time he and Penland frequently conversed upon the subject of slavery. Penland and his wife had taken a deep interest in Clinton's affair with Ethel Somers particularly the former., He, like Mortimer, was not only a  great'advocate of southern rights, but a firm believer in the justice of the institution of slavery in the abstract. ^He believed that slavery was right in itself,-recognized by the highest moral law, and -per- fectly consistent with the purest principles of Repub- lican government. One day, while there, both he and Clinton were surprised to see the approach of the Rev.  Mr. Chester, the good man and minister who officiated in the church near the school to which we have here- tofore alluded, in giving some account of Woodlawn and its neighborhood. Clinton had become acquainted ,with him long before his visit to Mississippi; for he If   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      259 was a distant relative of Mr. Howard, the late husband of his aunt. Penland had also met him at his brother- in-law's. Both were much pleased to see him, especially Penland, who had taken great interest-in: listening to his views) on the slavery question. 'Mr. Chester was a northern man by birth, and although originfally op- posed to slavery, his views had undergone a thorough change. Penland thought this a good time to make an onslaught-upon Clinton's opinions, and the oppor- tunity was afforded him to do so during this visit of Mr. Chester, In a conversation on this-absorbing sub- ject, Clinton had asserted, and undertaken to prove, that it was sinful for one man to hold another in bondage.. "I am amazed, Clinton," said Penland, "to hear you express yourself as you do, especially as you have seen something of the institution, as It is in the South. But," said he, "I will turn you over, on that point, to my Reverend friend, Mr. Chester, who is infinitely better posted than I am on its moral aspects." Mr. Chester very cheerfully entered into the discus- sion. Indeed, he was anxious to do everything in his power to remove existing prejudices on the subject. We will then lay before the reader what he said on the occasion to which we allude: "You certainly are not ignorant of the fact, Mr. Clinton," said Mr. Chester, "that the slaves of the South not only attend the preaching of the Gospel in the same churches in which their owners assemble to worship God, but participate, on the same occasions, in the holy communion. , They not only enjoy this privi- lege, but have churches of their own, and are often instructed by preachers of their own color. Besides this, their spiritual welfare is looked after by various denominations of Christians, who make provision to  a,   260      rETML SOMERS; OR, 'have them taught in al] matters pertaining to their eternal interests. The -great mass of the poor, in the present, as in all past ages, of the world, have been de- prived of the advantages of learning, art, and science. Their peculiar position has interposed insuperable ob- stacles to their enjoyment of any other advantages which flow from them, than such as are incidental to improved civilization. The slave enjoys these as well as the laboring poor of the white races. The latter may have more education, but they possess no advantages superior to the slaves, in the great essen- tials of the soul's salvation. But I desire less to speak to you on these points, at present, than on the main one you have raised, that slavery is sinful. You will fail to -establish it by that great boolk of consolations, the Holy Bible. .Recollect the scene upon Mount Sinai. There God gave to Moses, the great law-maker of the Jews, the tables of stone, upon which were written, with his own hand, the Ten Commandments. As if to impress upon Moses and his people the solemnity of what he was about to do, he first called Moses into the Mount, to communes with him. This is the language of the inspired writer: Now, therefore, if ye will obey my voice, indeed, and keep my cove- nant, ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people; for all the earth is mine, and ye shall be unto me a kingdom  of priests, and a holy nation. .These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel.' Moses reported to the people the words of the Lord, and the people promised to obey. The Lord again made his appearance to Moses. For aught that we know, the day may have been serene and bright. Not a cloud may have obscured the rays of the sun, yet terrific lightning played upon the sum- ;   THIE FATE OF THE UNION.     261 mit of the mountain, and portentous thunders made it tremble as if shaken by anearthquake. Thus, amidst the deep diapason of heaven's artillery, and the notes of a trumpet which rent the air with its solemn clangor, God came dcown in an atmosphere of flame, which eclipsed the light of the sun, to place his command- ments in the hands of his chosen servant. And in the fourth, it is said, ' But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any word, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy man- servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. In the tenth: 'Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house; thou shal not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's.' In immediate connection with the delivery of. the tables of stone, the Lord said unto  Moses, 'Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you FROM HEAVEN."* Thus, in the letter of the Decalogue, in the records of the great-moral law, slavery is recognized to exist, and the-inference is irresistible, that it is recognized to be lawfui. a I deem it, Mr. Clinton, to be almost un- necessary to adduce other testimony from the Old Scripture, when this comes to us under circumstances ofsuch deep solemnity. 'I have talked with you (saith the Lord)from heaven.' You will remember the commandment of the Lord to Abraham, in reference to his people, and those 'bought with thy money;'t alsohis curse upon Canaan, in which he said, 'A serv, ant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.' Blessed * For the foregoing quotations, see nineteenth and twentieth chapters of Exodus. t See Genesis xvii, 13,27.   262    -  ETHEL SOMERS; OR, -be the Lord God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant. God shall enlarge Japheth, and he. shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.'- See, also, Leviticus xxv, 45, 46, author- ising the purchase of slaves, which should be an in- heritancefor ever. This, Mr. Clinton, is only a small portion of the evidence which can be adduced from the Old Scripture, to show that slavery is of Divine ap- pointment. But let us pass from this to the new dis- pensation. We leave Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, with their numerous slaves, to come to the time when the wise men saw the STAR IN THE EAST. They beheld, too, the heavens illumined with hosts of angels spread- ing their golden wings, and emitting supernal beauty in-their beaming faces. Why this hallowed concourse of the skies? They, too, caine down midway from their heavenly homes to see the Star of hop nd mercy, and redemption.  The seraphim filled the heavens with celestial melody, as they sang, 'Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, good will towards men.' I ask you now, Mr. Clinton, if you can point to a single -declaration, even a word, in all the teachings of the Son of Man, which, even' remotely, condemns slavery as sinful. You cannot find it in that greatest of all sermons which lie preached in the Mount. Certainly-not in what he said of the centurion, whose servant he healed. I will quote the few verses which relate to it. - "'And: when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there carme unto him a centurion, beseeching him, and- saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the: palsy, grievously tormented. And Jesus -saith unto  * See Genesis ix, 25,- 26, 27.   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      2638 hil, I will come and heal him. The centurion an- swered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst conie under my roof; but speak the word only, ad my servant shall be healed. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me, and I say-unto this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.' "What did Christ answer to the supplication of the centurion? Did he call him a kidnapper? a man-. stealer? a land-pirate? a vile, sinful, pro-slavery reprobate? Listen to the sacred scripture. "' When Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to them that followed, Verily, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.'* !"It is said of this centurion, that'he glorified God.': What Christian exists in the old world or the new, at the North or the South, but would feel his heart thrilled with proud devotion, were so great a compli- ment paid him by the Savior of the world as he bestowed upon this Roman slaveholder? At the ad- vent of Christ, and during the times of the apostles, slavery universally existed among the Jews, the: Romans and Grecians, and, indeed, among all the known people of the earth. The apostles went forth to preach the Gospel, and bravely denounced the sins of theworld! Not one word did they utter in con- demnation of the institution of slavery. It will not do to say that they forbore to denounce it from policy, or * St. Matthew, chapter 8. - t St.:Luke, xx3iii,4-7.   264-      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, fear. - The horrid cruelties to which they submitted proved their fortitude and faith, and neither forsook them, even in the last extremities of martyrdom. The apostles not only recognized slavery as lawful, but they taught masters and slaves their duties anbdlespon- sibilities. Paul even sent back Onesimus to his master, from whom he had fled. 'Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters, according to the flesh, with fear and trembling,' &c. ' Not with eye-service, as men-pleasers,' &c. 'And ye masters do the same things unto them, forbearing threatening,*l &c. 'Ser- vants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward.'t But I will not fatigue you with further quotations. Read, at your leisure, Colossians, from the twenty- second verse to the end of the'third chapter; also the first and second verses of the sixth chapter of the first epistle to Timothy, and the ninth and tenth verses of the second chapter of the epistle to Titus. When the apostle exhorted Titus to speak those things by authority, he :also said. 'Let no man DESPISE THEE.' Would it- not be well for abolitionists to remember this declara- tion, when they utter their denunciations against the slaveholders of the South? Are our Christian brethren of the North wiser and purer and holier than the apostles, -who were immediately inspired by their di- vine Master? They gave the right hand of fellowship to slaveholders among the Jews and Romans and other gentiles-admitted them to the rites of baptism--com- muned:with them at the Lord's holy table-loved them as brethren--rejoiced with them in their joys, and wept with them in their sorrows. Oh I how different * Ephesians, chapter vi. t 2 Peter, chapter ii, 18.   THE FATE OF THE UNION. -     265 from this has been the conduct of northern to southern Christians! Slavery has been made-an impassable gulf between them. The northern Christian has con- stituted himself a frowning censor. and judge over the conscience of the southern. Even the pulpits of the North have been turned-into moral bastions, from which the latter were assailed, until self-respect, as well as political rights, forced a separation of northern and southern churches." Penland was a delighted spectator of the scene in which Mr. Chester thus expounded scripture in sup- port of the institution in which he took so much interest. "What do you think of the scripture testi- mony?" said he to Clinton, as Mr. Chester finished these and other remarks and illustrations of the ques- tion. "The truth is," said Clinton, "I have not examined the bible testimony on the subject. I frank- ly admit that the passages referred to by Mr. Chester, are exceedingly weighty; but JI would ask him if other Christians, and divines too, do not appeal to the scriptures to sustain them in their opposition to slavery?" "I readily admit that they do," answered Mr. Chester; " but I assure you, after the fullest inves- tigation I have been able to give the subject, I have seen no real aid adduced by them, in support of their views, from the sacred writings. They have clothed sophistry in the garb of reason, and worked up some kind of subtle structures of argument, calculated to - impose upon ignorant and superficial investigayors. In my opinion, the enemy of slavery who undertakes to fortify his position by a resort to the inspired word of God, will have to disturb his conscience, by opposing its plain meanings, or seek relief in downright infidelity. Many having not only failed to discover that slavery- 12   266       ETHdEL SOMERS; OR, is condemned by it, but having seen that it is positively ordained, approved, and sanctioned, have, in the blind- ness and bitterness of their fanaticism, preferred a rejection of the Bible, to, a recantation of their anti- slavery opinions." We must not fatigue the reader with the lengthy details of all that was said on the oc- casion to which we are now referring. Mr. Chester was on a visit of business at the North. Having ac- complished his object, he returned to his home at the South. CHAPTER XXVIII. AFTER the expiration of a few days, Clinton returned to the city, accompanied by Penland. During the day, they spoke of Mr. Chester, of his gentle 'manner, his piety and learning. "You will remember, Edward," observed the elder Clinton, "I said to you, some while since, that I would, at a convenient time, relate to you a story of ingratitude. As Mr. Chester, of whom you speak, was one of the persons intimately connected with the events of that story, I will now relate it to you and Mr. Penland. It will have, at least, the merit of brevity. Thomas Chester and Robert Hervey were partners in business, in the town of -- for several years. The former was nearly ten years the senior of the latter, and had aided him with his counsel and means from his first start in business, as a clerk, until he became his partner, and obtained an independent fortune. Mr. Chester unfortunately became. a bank- rupt,--by indorsing for several persons who failed in buiness. Then it was that Hervey's character was   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      267 exhibited in its true colors. Mr. Chester made several propositions to Hervey, the objects of which were to secure of him, employment for himself and his eldest son, upon reasonable terms, that he might cancel a debt to him-none of which were acceded to. 'I think,' said Hervey to Chester, 'you are decidedly ex- travagant in your estimate of the services of yourself and son.' No one would have thought as Hervey did. To declarations of Mr. Chester, that the sum offered him was inadequate to the support of his wife, his children, and himself, Hervey replied, 'It is not my business to provide for other people's wives and chil- dren.' Mr. Chester ventured to remind Hervey of his acts of friendship to him in years that had long since past. To this Hervey replied,' It is true, sir, that you aided me with employment, but I could have obtained it of others. Besides, my services amply repaid you for whatever favors were conferred upon me. You can take until to-morrow to accept my terms, and if you shall not see proper to do so by that time, you can consider it withdrawn, and the mortgage upon your remaining property must be foreclosed.' "Mr. Chester went to his humble home, for he had taken a cheap tenement adapted to his altered circum- stances, greatly depressed in spirits, both on account of Hervey's conduct, and the extreme ill-health of his wife, to whom he had always been deeply ittashed, for her many virtues, and her unceasing deeoton to and sympathy for him, which seemed to have increased as adversity pressed heavily upon him. -This man Her- vey was one of those heartless wretches, who are to be found in every society. He was a stout-built, round, full-faced man, with, a dark complexion, stern visage, and rather bearish-appearance. He was keen and            .   268 --     ElaL, SOMERS; OR, shrewd in business matters, -and was originally taken notice of by Mr. Chester for the possession of these business qualities, and his friendly regard for his father. Like many men, he became avaricious as he acquired property, and was as careful in counting a fraction as a dollar. The poor always turned from  him withe hopeless looks and despondent hearts. No eastern fire-worshiper ever looked with greater admiration upon the rising sun than he did upon a silver dollar. With him, in the language of Carlyle, it was 'the master-organ-the soul's seat.' With him, money was the barometer of affection. He exhibited the ardor of his feelings along down the scale of wealth and com- petency to the freezing point of poverty. To' the moneyed -man, he was cordial; to the poor, repulsive. To these traits he added ingratitude. When Mr. Chester called the following morning, he found his heart even harder than it was the preceding day. All further at- tempt at changing the terms was abandoned, as Hervey remarked, soon after their meeting, ' I don't believe in friendships. Every man must befriend himself. Tf you have been unfortunate, no one is to blame but yourself; and you must take the consequences.' Mr. Chester acceded to Hervey's terms, by accepting a small and insufficient salary, and apprenticing his oldest son for six years. Mrs. Chester died within a week -from the time this arrangement was made, and Mr. Chester himself-borne down by misfortune and mental trouble-terminated his existence a short time after the:death of his wife. Poor Thomas, the appren- tice I (he was named after his father) what a life he led for nearly twelve months. He had been tenderly reared. No mother was fonder of her ,children than his had been, They were her jewels; and the incense    THE FATE OF THE U--ION   ' .  269 which had ascended from her faithful heart's altar to heaven, for their happiness, was the essence of love, pure, holy, immutable, eternal. But she was gone. Those children were motherless - and- fatherless. The younger (Howard) wads taken, after his father's death, into the family of an acquaintance, who acted as his guardian. "But to return to Thomas. It is a sad occurrence for children, even though possessed of wealth and friends, to be left parentless in early youth. . Thomas was be- ginning the journey of life. He was at an age when he still required the counsels, the attentions, and the solicitude of his parents. But his parents were in their graves. Just think of his situation. If any hu- man being needs the sympathies of his race, it is the v unfriended youth-the child of love-left to buffet the angry waves of life-to tread its rugged paths. The heart of every human being should dictate the words, 'God bless the orphan,' and deeds of correspondent import. But no one counseled Thomas, no one cared for him, no one spoke words of soothing kindness in his ear, no one said, 'I will love and protect yot.' A mas- ter, wealthy, living in a land of liberty--of refined civilization-tasks his apprentice beyond his physical strength-mneets him with a scowl upon his face- speaks harshy to him--neglects his morals--denies him sufficient sleep-scourges him without sufficient cause, often and excessively--crushes his spirit-ne- glects him when stricken with disease--and makes his existence' a hell. Mr. Howard, the-late husband of my sister, was an Englishman by birth. Some months before .the failure of Mr..Chester, who was a distant relative of his, he left for Europe. At that time he was engaged to be married to my sister. Soon after )        '           * '4 .   270       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, his return, their nuptials were consummated. Previ- ous to that event, however, learning the failure of Mr. Chester, he visited the town of -- , to look after his children. He found Thomas on his death-bed. The poor youth had suffered in little less than a year, more affliction than should have fallen to his lot during an ordinary lifetime. He was in a small uncomforta. ble room, destitute of the comforts necessary for one in his situation, and in a great measure suffering from neglect. When Mr. Howard first entered his room and spoke affectionately to him, he burst into tears and sobbed as audibly as his physical ability would permit. It was from Thomas's own lips that Mr. Howard learned how cruelly he had been treated. Mr. H. told me it was the saddest narration he had ever listened to. He had seen youths of both sexes badly treated in English factories and coal mines; but no case so distressing, had ever come under his per- sonal observation. This poor youth, who had -been raised until he was thirteen years of age in the lap of wealth, of luxury, and of parental love, thus thrown upon the arena of life on which a full grown man finds difficulties and struggles of almost overwhelming mag- nitude, was the victim of oppression and cruelty un- surpassed in the tents of the wandering Arabs. The poor boy had even once -attempted to take his own life, and for that he was unmercifully scourged. Mr. Howard did' every thing in his. power for him. But he found him too late. The tooth of the destroying monster had penetrated his heart. He followed him to his untimely grave on the third day after he first saw him, in his wretched condition. He took home with him Howard Chester, and gave him the advanta- ges of a superior education. The cruelty of Hervey to   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       271 Mr. Chester, and especially to his poor son, reminds me forcibly of the lines of Shakspeare: "'Blow, blow, thou winter wind, Thou art not so unkind As man's ingratitude; Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky, That dost not bite so nigh As benefits forgot; : Though thou the waters warp, Thy sting is not so sharp As friends remembered not.' "' The love of God, (as Dr. Paley says), is the sub- limest gratitude.' We love God for his supreme be- neficence. We behold his power and goodness in the beautiful earth canopied by the blue sky; in the silver moon, and countless glittering stars; in the sun which rests like a vast world of fire in the heavens. It is right that we should adore and love him. In the great chain of duty from man to his Maker, obligations rest upon us which it is criminal-to disregard. It is right and pleasing-obligatory and honorable-to be grate- ful to our fellow-creatures for the favors which they bestow upon us. We love the first for his mercy, the latter for their kindness- He who extracts from the heart of his kind the stings of misfortune, hangs his offerings upon the adamantine chain which binds the good deeds of earth to the throne of the Eternal. He will not lose his reward, though the subject of his favors may, in prosperity, reject, scorn and deny them. If there be any truth in the existence of a moral sense, one of its clearest attributes would seem to be a grate. ful recognition of the blessings conferred by man upon man. There is no loss of dignity or manliness in this.   272       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, The proudest being that walks the earth, may be grate- ful without the least sacrifice of pride, or the nicest principles of honor. It is creditable to human nature that the mass of mankind in every age have looked with suspicion and contempt upon the ungrateful. There is a sufficient reason for this beyond the mere effects produced by ingratitude in individual cases. It checks the spirit of benevolence, and of course increases the evils of life. 'I will not favor him' (says one), 'because he would not thank me for it, if I did.' We often hear remarks like this, and why?   Doubtless, sometimes, because the will to confer a favor is want- ing, but oftener, because men are ungrateful for kind- ness extended to them.  Thus the ungrateful man is: an enemy to his species. At best, society is consti- tuted of such intellectual and moral elements as to require the largest amount of active sympathy and be- nevolence. He who checks their operation, whatever  may be his idolatry of self, is a misanthropist in prac- tice.  He breathes upon society to blast it-upon the eye to open, not to seal its fountains-upon hearts to desolate, not to -cheer them. A   French nobleman was reproached by Henry IV, for adhering to an- other who had been banished from  the 'court, 'Sire,' said the nobleman, 'I am under deep   obligation to the object of your displeasure for kindness hereto. fore bestowed upon me; and    I find myself forced by  gratitude to be faithful to him  now, when he stands so much. in need! of my    kindness.' How charmingly this exhibits the beauty and value of gratitude.  It is lovely when seen in the reciprocities of prosperous friendship; but far more so, when, rising like a sweet incense from the soul, to afford solace in the dark hour of misfortune.  I must beg you to ex-   ,   THE FATE OF THE UNION."     273 cuse me," continued Mr. Clinton, " for saying so much upon the subject of gratitude and its opposite. I have been led into it by my own grateful sense of a recent favor, which came from a- hand unseen, and a heart whose generous nature I can feeli-igly appreciate, though I know not in whose bosom it beats, as also, the contemplation of Hervey's cruelty to the father and the son, when the former had so often and so long be- friended him. Retributive justice, however, overtook him at last, for by a series of accidents he was stripped of his fortuine, and finally died in comparative poverty, unmourned, save, perhaps, by his only child, who met his death by the hand of Charles Somers, whom he had previously mortally wounded. But I will say nothing of that scene, as you, Edward, was present and saw it, and Mr. Penland is already acquainted with its attendant circumstances." CHAPTER XXIX. "F I had been a manager behind the scenes, Clin- ton, and had expressly designed to carry you by storm, I don't think I could have contrived matters, by the most cunning artifice, to have pleased me better than what has occurred here, without the resort to means of that kind. Mr. Chester has swept away the foolish idea, that holding slaves is sinful, and I will pledge you my word, that in all the extent of my acquaint- ance in the South; I never knew an instance in which a slave came to his death by deliberate cruelty, such as your father describes'as having been perpetrated by old Hevey.  That was a horrible affair.  If the youth had '12*   274       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, actually belonged to him, as his slave, self-interest would have prompted his better treatment. You may talk about your. free society till doomsday, about the blessings of liberty, equality, and all that, but history will bear me out in the assertion that human servitude, in some form, has existed in every country, and in all societies, from the remotest ages of which we have any account, to the present hour." "That is true," re- plied Clinton, " to a great degree; but the poor in this country, and in most of the countries of Europe, may become rich. They are, at least, freemen. They are not slaves. The poor freeman is not without hope; the slave is, except in the remote chances of emancipa- tion." "You refer," said Penland, "to the poor of Europe, and say they are, at least, free, and live in  hope. I should think that two thousand years have afforded ample time to test your doctrines. I firmly believe that if we could raise the European dead for the last two thousand years, and test the hope of which you have spoken, that not one man in a hundred thousand, who begun life as a poor menial, ended it, even in comfortable circumstances. In English society '-it is extremely difficult for a tradesman, or one engag- ed in any kind of business, out of the arAy or navy, or the learned professions, to get into the upper ranks. A man thus occupied, even if he obtains wealth, often leaves to his children after him the doubtful chance of thus ascending in the social scale. Sometimes it is not effected, if at all, until the expiration of a century, afters the expenditure of perpetual efforts, during that long probation. It now and then happens that some poor profligate lord offers himself, in his worn velvet, to the daughter of a rich commoner, for no other pur- pose than fo mend his fortune, if not his morals, and   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       275  in that way the aspiring girl may be lifted up to, a little rank, at the expense of happiness. The laboring class in Europe are borne down by caste, in the first place, and occupation in the next. They may love their countries because they were born there, but it is the love of accident alone; of the soil that yields them a scanty subsistence; the cottage or hovel, that af- fords them shelter. They may reference their kings, and queens, and the nobility, but it is the awe of sub- jects, who gaze upon the glare of the great and the royal. They may be attached to their sovereigns, but it is the attachment of inferiors to superiors. It mat- ters not that their skins are equally white, and both may have descended from Japhet or Shem. This con- dition pervades the masses of European society, and attaches in its various ascending degrees, from the peasant to the king.  The great mass of the poor in Europe are the heirs of proverty as old as its governments.  The descendants Mf the poor who lived in the early ages of the regularly-established governments of Europe, are poor now. They. have hungered and thirsted, toiled and groaned, from those remote ages until this moment, in which, could we but hear them, the cries of the suffering millions, in England, Scotland, and Ireland, are w-afted upon. every breeze which blows over these sea-girt lands; In some of the countries of Europe they are but little better off; in Russia, still more oppressed, debased, and trampled in the dust; still, they are freemen I Free- men in what? In poverty, want, wretchedness I Aye, cradledin suffering, and cofined in despair. The abo-  litionists try to move heaven and earth, to relieve the negro, and never give a thought to these people who are infinitely worse off, though blessed with freedom&   276'       m'latEL SOMERS; OR, and covered with white skins. Liberty to them is an ignisfatuus; ia watery bubble; a sound that wails as it passes them by. Glory may illume the kingdoms of Europe, but amidst its splendors are seen the pale ghosts of Tni{ions, who once lived but to suffer, and groan, and die." "Surely, Penland," said Clinton, " you draw upon imagination for the picture you present " "History is a fable if I do," replied Penland. "I speak what history teaches, yea, what many living eyes have seen and heard." "Still," said Clinton, "I can but believe you are mistaken. There maybe a few who are as miserable as you describe millions to be, but the great masses of the European poor are not as friendless and wretched as you represent them." "Grant, for the sake of argument," observed Penland "' that what you say is true. ' You condemn the insti- tution of-slavery, because a few slaves are badly treat- ed. By parity of reasoning, I might condemn free society, because a few of the poor experience every ex- treme of human suffering.  The great masses of the poor in Europe, whose lot you deem  to be tolerable, have more care, more want, more destitution, and less comfort, than the great masses of southern slaves." "Well, admit it," said Clinton, " and it will not prove that slavery is right." "Perhaps not," said Penland, ' but it proves that in your boasted free society, there is more suffering than in southern society, where sla- very is an essential element." "But," observed Clintoh, "the great test is in the two civilizations of this country. Let us compare society at the North and  the South.  In the North every man feels the blessings of equality and freedom. No man oan assert a superiority over his fellow-man im political privileges and right. The ruler, from the.   'THE FATE OF THE UNION.      2" lowest to the highest office, is the servant of the people., The people are the sovereigns. Each man is a king. It is not so in the South. There a large portion of our race are held in bondage. They toil'for their masters, are subjectto their wills, and grope on in mental dark- ness from the cradle to the grave." "I think,"said Penland, "you have rather overdrawn your picture of Northern society. It was only to-day that I witnessed a scene in one of the "intelligence offices" of this city, that will weaken your position, unless you should contend that thereis, or ought to be, a difference between the social rights of males and females.- A girl who had presented herself in the office I refer to for inspection, was asked to show her recommendation. She replied that she had none, that her mistress had dismissed her without sufficient cause, and had refused to give her a certificate of good^ char- acter. The man who had questioned her, gave her a suspicious glance, and without saying a word more, turned to examine another. The girl alluded to was evidently cast down. I saw-her eyes fill with tears. She left the office, and where did she go? Can you tell? Do you know what becomes of many such in your free-society at the North, when dismissed from service, whether for, or without, cause? What doyou imagine must be the inquietude, the doubts, and fears, and terrors of the four hundred females who advertise for situations this morning in a single one of your daily papers? What of many hundreds of -others, male and female, who solicit places in the numerous other papers of your city? You speak of the slaves toiling for their masters. I know it is common for the abolitionists 'to speak of the godless' gainfulness of slavery. - But what will you say of the cheaper labor of northern hireling ?   278       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, Low wages, in all free societies, cause infinitely more misery among the laboring whites, than attends south. ern slavery in all of its worst features. The capitalist at the North will tax the muscles of the white hireling for niadequate-compensation, and boast how cheap his work was done t I do not envy his triumph, when I think of the wearied laborer, as he sits despondent, and almost hopeless, in the presence of his dependent wife, and suffering children. I cannot admire, Clinton, the philanthropy which assails the institution of slavery with persistive crocodility, and sheds over its evils- sentimental tears, while it encourages the poor at its own doors with the profits of bare subsistence when their labor is wanted, and turns them out to suffer, beg, or subsist by charity, when no longer needed. Labor, you perceive, is not only cheapened by the avarice of capital, but by the competition of hirelings, helps, and menials, to secure places. Who is more helpless than the poor old man without a home or some kind pro- tector, to shield him from wintry blasts, and the still more pitiless winds of poverty-stricken and -hopeless senescence? The slave of the South, from the cradle to the grave, has a happy home and a kind protector and friend. Likeyourself, Clinton, Hesteemliberty as price- less, when possessed by those who are capable of appreci. ating and enjoying it. But, as I said before, human servi- tude has always existed, and always will exist, in some form, in all societies. These are distinctions incident to all human associations, created by wealth, or talents, or pablic,or private virtues. The people of the North are not subjects of a king. They do not belong to a president. They are politically free and equal. But are they all so, in reality--are they- equal socially? The hireling of the North is dependent upon the good-   THE FATE OF THE UNI01o.      279 will of his employer. If turned off from service in one place he must seek it in another. If he can-find none, he and his family, if he has a- family, must feel the pinchings of want. Many of the servants and hire- lings of the North become independent, -but the great mass of them do not, and will have less chance to be- come so as the country grows older and more popu- lous. The men of the North are called freemen. Some of them are so only in name. In the South they are freemen in- name and reality. The slaves of the South perform  the duties which usually attach to northern hirelings. The mass of the whites at the South 'are independent, and the poorest class find a class still beneath them. Hence our lowest classes are higher toned and more elevated in their feelings than northern hirelings. The people of the South command and are obeyed. The higher classes at the north also commandand are obeyed. The first com- mand their slaves, the latter their white servants. (Their equals )  It follows, then, that the higher classes at the North, and nearly all classes at the South, are higher-toned than northern hirelings and servants, who are white and free I These latter are the victims often of the caprices, the whims, and the evil passions of those higher than themselves. They can be, and often are, controlled, by their wishes, either as voters or members of society." "I admit," said Clinton, " that in all societies there have been, and will continue to be, a class who will serve those richer than themselves, but here in the North they do it of their own accord. They serve one man or another, just as they please. They can move from county to county, and from state to state, to seek the best employment and the highest wages for their service"    280       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, "Ah, true," said Penland, "they can do what you say, if they have the will and the means to move from place to place; but, how few have the means to roam over- the land to hunt up the best situations, and the best wages. It costs something to travel in cars and ride in coaches, and in the mean time these servants must have something to eat, and clothes to wear. Many of them are forced to accept such wages as they can procure-where they are, for their daily subsistence depends upon their daily labor. Northern society is constantly undergoing changes for the worse for the poor and laboring classes. The lords of the loom and your merchant princes in northern cities have begun already to ape the manners of the titled gentry of Europe. How often do you see them already dashing through the streets in their splendid'carriages, with liveried drivers and servants. This looks anti-republican, but that which attracts our attention now, as aristocratic, because-confined to a few, will cease to excite surprise as it becomes more general, and northern society will either become revolutionized, or settled down into as distinctive classes as any in- the monarchies of Europe. The long and short of the whole matter is this: one class, must serve another, let society be constituted as it may; and as such is a social neces. sity, I contend it is best that servitude should exist as it is in the South. There the servant is a slave.  His skin is black, and he belongs to an inferior race. If my boots must be   cleaned, my horse bridled and saddled, in a word, if menial services have to be performed for me, let them be done by the slave, the African, the inferior, and not by the white man, who claims to be my equal in political and social rights.  In the North you, prefer the menial services   THE FATE OF, THE UNION.      281 of the whites. We of the South have not sought to disturb your social structure; we have not sought to inflame your poor against your rich, nor to add to the dangerous spirit of agrarianism which has already shown itself in your civilization. We will leave you to work out the problem of free society in your own way; but, judging from all the past, one class must serve another, and whether your institutions shall exist for five hundred or five thousand years, the poor of your own color will perform for you the services which our slaves perform for us. Pure republicanism can only be maintained bythe institution of slavery, or a system of menialism which is infinitely worse." "Then," said Clinton, "'I understand, you to say that the republican institutions of the North cannot continue indefinitely to exist upon the basis of equal rights to the rich and the poor." You misconceive my position," replied Penland. "Many among the poor may be the most influential members of society. Some of your wisest statemen, your most learned men, your deepest divines, your ablest jurists, your most in- tellectual and influential writers, are poor men. The distinction is not between the rich and the poor, but between those who perform your menial services and- all other classes. Your society will approximate that of Europe. Southern society will' always be su- perior to either, because the slaves are the menials there. All other classes in the South, whether rich or poor, will be equal in political rights, and-will com- bine to preserve law and order; for all will be deeply interested in their-preservation. There all the whites, will be equals.  In the North, some of the whites can- not be the equals of other classes, because they are menials. They cannot be the equals of the rest while r.,   282       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, cleaning their boots,- making their fires, and running their errands. - They cannot be patriots and citizens, in- the lofty and intellectual sense of those terms, -while they are slaves in everything but the name." "Why, Penland," observed Clinton, "you startle me by the novelty of your opinions. Slavery has made you an aristocrat. I have heard much of southern nabobs, and it really seems as if I have one sitting before me." Penland smilingly remarked, "If we have nabobs in the South, you have the same in the North. Yours are nabobs over- the whites; ours, over the blacks. But when I am properly understood, you will not deem me an aristocrat, or a nabob. I claim to be a plain re. publican citizen. In the North, in the South, every- where, we must yield to- the inexorable decrees of ne- cessity. It is a moral necessity that one class shall serve anothoer Human ingenuity can devise no ex- emption from it. Standing under the dark brow of the past, and looking through its shadowy vistas, we see man serving man in Greece and Rome, both under republican and monarchial rule. We see it in all ages, in all countries, and in all political and social organ- izations. At the present day it is the same. Tell me, Clinton, if you can, where an exception exists to this rule of social necessity?  If it could be found anywhere it ought to be found in this repub- lican land. But it is not found here, either in the North, or the South.   The hireling at the North is constantly agitated with doubts and fears. He knows not how long he may be continued in his situation which, at best, only enables him to live by unceasing toil. If the harvest fails he is sure to feel the cruel pressure of its effects. The poor peasant in Europe deems himself prosperous if he can barely mantain  THE FATE OF THE UNION.       283 himself and his family upon -the small patch which he cultivates. If he is turned out from that, it is often to beggary, or starvation. The southern slave has no fear. His home is fixed; or, if he should4 change masters, he is sure of obtaining all the substantial com- forts of life. There is a certain home for his children and for himself, when he can work no longer from age and infirmity. Whether seasons are propitious or unpropitious, crops abundant or meager, his supplies are the same. Everywhere, in the field, at the hoe, or the plow, or going to or returning from his daily labor; before the door of his comfortable cabin, or within it, surrounded by his wife and children, his cheerful song may be heard, for his tasks are easy, his protection sure, and his heart is light. Let us suppose for a moment, Clinton, that at some future day, the free and the slave states shall become involved in civil war, on:account of slavery; that after years of blood- shed and extravagant expenditure of treasure, the North shall prevail, and the slave, by some miracle, shall be removed from the country; that peace shall be restored, and both sections, by another miracle, shall be again united in a great republican union, tell me, would human servitude cease to exist amongst us? Cast your thoughts two centuries hence, when perhaps ourscountry would contain a population of two hun- dred millions of souls. Would they all be free? would not many millions serve the rest? All nations seem to have possessed the elements of dissolution. Could we expect that the wild spirit of agrarianism, the storm of revolution, could be kept down in so vast afcountry, with such a tumultuous sea of human passions, but by the strong arm of power? Perhaps two thirds of our people would be hewers of wood and drawers of water   284       hTiflL SOMERS; OR, for the rest. How could they be controlled, with po. litical power and privileges in their hands, guaranteed to them by a national constitution, when oppressed by the rich, when poor, suffering from want, not of the luxuries, but even the comforts of life? Ingens telum necessitas. , Nothing could control them but a negation of equal rights, the existence of an acknowledged and well-regulated vassalage, or the ever-constant presence of bristling bayonets. And yet your people would interfere with the institutions of the South to effect a change which would only convert the white man, in- stead of the negro, into a menial. I leave you to im. agine how much worse the picture would be were our slaves turned loose upon society, to become freemen in the midst of the whites. I will not now undertake to describe the hell which our country would present, for the observation, the scorn, or the pity of the civilized world, for a doubtful advantage; for, in all proba- bility, a result which would convert the South into a moral pandemonium; '(I mean, if civil war were to take place, and the North could triumph, which I, however, do not believe) your people would invade our rights, our homes and altars. - It is an infatuation full of danger, and if successful, would result in hor- rors, without a parallel in the annals of the world." The discussion was terminated at this point by the necessity  imposed upon  Penland to return to the country. "I shall be forced, by business," said he to Clinton, "to return home in two or three days at farthest, and you must go with me to the South.    We can visit many plantations and different. sections, and thus en- able you to see slavery as it is, and judge for yourself of the practical operations of the system."    THE FATE OF THE UNION.     285 Impressed, in no small degree, by arguments which had been, at various times, presented to his mind; and being really anxious to see more of the South, and to comprehend, in its utmost plenitude, the peculiar na- ture of southern civilization, Clinton promised Pen- land that he would visit him late in the fall, or early in the winter, and take a transcursion through portions of the southern states. During the next few weeks his father's difficulties were all happily removed, and he had the daily satisfaction of seeing him meet his old friends as usual, and walk through the old haunts and bustling thoroughfares over which he had trod for nearly forty years. Thus matters were at home, and no obstacle existing to prevent the fulfillment of his promise and inclination, Clinton left New York, for Louisville, early in December. CHAPTER XXX. THE reader will now accompany us to Woodlawn. Ethel Somers and Mary Raymond were seated in the richly furnished private room of the former. "I will close this window," said Ethel. "The air is chilly, and I perceive your cough, my dear Mary, is no better." The family of Colonel Somers had become daily more concerned for Mary, for when she reached Richmond, they were struck with the peculiar transparency and paleness of her complexion. Her eye was bright, but they noticed, with solicitude, the hectic hue of her cheek. Still they imagined it the result of grief and her excessive fatigue in watching day and night by the bed-side of her sick mother, and hoped that a change   286      WTHEi SOMERS; OR, of scene and the flight of a few weeks' time would re- store her usual healthy bloom. They were deceived in that, however, for the fair, pale Mary was evidently growing thinner and feebler each succeeding week. "I have," said she, "a presentiment, Ethel, that amy eyes will soon be closed upon this beautiful world, but I shall regret to go only because I will leave you and other dear friends behind, and will be no longer able to dispense such aid to the poor as it has been the chief pleasure of my life, for the few past years, to bestow upon them." "You must not talk thus, dear Mary," said Ethel. "It is not good to indulge too much in grief. I fear you have done that until your spirits have become de- pressed. You must cheer up. Do, for the sake of those who love you as a daughter and a sister, make an effort to banish sadness from your pure heart, and you will again be well." "I fear, Ethel- that it cannot be as I might wish. For love of you and other kind friends to whom you allude, I would make the effort, could it avail. Even now, I feel the pervading power of the insidious destroyer. But I am not afraid to die. A few months have gradually taken the bloom of health from my cheek. A few more, perhaps weeks, will lead me to the grave. Ethel, my sweet, dear friend, I wish to talk with you upon a subject which has been near my Jxeart. Once or twice I haye hinted it, but, I discovered that you seemed to shun it. A distant allusion to it made-you seem to tremble, and I forbore. Dear Ethel, why your sensitiveness at any allusion to Edward Clin- ton? You will not doubt the purity of my motives and my love for you?  I beseech you, then, permit one who loves you as a sister, and who must concentrate in a brief space of time all the earthly love she can feel   THE FATE OF THE UNION.    ! 287 for you, to ask why you repulse her ardent wishes to speak to you on the subject of his devotion to you?" The reader can well imagine why Ethel shrank from such a subject. However she may once have felt towards Edward Clinton, her plighted vow to another, as pure, and now, in Ethel's opinion, purer-to one as noble, generous and exalted in every virtue-forbade the least indulgence of a thought, or sentiment, untrue to him. Ethel was startled by the earnestness of Mary Raymond's manner. She saw in the light of her eye a deep feeling which she felt it would be cruel, in her weak condition, to disregard. Hence she replied, "Dear Mary, why should you speak to me of one whom I can never love, if it be your object to speak of love in connection with his name and mine?" "Ethel, Edward Clinton was driven by a withering necessity, a holy filial love, a desire to save his father from ruin, to address Miss Eustace. He confessed all to me. He told me, with quivering lips and faltering words, when engaged to her, that his heart was consuming with love for you. His father was generous enough to tell him that, for his sake and for yours, he would descend to the vale of poverty. He again offered you his heart and hand. You adhered to conditions to which he could not submit, without the sacrifice of truth, of mental independence, and personal honor. You rejected his suit. All this took place before he addressed Miss Eustace. She never possessed his affections. His heart was yours, and I believe is now as devotedly yours as mine is another's in heaven." At this allusion to her brother, Ethel burst into tears, and Mary Raymond, mistaking her emotions, continued, "Dear Ethel, remember your vision.- That same wandering, half-spiritual, halfnmortal being apl   i'[ ,    258      E'2HdEL SOMERS; O0, peared also to Edward Clinton. He saw it when it presented itself to you. In a feverish dream, he stood by you at the hour of noon-day, and heard its words, and saw it dissolve away.   There seems to be a destiny in this. Edward Clinton and you were born for each other. Oh, Ethell say no more you can never love him."  Ethel, greatly agitated, replied, "The difference of opinion which' produced our estrangement still exists. Were nothing else in the way, that would be an insuperable difficulty." "That, Ethel, may not- be so. Who can tell what changes may occur. It may be that his love for you may lead him to a deeper investigation of the question of slavery. It may be that he may yet think as the good Mr. Chester does, who talked so eloquently upon that sub- ject. I must confess that, with all my own prejudices, with the personal knowledge which-I now have of the comfortable condition of the southern slaves, I do not see how his position can be resisted, that slavery was instituted by, divine authority. The difference between you and Edward is the difference between the South and the North. As it may be reconciled between you and him, so it may be between the two sections. Re- member the beautiful vision. Why should it appear to you and to him?  Oh, Ethel! it, looks like the interposition of Providence. It seems as if it almost requires a miracle to prevent your and his final estrangement; as if nothing scarcely short of a miracle can prevent the final estrangement of the two great sections of our country. What say you, my sweet Ethel?" "My love for you, Mary, forces me to be frank and confidential. I cannot love Mr. Clinton now. It is too late. I am betrothed to William Mortimer."   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     289 "Oh, Ethel," said Mary Raymond (who, for the first time, was aware of Ethel's engagement), " that declara- tion destroys the fondest hope to which I have clung since the death of Charles. I beg you to excuse me. Against Mr. Mortimer I have not a word to say. He is a noble, intellectual, perfect gentleman. I have known but one whom I could consider his superior in any respect, and he sleeps in the grave. My lips are henceforth sealed. I would not for the world seek to disturb the. sacredness of your vows. On the brink of the grave, I pray Heaven to crown your union with Mr. Mortimer with mutual happiness." Ethel arose, threw her arms around Mary's neck, and they wept together. Days and weeks passed away, and each day they seemed linked together by tenderer ties. Both scrupulously avoided the least allusion to Edward Clinton.            - "Well," said Penland to Clinton, after the latter had been at Louisville a couple of days, "I have ar- ranged- all of my matters, and am now ready to pene- trate with you the darkest as well as the brightest regions of the South. We can only make a flying trip of it, for Julia will get tired of staying, even with her mother, before we can get back. I told her what I was after, but even that did not quite satisfy her with the prospect of so long a separation. The truth is, I don't much relish myself the idea of being away from her so long.. These women are, after all, sweet inthrall- ments, whom it is impossible to get along -without. You may know more about it one of these days than you do now. But it is well to be on the sharp look out, j-  for, unless well matched, you will find the yoke of matrimony worse than that of slavery." On the following day, Clinton could but contrast his 18   290 aTAd:L SOMEEB; OB, circumstances with what they were a few months before, when, at the same place, he walked aboard another boat, with a heart buoyant with hope and happy ex- pectation. Penland was one of those practical charac- ters, easy in his manners and insinuating in his address, who could soon become acquainted with those about him. He was not long in selecting from the passen- gers on the boat several with whom he felt disposed to while away his time. One of these was Hugh Cumberland, a young Englishman, who was pursuing his travels in the United States. He had seen, much of the .world, having visited every country in Europe, and most of those in the East so famed for their historic reminiscences. Another was Horace Percival, an intelligent planter of Louisana. Their ages were nearly the same, though the Englishman looked as if he might be one or two years the elder. Neither would have been thought more than twenty-five. The Englishman, though social and communicative, pos- sessed a singularly sad expression of face, especially for one so young. Clinton was introduced to these young men by Penland, and an intimacy soon sprung up between them. They often amused themselves at cards, and passed much of their time in conversation. j  The young Englishman had seen much more of the world than either of the others, and often amused them with descriptions of countries and places which he had visited, and the relation of adventures through which he had passed. One night, when they were sitting late in the cosy cabin of the boat, and had emptied several glasses oftheir purple-hued contents, Penland observed, "We are all four friends, made so by theassociations of travelers upon the highway of life--ages not very dissirmilar, tastes by no means discordant, and sympa-   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      291 thies which, I trust, neither will forget in the future. -This generous wine is not calculated to make our hearts colder, but more warm and confiding., We three, Cumberland, though natives of a different land from- yours, have felt a growing interest in you. Care seems to sit with youth upon your brow. Friendship and good-will, not idle curiosity, make us anxious to know whether there be aught that we can do to make your heart lighter than it seems to be." Penland uttered this with graceful dignity and freedom, mingled with delicate sincerity and warmth.  Cumberland fully appreciated his object, and expressing his grateful thanks for their kind intentions, replied, "My own feelings admonish me that I am a fit subject for the critical notice of those around me. I cannot prevent it, and, recognizing and reciprocating your good will, I will, if agreeable to you, relate, the cause of any con- stant solicitude." All having expressed a wish to hear him, he proceeded to tell his story, as follows: "Four years ago I visited St. Petersburgh, the cap- ital of Russia. While there I became acquainted with Mr. Paul Mezenow, who lived in the province of Rev- el. He was on a temporary visit to the capital, and was accompanied by Madam- Mezenow and his two daughters, lmena and Elizabeth. Both were lovely girls, and after a short acquaintance with them, I was deeply smitten by the charms of lmena, the younger of the two. I lost no time in making known my affec- tion for her, and I was happy to know that it was re- ciprocated. Twice, while at the. temporary residence of Mr. Mezenow, I met there Alexander Oltonetz, a Russian nobleman, who made Ilmena the object of his particular attentions.' Her father informed me that Oltonetz was a man of licentious habits and desperate   292       THEL SOMERS; OR, character, and that it would be best for me not to in, cur his displeasure, and perhaps his private vengeance. I proposed to marry his daughter at once, and take her under my protection. This, he assured me, would endanger his life, if not mine. 'It will be bbst,%said he, 'for me to return home. I will then visit Revel, where you can be married; and as I have no desire to re- -main in a country where my peace, perhaps life, and the peace and honor of my family are at stake, I will go with you to England, and make that country my future home. I will send a note to you toemorrow, which will inform you fully of my movements. Let me en- join upon you the danger of calling again at my house.' Receiving no letter on the following day, I became extremely uneasy, and ventured, in disguise, to visit his house, about ten o'clock at night. I found it closed, and perfectly silent and dark. You may im- :agine 'the fears with which my bosom was agitated. Still I hoped the note had miscarried, and that Mr. Mezenow, with his family, had returned to his home in the province of Revel. Hence, I determined to go there, with the utmost speed, and, early the next morning, proceeded on my journey. I can scarcely describe the horror I felt, when, upon reaching the province, I learned that, suddenly, at night, a band of ruffians had entered his house, seized upon Mr. Mezenow, his wife and two daughters, placed them in a close vehicle, and drove off at full speed. I could not, for a moment, doubt that Oltonetz was the insti- gator of this horrid enormity. My heart was harrowed with the most torturing emotions. I feared that Ilmena had even then been the victim of diabolical brutality, and the other members of the family mur: dered, or conveyed to Siberia. Under these circum-    THE FATE OF THE UNION.      293 stances, I concluded to return to St. Petersburgh with the utmost speed, and lay the facts before the British Minister. I lost no time in so doing when I reached the capital. But he stated that it was a matter beyond his cognizance; that the' offence was committed by some unknown persons against Russian subjects, and it was a matter for the consideration of Russian authorities alone. He advised me to be very cautious in my con- duct, lest I might become the victim of assassination. In his opinion, it was most probable that the whole party had been sent to Siberia. I remained in the capital for two weeks. Nothing was said of the affair; no one appeared to make the least complaint, as far as I could learn, and I took the- desperate determina- tion to go to Siberia as a traveler, to see if I could there learn any tidings, of their fate. The British Minister urged me to abandon so hazardous an under- taking; but my mind was made up, and through- his assistance, a passport was secured,. authorizing me to visit Siberia as a traveler. No language can convey the horrors of mind and suffering I endured during the tedious months it took me to reach -the settlements in that cold and inhospitable region. I remained there a whole year, passing from place to place to see if, per- chance, I could learn anything of Mr. MEenow and his family. My search was vain. I saw)however, numerous persons who had been transported upon various pretexts. I saw a number of Polish officers who had been torn from their families, some of whom were in extreme age, and had experienced a thousand deaths having lived from  ten to thirty years, sus- tained, only, by the hope that they might, at some time, be restored to their wives, or children, or grand- children, whom they had not even heard of since the   ?,.    .294       h THPL SOMERS; OR, hour of their sudden and cruel banishment. There were ladies there who had been reared in the lap of wealth and luxury, who had been forced from their husbands, and children, and parents, the ghostly shadows of what they once were. Going and return- ing, I saw sledges bearing, in closely confined boxes, other victims of Russian despotism. It was a dreadful sight to see these mournful vehicles rolling along the northern wilds, sometimes scarcely visible, even when passing within a few yards, in consequence of the falling-snow, which, at times, was drifted with the fury of a tempest. It makes me shudder to think of what I saw and experienced, of the wretchedness and desola- tion, not only of Siberia, but of most of the intervening country between Asiatic Siberia and St. Petersburgh. Nearly three years had passed when I/ reached the Russian capital. I ventured to return to Revel, and there learned - that Mr. Mezenow had escaped, and sailed from  that place, on board of a British vessel bound for England.   Learning this, I sailed by the first opportunity for my native land. I had written from St. Petersburgh to my father, informing him  of my determination to go to Siberia.. My mother had died the year previous to my   visit to Russia.  My father was rejoiced to see me. Until he received my letter, written immediately upon  my return to St. Petersburgh, he had nearly abandoned all hope of ever seeing me again. After what I  had encountered for the sake of Imena, he made no objection to my leaving home within a  week, to continue my search. He in- formed me that a  letter had reached London for me, conveying the intelligence that -Mr. Mezenow would make the United States his future home. I  was sur- prised at this, as Mr. Mezenow had stated to me that  THE FATE OF THE UNION.,      295 he would reside in England. I need say. nothing of my adventures since. I arrived at New York two weeks ago, and I have taken this route for the double pur- pose of seeing the country and continuing my search after the idol who, in so short a time, took complete possession of my heart." CHAPTER XXXI. 'iSURELY," said Penland, when Cumberland had concluded, 'time will make good everything that Shakspeare wrote, and more besides. He makes one say-- , "'I would outstare the sternest eyes that look, Outhrave the heart most daring on the earth, Pluck the young sucking cub from the she bear, Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey, : To win thee, lady.;' "You, Cumberland, have risked more. No man, since the rib was taken from Adam's side, has ventured on a mission of greater danger, to win a girl. Your search has been almost circumterraneous.   Emena must have been a perfect piece of witchery. Women are wonderful creatures, surely." "Ah," said Cum- berland, "you would know how better to estimate my feelings, should you see her as she was. Nature itself seemed to claim her as a masterpiece of workmanship. She was neither too low, nor tall; just- the perfect medium, rounded with every grace, winning in every feature, with lips like rubies, cheeks like blended lily and rose, and eyes, the holy revealings of whose F.;,   296       I'LtHEL SOMERS; OR, glance filled the beholder with surprise and rapture." ' a ost true lovers talk of their loves as you do," said Penland; but your Siberian trip is a clinching argu- ment to prove that your Rlssian beauty is a lovely Tagir i an, But for some powerful attraction, you would not have' ventured there, where the wolf is often' too cold to howl, and the dog merely snaps and chatters his teeth when he tries to bark. That would have been a dreadful place to have found her in. It would be much better for both of you, if you could dis over her nestling in tome sweet bower in this mild clime of the South. - I am sure Clinton and Percival would join me in joyous vivas at your success, if you could. This is a large and great country, and there is no tell- ing who may be stored safely away upon its surface. But why, Cumberland, did you take this route? Why did you not go along the great lakes, and look in that direction first?" "Because Mr. Mezenow said, in his letter, that he would go into the southern interior, and at a considerable distance from any of the large 'towns." Percival listened with increasing in- terest to the story of"Cumberland, as he drew to its conclusion. He hesitated to declare the suspicions Which had taken possession of his mind, lest he might exte hopes only to be blasted. -But when Cumber- land stated what he did in --reference to the section to which Mr. Mezenow designed to go, he hesitated no lon- ger, and remarked: "About a year since, I purchased a plantation on the Arkansas river, a considerable dis- tance from its confluence with the Mississippi. While here, late in the spring, preparatory to leaving home fort the, summer, I had occasion to go to the town of -, and mistaking myway, I undertook to regain the right direction by crossing a piece of:woodland: which   THE FATE OF THE UNION,.     297 formed a trianglebetween the right road and the wrong one, which I had taken. I passed for some distance along a deep ravine, on my right, which I diseovered after having penetrated the woods a short distance. Imagining that I was bearing too much to the, right, I turned gently from the ravine, and soon after came to a country road, which I took, supposing it would lead me to the one I was- seeking. After pursuing it for half an hour, I suddenly met, in a curve of the road, a handsome young lady, mounted upon a high-mettled horse, who was rearing and plunging, as if disposed to run. The lady seemed much agitated, and an elderly gentleman was endeavoring to reach the horse, to seize the bridle. In the rear of both was another, rather more youthful, but pale-looking girl, on horseback, who was looking on, with extreme anxiety. I Irode quickly up to the unruly horse to aid in checking him, but he suddenly leaped aside into the air, and dashed at full speed along the roadI had just passed over. I could not hear distinctly the exclamation, or rather the words, uttered by the gentleman. I only heard the word 'daughter  Off I pursued, putting both whip and spur to my horse. -Away the: fiery steed, maddened by fright, and rendered more wild by pursuit, bounded over the winding road. I trembled for the lady at each successive turn, lest the rapidity : of the change from a straight course might cause her it lose her balance, and be dashed with violence upon the ground. It ,required a desperate effortto 0gain upon the furious charger, but I soon discovered that mine was the fleeter of the two. -Once the lady seemed to reel, and I expected, momentarily, to see her fall. But she maintainedher seat with wanderful presence -:Qf wad. Her bonnet was thrown back by the vi- -    298       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, lence of the breeze, and her long, dark flowing tresses streamed from her neck and shoulders. Presently, we reached a curve in the road so short and abrupt, that I-felt my heart beat violently, as the dreadful thought crossed my tnind that she -could not maintain her pos- ition in passing it. Either from the rapidity of his movement, being unable to turn, or a disposition to run into the woods, the horse dashed on, and then it seemed impossible that she could retain her seat. At one time the horse seemed running upon a large tree. My; eyes were painfully strained in gazing upon the - imminent danger which at that moment threatened the rider. But the horse just brushed the tree, and, it being to her right, I saw that the lady had the. pres- ence of mind to; straighten up, to prevent her person from striking it. Soon a -limb caught the' ribbon at. tached to her bonnet, but she bore the pressure, and the bonnet was left dangling in the air.  Again, her dress was caught by another limb, but being of delicate texture, it also gave way, and she remained firm in the saddle. But, oh I the ravinel That, with its steep banks, was not more than a hundred yards ahead. Language cannot depict the rapid conflict of my thoughts, and the frightful emotions with which I was agitated. The ravine might stop the horse, or he might plange into it, or attempt to leap over it. I knew-that his sudden stop upon the brink would throw her head- long into the rocky abyss. -The fall of the horse, or theattempt to leap, would be equally fatal. We were now within twenty yards of the ravine.; There seemed to, be no escape. I was almost within reach of the lady. Both df us were in the utmost peril. Giving my horse a deep:plunge of the spurs, he gave a bound which placed me within her reach. Seizing her under ^    THp FATE OF THE UN1UJ. lug her left a  trm, with the exercise of almost unatural strength, I drew her from the horse, and, withmy left hand, with great difficulty, checked and slightlyturned my horse's head when just upon the brink of the pre- cipice. The horse she rode made a desperate leap. His forefeet touched the opposite bank, but hefellback- wards, andwas-almost instantlykilled. So close was I to the edge of the ravine, that, as I succeeded in turn- ing my horse, his hind feet broke off portions of the brink, which fell into the abyss below. I soon saw that the fair creature whom I had succeeded in saving from that awful leap, was totally unconscious. She, as I aferwards learned, had just seen the precipice as I seized her arm, and swooned from the excess of-her emotions. Speedily dismounting, I gently laid her upon the ground, and resting her head upon my knee, fanned her as well as I could with my handkerchief for I had lost my hat in the woods. I was startled by her extreme pallor, for death itself could not have made a greater change in her complexion. Notwith- standing her pale look, I thought I had never before seen a face so lovely and beautiful. I felther pulse, and found that it slightly beat. Knowing that thel gentleman and the other lady could not be aware that we had left the road, I called- as loudly as I could, a. in a short time they rode up, for they had just reached the place at which we left he eroad, as-I called, You cannot imagine the horror-stricken loks of the father and sister, as they approached us, and saw thelady lying so pale and motionless upon the ground. But their fears were soon removed, for in a ittle while ehe partially opened her eyes. She looked aroundfor  few moments in wild surprise, but, as her father and sister gently and affectionatey- spoke to her, she smile  1            '  '    ,  '*' ' . .' '^.' ,.   O00N     riabL SOMERS; OR, sweetlyj and seemed to be so happy, that I felt a thrill f jo;y pervade my whole system at the sight. In a few minutes more the lady, with my assistance, arose to er -feet. A brief explanation, and a sight of the horse lying dead in the ravine, revealed to them all -how narrow her escape had been. Indeed, my own was almost as narrow. I pass over what was said to me. I could not repeat, were I to try, the words of gratitude with whiich they almost overwhelmed me. Descending into the ravine, I took the saddle from the deads horse, and putting it upon my mine, aided the lady-to mount, and accompanied them on foot. The gentleman- urged me so warmly to ride his horse, and let him walk, that I found it difficult to resist his en- treaties. But he finally yielded. When we reached their residence, it was with great difficulty that I could resist their pressing -invitation to remain and dine with them. I excused myself, however, telling them that my engagements made it necessary that I should pro- ceed to   with as little delay as possible, as I was then making my arrangements to leave for the sum- mer, Being most warmly and cordially invited to call and see them upon my return, I very sincerely prom- ised them to do so. Now, these people are foreigners, That I discovered from their accent, in conversation. They all, however, spoke English tolerably well. I learned from persons in the neighborhood, that they htad been residing there about three years. They do not pass, however, under the cognomen of Mezenow. Tte old gentleman said to me that his name- was Steuben. He, told me that, in asking for my name, for ]e said it would be a source of happiness to him thrO0ugh life, and would be to his daughters, to be able :to pontnoethe name of him to whom they weretua- . 'e - ,",t   TH FATE OF THE U  NION . der obligations of gratitude, which they could never re- pay."                    all Percival gave minute descriptions of the gentleman and the two ladies, which answered very wellfor Mr. Mezenow and his two daughters. But as there were many foreign gentlemen, who were tall, well propor- tioned, good looking, and intelligent, with black hair sprinkled with gray, and many young ladies who were beautiful, black-eyed, and extremely well-formed, it, waS evidnt that a personal observation, alone, could decide the matter as to their identity. - "I intended," said Percival, "to go direct to my home in New Orleans, and return to my plantation soon after, but as this deeply interesting question has arisen, I will go to the latter place first. You, Cum- berland, will,. of course, accompany me, and Clinton and Penland, I know, would liketo see the denoe- ment." "I certainly should," replied each, " and wilt rejoice with (r. Cumberland in his good fortune, if it shall prove that these are the friends whom he is seek- ing." Cumberland, of course, was in a state of great excitement, and thought that the fast sailing boat was moving as i! against the wind. A were solicitousto reach the residence of the stranger; Cumberland,  from love, Clinton and Penlond, from curiosity and sympathy, and Percival, from both, with a din- teresteda desire, of course, to see the fair lady hose pretty cheek had rested unconsciusly and sftly upon his knee. River scene, boat passing up and down, ,the scenes at various landings, and within the boats, must not detain the reader fromthe development of 80 interesting a rdatter as whether these strangers were interesting a       "'oateA * the persons whom Cumberland desired, above all on earth, to fin&' The reader has, doubtless, had'a   me      If-i j^SOMERS; OR, :soupFon of romance, already, about the matter, and we must hasten to see whether, upon sufficient evidence or not. A change of boats took place, of course. These young men were not long detained at the mouth of  the .Arkansas river, as a boai left the town where they were landed for Little Rock, in three hours thereafter. Of course, they were passengers on that boat. We will suppose them landed at the plantation of Percival. They arrived about ten o'clock at night. Percival's slaves soon learned that he had arrived, and the party was escorted to Vte house, which had been occupied by the former proprietor as a dwelling, by two of his own negroes, who happened to be at the landing, each bearing a flaming torch in his hand. Clinton and Cumberland were both surprised, particularly the  latter, to witness the cordial salutations which passed between Percival and these slaves. It was difficult to tell which was most pleased at the meeting'-he or they. Othersjoined in the procession, as they neared the house, and the scene became one of exciting interest to Percival's accpmpaniers, one of whom had seen but little of plantation life, and the other, for the first time, witnessed this meeting of a master and his slaves. The latter were nearly beside themselves with joy, and it seemed to Cumberland and Clinton, as if Percival was holding a levee in the yard and portico of the dwelling, with numerous blacks-men, women, and children, who rushed out from their cabins to shake hands with Mars Horace, and tell him how glad-they were to see him back. Percival had a kind word for each. ::But his presence being required with his com- any, e soon dismissed them for the night. A faith- ful old woman, who had been raised by his father, and was a kind of governess over matters about the *'           .    TMLE J'1 UA? 'Q THE UN-1JN I WON yard, as soon as she had shaken Mars Horace by the hand, 'went to prepare some creature comforts for him and his friends, and it was not long before a table was spread with a white, clean cloth, and graced with a pot of warm coffee, and a few plain, but favorite plantation dishes. Percival and- his friends had supped upon the boat, but each of them having taken a glass of excel- lent wine, partook, also, of .these delicacies,: as the. faithful old servant called them, more to please her - than to gratify their appetites. Having finished their repast, which, to the delight of Aunt Dinah (for that was the name of the old servant), they pronounced it to be capital, they retired to rest. CHAPTER XXXII. ON the following morning, which was. bright and beautiful, the four-gentlemen left directly after break- fast to visit the Strangers, who resided about ten miles distal. As they rode up to the house, they met a gentleman at the gate, and Percival addressing him inquired if "Mr. Steuben- and his daughters were at home?"  "They are," replied he; "but one?f his daughters is quite ill, I have just made her a profes- sional visit." Perceiving that he was a physician, both Cumberland and Percival eagerly inquired at the same moment, which daughter was his patient?"-The younger of the two," replied the physician. Cumber- land, with much agitation, inquired the cause of her ill- ness. "It is somewhat difficult to tell,'" replied the physician . "I can perceive no plainly marked symp- physi     Pe\    -f   -   i-4 ETHEL SOMERS; OR, toms of disease. It seems to me that her malady is purely mental; but she is greatly emaciated, and without a- sudden change, she can survive but a few days longer. Her mind is'slightly wandering at pres- ent. -I have just given-her a composing draught, and intend: calling :again upon my return to town." Just at this inoment, the gentleman of the house, in crossing the -passage which ran through it, stopped for a moment to look at the gentlemen whose presence arrested his attention. Cumberland recognized him, instantly, to be Mr. Mezenow, and dismounting, proceeded quickly towards the house. The latter, also, immediately re- cognized Cumberland, and, with his finger upon his lips, indicating the propriety of silence, he rapidly de- scended the steps. The interview between them was warm and affecting in the highest degrde. Mr. Mez. enow inquired who the other gentlemen were, and be- ing told, he walked to the gate, shook the hand of Percival with great fervor, and was exceedingly court- eous to Penland and Clinton.  Percival then ob- served)l "Thepe gentlemen and myself are friends of Mr. Cumberland.  We know his history,- and- are aware of the object of his visit to this county, and particularly to this section. :Considering your daugh- ter'sA situation, it would be best that we should return and -call again at a more appropriate time." To this, Mr. XMezenow replied, "It will not disturb my daugh- ter, and I shall be gratified to have you to walk in, at least for a short time. I will remain with her until Elizabeth can-have the pleasure of seeing Mr. Cumber- lanld and her deliverer." The gentlemen were then escorted- into the house, which they entered qpietly :and gently. After the interview, with its naturally touchiing incidents, E:lizabeth retire&d, and the gentle-   THE FATE OF THE USION.  men having bid her and her father adieu, proceeded to the town of ----,which was situated about two miles distant. It was a source of agony to Cumberland that he could not see Ilmena; but it was thought best that he should not at present, lest the shock might be too great in her present critical situation. Cumberland had briefly explained his adventures to Mr. Mezenow, who stated that he would soon relate to him what had-- occurred before and since his departure from Russia. When the physician returned, he foundj tat the potion he had given Ilmena had composed hervous sys- tem, and left her mind less disturbedthan it was at his previous visit. She was so much relieved, that he stated there would be no necessity for him to call again until the following morning. During the afternoon, Mr. Mezenow said-quietly and soothingly, "We have heard, Ilmena, from Mr. Cum-  berland." As he uttered this, her face exhibited unu- sual animation, and she eagerly inquired when and how? "He is already in the United States," contin- ued her father, " and I am informed has :come to look for us, or rather for you." "He is not dead, then," said she, "and has not forgotten us?" "No," said her father, in the most affectionate manner, and with -a tone of pleasure and sincerity which sent a thrill of joy and confidence through her anxious heart. "I should not be surprised to see him here in a short time." Ilmena's pale countenace seemed suddenly illumined as he said this, and a sweet, happy smile spread over , it. Her spirits revived from :that moment. When the physician returned early he following day,.he congratulated Mr. Mezenow upon the -happy change which had taken place in hss daughter's  oondieion. When asked: if it would be improper for her to see a it wo     pop      se, .   3w    . S1HTM SOMERS; OR, iend from Europe, he replied, "By no means. I think she would- be benefited by the agreeable excite ment, provided the interview be not extended too long, and she. shall not fatigue herself in conversation." Cumberland we6 elated by the contents of Mr. Meze- - ow's note, which he received in the afternoon in reply to one he had sent, and looked forward to the time when he might be able to see Ilmena, with pleasing impatience Percival, Clinton, and Penland concluded to remain near Cumberland for a few days, to see how tnena's case might turn, when they intended to pro- ceed farther south, Cumberland, as yet, not having determined upon any other course than to remain in the town of -1 for the present, that he might be near the object of his love. On the following day, Clinton and, Penland remained at-, while Cumber- land and Percival made a visit at Mr. Mezenow's. Greeting over, Cumberland was introduced into Ilme- na'sroom. Shewas suffcientl improved to be placed in a softly cushioned armed-chair, which enabled her to ocupy a halfsittingand halfrecumbent position. She appeared to' much advantage, arrayed in a beautifully- embroidered simar, with a rich scarf thrown loosely over her shoulders. The meeting of the lovers after so long and painful a separationj affected them both to tears. Ilmena extended her hand, whiMh Cumberland eagerly, but tenderly, pressed with bothof his. Neither oid speak for a few moments, but a thousand decla- rations and welcomes could not have expressed more than -they did by theirsilent, loving, happylooks. The thought passed sweetly through the mind of each--  "Absence, with all its pains, Is bythis harming moment wiped away." '  1         , - ,   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     807 Those who have loved, and felt the pains of absence, even under far more favorable circumstances, cah know how to estimate the raptures of such a meeting; and those who have hot, might fail to appreciate them, could we, with magic power, portray their emotions with words as musical-as the touches of love upon the accordant strings of their hearts. a Cumberland's face beamed with joyous pride and triumph, and Ilienas shone like a bright soft rainbow amidst the gently falling spray of a fountain. What more could woman ask than Cumberland had done to show his love? He had traveled over one third of the circumference of the- ,globe, and in its most inhospitable latitudes, to find I1- mena. What more could man ak than to know that a faithful heart had clung to him until from  the vio- lence -of its devotion, like the worn and delicate ma- chinery of a qlock, it had nearly ceased to beat'?"-um- berland saw in Ilmena's condition the ravages of the heart'sdisease. Butwhy should we tell how thin and pale she was--how her large bright eyes were encir- cled with the marks of feebleness and grief-how the- roundness and embonpoint of her figure had given awray until it was attenuated and wasted to extreme debility. Rather. let us inform the reader that her physician was right. Her disease had been mental. Its cause was removed, and day after day she regained the flesh and strength agdd bloom that she had- lost until the rose supplanted the lily, and the merry laugh, the groan and the sigh. Penland, learning the ra, id improvement which had taken place in lmena's health, - and being anxious to-prosecute his, travel,urged upon Percival a speedy return., The latter asked for an- other day, most of which he spent at Mr. Mezenow's ;  kand all of them, calling there the day after that, bi v   :&08   .   ETHEL SOMERS; OR, * the family and their happy friend, Cumberland, fare. well for the present. "I have charged Clinton here," said Penland, when they had rode off a mile or two, " with knowing some. thing about love symptoms; and- if he was as critical in his observations as myself, I think he will agree with me, Percival, in the conjecture that we have left a pair of eyes at Mr. Mezenow's which shed a light of enchantment upon you. kAt least, you seemed by your looks to recognize some magic in their gaze." "You are quite Suspiclous," replied Percival. "That girl to whom you allude is a beauty I admit, and is quite as grate- ful for my services as if I had preserved a hundred lives for her. Of course, I was bound by every obligation of courtesy to listen politely to what she had to say, and to play my part as delicately as I:ould." "Cer- tainly, I admit all that, but the exchange of soft glances and gentle undertones, as you sat near her by the win- dow, what of them? Lovers try to be very cunning in their movements; I could but observe, however, your furtive glance when you handed her the pretty rose' that you plucked from the vine which clambered so gracefully upon the casement. We old married -'fellows, understand a thing or two. A man lives in vain, who having gone through these interesting mat- ters, can divine no mental indications-from acts which neither politeness nor friendship dictate. To give a. rose: to ^ lady is nothing of itself, but the manner, the look, the- words spoken, the tone of voice, the reecep- tion, are tokens which have their meanings." "I will not argue the question with you," said Percival. "It is useless to attempt to overthrow preconceived opin- ions, like yours. The best way is to let time speak for itself." "I will compromise with you upon that,"   THE FATE OF THE UNION. ,     809 said Penland, " if you will promise to let me know'to whom you shall be bound in the silken tie of matni- mony when it shall take place." "That," said Perci- val, "I cheerfully agree to." CHAPTER     XXXIII. THE friends soon reached Percival's plantation, and Clinton, for the first time, saw the snowy treasures of southern cotton-fields, which are richer than Australian mines of gold. "And this," said Clinton, " is a speci- men of your cotton culture, which adds so much to your strength and wealth? "Yes," replied Percival. "It is a fair specimen for this section, but you should have seen this field at the last picking to have beheld it in its perfection. Then, these white bolls were doubly as thick as they now are. The field looked at that time as white as snow." "It is very white now," said Clinton, " and exceeds any idea I had-entertained of the beauty of a cotton plantation." Clinton took much interest in inspecting the seed, the green as well as the opened bolls, and the .manner :in which it was gathered by the slaves, with their aprons and baskets. It was wonderful to him what a mighty power exOted in a single -plant, and he was struck with the .immense amount of force which it-took, not only to cultivate it, but to gather the crop, which he saw had to be done by hand, from each boll at a time.. ' The white man," said Percival, i cannot endure the labor, the heat of the sun,andthe dangers of some portion ofthe cotton- grgong region, which are requisite to make this crop. g               .   810 *  ,  ETHEL SOMERS; OR, Experience has shown thathe will sicken and die in the lowlands upon the. banks of rivers, whebre the negroes will continue fat, cheerful, and healthy. The white man, exposed to the 'hot .southern sun, especially in low, damp regions, in the rich valleys of our great rivers, where cotton, sugar-cane, and rice grow so luxuriantly, soon sinks beneath the effects of climate. While the negro is susceptible to disease from the malaria of open lowlands, experience has shown that he is greatly less so than the white races. I am not able, to explain the reason, but naturalists know that such is the fact, and so do the owners of, the slaves. In the tropics, and in all sections bordering upon them, the white races have to depend upon the black. - The dark skin and peculiar constitution of the negro enable -him to endure the most intense heat.- He will delight inm exposure to the sun, from which the white man shrinks with" dread. To the one, it is a positive pleas- ure; to the other, an insupportable burden. Nature itself has marked out the positions for the two races. History records no instance in which the black races have, been found in the high temperate latitudes. Pro- vidence has given the negro a constitution suitable to endure heat, and'the rapid exhalations which it pro- duces. Hei grows strong under our burning sun. On the other hand, he suffers from the cold weather, in which the white man delights. He is suited by nature, capacity, and constitution, to labor in these hot and prolific,regions of the earth, in which the'whites experience lassitude and debility, both physical and  mental." '"Is not that," observed Clinton, "attributable in a great:degree to habit? If the white man were raised to work i' the sun and the lowlands, would he nv othecoe as capable of enduring the heat and climate /  !'            '*  .   THE FATE OF THE 'UNION',      81 as the negro?" '"I think not," replied Percival. "At least, observation and experience have not sanctioned such a conclusion. It is my opinionsthat if an equal number of whites and blacks, after having beeninured to the same kind of life and work, were to be placed in localities such as we have spoken of, five of the former would die from the effects of climate to one of the latter." You think, then," said Clinton, "that the negroes are best suited for warm, and the Caucasian races for cold climates?"!"Most assuredly," said Per- cival. "Then," observed Clinton, " as the Afican is made to toil for the white races in warm  climates, would it not be fair for the Caucasian to toil for the African in cold?" Percival smiled at this sequence of Clinton's, and said, "It might be, if the African were superior to the Caucasian; if he could by his arts, and skill, and arms, invade the regions of the whites and subject them to his power." "But," said Clinton, "do you not think that the African is capable of a high civilization? If directed properly, could he not become learned and skilled in the arts which adorn the civiliza- tion of the whites?" "That question," replied Perci- val, "ought to be considered as settled by the history of the African race, for four thbusand years. All other people with complexions varying from the dark brown of the Egyptian to the transparent white of the Cau- casian, have, at some time. and in some way, burst the bonds-of savage ignorance and superstition which sur- rounded them, and exhibited some skill, artscience and civilization. But the African, fom  the days of Homer to. the present time, witnessed the civilization of the Egyptians, the Phoenicians, the Greeks, and Romans, without catching a ray of their light, or inm-  tating one of their customs. The African walked upon *                  e ..   1812. I     BeH iiL SOMERS; OR, the banks of the Nile, and imagined the pyramids and the sphinxes to have-been placed there. from the began ning of time. The monuments of Egyptian science and skill made no impression upon his benighted and stupid intellect. He went back to his native haunts, delighted to escape from these wonders of art, to look with supe- rior pleasure upon the hyena, the crocodile, or the ana- conda, however terrible they were. He delightedin the savage ignorance that surrounded him. The same men- tal darkness which covered his land still covers it. The traveler, whether he ascends to the sources of the Nile, or penetrates the interior upon the waters of the Senegal or the Nigr, finds them the same stolid and stupid savages they were when the Greeks and the Romans, thousands of years before, explored their regions from  motives of curiosity or- gain. He who follows the ,course of empire from the remotest ages of the world, will find the Africans outside .barbarians from the ear- liest periods of history to the present moment. Why this, unless they are constituted mentally inferior to the other races? The Indians have excited the admi. ration of the world-by the eloquence of some of their warriors and chiefs. Who ever heard of an orator among the Africans?" "I must interrupt you there," said Clinton. "I was informed by an acquaintance in Mis- sissippi, a very amiable, accomplished and reverend gentlman, that he had listened with great pleasure to the sermons of several black ministers in his section of country. One of them, he stated-to me, was really elpoqent, and even he himnself, though highly educated, wasw as he said, deeply affected by his touching appeals."!' "Ah I that may be true," said Percival, but those black preachers obtained their light by constant con- tact with the white. I am speaking of Africans in   THE FATE OF THE. UNION.     813 their own country, where they have been left to frame their governments and social institutions for themselves. I am awarethat the blacks become intelligent- among the whites.  It is their good fortune that they are among them, to be led, guided and governed by their superior intelligence. Suppose, however, that all the slaves in the southern states were to become colo- nized upon the coast of Africa and left to themselves, after all that they have seen and heard here.  What would become of them? They would soon sink into barbarism, and become as ignorant and savage as the aborigines of that country.    The experiments in Jamaica and other West India islands prove what their fates would be if left to self-government. i  It is a wise provision of Providence that slaves were brought to this country. The institution, as it exists here, has proved to be a blessing to the slaves as well as their masters, and not less so to the people of the North than to either. Their labor'has opened our rich and ex- tended section of country, and poured, incidentally, into the-lap of the North the means which have added so rapidly to her wealth and; importance. The negro, in his barbarism -for four thousand years, has shown his incapability of mental creations by which to rise in the scale of social existence. Coming in contact with the white man as a freeman, he feels the blight, and will assuredly disappear as the snow before a warm and genial sun. It has been so with the Indians. It is so with the negroes at the North. The statistics of the North and the South show that the slaves of the latter are better fed, clothed and housed than the black freemen of the North. Your philanthropists at the North, Clinton, ought to cease to revile the South for denying sufficient food and sleep to the slaves and im EThEUL SOMERS; OR, posing excessive tasks upon them, at least, until they can give somei satisfactory reason for the difference in the increase of the blacks of the two sections." CHAPTER XXXIV. THUS they conversed upon the subject of slavery, Penland all the while taking a deep interest in every- thiig calculated to remove Clinton's prejudices; for both from considerations of relationship by marriage, his great esteem for him, and-his ardent desire to advance the cause of the South, and restore peace and fraternal affection between the two sections of the Union, he de- sired to secure the aid at the North of one as gifted-as he was, and who promised to occupy a high and in- fluetial position in-society. While he and Penland were seated in the parlor, Percival (who had been out consulting with his manager) came in and said, "You remember Cesar, Mr. Clinton; he has often spoken of  you, and will, while he lives, feel deeply grateful to you for your kindness to him in the city of New York." "Certainly I do," replied Clinton. "Do you know him? is he in this section?"  "He belongs to me," replied percival, " and is now in the portico, desiring, as he says, to pay his best respects to 'Mars Clinton.'" "I shall be particularly glad to see him," said Clintpn, who rose immediately and walked to the portico. 'LWhy, Cesar, how do you do? " said he, as he shook the old negro heartily by the hand. " God bless you, Mars Clinton," said Cesar. "I am glad to see you once more, and speshily down here. in the South. I'se   THE'FATE OF THE UNION.   815   thought on you and membered you in my prars ever sense I lef' you in New York. I hope God's bless'd you in every thing sense then." Clinton,-who had been impressed by the fervid sincerity of Cesar, and really had become attached to him for his virtues and good qualities, spoke to him  with great kindness. " Why, Cesar," said he, "I am not certain that I should have known you had I met you alone in Jhe road, or the field. You have fattened a great deal. This climate must agree with you better than that of New York." The truth is, Cesar was a negro who had a good deal of pride, and he had shaved, put on his best clothes, and come out rigged as he usually was when called upon to marry the Scipios and Nancies on his master's plantation and those of his neighbors. He was dressed in a full suit of black, and looked the very pic- ture of content and happiness, as he stood-holding a re- spectable beaver in his hand, while his face beamed with satisfaction at seeing Clinton, who had befriended him under such trying circumstances. Cesar's hair was quite gray, and, combed back from his forehead, added in no small degree to the dignity of his appearance. "Mr. Clinton," said Penland, "has come, Cesar, to buy you from your master. He wants to take you back-to New York and give you your freedom."  Cesar, with something of an incredulous smile; observed " EfI had to go back to New York, I wood sooner go with Mars Clinton than any body I ever seed there; but that place wont do for black folks. Ef I could always be close to Mars Clinton, I cood have some hopes of gittir' long i but that would be onpossible. I suspect tho' that you  are just talkin' to see how the idee would 'feet me. Ef I'd a had somebody to send me home like the 'postle Paul did Nesmus, I'd a got back here from the Norf 816       EM'1AEL SOMERS; OR, long afore I did. Black folks and white folks,"said he, "was never made to live together on terms of 'quality. Ef a nigger wants to find that out let him be fool enuf to :ru, away from his marster like I did, and:go to the Norf on the principles of the Declarashun of 'D-pendence. I'm gwine to stay home the balance of my life, sartain as Moses ef I can. It skeers me to think of the Norf. I'm like Julius, who was thare with me.. Julius said as we come along home on the kars, that-a hundred 'bolitionists couldn't swade him to go back ag'in. He said they mout as well talk to a ded possum as to talk to him any more 'bout the blessin's of libity. Mars Horace here told me this mornin' that mos' of the niggers in Africa was owned by other nig. gers. Ef that's a fac' I don't want to go thar. I've seen niggers in 'thority. Ef any body's' to own me I want it to be a white man. There an't one nigger in a thousand but what's spiled by 'thority. It makes um fools. They almost think they are white, and are as onresonable as Satan, who tries to coax white an' black to love him better than the Lord. Come 'long, Julius,". said ,Cesar, seeing him walking slowly up from around the- house; " come up and pay your 'spects to Mars Clinton." "Julius, did you say? is he here, too?" "Yes," said Percival. "I purchased hir from Colonel Somers. He sold him because (although he would have died for his 'young master) his becoming a fugi- tive was the indirect cause of his death, and his pres- ence was'a 'source -of painful memory to his famnily.!' Julius had been much affected at being sold, and at the reason for it, and: that was the cause of his shyness, on -the present- occasion. - 'Why, Julius, I had no idea that I should-see you here; I thought you were at oodlawn.'   Julius' looked, downcast, but hex was -    THE FATE OF THE UNION.     317 really very glad to see Clinton, to whom he made a low bow, and whose extended hand he shook with humble pride; and a'warmth excited by feelings of gratitude. "It mos' killed me at first," said Julius, "to be sold away from home, but I, 'zerved it alL None of 'umrn had anything agin me. Marster nuver struck met a lick, and he and old missus, and young missus, all spoke kind to me; but it was a pain to 'um. to know that my 'havior had caused Mars Charles to go whar the 'boli- tionists wus 'nt satusfied with nothin' but takin' his life. I wish it had been mine 'stid a his'n."But you have got a good home though, Julius." "Yes, sir, I couldn't be better satusfi'd no where in the world   1 'septin at my old home. Mars Horace knows I'm well pleased, with that 'seption." "Certainly, Julius," said Percival, " and I do not think any the less of you for feeling as you do. Your old Master was very kind to you in every way. I do not wonder you regretted leaving him. How good he was when he fourid that you had been rolling:your-eyes at 'Eberlinah' to agree for her to go with you. That showed he had no bad feelings towards you. But Pompey hated her going, Julius; he looked at you as mad as if he could have eat you up." Julius' face exhibited a smile of triumph as his master said this, and remarked, "He was madder  with Eberlinah than me, for when marster told her she might stay with Pompey or go with me, she like to a  - fainted at the very idee of Pompey. That what he hated. He -was a foolish nigger to think' Eberlinah' O '  would take him in prefrance ,to me; sich a handsome -m nigger as he was. His eyes were like a target what     the volunteers shoots at, and his mouf was most as big I '; as a new-moon-he I he I Pompey was a foolish nig-    : ger!"' Julius' could not conceal the high estimati6n  ; - ' .?   318       ETHEL SOMERS; ORB - in which he held his own good looks. Pride of person and dress was one of his predominant traits, as it uni- - versally is, in a greater or less degree, of all the Afri- can race. "Well, I suppose, Julius," said Clinton, "you and 'Eberlinah 'were married.", Julius looked at uncle Cesar as if he thought it had come to his time to say something, and Cesar was not very backward in coming forward when he had the opportunity of allud- ing to his exploits in marrying darkies. "Yes," said Uncle Cesar in his expressive language, "I jined Julius and Eberlinah in the yoke of the marrige tie. They both promised to lub, onor an' obey wun anuther. That wLas suffishunt. So I turned 'um loose 'mung the com- pany, and while thar was two un 'um in pint of body, thar was'only one un 'umrn in pint of the marrige law. The bucks they danced with 'Eberlinah, .and the fare secs they danced with Julius. But they both recum- lected the sollum wurds I'd spok'n, and while they floted round and round thay look'd over the sholders of ebrybody else at wun anuther mos' all the time; but Julius had the 'vantage of Eberlinah, for she bein' loest sumtimes coodn't see him good over the shirt collars of the bucs. But I musn't trouble you too long, Mars Clinton, and the other gentleman, with 'scriptions of the sumptuiosity of that 'lightful accashun. It lasted mos' till the orrola of the mornin' broke in the eest. Iwill, tharefore, 'ciude my 'count of the accashun b by sayintthat Eberlinah in, her'white dress with the , red sash- round her waste, and the ribbins and white roses, and beeds in her lubly hare, looked the very 'fection of buty, and Julius looked as hapy as ef he i had n't bin, like misef, a run away, rascal mos' to the norf'pole. All' the cumpny 'joyed theyselves, the aromstocracy as well as the kommon niggers. Julius   'JL c ,^l VDL J? Ad Jd ' z ' U1'1"d N. 1JL * -1 never wil be happier than he wus tell he gits to the New Jeruslem, if he ever gits thar, which I pray the Lord he may. I'd have more hopes of him ef he'd never gone to the Norf, but then that's not so much in the way when I recumlecs that I went thar misef. The Lord have mussy on both un us." Clinton was much amused at Uncle Cesar's brief account of the wedding, and at Julius' looks all the while, for his eyes brightened up and his face beamed as if, it was an oc- casion to be proud of, and to be remembered in this world and the other too. Such scenes are common all over the South, and the owners of servants often inter- est themselves in making them the occasion of as much eclat and enjoyment-as possible for bride, bridegroom and guests. We doubt whether the earth can exhibit a happier, jollier set of mortals congregated together, than a company of southern slaves at a wedding party of their own color. Iideed, the southern slaves are not only happier than northern free negroes, but the poorer classes in almost every country in the world. Their quarters ring with, merry laughter, and are often enlivened with dances to the sound of the fiddle and the banjo. The voice of the happy black man is heard through the woods, cheering on his dogs in the hunt of his favorite " varmints," the "coon" and the " possum." In this sport they are often joined by their youug mas-, ters, who participate in shaking the possum from, the persimmon or haw tree, or felling the stately oak or gum to catch him. The negro does not resort to these , hunts to obtain subsistence, for he has an ample abun- dance of meat, and bread, and vegetables.. It is to -him a sport in -which he delights. But it is also true that he delights in the flesh pot when the " possum7 is the dainty. He esteems its flesh superior to that of the    :820 -     - THflL SOMERS; OR, -pig, and would turn up his nose at the finest venison in comparison. No one was fonder of "coon" and ' possum hunting" than Uncle Cesar before he became a preacher, and he ceased to engage in the sport then, only,- because it was necessary for him to maintain -the dignity of his new relation to his black brethren. He said'in ,the 'interview which we are describing,!'I when wunce, a young man, thought that the fust leader in the 'possum hunt' was, 'sept Ginral Wash- inton, the greatest man that- ever lived. Old marser said Ginral Washinton wus the greatest, and when he said anything twas n't wuth no man's while to 'diet it. Old father Solmon knowed somethin, but he was no whar to old marser. God bless his ole soul. He's ded an' gone, but I wanted to go with him when he went. I ant got over it yit, an'I never shall. He was so good  to his sarvants.- He wanted'them to do fare wurk, and that was rite, for ef sarvants don't do that they will brake- thar marsters, an' thar's no tellin' whare they may go. But he wus always kind. He treeted 'umrn like they wus human beings, took keer of umr when sick, when ole, and spoke kind to 'umrn when they dun wrong. I1l nuver forget his dyin' hour. His sarvants wepped like his chillun (ole missus, too, God bless her, had gone afore him), an' he told 'umrn all good by, and that they mus' luv the Lord an' meet -him in heven.' Clinton saw on Percival's plantation, for the first time, a^native African. He was a very old negro, aving' been brought to this country about the year 1.98,when he was upwards of twenty-five years of a"e. It:was difficult to understand his language, as it 31:)nsisted of a:mixture of his native tongue and EiiSh. According to his own account, hemhad been madei;'a:prisoner of war in a battle betweentwo African   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      321     r kings. The manner in which some of the prisoners were put to death by the victors, according to "his ac- count, was horrible in the extreme. Some were tied to trees, when the flesh was cut by piecemeal. from the fleshy part of their legs, arms and sidesand this opera- tion was continued until they died from extreme tor- ture and loss of blood. , During the whole time some of the victors danced around them, howling, screaming -. and grinning in- the most diabolical manner. Others, among whom was himself, were tied in the woods to -be devoured by wild beasts. He remained thus tied durinrg a whole night. He said the moon was shining bright, and he could see the wolves and hyenas gliding and dashing about, seeking their victims, whose screams made the air ring for several miles around, as these animals clutched them with their teeth and claws, and tore the flesh from their bodies. Every moment he expected them to seize upon him, but fortunately he and' some others escaped, and in the morning a slattee (a negro slave merchant) purchased -them, and having conveyed them to one of the white settlements on the coast, sold them to a white slave merchant, by whom they were brought to the United States. 'Old- Lewis; or Bamba Cumbo, as he was called in A frica, was fond of relating what he saw and remembered of the customs of his own country, not because the re- miniscejnces were pleasing to him, but to gratify the garrulous propensity which attaches to the extremaely aged, especially when they had seen much of the world. -I 7 : Old Lewis claimed to have been a great traveler, and -.  to have seen most of the world on which we live, anid he would often control the wild, rattling young negroes :j abouthim, as:he sat smoking his pipe before the daoor  -:l of his comfortable cabin, by: threateniz them with "* -   822.      -ET'EL SOMERS; O'R, - some African hobgoblins, in. the form of a snake, a four-footed beast, or a wild man of the woods. He declared that, from the time he landed upon the shores of this country to the moment of which we are writing, he had felt that'he was in the African heaven, without dying to get there, ; There was no comparison, he said, between plantation life in the southern states and life in Africa, even if the black man should be- a slave here, while he may'have been a kind of freeman there. He was one of those who was in what is termed good condition in Africa; that is, while he was a subject of a negro king, he was not a slave. But most of them, he said, were slaves, and were treated infinitely worse there than the slaves are here by the hardest masters. B Old Lewis' account of slavery in Africa, its cruelties and horrors, were such as modern travelers have de- clared, after personal observation in various portions of that country. He described some of the lands in Africa as being as rich as any in this country,- but -everywhere the country looked wild and gloomy, at least, he said it looked so to him now in memory, as he contrasted the bamboo huts and corn-stalk hovels and mud houses there with the great towns and culti- vated fields and fine houses here. He said,' to use his own language, "Niggers am de next ting to nuttin in my kuntry to what dey am in dis;'" and he was right. There, four fifths of them are the slaves of persons of their own color, who are ignorant, superstitious, and often almost as ferocious as the lions and tigers that -prowl in their woods and jungles. How much better off are they under enlightened,and Christian masters here, than there, where they often become in war the victims of-fiendish cruelty and horrid deaths; -and are, in some sections, served up as dainty dishes in their mid   TR E FATE OP THE UNION.     :323 night revels I The slave trade has saved thousands of miserable Africans from the most cruel fates. The trading forts and settlements of the English, the Dutch, the Portuguese, and other people upon the banks of the Senegal, the Gambia, the Rio Grande, and other places along the coast of that benighted region of the earth, saved many a poor Taloff, Feloop, VFoulah and "Mandingoe, as well as inhabitants of more interior regions, from the most dreadful-barbarities and deaths. Who, that reflects for a moment, can hope that the day will ever come when slavery will not exist in Africa? It is said to have been already introduced into the colony at Liberia. Are not the blacks in- finitely better off in the southern states than they would be as slaves in- Africa, even if the natives of that country possessed the capacity to establish and main- tain civilized governments? But four thousand years have proven that they lack the mental, and moral' stamina essential 'to such a consummation.  Africa will stand, in all the-immense extent over which her black populations are spread, a monument of mental and moral desolation and. barbarism, until the intellect of the white races shall shed over it the- friendly rays of science, art and civilization. It is now a vast moral and mental Sahara. The negro is almost as wild as the hyena and the wolf that prowl in the desolate mountains, or around the rude abodes of the people. Without the aid of superior intellect, another four thousand years will roll off, and leave her a she is, without a single proud column rising on the banks of the Niger, or in the midst of her mud-walleda d bambooed cities. She has no public spirit, nor public 'works, nor arts, nor-navies, nor lighthouses, nor sym- bols of mind to elevate her above the stolid ignorance - er.;. to .    E,       E'iMiL SOMERS; OR,  her children, .as it has been exhibited as far back'as in'an records can tell the story of human life and action. Nature doubtless exhibits there as much that is beautiful and :sublime as in other great regions of the earth, but soul i wanting, intellect is wanting, to make art rival .nature, and mingle their charms together. If lefi to the care, the direction and government of her own people, with minds as dark as their skins, Africa wll be for ever distinguished, less by her arts than, the prowl:of her wolves, the roar of her lions, and the huge coils ofher serpents. Philanthropy may indulge itself in-sickly sentimentality, but it cannot alter the laws offiature nor'change the destiny which the finger of Deity seems to have marked for the African. Left to himself, he is weak, ignorant, barbarous and unhappy; gulded by the white races, he enjoys the highest happi. nesslof which his nature is susceptible. - During the two days Clinton and Penland remained on Percival's plantation, the former had ample oppor- tunity to observe the government of the slaves, and, indeed, everything connected with plantation life. He saw the slaves moderately tasked, cheerful, contented anhd happy.  It could not be otherwise there, for Perci- val was a man of good heart, and when the owner of slaes possesses that, it is sufficient, independent of inte- rest, to insure'them a high degree of comfort and pros- peity.   Clinitoh and Penland accompanied     Percival- to look at, the plantations of several of his neighbors, where-the. former saw the same order,, regularity and comfort.  Having completed the object of their visit, they took passage on a boat for New Orleans.   CHAPTER" XXXV. WE,will leave them for the present to return to Mr. Mezenow's. He related to Cumberland, as follows, the story of his escape from the clutches of Count Oltonetz. "I lived, as I informed you, about ten miles, nearly south, from Revel, in the province of the same name. The second night after I reached home, about ten o'clock, the door of my room, was suddenly opened, and two men, in disguise, approached my bedside. I had retired before my wife, being much fatigued :by my exertions preparatory to taking a final leave of my home and country. One of the men held a lamp in one hand, and in the other a pistol: His companion also held a pistol in his right hand. One of the men, addressing me, said, 'Ypur life will be the for- feit for making the least noise, or attempting to escape.' 'My wife and daughters,' said I-' Your wife and daughters', said the man, who first addressed me, 'are now awaiting your presence to go witl ius, and the sooner you prepare to join them the better.' Struck with surprise and horror, and threatened with instant death, I asked ,them  the object of their visit, and to what place they intended to convey ris, 'We can wait on you no longer,' said he; ',there are, others with us; resistance is vain. Submit at once, or I will - take your lifeless body to- the place- of destination,' As he- said. this, he pointed his. pistol at. me,. as if determined to fire it.   My   solicitude  for  my wife and daughters caused me .to say that I    would yield at, once to-their wishes. One of the men then'   V326    H :. v B15 ETA SOMERS; OR, placed his pistol on the table, on the opposite side of theroom, and, approaching me, began to confine my hands as soon as I was dressed, while the other stood by all the while with his pistol pointed at me. After my hands were bound, 'they led me to the outer door, where .I saw a vehicle standing, with a driver ready seated, holding thereins of his horses, and at whip in his hand.  It appeared to be divided into two apartments, into one of which  I was Placed. -I thought, "as I approached the vehicle, that I saw one of my servants -in close conversation with one of the party who were thus forcibly, and without a moment's warning, taking us from our home. his enabled me to 'conjecture how my wife and ;daughters had been seized with so much secrecy; for, as events turned out, they had been first secured and placed in the other apartment of the carriage. As soon as I was seated it drove off. My first thoughts -were of Siberia, -.and the horrors of that conjecture were ;by;no means alleviated by imagining I could hear cfaint:and suffocating sobs in the other division of the carriage.: The night was intensely dark, for it was ex- ceebdingly cloudy, and a storm seemed to threaten. The driver was evidently acquainted with the road, or was reckless as to consequences, for he drove at ;a furious rate. We had not long left our home, when :impetuous windsrent the forest trees, aind swept, like ivirsible demons, over the plains. Incessant thunders :also 1seemed to shake the heavens and earth.- The rain 8soon poured down in perfect torrents. So awful and dangerous was the scene, that the driver stopped his horses;, and:I could hear the murmurings of a con- -versation- between -hinm and the several horsemen whno were in attendance. But this delay lasted for-a \                    .   THE FATE Or THE UNIONe.     .827 few minutes only. On 1ihedrove again, more furiously ,than ever. The storm began to abate in-about an hour, and it afforded me a melancholy satisfaction to hear the thunder rolling and grumbling in the distance. The driver put his horses up to almost their full speed, and while going at that rate, the vehicle was suddenly overturned. Oh! what-a despairing, gurgling shriek issued from the other divisioni  I soon saw that I was not hurt; but I felt as if my heart would break with anxiety for my wife and daughters. I cried aloud, and besought our persecutors, in the most imploring terms, to let me see them. To this they yielded; for as soon as the carriage was righted, they saw that my wife was dreadfully bruised, and Ilmena but little less  so, Elizabeth having escaped unhurt. My wife was perfectly conscious, .but complained of her arm and side. -The fiends consented that she should ride in the apartment with me, and I so arranged the seats, that she could partly lie down, with her head resting upon my bosom. It was evident that- the -strength of the horses was nearly spent, for they panted for breath, and the foam poured from their bodies and mouths. Two of the horses of the outriders were soon put in their places, and these were mounted by the horsemen, and, after a delay of ten or; fifteen minutes, we- con- tinued our melancholy journey.;: Thus we, traveled the remainder of the night. At last the .vehile :stopped, and we alighted at an old dark-looking house,-situated upon the shore of Lake Peipus. The gray streak:of morning had begun to stretch along the eastern sky. The weather- had .become clear, and a-: few stars were till' visible,- growing every moment dimmer, until, one by one, like elves, theyr diappeared in the brighteaing  skies. :I saw at once the reason why the driver liad a.   *    .   -^28      -itslI SOMERS; OR, ' tgedjonb-hor ses' at'so rapd, a rate. It was to' reach thishi'ise:'dug the dark hours of the night. The bui{din cosis't6ed of two stories, "and, as far as I could see, :was^unoccepledprevious to:our reaching it. The w.'id0:were ;few: and small. My 'daughters were aced in' a room' above, and my wife and myself in one'adjotiing. The room in which we were placed, was a:large anld gloomy  looking hall, containing two windows, which- opened upon the lake. These were :huiig:with; black, as if to give it a more mysterious s-a: dismal appearance. A single lamp was placed upon ataiblemin a corner, where itemitted a dull and melancholy light. The rooms contained some furni- ture, beds, chairs, tnd tables. I found that my wife was ,greatly enfeebled by her fright, -fall, and subsequent fatigue. - She seemed very thoughtful and sad, and sighed, as if she felt an inward dread of something more than the uncertainty of our fate. Our daughters Were permitted to remain in the, room with her, and we did and said everything in our power to soothe, and cheer her. -I asked one of the men, who Continued to wear a mask, if he would permit me to have a phy,- cisian. He 'shook his head, and remained silent. Whie endeavoring to prevail upon him to send for one, my daughters screamed, and rushing to the bed, I found that my-wife had' fainted.- We bathed her face and fan eniier. In *-a few moments she opened: her eyes,; loked at her daughters and mysell; and smiled. I feared:-thheiworst.: She almostf i mm-ediately .s - oo agin,tai rom :that she iever recovered- In less: th tet-iniaitdes- she was a corpse. My daughters: threw their arims rroulnd her and wept aloud. At that mo  eht tW  mren enitered the room with pistols in:their h  $as.;. :They pointed to my daughters, andtput their ,     i  -t   THE' FATE OP THE UNION.      829 fingers to'their lips. I understood theni, and whispered to them that they must not exhibit:th eir grief .aloud. We-then knelt at- the bedside, and silently prayed to Heaven. I did not know where she came from, but an old woman soon made her appearance, and, with the assist'ance of my poor daughters, Prepared my wife for the grave. During' the day I was informed that she would be buried in' the dusk of the evening. H asked permission to, see the :grave, but was told that neither I-nor my daughters could see it, or be present at the burial. Shortly after the twilight hour fourmen came into the room and placed her in a long chest, which had a lid, and was fastened with a lock. I thought my daughters would have died of grief as they bore her from the room, and I felt as if my own heart would break. We' went to my daughters' room and looke1d -and listened, but could see and hear- nothing of them outside of the building. We waited some minutes, listening and looking in vain. Finally, we went to the room in which she died, and soon heard something like the paddling of' oars. Forcing open a window and blinds, we saw a small boat making off from the shore. The moon was about half filfl, and by its melancholy light, which fell upon the waters of the lake, we saw the parties, and what we conceived to be the chest. My daughters gave a suppressed scream, and trembled with the violence of their grief. Oh'! it was a mournful sight. We heard the splash of the waters, and it was evident at once that she had-been consigned to the bottom of 'the lake, doubtless to- con- ceal, i far as possible, their inhuman villainyi At .-this house- we remained for; several days, owing, perhaps, to the condition Of Ilmena; for, :in consequence of -her bruises and grief, a slight fever supervened, Wich ;  I         'C *           , f                       I  Ji '   830      ETiL -SOMERS; 'O t -      Qconrnedherto her bed. The third day after my wife's l death, the man who had addressed me on the night we were forced from home, took me into a small room which I had not seen before, and thus addressed me- ,'ount Qltonez,:Mr. Mezenow, has been inconceivably smitten by the charms of your youngest daughter. To him it is a source of the deepest regret that your wife was accidentally killed, No harm was intended to yQou or your family. Driven to desperation by his love 'ofyour daughter, he resorted to violent means to get her in his possession. Yield her to him; let the past be buried, and your daughter will be happy, and:you and-your other daughter prosperous. He is immensely rich and powerful, and can stre w the path of life with roses for the being of whom he is so deeply enamored. What say you?   Shall I report your,acquiescence- your daughter's readiness to be escorted to his castle, that he may be crowned with bliss, and your daughter with the brightest earthly happiness?' My first emo- tions, as he said ,this, were toseize the villain, and en- -deavor to take his life at the risk of my own. But a moment's reflection satisfied me that I could not suc- -ceed, for he held a pistol in his hand, and I had nothing but-my naked hands with which to assault him. My death would seal my daughter's fate, perhaps that of both. Hence, checking my   indignation, I replied, ':ount Oltonetz is a married man.' ' Ah that is true' saidhe, ' but it will not prevent his bestowing wealth fngr,:andfelia ity, upon your daughter. Other nobles areo maed: men, and they have mates beside, who are -happiery than their lawful wives.' I knew that it would  be l-useless, to attempt to influence this abandoned  );wreth .by any appeals to honor and-principle. Hence, i -:Iitol;him , firmly, that I could, not consent to my  I   THE FAT EOF THE UNION.      3881 daughter's dishonor. He seemed to consider me as lost to- all sense of worldly advantage in thus declaring my opposition to the Count's wishes, and intimated plainly, that it would be best for me to re-consider the matter, and yield voluntarily to that which must be an inevitable result. On the next day I thought that I perceived a change of manner in the man who sup- plied us with food and water. He looked at me more kindly, and, contrary to his usual- custom, asked me some questions about my hoime, property, and- people. I replied mildly and sadly to his questions, and finding him still disposed to be communicative, and kind in his manner, I ventured to ask him -if he knew what my destination was to be. Glancing warily around, as if fearful that some one might see or hear him, he said, ' The man who drove you- here is very sorry that he overturned the carriage, and thus was innocently the cause of your wife's death. He wants to talk with you.' ' Ah I' said I, in a low voice, 'do you know why?' 'He can tell you himself,' replied the man. 'How can I see him?' I eagerly'inquired. 'That isAthe diffi- culty,' replied the man; 'but I will endeavor to pro- cure him the opportunity. Two of the men who were here are gone, and willH be absent- at-least two days yet. They received  orders from Count Oltonetz, which causes their absence.  The driver can tell you more than I can. He, another man, the old woman, and myself, are all -that are here. This iman, who is now below, is one of the most blood-thirsty beings on 'earth. He keeps his person loaded with weapons, and if he knew I was ,talldng to you as I am, my. lFe  wouldn't be my own a minute longer, unless I could preserve it by talking his. When I visit you to-night, I will endeavor to introduce the driver, secretly; for I. . ,      ' ,-,       .   8-22    B'1lfli SOMERS; OR, ' we bhveaexpress orders that no one shall unlock this i6na door'bbuit: the other: keeper and myself. It may be necesary for the driver to remain with: you during the night, That, however, will depend upon circum- stances.  ' :.    - I his man as :he had promised, succeededin intro- duing the driver unperceive and, having done so, he retied. 'Youwished to speak with me,' said I to the :diver. 'Ye sir,' said he; 'but we must be quick. -his keeper,: who has just left, is a serf as well as my- elf. - Both of us have suffered the greatest indignities from- the other keeper below. Within the past few days, and while I was absent, he succeeded in blasting all I possessed of domestic happiness. My wife is no l1nger what she was. It would be useless for me to appeal to Count Oltonetz, for heis now seeking the ruin of your daughter.' If you have the means to favor my:flight, and that of the keeper who has been convers- ing: with you, we will aid-you in making your escape,' EI :haveample means' said I, 'at Revel. I placed them therewith a view to leaving the country myself, and intended to leave my home theC day after that on which ^IWas: forcibly abducted from it. If you and' your fend willrelieve me -from the confinement in which I-am-+now placed, I willrnot only pay your expenses '-to :irglanid or any other country to which you may desirEto:go, but I will place both of you in situations ;Of-ease and comfort.' :'"Then,' said the driver,!I Hi.:!nemy, arrangements to-morrow, and ,will be ?rea  aa short distance:from this house 'to convey -too  aay p acee you-may :appoint.' 'We;will go di- ly -to:l:Revel,' said I,^'where we can be concealed ut-: an- opportunity presents: itself :for Us to safi for i.:Engind;. But,' said I ' how will you escapethe .i , ...           . e     :  , -    THE FATE OF THE UNION.        3' lance of the'keeper below? ', Hegave a;-sardonic laugh as I propounded that question, and I could see: plainly the intentof vengeance in his eye. 'But what will you do with your wife??' said I. 'I will leave her,'siaid he, 'She is criminal as well as the villain who betrayed her.' The accomplice of the driver, feigningsome ex- cuse to unlock the iron door, returned, and the driver retired. -This circumstance excited the other keeper's suspicions, and he was on the lookout. Seeing the driver descend the steps slowly and cautiously, before the door was locked, he immediately discharged his pistol at him, but, fortunately, the missile did not touch his body, and a well-directed aim in return felled the keeper to the floor. The driver then rushed upon him and despatched him with a few blows upon the head. Hearing the noise, the old woman rushed from her. hiding place, which was a cellar under the - house, and began to scream for help. The accom- plice of the driver immediately forced hereto the cel- lar and locked the door, telling her if she made  the least noise again, he would send her after the vil-  lain who was lain. 'We must start,' said the driver quickly,' twenty-four hours sooner than we eXpected. Be in readiness; I will return in half an hour.'- And he was as true as his word. Fortunately Tlmena's health had greatly improved, and when I briefly ex-  plained every thing toher, and askedher if she felt able to travel, she repliedthat she could travel day and night to escape from the horrors of such a place, e W ere all soon in the carriage, anda the dn'er .putiXg :whp to his horses, conveyed us awayfIromtis I scene of dan ger; and death- as fast was we came. 'I knew thatit would not do' to- remain in the .coutry;-a: momentt longer than necessite:requied.: We :readheao dens: -           ,    384      mEfWbL SOMERS; OR, forest just before the break of day, in which we re- mained until the following night, when we resumed our journey. That night we reached Revel, and found no difficulty in obtaining a place of concealment. Early in the morning I found means to convey a message to a warm friend of mine, with whom I had deposited my moneywho undertook to secure a passage for us on some vessel which was bound for England. As good luck would have it, an English vessel was in readiness to sail at noon, and we took passage in her, rejoicing that we had escaped so many dangers, and regretting only that we left behind us my dear angel-wife, resting in the waters of Lake Peipus. We had many sorrow- ful memories of her melancholy fate. Often, during the short time of our confinement upon the shores of the lake, would my daughters and I gaze upon its pla- cid waters; and it seemed like a mournful dream that she, whom we so tenderly loved, was sleeping beneath them.  With one exception, each day after her burial was balmy and bright, and a, sunny silence brooded over the lake and every surrounding object. Oh, how sad were -our hearts while its waters glowed beneath the sun, or were covered with a glittering sheen of silver by the pensive moon at night. '"One afternoon, that before we left, a temporary cloud passed: over the lake. The wind arose and ruf. fled its waters. Then the sad sound of its waves and the wail of the winds were in unison with the sorrows of our hearts. It seemed as if they came to sing a, parting requiem -over the loved one whom we should see no more until the coral groves and pearly alcoves of the deep shall, with the land, yield the dead in the day of resurrection. The day was cloudy when we set sail fitom Revel, and the'weather continued bad for two- Ji   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     385 days in succession. Suddenly, near the close of the second day-counting from noon, when we left-the wind blew a violent gale. Portentous thunders rolled along the angry sky, and evanescent lightnings played like aerial demons, upon the bosom of the black clouds which veiled the sun from sight. The dark green waves, lashed into fury, heaved and foamed and beat around our vessel, driving it to and fro, leaping and quiv- ering over their mountain-tops. It was an awful sight. I had heard from others how old ocean could shake the shores of the world with its tumultuous waters, its tempests and its thunders; but never before had I formed the least conception of the sublimity and the danger of such a scene as that to which I allude. Our stately ship, dashed upon the angry crests of the waters, seemed often just ready to go to pieces or sink beneath them. At one time she was close to the jagged black edges of the rocks, over which the waves-would beat and foam as if contending with them in a furious struggle for supremacy. As the night approached, the storm rapidly abated, but the winds moaned and whis- tled sadly through the cordage, and it was "to me and my daughters a solemn scene, rendered more so by the deep voice of the sailor, which minigled with their fearful notes as -he went the rounds of his lonely watch. I had dreaded landing upon the coast of a cu0ntry which I had resolved to leave forever, almost as much as I did the dangers of being dashed upon the tocks, or sunk in the unfeeling bosom of the ocean. But to our great relief the storm lulled, the waves diminished in vio- lence, and the noble vessel once more rode majestically. on the liquid bosom of the deep blue sea. , I passbver dl intervening scenes until we reached the city of Lon-, don. There I met with an acquaintance from Revel,'   8386      ETHEL SOMERS; OR,. whom I knew to be in the interest of Count 0ltonetz, and fearful of his machinations, we left at once for Liv- erpool, whence we sailed for this happy land of free- dom. I sought"the interior as a matter of choice and safety, for I did not know to what extent the disappoint- ment and vengeance of a demon in human form, such as Count Oltonetz was, might carry him in urging some of his minions to pursue me even to these blessed shores. Pleased with this section, its retirement, the fertility of its soil and the hospitality of the people, I Iocated here. Thte driver, of whom I have so often spoken, has claimed to be my servant, rather than leave me; and he is now here, faithful as a friend, and faithful in the performance of his duties. His accom- plice is living about three miles distant, upon his own farm, which I purchased for him. You know already how Ilmena grieved your absence, and can see in her happy change the joy of her heart in once more meet- ing with him who not only won, but deserves its love," Mr. Mezenow related to Cumberland many facts rela- ' tive to the serfs of Russia, sqme of which had come under his own- observation, which proved that their condition was, beyond all calculation, wretched, in com- parison with' that of the southern slaves. Forty-four millions ofRussians, out -of the sixty millions of popula- tion of the empire, are, according to his account, the most abject and degraded slaves upon earth. White as the'emperor or nobles who own them, their labor and that of their wives and children, for more than half of their time, belongs. to their masters; and this is often exacted under the bloody lash of the knout. Brutalized from their births, reared'in: ignorance, menials in every sense of the word, flogged for the most trivial reasones, they are elevated, in their own    THEF "FATE OF THE UNION.      887 estimation, but a few degrees above the horse and the dog. If the serf be a man of family, he is liable at any moment to be torn from his wife, to meet almost cer- tain death in the imperial army. The bastinado si- lences the first murmur of complaint, and the bayonet the last. ' His children are scattered in the army, the factories, and the mines, to drag out their miserable lives, overtasked and unmercifully whipped, until, crushed in spirit, they drop unpitied into ignominious graves. The wives of the serfs are often taken before their eyes to be subjected to moral deaths; and no matter what affection may exist between them and their husbands, neither dare utter a murmur of complaint, for fear of the terrible,knout, solitary confinement, torture, or death. Vice, want, uncertainty, incessant dread, intol- erable and hopeless misery, prevail universally among them. But evils of a" still greater magnitude attach to persons in higher positions in society. Men of charac- ter are often seized at midnight, manacled, confined in close vehicles made for the purpose, and, without a moment's warning, are hurried off to Siberia, that icy, hill of thee Russian. Even women, refined and ten- derly reared in the lap of wealth and ease, are dragged from the arms of their husbands and sent to that inhos- pitable region, where they wither and die far away from their once happy homes, often sinking into their  graveswithout ever hearing from their husbands, their children, or friends. The delicate female, whom the winds of a southern climate were never permitted to visit too roughly, incurring the displeasure of a heartless noble, for no reason, perhaps, but a refusal to dishonor her name, is often hurried off alone and unprotected, in the wantonness of inhuman cruelty, to linger out a few despairing years in a climate where the wolf can 15   8388    .   'i:ETL SOMERS; OR, scarcely live, and the dog, unless covered with furs, stiffens and dies with cold. Can human imagination -picture a more horrid fate than theirs? Can it look upon a sadder picture than that of the tender wife, or the blooming girl, transplanted thus from her happy home, lying like a pale wild flower frozen in death in thelice-bound desert of Siberia? It is horrible to con- template, yet too true to be denied. And yet, the abolition philanthropists of the North will present the institution of slavery at the South as' the- most unre- Renting system of persecution that the world can ex- hibit an institution marked with the exercise of every. kindly virtue, in which the master and the slave feel a mutual attachment; and the latter, in seven cases out of ten, is the freer from care and trouble, and the happier of the two. Mr. Mezenow expressed to Cumberland the opinion, that the southern slaves were the. best cared for of any laboring class of the poor that he had seen, and that the influence of the institution upon whites and blacks was salutary to both. He had, also, practically shown his approbation of it in the purchase of a number of slaves, by whose labor his plantation was kept in awjigh state of culti- vation. Cumberland found no difficulty in compre- hending the value of the institution; for he had often heard his father deplore the infatuation of the British government in emancipating the slaves in their West India possessions. He had examined the subject, both in- its moral and political aspects; and adhered, to the opinion, still entertained by many Englishmen, that slavery is right of itself, and immensely conducive to the prosperity of all countries which produce cotton :and sugar, and other great staples of the warm southern  * e 1m6B.   4 i    .      ./   THE FATE OF THE UNISON.      339  CHAPTER XXXVI. As the boat which contained Clinton and his friends passed along the shores of the State of Mississippi, his mind was agitated with many disturbing thoughts. He had said nothing of visiting Woodlawn, and yet the felt a strange-no, a natural and heart-impelling desire to see, once more, the friends who had so cor- dially welcomed, and so hospitably entertained him there. His love affair with Miss Somers was over, he reasoned to himself, but that, he hoped, had not de- stroyed her esteem for him, as he felt it had not im- paired his for her. Why, therefore, should he pass by, especially as his dear friend, Mary Raymond, was also there, and as she, herself, had informed him by letter, in delicate health? The truth is, Clinton had not become exempted from   the power of Ethel's charms. He stoically taught himself to believe that all hope of renewing that affair 'with her was lost in the shadows of uncertainty, like a ripple at twilight in an expanded lake. But this was only a self-decep- tion. During his artificial professions to -iss Eustace, and the whole time of his engagement, his heart was Ethel's. It was only after the severest struggle, found- ed, as he believed, upon necessity, the impossibility of an union with Ethel, that he had striven to banish her from his thoughts. But that was an impossibility. He might as well have tried to turn back the sunbeam to the source from whence it came, as to efface from mem- ory the loveliness of her face, the graceful outlines of her figure, and the magic influence which they ex-   1'i'THLK SOMERS; OR, ercised over his heart, Penland had watched his countenance, and saw that it betrayed some powerful secret emotions, especially as the boat neared the city of Vicksburg. When within ten miles of that place, seeing Clinton's increasing anxiety, in order to test him, he observed: "We are now close to Vicksburg, Clin- ton. Fortune is a fickle customer. When you passed here; going down-stream last spring, the world looked as bright as if two suns shone upon it, and now, I sup-  pose, you are quite content to see it brightened by one. Well, that is the lot of life.  You did not think then that you would so cheerfully pass again without even caring to change from boat to cars. Circumstances alter cases materially. Say you so?"  "They cer- tainly do," replied Clinton; " but I was just thinking that it would not be amiss to turn to'the left for a day or two, to see old friends for friendship's sake." Pen- land laughed heartily at this remark, and said, " Not yet, Clinton. Things have not ripened for the second visit. You must see more of the South; more of the institution. The fact is, you must become a convert. After your Eustace scrape, it will be necessary for you to become a perfect pro-slavery zealot. These girls can stand almost anything better than to be deserted so suddenly. The truth is, it would not surprise me if Ethel has been decidedly cooled off by that affair. You jumped at a new love so dreadfully quick. She knows nothing of your motives, and, doubtless attri- butes your conduct to an extreme susceptibility. True love runs deep; takes a strong hold. It sticks to the heart like spots do to the leopard, or a black skin to a negro. Ethel is one of-our girls that will do to bet upon. After what you had done-and she, I have no doubt, was fully informed of it-she might have ao-   THE FATE OF THE UNION.          341 cepted another; but I'll stake the rights of the South upon the fact, that she would never have done so while she could have supposed it possible that you would have remained true, and might have overcome your political scruples. When such a heart as hers is wounded; by infidelity, fickleness, or sudden indiffer- ence, it is difficult to win it again. No; you are not ready to go to Woodlawn.   You can, if you wish, write a letter to Miss Raymond; state that business forces you to pass by, and conclude by sending your very kindest regards to all the friends at Woodlawn. Say that you will endeavor to call if you shall return this way, from the Crescent City. Such a letter will do no harm. It will present you to their minds. Ethel may think of you as a vision floating in the neigh- borhood. The-thought, as you are now free again, may impress her favorably. A moving, passing, but unseen image of what was once so bright and dear, may wake sweet-remembrances of the past, -and pre- pare the way for final triumph, should you become the convert which I hope you will. -- But in all seriousness, it will be best for you and her that you should remain apart, unless propitious circumstances should enable you once more to offer her your heart and hand-a happy convert and a happier lover." Influenced by these considerations, Clinton yielded all ideas of visiting Woodlawn for the present. Fold- ing his arms, he stood upon the deck much of'the time, giving a long, lingering look to the place at which he had once landed, when lIve and hope united to make his heart as light and happy as it was gloomy then. But the boat soon bore him off, until the spot, which for a time rested like a speck of white light upon the river bank, was lost in the intervening distance. Still his eyes  42    -   ETHEL SOMERS; OR, were turned toward the state of her birth, asif to lo. calize the place of her home. A  soft serenity per- vaded, the sky, which spread over its azure canopy. Here and there floated a light, thin cloud, which glit- tered with rosy hues, and sparkling lusters, like sun- beams playing on falling waters-fit emblems, thought he, of the purity and beauty of the southern maiden. At length he turned: away to join his friends below. He' found Percival engaged in earnest conversation with a gentleman whom he had not seen before., They were conversing on political topics. Feeling indispos. ed to engage in a discussion, or even to listen to one, he seated himself by the centertable of the cabin, and threw his eyes over the columns of a newspaper. He found it impossible to read, his attention having been in spite of himself, attracted to this new gentleman, who  expressed his views with deep earnestness of manner, and a singular force of thought. It You are disposed, then, to submit," said the stranger to Percival. '( For what would you longer wait?"  "I hope," said Percival, " that the good sense of the North will yet triumph over the delusions with which the Abolition- ists, domestic and foreign, have bewitched and poi- soned the minds of the great mass of the people of the North."--"'Your 'hope   is vain,' said the stranger. "We, of the South, have ,entertained that hope for more than thirty years. We  have yielded to compro- mises, time  after time, uttil the southern states, from having been geographically immensely- larger than the North, can now count, as her. future strength, upon fourteen states, compared with more than fifty states, which will, in half a century, put the government com- pletely in the hands of our northern foes, and give them strength to crush us. Northern cunning  and   THE FATE OF THE UNION;      843 southern love of the Union, like vice in the shape of a serpent, comes into the Eden bowers of the South, ^ with bewitching eye and honeyed speech, to lure us to ruin. My face burns with shame when I think how many wrongs have already been inflicted upon us with impunity. The tame submission of any people to wrong, invites to further aggression, and history shows that the latter will never cease while the former continues. Hlays are often dangerous. Fabius saved Bome by delay, but Rome was true to herself. One half of her people were not seeking the ruin of the Jother half. The South will lose everything by delay. She should be preparing now for her future safety. We want action. Southern indignation, without ac- tion, is; like the bolt of heaven which shoots to the earth and dies. It must tell upon the enemy.' My plan is to remove masks-to strip designs of their co- vering. I have done so. Do the -same yourself, and you will see that the North, like a moral boa, is grad- ually coiling around us, and only waits for sufficient power to begin the deadly contraction of its folds. If our people could see the danger as it is, they would tremble at the prospect, and arouse as one man to avert it." "I see the danger which threatens us," saidc Percival; "but I trust that there are someo:reasohs i hope that it may be averted without the evils of sep- aration. It is a consolation at present, that -the great ship of state is well manned, with a good pilot on board, and all sails set for state sovereignty and equal J rights. That pilot is-a northern man-a national man. . Let us, therefore, stand by him and the country. It would be cruel to desert him in the hour of -hope. Let us not despair yet. The ship slides down upon the waves and rises to the billowy top.  With such a   - 3it4     r'1'UIM- SOMERS; OR, pilot hailing from the North, let us yet hope it may outride the storm." "But for the fact to which you allude, and the gal- lant patriotism of a kindred few at the North," said the stranger, "I would-willingly see the ship of this Union sunk beneath the waves of dissolution. How willingly-would I abandon all my ideas of separation, could I hope that pilot's noble efforts, and those of his 'followers would prove availing. But Ilare not hope. It is painful to become the victim of mockeryand de lusion. But, Percival, you alluded to the evils of dis- solution. What evils could you apprehend?"  "Im- mediate war, replied Percival, "with all its horrors. That would be sufficient, without my naming any other." "Timid politicians, Percival, have flashed tho alignant fires of war in the eyes of bur people, and filled their earswith the blasts of the bugle or the groans of the dying, to avoid anticipated dangers, or accom.- plish the purposes of their ambition. Knowing you as I do, I cannot place you in that category. Many honestly believe that war would follow dissolution. Should it come, let it come. But I do not believe a word of it. Out of this Union, the North would re- quiie annually, thirty millions of dollars to meet 'the expenses of her separate government. Nowshepays less than ten millions to support the government of the Union. How would she obtain, in the first place, the means of nationalexistence, to say nothing of the sinews of war?  Her productions for export are less than fifty millions of dollars. - Her imports would lessen at least one half; hence, she could not raise them fr6m duties. Direct taxation, with the existing heavy ebts of her states, would produce a revolution among her own people. She could not tax the cotton, so w    THE FATE OF THE UNION.      845 necessary for her factories. Indeed, her manufacturing establishments would be broken down by English com- petition and the loss of the southern market for her fabrics.. . The North would find it difficult to feed her people. Many of the poorer classes would become like the peasants of Europe. The North is dependent on the South for cotton, rice, tobacco and other important staples; the South is dependent on the, North for noth- ing. We produce more corn and other grains than the North, in proportion to our population. If-she raises more than we do, her hungry population will need it all. The South, out of the Union, would have annu- ally, two hundred millions of -exports, and would find no difficulty, with moderate duties, in raising an abun- dant revenue. Northern ship-owners have received in freights alone upon southern productions, nearly fifty millions of dollars. The North has had the use annu- ally, upon an average, since the government was estab- lished, of sixty-three millions of dollars which flowed from southern produce. The sum which she thus has the use of, has reached the enormous amount of one  hundred millions of dollars. The ,South has paid in taxes to the government, three hundred and forty mil- lions of dollars more than the North. Georgia and Virginia yielded in public lands seventy millions of dollars, exclusive of all benefit received from them by the southern states. Three fourths of all the immense disbursements of the government have been made in the non-slaveholding states. "These and many other facts which I will not fa- tigue you by mentioning, will account for the prosper- ity of those states as members of this confederacy. The institution of slavery has enabled the South to bear all this, and the North has been crowned with prosperity 15   ' ...    ETHEL S OERS; OR, by their labor and their connection with the South.  Free the South from this incumbrance-free her from -the annual burden of twenty-five or thirty millions of dollars paid to the government, while the North pays less than ten,land then estimate the loss to the North and the gain to the South. The North has but few whiJ we have all the essential elements of ational wealth, complete within our own limits. The North is not only weak in her productions, but se is essentially so in her geographical position in a military point of view  All' the products of the upper Mississippi have their natural outlet in the SouthernStates. Thisgives the south great commercial advantages and invincible military strength. The commerce of the north-western free states will find no impediments from ice and snow  they can be carried more speedily and cheaply to mar- ket, than by railroads, and northern lakes and canals. The mouth of the Chesapeake belongs to the South and has an advantage over any position in the North. New Orleans, what an immense city she would soon become. Thevalley of the Mississippe, with more than a million of square miles of territory will produce tWo hundred millions for commerce, and, although much' of it lies in the free states, nearly all of its immense productions must find their outlet through southern -rivers and southern railroads. The Gulf of Mexico, which is destined to be the summit level of the world's commerce,- would belong to the South.  The North would then feel the scourge of the war betweenapital -  %nd labor. How long could she fight us under. these Circumstances, owing, as she does, one hundred millions ,f dollars, and deprived of all the resources heretofore lerived from  her connection with the South? The   British could assail her from Canada, all along the St. Lawrence and the lakes. We would be in possession of all the great rivers and powerful positions of the South. Let Switzerland, surrounded by powerful dy- nasties, Norway, with her tenth part of the pppulation of the South, Greece, re-arisen from the ashes of her long buried greatness-let our own America, who tri- umphed over Britain's mighty power-stand as exam- ples of what a free, brave and chivalrous people can do in defence of their honor and rights. Holding in our hands the commercial levers of the world, ten mil- lions strong, with nearly a million of square miles of territory, shall we fear a northern invasion? We could scorn the threat. But we must not wait until the ene- my shall have trebled us in population, and surrounded us with a cordon of free states, fired with bigotry, and led on by a thirst for plunder." During this conversation, which lasted for some time, Penland, who was present, slyly watched the counte- nance of Clinton. He soon saw that he only seemed to read, and was, in reality, absorbed in what was pass- ing. He, like Percival, was not an immediate separa- tionist, but he was secretly pleased at all that Judge Mortimer had said, because he wanted Clinton to be impressed with the fact that, while the southern people were ardently devoted to the Union, they were prepared to calculate its value. H- e wanted him to see, too, what is the fact-that it is far more valuable to the pebpleof a the North than the South. The conversation having terminated, Clinton arose, and beckoning to Penland, stepped aside and asked, "Who is th'at dignifiedO old gentleman who has been firing away, without mercy, at my section?" He, sir," replied Penland, "is Judge Mortimer, the father of William Mortimer."  "The   ETHE'iaL SOMERS; OR, deuce you say " observed Clinton. "I thought his features not unlike some one whom I had seen, and for that reason, as well as the peculiar nature of his con-  versation and his emphatic looks and forcible views, I was desirous f knowing who he is." "Well," said Penland, " since you have found out, I presume you would like to know him better.  Let me introduce you to him."- Clinton having expressed the pleasure it would afford him, he and Judge Mortimer were for- mally presented to each other. * "I am happy to see you in our section," observed Judge Mortimer. "Your name is already familiar to me. I have often heard my son speak of you in terms of the highest and most friendly regard. He will be happy-to see you when you shall reach the city, and I assure you it will afford me great pleasure to have- your company as much as possible at my  residence uring your stay in NewOrleans. I thinkthis is your iecond visit to the South." ' Yes, sir," replied Clin-  Pon; my first, however, was of very short duration  nd only extended to the residence of Colonel Somers a  Mississippi."  "So I learned; and you could not iave visited a more truly noble and warm-hearted man Lan he is. Colonel Somers is an old friend of mine. have frequently met with him in New Orleans. He assed through that city some three weeks since, on is wayto Cuba." "Ah l' inquired Clinton, anxiobsly. What took him there?"  He went, accompanied. rhis fe, his daughter, -and a young northern lady ho has been staying with them. The trip is made- lely on account of the young lady, whose health has en quite delicate. They fear she is consumptive." You heard her name?" "Yes, sir-I saw her and Drest, Her name is Mary  aymond, She is a      y?ay m She is a   beautiful creature, and I have learned is a paragon of virtue, goodness, and mental accomplishments. I took a deep interest in her from my brief acquaintance, and sincerely hope that she may find a perfect restoration to her former health in the delightful climate of Cuba. My son accompaned them to Havana, where he left them. -'It is uncertain when-they will return." Clinton could but feel depressed- by this informa- tion, for he felt assured by -it that Mary Raymond's condition was more critical than'he had previously imagined, and he was also pained at the thought that unless he should make a trip to Cuba, he might be compelled to return home without seeing either her or Ethel Somers. In all other respects his situation was as pleasant as it could be, surrounded as he was by kind friends, who exerted themselves in every way to add to the attractiveness and pleasure- of his trip. CHAPTER      XXXVII. THE reader will suppose him to have arrived at New Orleans. Noone could have welcomed him to that city with more cordial warmth and friendship than William Mortimer. During his stay there, the latter and Percival were constantly with him. They took him to all the places of attraction, both in the city and the neighborhood, and for a week or two he had but little opportunity to indulge in gloomy r-meditations. They and Penland used every suitable occasion to ex- hibit southern society in its true colors; one feature of which, in that beautiful city, was the kindness of the     .:   3850      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, whites to their slaves, and the universal attachment of the latter to their :owners. He was peculiarly struck with the happy looks, the neat dresses, and comfortable condition of the blacks. This was the first opportunity which had beeni extensively afforded him to see slavery as it really is in a large southern city. The blacks were not on an equality with the whites, it was true; but they were not so in the northern cities where they were called freemen. He saw the difference between the slaves of the city of New Orleans and the free ne- groes of the North. The former, happy, contented, always cheerful, -never feeling the pressure of want, treated, universally with kindness; the latter, misera- ble, abject, destitute not only of comfort, but even of the necessaries of life, and kicked and cuffed at every turn in society. Clinton began to reason for himself; to look at society as it was, as it always had been, and always would be. He saw that he might as well look for the philosopher's stone, as perfect equality and lib- erty in any society.- The land where they exist is a terra incognita. Such ideas are the gleamings of vis- ionarybrains, which possess more theory than sense, more moral humbuggery than practical wisdom. Clin- ton saw that all could not be rich or great; all could not aspire to the chief honors of earth; that some must rule, some legislate, some teach, some ditch and plow and hoe, some black shoes and boots, hew wood, draw water and cook; in short, that some must occupy posi- tions lower than others; that one class must serve another class. Necessity had put its foot upon the earth, and decreed that it should-be so. It began to seem reasonable to him, that an inferior should serve a superior race--that the black man and not the white Should serve-his fellow-man. Deeply did he meditate   THE FATE OF THE UNION.    -  351 upon the subject. History showed him that slavery had existed from the time beyond which the memory- of man could not reach. It was recognized in the birthright of the Brahmin,- who was supposed to be born a ruler, a king, and priest, with absolute suprem- acy over his people. It was shown to have existed in the great Assyrian empire by the few fragments which exist of its history, and the inscriptions upon the last vestiges of her crumbling monuments; in Babylon, in Persia, and Phoenicia; in all, the northern nations of Europe in. the early ages of the Christian world, and in all subsequent nations and times. He read that even in the time of the Great Alfred of England, pa- rents, his English -subjects, sold their children into slavery; that the institution existed throughout Eu- rope until the fourteenth century, and when it was at last abolished, it continued to exist in feudal vassalage and modern serfdom. In these nations and ages, in Greece and Rome, the white man served the noble, the rich, the powerful of is own color. Framed like him in mind and body, as white, and often more worthy, he still went as he ordered, and came at his bidding. He could not remain blind to the fact that English, French, and German society, indeed, that all Europe, is now full of discontent and turbulent with social evils-that the people there are kept down by military -power-  that capital there, as in all free societies, subjects the poor to the greatest possible amount of work for the lowest wages-that it has the ability, and selfishness prompts it to oppress the poor-that this has produced an antagonism between the poor and the rich-that philanthropists in Europe, her best and ablest writers, the lovers of good order and their race, are hinting that society can only be relieved, revolutions prevent-   352      -E'zEL: SOMERS; OR, ed, by a return to feudalism and vassalage, which is another name for slavery. The truth is, northern society is rapidly approximating that of Europe. Slavery will be the remedy in Europe; it will be the only remedy for the evils of society in the soi-disant free states of the American Union. The South, in- stead of giving 9p its civilization, should preach it to the people of the North. We should become the prop- agandists of slavery for their good, the prosperity of the world, and the happiness of the slaves. How im- mensely it would add to the wealth of the world and the well being of the inhabitants of Africa, were a sufficient number of the white races quartered on that gloomy continent, to control its immense physical strength, in raising those productions which nature has adapted to its varied soils. What grand results would followl. What immense regions would be opened for commerce and te arts of civilization I Her gloomy for- ests and unciltuied plains would smile with beauty, Cities, villageW and hamlets, would raise their proud col. umns and spread out their smiling triumphs to make old Africa take her stand among the continents, as we speak of states taking their positions among the inhabi- tants of the earth. The North, the South, all Europe would feel the benefits of the change; and, looking to Africa (how glorious it would be!) could hail her arts her public spirit, her rival charms, her new-bornm greatness and glory. But to return to Clinton. While meditating upon these deeply. interesting matters, he was joined by Mortimer, who observed: "I learn from Penland, Clinton, that you and he have concluded to take a trip to. Mobile, whence you intend to pass through Alabama, Georgia, the Caro- linas, and other portions of our southern country on   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      353 your return to New ,York.'" That," replied Clinton, "is the route we have concluded to take, and we leave to-morrow. Penland is called back sooner than he an- ticipated, by letters from Louisville. He promises me, however, that he will accompany me to the South at another time. I have been so much pleased with what I have seen of your section and people, that I shall steal the time to come and see you soon again." I am glad, Clinton, to hear you speak thus. We will open our hearts to you whenever you can come. - The association of -northern and southern people is calcu- lated to disarm prejudice, and -bind them in bonds of faith and friendship stronger than parchment Consti- tutions. We almost claim you, not as a-pro-slavery man, but as an American citizen with a national heart, who will not ask of his southern brethren to become the degenerate sons off noble sires-' bastards of their blood.' .The more you may travel in the southern states, the more you will be convinced that the horrid charges made against the slaveholders of the South, are false. You have been told that we are troubled here with constant fears of massacre. You see that 'the statement is without the least foundation in fact. Our patrols in the country, three or four in number, often for weeks at a time, do not pass over the ten or fifteen miles appropriated to their inspection. You were told that our slaves were miserable; you see they are con- tented and happy. The wrongs of the slaves exist mainly in the troubled imaginations of sickly philan- thropists, who are startled by the foolish bubbles of their own fancies. The sanctified sophistries, and de- lirious sentimentalities of your people would do to laugh-at, were the malady not so universal and the danger to the country so real." The English weep over   E54.      R'MtL SOMEERS; OR, the wrongs of the slav#s, and butcher the negroes of Southern Africa without mercy, to rob them of their country. They denounce us for cruelty and Op- pression while depopulating the Indies with the sword for purposes of conquest. They send their em. issaries to inflame your people against us for tyranny to the blacks, while she makes her peasants and other poor slaves in every thing but the name. France is equally guilty in her treatment of the Algerines, and the depression of her poor at home. I would be re- spectful to you, Clinton, and will not, therefore charge the North with willful fraud, falsehood, and corrup. tion; but she is blinded by a most dreadful, dangerous, and  almost diabolical prejudice. The abolitionists  speak of us as pirates, robbers, men-stealers, anid thieves. As we of the South are not stained with the barbarism and blood of English violence, so we are exempt from the brutality of northern superstition and crime.  We have dragged no patriots to the scaffold and friendless old women to the bloody doom of witch- craft. The acts of our English ancestors and northern brethren should forever seal their lips about negro slavery in the South.  Besides, if there be ar wrong in slavery, they must bear the guilt; for they brought them in their ships as their property, and sold them to our people, north and south. Admit slavery to be an evil, how can it be removed? Can the people of the North ask of us to yield two thousand millions of property for a  doubtful good-no, not for a doubtful good, but for a certain, incalculable harm to masters and slaves?  What would the negroes do if emanci. pated, without land, without property, without the means of-subsistence? Would you ask us to admit them to social equality, when your people will not do   THE FATE OF THE UNION. '35  it, and even, in some, states, drive them beyond their borders? The negroes and the whites cannot live together as equals. Competition with whites is gradu- ally destroying the free negroes of the North. One or the other would rule. Can you doubt which? Our negroes must remain slaves, or become exterminated. Would you disturb their repose to effect their extinc- tion? Is that the good the North desires with all the attendant horrors of massacre, violence, incendiarism, and crime? Think of the madness of abolitionism, and you will shrink from its blood-stained purposes. "The advocates in Europe of the old monarchical systems of rule, have often abused and vilified our sys- tems of republican government. They say that they are remarkably seedy, and produce weeds of a singular and unnatural growth. When we look at the causes which afford them pretexts for their assaults upon our political and social structures, where do we find them to exist? Certainly not at the South. We have-no women lecturers, no women's-rights conventions here. This usurpation of pantaloons in this country is con- fined to the free states. Their existence anywhere is to be deplored, for women were made to reign in pri- vate; and every departure from the modesty of this rule weakens the purity and -sanctity of her power, and of course the bands of virtue, decency, and the good order of society. Nature made them women, and condemned them to petticoats; yet they would grace senate-chambers, the bench, the pulpit, and -the hust- ings, with their night-caps. No; woman's smile should light the home of affection. Her pure heart should be a private altar of heaven; her modest love, the safe- guard and charm of life. Nothing is more admirable in the character of woman than that mrimosa-like sen-   856      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, sitiveness which makesher shrink from the exhibition of masculine traits and strength. Woman is to be admired in the winning gracefulness of her manners, the generous disinterestedness of her feelings, the tender devotedness of her love. These constitute the perfec- tion of female excellence. I might refer to the free- love societies, the socialism, and other 'isms' of the North, but I forbear. They have no abiding place in the South.' It would be unjust to Clinton, not to state that, while he regretted the existence of these social evils at the North, he maintained the character of his section for the possession of many noble virtues. That Mortimer did not deny; indeed, they were the subjects of his encomiums and admiration. Taking leave of their warm-hearted friends in New Orleans, Clinton and Penland sailed on the following day for Mobile. We need not fatigue the reader with what they saw on the route indicated above. Slavery everywhere on the plantations which they  occasionally visited-in the cities of Mobile, Montgomery, Columbus, Macon, Augusta; Savannah, and   Charleston-presented  to Clinton's observation the same ameliorating features in which he had previously seen it in Arkansas, Missis- sippi, and Louisiana. The last remnant of a doubt as to the happy condition of the slaves was removed from his mind, Prejudice had gradually relaxed its hold upon it, as one by one the sources of its existence had been shown to be illusive only. With the removal of prejudice, his heart was opened to a generous tolera- tion of the opinions of his southern fellow citizens. He thought for himself, and compared society in the South with that at the North. He felt the conviction that he had seen more poor children range the streets of New York city alone, gleaning bones, garbage, and   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      857 rags (many of whom, boys and girls, resorted to theft when begging and work failed them), than could be found in all the southern states put together. When he thought of their condition, it seemed to'him that the field at home was ample for. the exercise of north- ern philanthropy, without intrusion into the houses of the South. It seemed to him that the good old saying, "Charity begins at home," was not sufficiently recog- nized, when he recollected the miserable fates Df so many poor outcasts in northern cities who were desti- tute of homes and friends. He had seen them, in the depths of winter, suffering bitterly the want of shoes, clothing, and food. God feeds the ravens, and clothes the lilies of the field; but who cared for them? Slavery had, upon personal inspection, made to him no such developments as these. He saw no sick child in the South dying in some loathsome garret, or damp filthy cellar, for want of sustenance; and that, too, when at a little distance off, in stately mansions of architectural beauty and internal splendor, children, whose skins were less fair, perhaps, clothed like little fairies of paradise in silken tracery covered with lace, lay sleep- ing in the soft repose of wealth. He had seen no slave- child at the South, walking barefoot, ragged, and shivering, along an icy pavement, as he had seen of the white at the North, begging the passer-by for a morsel of bread for his sick mother at home. The ways of Deity are past finding out. The poor should strive for the means of subsistence, and live submissive to the dispensations of Providence. It is a sin to mur- mur, but woe to the rich who will withhold the chari- ties which would save the poor from destitution and want. Philosophy teaches that the world would not be perfect without its poor; and religion, that it would .   358      RETUEL SOMERS; OR, be cursed, but for the good, wh6 dispense their bless ings like the gentle dews of heaven. Let the rich remember that their wealth cannot go with them into the midnight chamber of the grave; that charity is a: flower of perpetual bloom, and warms alike the heart of him who gives and him who receives. Clinton saw that the South was not agitated by the war which exists in free society between capital and labor. The two were united in the person of the slave, between whom and his master were daily practiced the reci- procities of kindly sympathy. Hence, slavery seemed  to him to form the basis of a civilization free from the contests between the rich and the poor, such as exist in free society, where the first strive to get the most work for the least money, and the latter the most money for theleast work, and which sooner or later'ends in the vas- salage of the latter, or -revolution. It is the safe-guard of society in the South, affording a working-class who are not degraded by the performance of menial ser- vices, and inspiring the whites with a spirit of manly independence, which will insure the maintenance of ourtrepublican institutions, and the perpetuation of their inestimable blessings. Clinton's views had under- gone a thorough change. The reader will not attribute it to interested motives. Love had wreathed its ten- drils closely around his heart, until he felt that nothing less powerful than death could unloose them; and yet, for opinion' s sake, he had yielded the divinity which had placed them-there. Nol the light of truth had illumined his judgement. He had reasoned from anal- ogy, the scale of beings, and the fitness of things. His new faith was: not founded in the dogmas of a cold- blooded tyranny, nor did it originate in: the empty illusions olfancy. L He had demanded proofs, and ob- iN   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      359 tained them. Thus happily situated, seeing no longer any cause for estrangement from the charming Ethel, it is not surprising that, as the clouds of difficulty were dispersed, his heart should be thrilled with' all the emotions of its first love, and completely bound up in the spell of young love's dream again. He thought of Ethel far across the troubled deep, and longed once more to look into her tender and enchanting eyes. So powerful were the impulses of his new devotion, that he pondered, for many sleepless hours during the night, whether to return home, or sail, by the first opportu- nity, for Havana. At last he fell asleep. His mind wandered in troubled and gloomy dreams. At one time, a pale figure seemed standing by his bedside. Awakened by the hammer of the clock, as it struck in solemn tones the hour of two, he was pleased to find that it. was only a dream. He thought of Mary Ray- mond. Perhaps her good and gentle spirit had passed from earth to heaven.  Perhaps-oh, perhaps! he thought again it was the spirit of Ethel. After a time of wakeful agitation, in which his mind was disturbed with doubts and fears, sleep came again to the assist- ance of wearied nature. The same pale visitant stood for a moment by him. Its raiment was spotless white, and over it was thrown a vail, which touched the floor. 'It slowly moved, and suddenly disappeared. He imagined. that he arose and looked from the window. The moon's pale face seemed stained with blood; the stars were dim, and meteors shot quick and fiercely athwart the sky. Awakened-by the excess of his emotion, he walked to the window, to assure himself that it was all a sleepy illusion; and so he found it. The stars were shining in their quiet homes, and the moon was going her queenly round, unmaarl- save   .      '      / a   860      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, by a thin- white cloud, which, like a bridal vail, fell over her pensive face. Thus passed the night. Clin- ton arose with the sun, and resolved to suggest to Penland his thought of visiting Cuba. His hesitation was totally removed by meeting, shortly after, a young New Yorker, with whom he had a slight acquaintance, who, having traveled south for the benefit of his health, was to leave that very day for Havana. Clinton made known his 'determination to Penland, who, so far from attempting to dissuade him from his purpose, advised him to go. "I will hasten on to New York," said he, "to see my love, and you can go to see yours. You are ready for it now.' The fates are propitious. The South has gained a friend, and, I doubt not, will give you a wife." All things arranged, these friends exchanged the warm parting grasp, and sped their way, in opposite directions over the deep blue waters of the Atlantic. CHAPTER XXXVIII. OUR. story is rapidly drawing to a close, and the reader will excuse us if, in the plenitude of our engage- ments, we shall omit whatever is immaterial to an ex- hibition of its denouement. We leave Clinton to pursue his trip over waters which seemed to sparkle with the light of love, as well the rays of the sun by day, and the more quiet and placid light of the moon and stars by night. We-use this convenient opportunity to offer a few; partingwords tothe, kind and gentle reader who has   ;aTHE FATS OfP THE IIN  / U  followed us through these pages, and will soon follow the story to its end. An unbelieving friend, sitting at our elbow, says to us, "Your hope and your work will prove vain alike. As soon could you arrest the sunbeams in a cloudless sky, as stay the fanaticism of the North, which is sweeping like a besom of ruin- over our once happy Union."  While there is life there is hope. While the Union still exists, the patriot may-not totally despair, and we throw our mite into the scale, though it may press only with the weight of a feather drawn from our Eagle's breast. If we cannot stay a single missile of northern madness, we can urge the people of the south to shut their eyes and ears to every pro- position of dishonor. Right is of divine origin, and therefore indestructible and eternal. The South be. holds with commingled dread and sorrow the unholy effort of the, North to drag her at the footstool of her power, to strip her of her rights, and make her a bloody sacrifice upon the altar of that Union, which our fathers reared for the common good. It is enough to raise an JEta in every tiue southern breast to con- template the prospect which abolitionism sets before us. What is the picture which it represents in the final consummation of its purposes? The North, once our loving sister, false to her faith, her honor, her af- fection, stands before us a horrid monster, holding the South in her bloody jaws, and all for a Utopian liberty, which God never granted to any people on earth, and which is a moral and social impossibility. We depend upon the guarantees of the Constitution- they are worth no more than the parchment upon which they are written. We look to-the North to stand by us against foreign enemies--upon thewhole earth we can find no enemy so deadly as hersf. Such 16   '362      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, is the picture which northern fanaticism presents of our political future. The South must vindicate her rights, and rebuke, even with blood, if necessary, the foes who would willfully trample upon them.  This she must do-her escutcheon she must preserve unstained, her homes and altars unpolluted, or submit to the eternal brand of infamy. Justice must be dispensed; rs - the honor and rights of the South must be preserved untarnished. She loves the Union, but they are dearer still. Let them be finally assailed, and who can stay 'the tempest? who ride upon the storm, and quell its rage, when the Union shall reel to and fro like a drunken man? when the great temple of American liberty (oh, temple, how beloved ) ,shall crack and totter to its deep foundations? Who then can dispel the gloom of outer darkness which will cover the land, ensanguined, it may be, with the blood of political kindred? There stands the same glorious and magni- ficent temple erected by our fathers for the political worship of our people, but, alas I some of its votaries from the South are forced to behold it not as in other and purer days of the Republic. They go with in- cense, trusting that it may ascend in- ethereal and exquisite fragrance as in other days, but are repelled from its polluted altar by the priestess of "Inequality," who waves her hand and points to another and an in-.  ferior altar, as more suited for the polluted offerings of "dealbrsinhumanflesh!"Thus are they repelledfrom the sacred sanctuary once open to the free and equal worship of every American citizen. The Union should dispense its favors like the sun. The latter pours out his beams, not for his own glory, but to warm and cherish the earth; not to garland his own head with splendt -but to cover the earth with beauty; not to , .  .   !  THE FATE OF THE UNION.       863 fill his, butl the granaries of man with harvests; not to dazzle and destroy, but to charm and bless. So the Union should exist, that its constellated rays may warm and cherish, protect and bless its integrality, and the individual sovereignties which compose it. The patriot must sQe his whole country at once. The North and South, the East and West must be painted in miniature upon his eye. Like the eagle's, it should look with telescopic glance, see all its parts and all its wants, to uphold, cherish, and supply them; not by the rule of might, but equal and exact justice, guided always by the strict letter of the Constitution. Each state, in a confederacy like ours, is entitled to all the rights and privileges granted by a common constitu- tion, or reserved as a part of its inalienable sovereignty. If its institutions and customs do not violate the cove. I   nant of union, no one has a right to profane or disturb them. The people of one state may not approve the institutions of another, but they have no right to assail, to overthrow, or destroy them. They have no right to seek to blacken their characters in the estima- tion of the other states, or the world. When they do thus, they wound the Constitution, disregard the compact of union, outrage the very life-blood of state sovereignty, and excite the direst elements of civil dis- cord. The vitality of a union like ours is a perfect equality of rights. A sister sees with a new vision, and demands that another sister shall see as she does,' or become a victim. That is the extreme of insult. It inflames, excites and maddens.  Such  intolerance becomes insupportable.  When will our brethren of the North learn that kindness, tolerance, even of errors, which concern not themselves, which in no way dis- turb their rights, is the best way to unite all sections   864       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, of the country, and make it peaceful and happy at home, powerful and respected abroad. In asking to be let alone, we demand only simple justice, and our inalienable right. The dragon of abolitionism must loosen its folds, or we must seek safety in separation. The South cannot, will not, fold its arms in passive discontent. It would, in that case, become servile, false to its honor, false to its rights, false to true liberty. It would then become the scoff of the world. -Who has constituted the people of the northern states the 'keepers of the consciences of their southern brethren? Whence have they derived the authority to demand of the latter to think as they do, at the peril of their peace and safety? In an infinitesimal space of time, America has arisen to be the beacon light of the world. Tyrants in every land shudder at the peaceful splendor which, until recently, has shone with undiminished luster from our national empyrean. They still tremble atthe flutter of our stars and stripes, which stream like meteors in every wind, and over all the waters of the earth. America-by that we mean our whole land, not the North, the South, the East or the West, but all sections over which those stars and stripes wave in triumphant dominion-seemed once to us as if it were a region- chosen by Heaven as a home for as much liberty, and law', and happiness as mortal man can en- joy on earth. It looked like a part of paradise itself, raised up between the great waters, clothed in isolated sublimity, beauty and fertility, to be a new and unex- ampled political Israel. It forms a segment in the great circle of national existence, unique, unexempli- fied in history, where the goddess of liberty has erected a temple consecrated to her worship. She touched the hearts of our incestorswith some magic wand, and  I    -      '   THE FATE OF THE UNION. '865 kindled in them the Promethean fires of freedom. Oh, people of America, especially of the non-slaveholding states, go to that sacred temple and listen to the gentle ministerings of the spirits of our fathers I Be taught by their example, follow their precepts, and learn to be content with our institutions as established by them. Walk amidst their tombs, that your sensibilities may be freshened and quickened in respect and love for each other. Who can stand by the grave of Washington- that Mecca of the Union-and not sorrow that his name and memory are less potential than they were to draw together the hearts of his children. Claimed and mourned as he was by the North and the South-- would that the, memory of hts virtues, his patriotism, and his justice could bind the hearts of our people in spells of an enduring affection, founded upon the basis of equal rights to every section of the Union. Wash- ington sleeps in his tomb. He was enshrined in the hearts of his countrymen when living-would that he might be so enshrined in the hearts of his children as to unite them in perpetual peace and love. No sor- row, no reverence, no affection, no invocation of indi- viduals or states, can re-awaken the once living spirit of our country's father. But the memory of the god- like patriot ought to make our people pause in depart- ing from his counsels, and profaning the temple conse- crated to American equality and freedom. It will re- quire ages to develop fully the harmony and grandeur of his character. How sad the thought that when he shall be-seen in the colossal stature of his true greatness in the future-when the world shall look upon his shadowy sublimity and crown him the greatest of men, that his glory shall belong to the world, and not to the land which claimed him as its father-that int the towers   366       ETHfEL SOMERS; ORj ing sublimity of his character, we, in this once happy Union, shall behold him, not from the battlements of a common national temple, but those of separate, alienated, perhaps belligerent, states. It is a burning shame that we, as a people, should illustrate the asser- tions of naturalists in reference to the bee and spi- der. Some go to the flower of our political equality and rights to gather honey, others to distil the most deadly poison. For whose good will it have been that our ancestors mingled their hearts, their eloquence, their efforts and blood, if we, their descendants, shall be torn with discord, and our fair land drenched with fraternal blood? Ambitious and dangerous men have trampled upon human rights and happiness in every age of the world, and often in the very name of liberty itself. This they were the better enabled to do in the absence of written constitutions. Such men deserved the execrations of their race; but he, who would violate the plainly written law, who would disregard the rights guaranteed by the plain and express agreement of parties to a political compact, is unfit to be trusted in the social or political relations of life. He is a good citizen who, while claiming his rights, admits fully the rights of others;, who is tolerant to the sentiments of his fellow citizens, which are not subversive of the safety of his country and the happiness of the people; who esteems his neighbor none the less because he differs 'with him in political principles or religious tenets. The problem of American destiny has already become the problem of the world. Time lies silent upon-the bosom of the future. It is happy for us that we can point in our republican land to no regalia, no golden crowns studded with diamonds, no purple vel- vet caps, enclosed with hoops of silver, and decorated   THE FATE OF THE UNION.       367  with costly gems and pearls; no royal scepters, with their golden crosses and precious stones; no glittering swords of justice, ecclesiastical and temporal; no coro. nation bracelets, ampulias and royal spurs. It is happy for us that they are not seen to glitter in our national capital, for they are the symbols of power and pros- perity for the few, poverty and degradation for the many. Let patriotic men, versed in cabinets and laws, in constitutional lore and policies of states, now look well to the public weal; let patriotic men in every section, who have an interest in the public welfare, see to it that factionists, and demagogues, and fanaticism, shall not tear down the fabric of liberty, reared by our fathers, and cemented by their blood. Thus may tne problem be solved for freedom, and tyranny, -with its glittering symbols, be for ever inhibited "In the land of the-free, and the home of the brave." CHAPTER     XXXIX. DAYS and nights have passed, and the stately and gilded vessel which bore Clinton upon a mission of love, nears the Queen of the Antilles. Mountains raise their blue, misty tops in skies serene, and bright, and soft as meets the eye upon the shores of-classic Italy or Greece. But our theme is not sky, or sea, or earth. It is the heart, with its fountains of tender and myste- rious sympathies. The light of Cuba's shores, though spreading over stream, and hill, and vale, glowing be- neath a tropical sun, whose genial warmth gives peren-   868      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, nial verdure to a land of unequaled fertility and beauty, however charming to the sense, was not like the light of Ethel's eye, or that of the dreamy, happy hopes which illumined the heart of Clinton. It waspleasing to behold the lofty spires of her mountains, painted by sun-illumined clouds, but their beauty was dim and fleeting, compared with rosy blushes of the angel beauty who was then, perhaps, enjoying an afternoon's siesta, and might be, and fondly he hoped was, dream- ing of him. But we pass the barriers of distance. The tall spires of Havana, with its amphitheater of hills in the rear, have disappeared. The stars are peeping out, and the lofty cresset light of the Castle of Moro, and innumerable lesser lights from palaces, and man- sions, and batteries, are streaming over'the bay as the gallant-ship nears the place of its mooring. Clinton was informed on the following day, that Colonel Somers and his party were ruralizing upon the beautiful estate of a friend, situated upon the sea shore, some ten miles from the city of Havana. That little distance was soon annihilated, and a cordial wel- come greeted him upon his arrival. Ethel met him with a cheerful smile and a bearing gracefully composed, While his own heart fluttered like the leaf of an aspen, not a feature of her beautiful face betrayed an emotion beyond the kindly beam of friendship. Her eye still possessed its witching brilliancy, but he could see in it nothing like the light of love. He saw the same being whose charms had intoxicated his soul, but a mysteri- ous sentiment quickly pervaded his mind, that her heart was no longer his. She was arrayed in all her lovely reality, but her presence was like that of a beautiful statue. The sympathy, the soul, the love-light of the   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      369 past, were gone. He remembered his dream. The pale visitor could not have represented Mary Raymond, for though extremely weak, her friends still hoped that time and a salubrious climate would restore her to health. A momentary despair settled upon his heart as he imagined it to have been a sleeping revelation of Ethel's change of feeling. He remembered that it stood vailed, in silence, before him, and vanished withy- out uttering a word. Clinton had visited Cuba for love. Friendship, though a sweetener of life, was to him now, the empty -delusion of a dream. Still he rallied as he remembered his affair with Miss Eustace, and imagined, upon a second thought, that Ethel's bearing was the result of his own conduct, and that a suitable eclaircissement would revive the tender memo- ries of the past. Clinton's heart melted with grief as he beheld the wasting form of his fair friend, Mary Raymond. The change in her appearance (for he had not seen her since she left New York) excited his deepest fears that her days on earth were numbered. Yet she was cheerful, and seemed even to be happy. He was impressed with the tenderness of her looks and manners towards him. She treated himr as if she were his sister, and would soon have to leave him. Her voice was soft as the gentlest melody of the lute when she addressed him, and in her large black eyes, so languidly lustrous, he saw the holy revealings of sympathy and friendship. His heart was pained with deep regret, that one so young, so fair, so transparently beautiful, should be preyed upon by an unrelenting malady. I She talked of her home with the tenderest affection, and shed sor- rowing tears as she spoke of her mother, and inquired about the rose vines and shrubbery which she had 16'   870       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, planted beside her grave. The poor were not forgot- ten. They were inquired after, and her face moment- arily beamed with joyous smiles, as Clinton described the happiness her beneficence had conferred Uponi them. During the day, Clinton sought an opportunity of unfolding to Ethel the object of his visit. For the first time he feared to speak of love. He felt as if he had lost the power of revealing his passion in words. As he closely scrutinized Ethels features, he could dis- cover no visible symptom of a lurking tenderness on her part. She looked isolated, thoughtful and reserved. The truth is, Ethel imagined when she first beheld him, the nature of his visit. All that he could not see in her, she saw in him. Respect for Clinton and her- self demanded that she should not by look or word give encouragement to his hopes. Hence, her manner was colder than it would have been under less peculiar circumstances. He ventured to address her. "Per- haps, Miss Somers," said he, " my soul would not be chilled by your coldness, would you allow, me to tell how unceasingly I have adored you." "It is impossi- ble, Mr. Clinton," said Ethel, " that I can listen now to declarations indicated by what you have just said." "But, Miss Somers, perhaps I can -explain." "It is, due alike to you and to myself to say, that I can listen to no explanation, such as I may imagine you to desire to make." "I would explain how I may have seemed to act inconsistently, in offering my hand to another." ":I have no fault to find with you for that, Mr. Clinton." "-Then, most charming of all beings, permit me to say, that my views on the point of original difference have undergone a change, and-that need not interpose a barrier to our-" "I b6g you, Mr. Clinton, to excuse me for' interrupting you. I am happy to hear that   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      371 your views have undergone the change to which you allude. I will be frank. It is best to' be so. My esteem for you constrains me to say that my hand is plighted to another." For a moment, if his death-warrant had been read to him, Clinton could not have experienced a greater agony of spirit. Folding his arms across his breast, he gazed, as if stupefied, upon the lovely being before him. Then, suddenly recollecting himself, he arose from his seat, walked to a window, and gazed vacantly upon the picturesque scenery around the dwelling. No man was more gallant, more generous, more noble- hearted than Clinton. Having partially recovered his composure, he resumed his seat and observed, "Though what you have so generously revealed to me, Miss Somers, pierces-my heart with agony, and blights the sweetest, dearest hope of my life, I would not intrude upon the sacred relation in which you are placed to- wards another. I shall never cease to esteem you, when duty and honor compel me to cease to love you. I ask no more than to continue to be honored with your friendship." Having been assured by Ethel that she should ever be pleased to reciprocate with him the kindly sympathies of friendship, the conversation was terminated by the approach of Colonel and Mrs. Somers. After a brief conversation upon general subjects, Colonel Somers proposed that Clinton should accompany him in a ride, to look at the plantation on which he was temporarily residing. Clinton gladly acceded to it, -for he felt that an excursion of that kind would enable him to recover, in some degree, from the shock which this affections had so suddenly and unexpectedly re- ceived. The reader may well imagine that Clinton was not in a frame of mind to enjoy the charming   $7-2      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, scenery and beautiful prospects which surrounded and spread out before him on every hand. From a favor- able point he could'see a beautiful valley covered with verdure, tropical landscapes of tall and slender pines and graceful palms, and grounds appropriated to the coffee, the cocoa, the lemon, and the orange, with a variety of other trees and shrubs which yielded the delicious and fragrant fruits and spices of the Indies. Before him, as far as the eye could reach, the beautiful and placid waters of the Gulf of Mexico glittered be- neath the dancing beams of the sun, while the breeze, with a delightful fraicheur, bore from its bosom the most enlivening and healthful influences to the shore. Under more favorable circumstances, Clinton could have gazed with ecstasy upon a scene so full of variety, beauty and charms. As it was, he looked out upon the extended ocean with melancholy thoughts, and listened with a sympathizing spirit to the sad sounds of its waves. Still, he was impressed with the extreme beauty of all that he saw, and the richness of the pro- ductions of this, the most exquisitely beautiful and valuable island upon the globe. Vegetation on every hand, stimulated by the fertility of the soil, was dis- played in a vigor and strength seen nowhere so luxu- riant as in those climes of the sun. He had seen clus- ters of orange trees in a few places in the southern section of the Union, but here he saw acres appropri- ated to-'that delicious fruit. The trees were covered with their smooth green leaves, which glittered in the soft, creamy sunlight of that tropical region, while their white flowers scattered a fragrance unsurpassed by the -spicy groves of Araby. Gardens filled with flowers of the choicest hue and odor, caressed by balmy breezes, and birds 'of paradise, parrots, and other species, with   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     ' 373 their dazzling and gorgeous plumage of yellow and gold, gave additional variety and beauty to the prospect. But we will not detain the reader with descriptions of a region which nature seems to have selected for an earthly paradise. It is not wonderful that various nations have cast their covetous eyes upon this mistress of the sea, which is destined to become the summit level of the commerce of the world. CHAPTER XL. "OUR long and intimate friendship," said the gentle and beautiful Mary Raymond, with a sweet smile of sympathy, " will excuse me in your eyes, Mr. Clinton, in conjecturing that Ethel is the attraction which has drawn you so far from home! If that conjecture be right, may I speak with you in confidence?" "Your kindness, Miss Raymond," replied Clinton, "is irre- sistible; your confidence would honor me beyond my merits." "Then," said Mary, "have you spoken of love to Ethel?" "I have."  "And her response," observed Mary; "what of that?" "Alasl" replied Clinton.- "It was fatal to my hopes. She is betrothed to another," "You can scarcely regret it more deeply than I did. When conversing of you with her," said Mary, "she revealed to me, in confidence, the same startling truth. Do you know to whom   she is affianced?" "I do not," replied Clinton. "Delicacy forbade my asking." -"You then have never heard from any source that another had addressed her?"' "Never," replied Clinton; "not the least rumor or suspicion of it." "Have you-seen William Mortimer   874       ETHEL SOMEBS; OR, since you left New York?" "I was with him a great portion of the time that I spent in NZew Orleans." "He then," said Mary, '"has kept his secret to him- self. It is to him that Ethel is betrothed. Let me, in revealing this' to you, Mr. Clinton, do Mr. Mortimer thejustice to say, that he was totally ignorant of all that had passed between you and Ethel; and I doubt not, is unconscious of it now. I have seen him several times at Woodlawn. A truer, nobler, trustier heart, never beat within a human breast. Nature has stamped his person with manly beauty, and his soul with attri- butes of the loftiest honor and virtue. My heart was filled with anxious hope that Ethel .might be yours. Fortune seems to have decreed otherwise, and failing to become yours, I would rejoice to see her Mortimer's. A dear affinity between my heart and one torn rudely and suddenly from earth, and between my spirit and the pure spirit of Ethel, makes her my sister in all but the reality of the earthly bond. Loving her as I do, I could not desire a happier union for her than she would have with the noble gentleman to whom her hand is pledged."  "Nor I," said Clinton. "Fortune has been unpropitious to me. But I trust, and will pray heaven, that its golden beams may rest for ever upon Ethel Somers and all she may love. Mortimer is worthy of her affection, and happy he will be, and may he be, reposing in its blissful light. " Such was the sincere sentiment of Clintonis heart; for, generousby nature, pure and- exalted in his feel- ings, there was no, place in his bosom for the existence of that feeling which leads some to wish that others may- be encompassed with gloomy shadows, because the sunlight cannot rest upon themselves. In the na- ture of things, it could not be expected that Clinton   THTE *,FTE OF THE UNION.   . 375 could desire to linger long in the Island'of Cuba, with a mind lacerated with bitter disappointment. This conversation with- Miss Raymond took place a few days after his first call upon Colonel Somers and his family. He had returned to Havana, and spent a portion of his time in viewing that city and neighbor- ing portions of the island, and he was now making his second and final call. Desirous of having a brief part- ing interview with Ethel, a favorable opportunity oc- curred to gratify his wishes. "My soul, Miss Somers,' said he, "-has passed through the fiery ordeal. Miss Raymond has kindly told me all. May you be happier with the gentleman of your choice, whom I am proud to call my friend, than you could have been with me, had it been my good fortune to have called you mine. Fate now separates us for ever.- I pray you to remember me in the future as your friend; the friend of him to whom you will soon be united by the tenderest and dearest ties; the friend of your section of the Union, in her- contests for those rights which are hers by the sacred guarantees of the Constitution. I do not,- I will not, complain, however dark may be my destiny. In striving to remove prejudice and error from the minds of my northern friends, in battling for equal rights, I shall be nerved with greater strength, and inspired with more devotion, that in doing both, I may serve at once my country and yourself. -In a few minutes more. I shall leave for Havana. By the first oppor- tunity I shall sail for New York, and it may be that my eyes now rest, for the last time, upon the only being who ever reigned supreme over the deep affeco. tions of my heart.' But perhaps'I trespass in speaking thus."    876      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, Ethel took Clinton's extended hand, and a tear moistened her cheek, as he pronounced the mournful word, "Farewell." Clinton declined the pressing ing inita- tion of Colonel Somers, and other friends, to remain until the following morning; and with a sigh for Mary Raymond, and a heart throbbing under the gloomy shadows of disappointment, he was soon wending his way to the city of Havana. On the following day, his desire to depart was gratified; and, bidding fare- well to his friends who had accompanied him from Charleston, he was once more upon the open sea, borne onward by a noble ship which danced in triumph upon its yielding waters. Weeks passed off, and Mary Raymond's health continued visibly to decline. A day had been ap- pointed, early in April, for the marriage of Ethel and Mortimer. No necessity existed for a longer stay in the Island of Cuba, for the weather was growing warm, and Mary herself insisted that they should return to the United States. 'The reader will imagine them again at-Woodlawn.  As the flowers opened, under the genial April sun, Mary--was evidently sinking fast. Soon after they reached Woodlawn, Colonel Somers informed Clinton, by letter, of Mary's-rapidly failing health, and  at her instance, requested him to visit Woodlawn as soon as possible. This was rendered necessary, as he was her acting attorney, and she de- sired to make him and Colonel Somers the -executors of her will. In consequence of Mary's condition, Ethel uged a postponement of her marriage; but Mary in- sisted that the ceremony should take place at the ap- ' E             I   THE FATE OF THE UNION.     8" pointed time, as she desired the happiness of seeing her married before her eyes should be closed upon the world for ever. In a few days Mortimer arrived in the neighborhood to await the happy hour which would make Ethel his in the sacred nuptial bands. But four days were wanting,- and he had called at Woodlawn to pay her the homage of his respect and devotion. Owing to Mary BRaymond's health, but few friends were to witness the marriage ceremony. Mortimer returned to Jackson after calling upon Ethel. He was greatly dis- turbed by her looks. Her extreme pallor was unac- countable. He could but observe her agitation when he eagerly inquired if she were ill. She could give no satisfactory solution of the cause of her excite. ment. "My dear Ethel," said Mary Raymond, "I am pained to see you look so pale. Tell me the cause. I am your sister in heart and in spirit I will leave you in a few days, it may be in a few hours. Tell your sister, who loves you, and will love you in the angel land, if aught disturbs your heart." When Ethel had- wiped away her tears, she said, "Ohl Mary, I have seen again the beautiful wandering spirit. It came to me in my sleep. I -thought its eyes would penetrate my soul. They glittered with unusual light, but it fell upon me as if it would blight my existence. I shuddered, and awakening, found myself trembling in every limb." "Did the spirit speak t1; you, sweet Ethel?" asked Mary Raymond. "No," replied Ethel. "Its looks were sadly, sorrowfully severe, but it spoke not. I felt so awed by its presence that I suddenly: awoke." "Would you, Ethel," said Mary,'" accept Edward Clinton, if you could be hornorably released from your .engagement with Mortimer?" "-lthough:   :78     , ;iBTUL SOMERS; OR, Ethel's cheek .ws as white as a tender lily, a deep blush suffused it at'this question of Mary Raymond's. When, soon after, Mrs. Somers sat alone by her bed- side, Mary Raymond explained, briefly, what had oc- curred to Ethel. After doing that, she continued, "I should die unhappy unless I could see William Mor- timer. I wish to see him now." The whole matter was briefly explained to Colonel Somers, who, yielding to Mary's wishes, despatched a message to Mortimer. He was introduced to Mary's room as soon as he ar- rived. "I am, Mr. Mortimer,"' said Mary, "on the verge of the grave. Already I feel that I am half im- mortal. As one who belongs as much to the spirit- land as to earth, I have sought this interview. You will not doubt the delicacy and purity of my motives." She then briefly explained to him Etherls and Clinton's past relations, not omitting the appearance to both of the wandering spirit. Mortimer did not wait for Mary Raymond to draw a conclusion from the facts she had related to him. Like Clinton's, his soul was the seat of the noblest generosity and the most refined and lofty sentiments. "I now see it all," said he. "From the hour in which Ethel graciously accepted the offer of my hand, I have observed a  sad mystery in the ex* pression of her face. I have attributed it, in part, to the death of her noble-hearted brother, but now I see that another trouble added its weight to that. I have been true to my pledge; I  have kept my faith; but, long since my heart told me  that my love for Ethel was founded on sympathy with her sorrow as much as admiration of her charms. I need not say that I have cherished her image in my bosom until it would deeply pain me to yield her to another. But I would yield my life to promote her happiness. I  have mingled *             j   THE FATE OF THE UNION.      879 much among men, studied their characters, and weighed their merits and motives. Edward Clinton has arisen in my esteem until it has grown into affection. Will- ingly would I yield my claims to his, but. my honor, my pledged word, that must be preserved as pure as the purity of heaven. Let the marriage be postponed. Do you sound Ethel's views, and I will Clinton's, and if destiny demands it, let them be united and happy." "I have sounded Ethel's already," said Mary. "You saw how pale she was. You know the reason. - She, Mr. Mortimer, I solemnly believe, would be true to her plighted word, and marry you at the risk of her life, but your noble, god-like disinterestedness removes all barriers to a union that seems to have been decreed by fate itself. I leave you to unfold the matter to Mr. Clinton. Ethel*must not be cognizant of what is pass, ing. Her delicacy, as a woman, must be protected. I will ask, as a favor to me, that the marriage be post- poned for the present. "I am happy to see you, my friend Mortimer," said - Clinton, as he met him in Jackson, the day which fol- lowed his interview with Mary Raymond. "'I think I can conjecture the reason of my finding you here, and I offer you my sincere congratulations upon your ap- proaching union with the fairest daughter of the South." "And I am equally' as happy," said Mortimer, to meet with you, and I cordially welcome you once more to our section of the Union." After this warm  and. friendly meeting, the two friends retired to a private apartment, where Mortimer lost no time in explaining all that had ocurredand 4, '   880       ETHEL SOMERS; OR, concluded by saying, "And now, my friend, let me meet your generous purpose to stand by the equal rights of every section of the Union, by yielding to you, as the first and rightful claimant, that being whom you have justly styled 'The fairest daughter of the South.' Why need we detain the reader with all that passed in the generous rivalry of these noble speci- mens of northern and southern gentlemen. -Clinton offered his hand and heart again to Ethel, whose gentle bosom leaped with tumultuous felicity. - She and Mor- timer met, and parted as the best of friends. Clinton came to the South only to see a dying friend, and ex- perienced the inexpressible happiness of being united, in less than a week after his arrival, to the charming Ethel, whose* cheek, lately so pale, blushed like the roses of spring. The marriage was hastily consum- mated at the earnest request of Mary Raymond. A few days after this event, her-friends assembled around her to witness the parting scene. Her face was illu- mined with smiles. A  new world opened to her vision as the Reverend Mr. Chester had closed a fer- vent and heart-lifting prayer. She spoke sweetly of the opening hues of heaven-a Paradise of gardens, thronged with angelic hosts, floating in golden skies. Mother-Charles-and other loved names, were the last words which escaped her lips, and in a moment more her happy spirit was at rest. She lay garlanded itpon a' stately couch, pale as the pure white flowers around her, with her soft white hands folded upon a gentle bosom never more to heave with tenderness or, life. H6w cold and motionless she lies. Hushed is her silvery voice, which had fallen like sweetest music on the ears of the suffering poor, and dim are those eyes which had  parkled with heavenly -lustre. A   THE FATE OF THE UNION. &881 calm, sweet expression lingers on her lovely face, as if stamped there by some beatific vision, as the spirit left the beautiful temple in which, for a time, it tabernacled upon earth. She was placed in a grave beside that of ]her Charles, and there let them rest until they shall rise together in that day when time shall be no more. The poor were not forgotten in the last days of her life. Provision was made for them, which will make the name of Mary Raymond linger upon the lips, and remain fresh in the memories, of many who shall be clothed, and fed, and comforted by her bounty. The mystery of the check which had been received by the elder Clinton, was now removed.  fortimer, as the agent of Mary Raymond, had mailed it in the city of Philadelphia. What is left of our story can be soon told. Cumberland- was made happy by a union with Ilmena; and Percival, at the same time, changed the name of Elizabeth Mezenow to his own. Mortimer, whose heart -had been half divided between Ethel and' the graceful and winning Isabel Lee, was soon taken wholly captive by her merry laugh and joyous spirit. He proposed, was accepted, and' made supremely happy in the possession of as much beauty, -and as many virtues and charms, as man can rarely find to cover his pathway with the rosy light of happiness. And now, as the love of woman inspired one to search for truth, and removed the barriers to indi- vidual union and happiness, so let the love of our glorious Union produce results as happy for states and people. As our southern hero, not less accomplished, in mind and person, than our northern, generously yielded to the latter the love, light, and idol of his heart, upon the altar of love and-honor, so let our northern brethren yield their prejudices, for the sake   82      ETHEL SOMERS; OR, of the Union, upon the sacred altars of equality and! justice. Then would our happy Union be perpetuated in peace, and rise higher and higher in colossal great- ness, to become the beacon-light of the world, while hundreds of millions of happy freemen would bask in its glory, and rejoice in its blessings. so A     
         
       
   
