
    ----CITATION----
        Billings, Josh, (1818-1885). Josh Billings on Ice, and Other Things .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7744
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Josh Billings on ice, and other things 
            
                   Josh Billings visits the new Skating Pond, and witnesses a rather interesting acci- dent, which he describes as "a living lovely mass ov disastrous skirt and tapring ankle,"-See page 12.    JOSH    BILLINGS  ON ICE, AND OTHER THNGS. WITH COMC ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. H. HOWARD.' NEW YOREK: W. CARLETON Oo ,P UBLISHERS, "ONDON:---. O. HOTTON.   Entered according to act of Congress in the year 1868, by G. W. CARLETON & CO., In the Clerk's office of the District Court of -the United States, for the Southern District of New York.   CONTENTS. PAGE L --JOSH ON ICE ................* ...... II.--SuBm NATRAL BIISTORY. ..................    14 "I. -LIVE YABMEES. ...............................  20 IV. -ItCH PINS    ............. .  ......*********** 23 V.- GOOSE TALK. ..................2.........   .  26 VI.- JosH BILLINGS: lIZ SHADE   TREE ............ 28 VII.--JOSH CORRESPONiS FREELY WITH   3 FELLOWS... 31 VIII.-MONOGRAFFS ..........*..   ..*...     ....... 36 IX.--HONESTA IS THE BEST POLICY .................   39 X.--GREAT AGIEIKULTU!RAL HOSS-aOTf .........*...   42 XI.-JOSH BILLINGS DEFINES HS POSITION........    46 XIL.--OOLD PIECES .........................    00.. ... 47 XI.--L,  TTEF.!ROM JOSH BILI&NGS ............  ....... 50 XIV.--WISDOM CEiNxKS ............................. e54 XV.  . BILTADs ..........................     . 58 XVI. -JOSH BILLNGS clZES" ......................    60 XVII.-BILLINGS ON PILLS ............  ............... 63 XVIII.--JosH IN SARATOGA ................. .......    66 XIX.- SUM VEGETABT;,' ] STOR Y   ....  .................. " XXX.--JOSH' REPES TO CoRimESPONDENTS ............. " XXI.- LIST OF HOUSEN TEW LET. .................. 80 , XXII.-LATGi   . ................. ............ .... , 73   vii           CONTENTS. PAGE CxxlI .--LrN G   .. . ................. .....   .... 85 XXIV.--PEEUSSION CAPs ..................... ......    87 XXV.-ONE WEEE   FOM  My DIARY .................. 91 XXVI.--AMERICAN ARTSTOCBACY ............    ........... 94 XXVII.- LOV  . .. .................... .... ............. 96 XXVm.--THE GAME    OF Y WKK ...... ........... .   98 XXTX.-Now AND THEN     ........... ................... 100 XXX. -OATTS ..  .............             1 03 XXXT.--T-WAs . ALLS .................          106 XXX1T.-POuTEmNESS ...............................     109 XXXrTTI.--DRBMS ...............   .................... Ill XXX1V.--JosH COESPONDS ............................. e113 XXXV.-NEWS CUT FROM OUR EXCHANGES .......... .... 118 XXXVI.-DEAD BEATS ......................         122 XXXVII.-SPiNG--  -MAY, 1868 ....................... .  125 XXXVIII.- HABTESS .................. ........... ......... 125 XXTX.--MONOGRAsES       ......... ..... ..... ...... .  128 XL.--JOSH BILLINGS AND Tim LwEl.'uK COaMTTY.... 133 XLI.-ORPHAN CTHLDsEN ................ ......e     137 XLI.--BrLINGS REPIaZE TEW COBRESPONDENTS ...... 140 XLTTTT.--CHaIs rFOM TrEi BUTT CUT OF WIDSDU   ....... 143 XLIV.--ESS A ON SWINE .............................. 346 XLV.-ON SEWING MACHNES ......        ................ 148 XLVI.--Sum ADVIsE ................................. 150 XLVI.--TAE rr EEASY ...................... .....     153 XLVIII. -JosH CORRESPONDS .........     ............. .. 155 XLTX..-THrEM   GOOD OLD DAzE ....................... 159 L.-A HUM    TANSACTION .............       161 "I.-' LHm, WISXEEm AND BEER..................... 164 -LII.-PLuCE- .. ............................. 170   CONTENTS.              ix C0NTW, IS. :PAGE LiEI.-FREE LOVE .................................. 171 "V.--FAST MEN ................................... 173 "V.--JOSH REPLIZE TO ONE OF EIZ CORBESPONDENTS.. 175 "VI.--H   AN HAPPINESS ....................      1" "VII.- PmLOSOPHEE OV THE BMLrIaGS FAMTFPE ,....... 180 "VIIIl--AMEIANS .................................. 183 "X.--JOSH CLEANS OUT S PIGEON-HOIE OF COMMES- PONDENTS ..  ....  ............. ....... ...... 186 "X.--JOSH CHAWS MS C    ............. ............ 180 "XI.-MONOGRAFFS ................................. 193 "XII.--JOS  TALES ................................. 198 "XII.-G  IMBLETS .................................. 203 "XIV. -MORE COmESPONDExNTS ...................... 205 "XV.-SOME NATRAL HSTOBY ...................... 210 "XVI.-S   S    O THOUGHT .............................. 216 "XVII.-THE Bozzs ...........................        219 "XVIII. HMNOGrs FFS- .............................. 223 "XIX.-PmHn  LOSOPHEE ON THE -ALF-SHTVT,  ............ 227 "XX.--JOsH EPISTOLITES ....................       229 "XXI.--ALmNAx iroR   1869 .................    ... 234 "XXII-SUm NATRAL BHSTRY ................... ..... 239 "XXH.-MoNOGoAFrrs .......................... .. .     242 "XXTV.-JosH DOES UP HS COBRESPONDENTS      ........... 247 "XXV.- CUPI    ON A RISE ........................... 251 "XXVI. -JH COMMENCES    WITH HS FRIEND ............ 255 "XXVII.--JAW BoNEs ................................... 259 "XXVII.--MonE PmHLOSOPHY.     ...................... .. e260    JOSH ON ICE. HAVING herd mutch sed about skating parks, and the grate amount ov helth and muscle they woz im- parting tew the present generashun at a slite advanse from fust cost, i bought a ticket and went within the fense. I found the ice in a slippery condishun, covering about 5. akers ov artvfishall water, which waz owned bi a stock company, and froze tew order. Upon one side ov the pond waz erekted little gro- sery buildings, where the wimmin sot on benches while the fellers (kiwered with blushes) hitched the magick iron tew their feet. It waz a most exsiting scene: the sun waz in the skey--and the wind waz in the air-and the birds were in the South-and the snow waz on the ground -and the ice lay shivering with a bad kold-and an- gells (ov both genders) flucktuated past me pro and con, 2 and fro, here a little and thare a good deal,   12       JOSH BrTrJJNGS. It waz a most exsiting scene; I wanted tew holler "Bully" or lay down and rool oven But i kept in, and aked with glory. Helth waz piktured on menny a nobell brow. Az the femail angells put out ov the pond, side by side with the male angells, it waz the most powerfull scene i ever stood behind. The long red tape from their necks swum in the breeze, and the feathers in their jockeys fluttered inA the breeze, and other things (tew mutrh to menshun) fluttered in the breeze. : I don't think i ever waz mbre crazy before in mi life-on ice. For 2 long hours i stood and gazed with dum ex- sitement. I felt like a kanall hoss turned suddinly out to grass. I didn't kno how tew proceed. Az one ov the angells, more sudden than all the rest, cum flying down the trak, 3 lengths ahed ov her male angell, awl eyes ware gorging with her heaven- ly bust ov speed; she seemed tew hav cut luce from earth, and waz bound South, for the GCape ov Good Hope, when awl tew onst, with gorgous swoop ter- riffick, down-crumbling into a limpid heap she went with squeak terriffick, a living lovely mass ov dis- astrous skirt and tapring ankle.    *! cfi       JOSH O N IC.       13 Awl gathered around the bursted angell; but lo  in a minnitt's space, her wings agin was plumed, and evry feather waz in its lawful plase; and on she fled laffing like wine thru its buteous blushes. I had saw enuff-more happyness than belonged tew me-and az i sloly wendedback tew mi home at the tavern i felt-good.--    II. SUM NATRAL HSTORY. THARE iz no tuition so cheap and so handy az nat- ral history. It prevails evrywhare; the cockroach and the beho- math are built out ov it, the lizard and the elephant are full ov it, it is the monkey's right bower, and the kangaroo's best jump. The grass, the dandelion and the spinnage are its children; it is the language ov creeping things, the majesta ov the mountin, the soul ov the talking brook, and the inspiration ov the lambkin's tail. Natral history iz dogg cheap. To open our eyes, and think while we are looking iz aul the capital necessary for the naturalizing bizz- ness. Who wouldn't be a naturalizer, when natur makes such cheap sacrifices upon aul her alters, and holds the insense under our very nozes? This iz what ails me this morning, tew study the    SUM!NATRAL HSTORY.        15 light-hearted grasshopper, the relentless bed-bugger,' and the elastickflea.- The Bible sez, "The grasshopper is a burden," and i never knu the Bible tew say anything that warnt so. : When the grasshop begins tew liv they are verry small, but in a little while thare gits tew be plenty ov them. They only liv one year at once, and then go back, and begin agin. Their best gait iz a hop, and with the wind on their quarters they can make sum good time. They are a sure krop to raize, but sum years they !:   raize more than others.  I hav seen sum fields so full ov them that you couldn't stick another grass- hopper in, unless you sharpened him off tew a pint. When they git so very plenty, they are very apt tew want tew -start, and then they bekum a traveling famine, and leave the road they take az barren az the inside ov a country church during a week day. Grasshoppers don't seem tew be acktually neces- sary for our happiness, but they   may be; we don't even know what we want most. I don't want grasshops tew giv entirely out, not if they are a blessing, but i hav thought (to myself) if they would let the grass and cornstalks be, and   16      . JOSH BTTTLLTNGS. pitch onto the burdoks-and Canada thissells, i would bet a few dollars on the thissells, jist tew encourage the fight, and wouldn't care a cuss if they both got finally licked.- But mi best judgment would be tew bet on the grasshbps. I never see ennybody yet but what despised Bed Bugs.   They are the meanest ov aul crawling, creeping, hopping, or biteing things. They dassent tackle a man bi dalite, but sneak in, after dark, aplA chaw him while hAds fast asleep. A musketo will fight you in broad dalite, at short range, and giv you a chance tew knock in hiz sides -the flea iz a game bugg, and will make a dash at you even in Broadway-but the bed-bugg iz a gar- roter, who waits till you strip, and then picks out a mellow place tew eat you. If i was ever in the habit ov swearing, i wouldn't hesitate to damn a bed bugg right tew hiz face. Bed bugs are uncommon smart in a small way; one pair ov them will stock a hair mattrass in 2 weeks, with bugs enuff tew last a small family a whole year. It don't do enny good to pray when bed bugs are in season; the only way tew git rid ov them iz tew   SUM NATRAL HSTORY.       17 bile up the whole bed in aqua fortis, and then heave it away and buy a new one. Bed buggs, when they hav grone aul they intend to, are about the size ov a bluejay's eye, and hav a brown complexion, and when they start out to gar- rote are az thin az a grease spot, but when they git thru garroting they are swelled up like a blister. It takes them 3 days tew git the swelling out ov them. If bed buggs have enny destiny, to fill, it must be- their stummuks; but it seems tew me that they must hav bin made by acksident, jist az sliwers are, tew stick into sumboddy. If they waz got up for sum wise purpose, they must hav took the wrong road, for there kant be enny wisdum in chawing a man aul night long, and raising a family, besides, tew loller the same trade.   X If thare iz sum wisdum in aul this, I hope the bed buggs will chaw  them folks who kan see it, and leave me be, bekause i am one ov the hereticks. The smallest animal ov the brute creashun, and the most pesky, iz the Flea. They are about the bigness ov an onion seed, and shine like a bran new shot.   18        JOSH BTTqTNGS& They spring from  low places, and kan spring further and faster than enny ov the bug-brutes. They bite wuss than the musketoze, for they bite on a run; one flea will go aul over a man's sub- burbs in 2 minnits, and leave him az freckled az the meazels. It iz impossible to do ennything well with a flea on you, except sware, and fleas aint afraid ov that; the only way iz tew quit bizzness ov aul kinds and hunt for the flea, and when you have found him, he ain't thare. Thiz iz one ov the flea mysterys, the fackulty they hav ov being entirely lost jist as soon as you hav found them. I don't suppose thare iz ever killed, on an average, during enny one year, more than 16 fleas, in the whole ov the United States ov America, unless thare iz a cazualty ov sum kind. Once in a while thare iz a dogg gits drowned sudden, and then thare may be a few fleas lost They are about Iaz hard to kill az a flaxseed iz, and if you don't mash them up az fine az ground pepper they will start bizzness agin, on a smaller kapital, jist az pestiverous az ever. Thart iz lots ov people who have never seen a flea, and it takes a pretty smart man tew see one enny- how; they don't stay long in a place. If you ever ketch a flea, kill him before you do   SUM NATRAL HSTORY.      19 ennything else; for if you put it oph 2 mnnints, it may be too late. Menny a flea haz past away forever in less than 2 minnits   . .        '   IIL MLVE YANiKEE S. "VE Yankees are chuck full of karakter and sissing hot with enterprize and curiostv. In bild we find them az lean az a hunter's dorg, with a parched countenance, reddy for a grin, or for a sorrow; ov elaastick step: thortful, but not ab- strakted; pashunt, bekauze cunnin; ever watchful; slo to anger; avoiding a fight; but rezolute at bay. In dress alwuz slik, but not stuck up; their har- ness alwuz betrays them wherever they go. The oil ov their langwidge iz their dezire tew pleze, and their greezy words foreshadder a proffit. They are natral mechanicks; the histry ov man's necessitys iz the histry ov their invenshuns. The Live Yankee haz no hum; hiz luv ov inven- -shun breeds a luv ov change, and wharever a human trail shows itself we find him pantin on the trak. He never gits sick at the stummuk in a furrin land, or grows sentermental; the buty ov a river tew him iz its capacity for a steambote; its sloping banks checker into bildin lots, and its poetry -waters might do the drudgery oy'a cottin rmilL r -    , ' :: LIVE YANKEES. '      21 He looks at a marble pyramid, guesses at its height, calkulates the stone by the perch, and sells the magnifisent relick in Boston at a proffit. He climbs the Alpin hights, crossed by conkerin heroes, and iz struk with the proprierty ov tunnel- ing it. He sits, cross-legged, beneath the sheltring vine and listens to the oneazy sea, sees the warm promise ov the grape, and forgettin the holy memrys ov the land ov song, grinds the smilin vintage into wine and maiks a happy bargin. You can meet him in Constanternopel, makin up in grimace what he lacks in langwidge, spreadin a plaster with hiz tounge, for the man ov Mahomet. Go where you will, from the numb palsied North tew the swetting limberness ov the South, from the top ov earth's mornin tew half past eleven at night, and the everlastin Yankee you will find, either vehe- ment in an argue, or purswazive in a swop. Hiz religion iz praktik-al; he mourns over the heathen, and iz reddy tew save them. by the job. He luvs liberty with a red pepper enthuziasm, and fully beleafs Nu England kan whip .the universe. If the phlegmatick Englishman brags about roast beef and hiz ansesters, Jonathan haz a pumkin pie and a grandpop tew match them. If the Frenchman grows crazy over a frigazee ov   22       JOSH BTLTjTTNGS. frog's hind legs, Jonathan pulls out a donut and a Rhode Island greening. If the .dusky Italian talks about the mad vomits ov vesuvius, Jonathan turns in the water power ov Niagara. In argument alwuz ernest, and in reazoning alwuz specius, this progressive phenomena tramps the world with the skeleton ov a pattent right in hiz carpet bag, and, in his ever open hand and face a pleasant "Heow air yer?" If you would save your pride from  bein sand- papered, risk it not in a dicker with Jonathan. Hiz razor is the true Damascus, strapped on the wand ov Midas for a-golden harvest; hiz sanctity iz often shrewdness, and hiz sweet savor iz often the reflekted halo ov the comin shillin. Constitushunaly and by edukashun honest, he iz alwuz reddy tew cry for the deeds dun in the boddy; hiz hospitalitys and charities are cerimonial dutys, and if hiz -religion iz sometimes only the severitvs ov a sabbath, it iz bekauze hiz bias iz the thursting impulse ov a creatint genius .chained tew the more sordid pashun for lucre.   IV. "NCH-PINS. I WANT to bet 3 Dollars, that no' man ever matched himself agin the Devil, but whaat he got beat. And I want to bet one dollar and seventy-five cents more, that thare is no villin on airth so gratety mean az he who reccommends a vice that he has too mutch prudence to indulge in himself. I hav held, that if a man iz'virtuous, he kan't be ignorant; and i still hold it. Aim hi, if you strike low. The man who under- takes tew jump 375 feet ahed, will sertinly make a good try.     ' I never knu a man who was alwus anxious tew repent uv his sins before he had committed them, who didn't -want the sharpest kind ov watching. "Don't put oph till to-morrow what kan be did to-day." It is better even to do a foolish thing at   24        LINCH-PINSa onst, if you have positiffly made up yure mind to do it. I never bet, enny stamps on the man who iz always tellingf what he would have did if he had bin thare; I hav notised that this kind never git Ihare. Faith don't appear to me tew be ennything-more than tip top good' sense; all the faith thare is in this world now wont keep a man from falling to the 'bottom of a well if he lets go ov the curb to spit on hiz;hands. When' i git to not having enny good luck, it duz seem to me that i kan hav more ov it than enny man i ever knu, and not half try; i suppose it seems jist so to you, my friend, don't it? I kant think ov enny talent now, that iz so apt to descend from father to son, untarnished, as the gift ov exaggeration. "Thare aint ennything nu under the sun."  The old feller in Connekticut, who carried the same old jack-knife for 43 years, and wore out 9 new handles, and 12 setts ov blades, sez so. Thare aint, after all, but one right way to dew -things. I hav seen kows that you could milk on both sides, but they wan't more than haff broke.   JOSH BTTLTTNGS.       20 A man may hav a perfek right to be born single, but I dought whether he haz a light tew continny on so. I take it, that the excellence of human natur consists in lifting the greatest amount ov sorrow with the least amount ov grinm Them who make the most blow, hav the least fragranse-it iz jess so with the hollerhauk. The best edukashun a man receives in this life," he gits just before he dize, and it mostly consists in forgetting what he haz larnt before. The world looks with kold respek upon an ackt ov justiss, but heave up their hats at a display ov mer- sy  Yet the one iz the strength ov virtue,while the other iz most often its gratest- weakness. A mind that haz more imaginashun than sense iz like a goose-fust rate tew fli down hill. I don't think the world haz enny Civilizashun tew spare, but i think she haz more than she kan manage well. Poetri, tew be excellent, wants tew be like natur, but about 4 times az big.   GOOSE 'TA^LK. The goose is a grass-animal but don't chaw her cud, They are good livers; about one aker to 'a goose iz efiuff, altho there iz sum folks who thinks one goose tew 175 akers, is nearer right. These two calculations are so fur apart, it iz dif- ficult tew tell now, which will finally win. But i don't think, if i had a farm ov 175 akers, awl paid for, that i would sell it for half what it was worth, just bekauze it didn't hav but one goose on it. Geese stay well; sum ov our best biographers say, .70 years, and grow tuff tew the last. They lay one egg ate once, about the size of a goose egg, in which the gosling lies hidd. The gosling iz the goose's babe. The goose don't suckle hiz young, but turns him out tew. pasture on sumboddy's vacant lot. They seem tew lack wisdom, but are considered generally soundon. the goose. They are good eating, but not good chawing; the reason ov this remains a profound sekret to this day.   GOOSE TAL^-         27 When the femail goose iz at work hatching, she iz a hard bird tew pleaze; she riles clear up from the bottom in a minnit, and will fight a yoke ov oxen, if they show her the least bit ov sass. The geese iz excellent for feathers, which she sheds every year by the handful. They are also amphibicuss, besides several other kinds ov cuss. But they are mostly cureiss about one thing: they kan haul one leg up into their body, and stand on tuther, awl day, and not tutch ennything with their hands.               . I take notis, thare ain't but darn few men kan dew this. *       r   VIT JOSH BTTLTTNGS: \HZ SHADE TREE. SuM fu years ago, when i want so old nor near so hansum az i am now, i waz a feller citizen in one ov the sudden towns, which during the past 25 years, hav fairly sprung up, az it were, by necromancy, in the western country. At that time I waz verry ritc h and owned a house, and lot. At one corner, on mi lot, stood, or rather leaned, a tree, az awkward az a shanghi rusetor; it bent at least 3 different ways, and its limbs were az sprawling az tho it' had bin born in a nort-west storm. I had sum pride in them days, and longed to put that shade tree out ov misery. The tree was a nondescribe, but seemed tew be a mingling ov the silver popular, which haz sich uneazy leaves, and a species ov soft maple. I would hav cut it down if mi heart had bin sharp enuff; but altho i havlived on the edge ov the wil. derness for more than half ov mi life, i never yet (   JOSH BILLINGS. HZ SHAD!E-TREE.   29 saw a tree fall before the choppers, but a shudder crept out ov me, it seemed so mutch like a wanton cruelty; But i had manned mi guns far one thing, and that waz, the tree had got tew be trimmed. I had four nabors near at hand; two lived upon the same side ov the street that I did, and the other two didn't. They were mi Apollos, and when i wanted enny soothsaying done, i went tu them. I will say one thing for these nabors, they waz always willing tew give advice. i Accordingly i asked each one ov them, az opportu- nity offered, how the tree should be clipped The first one suggested to leave the lower branches intact, and take oph the head ov the tree, and then it would soon form a cone, compact and graceful, like an umbreller on duty. This plan pleased me, bekauze it had bin mi plan. The next one picked out certain limbs, that pos- itively must cum off. The third one had hiz noshun, which he knu waz right; and the fourth one never saw a tree ov that kind trimmed but one way, which he suggested in sich an unmistakabel manner, that I felt like a pashunt in the hands ov a root dokter, willing tew take enny thing.   30       JOSH BTTLTNGS. After fully elaborating each one ov the four diag. nosiss ov the kase,.i went tew work like a humbel christshun tew carry the whole ov them out. I had no trouble in doing this. But the tree (the Lord watch over mi poor shade tree!) was nothing but a gaunt stick about 10 feet hi, too crooked to fall, not a limb nor a leaf on it, and too frightful even for a hitching post. ; 1st Moral-Advicel iz good only az corroborating testimony. 2nd Moral-If yu put yureself into the hands ov yure frends, yu must expekt that the kindness ov their hearts iz no protekshun aginst the willfullness' ov their judgments. 3rd Moral.-Advice iz like a dotor's pills: it iz often advisabel tew receive them without taking them. 4th Moral-One man kan alwus milk a cow better than 4 kan.      ,  '     VII.        , JOSH   CORRESPONDS   FREELY   WITH  3 FELLTOWS. Shortfellow.-Yure views are correkt; thare iz no telling what bosses will trot by Jlooking at them. Lady Thorne and Dexter are no more bilt alike thsan the Black Crook and Flying Scud. Neither do i i think that pedigree ever makes a boss fast enny , more than it makes a man smart. Eambletonian and sum ov the kings ov England hav both' sired lunkheads. If a boss iz made right, he can proceed fast, i don't kare who made hirm  Flying Dutchman Llived and died, and left a two-mile heat on the books that haint bin duplikated yet, and about aul that iz ,known ov him iz that he waz got in a brickyard in Pensilvany. Tom Thum went the fust 100 miles in 10 hours that waz ever did, and he had ho more pedigree than a prary dorg, or a Digger injun. * Who ever heard ov Flory Temple having enny pedigree? If she ever gits one, it will be like menny ov the epitaffs we read in the gra veyards-courteous libels.   *             .   82        JOSH BLTNTLGS. I hav seen French ponys go on the ice faster than you could telegraff, bilt like a pumpkin seed, and with a pedigree just about as pure as a dock rat's. Still, if you or i should talk these things among the literati ov the boss stabel, we should probably git our front teeth knocked out. If i waz going tew buy a trottin boss i would't ask about his pedi- gree enny more than i would ask who made a mint julep. If the boss didn't suit me, i am dredful sertain the pedigree wouldn't. Old Eclipse never waz beaten in hiz day, and his full brother wasn't' fast enuff for a modern hearse boss. Big/ellow.-Trout fishing iz a good deal like painting picktures-you have got to be born how; you kant leam how. It don't require the genius ov a statesman tew know how tew ketch a trout; but the two best trout fishers I ever knu waz Daniel Webster and old Ishmael. Both were natiffs ov Nu England; one ov them everyboddy iz proud to1 remember, and the other waz a simple old nigger; but i think the old dark waz the best fisher ov the two. HEe would walk up tew a hole in the brook, whare a big trout lay az careless and yet az still az a hen turkey, and stand thare till the fish mistook him for the stub ov a tree, then would drop his worm, or his grasshopper, or (if the seazon waz right) would danse '4   JOSH CORRESPONDS FFLTY WT'I 8 FELLOWS. 83 hiz flie above the trout's head so literal that the fish would bite merely from the force ov habit, whether he waz hungry or not. This old Afrikan alwus started out for trout just as a dorg duz for mischief, the other way from whare he waz going, and never cum back without a trophy. The best kind of a trout pole for brook-fishing grows along side ov the brook. They are black alder, and have the same kind ov a taper that a rat tarriers tale duz. Twelve foot is long enuff for the pole, and the brook that don't raize them somewhare on its' banks iz not a good trout stream. But thare aint room enuff in a letter for meltew talk trout Go with me sumtime next May among the mountains, and i will show yu how tew win theze little spotted -a morsels from their wet and noisy homes. But- though I like company generally-tew be honest about it, trout fishing iz a good deal like sparlking- one feller at a time iz enufE. Littlefellow.-Yu tell me in your letter "that musik iz yure egstatick bliss; that yure soul iz sot tew musick, and feeds-on its gorgons viands." I am glad tew hear yu say so, for now. i know yu won't never du enny big mischief in this world. Enny- boddy who loves musick- az much az yu say you do, don't want enny other kind ov oats. I am unfortu- nate in this direkshun. I don't kno one note from 2*   34        JOSH BETLUNG another, unless it iz a bank-note, and i never had enny ear for musick since i waz a boy. Once in a While, in them daze, the schoolmarm, in lifting me u- off from the bench by the ears tew see how heavy i waz, would start the musick out of- me. I never ten ed but one gorgous opera in my life, and it won't never be convenient for me tew tend another. A foirin woman sung sum ov the " gorgous viands" yu speak ov. She was Very fat herself, and want very thoroughly; drest about the neck and naber- hood. She threw her head back like a sled runner, and yelled az tho she had a rat on her. I expekted every minnit tew see her arrested for breaking the piece. I suppose if i had the right kind ov taste for gorgous vittles, this kind ov musick would eat me good. I heard a milkmaid once sing, in a cow-yard, as she sot by the side ov a heifer just as the sun waz setting. It waz a love story song. Perhaps there was no gorge in it; but there waz sumthing in it that made me feel sorry aul over. This iz aul i kno about musick. I could listen aul day tew that kind ov soft sadness she -sung about, and feel lone- sum and lonesummer aul the time.   VITIL MONOGRAFFS. THE Jealous Man iz alwus a-hunting. He is alwus a-hunting for sumthing that he don't expeckt tew find, and after he haz found it then he iz mad bekauze he haz. Theze fellers don't beleaf in spooks, and yet they are about the only folks who ever see enny. A jealous man iz alwus happy, jist in perposhun az he iz mizerable. Jelosy iz a disseaze, and it iz a good deal like sea sickness-dreadful sick, and kan't vomit. The Anonymous Man boards at a red tavern, and pays for hiz board bi tending bar occasionly. He hain't got any more karakter than the jack ov spades 'haz, when it ain't trumps. He iz a loafer bi profession, without enny vices. He rides on the box, once in a while, with the driver, and noboddy thnks ov asking him for hiz stage fare. He iz az useless az an extra pump would be in the desert ov Sarah.     ,     86        JOSH BTTLLTNGS. He sprung from a respektable family; his great grandfather woz a justiss ov the peace; but he has not got vanity enuff tew brag on it. He ain't necessarily a phool, enny more than a bull's eye watch iz; if enny boddy will wind him up,' he will sett still, and run quietly down. The Stzff Man looks down, when he walks, upon folks. -He don't seem tew hav but one limber jinte in him, and that iz lokated in hiz noze. He is a kind of maskuline turkey, on parade in a barn-yard. He iz generally loaded with wisdum clear up tew the muzzell, and when he goes oph, makes a noize like a cannon, but don't dew enny dammage. I hav seen him fire into a crowd, and miss evry man..- This kind ov stiff man iz verry handy tew flatter. They seem tew know they ain't entitled tu a good artikle, and, tharefore, are satisfied with hard soap. Thare ain't but fu men who git stiff on what they acktually know, but most aul ov them git stiff on what they acktually feel. Stiff men are called aristokrats, but this ain't so. Thare ain't no such, thing as aristoklnats in this country. The country ain't long enuff yet, unless a man haz got sum Indian in him.   MONOGRAFS.   .     87 Az a gen'ral thing, stiff men git mad dredful eazy, and have tew git over it dredful eazy, bekauze folks ain't apt tew git a big skare at what they ain't afraid J Ov. Stiff man had a grandfather once, who went tew Congress from our distrikt, and thare ain't one in the whole family that hav been able tew git limber sinse. The Model Man never disturbs a hen when she iz setting; never speaks cross tew a lost dogg; always puts a five cent shinplaster in hiz vest pockett late Saturday night, tew hav it ready Sunday morning  for the church platter; rizes whenever a lady enters the street kars; remembers your uncle plainly, and asks after all the family. If he steps on a kat's tail, is sure to do it light, and immegiately asks her par- don; reads the PHUNNY PFiELLow, and laffs be- kause he kan't help it; hooks up hiz wife's dress, and plays boss with the children. Never meddles with the cream on the milk-pans; goes eazily of err- ands and cums back in seazon ; attends every boddy's phuneral; kan always tell when the moon changes; thinks just az yu do, or the other way if you want him to; f9llows evry boddy's advice but hiz own; praktices most ov the virtews without knowing it; leads the life ov a shorn lamb; gits sick after a *   38     IJOSE BTT4TrNGS. while, and dies az soon az he kan, tew save making enny further trubble. The model man's vices are not feared, nor hiz virtews respekted.' He lives in the memory of the world just about az long az a pleasant day duz. He may be called "a "clever feller," and that iz only a libel; but he will git hiz reward herafter- when the birds get theirs.   IX. 1HONESTA IZ THE BEST POLISY. THE author ov this proverb waz either a very. shrude man, or he acksidentily spoke what he didn't think. Honesta iz, in mi opinyun, a mere matter ov polisy. Man iz, waz, and alwus will be, a dishonest critter by natur. It iz az natral for him tew steal when he wants- {ew, az it iz tew blo hiz nioze. In order tew git sosiety into decent shape, so that the masheen could be run without a continual bust, it waz absolutely necessary that man should make himself honest. If that hadn't hav bin did, it wouldn't hav bin - safe tew leave a saw-mill out of doors after dark. Hence honesta bekum  a matter ov polisy, and it works well,  ,  The fear ov the law here, and the law 'hereafter, haz furnished  us sum very clever specimens tof Christianity.   40       JOSH BILLIN'GS3o Serpoze thare waz no law agin 2 wives, how men- ny men iz thare in yure naberhood, that wouldn't sustain the law? I hav thought that aul the virtues, and aul the' affekshuns, (except- the few which are instinkts, and which we and the dogs have just about alike,) are mere opprashuns of polisy. Ov course the virtews improve by hoeing, and mankind haz bekum better, just az they hav bekum richer, by keeping their munny and morals at 10 per cent; interest. Menny folks are down on luxurys, and plum pud- din, but i aint; the more puddin folks hav, the more they will develop. Stop the hanker in human natur for any more plum puddin, and nu bonnets, and in about 450 years, men and wimmin would all go tew grass, az Nebucunesser did. Once more, honesta and virtew,-in the lump, are not natral, but matters ov polisy ; i may be wrong about this, but if i am, enny boddy else kan git wrong the same way i hav, by asking himself about hiz own human natur. Human natur iz the same aul over north amerika, except in those places whare they subsist by playing   ' IONESTA IZ THE BEST POLISY.  41 poker, and thare it depends a good deal upon the number of aces in a pack; i hav seen sum packs that had 9 aces in them, upon the principle that 5 aces will beat 4 aces and a king. aces   X. GREAT AGRIKULT'UHAL HOSS-TROTT. AT BTLT,lNGSVTLLTXF Oct. 10, 11, '12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, & 20h. JOS Bo NILINCS, EPO TERE. AGRIKULTUR iZ the mother ov provisions; she iz also the grandmother. If it want for agricultur, thare wouldn't be enny beans, and if it want for enny beans, thare wouldn't be enny suckertash. Agrikultur waz fust diskovered by Cain, and has been diskovered since to be an honest way to 'get a hard living. Pumpkins owes aul her suceess tew agrikultur, so duz lettis, and bukwheat. The Billingsville agrikultural society opened Oct. ten, and waz a powerful success. The reciepts ov the Agrikultural Fair waz upwards ov $30,000 (if mimemry serves me rite, and i think she duz. )   GREAT AGRIKULTURAL HOSS-TROT.    43 The Hon. Virgil Bickerstaff, the next agrikultural member ov Congress from our district, sold the agri- kultur pools. FUST DAY. A puss ov ten dollars was trotted for by sucking colts, that had never trdtted before for munny. Thare waz thirteen entries. Thare waz 60,000 people on the track to witness      the rase, (if mi memnry serves me rite, and i thinki she duz. ) The puss was won amid vociferous exclamashuns by a red colt, and the waving ov handkerchiefs, with a strip in his face, and the fainting ov several fust-class females, and one white foot behind. SEKOND DAY. It rained like a perpendikularaul day, and no trot- ting could be had, so the audience aul went hum, cuss- ing and swaring, and offering tew bet four tew six on ;he Pete Tucker colt. THRD' DAY. The sun highsted up in the east more butyfuller ;han i ever saw her before, (if mi memry serves me rite, and i think she does. ) ' It waz a fust rate day for agrikultur, or enny other nan, A puss ov 30 dollars waz trotted for, by sum 2 year ,ld colts. ,.                  .    44:      JOSH B1rTWGS. This rase did not attract much affection, on account ov the time being so slow. Time, 2 m nTiits and 38 seconds. FOERTH DAY. This waz far 3 or 4 years old, who hadn't never beat 2.25. Thare waz 26 entrys; they couldn't. aul trot tew once, so they took turns. This rase waz won after a bitter contest, by Pete Tucker's colt He waz-imnmediately offered a thousand dollars and a fust-rate farm, well-stocked, for the colt, by three dif- ferepnt agrikultural men, but with a grate deal ov in- dignant good sense, he skorned to stoop so low. Pete Tucker, and his whole family, are aul boss. F'1IFTH DAY. It rained agin like thunder and lightning, and the day waz spent in betting on the weight ov bosses. Sevral good hoss-swops waz also did. One man swopped two bosses fur one; this struck me as a devilish good thing, but everyboddy else said it waz soft At the end ov the fifth day i cum away. I got so full ov hoss, that ever since when i laff i kant keep from whinnering. The fare waz kept up for 10 daze; and sum red hot time waz made.   * GREAT AGRIKULTURAL HOSS-TROT.    45 I think 2 minnits and 10 sekunds waz made, (if my memtry serves me rite, and i think she duz.) I forgot tew say that thare was two yoke ov oxens ,oa the ground, beside sevral yokes ov sheep and a pile ov carrots, and some worsted work, but Ithey didn't seem to attrakt enny simpathy.  ' The people hanker fur pure agrikultural hoss-trots.   XL JOSIf BTTjTjTNGS DEFINES HS POSITION. DEAR WORLD : I got yure letter by acksident, and reply verry mutch az follers: I am a black Republican, with white antycedents. I alwus waz agin slavery ov enny kind; not be- kause it was constitutional, but bekause it waz un-' godly. I don't beleave the best judges ov color kan pick out a negro's soul in the Kingdom ov Heaven.  I believe in the doktrine ov secession-if i don't like my home, and am 21, i have a rite tew go oph, but i haint got enny rite tew take the old man's farm or hiz tin-ware with me. I am in favor ov being made Post-master in our city, but i am abotit the only man that iz, which speaks well for the disinterestedness ov our citizens. I am also in favor ov short stories, when a man haint got mutch tew say. Yours, tenderly, JOSH BILTINGS.   XII. COLD PIECES. IT don't appear tew me that envy kan, pay well, for those whom we envy most are alwus envying somebody else. Hope often cheats us, but yet how eazy it is tew forgiv the sassy jade. Men ov talents kan be criticised, but a genius kant,--criticism is a mere string and plummet,-the eagle roosts too hi for tape lines. Mi idee ov fust-rate poetry iz that kind that reads. just exactly az I should have wrote it. Yu kant phool a wise man with praise that aint true.  Persekution will make even kanada thissells grow. If you trade with a Yankee, steal hiz jack-knife fust; for if he. gits tew whitling, yu are gone in spite of thunder. Passioi makes more mistakes than ignorance duz.   48       JOSH: BTTT.,TlGS. Fools don't kno their strength; if they did, they would keep still. Buty iz a dangerous gift; for it is seldum accom- panied with much virtue, energy, or wisdum. - Most ennyboddy kan slide down hill: thare iz only now and then one who can slide up hill A man may be a very good judge ov a county court, and yet be a very poor judge ov himself What a cumfort it iz tew be pittyed by a 200- *+   thousand-dollar friend! tew be told that better daze are coming  that perseverance will overkum all obstaklesl such a warm friend iz just about az much use to you 'az a painted sun, on a garden wall, would be to ripen sass with, in a cloudy day. One ov mi ideas ov a perfect gentleman iz, the man who is eazy to please. I kno ov no love, that is so much love, and nothing else, az the love ov"a father for a daughter. I love the old primeval forests. I love them be- kause they kant be cut up tew enny advantage into village lots. I- hav got a dreadful poor memory, and think I aint sorry for it, for mi experiences in life, thus far,    COLD PIECES.        49 have 2 thirds ov them been more pleasant tew forgit than tew remember Tru happiness seems tew consist in wanting awl that we kan enjoy, and then gitting awl we want. I don't belief in total abstinence, enny more than I belief in total blindness, but I do belief in the reasonable gratification ov awl the desires that God haz given us.  Politeness iz dreadful simple if yu take the cer- emony out ov it, but, in sifting out the ceremony, yu will often sift out the politeness. The most selfish persons I hav ever known hav been those who are alwus professing grate luv for others. Prudery iz virtue, always willing to be tempted. Thare iz nothing that will hu a man tew a sharp point like adversity,-adversity iz the hunger ov the soul. Gold iz the standard ov value, but wisdum iz the standard ov perfekshun; united, they  are the standlard-bearers ov the world. ../   XTII "ETTER FROM JOSH BTLLTNGS. MY DEAR PRESS: lru ask me "how i like the lekturing bizzness," and'" what success i hav met with," and " what iz the tru natur ov the lektur i hav bin dispensing?" Briefly thus i reply: Two years ago I jined the band ov lekturin mar- ters, and hav " tramp'd-'tramp'd 1t ever sinse, and az near az i kan rekolekt now, i think i kant tell. Mi lektur iz an attempt tew be comick. Humor iz hybrid, and iz a nice cross between sense and nonsense. I don't think it haz ever bin well defined: it iz like the smell ov a flower, hard tew diskribe. Thare iz just about az mutch real humor in the best ov geniuses az thare iz juise in a lemmon;: one good squeeze takes it out, and thare iz nothing but seeds and skin lefLt It soon bekums hackney'd, and its authors live prekanously for about 3 years on the fust 6 months- ,e    , A LEWTER FBOM JOSH BILLINGS.    1       v their reputashun, and then go in their holes and nly cumn out onst in a while to sun themselfs and be tupid. I hav known men tew tell 4 good storys, and then pile them awl bi telling one poor one . ir Thare iz nothing the world iz so slow to applaud  tz success, and nothing they are so smart at dis- overing az a failure, Match ova humnorist's success depends upon the 5hysick ov hiz aujence: a man who haz the dispep- fhee fust rate laffs under protest, but if liz dinner :ides easy you kan tickle him with a skoop-shovel. Humor sometimes lurks in the way a thing iz ced,    I and i hav seen men who carried their fun in the wrinkles ov their face.                .  Nonsense ain't humor, it iz only a jest. Humor must hav sum truth in it, and a good deal don't hurt it. I have seen a fust rait story spilte in being told, and i hav seen a poor story so well told, that if the man had applied for it he could hav had it pattent- ed and no questions asked. If an aujence refuse tew be tickled, yu might az well talk tew a grave-yard in the ded ov winter; but if yu git them oust mellow yu kan then stick yure thum into them anywhare.   52       JOSH BTT TNGS. But mi opinyun now iz that thare ain't no rule for success with a comick lekltur. A cold-blooded philosphiclk lektur is just az eazy az turning a grinstone: the aujence are obliged tew hold their hatchets on, and they are sure tew git ground out after a while : but you kant tell a man when tew laff; he knows what pleazes him, just az well azhe knows what eats good; yu kant play a burnt slapjack, nor one that ain't well dun, onto him. Thar ain't nothing more straining tew a humorist than tew have tew stop and explane a joke. I hav just got hum  from Boston: i put 2 spokes into the hub at Tremont Temple the two fust nights in Febuary: Ilektured 15 nights in Massa- chewsetts.  I don't kno whether it waz a success or not: awl i kno iz i felt good myself. Hu'murous lekturs, without the aid ov canvass or pantomime, are tuff tew do. I think now i shall either git up a philosophicall lektur on the culler ov the Red Sea, or the hump ov the cammel's back, or quit lekturing. I kan steal a good philospophicall lektur out ov sum library; but these cussed humurous lekturs hav so mutch originalin them (or ought to hav) that yu   A LETTE'1R FROM JOSH BTTLTN8S.   53 kantkalkulate on them for certain-they are like twins, they kant be had nor they kant be stopped - Upon the whole, az near az i kan guess, mi opin- yun iz that humor iz a natral dissease, that a man kant ketch nor kant giv tew ennyboddy else. Is              .*   / XXTV. WISDUM CtHUNCKS. THE best time ov the moon to plant beans iz when -the grownd iz aul rite. Slovens are always the fust tew caul our atten- shun tew their slovenness, by their exkewses for it. Don't tawk so mutch, my friend I Yu don't kno but little, and ort tew be saving ov it. Book critiks shood be treeted az the farmers do their swine-rung, and then turned out to critysize. The man with little branes, and the man with lit- tle ammunishun, shood hunt alike; they shood take ame a good -while, and then always shut, into a flock  Avoyd single burds. Deer reeder, don't find fawlt with an awthur who makes yu laff; it is no more an evidence -of week- ness to laff than it iz ov strength tew look mad. Menny ov the enormittys ov life have bin commit- ted in the name ov religun--enormittys that make h-l blossom like the rose.   WISDUN CHUNKS.         5 Bewty never dies; it iz like truth; they both hav an immortality sumwhare. I hav got a fust rate opinyun ov resignashun, but i don't think enny man iz in dewty bound to thank the Lord every time sum careless cuss steps on hiz soar tow. We hear a grate deel about progresshun, and the importunse ov it, but i am just big phool enuff to think that 8 or 10 ov the new things are either false, or are old things spiled bi altering. What mankind stand most in need ov, just now, is simplissity. Men judge each other bi their sulsess, not bi their undertakings; but the Lord judges bi the undertak- ing, not bi the suksess. Thare iz a grate deel more timidity among men ' than thare iz temerity; one iz the attribute ov little- ness, and the other ov grateness. Thebest kind ov p-rfewi  for the person, that i know ov, iz cleennaess. Truth iz radicul; fickshud iz consurvativ. What a man must hav, he kan most ginnerally git. .   - 56      JOSH BILLINDGS Thare iz no such thing az clozing our ize to the fakt that tilting skirts enable us to see a good deel more ov fashunable sosiety.- Sudden ritches don't often improve ennybody. Vertchew walks without help, but vice goes on crutches. Thare iz one advantage in being poor: thare ain't no danger ov mistaking flattery for praze. Bobtaled peekox don't travel mutch on their pride. Take the axidents out ov this life, and how menny men iz thare who wood snkseed or fale? Friendship iz a mirror which we hold up tew lith- ers, tew see ourselfs in. Deep thinkers laff with their mowth. A man iz a phool just in proporshun az he iz known better bi sumboddy else than he knows him- self Novelty iz a good deel like a kitten's'tale, soon played out The world owes most ov its refinement tu 2 verry difrunt things-the Bible, and the looking-glass.'   WISDUM  CHUNKS.            7 Trew critysism  consists in giving a man credit for the good things he sez, and not cussin him      for the good things he don't say. h  I .        .t t   *  ^    XV. BILLIARDS. EVRYBODDY seems tew be gitting crazy over a new game, which haz jist bin diskovered, called billyards. It iz played on the top ov a tabel which iz a little longer than it iz square, and the game seems tew kon- sist in pushing sum round red bawls agin sum round white bawls, until they drop into sum little pudding L bags which are hung unto the outside ov the tabel. It takes 2 men tew play the game, but 4 or 5 can look on. They take oph their coats, and stand clus up to the tabel, with a short piece ov a fishpole in their hands, which has a -chalk mark onto the end ov it. Then one begins, by giving one ov the bawls a punch in the belly, which sends it agin the next one's belly, and so on, till the other fellow's turn fur punching comes on. But yu ought tew see the game; ;it kant be delin- eated bi words. One feller generally beats the- other feller, and then he pays the landlord ov the consarn 25 cents fur the   59 BILIaA8RDS.  privilege ov itting beat, and buys sum gin, with lemonade in it, and aul hands drink. Then 2 more takes bolt ov the fishpoles, and they punch fur a spell, and so it goes on till 2 o'clock in the  morning; then each goes humn, having enjoyed the exercise, a little drunk perhaps; but the muscles in their breast are so expanded that they can't ketch the consumption nor the smaul pox; This iz billyards                          .   XVJL JOSH BTT,T!NGS "RIZES.' GEENTLE MEN AND MSTER CHATIRIAN:- I rise with grate diffidence fur the fust time in mi life, tew address an impromptew assemblage. What i can say iz instant, and i kant alter it; i kant sit doun, or stand up, and studdy a thing out, enny more than i kan sit doun and thinkl how tew lift a ton. We have met here just fur fun; andi beleaf that aul things, including truth, hav a fun redikilous side tew them, and i filly beleaf, that while Satan, with con- sumate skill, fills hiz ranks bi the arts ov seduction, virtue should resort tew the same means. I beleaf in sugar-coated pills, and. i beleaf that virtue and wisdom kan be smuggled into a man's soul bi a good natured proverb, better and deeper than to be mor- ticed into it with a wormwood mallet and chisel We hav met tew celebrate the birth-day ova Sunday newspaper; the child iz a year old and iz growingnice- ly. Sum people doubt the propriety ov Sunday news- papers; they seem tew think that the Sabbath waz made only fur the acts ov sectarian worship, but i be-  *   ,' -  * M fore a iterary association s O t iin o  "EMrf   '         *-! J:O sl *ltf Fol iterar asoitono h itzn fa ethorkatw.-e py   r !   JOSH BITTITNGS. 1 leaf that religion was never designed az a bizness, but only tew regulate and correct bizzness with,-I should az soon think ov tunelling Hoosick Mounting bi pray- er,-when a people devote aul their time tew religion, superstition and bigotry are sure tew prevale. Man iz the only thing created with power tew laff; birds and flowers can almost dew it, and dogs would like tew. Mules smile fwith their heels. Fun waz made fur the nmillion, ethicks fur the few, and the man who kan invent a generous and healthy sauce tew enliven a dish ov biled greens with, iz a Christian. Fun may never have furnished a splendid dinner, but it has helped swaller menny a poor one. "Six days shalt thou labor, and on the seventh rest,"--thare iz no laber in fun, and a Sunday news- paper does aul its work on Saturday; I had rather tend one wedding than a dozen fune- rals; and a birth, even if it aint ennything more than the hatching ov a duck's eg, iz alwus another suckcess. Life iz short, and that iz one grate reason whi it ought alwus tew be cheerful, and i fully beloaf, that when Gabrel blows hiz horn, the first ones that will rise, will ware a smile on their faces. Judas betrayed with a laff, and a kiss, but the fun ov the thing waz, he went oph and hung hisself.   62     JOSBE BILLTNGS A RIZES." *He that kant laff iz tew be pityed, and him that wont laff iz tew be feared. I am clean thru. This iz my -maiden speech, and i will bet 10 dollars that i won't never run the risk ov doing it agin Adew.   XV11. BTLTNGS ON PILLS. P'OaEEPSn, Jan. ls, 1867. DEAR DORTE1 BONESETT: Thru the politeness ov Mr. John Smith. i cium in possession ov yure valuabel letter, at about 9 o'clock night before last, in which yu offer me 10 dollars for a poultiss. I hav had a fair chance to use yure pills upon several important occasions, and can sware posative- ly that they kan beat enny pills ov their size i ever contended with. Underneath this letter yu will find a poultiss which i think will draw. If yu see fit to use it, yu kan emit the 10 dollars by mail, at our risk. In the mean time, bet freely than i am yure hum- ble servant, d o       JOSH BILLINGS. POULTISS . Barnabass Bonesett, M. D., (mutch dokter,) chuck full ov faith, bloze his horn, and bi these presents   ":         POULTISS. duz blo hiz horn about hiz "Lightning Express and Serio-Sensation pills " a cumfert and a joy to man. Theze pills are of rutes-rutey, and kost the Au- thor 4: years in the wilderness, besides sleepless nights, and anxious days, tew git them down to a spot, without blemish and filled with fun. These pills will kure defftness, dipthery and dan- druff-are good for baldness, bronkreeters and bak- sliding-are sertin tew heal hedake, hifalutin, and  hangnails-will remove warts, windgauls and wens -destroy  awl longings, lassitudes, laziness-will soothe the sorrowful, cam the crazy, and kure a common, sized fit in 2 minnits. They are doss packed- in little round boxes, and each little box kontains 2 dozen and 2, or no sail. Each box iz dun up in a trakt, which sez that they are az sure to cure, az lightning iz tew strike what it starts for. On the top ov the box iz a full sized painting ov the Author, with a grub hoe in one hand, and a whole parsell ov roots in the other-with a napsack on -hiz back, and mountains in the distance, tew which he iz pinting with the grub hoe-them iz the mountains whare he gits the rutes. On the top ov each little round box, iz these words, in a forrin tung, "tHocus pocus, quod constal-   BILLTNGS ON PILLS. "h ich being biled down, means, "2urely vege- ,us Which  For sum more partikulars, cummane with the autho Signed)  BANA    BONESETT, M. D. (Signed)  BARNABA   XVIII. JOSE IN SARATOGA. SARATOGA, Sept. 8, 1867. DEAR WXERWTy :-Don't think I am going to ruin, don't think i am totaly spilte, bekauze yu happen to hear from me at this grate drinking place. I am here on urgent and melankolly bizzness, looking for mi Newfoundland pup, not quite 5 months old yet, that I lost lately. Saratogy never appeared tew me so free from white swellings az it duz now. I haint seen a dozen people ov the ballon purswashion, but almost evry one i meets aclts just az tho they had sum good common sense, and had brought enuff along with them to last while they staid. Shoddy & Petroleus hav gone tew Europe, to as- tonish Paris with their paste diamonds and fire gilt tamelys. Thare is about 4 thousand strangers here just now, and the liberal way that they invest in the kathar. ticks ov the situation iz suggestive. Yesterday i  saw a bride and her new feller at Con- gress Spring. She waz a rosy and a roomy bride. He ,waz bilt to run in shallow water, rather a light draft chap, i thought; but he took 9 consekuiff   JOSH BTITTNGS.       67 glasses without flinching, and, i think, would have held one more, He looked a hundred pounds bigger. I waz filled with horror at the sight, but soon had aal mi fears soothed, when i saw almost everybody present wash themsels internally with five or six tumblers full ov this liquid salts and perilash. Congress Hall iz being rebuilt with bricks on the old ground, and iz at least 15 rods front on Broadway,. with 2 wings az menny rods deep, and will cost 400 thousand dollars, and will feed, sleep, and physick one thousand festive sons and daughters at oust. Evry house here, except the churches, iz a board- ing house; aul the femail seminiaries, and akademys of the arts and sciences, fill up their summer vaka- tions with spring-water pupils. The great tiger ov the place iz the hi rock spring; this now flows over its conical summit, something that it haz not done before for 300 years, and besides being a good artickle ov physick, is probably the greatest natral curiousness this side ov the temple of Solomon, his 500 wives and 300 good-looking collat- erals inkluded. Take the kathartics out ov Saratogy, and thare wouldn't be ennything left ov deep interest, but a pale yeller, sandy sile, that haint got moral strength enuff in it tew hold   a fense-post up straight, unless the hole waz well manured first.    68       JOSH BTTLNGaS. But, with some 10 or 15 ov theze mineral springs, that will kure ennything, from a broken heart tew the spring halt-water the most sparkling-water that biles and bubbles, without money, and without even stamps, and has biled ever since Cain waz a babe--I say, with such a legacy, Saratogy iz to- day the surest place on the breast ov the earth to git a good loose drink. My stay here will necessarily be small; i kant git no track ov mi Newfoundland pup, with one white foot and a star in his forehead; and bizzness before drinking being one ov mi best holts, i shall leave here before long for Montreal or Saint Lewis, in search ov the dogg. The annual races passed oph with the usual amount- ov burglarys, and pocket-book thieveries, but I was told yesterday, by one ov the first citizens, that yu kan leave a roll ov bank bills (since the races) lying on, the sidewalk, and noboddy would pick it up for the fust two days. I haven't tried this myself, nor don't intend to, for fear thare might be just one slippery cuss left in the place, and one man could raize up a rowl ov bills for me, just as eazy az 40 could. I havn't got munny, nor grit enuff, to indulge in sich moral experiments. The ground, whare the old United States Hotel   JOSH IN SARATOGA.       69 stood, remains kivered with the debris ov that melankolly and hot fire, which reduced tew ashes and old bricks, the most popular and fashionable dry goods emporium in the universe ov America. I have it from Jenkins, (who is here now gitting himself pliable,) that az soon az one or two objection- able partners can be smoked out ov the ring, then the balance ov them will build on the grounds a hotel that will make--Rome howl. The Union and the Clarendon are the two cham- pions now, and both ov them hav a full stummuk ov clean looking, and very decent ackting passengers. Thare iz sum very elaborate rigs here; one that I saw yesterday waz quite "uneac." (I don't know whether this word iz just the thing tew use in this spot, but it sounds big, and strange, and that i awl that I care for.) The rig consisted ov a yello buggy, with a black bugger driving, clothed in drab broadcloth, with bras buttons, and cockade on a plug hat with a velvet belly band around it, and salmon colored gloves, and a 10 foot whip-stork, with a spotted dogg under the front axletree, and 3 bosses in injun file, two blacks, and the one on the lead the color ov cream. Jenkins told me, that they were the only shoddy   70        JOSH BrTTGS. team here, and belonged tew- a young fellow from Melankton 4 corners, in the state ov Conneckticut, whose father has raked in 2 millions, by making beeswax out ov a very little mutton tallow, and a good deal ov injun meal. But it won't do to believe awl that Jenkins sez; he has lied so consekutive for the last 15 years, that hiz front teeth hav awl decayed out. One ov the perennial teeters ov Sarotogy, iz a drove ov tame injuns, with their squaws, and young porpoises, who cum here each drinking season, from the outlines ov Kanada, laiden with braided baskets, bags ov beads, and harmless bows and arrows. Theze people might hav bin good injuns oust, but , each successive porpoise grows paler, and meaner, and if it want for their nastyness, there aint 3 board- ing-school misses in the whole land, with poetry enuff in their bild tew call them "the noble red men ov the forest" The fact ov it iz, thare iz more 'truth than poetry in injuns, and the truth iz, that keyerine whiskey, and other kinds ov civilization, has outflanked them. It requires a grate deal ov good sense tew stand whiskey and civilization A wild injun iz a most magnificent cuss without . doubt, but a tame injun, one with more milk than   JOSH IN SARATOGA.       7-1 nolasses in hiz face, iz almost az near good for no- thing, az a counterfit bill, on the bank ov Newfound- and                    .  Injuns, tew be good and profitable, must live at least 2 thousand miles from ennyboddy else, and always stay at home, and never see a missionary. P S.-I hav just this minnit received a dispatch that thare iz one more nufoundland pupp in Free- hold, New Jersey, this morning than thare waz yesterday at this time, with a fu whte hairs on the end,ov his tail. I shall start immegiately, and if i kan only rescue mi pup before he gits contaminated, I shall be az proud az a rooster. In haste, good bye. JosH BILLINGS.  .    .   XTX SUM   VEGETABEL HSTORY. TDE strawherry is one ov natur's sweet pets. She makes them  worth fifty cents, the fust she makes, and never allows them tew be sold at a mean price.    . The culler ov the strawherry iz like the setting sun under a thin cloud, with a delicate dash of the rain bo in it; its fragrance iz like the breath ov a baby, when it fust begins tew eat wintergreen los- singers; its flavor is like the nektar which an old- fashioned goddess used tew leave in the bottom ov her tumbler, when Jupiter stood treat on Mount Ida. There iz menny breeds ov this delightful vegeta- ble, but not a mean one in the whole lot. I  think i have stole them, laying around loose, without enny pedigree, in sumboddy's tall grass,  when I waz a lazy schoolboy, that eat dredful easy, without enny white sugar on them, and even a bug occasionally mixed with them in the hurry of the mo- ment. Cherrys are good, but they are too mutch like sucking a marble, with a handle tew it. Peaches   SUM VEGATABEL HSTORY.     73 are good, if yu don't git enny ov the pin-feathers into yure lips. Watermelons will suit ennyboddy who iz satisfied with half-sweetened drink; but the man who can eat strawherrys, besprinkled with crushed shuggar, and besmattered with sweet cream (at sumboddy else's expense), and not lay hiz hand on hiz stummuk, and thank the author ov strawher-- rys and stummuks, and the phellow who pays for the strawherrys, iz a man with a worn-out conscience -a man whose mouth tastes like a hole in the ground, that don't care what goes down it. Kokernuts grow up in the air, in a hot climate way over the ocean, about 80 feet from the ground -on the top Ov a tree. They are generally picked bi the monkeys in that laborhood, who throw them at the natives, in ex- :hange for the stones that the natives heave at the nonkeys. They grow az a negro's head duz, with a good Leal ov skull tew them. A kokernut, after it haz bin scalpt, resembles an ld ten pin ball, only a little more round one way han tuther. On the end ov the nut toward you iz 2 eyes, fast sleep. The kokernut iz opened bi breaking the rull and this brings them tew their milk.   74      - JOSH BILLINGS. The milk in the kokernut haz never bin explained yet, and the reazon iz, becauze noboddy has ever asked me tew do it. Whenever. the philosophers "giv it up," i shall reply tew the konundrum. Az an artikle ov diet, the koker iz about on a level with the french raw turnip, and iz az hard tew digest az one ov Secretary Seward's letters ov State. Biled koker might possibly be good, if it warnt a grate deal better when it waz raw; and raw koker- nuts iz only good for children and younag grey- hounds tew eat, whose stummuks are like a nutmeg grater. The only real good thing about this forrin nut iz its skull; they kan be cut into 2, and made into drinking kups, and i must konfess, they do look kind, when laid on a clean flatt stun in the side ov a meadow spring; but i kant drink out ov them my- self, without thinking that if they hadn't been cut in 2, what a kapital thing they would be tew bild a young darkey to. But this iz only a phoolish noshun ov mine, and probably it couldn't be did enny how. ' It iz now about 8 or eleven years, since folks begun tew hanker after the Tomater. About that   SUM VEGATABLE HSTORY.      75 time, sum doktor ov pills, dissekted one ov theze vagrant vegetabels, and diskovered sum doktor stuff in them. Az soon az folks found out they waz fisick, they begun tew be verry sweet on the tomater. At that time they waz in the habit ov growing in sly places, whare they want afraid, over behind stone walls, amung broken jugs, ded kats, and old injun-rubber boots, for peopel wouldn't let them grow in gardins enny more than they would a kana- day thissell.  They were vagabond weeds, and even a woods hogg wouldn't eat one ov the berrys that grew on them; enny quicker than he would a bawl ov red stocking yarn. But it waz decided that there waz sum pills in them, and they were putt tu nuss, in pots, and vases, and lived on the phatt ov the land, in hott houses, along side ov tiger lilys, and rozes ov Sharon. It took most folks about 18 months ov persever- ance and sea sickness, tew git the tomater to go quietly down, and now, from a vile weed, more smelly than. a deseased klam, the tomatow haz ac- tually got to be more honorabel than a bukwheat slapjack, or even a punkin pie. This shows what love and affekshun will do.    76        JOSH BLLINGS.  I haven't -enny doubt that if Professor Ratsbane would say profeshionally, that wasps nests waz good to make a mustash grow black, half the men in the kuntry would git a wasp and go into the nest bizzness. I don't beleave a tomater will keep a man enny more helthy than red clover will, but i am just like evry body else, i wanted tew git sum better than i waz, and i went to skool to the tomato, and have got learnt how tew eat them, if they are filled with salt and pepper, and soaked well in good sider vinegar. I hav seen folks pick them oph from the vines in the gardin, and eat them right down alive; i would az soon undertake tew eat a; handful ov putty. But tomatoze hav worked themselfs up to a nec.es- sary, and i am the last man to injure their reputa- shun, for i beleave an innocent humbugg iz just az mutch right tew win, (if-they kan) az any other man. There iz one thing I do hope, and that iz that nobody will undertake tew make kastor ile one ov the luxurys until after i am dead, for kastor ile and bed buggs iz 2    things that i solemlv sware i won't hav, if they git to be ever so/fashinable.   XX. JOSH PtEPJJ7TZ1j T'EW CORRESPONDENTS. Mastiff.-I kant tell yu the best kind ov a dogg tew buy; but for a man of limited means, i think the wodden dogg iz the most cheapest. They are the less liabel tew git out ov repare, and ain't awl the time following folks oph. They kant wag their tales, but that kan be remydied by having them made without enny. They are not apt tew be noizy in the night; but if ya want one tew finghten away the robbers, awl yu hav got tew dew iz tew hav one made with the bark on. Walton.--Yu are right about it; the bull-head aint a game fish, although they die hard. I kant giv yu enny posatiff rule to be a game fisher. Pa- shunce iz a good thing tew hav. I would advise yu to practiss- for the fust year, in a tan vat, with a leather line, and a skillet handle for a fish hook; yu may not ketch mutch fish, but yu will learn how tew twitch butifully. Davenport.-I beleave in the 'dolktrin ov spiritual- ism-that iz, i beleave it iz a smart doktrimn. A man haz tew hav a United States juggler's license now  78        JOSH BJTTT GSI before he kan beleave "in the doktrin. I beleave in raps on the table, but when i hear them cum pretty loud and fast i make up mi mind that sumboddy iz gitting badly eukered. I don't rekolekt ov' but one communikashun between spirits that iz menshuned in the Bible, and that took place between Lazarus and another gentleman. It iz pleasant to know that one ov these spirits waz a pure one, and that he had awl the advantage (ov the other gentleman) in the argument, and in the posishun. ' Eazell.--I kant tell yu who painted the Greek Slave; she aint on exhibishun. They are gitting the fine arts almost perfeck now-a-days. One feller in Pittsburg-haz painted a sorrell hors so per- fekly that the hair awl cum oph from the hors. And another fellar haz just finished a -Durham cow that he had salted down last fall for family use. And another artiss haz got a Nufoundland pupp in hiz studio reddy-that he haz bin offered 10 dollars for bi the owner, ind no questions asked. Parent.--I kant tell yu the best way tew bring up a boy; but, if i had one that didn't lie well enuff tew suit me, i think now i would set him tew tend- ing a dri goods store. Probably, one ov the best ways to bring up a boy in the way he should go, iz tew travel that woy ourselfs, once in a while. Still thare aint no sure thing; I have seen them brought   josH BILLINGS. ap az kerful az a lappdog, and then go tew the devil jist az soon az they coucl strike the right track. And then agin, i hay saw them cum out ov sumbod- dy's gutter and wash up like a dimond. Raising boys iz a good deal like raising colts ; if yu don't git more than one out ov ten that iz a fast one, yu are dewing fust rate. A grate menny men hanker for a boy tew transmit their reputashun to   i konsider t  his about az risky az the hen's egg bizzness; thare iz always sum chances agin it-one iz, that the eggs may be spilte before they start for market, and another iz, they may git busted in carrying.  .T   "ST O  HOUSEN TEW LET. FUR NISIED AND    NFURNISHED. Real Estate Agent and roperty Broker. aumber One-Gothick cottage, (with chimbleys, and windo blinds attached,)and water, (in the suller,) lokated for the present on the south-east angle ov Soap and Myrtle streets; house kontains a bay wind; would suit a lawyer or a blacksmith. Rent, for the summer months, (including the good will ov the na- berhood) $4,500. No children and doggs aloud on the premises. Cards, tew view the hous, kLan be obtained ov the agent (admitting a gentleman and 2 ladys) for the trifling sumov 5 dollars. N. B.--This hous waz taken yesterday, and customers are for. bid tew bother the agent bi inquiring about it. umbfer wo--Will be tew rent in a fu daze; the hous is being -put in perfeek order bi being white. washed, and the floor sprinkled with sum sand   HOUSES TEW LETT.       81 This hous is a cross ov the Ionian & Dorick style, waz built when lumber waz skarse, and iz almitey hard finished throughout, rat-holes awl plugged up, and a bottle ov bed bugg pizen, neatly labeled, and hung up in each room. To a tenant who kan bring testimony, and a good pedigree, this hous would be leased for a term ov 30 or 40 years, for about 2,500 hundred dollars a year, the tenant tew pay the taxes, and remove the mortgages now on the prem-. ises, and put in the gass, and git the hous insured for 6,000 dollars, and assign the polisy tew the agent az collatteral security for the faithful performanse ov the kontrakt. N. B.-If thare iz enny things else that i hav forgot tew menshun about the terms, the tenant kan hav them inserted, when the papers are drawed up, without extra charge. Number Three-Iz kompletely furnished with gass fixtures and meether, and ile cloth in the front hall, and pegs in the closets, and back verandy. This delightful property iz now occupied bi a phisicianl- (" whose sands ov life hav about run out,") and sum ov the rent would be took in boarding the phisician (" whose sand iz about run thru,") and hiz wife, and wife's oldest sister, and her unkle, and the 9 chil-  dren, who are awl lite eaters, havin bin k ept for the laste 6 months on sperm kandle soup. Tew a ten-   82       JOSH BRTTrNGS. ant who could loan the phisician $1,500 or two thousand dollars, and take. a first mortgage on the furniture in the hous, a liberal rent would be named, payable quarterly in advanse. P. S.-fust cumJ fust git. Nurmber Four-Iz the property ov a two-million- aire, who iz about going tew Urope with hiz entire family, tew spend sum munny. This hous haz one ov Chickering's 10 oktave, iron-frame, overstrung bass, rosewood, round kornered, pearl keyed, pian- ners, built expressly for the owner bi Mr. Chicker- ing himself, after the design ov the pantheon in Rome, (Italy,) and also haz a hole cut thru the roof, from which the North star kan be distinktly seen with the naked eye. Rent iz no objeck-tew a small family ov one or two persons, this hous could be had, if applied for within 2 daze, at the nominal prise ov 20,000 dollars a month, reckoning 26 workinag days' tew the month- Also-A superb boss ov a black culler, warranted 16 hands hi, ov grate enduranse, tew stand without tieing, and kan trot in 2:53; would make a good card for a hearse boss.     XXII. LAUGHING. IT never haz been proved, that enny ov the animal kreation hav attempted tew laff, (we are quite certain that none hav secceded;) thus this deliteful episode and pleasant power appears tew be entirely within the province ov humans. It ~iz the language ov infancy--the eloquense ov   childhood,-and the power tew laff is the power to be happy. It isbe- comring tew  awl ages and conditions; and (with the very few exceptions, sakred tew sorrow) an honest, hearty laff iz always agreeable and in order. It iz an index ov karakter, and betrays sooner than words.-Laffing keeps oph sickness, and haz con- quered az menny diseases az ever pills have, and at mutch less expense---It makes flesh, and keeps it in 'its place.-It drives aay weariness and brings a dream ov sweetness tew the sleeper.-It never iz covetous.---It ackomupanys charity, and iz the hand- maid ov honesty.-It disarms revenge, humbles pride, and iz the talisman ov kontentment-Sum have kalled it a weakness-a substitute for thought,   84        JOSH BTLJTNGS. but really it strengthens wit, and adorns wisdum, invigorates the mind, gives language ease; and expreshun elegance.-It holds the mirror up tew beauty; it strengthens modesty, and makes virtue heavenly. It iz the light ov life; without it we should be but animated ghosts. It challenges fear, hides'sorrow, weakens despair, and carries haff ov poverty's bundles.-It costs nothing, comes at the call, and leaves a brite spot behind.-It iz the only index ov gladness, and the only buty that time kanndteffase.--It never grows old; it reaches from the cradle clear tew the grave. Without it, love would be no pashun, and fruition would show no joy.-It iz the fast and the last sunshine that visits the heart; it was the warm   welkum  ov Eden's lovers, and was the only capital that sin left them tew begin bizzness with outside the Garden ov Par- dise. ,e   XXTTT. LYING. As easy az it iz, to lie, I am astonished that thare are so few engaged in the bizzness, and that so few fust-rate lies are ever told. I am not prepared to say how mutch real sin thare iz in what iz kalled a light-colored lie, that haz no maliss or evil result in it, but I have alwus notised that the heft ov mankind love to excel in awl they undertake, and I can't tell how long a man would be willing to tell white lies for fun when he might be turning an honest penny for himself by telling black ones. Men don't generally bekum drunkards by confin. ning themselfs stricktly tew sweet sider. Lieing is the lowest grade of sin,-it is more cow- ardly than stealing, bekause thare is less risk in it -it is more demoralising than burglary, bekause there is no cure for it,-it is more dangerous than' swareing, bekause swareing don't hurt enny boddy else--it waz the fust sin committed, bekause it was the easiest and most natral, and it will probably be   86        JOSH BTTrTNGS. the last one committed, bekause'no man ever gits so poor and degraded but what he kan tell quite a    i respectabel lie. Lieing is said tew be constitushionall in sum folks,--so is the itch constitushionall, because folks hang around whare it is, and won't doktor for it after they git caught by it. TFinally-I might as well own it-I hav told a few very fair lies myself, but i kant reckollect ov one that I feel proud ov now. o          \   XXTV. PERKUSSION CAPS. I HOLD that a man has jist as mutch rite tew spel a. ord as it is pronounsed, as he has tew pronounse it ie way it aint spelt. Sticking up our nose don't prove enny thing, for he most sensitiff person in the world, when he is way from his kittles, is a bone biler. But fu sights, in this life, are more sublime and )athetick, than tew see a poor, but virtuous yung nan, full ov christian fortitude, struggling with a nustatch. Common sense is most ginnerally dispised bi those who haint got it. If I was asked which was the best way, in these days ov temptashun, tew bring up a boy, i should say-bring him up the back way. It don't require enny edukashun tew tell the truth, but tew lie well dus.   88       PERKUSSIO:N CAPS. We are told " that an honest man is the noblest work ov God "--but the demand for the work has been so limited, that i hav thought a large share ov the fust edishun must still be -in the author's hands. /Men don't seem never tew git tired ov talking about themselfs, but i hav heard them  when i thought they showed signs ov weekness. If yu would make yurself agreeable, wherever yu go, listen tew the grivences'ov others, but never relate yure own, Sum folks are always trieing tew see thru a mill- stone edgeways, when, if they would only turn it over on the flat side, they could look rite thru the hole. Buty is like a ranebow-full ov promis, but short lived. It aint best tu swop with yure relashuns, unless yu kan afford tew giv them the butt end ov the trade. Amung the blu laws ov Konnekticut, (which are now obsolute,) are this--"No man shall chaw tur- bakker on Sunday, unless he swallers the spit." Also, "No 'yung woman shal hav a rite tew git   JOSH BTTITiYmGS.  marrid, who kant make a donut that will keep at least one year, without loseing its twist I beleave in the universal salvashun ov men, but I want tew pick the men. I beleave in suggar coated pills--I also belave that virtue and wisdum kan be smuggled\ into a man's soul bi a gpod natured proverb, better and deeper than tew be mortised into it with 'a worm- wood mallet and chissell. The pure don't gro old enny more than a moun- tain spring dus. I don't think thare is enny rule for long life. I hav inown men tew die before they was 40, from the efSk ov a vegatabel. diet, and i hav known others tew liv 75 years on salt pork and sider brandy, and then quit the pork on akount ov their helths, and live 15 years longer on the sider brandy alone , Give me liberty or giv medeth-butovthe 2 I prefer the liberty. As in a game ov cards, so in the game ov life, we must play what is dealt tew us, aa i the glory con- si3ts, not so match in winning, as in playing a poor hand well.   90        PERBKUSSION CAPS, The time tew pray is not when we are in a tight spot, but jist as soon as we git out ov it. "The Lord tempers the wind to the shorn lamb," but it is man's bissiness tew see that he don't shear the lamb tew cluss. G             ;                   .   XXV. ONE WEEK FROM MY DIAREE.  MoNDAoe-- ad suckers for breakfast. Suckers and sassagis are the 2 luxuries ov life; the other luxury iz eazy boots. Answered several letters ov grate moment. TUESDAY.-Awoke with a splendid headache, cauzed by drinking tew -much spring water the evening previously, and going tew bed at 9 o'clock precisely. Breakfasted on the butt end ov a sassige; felt like a dogg. Sett down in my little chamber for reflekshun, and reflekted as lollers : Rekolekted ov hearing a man, on the levee, in Saint Lewis, once say " that the steambote Perary Flower drew less water than any b6te an the Mis- souri." I asked him, "how little she could draw?" After changing sides with hiz chaw ov tobacco, he calmly said, "About 2 barrels." I reflekted what a phool this man made ov himself, and ov me too. WEDNESDAY.-Rekolekted ov asking a man in Minnysota, if beans waz a sure krop in hiz parts.   92     ONE WEEKf FROM MY DIARY. He sed " they waz az certain az a revolver." Reflekt- ed upon the danger ov carrying concealed weapons. Rekolekted again ov being in Nu Hampshire, during a severe sno storm, and innocently enuff re- marked, " that i never see ennything like it," and waz told by one ov the bar-room boarders, " that it want nothing, that he had seen it fall over a thousand feet." "What," sed i, '" a thousand feet on the level 9' "No," said he, "but a thousand feet from on high." I reflekted how eazy it waz for sum folks tew lie, and tell the truth at the same time. THURSDAY.--Rekolekted once more ov being on the Red River, in Arkansaw, and seeing a large piece ov fiame-work, by the side ov the road; en- quired ov a private citizen, who was leading a blind mule by one ov hiz ears, "what the frame-work mought be?"He sed, " it was a blind fiddle, and it took three yoke ov oxen tew draw the bow, and they had tew haw and gee tew change the tune." Refliekted on that passidge in the poeck, which sez "man is fearfully and wonderfully made;" and thought the remark might apply tew fiddles in Ar- kansaw, without spileing the remark. FRIDAY.-Visited mi washwoman, and blowed her up, for sewing ruffles and tucks onto the bottom ov mi drawers.        Josh Billings, upon remonstrating with his washerwoman for sewing'tucks onto the bottom of his drawers, is told that the clothes have only been mixed.--See page 98.   JOSH BITTLNGS.      9 She was thunderstruck at fust, but explained the mystery by saying, " she had sent me a pair, by mis- take, that belonged to .  "X ; I blushed like a biled lobster, and told her she couldn't be too keer- ful about such things; i might hav bin ruined for life. SATURDAY.- Wrote this diaree for the week, from memory, and am satisfied i hav got a good memory. Reflekted upon the vanity ov human wishes, reflekt- ed how often i had wished tew be ritch, and how sel- cldum mi wishes had bin gratified. Resolved, in the futur, not tew wish for ennything until i had it 3 weeks, and see how i liked it. SATURDAY NIGHT, HAF PAST 10.-Dispensed with a new born critick who had tried hard tew be severe on my Book ov Sayings, thusly:-Dear Sir, I have red yure Briticism on mi book, and muss say, it don't cum haf way up tew mi expectations. Yu seem tew hav in a big degree one, essenshall for a bull critick, that is a grate willingness tew damn, but yu lack entirely'another ingredient which is awl im- portant: yu don't know how tew bild a dam. Upon the whole, i am forced tew admit, that you are a poor damn crittick.  Yure Lover, JOSH BILLINGS.   XXVI. AMERTK AN' ARISTOKRASY. VIEWED BY JOSH BTLLTTNGS. POLITICAL ekonomists hav defined an aristokrasy as a power or government in which a privileged few hold dominyun I am not aware that sich a government exists, in a pure form, at the present day among the nashuns ov the earth. But we kant be mistaken in the fackt that even in our own Republick thare are menny kandidates who would luv to participate in the peculiar privileges ov an aristokrasy. We havy divided Amerikan Aristokrasy (jist for fun) into 3 piles-the moneyed, the mackrel, and the pedigree aristokrats. Not having much time few spare, we pitch into them a good deal as follers: The moneyed aristocrats are like certain fine coat- ed animals, worth just what their hides will bring. The mackrels are remarkable for their numbers and the small kapital they dew bizziness on; and   JOSH BTTJTNGS.       95 while arrayed in their false dignity, and straining hard tew cheat us in awl things, are like a drunken man trieing tew walk a krack. The pedigrees hav mutch innosense and little - courage. Content with the glory ov their ancestors, they are satisfied in holding under our noses a grand- father's fossils, and fondly beleaf that the bones make them smell ov greatness. Finally, trieing tew be a fust klass aristokrat in America, just yet, appears tew us tew be almost as flattring an enterprise as climbing a greased pole. Thare is great doubt about our being able tew reach the top, and if we dew succeed (and don't pull the pole up after us) we will soon hav the mortifikashun ov seeing some other sheumaker climbing'up the same pole. MORAL-Don't be an aristokrat if you kan help it.    ^/   XXVII. "OVE. THE only natural feeling the young heart possess- es is love. It is the first good thing the heart dus, and in after life it is often the only good thing it dus. Thare is no posatif virtue in love, and yet it may be the result ov the holyest ov virtues. But thare is, in this life, a vast deal ov Pontoon love, that has no more virtue in it than wooden nut- megs hav. Thare is, "Love undying," that generally lives about as long as uncorked ginger pop dus. Thare is "Love Untold," which is alwus told tew ennyboddy who will listen to it, and is as full ov pathos as a pork and beans nightmare. And thare is "Love at sight," to which I will add Love for 90 days. These are sum ov the different kinds ov love that are denominated pashun, and form much ov the trad- ing capital that lovers do bissness on. There is not much sin in these different styles ov love; they don't seem tew git up tew the dignity ov sin; thare is deception in them without doubt; but   JOSH BILLINGS.       97 the deception is like Costar's celebrated Rat Exter- minator, it won't hurt ennyboddy else but the rats. I am not prepared to say that I would like to see these things dun away with, for sumthing wuss might spring up in the place ov them; they seem tew be necessary in carrying on a trade in- which judgment has to yield to fancy, and fancy is too often forced to yield to nonsense. If we could (enny ov us) have our old courtship written out and' given to us for perusal, we should probably look upon it as we would upon a Chinese comick almanick, unable tew understand the pik- turs and satisfied that the astronomical calculations were never designed for our latitude.  ., . - :  -.:.    SXXVII. TAlE GAME OF YEWKER. THS ill-bred game ov kards is about 27 years old. It was fust discovered by the deck hands on a lake Erie steam Boat, and handed down by them tew posterity in awl its juvenile beauty. It is generally played by 4 persons and owes mutch ov its absorbingness tew the fackt that yu kan talk, and drink, and chaw, and cheat while the game is advancing. I have seen it played on the Hudson River Rail- road, in the smoking cars, with more immaculate skill than ennywhare else. If yu play thare, yu will often hold a hand that will astonish you, quite often 4 queens and a 10 spot, which will inflame you to bate 7 or 8 dollars that it is a good hand tew play poker with; but you will be more astonished when you see the other fel- ler's hand, which invariably consists ov 4 kings and a one spot. Yewker is a mollatto game, and don't compare tew   JOSE BrTarNGS.        99 old sledge in majesty, enny more than the game ov pin does to a square church raffle. I never play yewker. I never would learn how, out ov principle. I was originally created cluss to the Connektikut line, in Nu England, whare the game ov 7 up, or old sledge, was born, and exists now in awl its pristine virginity. I play old sledge, tew this day, in its natiff fierce- ness. But I won't play enny game, if I know my char- akter, whare a jack will take an ace, and a ten spot won t count game. I won't play no such kind ov a game, out ov re- spekt to old Connekticut, mi natiff place.   XXTX. NOW AND TFTT EN IS anshunt days, men, after konsidering an enter- prise, proceeded with energee tew execute it; now they shut up one eye, and " pitch in." In old times, if their judgment sanctioned, they considered the chances; now, they "let her rip.:' Then, they drank moderately ov water and bran- dy; now, they smile aquafortiss, and suk sweet scented turpentine, thru a quill. Then, if circumstancis made it imperativ, they closed their bissiness, by affekting an honarabil com- promise; now, they "cave in," "squeal," or "ab- squat." Then, kontrary opinyuns were okassionally sup- ported with reasonabel wagers; now, every man ' bets his pile," or t" bottom Dollar.' Then, they went a mile in forti-two, with an easy rein; now, in 2 forti, under a strong pull. Then, most familys held from 6 to 10 healthy child- ren, within its hallowed sirkle a radiant mother, and a stalwart sire; now, too oftin a puny father, with un-   JOSH BTITINGS.       101 sertin knees, a romantik madame, with a pale lily at her breast, a wet nuss, 2 Bridgits and a kennel ov sore eyed pups. Thken, they went tew meeting, to hear a docktrin P    ' sermon, and be humbell, before  God; now, they flaunt into holy palaces, and pay out fortunes every- year, to lounge on velvet, and hear the Bible ama- teured, by -a daintee gentleman, who handles their sins as he would a sleeping infant. Then, our halls ov legislatur were filled with hon- est patriots; now, with clever bandits, whose courte- sys dwell upon the tips ov buoyknives, and whose eloquence and arguments are couchant in the cham- ,    bers ov deadly revolvers. Then, we had youths apprenticed. to a honest call, ing, whose indenters were diplomas; now, pale young gentlemen, emulous ov fisick, or the law, who are pendant to the perlews' ov -the courts and col- leges, watching for the falling. ov a crumb. DTlen, we had maidens until they had bin looked upon bi at least 20 summers, and were modest enuff tew pick out a husband from a skore ov earenst and honest men, whoze very eyes had the promis ov bread in them; now, 15 summers make a woman, (or what we are obliged tew take for one, ) and one so ripe too, that he who fust shakes the bush, gits the eager fruit  '        ,   102       NOW AND THEN. Then, our literatur and learning waz drawn from sound philosophee, or quaint proverbs ov sense, and the fu books that prevailed was good; now,evry- boddy writes a book, and evry phool reads it; learn- ing is sterotiped, and wisdom iz only 12 shillings a vollume. Then, industry kreated wants, virtew tempered them, and frugality supplied them; now, luxury haz taken the plase ov industry, pride the plase ov virtew, and extravaganse the plase ov frugality. Then, men ware solisituss about their karakters; now, about their pedigrees. Then, they found health at hum; now, theyhunt for it bi travell. Finally-if our Grand Pops should cum among us with the plans and precepts ov a hundred years ago, we, in our impudence and wickedness, would be caught laffing at them, while they, in virtuous sorrow, would be in tears over us, and thus would be enakted the scenes which alwus ensews when fools and sages meet                   -   XXX. OATS. MUNNY has dun one thing far the world that no thing else could hav did so well-it has developed the phools. The best kind ov advice fur me tew foller is this: "Pay tew the order ov Josh Billings 50 dol- lars and charge mi akount.-John Bureh." I had rather hav 10 Dollars ov this kind ov advice than six hundred in Christian consolashun; there is more sassage in it. Although mankind worship wealth, I will give them credit fur one thing-they seldom mistake it fur brains. Most aul the grate things hav bin did by takinE the chances. Prudence has but one eye, while for- tune has a thousand. If a mai has 2 stummuks and 2 outsides, thar( mighte be sum excuse, fur adding 10 thousand dol- lars more each year tew his pile.   104       JOSRH BILLINGS. I don't read enny boddy else's poetry but Io- mer's, upon the same principle that i alwus drink, when it is just as handy, out ov a spring, instead ov the outlet. a   Treason is one ov them kind ov stains that wash well. If a man has got tew be poor aul his life, I aint sure but it would be sum  munny in his pocket tew be ignorant, Fust class virtu is alwus anxus tew avoid temp- tashun. Yu kant transplant a Yaukee suclcessfully with- out taking up a good deal ov the sile-with the roots. Originality in writing is as diffikult as gitting a fishpole by the side ov a trout brook-aul the good poles hav bin cut long ago. It is easy enuff tew git religion, but tew hold it is what bothers a fellow. A good grip is bet- ter than. rubis-yea! than mutch fine cotten cloth. I enjoy a good laff-one that rushes out ov a man's soul like the breaking up ov a Sunday school; but a laff that cums tew the surface, as the hick-   OATS.         10l ucks cum, or backs out ov a man, like the strug gles ov a chicken choked with a chunk ov hal wet dough, i utterly lament. i' Thare aint no poetry in poverty, but enny nun ber ov feet ov blank verse. ,  . When a fellow knows he is being stared at, i v    makes him act as unnatral as though he wos set ting fur his picktur. I am -called a " broad humorist," and i am gla( oov it: thare is plenty ov narrow humorists in th, country without me. Enny man who will kompell a woman tew make a shirt fur 20 cents, ought tew be filled full o0 fish-hooks and be used for bait tew ketch other sharks with. Silence is one ov the' negativ virtews. '           y At   XXXT. WATERFALLS . I RAT'HlEt like waterfalls- I kant tell why, enny more than I kan tell why I love kastor ile--but kastor ile is good for a lazyness in the system. a I don't like laziness ov no soit-not even in mus- keeters. I want my muskeeters lively. But aul this iz foreign tew mi purposs. I like waterfalls-they are so eazy and natural They attack all the sex. Some they attack with grate fury, while others they approach more like a siege, working up slowly. I saw one yesterday. It want n' bigger than a small French trnup. It had attaked a small woman ov only 9 summers duration. She waz full ov recreation, and when she bounded along the sidewalk the waterfall highsted up and down in an ossillating manner, resembling mutch the i   WATTEFA IlS.      10 sportive terminus ov a bob-tailed lamb, in a grat hurry. The effeck was purely eclectick. I also saw another one pretty soon, which be longed tew a mature matron. She might hav saw 75 summers; her hair wwa white az flour (Perkins "A," worth 15 dollars barrell, delivered); but the waterfall was -black. I asked a bystander how he could account fo: that. He said " it waz younger." I also saw another one pretty soon, which waz thE property ov a gusher, She was about 19 years old, and waz az ripe az a 2 year peach. She swept the streets like a thing of life. Men stopped to gaze az she pazsed, and put in a new chew ov tobacco. Little boys pocketed their marbles in silence. Her waterfall waz about the size ov a corn-basket turned inside out, It waz inklozed in a common skap net, and kiv- ered with'blazing dimonds ov glass. It shone in the frisky sun like the tin dome on ,the Court House, whare the supervizors meet. But i rather like waterfalls.   108       JOSH BTTT;rNGS. It haz bin sed that they would run out, but this i think iz a error, for they don't show no leak yet, In the language of the expiring Canadian, on our northern frontier, I say--"Vive lca Bagag-tale."   CXXXTT. POLITENESS. jl? I HAv looked into the philosophy,ov politenes with grate fierceness, and see the thing in the fo lowin light:  -Ginowine politeness is a nice mixture ov vanit; and good natur, invigerated bi virtue, and chastene bi policy. It will take a man along slikl;y, whose mone; and impudence, and even religion, singly, would g stuck. Nobody can stand, without quailing, before broadside ov ginowine politeness; it will make eve a Pawnee Injun grow limber. It mite not save a man from gitting kicked bi mule, but it would save him from gitting near enuf tew git kicked. Thare is one other compound in ginowine perlit( ness, which gives it terrificlk force, and that is de. erence.   "O        JOSH BTTATNGS. Deference will win oftener than double sixes. If you want tew beat a man out ov his opinyun, let him hav his own way till you cum tfew the forks in the road, then you kan take hinm jist which road you please. I am not prepared tew call deference always a virtue, bekause it may exist, and only be an art, or stratagem. If it is natural, it quite often degenerates into servility, and if artifishall, it merges into friaud, or cunning. Love without deference, is nothing more than a raid. The deference that exists between equals, (altho pleasant tew look upon,) is not alwus flatterin tew think about; lions are necessarily polite tew each other, but when lions bekum  polite tew the lams, then will deference reveal its true sublimity. Thare is 2 kinds of politeness, the ripe, and the too match ripe politeness; a goose has a grate deal ov this last kind ov politeness; i have seen them lower their beds while going into a barn door, that was 18 foot high         JosH BILLINGS. ,             ../ *         *      -  '  '   i XXXTT T DREAMS. IF yu are handsum, cultivate yure boots; if ] are hoamly, hoe yure branes. "Shut Nu Ingland out in the cold 1"-i should soon think ov shutting the cold out ov Nu Englan I luv tu meet an old feller ov 70 on the rod hanging on tu a pare ov trotters. Old fellers! doi give up yure pull, till yure obliged tew. Thare ain't mutch virgin virtchew in this worlh it is purty mutch aul Magdalen. The trew province ov economy is tu see he mutch munny we kan liv the clussest on. The sudden ritch quite often find themselfs in t] same ficks that mullatters are-just above what th( started from, and just belo what they started for. He who draws his experience from the past i   "2        JOSH, BTTLLTNGS. alwus a man, and he who draws his experience from the futur iz always a child. If yu kant git good clothes and eddicashun too, git the clothes. Say "How are ye " tew everyboddy. If yu argy, alwus git beet.            .              .   XXXTV. JOSH CORRESPONDS. Jenins--Yure letter is full ov very foolish ques- tions, but sum ov them are worth answering. I kant tell whether dogs are born with a bob-tail on them, or whether they ain't, but i am inclined tew think they am. I think they am, bekause I never see enny dogs' tails laying around loose, without enny dog to them. But thare is one thing that bothers me too, and that is, i kant see why it aint just as easy for a dog tew be born with a whole tail on him as with a bob piece, when he is about it; still, if the dog has got tew be skant sumwhare, perhaps it is good judgment tew take it oph on the longest end. The more we sarch. these things, Jenkins, the more curerisser they am. Natur don't dew ennything without sum good reason of her own. If she raises a bob-tailed dog, she don't dew it for fun, but for the dog's *Welfair;  w         JoB   'll4       JOSH BTTILTNGS. perhaps the dog, if he had bin borned with a whole tail, might hav had it bit oph by a sheep or sum- thing. So yu see, Jenkins, thare is figureing in aul these things. As i told yu in mi last letter, you must study natur and wisdum more, and then yu won't hav tew ask so menny phoolish questions. A bob-tailed dog aint half so apt tew hav the tiphus fever as a long-tailed dog is-this stands tew reason. A long-tailed dog kan wag more than a bob-tailed dog kan; but wagging ov aul kinds, is about played out.. If i should ever git able tew- keep a dog, i should selekt a bob-tailed one, for two reasons. One is, yu git more dog and less tail; and the other is, thare aint no good place for the boys tew hitch a tin pail onto them behind. I had rather have one bob-tailed dog, if he was ever so small, than tew hav six long-tailed ones, if they was ever so big. I might not be so ritch, but i could invest the other 5 dogs in bank stock, which would be better than nothing. -Thare is one thing, Jenkins, yu, nor no other man ever see, with the naked eye, and that is a long- tailed dog that didn't hav fleas on him.   JOSH CORRESPONDS.    ' 115 If yu want to hang up a dog by the tail, I am reddy tew allow that the long-tailed ones are the handyest-but the best way, ennyhow, to hang a dog, is by the neck. In my next letter tew yu I will tell yu sum more news about dogs, but in, the mean time yu must prop yure eyes open, and keep up a devil ov a thinking, and wisdum, by-and-by, will cum and sit on yu, and tell yu awl about it, which ov the two is the most necessary, the bob, or the long-tailed dog. That part ov yure letter, in which yu ask me about Herring, iz full ov very young and half-biled questions, sum ov which are tew easy tew spend enny time answering; but thare is sum ov them more tuff, which I may as well split up for yu now as enny time. Herring is a small fish that lives in schools. They are used as vittles, and resemble, very mutch, when they are coolked, a paper ov stewed pins. They are cooked by being tanned in the smoke, and then are et raw. They are generally served up with crackers and- water. Crackers and herring are as free from moisture as Daball's arithmetick, and will keep without spileing, as long as the rule ov 3. They are handy tew eat; you kahn eat them on a run, or not, just as yu hav a mind to.   "6        JOSH BItTzNGS. Thare is one thing very awful about a herring ; they hav got but one bowell, and that is about the sise ov a chalk. line when it is stretched tight; this gives their stummuks a penurious look. Bones is what a herring has the most ov; they are as full ov bone as a rat's tail. Yu ask me, " if the herrin and sturgin are the same fish?"This question beats enny one i ever heard ov its sise; a child 2 hours old knows better than that. Jenkins, yu will either hav tew be born agin, or else pull oph yure shoes and run out tew grass one summer, before yu will kno mutch. Ninmrod-I will write yu more at length after sheep-shearing, and will merely suggest now that yu hav got rong noshuns -about mankind in general. Mankind in general is as oncertin as a wasp's nest, and wants as mutch cluss watching as a mule's hind legg. I hav got so poor an opinion ov mankind in gen-. eral (as far as i hav got) that if i was in a destitute condishun i would rather trust' tew mi luck than tew my virtue for sunbeams. In relation tew that chunk ov skripture which yu ask me about, "Be yee as wise as a sarpient, but harmless as a deer," don't mistake it for a dose of catnip tea or herb drink; it warn't meant for a weak   JOSH CORRESPONDS     1] prescription; it is a kind ov iron-klad missionai ship, and means sharp work, on the sly. Yure idee about the friendship ov the world is miles tew leeward ov the channel; friendship is lit ?{     the magnetic needle, thare is certin causes that wi make it vary sideways sumtimes, but when it settle down tew stiddy work it alwus pints tew the pole- and the fellow that owns the needle owns the ph61 And as for human happiness, Nimrod, don't hur for it, and yu may acksidentally cum across -sum o' it. Hunting happiness is a good deal like huntin, crows; when yu haint got yure gun with yu, yu ka: alwas git a grate deal nearer tew the crows. .   xxxV. lNUZE CUTS 'FROM OUR EXCFfANGES. THE "Sianghi Dispatch " advertises for " a Devil, not over 14 years ov good moral karacter.-Refer- ences exchanged.--The young Devil will be ex- pekted tew board with his father, -espeshily during the cold weather." The "Nevada Brick" says, " thare will be a total eklips of-the moon, next month, visibel with the naked eye, only tew the subskribers ov the "BIrick." Send in your subskriptions for the year at onst. The"LMock Turtle Bulletin" learns " that onions in his lokality won't be more than half a crop, owing tew the number ov akers sewed, and the small size of the seed," and advises hiz patrons "tew lay in their assyfedity now, for the winter, while it iz low." The "HMohun k Ledger"  "highsts the name ov John' tyler, solitary and alone, for the next presi-   NUZE CUTS' FROM OUR EXCHANGES.    119 dent, and gives hiz reasons."--(We doubt the polisy of this nominashun, for he haz bin .run into the agrounid onse already.) The -Mutton Hollow Day Book & People's Beg- ister " thus reports the acksident, ov a moral karacter, on the Peuterville railroad. "The konduktor ov the 10.15 train going east, when he got tew the end ov his route, had 19 dollars he couldn't account for. This iz the fust acksident ov the kind, ever diskov- ered on the road, and we kan assure the traveling publik, will probably be the last." The "2Reedsb   urgh Jou rn   s from  good authority, that the wife ov a laborer, in that vicinity, gave birth tew six fine healthy children," and then adds, " but not awl tefe onst." The "'Olive Branch," a black republikan sheet, sez, "the grasshoppers, having et' up everything green thing in our naberhood, hav pitched onto things blue, sech az whetstones, and demokrats, and are dieing oph bi the thousands, in consequentz." : The "Oakville Banner ' don't beleave in the above akount, and adds, " the fackt that the editor of the "Olive Branch" still lives, iz proof enuff that the green things aint all destroyed yet." ,      .           \   120        JOSH BTTLjTNGS. In the colums of the "Weekly Bred," of date Oct' 16, we see it announced, that " the sorrel Hen ov deakon Abijeir Phillips lade an egg which weighed, after it waz kold, 7 pounds with an affidavit tow it, before Square Sturgiss, justis of peace." And then the editor goes on to say, "the hen haz bin dewing better ever sinse."--(We should think it would be hard work for her tew do mutch better.) The "Monthly7 Reckord" learns, thru her country correspondent, " that the maple sugar krop will be bigger next year, than for the last 90 years, and that we shall have a dreadful hard winter, for the geese are getting reddy; he never knu them so tuff tew bile, as they are this fall." , The "Perary Flower" cums tew us with a long and Abel artikle on .punkin pize. The editor -sez, "he waz early from konnekticut, and waz born on pu-nkin pi, and would be willing tew die on .them   almost, with nutmeg in them. He remembers dis- tinktly, how hiz grate grandmother used tew mix them up, and how he used tfew dip into the mix, on the sli." - He further winds up bi saying, I' that it izE az natural for a yankee tew stand on a punkin pi, az it' iz for a setter dorg tew sett on a woodcock, or a Frenchman tew point on a frog's hind legs." (I   NUZE CUTS FROM- OUR EXCHANGES.  121 agree with this feller fully; i waz onse from Nu England myself, and punkin pize waz the fust real sass ov mi boyhood, and at this late time ov dIa, seems to be the principle swivel in the chain, that binds me tew the land whare basswood punlin seeds, and wooden nutmegs, are grown only. for exportation.  -,       XxxYi. DEAD BEATS. No man ever jumps az fur az he kan, -bat once. If the wicked really stand on slippery places, the best thing the rightyus kan do is to keep oph from the ice. Thare is no religion in simply travelling 4 miles an hour, nor enny actual sin in a 2.40 gate. "Position is everything;" position of a comma, for instanse. "Thare is a divinity that shapes our ends rough, hew them as we will." If I was called upon to say how I thought the Devil looked and ackted, i should kompare him to the man who sells rum by the glass, and never drinks enny himself Wits are like hornets,--they hav but few in- timates, Thiefs are remarkabel for their taking ways; Ragmen for their light weighs; Dairymaids for their sweet wheys; Boston for her byways. Courting,-home on a furlough. /I   DEAD BEATS.        123 I maid up mi mind, more than 6 months ago, that this world wa'n't made for phools; and when i see a man determined tew go to the devil, i generly let him went Crippels ar always cross; thay ar nature's libels. I konsider marrying for money no better than steal- ing it I hav seen sum awfF1l bad throte disseases com- pletely cured in 3 days by simply jineing a tem- prance sosiety. A pun, tew be irresistable, don't ought to flavor ov malis aforethought; but wants tew cumn sudden and apt, like a rat out ov his hole. How menny men thare is who argy, just as a bull dus, chained tew a post; they beller and Law, but they kant git away from the post. Monuments are poor investments-the bad don't deserve them, and the good don't peed them. Thare is a grate mnenny stricktly honnest folks in this world; they wouldn't take a -c,ent from enny man that didn't belong tew them, nor giv enny man a cent that didn't belong to themL I consider cerimony principally an effort ov vanity, or a kind'ov fashionable golden rule, which stimu- lates folks to 'do unto others as they would hav others do, unto them.   124       JOS BLNGS- Criticks are generally self-made men, and often poorjobs at that. Thare is one happiness in me that haint grone an hour older sinst it was born, and that is-the fun of  the thing. The heathens worship wood and stone; christians  worship Nevada brilcks.  It ain't no credit tew a cow to giv a pail full ov  milk, and then kick it over-nor any other other Ij M an. ,                      ;-     SPRING--MAY, 1868. SPRING has crn. She has bin on the road about a month. I am glad she has cum, on account ov the grass. The grass waz beginning tew get oneasy about it. I hope the cows will eat sum grass forthwithly, so as tew lower down the price ov butter. Butter has got tew be sassy. 55 cents a pound I Who in thunder ever seed butter so high before ? A feller has got tew go up garret now, tew spread his bread, and then stand on tip-tose tew eat it. Evrything is hi now ! Dandelion greens has riz; i bought a bushel yester- day, and pade 4 dollars fur it i wanted a mess, and mi wife sed it was jist like me, bought 6 times tew mutch. i told her tew dry what she didn't want tew bile; they would go good next winter on bukwheat slap-jacks. She stuk up her nose and slammed the door; but she loves me for aul that, better than enny other wo- man dus.   126       JOSH BILLTNGS. As i sed before, spring has curm     , Mi hart begins- tw kick up her heels, and i feel a limberness in my soul; i think i must be thawin out. I hav a nateral gift for spring melankolly. I luv tew hear a robin sing;.it is as sweet as sad- ness;. I luv tew prokure a violet as soon as i can, each year; there is such a mild impediment in their butiful fases; thay put me in mind ov an orfan child, that has strayed oph into a dell and sot down tew cri. As i sed before, i am glad spring has cum, on akount ov the new bunnets. And altho butter and dandelion greens are condem hi. my wife ses spring bunnits is real cheep, ( and she knos,) she can get a decent one fur 48 dollars, without enny trimmins. I am real glad that one ov the necessaries ov life ain't onreasonable. Potatose and korn beef and ri four and other lux- uries is hi, and i don't kno, fackt, but they ouglt tew be. If folks will hanker after sich things, let them pay for them.  * * * *  * I am satisfied-Spring has cum, and bunnits are dog reasonable.        JOSH BTTITNGS.   XXXVIII. H  R T E S. SuM hartes is trumps. The little child's harte has a host ov shaddery. things in it, fairy ghostesses, in the distanse, without mutch form,--in the fore-ground, tops, and marbles, rag  dolls, and sweet whissels; Christmas, with the little old esquire in his tights, and frisky span, load- ed with wares for a baby market; dreams without enny meaning, little jelosys, little hopes and curious fears,-strange invoice, but life's capital, in which sleep giants and pigmys, happiness and misery. Life's capital! which can't be increased, but which may aul be lost; The little child's harte! look down into it, it is like the vault ov a wild-flower; apparently tenantless but full ov little sekrets, sekrets--unknown tew itself,  sekrets worth knowing,-life's capital. Sweet little vault whare God has locked up crea- tion's destiny. 'INI   MONOGRAFFS. THE happy man iz alwus marrid or expekts tew be. He don't beleaf in ghosts or ghostesses, nor rale. road acksidence before they occur, He lives upon milk, and pays az he goes. -He UYvs evry boddy, and but fu luv him. He laffs when he gits wet, and only takes pills tew pleaze other folks. Like the birds, he waz born happy, and like them he seems tew enjoy it. The world calls him almost a phool, but his happy- ness iz worth more, and cost less thanwisdum. But i consider happiness the easiest tew manage when thare aint much ov it. Our'wretched wants, though they are what makes a man more than a brute, are just what reduces our happyness by expanding it. Evryboddy kan tell his nabor tew be contented with what he haz got, (this is good news,) but nobod- dy but a phool can foller it. Phools are alwus happy, but alas I they don't know it.   MONOGRAFFS.        129 Still, thare aint no arithmetic for happiness-a man has to be measured for hiz happiness just az he duz for hiz boots, and then he aint sure but what they will pinch somewhare. THE HANDSOME MANt AND   PRETTY WOMAN. Buty iz one ov them kind ov conquests that don't last long. It is a kind ov raid, which surprises, but kant hold the territory which it invades. It is a kind ov meteorick rain; which people may set up a night or two to watch for, but failing tew see it a grate deal, may conclude that it aint much ov a shower after awl. Handsum men are skase, and it is good that they are, for there is but very little power in man buty, and thare iz more vanity in one handsum man, than thare iz in two droves ov peacocks' tails. Buty iz another name for effeminacy. Pretty wimmin are plenty, and i am glad ov it, for wimynin hav a perfekt right tew be pretty; but very butiful wimmin are unplenty, and i am glad ov that ditto) for the chances is, they would use their buty to gain our adorashun rather than our esteem. After awl, grate buty iz a left-handed kompliment, for most ov the silly i have met with, are thoze wh9 believed they was very butiful. 1   130       TOSE BTT FNGS.' I think i had rather hav a noze 7 inches and a half long, (in the clear) than tew be the hansumest man in our county; for in the fust case, i should work hard tew shorten mi nose bi some other good qualitys, while in the other case, i probably should never be told by my looking-glass that i was a phool. THE LIVE M[AN. The Live JMan iz like the little pig; he iz weaned young, and begins tew root arly. He iz the pepper-sass ov creation-the all-spice ov the world. One Live Man in a village is like a case ov itch a a distrikt skool-he sets evry boddy scratching a onst. A man who kan draw New Orleans molasses in the month ov January, thru a half' inch augur-hole, and sing"Home! sweet home 1!" while the molasis iz running, may be strictly honest, but he aint sudden enuff for this climate. The Live Man iz az full ov bizness az the conduc- ter ov a street kar-he iz often like a hornet, very biz- zy, but about what, the Lord only knows. ' He lights up like a cotton faktory, and haint got enny more time tew spare than a sikool-boy has Sat- urday afternoons,  t    MONOGRAFrS.        131 He is like a decoy duck, alwus above water, and lives at least 18 months each year. He is like a runaway hoss; he gits the whole ov the road. He trots when he walks, and lies down at night only bekauze everyboddy else duz. The live man is not always a deep thinker; he jumps at conclusions, just as the frog duz, and don't alwus land at the spot he is loolking at. He is -the Amerikan pet, a perfekt mystery tew foreigners; but he has done more (with charcoaD tew work out the greathess of this country than any other man in it.  He is jist as necessary as the grease on an axle-tree. He don't alwus die ritch, but alwus dies bizzy, and meets. death a good deal, az an oyster duz, with- out making enny fuss. THE NERVOUS IAN. The nervous 'man is the original harp ov one thousand strings. He is a fiddle, past finding out The tread ov an elephant don't skare him, but he wilteth when the mouse nibbles in the wainscot. He turneth pale at the poming ov the spider.     . He laffeth when the whirlwind is on a bender, but shuddereth when the striped snaik walks out for an airing.   182        JOSH BTRTmGS. He gazeth at the red lightning with joy, when it gasheth the heavens; but the scales ov his back lift up in horrer when old Baxter files up his wood-saw. The nervous man is a very singular critter--he    - might more properly be called a plural critter. My advice tew   the nervous man is tew    drink milk for a living, and for excitement chaw spruce gum.   XL. JOSH   BTTTLLTNGS AND   THE  TLEKTUR COMMTTY. "E'ITE'S which pass from great men to great men are often wise to owlishness, and so successfully dis- cursive as to treat beautifully upon everything but the point at "issoo." SALT POnNT, Feb. Oth, 1867. J. BTTLTNGS, Esqr.: I am instructed by our association to inquire ov you, and solicit a reply, if you could read a dis- course before our lyceum this winter, and if so, at what time, on what subject, and upon what terms. Most respectfully yours, EZRA SmITE, Cor. Sec'y. POExpSY, Feb. 12th, 1867. SMTH, M DEAR: This day, at 10 o'clock A. M., I cum in contact with your letter, and was real glad tew hear from yu. ITow do you like:being Cor. Selr ov a Ly-   134       JOSH BTLTLINaS. - Associ'-? It is a light, pretty bizziness, and don't require much capital. Let me ask you if you are any relashun to Jake Smith, the hatter. If yu are, forgit it, for Jake is a common cuss. The Smiths are a good family, and prevail more permiskus, than enny kind ov folks ihat i kno ov, but it would be unnatral in the highest if thare want sum, whare they was so thick, that was wuss than the rest. Did. yu ever read history, Ezra? If yu didn't yu will be serprised teu hear that John Smith married Pokerhontas, the dauter ov Powhattan, the injun boss. The way this happened was so: Smith was about gitting slewed, when Pokerhontas went in, and fell flat on him. Old Powhattan giv it up, and Po- kerhontas had Smith, and Smith settled down and went into the injin bizzness, in a small way, on his own hook. This is the grist ov the story.- Tis one ov the most affektingest transactions on file. Yu ought teu read history, Ezra; it will learn yu informashun, and give you a knolledge ov eduka- shun.      The artist takes a poetic license with Mr. Billings' Story of Pocahontas, and repre- nts John Smith getting " slewed" in a modern bar-room.-See page 134. - II    JOSH AND TIE LEKTUR KO mITTY.    135 I forgot tew state, that John Smith lived som- whare in pensylvany, at the time his transakshun with Pokerhontas took place, and if he aint dead probably lives there now. Thare' is one fust rate thing about history: it is alwus true; if it aint true, it aint history, so if yu larn it onst, yu never have tew unharness. But- most poetri, and piktorials, and novels, lie WuSS than an east wind; the fuller a man gits ov them over night, the more room thare iz in him the next day, for sum more. John Smith, who had the transaction with Poker- honeas, had an immense invoice ov boys; thare is 13 ov that name in our town this morning, besides sev- eral who hav either died or gone to Denver Citty. Did it ever strike yu, Ezra, that death was one ov the most remarkable things that could happen tew a man? A man may be ritch, and kno history just like slapjacks for breakfast, and be handsum, able tew lift a ton without thinking, but death beats awl these just as easy as biting crackers. Death seems tew be as far as a man can git; when a man aquires that thoroughly, his ambishun seems tew, be satisfied.   136       JOSH BrTTTGS . One man can be ritcher, and lift more than another, but he kant be enny more deader. I am glad thare is one thing in this world, that is enuff for man. Speaking ov man, Ezra, dew yu konsider him a suckc ess yet, or has he got tew try again? History has a good deal tew say about man, that don't allude tew his suckcess  Adew, Ezra. Yures, full ov oats, JOSHBITLLTNGS. lop , -9,      I   XLL OR-PHAN CFTTlDREN. NOTORIETY is the short glory a man gits, for doin what he ought to be ashamed ov. God only knows how much merit wanders thro this life, sekurely hid bi rays ov poverty; nor how much crime insolently wears the golden armor ov wealth. I think thare is jest as much virtue in the world as thare is vise, only it haint been bored for so mutch. A grate menny ov opinyuns, advanced bi the un- common learned men now-a-days, may be properly defined as dissolving views. It is strange, and it is melankolly true, that those men who spend their time and talents in makin us happier, never gain mutch ov our respekt. Thare is a grate menny people who kno jist enuff tew.-make a smudge, but don't kno jist enuff tew clear it away. I don't know ov'a more keen sarcasm, than a learned man listening attentively tew a fool.   138       JOSH BTTlTWGS. The grate merit thare is in modesty, lies in the modesty thare is in merit. Thare is 2 kinds ov hypokrasy: one tries tew appear better than it is, and the other wuss than it is-one is a wolf in sheep's clothin, and tother is a sheep in wolf's clothing. The hight an depth ov human wisdum, is tew kno oneself; but the human heart kan never be known, only by the God who made it. I never hear a robin on the hiest lim he kan git, pouring out his evening praise, but I am cer- tain, that someboddy in Heaven is listenin. About the most originality that enny writer kan hope tew arrive at honestly, now-a-days, is tew steal with. good judgment. I was once asked bi a talkin cuss, "which i thought was really the mostess happyness, the mar- ried or the single?" i sed tew him that in many cases it was like 'trieing tew winter on injun meal or buckwheat flour; before he had got half way thru, he would wish he had tried the other. i don't kno whether: he took my advise or not In a match game (where both parties are marryin for money) aul side bets are konsidered off--George Wilkes told me so.           Poetry is -as natral a disease tew the human famr-   ORPHAN CHTLT)RENE.       139 ily, as the winde kolick, and in most cases what will cure one, will cure the other. How menny people thare are in this world who spend aul their lives in a hole, and always back into that. The best way tew keep a secret, is tew forget it I never knew a coward who was afraid tew lie. It is a curius fact that most -everyboddy kom- plains ov their misfortunes, and yet, thare ain't ennyboddy who has got the itch, or salt rume bad, but what thinks his kind ov itch is a better kind than his nabor's. Kompliments are like the frosting put on the top ov a cake, only intended for ornament. If a man has got 375 thousand dollars, and is contented, helis happy--" jess so." I don't serpose thare is enny sich thing as " time," --time is a mere parasite ov Eternity.   BTLTTNGS  REPLIZE  TEUV  CORRESPON- DENTS. ' Mary Ann."-Your letter wuz duly received. I hasten teu reply. Waterfalls are a ketching diss- eaze, but not fatal They fust appear on the back o' the bed, about the size ov a small geese's eggs, and gro az big az a wasp's nest, and then they are ripe. They are kep in a pudding bag, and fatted on black hoss hair. It is not considered enny misfortune teu have this dizzease, unlest yu hav it small -If yu hav escaped the dizzease thus far, I wouldn't con- tract it now; for thare will be a new one ov some kind around in -a fu days, that yu may like better. In the mean time prepare yourself for the worst, for the Lord only knows what will come next. "Harrold."-It will be impossible for me to give you a never-failing recipee, how tew secure the affek- shunes ov the opposite sex.-Grate perseverance iz necessary, az yu are aware that young ladiz are high- ly opposed to the married state. They are like   JOSH REPLTZ1E TEW CORRESPONDENTS.   141 their mothers in this respeck. I would advise yu, tew read the "Pilgrim's Progress." It will sustaneyu under yure trials. If yu kan spare enny time, i would advise yu tew be very polite tew the young ladiz 'mother; thare iz nothing more powerful; it is an evidence ov more good breeding, and it carrys the mother kind ov back to the days when she had to suffer in the same cruel way. After fighting the good fight for 6 or 7 years, you diskiver that yure sweetheart is tew be married to another feller; you will ov course secure an invitashun to the affair as pallbearer. This will pay you fur the ,menny trieing seens you hav passed thru, and will also fit yu fur the next deadly struggle. But if yu succeed in getting the objeckt ov your affecshun; yu wil ov course be the only happy man in the world; this iz the way it alwus effeckts folks. "Uncle David." -Got yure letter thru the inter- cession ov the post office. Glad tew hear from you. Sorry tew hear that Aunt .Sally has got the biles: tell her to poultice them well--and trust in the Lord. Sorry tew hear that Cousin Heber haz failed in bizziness; tell him tew play smart-and trust in the Lord. Glad tew hear that Joe Osborne haz drawn a prize in the lottery; tell him tew try it again- and trust in the Lord. Sorry tew hear that Uncle * *n .        .    "2       JOSH BTlTGS. Peter sold hiz corn for only 2 dollars a bushel; tell him tew hang onto it next time-and trust in the Lord. "Petroleum." -I hav looked into the ile boring with grate anxiety, and have satisfied miself that it is a good bore. If you git enny thing in this world worth having, you have tew bore for it without mer- cy. Az a general thing, the bigger the augur iz, the bigger the hole, unless you bore into a mill pond. Menny people are satisfied in doing a gimblet bizzi- ness, and this shows good judgment. Yu never see a smart and well to do squirrel that wants tew reside in a woodchuck's hole. Animals are more sensible than humans; they don't bild a house they kant fill I am not at liberty tew tell yu what i dew thinl about iles giving out, but i advise yu to bore at onst and keep at it, and if you don't strike grease, you will have the satisfaction ov knowing that yu hav made a hole. I am not half so anxious tew kno how much ile men are a gitting, as i am tew kno that everybody iz a boring. Mi advise has alwus bin, don't bore for enny ile-- stock." \    CHPS FOM TH BUTT CUT OV WIS- CHEIPS -FROM - T"E BUTT   CUT  OV  WIS- DUM. JUST about in proportion that a woman bekums famous away from home, she haz dun suthin she hadn't oughter. I don't think it will pay enny man tew be poor jist for the sake ov being a philosopher. The sharpest men hav the fewest ideas, but, like the sun-glass, they kan focus them quick, and the consequentz is, sumboddy gits burnt. Them bosses who ackt just az though they waz agoin to run away awl the time hardly ever do, but the dozy ones, when they do git started, kant run fast enuff to suit them.-It is sum so with the hu- man critters. Ridicule iz the only successful persecution i kno DV. Tew git at the full sublimity ov a wimmins right Iekturer, go tew her hum, and witness her old man   "4       rJosH1 BILLINGS. striving to nuss their last baby, and notis what a dredful sloppy job he makes ov it. Avarice makgs villins ov sum, and growling wretches ov all. Philosophy iz the art ov making ourselfs happy, but yet i find 7 times as mutch philosophy in the world az i do happiness Marrying for 1dve iz postponed for the present; in the mean time Cupi4 dips hiz arrows in petroleum and fires at brown stone fronts, just to keephiz hand in. Pleazure iz just az natural az smelling; thare is az mutch joy in sliding down hill by moonlight, on a barrel stave, az there is 40 years afterwards, in bein principal stock-holder, and president ov a double track ralerode. We should make virtue our master, not our ser- vant. Pitty is the poorest beggarov the whole lot. "Pitty the sorrows ov a poor old man," iz a fust rate way tew hav the dogs set at you,--better, a good deal, be a little sassy. Generosity, az a general thing, haz more pride than kommon sense in it.   CHPS FROM THE BUTT OF WISDUM.    145 Even truth haz a ridiclilons side tew it, which it iz always trieing to hide. Sum people lose twice when they bet; they bet without enny pluck, and lose without enny pluck. Yu kant kure laziness by bribery, nor shame; the only way to kure it, is tew skare it. Laziness is one ov-those kind ov things that has no memory at all, and but an indifferent reccollection "Early impreshuns are the most lasting"-the fast kiss, and the fust licking, cum under this bed. Reputashun is a good deal like a bond-fire, yu hav got tew keep pileing on the shavings. If you don't the flame will soon subdew. I was once asked if mi fourfathers was English- men. I told the illiterate cuss, who propagated the question, that i didn't hav but one father, and he was strictly ov the Massachewsetts purswashun. Good wit iz sumthing like good luck,-the more soon and unexpekted it iz, the-better.   XLTTV. ESSA  ON  SWINE. HOGS generally are quadriped. The extreme length ov their antiquity haz never been fully discovered; they existed a long time before the flood, and hav existed a long time since. There iz a grate deal ov internal revenew in a hog, thare ain't mutch more waste in them than thare iz in a oyster. Even their tails can be wurked up into whissells. -Hogs are good quiet boarders; they alwus eat what iz set before them, and don't ask enny foolish questions.  They never hav enny disseaze but the meazlesj and they never hav that but once; once seems to satisfy -them. Thare iz a grate menny breeds amongst them. Sum are a close corporation breed, and sum are bilt more apart, like a hemlock slab. They used to hav a breed in New England, a few years ago, which they called the striped hog breed. This breed waz in high repute among the landlords;   ESSA ON SWINE.        147 almost evry tavern keeper had one, which he used tew show tew travelers, and brag on him. Sum are full in the face, like a town clock, and some are az long and lean az a cow-catcher, with a steel pinted noze on them. They kan awl' rute well; a hog that kant rute well, haz bin made in vain. They are a short lived animal, and generally die az soon az they git fatt The hog kan be larnt a grate menny cunning things, such az highsting the front gate off from the hinges, tipping over the -swill barrells, and finding a hole in the fence to git into a cornfield, but thare ain't enny length tew their memory; it iz :awful hard work for them tew find the same hole to git out at, espeshy if yu are at all anxious they should. Hogs are very kontrary, and seldom drive well the same way yu. are going; they drive the most the other way-; this haz never bin fully explained, but speaks volumes for the hog. S4 ,   ,      XLV. ON S0-WING MACHNES. DEAR MORSE-I this morning had makrel for brekfast, and also yure letter, enklosing a prospektus uv yure "Improved swivel stitch and back action sowing masheen," and must say i am tickled tew deth with-her. It strikes me that it must be equal tew a small drove uv nu milk cows in a family. If the masheen iz only one quarter az good az the prospektus iz, yure fortune iz az certain and lasting az the rocks.    ' Don't hesitate tew send me one ov the masheens, and i will return the prospektus. I hav now 3 sowing masheens on hand; one i hav had 24 years, the. other two about 20 & 18 years respektivly. The old masheen iz a gem, and will sow on a patch quicker than the hole was made. The other two are smaller, and are halleluger itself on worsted work and ornamental blister. I would part with the 2 younger ones if enny fust   ON SEWING MACHNES.      149 rate chance offered, and furnish a prospektus that would beat the Song ov Solaman. Az for the old one, munny won't buy her. i in- tend to stick tew her till evry thread breaks, for she iz wuth a dozen nu-fangled ones. I got her in Massachusetts, by the side ov the road, at the foot ov a mountain, from a good old Baptiss deakon, who lived in a nice white farm-hous, with green blinds and a hoss-block by the door, and a pen-stock ov never failing water, and a wood pile as bigg az a straw stack. The 2 little ones are on exhibishun now, at mi rooms. Kards ov admishun can be prokured ov the proprietor bi presenting the proper vouchers. Full warrantees will be given with each masheen. Principals only delt with; no agent need apply. Again, dear Morse, I kant help but thank yu for yure prospektus-it iz so limber and full ov good advise; but i kant help but say that if you should see mi sowing masheens and see them at wurk, yu would tare up yure prospektus in disgust, and either git one ov mi kind, or be miserable till you did. Morse, fairwelL In the meantime, yures truli, Jose BJT TNGS.   XLVI. SUM  ADVISE. M yung friend, yu are about tew. begin life, and altho it may seem dredful impossibel tew yu, never- theless yu will be liabel tew make sum mistakes while yu are-scoring, or during the fust mile or two. Let me mix up a little advise for yu tew take till yu git tew trotting stiddy. Yu will observe the advise iz- designed for yung gentlemen who show sum sighns ov speed, and also that i reazon right from the shoulder. 1. Treat the old man and the old woman as yure ' equals; smile when they exhort, and laff when they intreat, for no yung man kan hope for suekcess in ornamental walks ov life who don't wear the belt at home. 2. If yu kant raize a mustash, commit suiside at once and begin agin; for it iz better tew die th an tew suffer disgrace. 3. Cultivate impudense-impudense iz a good   SUM ADVISE.      '  151 substitute for bravery-only be a littel kerful tew pick yure customers when yu tri it on. 4. Keep a trotter and a fiteing rooster. Theze animals will let yu into the konfidense ov men who will watch over yure morals and nuss yure genius. 5. Avoid the old fogys; they are a miserabel set ov cowardly croakers, who, like a third-rate dorg, hav larnt what little they kno about virtew bi simply being overmatched in a fair fight. 6. Suspekt aul femail virtew. This will giv yu an eazy flow ov ambiguous language while in the sosiety ov the ladys, and enabel yu tew awake con- fusion, which yu kan kall sumthing else. 7. If yu git desprait, and must marry, marry for ducats--marrying for blud or for luv iz too sloppy for a man ov spirits. Luv iz a low pashun, and iz designed for 2-story houses on one ov the back streets; not for a brown stun front. 8. Bi aul means learn to sware, chaw. and smoke freely, and don't everr mistake rain water for milk punch, unless yu want a soft thing. 9. Call religion a stock jobber's pidgeon to ketch flatts with; say that virtew iz only the galvanized impotence ov cowards; that wisdum iz but an egg that iz addled; laff at aul things that are sollum, and sware that Backus and Venus are the only two gods fit tew be worshiped.        /   152       JOSH 'RrUTNGS C Yung man, cultivate aul the abuv graces, and add tew them what the ardor of yure genius may inspire, and if the hboss jockeys and pimps generally don't say yon are a cuss ov the brightest hue, and if the devil don't make you sum flattering proposals, the days ov chivalry are positively over, and pudding and milk haz got more glory into it than a brandy smash, a rum sour, or even a thomas and jerry. Yung man, (a fu words with yu in private,) let theze cheerful remarks settle down into you when yu git tew reflekting at 12 o'clock sum -rainy nite. Don't make a phool of'yureself by trieing tew jump 65 feet at one jump, and land among the Ber- hoys at onst, but examine yure bild clussly and see if yu ain't better konstrukted for sumthing honest. But if yu find that yu must go tew dispair, then put on aul the steam yu kan carry, and either bust or git thare az soon az possibel. P. S.-When yu git thare, and hav had enuff ov it, just drop me a line, and i will see what kan be did for yu. But don't forgit one thing-that the road 1     back iz 3 times az fur, and aul the way up hill besides. I,     .      '      .   XLVI. TAKE IT EAZY. YEs, mi dear feller, do take it eazy. Don't fret, don't foam; yu kant take thought an be an inch bigger; yu kant ketch lightning, however yu try; then do take it eazy. If yu would be ritch, only be good, and then take it eazy. If yure ladylove is coy, do take it eazy, for like a wild colt, by and by will she cum and lay her bed in the halter. Joys ever are fu, the evening ov yure daze may be long, and oil you will want for yure twilite lamp; then waste not in fury what will last yu till the wick burns out, if yu will only take it eazy. If yu would see the pitfalls that Satan is digging, if yu would be more than a match for envy and malice, if yu would show no blind side for reproach, chew awl things well, and then take it eazy. Take it eazy, and the snowflakes ov sorrow will melt az they fall; melankolly will laff when she 7   154    .   JOSH BU;IITGS meets yu, poverty's bundle will be light, and awl yure songs will hay a sweet chorus. Take it eazy; natur don't fret; seedtime and har- vest are a sure thing; the bud, then the leaf; the flower, then the fruit; the lilys don't fret; then, mi dear feller, do take it eazy. Take it eazy, only be good, and az each nu mile- stun bi the side ov yure Jordan tells that the grate sity iz nearer, and not fur away, will yure hearte gro lighter, and yure faith gro stronger, airth will look less, and heaven will look bigger; yes, mi dear feller, do, do take it eazy. -,   XLVln. JOSH  CORRESPONDS. Percy. -Did yu ever ride in the cars on a raw day, and have a mountaineer dive in from some cord wood station, and, talcing a seat next in front ov yu, rush the window up, and half freeze yure liver out? (If yu answer this question, don't fail tew say yes, or no.) Didn't yu feel az tho yu would like to help to pitch the red-necked and tobacco-chawing curse out ov the windo? (If yu answer this question, don't fail to say yes.) But it iz no use tew plead with them; they must hav sum more north wind. If yu- should shut one ov these human refrigera- tors up in a 10-acre lot, and put the bars up tight, he would rave around till he tore down a pannel ov the fence, to let sum morefresh air into the lot. When a half civilized humin critter wants enny thing, he wants it just az bad az a bear duz, and generally takes it in the same way. D Bulwer.-Yu are right about it; the elektive teles   156      . JOSH BITTNGS. graph iz verry kuriss. But did it ever ockur tew yu, in the solitude ov yure midnite hour, or when yu waz turning grindstone, or by the side ov the road, or the down hill ov life, or by the good old Moses, that the nerves waz the telegraff wires ov the humin boddy? If this never haz ockured to yu, yure edikashun haz either bin tew mutch Latin, or else yu hav bin kept in a back lot, ware thare want mutch going on. I tell yu that dispatches are flieing all the time from the 2 main offices, one ov which iz lokated in the hed, and the other of which iz in the stummuk. The stummuk "inquires, "When dinner will be reddy?" and iz told bi the branch offiss, at the noze, "in 20 minnitts" The bigg toe learns from the operator at the stummuk offiss that " mock turtles and terrapins iz cuTmming in fast, and that old Gout may be expek- ted in a fu daze."' The head inquires ov the noze, "What yu blow- ing about?" Answer, "i Wet feet" The eyes wants tew kno ov the stummuk, "What they shall do to- stop running?" Stummuk growls back, "Dam yure ize 1" Head sees sudden stars, aid feels the shock oyv t   JOSH CORRESPONDS.     157 arthquake; telegaffs awl over the boddy for an explanation; gits the following dispatch, after a while, from one of the lower offices: "Been down hard on the ice." Friend Bulwer, in the remarks ov the poet, I hold "that we are truly and wonderfully made." Lager.-Yure inquiry iz eazily dispozed ov. Lager Beer iz not intoxikating.  A man bi the name ov Laubenhe'mersmitt, who keeps a saloon, told me so. He sed he hadone ov the little barrells in him at that time, and waz aktually suffering for a drouth. I think he iz a man who kan be depended upon, for he showed me a bolona sarsage, which he sed had bin in the family 67 years. It waz aul kivvered with wrinkles. . e sed it had a nu wrinkle each year, like a kow's horn. I asked him on what prinsipals the bolona sarsage waz bilt? he sed he couldn't tell me, that thare hadn't bin enny nu ones bilt for menny years, on account of the grate de.   a mand for bosses on the canal. Augustus.-Art haz improved natur, but wheth- er sivilizashun haz improved moruls az mutch, I woodent like tu telL Natur iz verry lucksuriant, and that iz what's the matter ov her. She iz like a punlin-vine, (grows without mercy,) and wood grow without pu'nkins tew, but art kurbs the extrava- gunce, and makes the vines " sum puhkins."  Mor- gi   .'e m'- a   158        JOSH BiM  GS. uls ain't lucksuryant; they woodent be haff a crop, if. it wan't for sivilization; but like other things that are forced, they are made tu yeald so mutch, that the tree soon runs tu follyage and tawp, and 'don't bair mutch plums. I don't think the wirld haz got enny sivilizashun tew spare, but i dew thinlk she haz got more than she kan manige well. I be- leave in sivilizashun terribley; i wood like tu see even bares and woolfs and wildkats sivilizyed; but if sivilizashun only makes their hare softer, and only makes them growl less lowder, but makes their teeth sharper and their klaws longer, ththink i like the heethen bare, for a steddy playmait, full az well az i dew the Christian bare.   THEM GOOD OLD DAZE. AS LONGED FOR BY"JOSH BILLINGS. How i dew long (once in a whyle) for them good old daze. Them daze when the stin didn't rise before brek- fast. Them daze when thare waz more fun in 30 cents than thare is now in 7 dollars and a half. Them daze when a man marrid 145 pounds ov woman, and less than 9 pounds (awl told) ov enny- thing else. How i dew long for them good old daze, when ed- ukashun only konsissted in what a man did well. Them daze when deakons waz az austear az boss radish, and ministers preached tew men's soals in- stead of their pockets. Them daze when pollyticks was the excepshun, and honesty the rule. How i dew long for them good old daze when lap- dorgs and wett nusses warn't known, and when brown bred and baked-goose made a good dinner.  .             .     .   j 160    JOSH BTTaJNGS. Them  daze when a man who want bizzy was watched, and when wimmin spun only that kind ov yarn that was ghod for the darning ov stockings., How i dew long for -them good old daze when now and then a gal baby was called Jerusha, and a boy want spilte if he was named Jerrymiah. Aul yee who hay tried the feathers and fuss ov life, who hav had the codfish ov wealth, without sense, stuck under yure noze, cum beneath this tree, and long for an hour with me, for them good old daze when men were ashamed tew be fools, and wirnnin were fraid tew be flirts. N. B.-They used tew maik a milk punch in them daze too, that was very handy tew take. As,^6 Jo  to 0   S S ' -4   rL. A HkU1M TRANSACTION. MRS. BTLLTNGS lately becum helpless. This kalamity was so well published, that the door bel ov the house waz kept on a titter for a week, with " out ov place," Bridgets," "Margarets," and '"Matildys." From so profuse a crop, it was difficult tew select; each one had a karakter, that would hav lasted an economikal person for life, and each one was az demure az if they were about to take the veil. They could all bile, and stew-hash, and frigasee, wash; mend, and iron, bake, bru, and starch-in fackt they were perfecktly elaborate, in aul cook and laundry doings, and never staid out ov nights. For sum reason, (bless the ladys, they never dew ennything without a good reason,) a prodigious eme- rald selelkshun was made from the applicants, hap- py in the immaculate prefix ov Mary, a queen among pots and kittles, soups, gravy, and compounds. She could do evrything I   162       JOSH BITLLNGS. She could sweep without disturbing enny dust; she could bile a dumplin so light, az almost few dis- franchise the long cherished principle ov gravitashun; in fackt, if it was safe tew bet on her, she was a fust- klass kitchin, within a kitchen; "ne plus ultra," a bonny fide II Eureka,"--the last one out. She was sworn in, with the usual serimony ov pinteing out the ways and means, the kittles, and closets, the coal, and cesspool, the pump, and bred tickets, and lots ov other things, in the matter ov nails for this rag, and rags for that nail. The dinner tew be got up was quite ordnary, and Mrs. Billings, willing tew levy but a light tax upon the almost omniscient cook genius ov the -accom- plished Mary, suggested for sass, that most simple az well az most agreeable ov aul wheaten kompounds, known amung fluent housewifes, az a "m ninnit pud- din." '            - "Ah, mum, it will plaze yee's to see me be after makin the puddin." The mistick hour iz clus at hand, when the platter iz tew smoke in the senter ov the snowy damask; a gentle tap iz herd at the parler door ; the glistening Mary relates the vicktory ov meat and, vegatables below, and with a plezant pride nestling in her ize, in virgin innocense, asks:    A HUM TRANSACTION.       163 c, Now mum, pleze, whare dew yu keep yure minits?" P. S.-Comment seems tew be almoste unneces- sary-but perhaps it will be safe tew add, that, if t ignorance iz bliss, Irish cooks must be -the verry broth ov happiness.   MTT, LK  WH1SKEE AND BEER. ,TLK. I WANT tew say sumthing, (" in petto.") I want tew say sumthing, (" entre nous,") in refer. ence to mirlk az a ferterlizer. Milk is spontaneous, (" semper paratus,") and haz did more tew encourage the growth ov the hunin folks)~ ("1 en passant ") than enny other liquid. Milk iz lakteal, (" bizarre;") it iz also aquatick, while under the patronage ov milk venders, (" crrare humanum est.") ' Milk iz also misterious, (" Le mot d'enigme," ) co- kernut milk haz never bin solved yet. Milk iz also another name for humin kindness, (" comme ilfaut.") Milk and bred is a plesant mixtur. So iz milk and rum (" Bonne bouche ") mellow tew contend with in a hot day, (" multum inparvo,) (" id est," " multum " rum, " in parvo " milk.) Sumtimes, if milk iz allowed tew stand too long,   MLK, WI1SKEE, AND BEER.      165 ('statu quo,") a skum arizes tew the surface, (,pas- sim,") which iz apt tew skare folks who live in citys, but it dus not foller, (" non seguitur,") that the milk iz nasty; this skum iz called cream bi folks who in- habit the kuntry, (" magnus Apollo.") Cream iz the parent ("pater familias ") ov butter, and butter iz 45 cents a pound, (" orapro nobis.") The most common, milk in use, without doubt, ('" sans doute ") iz skim milk; skim milk iz made bi skinning the milk, ('" inter nos,") this 4iz considered sharp praktiss, (" coup de main.") Milk iz obtained from cows, hogs, woodchucks, sheep, squirrels, rats, and awl other animals that wear hair. Snakes and geese don't discharge milk, (" lusus naturce.")   V I forgot tew state in conclusion, (a ultima Thule,") that cow milk, if, it iz well watered, brings 10 cents per quart, ("Quod avertat Deus.") WHSKEE.  WHSKEE iz the grate Amerikan bevidge. It iz the granddaddy ov awl our licker. Evrything that haz a good reliable drunk in it, iz at least couzin tew Whiskee or old Rie. Whiskee haz done a grate deal for this kuntry, in e the way ov penitentiary homes and 1houses for the   !               JOSsH BTT;T NGS.      16( poor, and i suppose, if it want for whiskee, thezm houses would aktually hav tew shut up. They tell me that a bushell ov korn will make i gallon ov whiskee, and sum  people, who are ac. quainted with statisticks, say, that a barrell ov whis kee will go further in a family, than a cow. I dons know exactly how fur a cow would go in a family but i should think it would be eazier tew milkA  barrell ov whiskee than a cow-still i hain't nevei figured on it, and it iz only guess-work with me. A gentleman who haz travelled extensively thru the western states, sez that vast quantitys ov korn are raized thare, which iz made into whiskee, tew say nothing ov what iz -annually wasted for bred. He sez thare iz lots ov people out west, who are better I judges ov whiskee than they are ov water, and that you might easily phool them with poor water, but you couldn't with poor whiskee. They hav made whiskee a specialty aul their lives, and. they kan't even go tew church Sundays, without a bottle ov it in their pockets. (I think he must hav lied when he made this last statement.) In my honest opinyun, whiskee is seckund only tew original sin; it is the mill stun, hung upon the neck ov poor degraded humin nature, and if the devil was allowed leave ov absence for six months,                             o ]/    MTLK, WHSKEE, AND BEER.     167 tew visit' this earth, the fust thing he would do, would be to lobby our legislatures for a repeal ov the excise laws, and then invest his pile in gin mills. But since whiskee haz got into this world, I don't think it kan be got out, enny more than small pox kan, but it kan be made komparitively harmless, in the same way, and only in the- same way, and that iz by constant vaccination. * *  *   * BEER. I hav finally cum tew the konclusion, that lager beer iz not intoxikatin. I hav been told so bi a german, who sed he had drank it aiul nite long, just tew tri the experiment, and was obliged tew go home entirely sober in the morning. I hav seen this same man drink sixteen glasses, and if he was drunk, he was drunk in ger- man, and noboddy could understand it. It iz proper enuff tew state, that this man kept a lager-beer saloon, and could have no object in stating what want strictly thus. I beleaved him tew the full extent ov mi ability. I never drank but 3 glasses ov lager beer in mi life, and that made my bed untwist, as tho it was hung on the end ov a string, but i was told that it was owing tew my bile being out ov place, and I guess that it was so, for I never biled over wuss than i did   I168       JOSH BTTTNGS. when I got home that nite. Mi wife was afrade i  i was agoing tew die, and i was almoste afrade i-  shouldn't; for it did seem az tho evrything i had A ever eaten in mi life, was cuming tew the surface, and i do really beleave, if mi wife hadn't pulled oph 4 mi boots, just az she did, they would have cum    thundering up too. , Oh, how sick i was! it was 14 years ago, and i  kan taste it now.  I never had so much experience, in so short a ,i time.  If enny man should tell me that lager beer was not intoxikating, i should beleave him; but if he should tell me that i want drunk that nite, but that my stummuk was only out ov order, i should ask"  him tew state over, in a few words, just how a man felt and akted when he was well set up.             - If i want drunk that nite, i had sum ov the moste natural simptoms a man ever had, and keep sober. In the fust place, it was about 80 rods from whare i drank the lager, tew my house, and i was over 2  hours on the road, and had a hole busted thru each! one ov mi pantaloon kneeze, and didn't hav enny   hat, and tried tew open the. door by the bell-pull,. and hickupped awfully, and saw evrything in the  room tryin tew git round onto the back side ov me, ;    Josh Billings is satisfied that lager beer as a drink is not intoxicating; but having indulged rather freely one day, he finds it difficult, when he sits down, t" to catch the chair as it comes round."-See page 169.   MTTLI, WHSKEE} AND BEER.     169 and in setting down onto a chair, i didn't wait quite long enuff for it tew git exactly under me, when it was going round, and i sett down a little too soon, and missed the chair by about 12 inches, and couldn't git 'up quick enuff tew take the nex one when it cum, and that ain't aul; mi wife said i was az drunk az a beast, and az i sed before, i begun tew spit up things freely. If lager beer iz not intoxikating, it used me al- mighty mean, that i kno. Still i hardly think lager beer iz intoxikating, for i hay been told so, and i am probably the only man living, who ever drunk enny when his bile want plumb. I don't want tew say ennything against a harmless tempranse bevridge, but if i ever drink enny more it will be with mi hands tied behind me, and mi mouth pried open. I don't think lager beer iz intoxikating, but if i remember right, i think it tastes to me like a glass with a handle on one side ov it, full ov soap suds that a pickle had bin put tew soak in.   t' . .       PLUCK. PLCK, tew be ov mutch value, wants tew be in- stant. I hav seen plenty ov men who was anxious tew fite an elephant-six miles oph. How menny ov us hav had our pluck cum tew us next day, and -then it want ov enny more use tew us than an epitaffiz tew a ded man. Pluck iz a normal virtue, and may be made a shining one, az it iz only the tuff substances that will take, and hold a good polish. I hav seen men who was aul pluck, and nothing else;, they are like chestnut burs, alwus reddy, but only fit for one thing, and that iz not to touch. Thare iz a pluck that dares tew do nothing but what iz right, and always dares tew do that; this iz pluck built upon reason, and iz virtue enuff for enny one man.   I beleaf in f*ee rides-on a gate. it don't do tew be limber wiffi If this world was the gardin ov Edin, and full ov FREE LOVE In them daze in ftharee fights, nospshila amung ats and go tew weIk tew bel trustedaf in free lot ides-areon a gate feed I beleaf in freedu for ennvry pokslave on arth. ree love wants more poke them kinds ov fredum, ther animat If this world was the gadin ov Edin, and full ov Adam and Eve, az they was when they was fust launched, then i kan imagine it might do for sum other Adam to hold mi Eve on his lap, and talk about his affinitee, and spiritoal essence, and play lamb. In them daze, thare want no humin natur, it was all God natur.    , Humin natur has bin soaked so mutch sinse, it has got tew weak tew be trusted in a lot whare the feed iz poor, nex tew a meddo, without mutch fence be- tween nor enny poke on. Free love wants more poke than enny other animaL i          ;    JOSH BTT TNS. 1" I don't believe in total depravity--unless a man has a good chance. Free lose iz a good deal like drinling 6 shilling gin for a bevridge. Bevridge iz a Chinese word, and means cussidness. Aul thefree love i hav witnessed thus far, has ex- isted between a villainous letcher on one side, and lunatick virtue on the other side, that had bin de- oderized. out ov its truth, and had lost aul ov its modesty, and shame, in hunting after a condishun, whare sin ceazed tew be a crime. The fust free lover we hav enny akount ov, was the devil.   FAST MEN. I HAV alwus loved "Fast men;" not those who arefast in their morals, but the sudden kind, those who think fast, and ackt fast. I never knu a verry slow Amerikan who amounted tew ennything. Put a man onto an island, dike Nova Scosha,) and he will learn how tew be slow; it iz like chaining a bull tarrier tew a post; after a while he will just straighten the chain, that's all But on a Hemispheer like ours, even mud turkles learn how tew show a good gait. Whare natur setts the exampel, whare she iz vast, and magestick, men soon git in the habit ov reckon- ing bi the millyuns, and :a man ain't enny more apt tew make a big mistake, than he iz a small one; thare iz more game mist at 100 feet, than thar iz at 100 yards. Fast men make most ov the blunders that are made; but they also make most ov the good hits that are made.   174-      JOSH BrTTNGS. It don't hurt mi feelings (occasionally) tew hear that a man has fell his whole length, and even ploughed up the ground whare he struck, for then i kno he couldn't hav bin standing still, nor hanging onto sumboddy's picket fence. Methusila lived a 1000 years, but i serpose he could hav seen aul he saw, and dun aul he did in 5 years, if he had lived in New York city. I never knu a peace ov machinery tew prove a failure bekause it was tew fast; and who iz thare who has ever turned one bi hand, that has not wept for joy tew see a grindstone git round 500 times in a ( minnitt, driven bi steam? Fast men sumtimes 'kollide, but experience has proved that it iz better for a locomotiff tew strike a rock at 40 miles -an hour, than at 15, for at 490 miles the rock may be displased, but at 15 the locomotiff iz sartin tew be. I alwus did think well ov the konneticut vagrant, who was confined in the poor house bekauze he hadn't ennything tew do, and hearing ov a bass- wood shoe-peg spekulashun, that,.was raging outside, broke out ov the poor-house, and made 1500 dollars before they could ketch him. "Life iz short," and this iz one grate reason whi it 4 ought tew be fast.   "V. JOSH REPLIES TO ONE OF HS CORRES- PONDENTS. "Benvolio."-In writing for yu an analasiss ov the frog, i must confess that i hav coppied the whole thing, " verbatus ad liberating," from the works ov a selebrated'French writer on natural history, ov the 16th sentry. 'The frog iz, in the fust case, a tadpole, aul boddy and tail, without cuming tew a head. He travels in pond holes, bi the side ov the turn- pike, and iz accellerated bi the acktivity ov his tail, which wriggles, with uncommon limberness and vi- vacity. - Bi and bi, pretty soon, before long, in a few daze, his tail iz no more, and legs begin to emerge from the south end ov the animal, and from the north end, at the same time, may be seen a disposi- tion tew head out. In this cautious way the frog iz built, and then for the fust time in his life, begins tew git his head abuv water.   176        JOSH BTLTNGS. His success iz now certain, and soon, in about five daze more, he may be seen sitting down on himself bi the side ov the pond hole, and looking at the din- ner baskets ov the children on their way tew the distrikt skoolhous. Az the children cum more nearer, with a club or ' chunk ov a brickbat in his hand tew swott him with, he rares up on his behind leggs, and enters the water, head fust, without opening the door. Thus the frog duz bizzness for a spell ov time, until he gits tew be 21, and then his life iz more ramified. Frogs hav 2 naturs, ground and water, and are az free from sin az an oyster. I never knu a frog tew hurt ennyboddy who paid his honest dets and took the NEW YORK WEEKLY. I don't reckoleckt now whether a frog has enny before leggs or not, and if he don't, it ain't enny , boddy's bizzness but the frog's. Their hind leggs are used for refreshments, but the rest ov him won't pay for eating. A frog iz the only person who kan live in a well, and not get tired. The bull-frog iz the boss ov the mud puddle, and has a log tew sit on, over on the other side ov the pud- dle, and talks tew the rest ov the frogs away down   JORH REPLIES TO A CORRESPONDENT.   -1" in his throat, so that yu kan't understand more than half what he sez; he iz generally a cross and lazy old devil, all over warts. This iz aul thare iz worth knowing now about the frog, except that they ketch flize during fli time, and winter on nothing, by freezing'up solid. P. S.-I hav'endeavored tew translate mi author cluss, but it iz tuff tew render aul his butiz intu our tung, without bursting the sense.  .                .{   "VI. HUMAN HAPPINESS. HUMAN happyness being a subject that interests most persons, and- having never bin writ upon bi enny boddy else, i thought i would write upon it immediately. But :fu ever git tew be happy, for the reazon they try so hard. Comfort in this world is about awl that mortals kan expect; ha2pyness has bin reserved, bi an all wise Providence, for futur use. Those who are the most happy appear tew kno it the least; in fact, happyness seems tew consist in not knowing it. The best way i kno ov tew be happy is not tew want enny thing till yu hav got it, and then be saving of it. Pudding and milk is a good thing tew git happy on, but too mutch pudding and milk, even, will wor- ry a man. The most happy individual i ever knu had no   HUMAN EHAPPINESS.       179 'under garment, and he probably   would have remained happy, until his back had wore out, if the Femail Billingsville sowing society had not fur- nished him a cotton seclusion for hiz body, and got him riled up, bekauze the collar tew the seclusion want starched stiff enuff. It iz a verry dangerous peace ov bizzness tew interfere with enny man's private plans, for hiz own partiklar happyness, (or partiklar misery,) upon the same principle, that it iz a verry dangerous enter- prise to pull a thorn out ov a mule's hind leg, and dodge the kick. Awl human hapness iz conservatiff; 2 thirds,ovr the pleasure in sliding down hill consists in drawing the sled back. I don't serpoze thare would be enny fun in sliding down a hill 34: miles long. A verry large share ov our happiness iz derived from anticipation; i kan rekoleckt now ov having tremenjus fun, years ago, in the western wilderness, hunting bees, and also hav a lively reminiscence ov gitting awfully stung, when i found the bees. Upon the whole, after weighing the matter camly, i hav cum tew the sanguine konklusion, that the hight ov human happyness in this life, consists in being unhappy, and not kno it.   "I. PHTTLOSOPHEE OV Tt'HE   BILLT NGS FAM- AS SOT DOWN BI JOSH. I PRAY you, never seem tew want enny thing. If you hav not got even a wheelbarrow, talk with grate ease about a horse and carriage. If you are caught with a rent in yure coat, be az mutch serprised at first as he who diskovers it, (a rent iz but the episode ov a moment,) but do not be mortified, even if he iz curious. If questioned about yure ansesstors, remember that the further back you go, the more safely you may lay yure claims-you had just az menny rela- shuns in Knower's ark, az enny body kan show. Eat puddin and milk simply becaus it is healthy. 'Hire a back seat in the Church, so az tew be the first out, in kase ov fire. Your wife and children never look so well tew you, az in a "shLillir a yard." r   PHLOSOPHY.         181 If spoken ov for offiss, take notiss ov this or that growin evil; suggest no plan; wear a careful plaster over your mouth, and talk about the capasity and integrity of yure opponent-if beaten, praze the right ov suffrage, publickly, but dam the whole plan, privately, as match az you are a mind to. If you would borry a sum ov munny, ask for it as you would for a yesterday's nuzpaper. If invited tew dinner-hessitate, but yield upon reflekshun, remarkin, "that yure own table is pro- vided with oysters, and needs no carver." Make az menny fren ds you kan--never, but as a last resort, use one. Always sing, for thus you may get the envy ov the world, while yure tears would seek in vain for their pity. Live in the world az, one ov its most familyer people, but really hav but little to do with it. Never argu, and never be convinced. But chiefly, never want ennything; for thus you giv tung tew yure poverty. Menny a man haz died rich, aiid ben kalled wize, by simply holding hiz tung. When you are asked tew admirate an equipage, dew it warmly, but suggest that you never indulge in horses, on akount ov their liability tew glanders.   182        JOSH BUIUT'TNGS. If you are poor, ask Alexander tew stand out ov your sunshine. If you are rich, ask him tew stand in it Dew  not envy ennything on arth, not even a man's virtues, for them you kan git az well az he. Talk familiarly ov wealth--deceave every one but yourself. Never show the world mutch ov yure hart; keep that for Him who made it, and knose its impulses. N. B.- This philosophee has made the Billings family what they am.   L"L AMERTKANS. AmXRIXANX S love caustick things; they would prefer turpentine tew colone-water, if they had tew drink either. So with their relish of humor; they must hav it on the half-shell with cayenne. An Englishman wants hiz fun smothered deep in mint sauce, and he iz willin tew wait till next day before he tastes it If you tickle or convince an Amerikan yu hav got few do it quick. An Amerikan luvs tew laff, but he don't luv tew make a bizzness ov it; he works, eats, and haw- haws on a canter. I guess the English hav more wit,- and the Amer- ikans more humor. We havn't had time, yet, tew bile down our humor and git the wit out ov it. The English are better punsters, but i konsider punning a sort ov literary prostitushun in which   184       JOSH BUTLTNGS.- futur happynesz iz swopped oph for the plezzure ov the moment Thare iz one thing i hav noticed: evryboddy that writes expeckts tew be wize or witty-so duz evry- body expect tew be saved when they die; but thare iz good reason tew beleave that the goats here- after will be in the majority, just az the sheep are here. Don't forget one thing, yu hav got tew be wize before yu kan be witty; and don't forget two things, a single paragraff haz made sum men immortal, while a volume haz- bin wuss than a pile-driver tew others-but what would Amerikans dew if it want for their sensashuns? Sumthing new, sumthing startling iz necessary for us az a people, and it don't make mutch matter what it iz--a huge defalkashun-a red elephant-or Jer- see clams with pearls in them will answer if nothing better. offers. Englishmen all laff at us for our sensashuns, and sum ov them fret about it, and spred their feathers in distress for us, aSz a fond and foolish old hen, who haz hatched out a setting ov ducks' eggs, will stand on the banks ov a mill pond, wringing her hands in agony to see her brood pitch in and take a sail. She kant understand it, but the Ducls know awl about it    PHLOSOPHY.       185 N. B.-Yu kan bet 50 dollars the Ducks know all about it. N. B.-Yu kan bet 50 dollars more that it makes no difference who hatches out an Amerikan, the fast thing he will do, iz to pitch into sumthin. N. B.--No more bets at present. P,   LIX. JOSH CLEANS OUT HIS PIGEON-HOLE OF CORRESPONDENTS. Iowa.-Don't press the matter tew mutch. The only way to heal a gal ov the 'wonts," is tew git her wonted, and then stampede things briskly. Sharpley.-The best cure i knu ov fur tite boots is small feet Wisconsin.--Yu ask me "how far the Hudson River runs up?" i hasten tew state that the Hud- son River don't run up at alL Jerry.--Yu are sound on this espeshall goose, when yu say " that yu have diskovered poker tew be an unsertin game;" but, Jerry, let me tell yu how tew reduse it tew a sertinty. 5 aces will al- wus beat 4 aces and a king; it will dew it in any kind ov a game. Albany.-i kant tell.yu what the usual life in- surance rate is; perhaps Andy Johnson kan tell yu; he has bin lately reinsured, his polisy having about run out.   [GEON-HOLE CORRESPODENE    187 Ezra.-Noboddy but a phool would try tew hold a bull bi the tail; and yet Ezra, mi dear unknown frend, how menny ov us take just as foolish a holt on evrything. Mike.-It aint necessary that a prayer, tew be good, should be very long or very loud. i hav used one like this fur the last 4 years, and it suits me: "O Lord visit mi heart fast, mi head next, and mi pocket-book last." M/ason.-"Man wants but little here belo" niay hav bin true when it wos fast ritten, but ever since the war he wants aul he kan lay his claws on. Byron.-I read yure poem carefully,    it won't anser. it is tew mutch longer than it is wide. Poetry is a good deal like a clothes-line, very apt tew spred lengthways if at all  Most evryboddy, sumtime during their lives, has the poetry ailment, jist as they hav the teeth cut, but one teeth cutting satisfies evryboddy but the phools. Dunkirc.-Yu tell me "that yu hav konkluded tew lead an arkadian life;" the arkadians are a 'clever sett ov phellers in the lump; i lived with them 7 years onst in mi life, but they got into the habit ov dipping their bread into the pork grease, tew save butter, and then i quit the arkadians. Abigall.-Bonnets kontinue tew be worn yet; the   188        JOSHf BITTTNGS. present stile is about the size ov a kold bukwheat kake; feathers are not so much worn this spring, on akount ov the grate supply ov bob-tailed roos. ters in the kuntry. Lizzy.-The gentleman yu inquire about is a bachelor in full communion bi profession; his habits fur honesta is good; he pays cash for his whiskey and billyards.      Farmer.--i kant tell yu how  much oats it is best tew plant on an aker, but i think, at a ruff guess, 15 or 20 bushels would be a grate plenty. i never had but 7 years' chance at farming, but if mi memory serves me right, (and i never caught her in a lie,) rye must be a good krop tew raise, for old rye sells now quick for 6 or 7 dollars a gallond. Pelharm.-No notice will be took, (from this date hereafterwards) ov letters that hain't got a pos- tage-stamp onto them. Don't write only on one side ov the manuscript, and don't write mutch onto that. Don't send a manuscript, unless yu kan read it yureself, after it gits dry. We pay, aul the way up hill, from 10 cents tew one dollar for contribushuns, ackording tew heft Aul settlements made promptly at the end ov the next ensuing year.                 . "    PIGEON-HOLE CORRESPONDENTS.    189 Poetry and prose pieces respectively serlicited. The highest market price paid for awful railrode smashes, and elopements with another man's wife. No swareing aloud in our paper. Yure article on "frogs" is received. It made me laff like lightning. I .         A / - *      V  ,    "X. JOSH CHAWS HS CUD. EARTHLI glory is sum like potatoze on very ritch sile,-topl plenty,--tater skase. It aint so much trouble tew git ritch, as it is tew tell when we hav got ritch. The most bitter sarkasm sleeps in silent words. It is unkommon hard tew annihilate a man with words,-altho it is often undertook. Hope is evryboddy's handmaid-she is a sli coquet and promises menny favors, but grants only a fu, and them are badly diskounted. If yu want tew git at the circumference ov a man, examine him among men,-but if yu want tew get at his aktual diameter, meazure him at his fireside. Thare is nothing so difficult tew hide as our follys. Thare seems tew be 4 styles ov mind,- 1st, them who know it iz so! 2d, them who know it aint so! ,#             . * -^ '   JOSE CHAWS HS CUD.     191 3d, them w o split the diffrence, and guess at it I 4th, them who don't care a darn which way it is I Thare is but few men who hav karackter enuff tew lead a life ov idleness. True Love is spelt just the same in Choctaw, as it is in English. Thoze who retire from the world on akount ov its sin and pesky ness, must not forgit that they hav got tew keep kompany with a person who wants just as much watching as ennyboddy else. Buty that don't make a woman vain makes her very butiful. A puppv plays with evry pup he meets, but old dorgs hav'but fu associates. He who buys whatlhe kant want, will ear long want what he kant buy. It kosts a good deal tew be wise, but it don't kost ennything tew be happy. Necessity begot Invenshun, Invenshun begot Con- venience, Convenience begot. Pleasure, Pleasure be- got Luxury, Luxury begot Riotand Disease, Riot and Disease, between them, begot Poverty, and Po- verty begot Necessity again,-this is the revolushun ov man, and- is about aul he kan brag on.    192       JOSE BsT rsaTsG Power either makes a man a tyrant, or a tool Thare is no such thing as flattery,-if commenda- shun is deserved, it is no flattery, but truth, and if commendashun is undeserved, it is not flattery, but slander. "Man was kreated a little lower than the Angels," --and it is lucky for the said Angels that he was. "The luxury ov grief 1"-this, i take it, means tew hav yure old unkle die, and leave yu $9000, and yu cry. "Love lies bleeding 1"--this is probably one ov the bludiest lies that ever was told.   'o tPOLI S I       -t ev  o  S The artist here represents NEATNESs [when carried too farl as a Roman Warrior, armed with every symbol of house-cleaning apparatus, and waging war upon all un- offending -people who are not willing to have their apartments thoroughly cleaned every day.-See page 193.   TNT. MONOGRAFFS. THE NEAT PERSON. NEATNESS, in my opinyun, iz one ov the virtews. I hav alwus konsidered it twin sister to chastity. But while I almost worship neatness in folks, i hav seen them who did understand the. bizzness so well az tew acktually make it fearful tew behold. I hav seen neatness that want satisfied in being a common- sized virtew, but had bekum an ungovernable pashun, enslaving its possesser, and making everyboddy un- eazy who kum in kontack with it When a person finds it necessary to skour the nail beds in the cellar stairs evry day, and skrub oph the ducks' feet in hot water, it iz then that neatness haz bekum the tyrant of its viktim. I hav seen individuals who wouldn't let a tired fly light on the wall paper ov their spare room enny quicker than they would let a dogmix up the bread for them, and who would hunt a single cockroach   194       JOSH BITNGS. up stairs and down until his leggs were sore oph clear up to his stummuk but what they would hay him. I kan't blame them for being a littlelively with the cockroach, for i don't like coclroaches miself-espeshily in mi soup. Thare i no persons in the world who work so har and so eternally az the viclrtims ov extatick neat- ness; but they don't seem tew do mutch'after all, for they don't get a thing fairly cleaned to thei rindlbe- fore the other end ov it gits dirty, and they fall tew scrubbling itawal over agin. If you should shut one ov these people up in a hogshead, they would keep bizzy scouring all the time, arid would clean a hole right thru the side ov the hogshed in less than 3 months. They will keep a whole house dirty the year round cleaning it, and the only peace the family can hav is when mother iz either bileing soap or making. dip kandles. They rinze before daylight, so az to begin scrubbing early, and go tew bed before dark for fear things will begin tew git dirty. These kind ov excessiv neat folks are not alwus verTy literary, but they know soft water from hard bi looking at it, and they kan tell what kind ov soap will fetch oph the dirt best They are sium like a kitchin gardin--very regularly laid out, but not planted yet.   MONOGRh FS.       195 If mi wife waz one ov these kind ,ov neatnesses I would-love her more than ever, for i ddoluv awl the different kinds ov neatness; but i think we would keep house by travelling round awl the time, and not stay but one night in a place, and i don't think she would undertake tew skrub up the whole ov the Uni- ted States ov Amerika. THE PHATT MAN. Thare iz only 3 things that belong tew other folks that i ever envy, and them iz virtew, flesh, and un- derstanding. I suppose it iz possibel for a man tew manufakter hiz own virtew, and improve hiz stock ov under- standing; but he kant kivver hiz long, lean boddy ov bones with a soft and pulpy cushion ov flesh, that is fun tew set down om I never cum akross a phatt man neatly dressedi with hiz slik and shining face cut generously out ov warm meat,'and gashed with a pair of smaking lips, az smoothe and az gently red az the doorway tew a sea shell, and garnished with a grate pair of juicy eyes, that are forever slopping over with good natur, but what I wanted to call him unkle, and kiss him for mi ant.   196       JOSH B7TFrNGS. And then their embonpint, (i beleave you call it,) so outspoken, so fill ov good things, iz equal to a dinner, for a lean devil, like me, to look at even. I kant tell whatt makes one man so phatt, and the next one so like an empty stocking, or a manakin in a narrow bolster, unless it iz that the phatt souls are like a mountain spring, fed from within, until they kant hold no more, and then run over the brim, tew make others happy. Did ye ever kno a phatt man to commit sewicide? i guess yu never did; they luv gravy tew well for that.  Shaikspear loved old Jack Fallstaff more than enny picture he ever drew, and tho he filled him up tew the edge with deviltry, and stale heroism, and much sack, and but little bread, he made him phatt, and everyboddy would be verry sorry now tew hav this good-natured hillock ov flesh graded down out ov their memory. When Shaikspear wanted sum pizen, he sought out, you remember, a lean apothekary, who kept a grocery ov beggarly boxes. Did yu ever hear ov a phatt man being hung? I guess not. They sumtimes destroy plum puddin, and biled ox, but they never murder enny thing that ain't good tew eat   MONOGRAFAS.       197 That must hav been a phatt Frenchman who ex. claimed, upon hiz fust visit tew this kuntry, "By gar! what a people I Ten tousand different religions and only one gravy!" In konklusion, i never inu but one phatt skool. master, and he want good for enny thing, only tew slide down hill with the boys. This satisfize me thatxhat iz only another name for virtew. t   JOSH TALKS. "Paul." -Yu ask me what i think ov the' Gift Distributing bizziness," and i don't hesitate tew say, that it has awl the premonitory simptums ov a dead beat, I hav alwus found that when enny man offers tew giv me ten dollars for 50 cents, he lies; i may think he means to do it, but he don't think so; but i may possibly cum within 2 dollars and a half ov it once and if i do, i hay dun well, a grate deal better than i will the next time. I never put enny money into these swindles, and would as soon undertake tew raize a good sized greenback bi planting a shinplaster back ov the hog pen. If yu get desperate, and feel az tho yu must gam- ble, or die, go 25 cents, odd or even, on the number ov hairs in a kat's back, and count them; this will cool yu oph. "Peter."-I kant simpathize with yu, for i never   JOSH TALKS,        199 was in love miself, and don't kno what iz best tew grease it with. Put a plaster on yur back, and see if that won't help yu. If yu -don't git enny better, wash in kerosene ile, and eat sum green persimmons; if that don't make yu feel enny more eazier, git sea-sick, anid lift up things; this will cure 9 times out ov ten. If yu find you don't git enny better, take another dose ov sea-sickness. If yu keep a gitting, finally, more wuss, yu hav got the real old yeller love, and no mistake. Thare iz only one kure for this kind, and .that iz the ile ov wedlock; but this iz very powerful, and wants tew be took with grate caution. - ,I hav known one dose ov it tew give a man phitts for life. "Brahma Pootra."--Speaking ov hens, leads me tew remark, in the. fust place, that hens, thus far, are a suckcesa  They are domestick, and occasionally are tuff. This iz owing tew their not being biled often enuff in their yunger daze; but the hen ain't tew blame for this. Biled hen is universally respekted. Thare is a grate deal ov originality tew the hen-   200        JOSR BTTrTNGS. exactly how mutch i kant tell, historians fight so mutch about it   Sum say Knower had hens with him in the ark, and sum say he didn't. So it goes which -and tuther.      I kant tell yu which wa! born fust, the hen or the egg; samtimes i think the egg was-and sum- times i think the hen was-and sumtimes i think i don't kno, and i kant tell now, which way is right, for the life of me. Laying eggs is the hen's best grip. A hen that kant lay eggs-is laid out. One egg is konsidered a fair day's work for a hen. i hav heard ov their doing better, but i don't want a hen ov mine tew do it-it is apt tew hurt their constitution and by-laws, and thus impaire their futer worth. The poet sez, beautifully: "Sumboddy haz stole our old blew hen I I wish they'd let her bee; She'used tew lay 2 eggs a day, And Sundays she'd lay 3." This sounds trew enuff for poetry, but i will bet 75 thousand dollars that it never took place. This bet stands open till the 17th dayov Noovem- ber next, at haltf past twelve o'clock.   ZOSH TATLS.        201 "Student."--Rats originally cum from Norway, and i wish they had originally staid thare. They are about as uncalled for as a pain in the small ov the back. They kan be domestikated dreadful easy, that is, as far as gitting in cupboards, and' eating cheese, and knawing pie, is concerned. The best way tew domestikate them that ever i saw, is tew surround them gently, with a steel trap; yu kan reason with them then tew grate advan- tage. Rats are migratorious, they migrately whare ever they hav a mind to. Pisen is also good for rats; it softens their whole moral naturs. Cats hate rats, and  rats hate cats, and--who don't. I serpose thare is between 50 and 60 millions of rats in Amerika (i quote now entirely from memory,) and i don't- serpose thare is a single necessary rat in the whole lot. This shows at a glance how menny waste rats thare  is.  Rats enhance in numbers, faster than shoe pegs do by machinery. -One pair ov  helthy rats is awl that enny man wants tew start the rat bissiness with, and in ninety days, with- out enny outlay, he will begin tew hav rats,--tew turn opht .   202       JOSE BTTTIJNGS. Rats viewed from enny platform yu kan bild, are unspeakably cussid, and i would be willing tew make enny man who would destroy awl the rats in the United States, a valuable keepsake, say for in stance either the life and sufferings ov Andy John- son, in one vollum calf bound, or a receipt tew kure the blind staggers.   "X!J. GTM2LITS. WHEN a man loses hiz health then he fust begins tew take good care on it. This iz good judgment I this iz I Most people decline tew learn only bi their own experiense. I guess they are more than i right, for I don't serpoze a man can git a a perfek idee on molas- ses kandy bi letting another feller taste it for him. It iz a getting so no-a-daze if a man kant cheat in sum way he aint happy. Success in life iz verry apt tew make. us forget the time when Jwe wasn't much. It iz jist so with the frog on the jump; he kant remember when he waz a tadpole-but other folks kan. An individual, tew be a fine gentleman, has either got tew be born so or be brought up so from infansy; he kant learn it suddin enny more than he kan larn   204       JOSH BILLINGS. how tew tork injun correkly bispraktising on a tom- myhawk. I wonder if thare ever waz an olde maid who ever herd on a match that she thought waz suitable. If a man wants tew git at hiz aktual dimenshuns, let him visit a grave-yard. I suppoze Adam iz the only man who ever lived- and want never spanked. I hav oftin sett down square on the ice, bi having mi feet git out ov plase; but i never could see ennything in it tew laff at, (espeshila if thare waz sum water on the top ov the ise,) but i' notis other folks kan. Precepts are like kold bukwheat slap-jacks,-no- boddy feels like being sassy tew them, nor noboddy wants tew adopt them. If enny man wants tew be an olde bachelor, and git sick at a boarding tavern, and hav a back room in the 4th story, and hav a red haired chambermaid bring hiz water gruel tew him in a tin wash-basin, I hav alwus sed, and i stick tew it yet, he haz got a perfek right tew dew it. It iz dreadful eazy work tew repent ov other folks' sis--but not very profitable.   "XTV. MORE CORRESPONDENCE. "ONG BmBcaH, August 24th. DEAR WEFKTYT :-I seaze the opportunity-oppor- tunitys are like pullet's eggs, they are small, and don't cur only one at a time-'tew tell yu by letter how mutch I am infatuated with'Long Branch. I arrived hear tew weeks ago, just in time tew see the Atlantick Ocean, which iz now on exhibition and doing a swelling bizziness tew full houses. The fust thing I did after mi arrival waz tew go in, and I waz astonished tew find the water so high sea- soned. I asked an intelligent natiffwho stood on the bank, with both ov hiz hands in hiz pantaloon pockets, the cauze ov this saltuous phenomenon, and he in- formed me " he didn't care." I thinlk the cuss lied. It iz perfectly heart-rending, and fills one ov mi mellow nature with, tumults ov genuwine sorrow, tew see the gross amount ov young femailes here on track ov husbands and prospective fathers.   206       JOSH BTTLLINGS. I counted 16 yesterday in one pile. They all drew in their breaths as I passed by them with downcast eyes. I felt sorry awl the way through for them, but couldn't give them enny releaf, for I am thorough. ly marrid, and intend to keep so. Shoddy and Petroleum are both here, az full ov wind az a bellows, and attrakt az mutch attention az a pattent churn, warranted tew make good sweet but- ter from skim milk in ten minits; but they say "they shan't remain long, bekause it smells so much like old brine." Yesterday I went out a crabbing, and caught a cart load ov them (several ov them with my hands). Crabs bite with their feet, and hang on like a country cousin. Crabs are used for diet, but thare ain't mutch more meat in them than thare iz in a horse-shoe, and it iz about az difficult to arrive at. They also hav the musketow here, a musikil bug, in great profusion;i they travel around loose, and seem to know everyboddy. The bathing here iz perfectly plenty, and the bathers resemble mermaids--half men and half wimmin--and when they emerge from the Atlantic Ocean you kant tell which is who, unless you ask them.   MORE CORRESPONDENCE.      207 After bathing y u feel a kind ov diskonsolate feel- ing, for which I was advised (by the resident phy. sician) tew wet miself inside with sum whiskee. I took one small wash, about a tumbler full, and immediately never felt so mutch like lifting things in awl mi life. I thought I could lift an acre and a half of their light sandy land, and acktually tried tew do it, but after the whiskee let go its grip ov me I felt as though I could pursew an angle worm into her hole, and hadn't strength enuff left tew take a photograff ov me. If ever I drink enny more Jersee whiskee, it will be after I am ded and gone. Thare iz only one church here, and it kan hold so few that noboddy don't go, out ov politeness. Thare iz 21 hotels, and they are principally bilt inside out, tew give the boarders az mutch salt wind az possible. The lodging rooms are about the size ov a hencoop. Each one haz a   door to them, two cracked wash bowls, and a wet towel. Dinner iz paraded at 2 o'clock, and opens with soup, and shuts up   with huckelberrys. Huckel- berrys are the ruling pashun in New jersey. The servants are desighed tew be blak, but menny //;   208       JOSH 'BTTLINGS. ov them hav resided so long amung the whites that they begin tew adopt our color. Yesterday the Big Snake (which annually makes his appearance here,iand at Nuport, and belongs tew the landlords ov the different taverns) waz distinktly visibel to the naked eye. Az we stood gazing at the Black Crook, a very well drest man told me he hadn't enny doubt that this waz the old primary old serpent that snaked Eve out ov Paradise a fiu years ago. I waz so mutch pleased with the moral power ov the idee, that I immediately offered him six dollars for it, but he sed he waz engaged exclusively to write one year for the Ledger, and couldn't spare it He also sed " he had made snakes a studdy for 14 years," and gave us a long orashun about the different kind ov snake, (including the copper snake,) and did it in sich a kind ov a way that led me to beleaf he waz one ov yure cussed   brunette republi- kans. Thare was one feller, who wore glasses and looked with hiz mouth, sed " the entire snake waz an optik allussion, cauzed by the rays ov the oshun upon the philaktrick globbules ov the saline fluids." The feller had a very perpindikularforehed, and wore hiz hair a grate deal behind; and looked tew me   MORE CORRESPONDENCE.     209 az tho he had been gittin himself in condition tew travail in the Holy Land. One delikate little cherub ov a fermnale (not an hour over 385 years) screamed tenderly, and begun tew feel for a snake. One pensive 'creeture murmured "How bewitch- ing " and another sed 'How egstatick!" but one coarse individual spilte the whole effect ov the thing by bawling out, loud enuff for the snake to hear, "' What a- lova snake!" but the snake took no notis ov the remark, and soon skrewed himself out ov sight. Adew.   "XV. SUM NATRAL HSTORY. THE Alligator irnot a natiff ov Nu England; he iz too useless a critter tew be born thare. He belongs down South, and resides in the same swamp that the copperhead duz. He lives upon raw pig, and don't hesitate tew take them whole, if thare don't happen tew be a smaller one handy. He iz also fond ov a little negro, once in a while, by way ov a fresh. They are amphibicus, and sevral other kinds ov cuss too plenty to menshun. What on earth they are good for, i don't seem to know, unless it iz tew watch for pigs. Their hides kan be tanned into leather, but they are az hardi tew skin az a beech tree iz; and the leather, when tanned, iz just about as limber az a cooking-stove. But one pair ov boots, made out ov alligator, will last az long az a man's name duz; the only way tew wear them out iz tew heave them away.,   SUM. NATRAL  ISTORY.     2" Alligator meat iz not luscious. If yu ask for it at the fust-klass hotels, they will alwus tell yu " that they are jist out." It tastes az i should think the beef ov a mule would, who had been worked forty years in a brick-yard, and then been struk with light- ning, to git rid ov him. When an alligater's mouth iz wide open, hiz head iz just about in the center ov hiz boddy; but they hav one virtew i came verry near forgitting-they make a verry still noize, altho they hav more jaw than enny other critter i kno ov. These are sum ov the heavyest fakts i hav been able tew gather about the alligater. The alligator seems tew be- a second edition ov the krokadile, made out ov what waz left. I think the krokodile usually lays eggs when they want sum morel:krokadiles, but i don't kno whether i think the alligatur duz or don't; but if they do, and i ever find the nest, and the old feller aint on the nest, i shouldn't hesitate tew hatch out the eggs my- self-with a klub.              .  This iz all i ]kno at prezent about the alligatur. The Ren iz the smallest thing surrounded with feathers, except the humming bird. ]He iz about the size ov a horse chestnut. ,   sz          , a.   212       JOSH BTTLLWGS. He iz ov-a dark brown color, and bilds hiz nest in not holes, out ov little bits ov stix. He iz az gritty az a mud pie, and will fight a hen turkey. Rens are little pirates; i hav seen them- drive a blu-bird out ov his house, and sett up bizziness on hiz stock in trade. They lay an egg about the size ov a marrow fat p, and hatch out at least a half dozen children at a set- ting. A young ren iz the funniest little package i ever see done up; they aint much bigger, and look verry mutch like a small-sized. semicolon. Rens are long-lived, but if they should live tew be az old az Methuseler, they wouldn't be az bigg az a butter-nutt. They liv on the bug and worm family, and spend their winters south. They are not proffitable to eat-i would az soon dress a bumble bee, and one ren pot pie would use up the whole breed. THtE C0OW. Next to the monkey, the crow haz the most'devil- try to spare. They are born verry wild, but kan be ,   SUM NATRAL HSTORY.      213 tamed az eazy az the goat kan, but a tame crow iz aktually wuss than a sore thumb. If thare iz enny thing about the house that they kant git into, it iz bekause the thing ain't big enuff. I had rather watch a distrikt skool than one tame crow. Crows live on what they kan steal, and they will steal enny thing that aint tied down. They are fond ov meat vittles, and are the first tew hold an inquest over a departed horse, or a still sheep. They are a fine bird tew hunt, but a hard one tew kill; they kan see you 2 miles first, and will smell a gun right through the side ov a mountain. They are not songstirs, altho they hav a good voice to cultivate, but what they do sing, they seem to understand thoroughly; long praktiss has made them perfekt The crow iz a tuff bird, and kan stand the heat like a blacksmith, and the cold like a stun wall. They bild their nest among a tree, and lay twice, and both eggs would- hatch out, if they was laid in a snow bank,-thare aint no such thing as stop- ping a young crow. Crows are very lengthy; i beleave they live always i never knu one to die a natral deth, and don't believe they kno how.   214       JOSH BTlTTNGS. They are alwus thin in flesh, and are like an injun rubber shew, poor inside and out. They are not considered fine eating, altho' i hav read sumwhare ov biled crow, but still i never heard ov the same man hankering for sum biled-crow 2 times. This essa on the crow is copied from natur, and if it is true, i aint tew blame for-it; natur made the crow, i didn't; if i had i would hav made her more honest and not quite so tuff. The Bumble Bee is one ov natur's sekrets. They probably hav a destiny to fill, and are proba- bly necessary, if a fellow only knew how. Theys liv apart from the rest ov mankind, in little circles numbering about 75 or 80 souls. They are born about haying time, and are different from enny bug i know ovr; they are the biggest when they are fust born. They resemble sum men in this respekt. Their principle bizziness is making poor honey, but they don't make enny to sell. Boys sumtimes rob them out ov a whole summer's work; but thare is one thing about a bumble bee that boys alwus watch dreadful cluss, and that iz their helm.      ,            ,   SUM NTATRAL HSTORY.     215 I had rather not hav awl the bumble bee honey that is between here and the city ov Jerusalem, than tew hav a bumble bee hit me with his helm when he cums round suddin. They are different from other war vessels; the helm alwus minds the bumble bee.   "XVL SLiV VElS OV THOUGHT. THE heartov a true friend iz like a mirror; if yu look into it yu see yurself thare. ' Wisdom that don't make us happier aint worth plowing for. I am dredful fond ov melody; and a banjo, with a negro hung tew it, will. knock more sense out ov me, in one night, than i kan git back in 3 weeks. It is a good plan tu know menny people, but tu let only a few kno yu. I have no more respekt for those who only cater tu mi imaginashun, than I have for the man who fust invented ginger-pop. I never knu a man ov much wisdum who could sing a song well or pla on a fiddle. I don't kare how mutch a man talks, if he will only say it in a few wurds. Rewards deferred make us miserable; it is jit so   StlVVIES OF THOUGHT.      217 with punishments. When i was a boy, i had rather be licked twice than tew be postponed once. Thare is one thing sertain: reason is more than master ov the pashuns. If this iz probably so, the man must be a phool who aint boss ov himself I think it reduces the stummuk ake tew holler; so i think it lessens awl kinds ov anguish, just as it does sin, by- owning it. We are awl willing tew pay more for being amused than instrukted. How inenny folks do yu serpose thare is in this world who are satisfied with things as far as they havgot? Not more than 6, i'll bet. This looks rather dusty for the rest ov the trip. Thare aint no general rile for 'happiness; a man has tew be measured for his happiness, just as he does for his boots, and even then he don't alwus git a good fit. Joy will make a man change ends quicker than sorrow. If a yung man kant find en-ny thing else that he is fit for, i like tew see him carry a goold-headed cane .   218        JosH tPTeNoGS. The top rounds ov a ladder are always the most dangerous. I beleaf in the final salvashun ov men, but i want the privilege ov picking the men. Thare is just this difference between a success and a failure o ov an inch. It is a great deal easier tew beat natur than it is tew equal her-so it is easier tew bile an egg tew much, than just enuff. O     j   Lxvlll. THtE BUZZ -'HS. Ov AWL the insekts or even animals, who occupy two legs and ibreathe the same kind ov air, and drink the same kind ov water that others folks do, thare is not a more distressingly: bizzy. and un- comfortably obnoxious one, than yure whisperer. I mean now those men or those wimmin whose position in the world gives them the title tew be listened to, and even beleaved, who spend their lives like a bumbel bee on the wing, from flower to flower, and from thistle to thistle, buzzing and whispering. These kind ov bumbel beeze deal only in sekrets ov the most delikate or dreadful kind, which they entrust to you with awl the importance and aimable reserve that distinguishes the intimate frend. Thare is nothing in the world that would' give them more pain or confusion (if you can beleave them) than to have their buzzes repeated, and vet, in truth, nothing would giv them more mortifikation 'if they were not. They sow their seed as the husbandman duz his y\ so  hire a   220       JOSH BITLTNGS. expemting it tew sprout, and rejoice as he diz in a good crop.  I know not from what ambishun this buzzing  springs, unless itis the vanity ov knowledge, or the .skarcity on news; but one thing is certan,i that l thesareitY OV D"eWS         hey are no more inveterate workers ka be found-they are emphatikally the early birds who find the worm;  they are thebizzy bees ov thrift, and they are your  provident pissmires who alwus have corn in ther cells against the calamity ov a wet day. Evry  eitty has a thousand ov them, eY village, a score,  and evry naborhood its Aunt Dority, or its UnOe  Diarby, who whisper and buzz from Christmas to  Christmnas acn. These inkts knowevry mrrige that is on the ways, and just when it is tew be launched; they know awl the slips and the slip- shods within a circle of twenty leagues or more; they guess at outrages and divine bankrupeys;  the breath 0V the they hear ov elopements in   breath ov  e  morning, and see the spektral shaddow ov a do-  mestik brawl -stealing o tiptoze aid the gray ov e the evening; they know'the cm  ov evybodys  grandfather, and remember, just like a boo, the  tie when the wife ov esquire Baker was no bet-  ter than she should be. Hdn t know as there is truth enuff in the world just now to do the biz    THE BUZZERS.        221   .  ness with ; if there aint, the buzzers - may be in a measure necessary as a circulating medium; -but if this is really so, they stand in the same relation to an honest circulation that other counterfit munny dus. I hav searched the musty annals ov primogeni- ture, and hav dove down deep into the labarynths of succession, to trace the literal descent ov these slander-breeding and birth-giving scorpions, and found that about four thousand years ago, Envy begot Malice, -Malice begot Revenge, and Revenge had twins--one was a common thief and the other was a buzzer. Nature seems, in the production of Buzzers, to hav. transgressed one ov her most aimable laws: I mean, the grate parsimony she generally shows in inflikting huranity with venemous reptiles. , Stealing is more ancient and more honorable than nialishus buzzing, but itaint quite so safe; the goods are often found on the thief, and this leads to his detection, while the buzzer is more like the incen- diary, 'who applys the match and makes good his escape before the flames begin tew spread. If these pests ov humanity were not wuss in their malice than a pizeri snake without rattles, or meaner in their mischief than the robber ov birds   JOSH BTILLrIGS. nests, I would try and hunt up an apology for them, or at least, would attribute to an eager cu- riosity, or the vanity ov being thought a kind ov sub-treasury ov other folks' confidence, what is quite too often too gross to be set down only in the cal- endar ov crimes. Good-bye buzzers, ov high and low degree yu that buzz in petticoats, and yu that buzz in britches; I hav but one opinion ov yu, and that is-a dreadful mean one.   "XVIIL MONOGRAFFS. THE PASHONATE MAN' PRIDE, without dout, is the old man ov anger. The pashionate man is like a hornets nest, al- wus reddy for a fight These kind ov men live, if they are possessed ov virtues, the most degrading kind ov a life; their fury is followed bi the humiliation ov repent- ance. Pride forces them tew the indignity ov an apology, and the apology is but the smouldering ashes ov another fit ov phrensy. If men only flew into a pashun at great things thare would be some pleasure in forgiving them if it took an earthquake or an elephant tew stir them up, we could pity them; but to see them convulsed with rage bekause they stub their toe, or bekause their name happens to be spelt wrong in the morn- ing paper, sinks them down tew the level ov a cat, whose dignity and decency is awl gone if enny boddy happens to step on their continuation.    224       JOSH BTLLTNGS. But i don't want it told, around the country that i am hollering halleluger for a living, on them kind uv men who kant git mad at all. I don't believe the Lord ever intended, if a mule kicks me on one side, that i am tew turn the other fresh side tew the mule. I say, let a hornet light ontu yu if he wants to, and let him- set thare, and chaw his cud in peace; but if he stings yu, while he is setting on yu, i say, kill the cuss. THE ZFAJTLOUS MAN. The zealous man is alwus trieing tew bile, that is, if he has got enny steam on at all. His pot never simmers, it generally biles over, and puts out the fire; he is either awl bile, or not even lukewarm. Zeal often makes a man more ridiklus than folly duz; in fakt, zeal- and folly were twins, only zeal was born a- little first; he couldn't wait, ov course, till his time cum. Zeal in religion, is the way that biggots are made, an zeal in selling the most dri goods, is the way that good liars are made. I beleaf in zeal, but when it trys tew beat Dexter's time, then i think it wants watching as much as a mule's hind legg dus.   a   .  MONOGRAFFS.       225 Zeal that trots square, and goes a measured mile in about 3 minnitts without a skip, is mi kind; i am willing to bet mi suspender buttons (and they are the last things i want tew lose) on this kind ov zeal. After all, zeal is a good deal like lead; when it is biling hot, yu kan run it into enny kind ov shape yu want tew, but when it is cold, it is as heavy as enny thing i kno ov. I want mi zeal just as i dew mi beefsteak, nicely dun thru. THE GOOD-NATURED MA W Good nature is not an accomplishment, (that is it is not one of them kind ov collaterals, that kan be manufakterd,) it is one ov the virtews, which a man gits, just as he dus his nose, bi having it born with him. It is really worth more tew the world, tew hav a good natured man born into it, and go into the good natured bissness, than to hav a poeck born, and go into the poeckry bissness. Good natur is what evry manl kan understand, but there is a good deal of poeckry that noboddy kan understand, and if they did, they wouldn't be enny the wiser for it.   226       JOSH BTTTTGS.             Good natured men work up into fathers, hus- bands, and brothers, fust rate, and without enny waste; they make good feller. citizens, and evry boddv feels as if they had some stock in them; little children love them, and the girls aint afrade tew be .kist by them; they are as safe and as pleasant as root beer. The good-natured man aint alwus a statesman, nor aint alwus just the man for sekretary ov the treasury, but to grease the griddle ov evry day life, tew soften the furious, tew raise the despondent, and tew endorse 60 day paper, he weighs at least - a ton.  I had rather be a good natured man than tew hav a seat in the New York Legislature; thare may not be as mutch money in it, but thare is twice the means ov grace. ' -  ?   "TXTX.,  PNTLOSOPt h'    ON THE HATLF SHTETLTL. I rAV finally cum tew the conclusion that thare aint truth enuff in the world, just now, to do the bissiness with, and if sum kind ov compromise cant be had, the Devil might as well step in: and run the 3onsarn at oust. I always advise short sermons, espeshily on a hot Sunday. If a minister cant strike ile in boring 40 ninutes, he has either got a poor gimblet, or else he' s a bonng in the rong plase. Don't tell the world yure sorrows, enny more than    i wou would tell them your shame. Philosophers are like graveyards-they- take all hings just as they come, and give them a decent urial and a suitable epitaff.              j Enny boddy can tell where lightning struck last,    X ' ut it takes a smart man tew find out whare it is  oing tew strike nex time-this is one ov the differ- . aces between learning and wisdom. - Sailors' heave the lead for the purpose ov finding i   228        JOSi BJTTjNGS. the bottom, not for the purpose ov going thare-it is sum so with advise; men should ask for it, not so mutch for the purpose ov following it, as for the pur- pose ov strengthening their own plans. I have got a first rate recollekshun, but no memory -I can recolleckt distinctly ov loseing a 10 Dollar bill onse, but cant remember whare, to save mi life. '          t * * ' ! There is men ov so mutch learning and impu- dence, they wouldn't hesitate tew criticise the song ov a bird.  Hogs hav an excellent ear for music-but it takes a dog tew pitch the tune. I hav seen men as full ov indecision as an old barn-alwus reddy, but didn't know exactly which way to pitch. 'Thare is sum folks whose thoughts cant be con- troledi:-they are like twins, they cant be had, nor they cant be stopped. 'Most ennyboddy can write poor sense, but there aint but few that can write good nonsense-and it alwus takes an eddycated man to appreciate it after it is writ.    TLXX. JOSH EPISTOLATES. Neptune.--I cant answer yure questions satisfac- torily tew miself, but perhaps mi answers may suit yu. I cant tell yu what wit and humor is. It may be the bringing together two ideas, appa- rently unlike, and hav them prove tew be a cluss match. Thare wouldn't be enny wit in striking fire with a flint, but thare might be in striking fire with a piece of injia rubber. I don't serpose thare would be enny grate quan- tity ov wit in yure telling sumboddy that yure gal was as hansum as a rose, but thare might possibly be sum wit into it if yu should go on and say that she was as frail, and as thorny, too. Humor (as compared with wit)-seems to be what the old fashioned folks in Connecticut used tew call ' heat lightning,"' not the original artikle that gashes the heavens with a flaming sword, and makes a fel- low's hair get up on end and ake with astonishment. Humor don't dazzle, don't knock   a man down with a sparkle; it is more a soothing syrup, sum-   230        JOSH BILTNs. thing tew tickle, without enny danger ov throwing the patient into fits. Thare seems tew be more than one kind ov wit; punning is called wit, but punning alwus looked to me like trieing tew make words pass for ideas. Thare is without doubt, sum wit in puns, but it is something like sticking a pin into a man, just for fun, and then ask him tew join in the joke. Thare is surm more kinds ov wit, but i find i aint roomy enuff in the skull tew talk mutch about them. Wit and humor both are similar tew kissing; thare is a peculiar kind ov bewitchment in awl three ov them, that evryboddy can acknowledge better than they can pictur out.' Almost evryboddy hankers tew be witty, and most folks think-they am, but ginowine wit is like piety; thare aint much ov it in the market, and those who think they hayv the least ov it, are quite apt tew hav the most. Philo.--I am chuck full ov favourable sentiments towards dancing. I like most awl kinds, from a genteel, and modest Saratoger prance, tew the lim- ber, and loose hilt Alabama break-down. Thare is no other way tew git the booby out ov a boy, and keep him from steping onto himself, than tew learn him how tew danse. This kind ov leg manuel is   JOSH EPISTOLATES.       231 useful for both sexes. Dancing is just as harmless as gitting over a fence, and i think dancing-masters should be encouraged, but still i haint got enny more respekt for a full grown man, who weighs over a hundred pounds, who will give himself up tew this profession, ov learning folks how tew dance, than I hav for the fellow who exhibits trained mice. The best apology that i kan make, tew these dancing pro- fessors, is tew say, that they are martyrs tew the call- ing. But while I am loud in mi sentiments for the theory ov motion, thare is sum ov its collaterals that don't fasten onto my bussum with mutch exta- tickness, but rather with grate clammyness. I don't kno but awl the kind ov dances that are, now raging, are as free from guile as an oyster, but i hav wit- nessed sum amung the top ov the ladder folks, (i don't know the name ov the dances) that i think ought tew be confined tew the married people, and each man with his own wife, and not tew menny by- standers at that. The amusements which i refer to, are ov the cluss communion style, a species ov affectionate rotary- ousness, interspersed with palpitating pauses, and demiquaver wiglings, which, strike me, must be in- dulged in with great risk by those whose minds and hearts ain't thoroughly broke to go in aul harness. /   232      JOSH BrTUFrTGS. -I kant dance miself; i was away from hum in mi younger dase, bissy about sumthing else, when i ought tew hav learnt, and the consequents is, that i cant even walk now without betraying mi awkward- ness. I am most certainly in favor ov dancing, as a matter ofboddy and limb educashun; but i hope the fasti- dious and immoderately polite won't introduce into the exercise ov this most delightful and innocent amusement enny more questionable figgers and forms, and will see the propriety ov banishing some now already indulged in, which are more a credit tew their dexterity and prurient knowledge than tew enny thing else. Plutark.-- Bring up a child in the way he should go, and when he gits old, he won't depart from it." This is trew, but it is tuff to know how to do it. I have seen children brought up on hasty pudding and the catechism, half and half; but they didn't stick. Ministers' sons are proverbial eggs for bad- ness; this may be owing tew the fact, that religious discipline aint half so good tew raise young ones on as good common sense is. When I speak ov "religious discipline," Plutark, i don't mean piety, i only mean a certain kind or stiff-   JOSH EPISTOLATES.      233 faced and buckram morality, made up out ov creed and ironclad noshons. As a general thing ministers hay as little tew brag ov, over and above their piety, as ennybody i kno ov. As a class, they are better judges of chicken pie than they are of human natur; their theorys are too much like a tredmill, and there is nothing in the world will ruin a child enny faster than tew bring them up by rule. Children want studdying as much as the weather, dus during planting time, tew know when and what tew plant. One child (may be as easy tew raise as pertatoes, and the next one as difficult as wild oats. I have raised two miself, and consider them a fair average, and the only string I fiddled on was their good sense, and the more sense a child has got the less fiddling is necessary. If a young one haint got enny sense, they won't pay for raising ennyhow. If a child has got plenty ov sense, they are apt tew hav pride, and a child that has got sense and pride, is just as easy tew raise as a hopvine; aul you want to dew is tew stick up a decent pole for them, and then stand one side arid look on, and jerusalem I how the critters will climb.   JOUST. AULMNAK FOR 1869. MARCH. MARCE begins on Saturday, and hangs on for 31 days. Saturday,!st.-Sum wind; look out for squalls, and pack peddlers; munny iz tight, so are brils. Ben Jonson had his boots tapped 1574 ; eggs a dollar a piece, hens on a strike; mercury 45 degrees above zero; snow, mixed with wind. Sunday, 2nd.--Horace Greeley preaches in Grace church;. text, " the gentleman in black," wind north- west, with simptoms of dust; hen strike continues; the ringleaders are finally arrested and sent to pot; eggs eazier. Monday, 3rd.-Big wind; omnibus, with 17- pas- sengers inside, blown over in Broadway; sow lettuce, and sow on buttons; about these days look out for- wind; Augustus Ceazer sighns the tempranse pledge 1286; strong simptoms ov spring; blue birds and organ grinders make their appearance; sun sets in wind. Tuesday, 4th.-Augustus Ceazer breaks the pledge   AULMNA: FOR 1869.      235 1286; " put not your trust in kings, and princes;' much wind with rain; a whole lot ov naughty chil- dren destroyed in Mercer street by wind; several gusts ov wind; buckwheat slapjacks invented 1745; Andy Johnson commits suicide; grate failure in Wall street; the Bulls fail tew inflate Erie; windy. Wensday, 5th.-A good day tew set a hen; mutch wind:  " he that spareth the child, hateth the rod;" wind raises awnings, and hoop skirts; William Seward resigns in favor ov Fernando Would; Thad Stevens jines the mormons.          / Thursday, 6th.--Wind generally, accompanied with wind from the east; the Black Crook still rages; more wind; whisky hots still in favor ov the seller; sow peas, and punkin pies, for arly sass; babes in the woods born 1600 ; wind threatens. Friday, 7th.- Fred Douglass nominated for presi- dent by the demokrats; black clouds in the west; wind brewing; grate scare in Nassau street; a man runs over a horce; Docktors Pug and Bug in imme- diate attendance; horce not expekted tew live. Rain and snow and wind and mud, about equally mixt. Saturday, 8th.--Horce more easier this morning; mint julips offered, but no takers. About these days expect wind; wind from the northwest; a good day for wind mills. Half-past 5 o'd0ck, P. M., the fol- ,   236        J 0os BrTTINGS. lowing notis appears on all the bulletin boards. "Doctor Pug thinks the horce, with the most skill- ful treatment at the hands ov the attendant physi- cians, may possibly be rendered suitable for a clam waggon, and Doctor Bug corroborates Pug, pro- vided, the oleaginous dipthong that connects the pa- rodial glysses with the nervaqular episode, is not displaced; if so, the most consumit skill ov the profeshion will be requisite to restore a secondary unity." Later-"The horce has been turned out tew grass." Sunday, 9th.-This is the Sabbath, a day that our fathers thought a good deal ov. Mutch wind (in sum ov the churches); streets lively, bissiness good; prize fight on the palisades; police reach the ground after the fight is aul over,. and arrest the ropes and the ring. Wind sutherly; a lager-beer spring dis- covered just out ov the limits ov the city; millions are flocking out to see it. Monday, i0th. -A gale, mile stuns are torn up bi the rutes; fight for 700 dollars and the belt, at' Red Bank, Nu Jersey, between two well known roosters; oysters fust eaten on the half shell 1342, by Don Bivalvo, an Irish Duke; sun sets in the west. Tuesday, 11th.--Roosters still fighting; indications ov wind; counterfeit Tens in circulashun on the   AULMNAK FOR 1899.      237 Faro Bank; look out for them; milk only 15 cents a quart; thank the Lord," the good time," has finally come; Don Quixot fights his first wind mill, 1510, at short range, and got whipped the second round; time 14 minnits. 9:30 P. M.-Torch-lite procession at Red Bank, in honor ov the winning rooster. Wednesday, 12th.-Sum  wind, with wet showers, showers smell strong ov dandylions and grass; gold 132 17-16; exchange on Brooklin and Williams- burgh, one cent (by the ferry boats.) Thursday, 13th.-Bad day for the alminak bissi- ness; no nuze, no wind.; no cards; no nothing. Friday, 14th.-Wendal Phillips tares up thetcon- stitushun ov the United States; "alas! poor Yorick;" rain from abuv; strawherries, watermillions and peaches, gitting skase; rain continners, accompanied with thunder and slight moister; mercury abuv zero. Saturday, 15th.-Grate fraud diskovered in the custom house-3 dollars missing; fifty subordinates suspended; a wet rain. sets in; robbins cum, and immediately begin tew enquire for sum cherrys. Sunday, 16th.--Henry W. Beecher preaches in Brooklyn by partickular request; dandylions in mar- ket only 15 cents a head. Monday, 17th.-Plant sum  beans, plant them   288  .      JOSH BTINTGS. deep; if yu don't they will be sure tew cum up. Robinson Cruso born 1515, all alone, on a destitute iland. Warm rain, mixt with wind; woodchucks cum out ov their holes and begin tew chuck a little. Tuesday, 18th.--Look out for rain and yu will be apt tew see it; wind sow bi sow west; ice discovered in our Rushion purchiss; miners rushing that way; geese are seen marching in single phile, a sure indi- cashun ov the cholera; musketose invented by George Tucker, Esq., 1491; patent applied for but refused, on the ground that they might bight sum- boddy. Wensday, 19th.-A marels nest discovered in On- tary county; a warm and slightly liquid rain; thou- sands ov people hav visited the nests windy; the old mare is dredfull cross and kickful; hens ave- rage an egg a day, beside several cackels. Thursday, 20th.-Appearance ov rain; plant corn for early whiskey; frogs hold their fust concert- Ole Bullfrog musical direcktor--matinee every after- noon;- snakes are caught wriggling (an old trick ov theirs); a warm and muggy night; yu can hear the bullheads bark; United States buys the iland ov 'Great Brittain. if   TXXTT. SUM' NATRAL HSTORY. "THE CLAM."--The claim iz a bulbous plant, and resides on the under side ov the water. He iz born az the birds are, but don't cum out ov his shell. He iz deserted by his parents, at a young and tender age, but don't bekum clamarous on this akount, but sits still, and keeps watch with hiz mouth, for sum- thin tew cum along. Hiz temper iz sed few be cold, and clammy, but he must have a relish for sumthing, for hiz mouth waters aul the time.  He iz the life ov the kompany at a clam-bake; and sumtimes may be seen sunning a half bushell ov himself, in front ov a grocery, and quite often 13 ov them, under the temporarious ex-. citement ov salt and peppersas, hav bin known tew peal, and pitch into a man belo the belt, and kick up-a devil ov a muss with him The clam and the oyster are cuzzins, but the oys- ter haz the best edukashun ov the two; their habits are simlar, but thare iz a grate diffrence in the thick- ness ov their skulls, and in the softness ov their brains; the oyster would shine az a poet, in the col-   240       r JOSH BTLTINGS. lums of the monthly * * * * * while the clam might do the fish market report for the New York daily * *  * *. Thare iz nothing more docile than the clam, and altho they sumtimes git into a stew, they are az eazy tew lay yure hand on, and ketch, az a stun, but they are like an lnjun, not very talky; they hav got an impediment in their noize; their lips open with too much titeness, and their mouth iz tfew full ov tongue tew be glib. Thare iz az mutch diffrence in the breed ov clams, az thare iz in the breed ov Christians; sum are so ten- der; and sum are so tuff,--sum are good on the half shell, at a minnitt'snotis, and sum want az mutch biling az a boss shu, and then will stand a good deal ov chawing besides. Clams were fust diskovered, az the meazles waz, by being caught. How long a clam kan live I don't beleaf they kan tell themselfs, probably 5 thousand years, but a large share ov this time iz wasted; a clam's time aint worth mutch, only tew grow tuff in; it is jiss so with sum other folks I kno ov. "THE CRAB."--Natur is fond ov a joke. She must have felt full ov fun, when she made a soft shell crab. The strongest emotion the crab haz   SUM  NATRAL HSTORY.   241 iz tew bite. They aint afrade tew bite a sawlog, or a black bear.  They are born in the water, but they kan live out doors on the land as long az they kan find ennything tew bite. They hav several leggs, whirl are aul lokated on the starboard side ov their person. Crabs liv under cover, like the mud turtles, but they move evry fust ov May, into a new one. They are sed tew be good eating, but you wouldn't think so tew stand and look at them; it would bother a stranger tew tell where tew begin; it ,would be a good deal like trying tew make a sudden dinner out ov a kross kut saw. They are biled in a pot, about 3 bushels ov them, until they stop biting, and then they are done, and are et by throwing away the boddy, and sucking the pith-out ov the limbs. It is a good deal like trieng tew get the meat out ov a grasshopper's leggs. It is considered a good day's work to git one dinner out of biled crabs; I think perhaps a person mite sustane life on them, but he would hav tew work nite and day to do it, and keep a smart man biling crabs aul the time. Crabs bite with their feet, and hang on like a country couzin.   "XXTTT. MONOGRAFFS. THE INQUISITIVE ] MAN. THA:RE iz no commerce which men and wimmin in- dulge in, that haz so much plezure in it, and at the same time iz subjeckt tew such peculiaritys and abuses, az askin questions. I hav seen people who could ask questions awl day long, and not looze enny flesh. Theze kind are like 2 inch augers-espeshilly or- dained. They don't seem tew have enny difinite objeckt in view, and therefore seldum git satisfied, but if they ever do git satisfied, they are then awl reddy to begin agin They are something like the festiff-muskeeter, they kan liv on nothing, if it iz necessary, but they don't like tew be idle, and the best way to drive them oph, iz tew let them settle, and git full. The inquisitive man don't seem tew be aktuated by maliss, or envy; he iz only dry, and asking questions iz the only thing that will wet hiz drouth.   MONOGRAFFS.        24d They most alwus live tew a good old age, and often die ritch and even virtuous, but never satisfied; yu might az well undertake tew blow up a shad net with wind, az tew fill a gentine quidnunker with nuze. THE LAZY MAN. Self-preservashun iz the fust law ov natur, and la- ziness iz the sekund. Laziness iz a kind ov moral dispepshee, or a spe- cies of virtuous-gout. It iz just az natral for a man tew be lazy, az it iz tew be born. I never knu a lazy man tew really want ennything wanting things iz just what spiles a man for laziness Awl kinds ov laber requires an insentive; thare aint but now and then a rman who is anxious tew saw dri hickory wood twice in 2 awl day long jist for-fun. Even boys hav tew be larnt how tew work, just az a dorg haz tew be lernt how .to churn butter, and i hav known dorgs, after they had got well lernt, to hide under the barn churning days. If laber iz a cuss, it strikes me that laziness must be a blessing. Bees are alwus quoted az patterifs ov industry, but   244,      JOSH BTLTNGS. bees don't lay up enny hunny in those kuntrys whare the flowers bloom" the year round. But i am not in favour ov laziness, and don't re- commend it, even if it iz natral, enny more than i would recommend murder, bekauze the fiust man that waz born into the wurld saw fit tew kill the seckund one naturally. I hav alwus looked upon a lazy man az a kind ov natral pirate, who lives upon the oats ov others, and don't think he haz enny more right- tew live and be lazy than a snake haz. In conclusion, laziness iz like red hair, the only way tew cure it iz to die. I forgot to say that the lazyest man I ever knu lived a little southeast ov Dunkirk; he waz too lazy to pay hiz honest dets, or even wipe hiz noze, and so he let them both run. THE PERFEKT MAN. It is hard work tew be perfeckt, and yet thare is menny who reach perfekshun with fast rate skill. Thare seems to be 2 kinds ov worldly perfekshun; one kind is very mutch like a squash ; if it is good, it is good bekause it kant help it. I alwus envy this kind, they don't hav enny intes-   MONOGRAFFr.        245 tine fights with themselfs; they are like an eight day clock, don't want winding up but oust a week e Their morality is like the Eolian harp; even an eastwind will play a pleasant tune upon it. The other kind ov perfektion belongs tew those folks who kno they are perfekt, these kind ov perfec- tioners travel on their muscle, and wouldn't be afrade tew fight the Devil for 200 dollars a side. Whenever yu find a man who is natrally perfekt, yu will find one who either never haz been temted or who haint got enny thing worth tempting. And whenever you find a man who sez he is perfekt, yu find one who want swatching az much az a buzz saw duz. Theze 2 kinds ov moral perfectioners are'the only ones i kno ov in'this wurld; we kan awl ov us imagine, and even hanker, for sumthiifg better than either ov theze, but perfekshun is not earthy, it roosts near the skeys. THE FAULT-FINDING  MAN. Good Lord deliver Us!  Good Lord deliver us now this minnit! from the fault-finding man. One ov yure wheezing cusses, i mean. These kind ov humin critters are alwus full ov natral flesh; evry boddy iz wrong but they they; grab thissells, whare other folks gather'figs. If they en- ,%   246       JOSH BrTTNGS. joy enny thing they do it under a kind ov protest, and if enny body else enjoys enny thing, they are reddy tew bet 10 dollars, they lie about it. I pitty these poor fellers, more than i do at lost dorg. Their happiness seems tew bealwus drawn from the top ov their misery. Rather than not be able tew find enny fault, they wouldn't hezitate tew say tew an angle-worm, that his tail was altogether too long for the rest of his boddy. They keep up a kind ov running fight, all their lives, with evry thing they cum, across, but seldum ever win a battle; they are like a second-rate bull terrier, alwus a fighting and alwus a gitting licked, ; o   tLxxiv. JOSH DOES UP HS CORRESPONDENCE. "Bushrod.--I got yure faver bi this morning's mail, and taking ophl mi cut, and rooling up mi sleeves, and spitting on mi hands, repli az follers: If yuhave got plenty ov brains, and no money, Nu York citty iz a good place tew cum to, but if yu hav got plenty ov money, and no forains, stay right whareyu are, and keep in the house most always. A ritch phool, in this citty, iz soon smelt out, and then don't last enny longer than a nuzeboy's brekfast. If you haint got enny money, nor enny brains, steal a cow, the fust good chance yu kan git, and live quietly on the milk. "Deacon."-Yurd question iz too big; i kant tell which i think iz the most preacher, Chapin or Beecher. They kan, either ov them, preach the gospel up a heavier grade than enny men i kno ov, in North, Amerika, including our rushing possessions.  Sum folks think that religion consists in preaching the gospel thru yure noze, and that piety iz a kind ov . '.             .   248       JOSH BRIINGS. moral jandies, but i don't; i beleave the Lord iz not angry at a lively Christian, provided he iz level, and duz bizz square, after dark. Sum people are down on sensashun preachers, but i aint Paul waz a sensashioner ov the best brand, and i kno ov lots ov places now, whare a man could preach the gospel, with one hand on hiz revolver, and do a good bizzness. The world iz choked up with human beings, who hav either got tew be skared or drove into heaven, if they ever git thare. I kan imagine that it iz hard work for a man, with a head full ov lightning, not tew flash once in a while, but lightning don't skare me; I had rather be struk with it, than tew be strangled with saw- dust. Thare iz plenty of churches in the United States left, whare yu kan have religion measured out to yu by the small meazure, and whare piety sits like an owl on its roost. If yu are afrade ov lightning, tend one ov theze. I have sot under dull and under lively preeching, and i say, (if thare iz enny to spare,) give me the lively. "Molly."-Street dresses are worn here almost unanimously; in fackt, it iz impossibel tew see enny   JOSH DOES UP HS CORRESPONDENCE.   249 kind ov a femail in the streets without sum kind of a dress on-i mean street dress. They are made in the shape ov a dinner-bell, and fit just about az tight. Waterfalls are a peg higher than they waz, and soon will be worn on the top ov the bed, like a roos- ter's comb.' Hoop skirts are close-reefed, and tilters are on their last leggs. Kid gloves are the rage in lavender; the morelav- enderthe better, and the hair eddys in front, like a nest ov yung whirlpools just hatched out, and drops down behind from the waterfall in one link a foot long, about the size ov a rope, with the pucker coming out ov it. "Bariney "-I received the rat tarrier yu sent me by the Merchants' Union Express, last evening, and gave him a quart ov milk for hiz tea. He pocketed the milk, and wagged for sum more; it made him stick out like a false caff. He slept sound last night, and hasn't waked up yet, altho it iz now 10 o'clock this morning. I have stopped writing tew tickle hiz aose with a pin, and he iz now rushing things around the room for sum rats. He haz just tipped over a Chinese god, worth 8   250       JOSH BTT4TNGS. dollars, and broke him, he will git rats when mi wife cums in. He kant find enny rats, and is now chawing oph mi little boy's toe-to hiz shoe. He iz now crazy for rats agin, and will smash the other vase agin, I'll bet. Thare goes the other vase, bi thunder! all. tew powder. He iz now out ov wind, and iz running hil tung out and in                - He wants tew go out doors for sumthing, and i hav let him went. He hazjust found a poor little boy in the street, whom he knows, and the boyr seems tew know him, and they hav gone round the next block, on a run, together, few see sumthing. He don't seem tew cum back l It iz now to-morrow, and the tarrier don't seem tew cum back. My wife iz glad ov it. I am out 2 vases, a quart of nu milk, and one tarrier. My wife sez, if i ever buy another rat pup,^she will put him tew immediate soak in the cistern at onst. Mi wife iz one ov them kind ov wirmmin that don't make enny statements unless they are true, so yu needn't send me enny more tarrier.   TLXXV. CUPID ON A RATD.) IT iz real singular what a man-killer and a woman- killer the god Cupid iz for one ov hiz heft He iz piktured out on paper about the size of a four-year old fat boy baby, with, a pair of wings about az large as a boss butterfly's, and iz armed with a bow and arrows, that might possibly answer tew kill bumbelbees at four paces. This little fellow haz bagged more game with hiz wooden shuteing irons than aul the powder and shot that ever haz been built can brag ov. I suppoze that it is generally known that he shutes from under cover, at both long and short range, and never iz seen himself. He haz in hiz quiver innumerable arrows, sum few ov them dipped in genuine love, and feathered with good sense, but most ov them would seem too trifling tew be at all dangerous if I hadn't, with mi own eves, noticed him at work with them' both at male and fe- male game, both sitting and flieing, and seen the many ded shots he haz made. ---         252       JOSH BTT ITIGS, I have been at sum pains for the last tew seazons tew watch hiz manoovers, whare I have happened tew be, and the following reckord iz a faithful his- tory of this little chap's bloody bizz: 1 2'Ben Slocum, aged 19 years, weight about 190 pounds, and a good eater, at worl by the month for Farmer Brown, hoeing corn, received hiz death wound from a garter belonging to Rachel Tucker, Brown's hired girl, as the said Tucker waz learning tew jump the rope down in the garden. e : Kate Freelove, youngest daughter of I. S. Freelove, Esq.; who could play big on the planner, and had studied Latin one quarter, waz shot thru and thru by a paper ov Stuart's mixed candys that Frank Fever sent her. jIr John Davis got his mutton cooked bi a spit- curl that waz dangling on Angeline Brown's fore- head. I2 Bill Weatherby, a dry goods clerk, died suddenly bi gitting in range ov one ov Roxy Mathew's sweetest smiles, darted acrost the counter., IQir3 Sally Munson disseased without a struggle. Cause-Dick Fenton's No. 7 patent leather boots,. and Californy soltaire.   CUPr  ON A RAD.     253 Bit Master David Mentor, aged 12 years, depar- ted this life at a district school-house while sharpen- ing little Libby Sherman's slate pensil. JtR   Sam Benson, butcher, wounded with a hoop- skirt, got better, then was struck -plumb dead by a false calf, in the Bowery. @Br Lawrence Peters, aged 60, and for 380 years a consistent bachelor, lived only an hour, in grate agony, at'er eating warm apple pies at Widow Stebbins's. a5T M1att Marshall, worth 250 thousand in 7-30's, waz give up for ded, the arrow passing direktly thru hiz heart, from Maggie Morse's tucker, but recovered instantly upon learning that Maggie's father waz only worth 75 thousand, "t' Frank Hunter, maimed for life by a black balmoral with an orange stripe in it. ISDf Tabitha Spencer, slightly tuff, had been shot at a hundred times, and always mist, waz finally fetched by the Rev. Furbush, in his grate act, reading the 146th hymn, common meter. 'a s  Seth Perkins, tailor, waz slain, goose in hand, by a pucker in the eye ov tIanner Hemstich's cambric needle. t ,   254       JOSH BTTrJTNGs. IP" Matilda Alabaster Jones, caught her death by a squeeze from the hand of Fitzherbert Augustus Boliver, only son ov Duke Mose Boliver.  This squeeze took place last Friday. I30 Jack Tindar, killed instantly at Saratoger, on the 15th ov last August, by four shots at once, i  from the eyes ov Jane Smirk, and her cumzin Tildy. 1 Spencer Richards was wantonly murdered by a chance'shot, in a crowd, from an opera glass. ,   "XXVX. JOSH COMMUNES WITH HS FRIENDS. DEAR JOrE-Your letter came by the last mail and brought with it menny thoughts ov that sunny time when yu and I waz boys, and slid; down hill together Yu ask for mi advise upon a topick which iz always a delikate one for a third party to mix in with; but yu are aware that I am not very delikate, and don't hesitate tew launch mi opinion, espeshily when invited to do it. I consider advise generally wasted, and most sure to be when given upon the matter in question, but i hav a large stock ov it on hand, and shan't miss what i devote to you. By awl means, Joe, git married, if yu bav got a fair show. Don't stand shivvering on the bank; but pitch in and stick yure head under, and the shiver iz awl over. Thare aint enny more trick in gitting marrid, after yu are ready, than there iz in eating peanuts. Menny a man haz stood shivvering on the shore till the river haz awl run out. Don't expect tew marry an angel; the angels hav awl been picked up long ago. Remember, Joe, yu aint a saint yure- /   256       JOSH BTLTNGS. self.- Don't marry for buty excloosively; buty iz like ice, awful slippery, and thaws dredful eazy. Don't marry for garments; dry goods are uncommon deceptibus; they are like the feathers on a blue-jay- pick oph the feathers, and thare aint nothing left. Don't marry for munny; munny may make yu res- pectabel, but kan'j make you honnest nor happy. Don't marry excloosively for luv neither; luv iz like a cooking-stove, good for nothing when the fuel gives out But marry a mixtur. Let the mixtur be: sum buty, becumingly dressed, with about 225 dollars in her pocket; a good speller, handy and neat in the house, plenty ov good sense, a tuff constitution and by-laws, small feet, and a light stepper; add tew this, clean teeth, and a warm heart; the whole tew be well shaken before taken. This mixtur will keep in enny climate, and not evaporate. If the cork happens tew be left out for two or three minutes, the strength aint awl gone. Joe, for heaven's sake don't marry for pedigree; thare aint much in pedigree, unless it iz backed up bi bank stock; a family, with nothing but pedigree, generally lacks sense; they are like a kight with tew much tail; if they would only take oph sum ov the tail, they mite possibly git up, put they are always tew illustrious to take off any tail.   JOSH COMMUNES WiT'A HS iFRIENDS.   257 Let me hear from yu again, Joe, soon. But mi dear fellow, don't be afrade; wedlokiz az natral az milk, but in course thare-iz sum difference in milk about highsting cream, but there iz one thing that don't vary, and that iz awl milk tew have the cream rize good, and keep sweet, must be kept in a cool place, not be rousted up tew often. Don't be an olde bachelor; lonesum, and selfish, crawling out ov yure hole, in the morning, like a shiny backed beetle, and :then backing into it again, late every night, suspicious, and suspected. I would az soon be a stuffed rooster, set up in a show window, or a tin weather cock, on the ridge- pole, of a female seminary, az a lonesum bachelor, ,jeered at by awl the virginity ov the land. Jeremiah.-Don't confuse learning and wisdum; thare iz jist az mutch diffrence between them az thare iz between fruit that iz raized in a hott-house and that which ripens out doors, smiled upon bi the sun, and shook up by the wind and the storm. When the two hitch up together, they are a bully team. Wisdum, -being natrally the stoughtest, takes learn- ing up in its arms, and learning points out the short- est road tew take; they work together handy az a pair ov twin oxen.           .   258      J. OSH BTTrNGS. If a man kant hav but one, he better hav the wis. dum, for wisdum iz alwus fatt with good sense, and kan alwus uze its strength; while learning must hav just sich a spot tew work in, and jist sich a way tew do it. Wisdum iz a giant, whoze strength makes him re- spekted, while learning iz a pigmy, whoze knowl- edge makes him feared. But, Jeremiah, thare kan be a good deal sed- for both ov them. Wisdum grows stout by thinking, and learning gits fat by studdy. Wisdum iz ov the natur ov genius, while learning iz ov the natur ov tallent. But, Jeremiah, these subjects are' too full ov logick for you and me tew phool with. We had better spend our loose moments in finding out the best way tew raize beans, and the best market tew take them to. P. S.-I forgot to say that thare iz four hundred times az mutch learning in the world as thare iz wis- dum.          ,I And also, a man may hav a grate deal ov learning, and not know mutch, just as he may have a grate deal ov strength, and not know the best holts.   jjoXx Vi'. JAW  BONES. GENIUS iz like a hop vine; it will run, and spread, enny how, and hav a. whole lot ov wild hops on it, but tew be a good krop, it must be poled, and cut back, and suckered. Precept iz a buck saw-experience the elbo grease that runs the cussid instrument. Don't talk tew much, Jessie; one half the wisdum ov this world consists in not saying ennything. Thare iz nothing more dangerous tew most men than praize; it iz like filling them up with gunpow- der, and then tutcehing them oph. Patience, if it iz merely constitushional, don't ap- pear tew me to be enny more ov a virtue than kold feet are.  ; l   "XX V il. MORE PHTOSOPHY. THE SUSPICIOUS MAN. SUSrICION, a little ov it, iz almost az good az wis- dum, but it iz one ov them kind ov disseazes that men aint apt tew hav small. It iz like the meazles- if they have it they hay it aul over. A suspicious man iz: most alwus a cunning man; and a cunning man iz generally a rogue. What the happiness ov a suspicious man consists in i never could tell. It certainly aint in friendship, for he iz afraid tew trust hiz own brother; it kant be in conversashun, for he beleaves evry man lies; nor in affection, for he looks upon the artlessness, even ov children,as the germs ov fraud. If a man iz born with this trait, it iz alwus the stoughtest one hie haz got, and about the only one: for suspicions iz like sheep sorrell, a vinegary weed, that runs evry generous plant out ov the soil. If a man learns tew be suspicious, it only proves that he haz been tew bad schools, where not mutch of ennything else waz taught.   MORE PHLOSOPHY.      261 Noboddy but a phool would lay aside all kaution and undertake few go thru this ;world without enny linch-pin; but noboddy but a rogue would learn enny more suspicion than he was aktually obliged to. Prudence and kaution are the simple children ov wisdum ; but suspicion iz either a bastard, got, by De- ceit, upon the person of Ignorance, or else it iz the le- gitimate baby ov parents who hav studdied kaution, not tew protekt themselves, but tew be able tew cheat sumboddy else aul the eazier. THEE WISE MAN. Wisdum is a six-boss team, with a'karfull driver on the box. Yea! a wize man iz an'iron-klad elephant chawing hiz cud. But this wurld is full ov wisdum that never cums out ov its hole; that always roosts on the top limbs ov a tree and hoots at the wayfairing man, but kant show him the way out ov the wilderness. These kind ov wise men are like old gideboards at the crotch ov the roads with the lettering aul washed oph-wooden prophets, wus than no news. 'Wisdum is made out ov faith and virtew and truth seasoned with toil and experience, and scented with   262       JOSH BImUNGS. modesty. This kind ov wisdum is fill as glorious as it is skase. But experience, without doubt, is the boss skool. master ov wurdly wisdum. He is the one who taught Adam and his wife their fust lesson, and he haint never bin out ov a job since. His skool keeps aul day Saturday, and Sundays too, and has but one vakation in it, and that is when aul hands are asleep. But say what yu will, wisdum is a rare bird enny- how. Thare is lots ov folks that kan show yu the mule that kicked them last, but it takes one ov yure klassikal skollars, one ov yure blooded wisdumers, tew point out the mule that iz a going tew kick next. Buy wisdum, mi friends, whenever it is in market, for she is a harp ov 1200 strings. THE EFFEMNATE MAN. The effeminate man is a weak poultiss. He is a kross between root beer and ginger pop with the cork left out ov the bottle over night. He is a fresh water. mermaid lost in a cow pastur, with his hands filled with dandylions. He is a tea-kup full of whipped sillybub-a kitten in pantylets-a sick monkey with a blonde mustash. He is a vine without enny tendrills-a fly drowned in sweet ile-a paper kite in a ded calm.- 1 I   - \   MORE PHLOSOPHY.      263 He lives as the butterflise do-noboddy kan tell whi. He is as harmless as a cent's wuth ov spruce gum, and as useless as a shirt button without enny button-hole. He is as-lazy as a bWad-pill, and has no more hope than a last year's grasshopper. He is a man without enny gaul, and a woman with- out enny gissard. He goes thru life on his tiptose, and dies like colone water spilt on the ground. THE END.    
         
       
   
