
    ----CITATION----
        Poore, Benjamin Perley, (1820-1887). The Mameluke, or, The Sign of the Mystic Tie .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7475
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Mameluke, or, The sign of the mystic tie 
            
               IT                               TIE,
IGN OF, THE ~STcLC IE
k~Y Bo PERLEY T 00L
-~      -    BOSTON:
Fe G
j -
SIRJ     F   THE~I~D                IE.
Entered accrding to Act of CovzgresA, ;l er, .  C, *D8N~jnte  7~Ae  QIce  ~
-Thstct ourtof Mzw~i~t1


'I

m     ~4he          tt  wporiginwlly O    publ -Ia'Aed111-P~IA
~A,  oR      ~             ~j~oin~i oftl, 4ny dee~le4tsn~~
lo            1jj lz                ilm4    fjJa el~t and,      hlpo lrjoural.
The COMPANION embodies a corps of contributors of rare literary excelleiee, and is regarded
as the ne plus ultra, by its scores of thousands of readers.
GLEASON'S PICTORIAL
DR Aw I MG-1B0el                              0 MEP H1 H,
A E  OSD TM, EAUTI1UL           AlD US    L'IN     ET.
The object of this paper is to present, in the most elegant and available form, a weekly literary
melange of notable events of the day. Its columns are devoted to original tales, sketches and
poems, by the
BEST AMERICAN AUTHORS,
and the cream of the domestic .and foreign news; the whole well spiced with wit and humor.
Each paper is
BBAUTIPULLY ILLUSTRATE -
with numerupA accurate Vgravings,byominent artists, of notable objects, current events in all
parts of the   idaMoyieniandIi ners:;aliogt        liking a paper entirely original in its
design in this country. Its pages contain views of 'every populous 'city in the known world, of
all buildings of note in the eastern or western hemisphere, of all the principal' ships and steamers
of the navy and merchant service, with fine portraits of ever7 noted character in the world, male
and female.   Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from life, are also given, with numerous
specimens from the animal kingdom,'the birds of the air, and the fish-of the sea. The Compan-
ion is now printed on the finest of satin surface paper, from a font of new and beautiful type,
manufactured expressly for it,-presenting in its mechanical execution an elegant specimen ofart.
It contains fifteen hundred-and sixty-four square inches, and sixty-four columns of reading matter
and illustrations-a mammoth weekly paper of sixteen octavo pages. It forms
inasmuch as its aim is constqntl in, conction, with the fun  of amusement it affords, and the
rich array of-original miscellany it'resnts, to inblicate th  tictest and highest tone of morality,
and to encourage virtue by holding up to view all that is goo4 and pure, and avoiding all that is
evil in its tendency. In short, the object is to make the paper loved, respected and sought after
for its combined excellences.
T E R MS:-$2,00 per volume, or $4,00 per annum, invariably in advance.
Each six months completes a volume, commencing on the first of January and July; thus
making two volumes per year.
09- One copy of the FiAG Or oun UNION, and one copy of the PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM
COMPANION, one year, for                                                         $5 00
07- The PICTORIAL DnAwING-ROOM CoMPANIoN may be obtained at any of the periodical
depots throughout the country, and of newsmen, at ten cents per single cop
Published 'every  AURAbyP                            G  E   S01   'OSTON, Miss.
S. TRENCH, 161 Nassau, corner of Spruce Street, New York.
.A.. WW  GU.H:  1 .OhestuntStreet, lhadelplpi~e
A       &amp;    o    l Baltimore   tret, Baltimore.
A, C. BAGLEY, 10 West Third Street, Cincinnati.
J. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.
E.    WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Streets, St. Louis
4     Stabscrzpiois receivedd at either of the above places.

placed there three thousand yers 'go.  Supe.
rnor to all on earth, tat has been, tht  a
that will be-nor canany'save the i 1tated raise
the yeil."  So mot it be.
Between the Pyramids and ie banks'o the
'le (where, as tradition says, 'liaostant
daughter had a country resident c e e sand
a beautiful kiosk, or summer place. U  a
massive stohe building, painted 'n'  y  tiring,
anid stndae with large projectgnIIdows, coV-
esA iith latticeswoik, tigh which the yion
of no nrios passer-by cn  enetrate  A xo-.
fresbing shae is afforded   Iusters  O
palm trees,and, eteni    te      s
smilip 'garden    p  nbbssd Mina grove of
myrtles'acaas,~ ndraegianat s.
Towards the 6elosof th6 last century, this ciosk
wasthe o    0 o Mouradey,hieftain'''of "te
9AneIukes, chosen ban farbitrawiyarrieos.
iwho daizied thA tgyptian peov4ii'thi d  -i
i-ade of magnificence, pnd tsie  terrorlinto te
hearts of. their surrounding' efnerins' by ie~r
chivalrie daing. Their h-wk 'ere recraitba
rIdir "tile slav'e-aits of AlIealidria,  score

Tnii Pyraids of Egypt.'- Earth cannot io-
* duce aInore varied or a more interesting land-
scapi, than that which is visible fromthel guim
miti, nor one'embricing so many monuments' of
liurhai reatnss of of Divine omnipotence. On
on4ids the lovely 'and majestic larid of Go-
sheri, watered by the fertilizing Nile,'whose'broad
tide  ieaiders 'like a serpent aniong villages;
and' ~alaes, and' olive groves, and:gaidetis
while on the other hand is the fearful desertits
sai'd waste 'stretlingjt'o the farOffhorizon
without e hibtfing Ahy traces of vegetat i  of
hunah existence. Nothing can be' mote beau-
tifully iflutraiti'e thn 'tat alie  decked
rich mantle of verdure, And  6 irndd  ith rare
architectural"ornaments ;-nothiig is a mlore
fearful type of death than that grave-like desert.
What a symbolic locality for the' Pyritmids,
those ancient temples erected by the bkothers'ofa
the fangstic tie.' And, their 'sueseors iihe,
secret, who make pilgiinages from distaritlande
to the old fountain-head of their rites and cera.
monie, can yet read upon eacli massive pile,
graven in' hieroglyphic character, Ihtle 'dedication'

CHAPTER Is
THE MYSTIC TIE.

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

f 4


I

MELUKE.

8                                THE MA
of youth were ever in training at the chieftain's
kiosk, where most of then soon forgot their na-
tive Circassian or Albanianhomes. - There, want
had been their portion until their relatives sold
them to the slave-trader. But if they possessed
sufficient intelligence and manly beauty to tempt
the Mameluke purveyor, they at once became
the favored youth ofEgypt. French and ltalian
instructors stored their -minds, while veterans
taught them how to manage Arabian steeds, to
poise the lance, and to wield the scimitar with
deadly skill. And, as a stimulus to exertion, of
body and of mind, each one knew that when
death or old age caused a vacancy in the band
of leaders, the best qualified slave was selected
to fill it. Rich amor,, fis, horses, sq4 1lkthat-
a follower of the Pto hetcan deqit, were thek e-
forth his.
Our story commences with the promotion of
one of these Mameluke cadets, named Osmanli.
He had been purchased when young, much to
the surprise of the slave-dealer, who could not-
imagine that such a young stripling would ever
make an athletic warrior. In this opinion his
purchaser secretly concurred, but a peculiar
mark, tattooed in blue characters upon the b Yqp
arm, touched the Mameluke's heart. Hazarding
his reputation as a knowing purchaser, he sent
the lad up to Cairo, and soon (aw with great
satisfaction, that those who jested at his judg-
ment would be deceived. Ere he had attained
6y'sixteenth year,.young Osmanli was undoubt-
doly 'te first among the cadets.  He spoke
Feich and Italian with fluency, had read the,
Koran, and was a skillful engineer. And, while
his naturally fmXte intellect was enriched far in.
adVance of his comrades, his bodily.powers had
so maturedthat he excelled them in all athletic
sports andarlike exercises. Eminently hand-
somi, as though a sculptor had moulded his
formnhe displayed in every feature a spirit.9f the
manliest daring anid valor. Thick,glossy blacl;
hair iaved gracefUy over his noble brow, for,
the" melukes did not shave their heads (like
th'ei-Noslems) until they had.made a pilgrim-
age to Mecca.    is bright blue eyes sparkled
with vigorousthought, aId his countenance, al-
though o'ercast by a hue,of deep,settled thogt-
fulness, wore a .epial sincerity of expression,
whiceould notfailto inspire confidence.
&amp;everthefess, Qamani .was enfranchised and-
promoted without me usual ceremonies and, re-
jQicings. Moui-ad,]ey sentihim, with his,4frnan,
or commission,.a gorgous suit of chain armor,

on whose bright steel links were enamelled quaint
devices in virgin gold. His old protector, whose
cheek flashed with proud delight as he gazed on
the chivalric form  of his once deprecated pur-
chase, sent him a fleet Arabian courser, and his'
comrades, *ho loved and respected him, joined
their scanty funds for the purchase of a scimitar
with which a spider-web or a steel casque could
be severed-so keen and yet so staunch was its
wavy blade. Yet, there was no solemn investi-
ture of arms in the mosque. No mimic warfare
honored the admission of the favored recruit.
The Iiosk of the Bey did not, as was the custom,
resound with warlike songs, nor did the warriors,
as they enjoyed their pipes and coffee, witness,
the ,yoluptuous dance pfthe Almeh girls, to the
mio ofthe tambour and'the aestanets. More
'sei-los matters occupied the thoughts'of all.
Strangers had invaded the land!I A messen-
ger from Alexandria had brought word, about a
fortnight previous, that a squadron had cast an-
chor in the-bay of that city. The next day, tid-
ings came that an army, landing on the beach,
had soon effected an entrance through the ruin-
ous city walls, and were occupying the once
prou capital of Cleopatra.
To the Mamelukes, who regarded themselves
as invincible lords of the Nile valley, this intelli-
geuce -seemed at first incredible. But it was
soon confirmed, and their surprise was converted
into, rage when they received copies of procla-
:tatiols conciliating the harmlessjigyptians by
fIlttering their animosity against their warlike
despots. "Know ye faitilful," said oneof those
addresses, "that the French, who have destroyed
the vassal power, are the allies of the Sultan and
the enemies of his enemies. "They, come not to
wage war against true Mussulmen, but against
revolting despots. Thrice.1lappy shall theybe
who assist us-blest in their fortune and'inheri-
tance; bul woe to all who arm in defence of the
Maielukes, and fight against us. For them
there is neither recompense nor hope. It is de-
creed, that they shall perish." And to all these
proclamations there was signed "Bonaparte."
Nlo learned~sheik at Cairo had ever heard of that
nanme among those distinguished by hereditary,
rank in Europe. B1ut the Italian professor who
had instructed, the cadets, told them it was a
Corsican soldier, who had carved with his good
sword. a proud reputation, and who had con-
quered'the land 9f the Caesars.
Roused, and aware that it was a contest of ex-
termiw'ation, oI one side or the other, the Mame-

THE' MANEL1JKIL

I
I
j
I3
I

lukes nierved themselves for the eonfietwiththht
feocious spirit that prompts he Iietbstan
at bay, when the hunters invader hor:dent Learn-'
ing that the French were advancing up the river:,
Mourad Bey resolved to-make:a desperate stad
at his head-quarters, where, if he conquered, he
could annihilate his surviving opponents ete
they could retreat to the seashore, Here all his
forces were concentrated, and many a warlike
tribe of Arabs cathe -in from the shores ofithe
Red Sea, -proud to fight -with theMamelkes,'
and eager to aid in extirpating the runbeliev-
ing dogs- that sought to extendI their dominiodn
over the faithful followers of Mahomet. The
sacred green banner was ,unfurled 'before'Mon-
rad. Bey's kiosk, defendedd by -a smallbattery,
whileon either side were entrenehments, reach-
ingon-the one hand to the riverbaNwk, and en'o
the other to 'the very foundations 'of the great
Pyramid.
On the vast plain in front of this line'offorti-
fications, the Moslem'host .arryed. Itself, on the
morning of July 21a, 1798, for the-decigitetom.
bat.  The Mamelukes,' arrayed in light -yet!
highly tempered armor, and bearingthe choicest
weapons manufactured at Damascus, appeared.
invincibleL Arabs, mounted on their desert
steeds, moved in bodies like clouds of dustbefortt
the north wind, and hordes of Nubians,4rmed
with spears and shields; sangthefr discraait
war-songs. It was a gallanthost, well alculated,
to inspire the hearts of its leader withighhopes,'
and to make him  certain of victory ,over'the
comparatively feeble columns of the' French
troops just coming in sight, winding, like ana-
condas, over the sandy plain.'
The sounds of the Tartar drums and the clang-
ing cymbals; the neighing of the horses and the
clash of arms, had attracted all the inmates of
the kiosk, with a solitary exception, to places
where they could gaze upon the proud array of
the champions of their faith. But the inmate of
one richly-furnished saloon' (the latticed windows
of which denoted that it was a portion of the
king's harem) knelt in prayer, unconscious of
the animated scene without. Herstrongly marked
countenance had the olive tinge peculiar to the
Jewish race, but her complexion was neverthe-
less clear .and transparent. Long, silken eye-
lashes, over-arched by thick raven brows, added
to the lustre of her full, clear orbs, which shone
through her tears as the sun beams through an
April cloud. Golden coins were strung on the
braids of her long, jetty tresses, and on the top

f -her-lassically shaped heid was a scarlet a
trimmed with g6ld and gems. A    ight flg    '
yellow silk tunic Was disclosed by ab obi,olWd
embroidered erimson 4 elvet jacket, in th6- fr'
lined sleeves of which nestled arrs'like alabas'M'
And' bound around the delicate waist, wAs ~a
valtible cashmere scarf, Which served asa girdle
to sustain"flowing  ellow silk tirwsers, gathered'
at theankles, where their heavy folds diciose'd
tiry bare feet, partially encased in richly wrdught
slippers.
Judith Fezenzac, for such was the inaiddin's
name, was the only child of a eAvlthy" Je*nh
iretechant at Smyrna, *ho had' sent her to E'-
rope to receive a thorough- edtafon. She em-
parked-for Genoa in an Italiaifnelingda, but-ta
aptitred'by an EgyptiAn cotsair, and expog5el
for sale in the slave-tnarket at Alexandria. I-r'
hat-riis' attracted the attention of the!Nubin
purveyor for the lley'ihareni,-Who immediately
purchased-her, ana seht'heir to his sisterr." 'B t
'*hile on her passage up the Nile, A messetiger'
passed on the bank witli-e'vs of the French'in-
vasion, and when she arrived at Cairo, Modrfi
intent on defending his power,'did not eVea
to glance at the new exotic brought to gracehiiA
seraglio. Meanwhile'*lkdith suffered the agony
fof suspense, and the fear of'a degradation worse
that'death, with a-firm reliatee that the:Gadf
Israel, oi4saac, and of Jacob, would succor-her
in the hbur of iieed.
And n#o, uniiluftiated with'the cause of the
'warlike preparations without, and unihtereitM
by the martial display, she poured forth her soul
in prayer. A captive, she supplicated the God
of her fathers for deliverance, even as he deliv-
ered them, when, centuries before, they were in
bondage on the same soil. Acknowledging his
mighty power, that guideth the hosts of heaven
in their glory, and yet protects the sparrow's
tender brood, she preyed that he might stretch.,-
forth his right arm, and release her from the op.
pressor. Then, with a rich, sonorous voice, she
began to chant a psalm of David, each note
sparkling in its outward gush, with the clearness
and brilliancy of the diamond.
The door was opened suddenly, and Judith,
springing to her feet, instinctively carried her
right hand to the folds of her girdle. A dagger
was there concealed, which she had found in her
room at Alexandria, and she had so nerved her -
heart, that she felt ready to sacrifice her life,
rather than to suffer dishonor.
Osmanli, for he was the intruder, entered he


I

room, his prepo~sqsaipgexterior set off by his,
gorgeos suit- of fe bible chain armor. Judith,
gasd at him for an instant. with an expression.
ofanxiety and doubt, but the kindness stamped
upon his open countenance apparently relieved
her .fega,  crossing her alabaster arms upon
her throbbing chest, she bowed reverentially, and
then cast an imploring glance of resignation.
"Is it the-daughter.of Mordecai Fezenzac "
he inquired, in a rich, musical voice, and in pure,
French.
"I-am that old man's child," was the reply,
in he same tongue.
"Allah be praised I Late last night Ireceived,
from Alexandria, a sign and a token that you-
th  ebild of a, brother-wpre-here in bondage.
LUeJily, the hey. has taken his seraglio guard to
the lines, and 1, lingering behind, have managed
to, enter the sacredespot without being observed.
Every one is without, or upon the terraced roof,
andnow, gentle maiden, escape from the nest
ere the eagle returns."
"The God of Israel be praised !" ejaculated
Judith.
Then, her woman'a heart dictated prudence,
andshe asked:,
",Where wilJ you take me '"
As she put the question, in a - tone which im-
plied doubt, Osmanli noticed a ring of quaint
device on one of -her taperlfingers. Hastily strip-
ping up the sleeve of his coat of mail, and baring
his left arm, be showed her a peculiar emblem,
intlibly marked,.

* 2"See/ said he ,"the same emblem, that is
wroughiupon your ring. Your father, although
I know him not, is my brother, and I am bound
to protectyou."
Judith's eyes flashed with joyful confidence,
and she replied in a gladsome-tone;
"I have often seen that mystical sign, and
never have I known it associated with evil.
Command, and I will obey."
"Hasten, then," said the Mameluke, "and I
will place you in a safe retreat, once used as a
refugeby .the priests of Isis."
Putting on a large mantle, and throwing a
thick veil over her head, Judith intimated that
she was ready, and they left the kiosk., Hastily
traversing the garden, ,they reached a ruined
pile, on the north side of which Osmanli
pushed against a large stone. To the great as-
tonishment of Judith, it revolved, and she was
ushered into an obscure passage. Closing the
massive door behind them, and then opening
another, equally hidden, Osmanli handed Judith
into a vaulted apartment, lighted from above.
It was well supplied with the conveniences of
life, and a table *as covered with food.
"Here," he remarked, "I must leave ypu,
although 1 hope soon to return. Even if I do
not, another will see you restored to your father,
Farewell.",
Before Judith could recover from her aston-
ishment her preserver was gone, and as the outer
door closed after him, the roar of artillery shook
the very earth,      I

0

CHAPTER 1L

THE BATTLE.

VICrotY and glory. The ancient chivalry
of France, who followed the oriflamb under
Bayard and Duqueschir, were not more infatua,
ted in their pursuit of these martial phantoms,
than was every man of the French army in
Egypt. And now, as they saw the Mameluke'
forces drawn up in hostile array, their brave
hearts echoed each defiant beat on their spirit-
stirring drums. On they moved, with erect
bearing, firm tramp, determined eye) and corp-
pressed lip, eager for the hazards of adventurous
action, and submissive to the commands of their
adored leader, whose star had never paled upon
the field of battle. This fixed devotion, mani-
fested by shouts of 1 Long live Bonapartc",
flushed the young general's sallow face with en-
thusiasm, and he glanced. with exultant pride
over his serried bands. His perception quick-
ened, and his iron nerves strengthened, as he
rode through the ranks of the different brigades,
stimulating his well-tried veterans. "' Consider,"
said he, pointing to the Pyramids, "that from
the summits of yonder ,monuments, forty centu-
ries survey your conduct. Act like heroes 1"
inspired by this matchless idea,the French
troops advanced at quick time to the attack,
formed into five ,large squares.. When advane-
ing, the sides of these squares marched " by the,
Sank,* but at th  word "halt;" all face out-,

i
I

ward, and thus formed an impregnable hedge,
enclosing the artillery and the general officers.
Onward they -moved, like so many torrents of
glistening bayonets, and waving plumes, And
flashing sabres, while over the, midst of each
phalanx floated the brilliant tri-colored Alag, that
palladium of republican victory.
At length, raising their war-ory of." Allah-el-
Allah !" the Mamelukes came charging across
the plain, which resounded beneath the thunder
of their horses' hoofs. .Brilliant and valiant as
was the onset, it did not intimidate the French,
who received their assailants at the bayonet's
point, with a murderous fire.' The sun, which
had glistened on the polished arms and accou.
trements on both sides, was soon obscured bythe
smoke which poured 'forth, in circling wreisths
from cannon, muskets, and pistols, to hang in
heavy clouds over a deadly storm of iron hail
and leaden sleet. In vain.did the Mamelukes
rush at full gallop against the French squares.
In vain did they wheel their Arabian steeds,
and endeavor to rein them backward through
the serried pnks of bristling bayonets. Is vain.
when they grew frantic with despair, di4 they
hurl their pistols and their yataghs s int the
faces of the French, or, when their horse. ,wer.
shotdown. crawl along the sand, to hack at the
limbs of their invincible fees. The caln, ute04Y

THE MAMEUKE.

190

*a

a


THE MAMELUKE.

discipline of the French was not to be shaken,
even by the war-bronzed children of the desert.
Band after band, advancing in solid phalanx,
would recoil, staggering before the fiery dis-
charges, like some sturdy ship cast against break-
ers, but return again and again.to the attack,
until the warriors, with their noble chargers,
sank like frail shallops cast upon a rocky coast.
Mourad Bey, his -white charger covered with
foam and spotted with gore, was ever where the
fight raged hottest. One moment, he would
urge a squadron to advance, in the name of the
Prophet, and destroy the unbelievers-and when,
as was always the case, they fell back, he would
check their retreat, as -if determined not to sub-,
mit, but to seize victory from the averted hand
of destiny. Dauntless as an uncaged eagle, his
eye was clear,,and his manner calm, even when
bullets hailed about him, but neither his example
nor the impetuous bravery of his followers could
make any impression against the French squares.
At this disastrous stage of the conflict, Mburad
determined to withdraw his forces up the river.
Calling an attendant spahi to his side, he or-
dered him to summon Oimanli, who had been,
sent, at the head of the cadets able to bear arms,
to tb extremeo'left.
"-Alah lrgr't 1"'.replied theyspahi, "but his
serv*tt Osmnanli:Is net at:hia asti "I saw himn
lastnInthetiesk ofiyour highhess,When ya snt
me-withaatlersfor[the removal of -themraglio."
" In *stf keiosk Where1"-
"Leaving the harem by'the;garden gate."
"(Go#rd    Can it be peesiblei Brit was he
alone"
"He*ainnotypy6ur highness."
A&amp; this mloment the capta~in of theiseraglio
gusiordde sp, and atmoune thatthe Bey's
wivsaamd slaves'had been-sent op ithe viwer.
"AllI" inquired Moud in a      passionate,
-MJ Ipyour highnessBave the Jiishlls,
who*reSreentepe'last week frostaodrinkh'
who hanter yet b&amp;Sked in theshtlightofydW
"$thisrV'r ediitierud 'Mourad, 'aspeghin of
rageVotIvuliWgifs nsdblefiadttes, -for' he  ell
remobW  r&amp;'I(*W  8stfamlijthat !eryioitug/
hatu     FIaVWi  ls i MieN 4ott tk-Aroessl
Thesyhed undbbi    chaply    e    s lhie#
ite4'41, ht-iaenb ffdtdifiat Wiltlartot
thwrrwai ft 14Wtki-,t61 4id

and dispirited, had given the order to charge,
and Mourad, maddened with rage and mortifi-
cation, saw his followers precipitately retreating.
Panic-struck and disorganized, the Mamelukes
sought to escape before the billow of steel which
now swept across the plain, with murderous im-
petuosity. There remained behind a sea of blood
and slaughter,-on which drifted standards and
arms, and which was agitated with the convul-
sive, death-like gasp of the unstilled waves after
an ocean-tempest.
Osmanli had not participated in the contest,
for he had felt it his duty to inform a brother of.
the "mystic tie" where Judith was concealed.
When, at last, he reached the spot where he had
been posted, he found nothing but the corpses of
several comrades, mingled with those of their'
opponents. But the survivors-both the pursued
and the pursuers-had moved on up the river,
and he lost no time in following them, guided
by the noise of the conflict. Hoping to force his.
way through the French, and, to rejoin his-leader,
he took a circuitous route, which led him through
a small village. A garden wall barred his pro-
gress, but his steed cleared it at a bound, and
the Mameluke found himself by the side of two
Frenchmen.
One of these, who wore a sergeant's -unifOrm,
no :sooner saw -Osmanli suddenly-appear, thAn
he wok to his heels. But, the other, who *as
earnestly examining a map, evinced no fear. Of,
slight figure,and rather under the-usuastgture,
there was nevertheless a quiet consciousness of
powernanifested in his -,appearance,-nor did his
unadorned gray unifortn detract the dignity of
hisattititde, or dim the fire of his eye, as,-daw-
ing his slendfr unifotri s*ord, hendvancedito-
wardsthe intruder. - A blow from the yataghfnt
of:Osnianli shivered the feeble weapon into frig-
meatsyetits owner's lipsblanched not, nordid
he display any fear. Again theMamielke raised
Iis well-teapeted blade, but atthat'fhotient his
defenceless - antagonist, witi a p roid gldane- 6T
confidenthope,made simple yetexpiessivesign.
Osmanli's uplifted arm was arrested, as if-by
sorme mighty spell of n'chantment. Sheatiing
'isis,Wapon, he sprang to'the eai-th,'andtadid
'hishstnd-inaamity. It was grasped, and the two
ien who but a moment previous hAd Iben en-
4aged in deadlytrife nowifteihaugdriedly
kiis;which assured themn that their'  thas'
4e eibtkekegib "ittystic tie."
M6ibtb iihdent; AdW ithbg eriSSff"Yen -
P  a  ly' fItch gantidir r~sh

i1to th0 garden., But when they beheld the.ob-
ject of their solicitude unscathed, there burst
from. their throats shout of "Long live Bona-
parte '' -Jt was repeated along.the whole French
line, And Osmanli now knew that his brother
wasino less a personage than the leader of the
French forces.
"Flints and hammers," growled a veteran
sergeant-major. of grenadiers, upon whose coat
sleeves were a dozen badges of good service,
"Flints and hammers, my general,. there just
came -a sergeant to the front, at double-quick
time, crying that you were cagtured-perhaps
killed. Million bombs, we left the eneny to
tak3 care of themselves, and came to the rescue,
You are unharmed-so much the better. But
why are you thus without an escort, and on
foot ?"
"Thanks, thanks, my braves. My horse was
lamed by chance shot, and while my orderly
went to the rear for another, I came in here to
examine my map, that I' might see where we
could drive these infuriated* demons. As for
sergeant-major Sauterre-"
" Present !" said the veteran.
"Ay," continued Bonaparte, "ever present in
the hour of danger. And now, old grumbler,
look after my Mameluke friend here, and bring
him to me after evening parade."
"Flints and hammers! Have you made a
prisoner ?"
"No! I found a brother, and as such I vouch
for him."
The defiant look with which the veteran had
regarded Osmanli softened down into a credulous
expression, but.his doubts were soon'removed.
"Brothers," said Osmanli, in good French,
"I have done my duty-can I not rejoin my
chieftain ?"
"Not:now," replied Bonaparte. "You would
but rush into the very jaws of death. Besides, I
must borrow your horse. This evening, when
all is quiet, you can go if you wishh' Till then,
good-by."
Mounting Osmanli's charger, Bonaparte gal-
loped to the front, where his presence animated
the French with renewed ardor. The Mame-
lukes, completely routed, fled at random, and
strove for individual preservation. Mourad Bey
was'only saved by the strength and speed of his
horse, and in less than four hours after the first
shot was fired, his forces were dispersed, and his
entrenchments were occupied by the French.
The Mussulmen who had gazed upon the bloody

'At
Ii

scene from the minarets and the lofty citadel9f
Cairo, were so-strongly impressed-by the dread-
ful havoc made by the fiery phalanxes before
which Mourad's hitherto invincible legions had
quailed, that they named Bonaparte "El Sooltan
Keber," the "Sultan of lVire."
The bugles now sounded a "recall," and the
victorious . troops were ordered to 'ivouac.
Camp-fires were kindled, and the Pyramids soon,
echoed back patriotic songs, the familiar notes
of which, ri&amp;b with pleasing remembrances,
cheered the.wounded in their ambulances, and
softened the pangs of many a dying veteraa.
Then, again the drams beat-to arms, and again
the long line was formed in martial, array, a
simple "close up" filling all, the death gaps. It
was the evening parade, and just as the-red orb
of day-sank into the molten sands of (he desert,,
Bonaparte rode along the line. His numerous
staff-officers were resplendent with gold lace and
rich embroidery, but the general wore the small
cocked hat, and the simple gray coat, in which
he first won his soldiers' hearts, and which, in
their eyes, were associated with victory. After
the review, the troops were formed in a hollow
square, that Bonaparte, as was his wont, might
address them. He spoke, and such was the si-
lence in the ranks; that every file-closer heard his
clear voice.
"Soldiers !" he said. " I thank you from my
heart, for you have more than sustained your
reputation. Five years ago, the independence
of the French people was threatened; but the
capture of Toulon was the presage of ruin to
our enemies. A year afterwards you defeated
the Austrians at Dego. In the -following year,
you were fighting upon the summits of the Alps.
Two years ago you were contending beneath the
walls of Mantua, and achieved the celebrated
victory of St. George. Last year, you were at
the sources of the Drave on your return from
Germany; Who yould then have ventured to
predict, that to day you should be on the banks
of the Nile, in the centre of the ancient continent !
From th'e Britons, renowned in arts and com-
merce, to the ferocious Arab of the desert, you
fix the attention of mankind. Your destiny is
noble, because-you are worthy of your achieve-
ments and of the reputation you have acquired.
You will die with honor like the unburied brave
around us, whose names I shall have inscribed
on yonder Pyramid, or you will return to your
country, covered with laurels, and exciting the
admiration of all nations."

a

I I

THE, MAKELCKE.,


14                    TME E )AI . KEH

Enthusiastic shouts hailed this eloquent ha-
rangue; and the soldiers, leaving their ranks,
thronged around their idolized leader, who thus
won their affectioils. After the review, he estab-
lished his quarters in the kiosk of Motrad Bey,
and lost no time in sending for Osmanli. The
young Mameluke,confused by the startling events
of the day, and looking upon'the chief mover as
little short of a divinity, was awe-struck as he
entered the general's presence. -'But Bonaparte,
with kind sympathy, soon made him feel that as
brothers they were equal, and then he asked
him to name some boon.'
"For myself," said'Osmanli, " have nothing
to ask. I but performed my duty. I am in
your hands. Yet for another I ask protection.
A Jewish maiden, who is the daughter of a
brother, was yesterday a prisoner in the kiosk.
It was my good fortune to rescue he'in the con-
fusion which preceded the combat, and she is
now concealed in yonder ruin. Deal with her,

mighty lord, as the child of our brother,'who Is
in peril."
Sauterre immediately received orders' to accom-
pany Osmanli with a file of men, and escort Ju-
dith to the. kiosk.' Hour after hour, entombed
in the ruin, had she listened with anguish to the
noise of the battle, a thousand fears tormenting
her brain, and when Osmanli again entered the
tomb, she uttered a shriek of joy, and then sank
senseless.
"Million bombs," grumbled Sauterre. "She
doesn't know that our general has sent for her."
Recovering, and assured of protection, Judith
returned to the kiosk, and met with a kind re-
ception, Bonaparte assuring her that he would
soon restore her to her father. That night she
again occupied her splendid apartment in the
harem, with a joyful sense of freedom from that
degradation which had before made its luxuries
hateful and its beauties odious,

CHAPTER Ill
uraGLIan LRArJOtJSY AROUSEDs

Titm army commanded by General Bonaparte
had embarked with such secrecy, that when the
English government learned its departure, it had
not the slightest degree of the destination of the
hostile armament. : Great, therefore, was the
excitement in London, when intelligence was
received by a trading vessel that the conquerorr
of Italy " had captured Malta, on his'way to Al-
exandria. He was undoubtedly bent upon the
conquest of Egypt, "the theatre," to use his own
words, of "mighty empires, where all the great
revolutions of the earth had arisen, where mind
had its birth, and all religions their cradle, and
where six hundred millions of men still had a
dwelling-place."  Moreover, it was affirmed that
through this land the ambitious young French-
man hoped to reach the Bkitish possessions in
India, and to found a new empire, extending
from the mouths of the Nile to the banks of
the Ganges. This idea, though vague and ex-
travagant, roused the British nation, which still
smafted from the loss of its American colonies,
and nothing was left undone that afforded the
slightest prospect of thwartig Bonaparte's plans,
Large reinforcements were sent to Lord Nelson,
whose fleet had been seeU by the French frigates,
as they sailed past Candia on their way to Alex-
andria, shrouded by a friendly haze---a fact which
was highly annoying to tbo British tars, And

secret agents, well provided with gold, were d&amp;.
spatched to every accessible port on the Medi.
terranean.
Prominent among these agents was Colonel
Hudson Lowe, a young Englishman, who added
most of the frivolities and many of the crimes of
fashionable life to a malignant and treacherous
disposition. Detected when an ensign in an at-
tempt to cheat at the card-table, he only escaped
an ignominious dismissal from the British army
by accepting a commission in the "Itediterra-
fean regiment." - This was composed of rene'
gades, Corsicans, Italians and Spaniards; outz
casts of every degree and of every dye, from thd
taurderer to the debauchee, who sought refuge
under the English flag, and preferred the iron
severity of military discipline to the punishment
from which they had escaped. Admirably fitted
to rule such desperadoes, young Lowe was raps
idly promoted, and at the siege of Toulon, ho
was promised his rank in one of the regular regi'
ments of infantry, if he would but kill or capture
Bonaparte, whose sudden appearance lent conA
quering vigor to the French forces. He was un
successful. General O'Hara was as Unsuccessful
as he had been when second in command to Lord
Cornwallis at Yorktown, in Virginia.  Colonel
Lowe, thwarted in his hopes, vowed vengeance
against Napoleon. Bonaparte. England-could

4

i

I


,16                                THE MA
not have selected a more fitting tool, and the
commencement of his operations showed how
deeply he could plot and project.
"The Albatross," a noted smuggling cutter,
had been seized a few weeks previous, and con-
fiscated. Colonel Lowe saw.her at Portsmouth,
and obtained her for his cruise, enlisting her for-
mer captain and crew, who were delighted to get
out of'jiil. Thoroughly sea-worthy, she was a
beautiful craft, with sharp bows, great beam,
bright copper,.and a run clean as a racer's fet-
locks. Her lower masts were clean-scraped and
brightly varnished, sustaining taper topmasts
painted white, with many a mazy line of well
laid cordage. Her well cut canvass was as white
as the snowy foam at her bows when going be-
fore a stiff breeze; nor was anything lacking-
fore-topmast staysail, jib, mainsail, upper kite,
studding-sails aloft and alow, ringtail-nothing
,wanting. Nor did a more gallant crtft ever
float.
Leaving England's chalky cliffs, the "Alba-
tross" cleaved the waves like a wedge, and her
crew, overjoyed at receiving their liberty, worked
with alacrity and spirit. The tempestuous Bay
of Bis'ay was sopn traversed, the rocky citadel
of Gibialtar was passed, and the anchor was
dropped, after a quick run, in the pleasant har-
bor of Ajacdio, the principal City in te island of
Coisica.' Here, Where Bonaparte wasborn, the
wily Englishman sought men who would execute'
his schemes with zest, and felt certain that he
coul&amp;ind them. Beautiful as is'tle face of the
island, the'happiness of its inhabitants is marredI
by a horrible system of family feuds.
The vendetta, as this barbarous social code
is calledobliges all the male relations of a mur-
dered man;to the third degree-of consanguinity,
to aveitge his death. Btirglary, counterfeiting,
poisdning-i fact, few if any of. the ci-imes
which spring from a refinement of civilization-
are abiost unknown in 'Corsica. But the vie-
timgto a savage thirst of family vengeance are
nunterous.  Merciless and relentless, the self-
apiointed ,executioners of the vendetta do not
even 6iV6 their doomed enemies a chance to fight'
for'ife. Amid' the mountains are large plains
of table l-nd, cdveredwith the luxurious growth
of the inbutus, the myitle, and the gum cistus.
Here the exekntione-s -of here 'tary vengeance
will li .roneealed for hours-aj even days, until
the Adotl'ed,' itihn'passes'n 4nsfol usly along
one 6ftte'te* t Mks'*hish are'formed' through
the'hifueo;:tdate by Eidt1l aid horses than by

AMELUKE.

the labor of man. A bullet sends the unfortu.
nate man to his last account, and a rough wooden
cross marks the spot where he fell.
Day after day did Colonel Lowe stroll about
Ajaccio and its vicinity, endeavoring to find
some one who cherished a vendetta against the-
object of his hatred. At last, he learned that
Carlo de Bonaparte, the general's rather, had,
some thirty years previous, accidentally killed
the father of oneGiacomo, an honest wine-seller.
The emissary at once repaired to his shop, and
ordered a flask of the best wine in the-cellar,
which soon sparkled on the table.
"And now, Giacomo," said Colonel Lowe,
with a cold yet gracious smile, "sit down and
join me in the discussion of your wine."
"Thanks, excellency," replied the frank look-
ing, good-natured host, but his quick intellect
instantly mistrusted his entertainer. English
officers were frequent visitors at Ajaccio, but he
nivest before had known one of them to drink
and chat with a peasant. Neither did he like
the distrustful glances cast from  beneath the
shelter of his long and lowering red eye-lashes.
"Your townsman Bonaparte," soon observed
Colonel Lowe, "is making quite 'a noise in the
world. It is perhaps lucky that he did not'stop
af Corsica on his way to Egypt, or your ven-
detta 'might have given him trouble."
"My vendetta, excellency ?"
"0, I know all about it. Nor is it wrong'fbr
you to wish to avenge your father's death. Lis-
ten,I my' good fellow. You-know me. I have
commanded your countrymen. I speak your
language. Well, I too have a -vendetta against
Napoleon' Bonaparte. Join me, and you shall
be well paid.- Gratify your vengeance, and wealth
awaits you. " Think of this offer, and should-you
decide to- accept my proposition, cpme on board
yonder cutter, prepared for a cruise up the Le-
vant. E'ood day."
And'fiinging a purse of gold upon the tab,
the Eiglish officer strode away, leaving Giacoiiao
in a bewildering state of surprise and indignation.
" endetta-wealth;-vengeance !I"  e ejacu-
laied. "Why, if my poor father'was accidentally
shot by Monsientde Bonaparte, did he not pro-
videfor iy tdther and all of Us children'? And
was not Madame Letitia ever solicitous for our
comfort? And Wapoleon-why I sat on the
sante 'bench with him at Madatne Mttselli's
soK66o; And i-re "sport we used to have, dowron
th  beach, firing the little 'biass cannon gien
hri by his untle Lucien. .Why did Inxt4'brike

THE MAMELUEE.

down that insolent red-coat, instead of listening
to his wicked words ?" And the honest coun-
tenance of the wine merchant glowed with indig-
nation as he spoke.
"Bravo! bravissimo !" responded a musical
voice, and' a heavy cypress vine that shrouded
the window was pushed to one side, disclosing a
small, emaciated looking man, wearing an ec-
clesiastical costume.
"Saints preserve us !" exclaimed Giacomo.
"Is that you, Father Jerome, and have you
overheard the offer made me by that fiend in a
red coat ?"
"Ay, and you must accept of it ?"
"Not I ! What? Murder my schoolmate-
my benefactor's child I"
"No-but preserve his life."
And the priest soon convinced Giacomo that
by accompanying Colonel Lowe, he could not
only thwart his evil designs, but perhaps avert
the assassin's dagger from Bonaparte. Leaving
his shop in charge of his sister, and hastily pack-
ing a few articles of clothing in 'a light basket,
the wine-seller repaired to the quay. Here he
engaged a boat, and soon stood on the white
deck of the "Albatross." Colonel Lowe had
seen him approach, and welcomed him on board,
assigning him a berth with the mates. Prepara-
tions were madefor sailing the water casks were
sent ashore-and filled, the new hands came on
board, and as the sun rope the next morning, the
"Albatross " left the harbor, like an imprisoned
bird set free. Among the gazers on the quay,

"I
'1
I
/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /

17

Giacomo could distinctly see Father Jerome, and
as the wind filled the sails, the good priest raised
his hands, as if to bless the shield so providen-
tially interposed between his loved pupil and a
vindictive enemy.
Giacomo had always been fond of the sea,
and he was delighted with the cutter, which was
a man-of-war in miniature. Four handsome
brass guns were on either side of the neat deck,
and amidships a heavier piece, mounted on a
revolving carriage, was sheltered by the long-
boat. Cutlasses and boarding-pikes were ranged
against the bulwarks, nor was there a rope out
of place, or a spar that was not symmetrically
squared. The crew, which had been doubled in
number at Corsica, was composed of sturdy,
daring seamen, most of them old smugglers.
Nor was there, in the whole British navy, a more
gallant commander than Jack'Norman. The cut-
ter was his idol, Its construction had swallowed
up all his savings and his wife's dowry, for he
felt certain that could he but escape the custom-
house officers with her for one year, he would
acquire a competence. But he had'not reckoned
upon treason, and a falsp friend betraye4him
on his first voyage. All was lost.    I.
Colonel Lowe, however, came like a guardian
.angel, and the smuggler was 'iow cheered' by
the hope that, could Bonaparte be captured or
killed, his craft would be restored to him. Need
it be added that he used every caution to for-
ward the plans of his master, and was stimulated
by his nantical pride.

I


9

CHAPTER IV.
THE EDAUTrrtTL JEWESS.
TisUED with victory, the French army re: Sauterre, and nmany a hundred glasses' did she
niined during some twelve weeks in the vicinity sell to those who fancied the spirit-stirring songs
of Cairo. In lower Egypt, the soldiers, who had of her father, wath their inspiring chorus. The
ben accustomed to the voluptuous climate and favorite was a rude ditty, improvised by Louise
theplantiful fertility of Italy, murmured loudly. herself'to a welknown air, and the .chorus was
'ie heat of the tropical sun, the frequent want often taken up by one corps after another, until
of water; the blinding sands, and 'the swarms of it rang from the Pyramids to the citadel of Cairo,
peitiferous insects,' hid combined to increase and the echoes died away upon the wastes of the'
their discontent. But when, after the defeat. of desert,
3intarad I"ey,'they revelled in the kiosks of the
ailues, theirs was a happy life. "On dut           "Let everycomrae risehvoie
disdito -off  i   dissipation," hai esvr been      -    cheer the hero of his choice,
theinoUt"of French troops, who vauntingly                     ivala compagnie,
boas thet they can live as fast as their columns             Viva la, eis la, viva Pamou,
advance, or drink ashard as they can fighl  To V a compagnie-
the debauched conquerors of Egypt, the present      "With sabre, gun, and march, of toil,
repose was delightful. The spacious gardens                   ia la compagnie,
were full of luscious fruits and beautiful flowers,  We've conquered on this sandy soil,
interspersed with arbors of vines, loaded with the           Viva La compagnie,
Via la,-viva la, -viva L'amour,
finest grapes in the world. In the kiosks'were                Va Lacompagnie       ,
rich carpets, damask-lined apartments, vases of
perfume, fragrant tobacco, and store rooms filled   "We gather fruit from the high palm tree,
with delicious confectionary. Neither.were fair              Viva la compagnie,
And-anlthe old musty wonders we see,
ones lacking-blushing Hebes who ministered                   Visa la compagnie,,
in these pleasant retreats-for hundreds of beau-             Visa la, viva la, viva Lamour,
tiful Circassians, emancipated from the convent-             Visa la compvagnie.
like seclusion of the harems, lived in a new        "But we're sick of the sun and burning sand,
phase of existence. Ready pupils, they were                  Viva la compagnie,
soon able to mingle in the joyous dance, and to      And we sigh for France, our dear native land,
join in the varied anusements in which the light-           Visa La compagnie,
headed Frenchmen indulged, multiplying pleas-                Visa la, iva la, isa l'amour,
Visa la compcgnie.
ure into many fantastic shapes.
The most popular evening resort was the can-     "But let us be merry before we start,
teen of the grenadier regiment, which was the                riva la compagnie,
body-guard of General Bonaparte, and was sta- And pledge the health of nonapaite
tioned near the kiosk he occupied. The pretty                             ia amour,
vivandiere was the daughter of sergeant-major                Viva la compagnie."

11

THE' MA

But whilst the sounds of revelry echoed
through the camp, all was quiet at head-quar-
ters-ofllcers and soldiers indulged in luxurious
dissipation,. but the iron-nerved mind of the
young commander-in-chief was never relaxed.
During the day-time, he received deputations
from the Egyptians, and framed granite edicts,
upon which he hoped to rebuild the glorious
empire of Isis. And. at night, long after the
violin and the castanet had ceased to inspire the
merry dance, and when no sound met the ear
save the measured'tread of the sentries, or the
challenge of the patrols, the future emperor ma-
tured those gigantic plans which afterwards en-
abled him to gle France, and to sway all Eu-
rope.
Judith was domesticated at the kiosk, and
soon became a delightful companion for Bona-
partej who ever retained his Jomestic habits.
Nor was it long ere he discovered her superior,
vocal powers, and persuaded her to receive mu-
sical instruction.from one of his .band masters,
an Italian who was well versed in his art. She
proved herself an apt scholar, and was in a few
weeks Able to sing the general's favorite airs,
with a purity of intonation, and a brilliancy of
execution, that captivated her hearer.
"Decidedly," remarked Bonaparte, one even-
ing, after listening to one of these improvised
concerts,  "decidedly, Mademoiselle, Judith,
you must go on the stage. I will promise you
a good reception at the Paris opera, and allthese
officers will take tickets to your benefit?'
The stafE officers (as staff officers gways-do)
echoed their general's wish; and from that mo-
ment the younggirl's thoughts were all centered
in a desire for professional success. Her instruc-
tor, who did not fancy-military discipline, fanned
the flame, and:Judith listened with delight to his
account of the ovations paid to distinguished,
vocalists by his warm-hearted countrymen. Bou-
quets,.laurel-wreaths, serenading, processions-
all served to increase the intoxication of the'
pupil, and to stimulate her to fresh exertion.,
Osmanli was also an inmate at head-quarters,
having been admitted to the general-staff, with
the rank of "captain-interpreter.' The young
manhadibeen denounced by Mourad Bey as a
renegade and the faithful'followers of the prophet
were enjoined to kill him, as a "dog " who had
forsaken his-creed, and his master-who had vio-
lated the sanctity of a harem and carried off one
of its inmates-who now dwelt with the infidel
French, and ate their bread. "Accursed-thrice

lELUKE,                                19
accursed be Osmanli the renegade," proclaimed
the teachers in the mosques, after morning,
prayers; "let him be swept from the earth'
And the hearers, bowing reverentially towards
Mecca, responded, "Allah alone is great )and
Mahomet is his prophet-let the renegade Or
manli die 1"
.Little cared Osmanli for this excomminiba-
tion, for the charms of Judith had completely
enthralled his heart, and the giant intellect of
Bonaparte had captivated his will. Nor was it
to be wondered at that the young Jewess had
fascinated the yoting soldier, for he had never
before enjoyed the charms of female society, and
now, all his dreams were more than'realized.
Harmonious and lovely to behold, and to think
of, there was not a solitary fragment of her
character out of proportion with the rest. Grace-
ful, ethereal and gifted, she appeared to the young
Mameluke like the animated statue of a Grecian
sculptor,, inspired by all the gifts of education
and of refinement. Hour after hour did ,he lin.
ger on the divan where she wrote from Bons-
pirte's hurried dictation, and gaze on her with
rapturous delight, treasuring her, every smile
with miser-like avarice. A new feeling-a new
sense-entered his very soul, and'her presence
.was the sunlight of his life, endowing all things
with animation during its efftlgence, but leaving
them dark when it disappeared. .Andhis heart,
like the smothered bulb of the hyacinth, longer
to send forth pure flowers of affection, that, if she
but deigned to encourage their growth, could
bask in the brightness of her eyes, and expand
into the beauties of that perfect;,recipiocated love, '
which is the choicest reality of life.
But Judith, although she could not but have
perceived'the depth and intensity of the young
Matneluke's affection, -gave him but little- en-
couragement that it was reciprocated. Love, In
'true female hearts, is too holy and fervent a pas-
sion to be kindled by every passing sparks but
requires earnest and continued fanning ere its
refined flame blazes with steady light, exerting
over its possessor the vivifying influence of an
all enlivening passion. Occasionally, when Ju-
dith would allude to her past dangers, Osmanli
would hope, for her cheek would glow with
gratitude, and her eye *ould beam with unntter
able affection. Then, a cloud would seem to
shoot athwart her heart, and her manner would
relapse into a rigid, icy coldness, that effectually
checked any declaation on the part of ier
admirer.


I

THE- MAELtl

Nor wag' Osmanli alone in his adiiration of
theubeautiful Jewess. Nearly every other officer
attached to the general's staff atterlpted to en-
-age ;her ailfetions,- but none ofthem were ao
marked in heir attentions as*s Alphonse Mar-
gey. They-but sought relief froni the monotony
of camp life, by a display of their politehess and!
of their gallantry-.but:Margry *as inspired by'
&amp; fantic'pastion., He was about thirty-five years
of -age, tall, robust, and appearing to, great. ad-
vantage in his, dashing hussar uniform, 'decked
with-the-rich embroidery to which, as lieutenant-
,colonel, he was entitled  Well informed, witty
almost to sarcasm, capricious, And imperious to
excess, Colonel Margry was equally noted, for
is deferential obsequiousness towards his supe-
-rior officers, and for his haughty'demeanor to-
wards those ,under his command Possessing,
the true egotism and. cynical gallanity of his na-
tion, he blazoned forth his passion for Judith by
many a marked act of devotion, and soon-he-
calne piqued at her apparent indifference to his
.professions. Torsome time, he persevered in,
hI -attentions, but Judith was so decided in *her'
cooltreatmenttowards him, and so unmoved by,
hielprotestations of love, from which-she invari-
ablyturned the conversation without even notic-
ingi then, that he became'enraged.. And when
,hesa* with what attention she listened to 'Os-
nanli, Whose eyes beamed 'with confidence and"
hope, he felt that he was eclipsed. He, Alphonse
Margry, lieutenant-colonel of hussars, and senior
ald-de-camp to General Bonaparte, was slighted'
for an obscure Mameluke, of unknown iaient-
age.- Rankling was the wound thus inflicted
upon his vanity,:nor was it the less painful' be-
cause it touched an unfathomed. spot in his heart.,
For somO days he watched the young lovers
with an uneasy and jealous gaze, evidently hop-
iag that Judith would, discover his many charms
and superior qualifications. But when-he found
all his attentions repulsed, his countenance as-
saimed a sardonic expression of revengeful ha,-
fred, , whenever he was near his more favored
rival. . At last; the volcano of his pent-Up pas-
sions -burst forth. , Ho had sent Osmaili tda
'illage some miles up the river, to make arraigi.
monts- for forage, And determined to profit by
his absence. Patting on his handsomest uniform,
and arraying himself in.a manner which he evi-
dently considered irresistible, he went to Judith's
apartment, and knocked.
"Enter," in the well'known tones.of the bccu-
pant, dispelled a slight foreboding which he had

had, that lie would not-be received; anii&amp;h open-
ed the door in the full confidence of :success.
There .sat Judith, busy with her embroidery -
frame, and by her, side, holing-au open book
,from which he had evidently been 'reading, sat
Osmanli! Margry started-: fchis cup of joy
was thus snatched away; and. w ith eyes that
flashed. fire, he said, in a fierce tone-
"YouMamneluke traitor, why did you-not go
,where I sent you?  If you.are afraid of'the death
-your cowardly desertion will yet gain for you,
strip off your French uniform, and- become a
lady's wgiting-maidat once."
- Oemanli sprang to his feet. "What ?" he
exclaimed. "Traitor, coward, deserter1"
"Each-and all. . Now go to the guard-house,
like a whipped cur, and wait there until your
Corsican master ean punish you,"  And the
.colonel's face glowed with rdge, and jealousy,
and disappointment.
Osmanli drew 'his sabre, but at that moment
a man who lad been reposing oi adivan, in a
situation where he was-not visible to Colonel
Margry, jumped up, and stood between the two.
The colonel turned suddenly pale, and his
bloodless lip quivered as he attempted to stam-
mer out an excuse. Bonaparte, hiamnchidreaded
commander, stood before him. .very angry
word had been heard.-     -
"The-Corsican, Celonel Margry." and Bona-
parte emphasized each offensive word, "regrets
that an officer of his staff should be forced to
associatW with a traitor* a coward, a deserter?'
"General--" stammered the unlucky man.
"Not.a word, sirI You are dismissed from
my staff,.and will at once report- yourself' to the
provost marshal as under arrest. March !
And the crest-fallen- colonel left the' room,
casting at Osmanli a glance fianght with the
deepest hatred.          -
"There," said Bonaparte, ":you see, fair
Smyrniote, the extent of your power, in a negai-
tive sense. Now, exercise it in a positive man-
ner, as an endorsement to Cdptain Osmanl not
to carry this matter further,,upon any consider-
ation."
"But my honor, general V"
. 'Never mind your' honor, a pistol ball will
not mend it, should It be damaged. Besides, I
shall soon have special duties for you, and as for
Margry, he can fight the Turks to his heart's
content when we reach Syria. BSo remain peace.
ful, and how go on with the boqk you were read-
ing when that hot-headed fellow entered."

CHAPTER V.
AN ATTEMPTED CONFESSION.

ON one of those calm and beautiful evenings, illuminating the gorgeous flowers with a wave-
such as only the clime of Egypt cafi boast, Os- like light.
manli and Judith strolled out into the garden of  Bordering this terrestrial paradise was the river
the kiosk, upon the river-bank. It was that Nile, flowing majestically along, placid as the
witching hour, when'the stars come forth, one brow of a slumbering infant. On its broad 'Ar-
after another, from the azure vault of eternity, face was a variety of large barges, their white
-to illuminate our earth with the silvery light of sails having a spirit-like look, as they glided
distant worlds. The air was heavy with the along before the evening breeze. In smaller
perfume of the scented nilica and blooming aca- boats, hardy natives tugged at the oar, as they
cia, while in the quiet light new beauty was ferried across swarthy Nubians or bearded Turks,
added to the flowery tenants of the varied par- fair-browed Frenchmen, or homeless Arabs.
terres. There were-, the gay blossoms of the Fruit-boats were also passing, laden with rose-
scarlet pomegranate, and the pure white blooms hued peaches, luscious melons, and grapes.in speh
of the orange--the sky-blue water-lotus, and the luxurious profusion,that their clustering branches
golden hemnasagara-the rich green clusters of often hung over the gunwales, rippling the water.
palm-leaves, and the luscious luxuriance of the 'But neither Osmanli nor Judith appeared eon-
fig-trees ;-all forming a scene of joyous verdure, scious of the beauties which nature and art-had
which no inhabitant of a frigid zone could even thus lavishly spread around them. The spirit
imagine, in the wildest flights of a poetic fancy., of each appeared chastened by melancholy pre-
Along the water's edge stood a roW of giant sentiments, nor were many words interchanged
sycamores, the white branches of which were en- ere they arrived at their favorite evening resort.
twined in many a caress, while they supported It was a rustic summer-house, hanging over the
the fragrant yet wanton honeysudkle-that living bank of the Nile, and enshrined among weeping
emblem of woman's weakness, and of her cling- willows; the long boughs of which drooped with
ing, tenacious love. The birds had finished their quiet pensiveness, like the eyelids of a sleeping
evening songs, but some hard working bees still beauty.
hummed merrily as they returned, richly laden,  Seated here, Osmanli made seveal attempts
from their epicurean forays. Myriads of fire- to keep up a general conversation, but his fair
flies danced erratically-over luxuriant parterres, companion answered only in monosyllables, and
2

4


THE MAMELUKE.

the rapidity with which he passed from one topic
to another, showed how impossible it was to
escape from the dominant idea of his heart.
Let him urge his thoughts wherever he would,
they would rush back and revel in a glow of ad-
miration, until forced out again, like the mes-
senger dove, to find no resting place.
Just then a "kandja," or barge, came very
near the bank, as it ascended the stream. It
was manned by a dozen Arabs, and as they bent
to their huge oars, they joined in the chorus of a
song chanted by the helmsman. Their voices
were harsh, and the air was monotonous, yet
there was something pleasing in the chorus:
"Ty'eb-ty'eb-en ni moobarek !"
"Good-good-is the blessed Nile," repeated
Osmanli, " and a blessed river it is to the Egyp.
tians. Indeed, the Mahometans say that if their
prophet had but tasted its waters, he would have
prayed for terrestrial immortality, that he might
have enjoyed it forever. To me, though," and
the speaker's heart beat fast, while he turned his
eloquent eyes upon Judith, as if to study the
effect of his every word, "to me, though, the
NAP is but an. emblem of my own existence.
No one knows where it rises, neither am I aware
were I first drew breath, or from what source
my blood flowed into life. It first is known
anong the barbarous Abyssinians, even as I, in
eadylife, found myself among the Mamelukes.
And, it pursues its course, for many a hundred
milea, without receiving a single tributary streani
-avea--even-ay, dear Judith, as my life has
been passed in heart loneliness. Here, having
leftbehind the desert and the squalid villages, it
laves this lovely garden-and I, dear Judith,
now bask in the sunlight of your smile. 01
cannot my love meet a response? cannot_.-"
' BtopI For my'sake, stop I" exclaimed Ju-
dith. When the young soldier commenced his
ayuwaL, she had raised her full eyes with invol-
unny. surprise, then, turning pale, and her
whole frame quivering with emotion, she inter-
trued-him:
l" Nay," he continued, with an imploring ges-
tute, "listen to me F"
"Not another word in such a Strain. You

saved my life, Osmanli, and during that life you
will find me grateful. Lt us be friends-true
friends. Let me be as your sister. Let me see
you leave all your Mahometan habits, and rise
high under the powerful protection of General
Bonaparte. But-" and here, her voice falter-
ing, she-burst into tears.
The tender despondency with which this re-
fusal had been uttered, saddened and influenced
Osmanli, whose bursting heart could find no
words for utterance. No words could have ex-
pressed his anguish.
At that moment a heavy cloud swept before
the face of the moon, and east a deep shadow
over the river.
"See !" said Judith.' "That you now love
me I do not deny, and my refusal to reciprocate
your affection, like yonder cloud, may darken
your heart. But as the river will flow on-will
again become bright-and will to-morrow derive
-more brilliancy from the sun than it just received
from the moon, so your heart will find others
who will add more to your happiness than I can."
.1 e"er I never I" exclaimed the sorrow-
stricken young man. "But can you give me no
hope ?"I
" Osmanli," replied the maiden. "Brother
Osmanli-I am one of a peculiar people, and
from early youth- have been taught that God
commands me to honor my father. Perchance,
in years to come, we may all meet, and then, if
you persevere in your flattering appreciation of
my poor oelf, I shall refer you to him. But.-
decidedly--I Cannot, until he approves your suit,
grant you the least encouragement. Good-night.
May the God of Israel bless you."
And ere the sorrow-stricken youth could re-
cover from his astonishment, she had left him.
Late that night did he walkthrough that garden,"
heedless of a severe rain storm whichraged after
midnight. What a change had that day brought
about?  In the morning everything looked
bright, for his future pathway was illuminated
by hopes of his love, which, like the silver planet
of the night, tinged everything with its own-
beauty. Now, that brilliant sky was weereast by
the douds of disappointment-the glitteringper-
spective had ad into a desert landscape.

CHAtTER VIL
THE rGICIAl.
BONAPARTE not only treated the sacred insti. of parchment,- Then, placing the fbmnaee be--
tutions of the Egyptians with respect, but con-- tween himself and the boy, he ordered his -r-
formed to many of their customs and ceremonies. vant to cast in aromatic perfumes, at-short iter-
Even their predilections in honor of the marvel- vals. The fragrant ingredients snapped an4
lous were humored, and one evening he consent- sparkled, sending up graceful columns of uso
ed to receive a visit from 'a noted soothsayer. towards the ceiling. Then, taking thibye
All of the principal officers were invited to wit- hand in his, he poured some ink in it,-making a
ness the seer's performances, though nothing but large bright spot. At this, he directed theboy
respect for their general kept manyof them from  to look attentively, and to narrate what he saw.
openly scoffing at the very idea of foretelling Then waving his hands, he repeated an ineaita-
future events.                            tion until the boy's lips began to move. AN
The magician entered, accompanied by a small others were silent,, and even the most incredulus
boy. He was tall, strongly built man, with a listened attentively.
long black beard, and wearing a green turban, -1"I see," said the boy (Osmamli tranglatiughis
to show his descent from the Prophet Mahomet. words)," many houses. Iti a city. Throagh
Leaving his-slippers at the door, ie made alpro. it runs a rivet, acrds which are many bridges
found preference, and asked the general if he I enter a house. A lady is there ,#nveiled. She
wished to possess oracular knowledge. Osmanli is reading a letter. Over thefire-place is i pit,
acted as translator, ad infrmed him that, as t're of an officer. She finishes the letter, and
he possessed supernatural gift, he should know then openinga-drawer, takes out a fan. Upeuihe
what infbrrhation was most desired. fan is a small picture of the sante officer, whie-
"Tell the-Sultai," said,, he, -"that I can not she kisses."
only *ine the interrogatorles which lis heart  "Bravo I" nitert-upted Bonaparte. "I wi1
propounds, bat cananawer them."  -       admit, gentleseen, that I desired to see Mada
A domestic then brought ,in a fdrnaee, flled Bonaparte, and I know that my picture is -t
with lighted thareosi, a feed pea, an inkstand, only on the wall of her boudoir, but that she as
and some strips dfaertan  The ineantation a fan-on Which Is my miniatre. but yoafl
was then-cco meedbyti-aghda.; who wrote can try him-I hava but one question nore -
senwunintlligble chif    paoh a long strip.  The magician repeated his inetation , * ad

2

I


24                             , THE MA
the boy again prophesied. "Many years have
passed, and the warrior is dead. He breathes
his last on an island. He is followed to the
tomb by soldiers in scarlet uniforms."
"Not bad," again interrupted Bonaparte. "I
wished, gentlemen, to know where I should,
breathe my last, and itjsppears.that I shall die
King of Engla'nd, and be buried on that foggy
island by my conquered foes. A rare idea. - But
lot us hear abdut the rest of you."
. The other officers now.interrogated the boy,
and laughed at what they regarded as flattery.
Some,'he predicted, would wear crowns, all
would attain rank and fortune. Yet to three or
four, he described their last moments in fearful
colors, depicting them horribly mutilated by
cannon ball -or sabre stroke. Atlength, when
he had gone the round, Bonaparte said:
"Now, Osmanli, inquire about your own des-
tiny, but be sure and interpret all that he says."
"Every syllable," replied Osmanli,\ and im-
mediately commenced: "Why is this young
sapling of the western forests away from his
home? He weareth the French uniform, yet is
not a Christian. Neither is the creed of Maho-
met inhisheart. Stay. He is one of the mystic
O     brethrene--one who has been tried-who has
nyoer been denied-and is ready and willing to
be tried again. Yonderpyramids perish---minds
and hearts are annihilated-but in this young
man's heart doth the great secret reign. I pay
it reverence. I have done."
And the boy fell down, in violent convulsions,
which lasted about five minutes, 4fter which he
fellinto a trance, and then awoke with an ex-
pression-of bewilderment and surprise.
The magician was ,liberally rewarded, even
those who laughed the most at his predictions
treatinghim with marked respect. Wise and
gifte&amp;minds, in every age, have been impressed
byreN1ations of hidden truth. And there have
ben those, who could, by some mysterious in-
sptiopa, produce effects so startling and mar-
 velpua that the strongest minds yielded to their
inggae.-satisfied that such things are, yet un-
abite saywherefore.
Refreshments wergnow handed round, and
gfterwards the whole party walked out into the
go4dsGeneral Bonaparte -entertaining them
wit Anecdtes of fortune-tellers and soothsayers.
SGeneral,"said one of the officers, :"1do not
4Aepr  mg .impert4iget, but I have heard that,
Madame Bonaparte is a firm believer in divina-
\tQU, Is itss"

MELUKE.
"It is, Berthier," was the reply, "and if you
will all sit down in this summer-house, I will tell
you, as she has often told me, how and when she
became impressed with the belief.
"Madame Bonaparte,-as most of you know,
is a native of Martinique, where she passed her
childhood. One day, when she was just budding
into womanhood, she was persuaded by two
-friends to visit a noted sibyl, who inspired great
dread among the negroes far and near. No
sooner did the old Pythoness see her, than she
uttered a loud exclamation, and seized her hand,
which was carefully examined.
"'Well,' said Josephine, 'do you discover
anything extraordinary in my destiny?' 'Yes,'
was the reply. 'Is happiness or misfortune to
be my lot?' 'Misfortune-yes, and happiness
too.' 'But your oracles are not clear, my good
dame.' 'I am not permitted te4render, them
more clear,' said the old woman, raising her
eyes towards heaven. 'But to the point,' ex-
claimed Josephine, whose curiosity began to be
excited. 'Tell me all that I am to fear and to
hope.'
"'Listen, then,' and the fortune-teller, exam-
,ining Josephine's hand with scrupulous atten-
tion. ' You will first marry a native of this isl-
and, who will take you to Europe, where he will
perish tragically, leaving you two helpless chil-
dren. Your second husband will be a European,
who will be famous without fortune, and who will
prown you as his queen.' On coAchiding her pre-
diction, the old hag hurried away as fast as her
enfeebled limbs would permit. At first Jose-
phine thought of the affair only to laugh at it,
but when her first husband took her to Europe,
and -then perished on the scaffold, she began to
regard the prediction as byno means improbable."
"And she may yet b_ queen," remarked
Berthier.
"Patience," replied Bonaparte, with a smile.
"Let us wait until the pear is ripe before we talk
of plucking it."
Just then a gun-boat passed up the river, and
was recognized as "the mail.boat from Alexan-
dria, so all returned to the kiosk, eager to receive
news from home. The dispatches were not long
in arriving, and no sooner were the letters dis-
tributed, than each officer retired 'to his own
quarters.
Late-that night, as Osmanli lay tossing upon
his iouch, recalling the sad disappointment
which had chilled hisaffections, and whichfilled
his heart- 'iitht anguish, his door wausunddenly

THE MA
opened. Springing to his feet, he grasped his
sabre, but his defensive attitude was soon changed
to a deep reverence, for Bonaparte stood before
him.
"Osmanli," said the general, "brother Os-
manli, I know your disappointment, for I was
an unintentional listener to what passed a few
nights'since in the garden."
The young man's face turned crimson.
"Nay," continued Bonaparte, "do not feel
ashamed. Woman's heart is a more incom-
prehensible riddle than the inscriptions on the
monuments around us, and perseverance always
brings success. But that jealous rascal, Margry,
is evidently dogging your footsteps, and I think
it would be best for you to go away for awhile.
At any rate, I wish to send a trusty messenger
to France, and have selected you."
"But-but-gener'al," asked Osmanli, " who
will protect Judith ?"

Lb

ii

MELUKE.                                 25
"Is her father not my brother as well as thine5"
replied Bonaparte. " Have no fears upon this
point. A boat will go down the river to-Inor-
row, and Berthier will furnish you with the ne-
cessary funds. I wish you to go to Paris as
speedily as possible, and then to remain near
Madame Bonaparte until I order you otherwise.
One of my correspondents dares to hin't that she
is unfaithful, and I wish you, without acting the
part of a spy, to inform me if you discover any..
thing wrong in her conduct. Now, good-night.
I have my letters to write."
This sudden departure, after all, was not re..
pugnant to the young man's feelings. His heart
was sad, and any change was 'acceptable. Be-
sides, he had become enamored with the ciVil-
ized manners of the French, and their superior
social condition.


THE MAMELUKE.

CHAPTER VII.
THE OLD JEWISH BANKER.
Tun "Albatross," hauled close upon a light  Going on shore, attended by Giacomo, Colonel
and head wind, was creeping past the island of Lowe threaded his way through a labyrinth of
Malta, when out came a French frigate, under a narrow, dog-infested streets, until he began 'to
cloud of canvass, and before a stiff breeze. Col- ascend the hill at whose base the city nestled.
onel Lowe was almost frantic with disappoint- Here is the Mahometan burial-ground, studded
ment, and Jack 'Norman, pale with rage, ordered with white marble tombstones,.and shrouded by a
out the sweeps. The men, who dreaded a French deep grove of cypress trees, whose dark, motion-
prison, pulled with a hearty good will, but the less branches are fit emblems of mortality. Near
frigate continued to gain on them, and soon the by, in a mean, dilapidated looking house, resided
shot from her bow guns ricochetted along the the Jewish banker upon whom the English emis-
water, in dangerous proximity to the cutter. sary had letters of credit-:Mordeeai Fezenzae.
At last came the breeze! The sweeps were     It was only after loud and repeated knocking
pulled in, royals and studding-sails were set; the that the door was opened, and-then a strong
engine was manned to wet the canvass, and the chain effectually prevented intrusion, although it.
" Albatross," dancing over the water, fired her enabled Elnathan to survey his visitors, and to
stern chasers in derision.                 ask what they wanted. By way of introduction,'
Fortunate as was the escape, Colonel Lowe Colonel Lowe pulled out his letter of credit, and
had no desire to risk a second trial with any of no sooner did the man see the potent name of
the French cruisers, so the "Albatross " bore Rothschild which it bore, than he unloosed the
away to the northeast, scudding over those seas chain, and opened the door.
whose shores are immortalized by Homer. Eight  The aspect of the 'room into which they en-
days after she had left Ajaccio, her anchor was tered, was even less inviting than was the exte-
dropped in the harbor of Smyrna-the lovely rior of the house, but passing through it, the Jew
crown of ancient Ionia-the bustling Paris of ushered them into a splendidly furnished apart-
the Levant. In days of yore it was famous as ment. A rich carpet, soft as the spring grass,
the bright light among the seven Christian cities covered the floor, the walls were covered with,
which composed the figurative candelabra of hangings of Damascus silk, and around three
Saint John, and in .later days it has become sides of the room were wide, luxurious ottomans,
equally renowned for gay society, lovely women, covered with velvet cushions. A harp, with silver
and fresh figs.

keys, stoodin theeorner,andupon a table covered
with pure white linen, stood a huge silver can-
delabra, with seven branches. A pair of rare
singing-birds were 'suspended from the ceiling in
a gilded cage, and in the deep latticed window
were rare exotic plants, whose fragrance per-
fumed the room.
The occupant of this elegant room presented
a marked contrast to its luxuriance as he ushered
in his guests, bowed down by the weight of ty-
ranny and the everlasting sin of his race. Dressed,
in a dirty cloth robe, his sallow countenance,
sunken eye, and neglected beard, all proclaimed
the oppressed existence which he endured, but
his quivering lip showed that there was in addi-
tion some present grief. Inviting his visitors to
be seated upon the ottoman, he carefully perused
the letter, examined the water-mark of the paper,
and then said, in choice French:
"Your excellency is welcome to Smyrna,
and any funds you may need will be forthcom-
ing, although, bowed down'by sorrow,I fear that
I cannot minister to your comfort. Grief ind,
bitterness are all I have to offer in my humble
abode."
"Has anything occurred, that yott are so de-
pressed P' inquired Colonel Lowe.
"eHappened!1" said Mordecai. "My daugh-
ter, my darling Judith, the light of these old
eyes, is in the hands of the Philistines. In an'
evil hour I permitted the rabbi of our synagogue
to take her to Genoa, that her voice might be
attuned for the Psalms of David in our taberna-
cle. Months passed, but no tidings came-the
felucca never reached Genoa. At laSt Ireceived
positive intelligence that she was captured by an
Alexandrian corsair-sold in the slave market-
carried to Cairo-and was to enter the harem of
Mourad Bey. Alas! Alas I'The Edomites
have triumphed, and my old age is as desolate
as the hills about jerusalem."
"But have not the French-reached Cairo ?"
"I know not. Some of the Egyptian Mame-
lukes who were here hastened to Egypt when
they learned that their country was invade4-
but we have no tidings from the land of bondage.
Ay, ay-a land of bondage it is, and I fear that
there is no deliverance for my poor daughter."
"The French will respect her though, if they
have, not been repulsed," remarked Colonel
Lowe, who felt somewhat interested, so poignant
was the old man's grief.
"IThere is my only hope," replied Mordecai.
"4Although the Moslems will kill the inmates of

their harems, rather than let them fall into the
hands of Christians. Did I things that she was
protected by the French, if money could buy a
vessel, I would soon be on my way to Egypt.
But we are a crushed, oppressed people, and I
fear that my daughter, for whom I have toiled,
and garnered, and endured contumely, will never
sit again in joyousness under her father's fig-tree,
with none to make her ashamed, or afraid."
Here waq   nother golden opportunity, and
Colonel Lowe started with joy. Under the pre-
text of seeking the fair daughter, Giacomo would
be *introduced into Egypt, and could approach
the supposed object of his vendetta.
"Monsieur Fezenzac," said he, " I am cruis-
ing about in the Levant, in a fast sailing cutter,
and can carry you to Egypt if you desire it.
That is, if the French consul here will grant us
letters-of-truce, to save us from capture."
"Thanks, a thousand thanks," exclaimed the
the Jew. "May the God of Israel bless you.
The French consul is my debtor, and I can easily
obtain the desired papers."
" And how soon can you leave ?"
"How soon    01, I can leave ere the sun sets,
for even as the hart pants after the water brooks,
so do I long to see my beloved Judith."
" I will return on board again, then," said
Colonel Lowe, "and we can sail the moment
you come on board. Good-by, then, fbr a few
hours."
And as the gratified Englishman strode away,
the Jew heaped blessings upon his head. Poor
Giacomo. As the hour approached when he was
to be called upon to execute the deadly scheme,
his heart failed him, lest he might not be able to
avert his old friend, and be seized as an assassin.
The cutter was immediately prepared for sea,
greatly to the disappointment of the sailors, who
had counted upon a revel on shore. But that
same afternoon Mordecai came on board with
the French consul. The necessary papers were
made out, the French flag was hoisted, and then
the consul,,having received a large parting loan
from the enraptured Jew, returned on shore.
"All hands up anchor, ahoy I'" now echoed
through the cutter. .The capstan-bars were rig-
ged, and the men heaved away, until the anchor
was "short."  Sail was then made, the anchor
was tripped and stowed, and the cutter was fairly
aweigh before sunset. Glorious was that setting
sun, as it gilded the mountains which form the
western boundary of the lovely bay through
which the cutter glided;

it

27 '


28                  THE MANELUEE.

"Not as ip northern climes obscurely bright,
But one uncdouded blaze ofiving light.
O'er thehdshed deep the yellow beam he throws,
Gilds the green wave that trembles as It glows."
The next day, as the cutter left the island of
P atmos on her lee, the breeze died entirely away.
The sky was intensely blue, with an occasional
fleecy cloud drifting lazily through the azure ex-
panse, nor did a ripple disturb the broad expanse
of water. . The cutter lay becalmed, her sails,
flapping against the masts, and had it not been
for the idle rocking occasioned by the ground
swell, she would have appeared motionless.,
This was torture to the afflicted Jew, who had
battled against his sea-sickness while they made
rapid progress, but now was the image of misery.
Neither was the grim Briton in the best of hu-
mor, especially as Giacomo showe&amp; an unwil-
lingness to lay his plans for action in Egypt.
"9Will this weather always last 1" he inquired
of Jack Norman,.with a fearful oath.
"I fear not," was the- reply, "for a storm is
brewing, if I am not mistaken." And soon the
experienced mariner ordered his light sails to be
taken in, and housedhis fying-jib boom. The
hatches were closely battened down, and every
preparation-made for what Jack called "a Le-
vanter."
Night came - on, and as the blood-red sui
sank down into the molten waters, a breeze
swelled out the courses of what sails remained
set. Masses of dark clouds drifted hurriedly
along, and the atmosphere felt gloomy andheavy.
The wind increased. Sail after sail was taken
in, but the cutter dashed on, faster and faster.
Soon, rapid and vivid flashes of forked lightning
shone across the angry billows, and peals of
crashing thunder added to the terrific grandeur
of the scene. The gale increased to a hurricane,
sails were close-reefed, the storm-staysail set,
and the "Albatross " struggled before the fury
of the tempest, now poising on the top of a
mighty wave-now, with a shudder, sinking into
the deep hollow of the sea.
Poor GiacomoI He felt that it was a judg-
meut, and at -last became so alarmed, that he
communicated his fears to the sailors, with whom
he had become intimate. - They, naturally super_
stitious, agreed that the Englishman was a sec-
ond;Jonah, and it was determined to get rid of

him as soon as possible. At last, land was seen,
looming up in the foggy storm, and surrounded
by breakers. But ere the cutter could be kept
away, the solitary staysail which kept her before
the wind was blown from the bolt-ropes, and as
she lay rolling in the heavy chopping sea, stout
heart lost courage.
A cry was heardI In the confusion, Colohel
Lowe and the Jew went overboard, whether ac-
cidentally or not, no one knew. But it was im-
possible to, lower a boat, and so hen-coops,
benches, and .other light materials were thrown
overboard. The colonel was an excellent swim.
mer, and managed to, reach a large hen-coop,
upon which he floated- securely, and dragged
Fezenzac, more dead than alive. The current
carried them rapidly towards the shore, but the
cutter on which a new staysail had been set, an-
swered her helm, and she managed to weather
the promontory, with its menacing breakers.
Oikce free of the land, Norman had the masts
cut away, so that he was enabled to ride out the
gale, and then rigging a jury-mast, on the fourth
day of the passage, he reached the island of
Rhodes.
.The English squadron, just before the gale,
had put in at the harbor of Rhodes for fresh wa-
ter. So when Jack Norman made the light-
house, and run boldly in. between the points on
which the feet of the famed colossus once rested,
he found himself among his countrymen-
Colonel Lowe and Mordecai-were also saved.
After clinging to the hen-coop f'or hours, as it
was tossed over the billows, they were drifted
on shore. Some Turkish fishermen found them
on the beach, almost exhausted; but Mordecai
had a potent claim for assistance. Their clothes
were dried, their hunger was relieved, and that
night they were taken to the once proud city of
Ephesus. Goats now browse, where Pliny tells
us the largest population in Asia Minor once.
dwelti nor are there many tokens of the once
proud temple of Diana, but it is easy to trace
the walls of that.famous lodge-room where the
gogd saint John once held the gavel. Business,
and pleasure, and worship have all passed away,
yet Mordecai found those to whom he was united
by a "mystic tie." They relieved him and his
companion, nor was it many days ere the ship-
wrecked couple arived- safely back at Smyrna.

rl

had just swept relentlessly across the face of so-
ciety, engulfing monarchy,' and polluting the
sacred name of liberty by sanguinary butcheries,
yet the saloons of Paris lost not their brilliancy.
Female influence, graceful in its sway, there re-
strained the political gladiators, and, even the
supreme heartlessness that was so apparent had
its pleasing effect, increasing the brilliancy of the
wit, as a frosty atmosphere enhances the bright-
ness of the stars.
Remaining in the ante-room, Osmanli took
from his finger a ring, and sent it to Madame
Bonaparte by a servant, with a request that she
would receive his dispatches. It was Napoleon's
well-known signet, and in a. few moments the
messenger returned, to usher Osianli into a
gorgeously furnished boudoir. Here Josephine
awaited him, and the young soldier was dazzled
by her personal appearance. She was then in
the prime of womanhood, and strangely beauti.
ful. Her luxuriant ebon hair clustered in heavy
curls over her strongly marked forehead, and
shaded a countenance of tropical cast, yet daz-
zling purity. Deep hazel eyes flashed a welcome
through their long, black lashes. Her teeth
nestkd like pearls between the rosy lips to which
they imparted'so much expression, and a metepr-
like diispple played on one of her soft, round
cheeks. Welcoming Osmanli with inspiring

CHAPTER VIII.
'rn MAMLUKE z rnAwch.

4

OeMANLI, embarking at Alexandria, was for-
tunate enough to escape the British cruisers, and
arrived safely at Toulon, where he took the mail-
coach for Paris. In vain were hospitalities ten-
dered to him on his journey; nor did he antici-
pate any of ,that enjoyment which is the grand
magnetic attraction of the French metropolis.
The voice of Judith Fezenzae alone rang in his
ears, her visage was ever before his eyes, and
thoughts of her alone occupied his sad soul, ex-
hausting its freshness. And as he entered the
metropolis-that focus of all that is dazzling in
splendor, all that is elegant in manners, all that
is brilliant in genius, all that is mighty in power
-his thoughts were all upon the banks of the
distant Nile; Everything appeared cheerful and
bustling as he passed through the lighted streets,
bat his heart was as dry as Gideon's fleece, while
the dew-like influence of Parisian life fell gently.
all around.
Without stopping to change his attire, Osmanli
repaired directly to the house of General Bona-
parte, a modest residence, which had recently
been purchased of his friend Talma, the trage-
dian. Coaches were standing before qhe entrance,
to the courtyard, and Osmanli was informed at
.the gate that madame had guests within-one of
those delectable re-unions for which Paris is so
renowned. Revolution, with its bloody tide,


AVELUK.

'31

THE MAMLUKE.

30                               TI
ease, she asked, in a voice tremulous with
anxiety:
"Victorious again ?"
"Yes, lady," replied Osmanli, completely
fascinated. "The general is master of Egypt,
and his enemies are subdued by his prowess,
even as-as-his lady conquers all hearts bf her
beauty."
"Bravo I" said Josephine, evidently as much
delighted by the compliment as she was by the
news. "Such language is truly oriental, and
rarely heard in these days of liberty and equality.
When I become Empress of France (for such is
my predicted destiny), you shall be my chamber-
lain. And now, captain; join the company.
Don't look at your dusty uniform, but remember
your tidings." And taking Osmanli byAthe
hand, she opened a door which led them directly
into the gay and brilliant saloon.
It had already been whispered among the gay
throng that an officer had arrived froi Egypt,
and when Josephine re-appeared, leading Os-
manli by the hand, there was a murmur of curi-
ous excitement. The dancers ceased theirgrace-
ful measure, the loto table was deserted, and the-
whole party clustered arohnj the hostess and
heir new guest.- Tb Osmanli, who had been
reared'in-the East, the saene was one of enchant-
ment.   The guests w40!i not numerous, but
among ,them were some of the most beautiful
women and the most intelligent Parisians-all
as deferential to Josephine as a hive of bees are
to their queen. And worthy was the -beautiful
Creole of royal honor, as shemoved through the
throng. Not with that measured tread which
the mythologists attributed to Juno, but rather
with that wayward, graceful motion with which,
poets -represent the fairy-queen, as she receives
the homage of her blithesome court.
" My friends," said Josephine, "let me pre-
sent to you*Captain Osmanli, one of,General
Bofiaparte's oriental recruits, and a-member of
his general staff. He *omes from the armyladen
with tidings of victory, and will inpart his intel-
ligence whilst I retire to read my husband's let-,
ter. Listen to him and excuse me."
Exclamations of joy, and plaudits from many
a tiny gloved hand responded to this announce&amp;
meant, and Osmanli was at once the lion of the'
evening. His recital of the battle (the first in-
telligence)Was listened to with eagerness, qes-
tions weet asked about friends or relatives in the
army, regrets were uttered for those who had
fallen, and then the merry dance was renewed
with fresh gayety.

To Osmanli, the scene was as bewitching as it
was novel. When with Judith Fezenzac he had
felt ennobled, as if holding intercour e with some
seraphic visitor; but now he'found hi self encir-
cled by the fair and the beautiful, the fascinating
and the gay. Accustomed only. to veiled faces
and to closely enveloped forms, he now witnessed,
the twinkling of tiny feet in the circling dance,
and encountered the formidable artillery of
sparkling glances and beaming smiles, while
angelic brows, like bended bows, menaced his
peace. For the first time, he felt inclined to re-
nounce his creed, and to pardon the bright pro-
genitor of these bewitching creatures, who tempt-
ed her lord to eat of the forbidden fruit; at any
4 rate, he excused the ancient father of the human
race. Had he been himself subjected to such
overwhelming tests in sunny Eden, he felt that
he should have yielded like - susceptible father
Adam, and have felt little compunction as he
*ras sent forth to be lighted round the earth by a
pair of eyes whose flashes mocked the stars In
brilliancy. Why, he thought, was Prometheus
so-foolish as to steal fire from above, when earth
is illuminated by such heavenly rays, or why did
Zoroaster worship fire, when there were such
overpowering beais in the light of lovely wo-
man's eye1? . All the degrading ideas of his creed
respecting woman melted away like an autumnal
frost before a clear morning sun, and he stood,
entranced as it were, watching the glittering
throng.I
The poetry of motion ceased, and- a lady
whose exquisite dancing Osmanli had particu-.
larly noticed, was handed to a seat near him.
She wore deep mourning, which heightened the
charms of her clear, ruddy complexion; large
expressive eyes cast enticing glances, and full,
pouting lips gave piquance to the tones of her
musical voice.
"Pardon me," she said, " but did you come,
alone from Egypt ?"I
"Alone, madame," replied Osmanli, "that is
to say, in the cabin. There weresome wounded
soldiers on board, however."
The lady then asked many questions about
.Bonaparte, his probable return, e~c.,-completely
fascinating Osmanli ere Madame Bonaparte re-
appeated. When she did come, her face was
flushed, an4 joy beamed from every lineament
of her countenance. Again ever' one gathered
around her.
"Well, my friends," she asked, "have you
heard all the news? All about the victorious

career of my martial spouse in the land of Pha-
raoh?  Nay, I will warrant a dozen of gloves
that Captain Osmanli has not informed you that
he saved my husband's life! His blushes show
that I am correct. But-what a giddy creature
I am! Here this young man has travelled post-
haste from Marseilles, and I am detaining him,
famished and weary, for your amusement, as
though he was a wild beast. Let me see-it
will never do to' have so handsome a cavalier
under the roof of my jealous husband-" and
Josephine looked around her guests, as if seek-
ing a host for Osmanli.
"Will the gallant captain accept the shelter of
my roof ?"asked the lady with whom Osmanli
had entered into conversation.
"Need I say, Josephine, that my ' prophetic
chamber,' as you used to call it, is at the service-
of your husband's deliverer." And this second
offer of hospitality came from a matronly look-
ing dame, who wore her own gray hair in flow-.
ing curls, and whose features, although furrowed
by- trials, were radiant with benevolent good-
ness.
"Miust I decide," saidJosephine. "My young
friend here would enjoy the luxuries of your
magnificent hotel, Madame de Valmont, but I
fear-that he ratlier needs seclusion and rest. So,
Captain Osmanli, I entrust you to the guaian-
ship of my good American friend, Madame Wil-
mot. The fair widow (whose acquaintance I
see youhave already made) will doubtless be
happy to receive you as a visitor, hereafter." -
Madame de Valmont blushed, bit the end of
her fan, and then casting a look of burning ten-
derness at Osmanli, which made his pulse tingle,
she p'outingly remarked:
"The captain can elect."
"cNay, nay," interposed Josephine. "Let him
enjoy the quiet of Madame Wilmot's retired,
apartment, for a few days, at least."
Osmanli now entered into conversation with
his hostess, and was not long in ascertaining that
she was a lady of extensive information, coupled
with strong, practical sense. When the guests
began to depart, Osmanli offered his arm, 'and
was escorting her to her carriage, when Madame
de Valmont passed.
"When you are rested and released," she ex-,
claimed, in a merry tone of voice, "I shall be

happy to see you at my residence. Come with-
out ceremony. And now, good-night."
The syren-like tones of the fascinating widow's
dulcet voice rang in Osmanli's ears long after he
had arrived at Madame Wilmot's comfortable
home. She attributed his bstracted manner to
the fatigues of his journey, and lost no time in
installing him in a neat bed-chamber. There
was nothing remarkable about the room, but no
sooner was the young man left alone than his
attention was arrested by a full-length portrait
over the mantel-shelf. It represented a tall, vig-
orous looking man, with prominent cheek-bones,
and long, black hair. The eyes were small, yet
piercing, and the open countenance, which was
gf a peculiar copper hue, bespoke an energetic
mind, fitted for a high destiny. The costume
a species of uniform, to which was added a
ecklace of eagle's claws, and in the belt was a
polisfied steel hatchet, of a peculiar form. That
iirsaportrait of some one belonging to a na-
ti  o(which he was ignorant, Osmanli felt con-
vinced, yet he could not account for the strange,
fascinating influence which it exercised over him.
The eyes appeared to follow him around the
roomaund eveiaf$&amp;thl light was extinguished,
he fancied that hecotddee that stern counten-
ance, endeavoring to read is thoughts.
Norwould this haye been an easy task. Up
to that very evening, Judith Fezenzac had been
the undisputed sovereign of every ide, Each,
pure thought that flowed into his heart, ebbed
forth impressed with some recollection of her.
But now, the soft yet queenly languor of Jose-
phinud had brightened the dark shadows left by
the parting interview in the garden at Cairo.
And Madame de Valmont, entering at the breach
thus made in his constancy, had fascinated the
unsophisticated young Moslem by her Circe-like
wiles,
Little thought the ensnared dreamer, as.he
tossed about on his restless couch, that the bea-
tiful enchantress who had to speedily woven a
charm around his existence, was, at that moment,
concocting plots of the most sanguinary nature.,
Fortunate is it, that an everwise Providence often
keeps us in happy ignorance of events which
control our destiny. Impious is the hand :that
would raise the veil, and seek to enter the mys-
,terious portals of omnipotence.


the strong arm of justice to the prison-some to
the scaffold.
Yet Madame de Valmont, with unconstrained
step and eagle eye, hesitated not to penetrate this
labyrinth of iniquity, and was soon in the midst
of the vilest haunts, where the abandoned of both
sexes hide their wretchedness and their guilt.
She stopped before a house, over the door of
which wa   a lantern, bearing the inscription;
" cheap lodgings." A rapid glance assured her-
that she was not followed, and drawing her
cloak closely around her, she entered. The soli-
tary lamp, almost extinguished by its own en-
crustations, disclosed a small bar-room, but its,
only occupant was a gaunt waiter, who was sit-
;ting in a chair, fast asleep. He was not awak-
ened by the gentle tread or the rustling silk of
Madame de Valmont, and she was evidently in
no want of his attendance. Evidently familiar
with the locality, she passed -through the tar-
room, into an inner, unventilated apartment.
There lay a score of miserable wretches, nestling
in piles of foul straw like so many wild beasts--
the-atmosphere was warm and sickefing, and
the -walls were damp with the dew of death.
All was stamped with vice, save a young child,
that peacefully -eposed by the side of a bloated
woman, whose many finger rings and gold chain
denoted the mistress of the establishment. Sweet

a

THE MA
flower, blooming into life, to be choked and with-
ered by the flt around! Could it not find de-
liverance from the poets who musically sung of
human feeling-of the priests who preached the
religion of mercy-of the philanthropists who
collected money for the sorrows of the poor-of
the sentimental whose hearts were touched with
tales of woe ? No. A life of sin, and of shame,
and of misery, is marked out for it, and the
proud lady passes it with a scowl wrinkling her
Parian brow.. Alas, alas! It is her own'child!
Passing the fruit of her unlicensed indulgence
without even a kind look, or a repentant sigh,
the hard-hearted mother entered a third room,
fitted up as a kitchen. Here she knocked four
times against the wall-the signal was soon re-
sppnded to, and then the entire back of the large
fireplace revolved, disclosed a vaulted passage.
A man of herculean proportions, -armed to the
teeth, suddenly stepped out into the room, and
said:.
"Long live the Bourbons !"
"Death to liberty I" was Madame de Val-
mont's reply, and she then inquired, "is the
count within ?"
The sentinel answered in the affirmative, and
Madame de Valmont -immediately entered the
secret passage. After carefully closing the door;
the sentinel lighted her down a long-flight of
steps, at the foot of which was a strong iron door.
There was another interchange of signals, afte
which this barrier was opened, and disclosed a
large hall. The roof showed that it was exca
vated from the solid rock, but the sides wer
lined with human bones; carefully arranged pileE
of muskets .and sabres occupied one end of thi
sepulchral apartment, and at the other end wa
an altar, arrayed with the symbols of the Romisi
faith, the largeowax candles dimly illuminatin
the whole scene. In one of the corners near th
altar was a'table, thickly strewn with papers, a
which a young man sat writing. He was in th
prime of life, with expressive gray eyes, silke
black hair and beard, and a determined, resolute
countenance. Rising as Madame de Valmon
'approached, he handed her a chair, with a grace
.ful manner indicative of good breeding.
"Welcome to our stronghold, fair conspirato
we have good news."      .
"And a horrid place to tell it in. I don
mind the cut-throats up stairs, but these cats
combs have such a dismal look."
"WOuld that the bones of Louis-the.Sixteen$
and Marie Antoinette -ha&amp;~ been as respteetfull

CII4PTER IX
STIOINcHOLD OF CONSPIRATORS.

MADAME DE VALMONT, on'leaving the Bonn.
part house, ordered her coachman to drive to the
cathedral of Notre Dame. As divine worship
had not been re-established since its overthrow
by the revolutionists, the domestic thought this
a strange command. But his mistress, as he
well knew, would not be questioned as to any
caprice of her untrammelled will, so he drove to
the cathedral. By a curious contradiction, the
vilest purlieus of Paris are shadowed by this gor-
geous gothic fane, and even at the present day,
as it was then, thousands of God's- children riot
in vice ani degradation within the sound of-its
pealing organ. Crowded into high tenements,
these degraded wretches are packed, story above
story, like so many oysters. Infants are reared
in these hot-beds of crime, or die in the dark
scenes of their birth, like plants which are
sprouted in a tomb, and draw their brief exist-
enee from- corrupting bones. There, in an at-
mosphere so deprived by use of vitality that the
lamps flicker with ghastly pallor, plans are laid
for unlawful and desperate deeds, Fnd 'there,
when successful, the villains share their ill gotten
gains. There, hunger is often without food-
hearths are often without fire-sickness is often
without a bed-and while some perish by the
knife of the assassin, or others put a sacrilegious
end to their guilty lives, many are dragged by

MWELUEE.                                 88
treated as were these around us when removed
here."
"Thanks, count.   Ishould not complain.
Now for your news I"
"I knew that the loyalty of a de Valmont.
would even overlook the horrors of the cata-
combs. 'The news is this. That zealous Epg-
lishman, Colonel Lowe, is at the island of Rhodes,
with several allies. By the next arrival, we
may hope to hear that Bonaparte is.aisassinated
-and then-huzza for France and our legitimate
king I As it was, the Corsican would have been
killed at the battle of the Pyramids, had he not
made some'mystic sign to a young Mameluke
who was about to cut him down. Pest-but
they became sworn friends, and the young Mos-
lem came in the packet which brought my letters,
to watch over Madame Josephine."
" Ay, count," said the lady, " all this I know,
and I hope to make this same Manmeluke, Cap-
tain msmanli, one of our agents in the holir cause
of r estoration."
" You know him already, then ?"
" Certaitily. Did I not tell you, when Isigned
your pledge with blood from my veins, that I
t would work with zeal T"
" True. And you have done the cause good
service. Between ourselves,, though, fair lady,
f I think you are animated more by a desire to re-
venge yourself on Bonaparte than-"
r "Not upon him, countI No, no ! Not upon
him, for I once loved him. But my revenge is
- directed against that wily Creole, Josephine."
e   " And you desire to see the Bourbons again in
s power, at the same time ?"
s   "Bourbons-anybody-but I would cheqk the
s star of Josephine in its ascendant."
h "And this young Mahometan ?"
g "Is just the object for a true woman to love.
e Masculine and regular in limb and feature, with
t a bold, flashing eye, a clear lip, and an entire
e absence of prettiness, he is one of nature's noble-
n men. Josephine Bonaparte, who must know
e that her jealous Corsican has sent him to iyatch
it over her doings, will evidently try to ensnare
- him, but I will woo the young eaglet from her
wiles, or sacrifice him."  Then, looking at her
r, watch,' she continued: "But it is getting late,
and my cotchinan may get into difficulty if day-
't break reveals. his rich livery."
a-   "Perhaps, madame, yet this is not, the first
time you have been in the haunts above ground."
h -   Ah, my dear count, you forget! Was it not
y a compact, that you hould never inquire how it


I I

happeide that Iwas recognized by the landlady
above stairs. You men talk about female curi
osity yt-"
"]Rardon, madame. I was :indiscreet, and
&amp;ilf not again be inquisitive. Can you attend
td some messages to-morrow?",
"Iertiinly. And now, good-day."
Te count escorted his visitor to the door,
wherthey parted with ceremorfious salutations
moreworthy of a palace than a charnel-house.
Hastily ascending the steps, Madaine de Val-
mont was let out into the kitchen; and then,
rapidly passing through the lodging-house, she
walked to her carriage. The driver was fast
asleep on his box, and before he could descend,
istress had opened the door of the vehicle,
andrWas getting in.
"Iever ind, Pierre," she said, "Ican close
te   or Qnthe inside. Drive home as fast as
It was very dari, for daybreak ias atiand,
and as the horses started forward; it was impos-
sible to see a foot bMfore one's face. Throwing
herself back into a coiner of the 'carriage, the
bold cdspirator rejoiced in the goodbeprlking of
her vengeance. And what darling passion ven-
geasee is i  Love, ambition, 14s, pride, avarice
-all pale before the brightness 6f its fires. To
foster it, even gentle women  ill do violence to
their natures-be hypocrites--fan* upon those
whose heart's blood they could~Arink-cringe to
thoseupon whom they could trample-nay, pro.
fess friendship for those, to insure whose ever.
lasting torments they would themselves forfeit
eternal salvation: Such is vengeance. Such was
the secret fountain which fed the reservoir within
Madame de Valmont's heart, and moved the
machinery of her every action. The hoped-for
result was the disgrace of Josephine Bonaparte,
and as the proud beauty reposed in the corner of
her carriage, her imagination painted her Creole
rival crushed and despised.
But the dream was suddenly interrupted. The
triumph-imaginary as it was-was of brief di-
ration. A word rang in the ear of,the guilty
sc'emer, and in an instant her imaginary triumph
faded into ashes--her exultant joy sank into
hopeless terror. And that word was
"'2ella 1"
It was her own name ! It was spoken in the
orriagte where she bad fancied herself alone!
It was pronounced in a well-known tone!
She flhieked frantically to her cadhman, lbut
he'heard'het not, fbr sleep had-possessio -of his

the terrified woman saw a well known figure on
the front seat.
"Monster 1" she exclaimed, "is that you1"'
"Yes, my pretty Zelia, it is I. I am just
from Egypt--in' disguise-a disgraced, ruined
man, thirsting for revenge. Business carried
me first to the Count de Vergennes, and I little
thought that the fine lady who entered as-I left,
was you. But the sentinel so informed me, and
finding your carriage here, I quietly took a seat
in, it."              /
"0, why can you not leave me in peace ?"
"Leave you 1 By no means. Listen. When,

faculties, and he was urging his steeds home-
ward.- The clatter of their hoofs and the rattling
of the swifk-revolving wheels drowned her voice.
Thenpshe heard those well remembered tones
again.
"Zelia. Be-quiet !"
We have said that Madame de Valmont was
a'widbw-a wealthy widow, who revelled in the
dissipations of the French metropolis; but we
must now lift the veil from her past life. Anl
orphan, educated in a convent, she had attracted
the notice of Monsieur de Valmont, a rich banker,
who acted as financial agent to the iunse. Of
course, when 'he asked her hand, it was given
him, and thelpoor girl found herself, at a tender
age, the miistress of a noble mansion. For a
while, ter husband idolized her, but graduany
he returned to his old associates, and his wife
found hdself deserted for the society of opera-
dancer and adventurers. Then, when her heart
was wounded and lonely, she met Bonaparte, a
simple officer of artillery, but gifted with the
qOalities which her imagination had painted.
Young, talented, affectionate, he soon won her
heart without knowing it, and when he did'sus-
pect it, -he at once avoided her society. Again
the "poor woman was alone-uneared for-un-
loved. Then came another officer, beneath
whose fascination she fell. For a while, her hus-
band, intent upon his own pleasures, did not
suspect his wife's ipfidelity.' But, lured on by
her gay deceiver, she soon -forgot herself, and
when Monsieur de Valmont's eyes were opened,
it was too late.
Then, and not until then, did she ascertain her
husband's affection, and her deceiver's unworthi-
ness. The latter, having received a post\ in the
staff of Bonaparte (now general), coolly threw
off the weeping woman who ha'a sacrificed all
for him, and laughed when she recalled his vows.
But the husband-the wronged, confiding -hus.
band, when he heard of her desertion, sought
her out, restored her to her conjugal rights, and
showed a disposition to forget the past. Just
then, death called him home. His widowia.
herited his fortune, and with her recollections -of
his forgiving kindness was blended a hatred of
the man who had made her unworthy of it.
There was a jealousy, too, of Josephine, who
-h4eaptivated-her heart's first love.
"8peak, 2elia, you must know me."
Was it a dream 'i No I Just then, the ear;.
ringe passed'the gard-house at the Louvre, "nd
as the light Bashed in at the carriage-windowi

years ago, you first- received my attention, it
was merely to excite Bonaparte. You hoped to
make the Corsican jealous, and sought to use
me as your tool. But I turned the tables on
you. And now, I am a refugee. I seek an asy-
lum, and assistance. Who is more bound to
give it me than Zelia de Valmont, the companion
of former days-the mother of my child !"
BveWy word fell like molten lead upon the
brain of the poor woman, who-so suddenly
found herself dependent before the will of a man
whom she despised.

AN INTnRESTING HIOTOR .
ney; added to professed infidel. He saw with regret the grad-
Osmanli into ual change in his patient's opinions, and found
reeks Madame that ridicule only hastened what he wished to
motherly care. prevent. So he reported Captain Osmanli as
y one of those convalescent, but in need of salt-water baths, and
woof of life, Captain Osmanli was at once ordered by the
t, and hovered city-major to repair to bieppe, bathe during a
gelic devotion. month, and then report fQr duty. This was an-

It was not strange, then, that she won the young noying to the young conveit, and he was almost
man' heart, and as he became convalescent, he tempted to resign his commission. But what

was made happy by her unobtrusive cheerful-
ness of manner, and by the habitual content of
her pure and generous spirit. Her personal ap-
pearance was very attractive. The features were
east in a noble and expressive mould---the fore.
head evincing a fine capacity for' deep thought,
the eyes fervent and mellow, and a general
sweetness diffusing itself over the whole coun-
tenance, indicative of the highest moral and in-
tellbetual cultivation, qualified by a nature of the
tenderest-benevolence.
Osmanli soon loved her devotedly, not. with
that deep, pure and holy feeling which can link
youth with age. Her excellence stole upon his
heart, like the light of -a balmy summer's mnorn
ing after a stormy night, and she repaid his
confiding friendship by elevating his thoughts to
the!seblimeconsolations of the Christianreligion.
'Ais did not at all please the surgeon -in at-
tendance, who, like most French officets, was a6

could he do? Soj with a. sad heart, he said,
" Au revoir-" to his kind hostess, paid a farewell
call to Madame Bonaparte (who was not at
home), and left.
Four long, long weeks passed away, during
which Osmatli entirely regained his health.
And so anxious was he to see Madame Wilmot,
that he persuaded the commandant of the garri-
son at Dieppe to send him to Paris with de-
spatches, two days before the expiration of his
forced furlough. 'Arriving in the metropolis,
where he had anticipated a cordial welcome, he
was told that Madame Wilmot had gone.
* Where V
"To America, captain," replied the porter.
"Aerich "
" Yes,captaia. A message, probably, of great
importance, Made h r -suddenly decide to leave,
yesterday-afternoon. But the expected to have
seen you at Dieppe, Inow, air, for she sent me

14
I

CHAPTER X.

T--IM MA3MUKE.

84               ~~~THlE, 'AM~LUKEOHIMAJIUK.8

84

85

Twa fatigue of the rapid jour
the excited state of his mind, threv
high fever, and for five. long w
Wfimot watched over bim with
Bound to the young Mameluke b
mysterious threads woven into the
she ministered to his every wani
around his delirious couch with anj

I

F


86           TE Mf~L~~E.TIQ~)~AELIK.                                                               8

to the  city-major'A to ascertain your address legation. Nor had he a spare half hour, that
there. And I told her, as they told me, that you was not passed with Melanie, before whose an-
would not leave there until to-mrorrow."   gelic nature his stout heart melted into blissful
This was a sudden damper upon Osmanli's peace. Months' passed,' and then the French
hopes, and he wished that he had not been in ambassador removed to a beautiful countiy-seat,
such a hurry to leave. He then repaired .to Where he invited Captain Wilmot to visit him.
Madame Bonaparte, where he met with a flatter- The invitation was eagerly accepted, and now
ing reception.                              the l6yer had frequent opportunities of meeting.
"So, you have lost your hostess," said Jose- At last, without :counsel or advice, they were.
phine.                                     married-fatal error-not with the religious
"Unluckily," replied Osmanli.  "Can you forms of civilized life, but in accordance with
tell me why she left so suddenly ?"         the'customs of the Cherokees. Standing by the
"Yes, and no! To tell you what I can, will margin of a running stream, they clasped hands,
be to recount her eventful history, and the love and called upon thq Great Spirit to blend their
she has ever cherished for her savage bride- lives, and to let them float down the waters of
groom-"                                    time. Then Melanie, baring her feet, stepped
"Savage bridegroom!" interrupted Osmanli. into the water, filled a cup, and handed it to her
"Was the portrait in the room where I slept that future lord. He drank-then, clasping her to
of Monsieur Wilmot ?"his bosom, greeted her as his wife."
"Wore he the eagle's claws as a necklace ?"  "And was he not faithful ?" asked Osmanli,
"Ay-and his look was noble and stern."   who iad listened in eager suspense.
"It was a portrait of Captain Wilmot-or, to  "His life was devoted to her, and although it
give him his true name and title, Miantomah, was judged best to keep the matter a profound
chief of the Cherokees."                   secret, until Miantomah could return to his peo-
" Thd Cherokees ?"                       ple, yet Melanie enjoyed much of his society.
" So are called a tribe of American savages, At last, he came one day with a troubled coun-
who reside on the southern borders of the new  tenance. A messenger had arrived from his
republic across the ocean. Before their revolu- people, and had brought him a mysterious snake-
tion, Miantomah was sent by the governor of the skin, wrought with the quills of the poroppine in
province of Georgia to England. -There he was peculiar devices. It was a summons not to be
carefully educated, under the patronage of King resisted! His tribe was about to declare war
George, and his strong intellect gave rare prom- against the Choctaws, and he was imperatively
ise of distinction. But just as he entered the called home to head the warriors. The British
University of Oxford, he accidentally met with colonial government, with its customary cunning,
your recent hostess, whose father was in Lon- had fomented the war among its savage neigh-
don, as secretary to the French ambassador. bors, and Miantomah felt bound to returAn.: In
Ambition, learning, fame--everything was for. a few days, with many a vow, and many a prom-
gotten by the young chieftain, and his untamed ise to return, the young chieftain left. Weeks
heart throbbed with wild affection for the grace- passed-months passed-and his bride was.point-
ful young French girl. His guardians, ignorant ed at as one depraved-and fallen. In vain did
of his love, thought that he pined for his forest she protest that she was married-she was mock-
wilds, ot that his brain had been overtaxed, so Ied and scorned. And when, after the agony.
they introducedhim into the depraved gayeties of was over, she asked for her babe, she was told
the English court. The king created him a cap- that it was dead. Poor Melanie !. Her father,
tain of his gentlemen-at-arms, giving him the who really loved his child, began to repent of his
name of his lord-treasurer, and no party was ertelty, and endeavored to win her back into her
considered successful unless honored by the pres. former joyousness. Vain attemptI Her thoughts
ence of Captain Wilmot. A necklace of eagle's were across the ocean, although she knew not
claws was thesle relief of his former garb, and whether her husband lived-her love was with
his fine stately figure, arrayed in uniform, shone her child, although she knew not where that child
finely among the pride of England's chival-y.  was buried."
"But whilst he mingledin the dance, and uis-  " And has she neverheard fromher husband ?"
tend -to music's entrailcing strains, his heart asked Osmanli, who was deeply interesteM by
was in the humbler lowerparlr of the-French the recital.-

"Never a word. Year after year rolled on. made a sign, which Fouche's quick glance at
Her -father brought her back to Paris. The once comprehended. He saw that the young
American Revolution destroyed, all connection Oriental was his brother, and was worthy of his
between that continent and England-our revos- esteem. Returning the sign, he turned towards
lution destroyed everything here, and-vainly has Josephine, qnd remarked:
my friend sought tidings of her lost chief. Her  "I have the fullest confidence, madame, in
father perished on the scaffold, and it was when your protege. Nay, I will vouch for his conduct
imprisoned in, the Bastile that I learned the story if you have any doubt."
of her woes. Each of us then expected that the  "Bravo !" exclaimed Josephine.  "Why,
axe would soon terminate our lives, and it was captain, you must be a magician, for you have
her dying charge that-if I escaped the fury of won at sight the esteem  of Napoleon, and the
the sanguinary tempest, .I should never forget confidence of Fouche. But now mark I Do
her desire to establish her character, and to as- you remember Madame Valmont, whom you
certain the fate of her child." once met here ? A dashing, fine-looking young
"But," interrupted Osmanli, "did you not widow, who wished to entertain you."
say that it was dead !"                      "I do. But I assure you that I have little
"I said, that they told her it was dead. Yet, fancy for such fashionable dames."
with that true affection only found in a mother's  "Listen. That woman once presumed to love
heart, she refuses to credit -it. The woman with General Bonaparte, and tormented him with her
whom she was placed when the babe first saw  fawning 'passion.  His noble heart, spurning
light, was a depraved creature, and my friend such base alliances, turned from her with die.
always hopes that her child lives. Through gust, but she would not be repulsed, nor did she
Bonaparte's intercession she- has obtained her cease- annoying him until I became his bride.
father's confiscated estate, and has taken the Then, she professed entire resignation, congratu-
name of her husband, The portrait of him lated me with apparent sincerity, and I was as
which you saw in her house was painted inEng - last induced to admit her to my acquaintance.
land, by a French artist, and fell into her hands Fool that I was. For I now have positive ash
about a year ago, by a mere chance. Walking surance that this hypocritical friend is plotting
in the street, she recognized it in the window of against my husband's life."
a furniture broker, of whom she purchased it. "Why not arrest her ?" asked Osmanli.
The possession of this picture has but strength-  "Spoken like a true child of the desert," re-
ened her'belief that she will yet find her son."  plied Josephine. Everything is as plain as day,
This romantic tale was here interrupted by but were I to call upon Monsieur Fouche for his
the entrance of a small, ill-faced man, dressed proof, he would shrug up his shoulders and re.
with scrupulous neatness, and looking contiu- fuse it. Many an aristocratic name figures upon
ally about with small, piercing eyes. After ex- his roll of secret spies, but few of them would
changing salutations, he handed Josephine a testify to their reports in a court of justice, for
written report. She glanced over its contents, that would brand them as common informers.
her face flushing as she read, and at last ex- No! You-you must turn aside the blow, and
claimed, in an indignant tone:             if you really respect Napoleon, I know you wlU
" So-so ! Monsieur Fouche, you have my not!refuse me I
thanks. You have tracked the fox to her den,  "But how V"
and it seems that these new plots against my "Listen. You must see that woman as often
husband come from, a disappointed, jealous as you can. You must keep your eyes and your
woman."tIears open. Note whom she associates.with and
" Madame Bonaparte," interrupted the wily where she goes-who visits her and whom she
chief of police, in an entreating tone, and with visits. And if you will but report all to our
an inquiring glance towards Osmahili.      good friend Fouche here, he will soon unravel
"Never fear him, sir. He has saved General the- mystery."
Bonaparte's life, in Egypt, and con do it again "Really, Madame Bonaparte," observed the
here in Franed, if necessary. Are you notready, functionary, "I could not have given better in-
gallant Osmanli?"'                         structions myself. Who would have thought
"My life is devoted to Genera Bonaparte," that you possessed such talents in our line I"
was the manly reply; and as h ,spoke, Omanli  "Whatever threatens my husband," was -e
I     f

S7

80

I
I

THEIIMEUK.


38                               THE MAMELUKE.
reply, "interests me. But I must dress to re- I shady tries of the Tuileries, but his thoughts
ceive company, and so, gentlemen, adieu until were not of his new mission. Some secret im-
we meet again. I leave Madame de Valmont, pulse directed lis attention to Madame Wilmot,
captain, in your charge."                  her savage bridegroom, her lost child. And 0,
And the gentlemen left. Osmanli, excited by how happy, he thought, would be the child who
what he had heard, paced for hours beneath the could have such a mother.
CHAPTER XI.
A DESPERATE AND SUC0ESSrUL RUSE.
GENERAL BONAPARTE, meanwhile, ruled over when she ascended. Then, she was a slave,
Egypt, where he was equally beloved for his enduring the agony of suspense, and fearing a
clemency and feared for his prowess-. City after fate worse than death-now, the favored protege
city surrendered, town after town opened its of a victorious general, she was on her way to
gates, tribe after tribe came in from their desert win honor in the field of song.
homes with trailing spears, and all acknowledged  At Alexandria, Judith embarked upon the
the supremacy of French rule. Amid the enig- "Republique," a staunch gun-brig, which had
iatical ruins of Thebes, or on the sacred shores managed, thus far, to escape Lord Nelson's
of Palestine-in the fertile gardens that fringed cruisers. The officers were gentlemanly, agree.
the Nile, or on the burning sands of the un- able companions, nor was Bonaparte's letter ne-
tracked, desert, naught, save the plague, impeded cessary to inspire them with a profound esteem
the conqueror's triumphant progress. for their fair passenger. The first few days of
But his happiest hours were passed at Grand the voyage were delightfully pleasant, but little
Cairo, in listening to the fascinating vocalization wind ruffling the surface of the calm Mediterra-
of Judith Fezenzac. Soul-wrapt in song, she nean, and nothing occurring to interrupt the
soon tempered herwonderful natural gifts by a amusements on the quarter-deck, or the varied
purity of intonation and chastity of style, and occupations of the crew. But on the afternoon
even the stern soldier would applaud with de-, of the fifth day the scene was changed.
light, as she poured forth notes fresh as those of  The wind was nearly aft, and the "Repub.
the lark, when.he soars aloft to meet the morn- lique," with all sails out, moved majestically
ing sun. Every note was carefldly rendered, along under her pyramid of snowy canvass.
yet her voice gushed forth with' an exultant "Sail ho I" sung out the man at the mast-head,
bound of freedom, like a mountain torrent, bub- and reported a cutter on the larboard bow, under
bling from its pellucid source. ~And it was her English colors.
heart-hope'that the night would come, when she  Soon, the officers could see her with their
could hold a vast audience spell-bound, as she glasses, and all agreed that it was a beautiful
pang some master-piece, supported by choral craft, although her masts and sails seemed
and instrumental accompaniments.           ,trangely out of proportion to her hull.
Month after month passed, and at last Bona-  "Ease away the braces," said the captain;
part informed Judith that she must prepare to "bring her nearer the wind, quartermaster. Beat
start for Paris, accompanied by her music-master. to quarters I"
This was glad tidings, yet she could but regret  And at'the rapid notes of the drum the men
to part with one who had evinced such paternal hastened to. their guns, to prepare for combat.
fondness for her, and who promised to watch The ports were triced up, the train tackles.rig.
over.her professional career. Giving her letters ged, tompions were taken out, and match-tubs
to Josqphine, and to many influential friendsat made ready. Fires were extinguished, the mag.
Pario,.he bade her gotd-by, and she found her- aine was screened, and the gunner's-crew made
self once more afloat upon the majestic Nile. their prepjarations for passing cartridges. Bulk-
.Butlbow.different her situation from what it was heads were taken down, and Judith's pretty.

I

I

THE MA

cabin vanished like a fairy palace. And mean-
while the sail-trimmers had been busy algft,
reeving preventer slings, lashing the boarding
nettings, and, making everything secure.
At first, the strange craft evidently endeavored
to escape, but, with her disproportionate sails,
she could not evade the "Republique."  All at
once, when the distance between the vessels had
diminished to about half a mile, the light sails
of the . cutter were taken in, and the courses
hauled up.
To the French captain, the cutter had been a
mystery, owing to her peculiar rig, and he had
taken every precaution, lest there should be some
stratagem concealed in the beautiful hull. He
now politely requested Judith and her teacher to
retire below, where they would be out of danger.
Then, gettingin all his light sail, he fired an
unshotted gun.
Let us now see what was going on aboard the
other vessel, which was the Albatross, re-fitted
at Rhodes, and on her way to England with de-
spatches from Lord Nelson. Jack Norman,
when the French brig first hove in sight, saw
that it would be impossible to escape, and he
laid a desperate plan of action. His crew num-
bered thirty men, fierce, desperate fellows, most
of them old imugglers, who now saw that im-
plicit obedience was their only hope of escape
from a French prison.
While his opponent was preparing to capture
him by a coup de main, Norian had his hands
busily occupied in flooding the magazine, and
then spiking the starboard guns. Those on the
larboard side were loaded with grape shot, and
a man stood by each, with spike and hammer,
ready to disable it for action in a moment after
it had discharged its death-dealing contents.
Every man had his boarding cutlass at his side,
pistols in his belt, and a pike at hand.
On came the French brig, her bulwarks crowd-
ed with men, and passing under the stern of the
Albatross, he rounded to, and threw out his
grap*ls. Another moment, and as the yards
of the two vessels clanked together, the brig
towering over the cutter as if to crush her, Nor-
man's clear voice shouted:
"Fire ! Then away 1'
And the blaze was followed by the crash of
shot, entering the planks of the Frenchman, and-
echoed by shrieks.
"IAvancez!" shouted the French captain, and,
followed by the unharmed of his crew, he leaped
e board the Albatross.

Ii

I I

M!ELUKE.                               39
But he found no enemy to combat. Norman,
followed by his crew, had boarded the French
vessel by- the stern, as her crew left the bows,
and immediately began to cast off the grapnels.
The astonished Frenchmen, the moment they
comprehended their error, endeavored to return
to their vessel, but in vain. Norman and his
resolute crew, havingmastered the few on board,
were able to defend the side, and the vessels
soon surged apart. Then, manning the guns,
the delighted Englishmen poured broadside after
broadside into their late craft, which the French
were vainly endeavoring to get before the wind.
But the cut rigging and spiked cannon showed
so plainly that they were victims of a cunning
plan, that the French crew refused to work. In
vain did the captain urge and then threaten them.
Their courage, their hope, their confidence in
him were gone.
Maddened to desperation at the sight of his
fine vessel sailing proudly away from him, whilst
his crew refused to aid in recovering her, the
French captain left the deck. A few moments
more, and a lurid flame gleamed up through the
hatchways of the cutter, followed by cries of de-
spair and agony, for the Frenchmen saw that one
of two dreadful deaths was inevitably to be their
lot. The flames burned with terrific brilliancy,
and it was easy to see by the heavy rolling of
the cutter that she was water-logged. At length
the flames reached the magazine, and although
the powder had,been flooded, the explosion sent
up a huge column of fragments-then, all was
still. The French captain had buried himself
and his disgrace in a watery grave. Norman
hove to, and lowered a boat, but every man had
perished.
Judith, immured below, had plainly heard the
din of the tumult. The tearing and splintering
of the cutter's broadside-the collision of the two
vessels-the sharp report of small arms, as the
French boarders were repelled from their own
vessel-and then the terrific explosion. All had,
in turn, heightened her fears, while her poor
teacher, upon his knees, vowed offerings to half
the saints in the calendar in casebf deliverance.
At last, all was quiet again, and then the wel-
come form of the cabin-boy was seen descending
the ladder.
" Ah ah !" exclaimed the teacher, "all is well,
my brave lad!I' Cati I not leave my pupil and
ai4 in defending the vessel 1"
" Hush "' whispered the boy, "we are pris.
oners."


40                     THE MAMELUKE.

"Prisoners I" jaculated the cowardly Italian, steered boldly into Southampton roads. Often,
and falling on his knees again, he-re-commenced wtien on a smuggling expedition, he had stole
his devotions. But Jadith, with that womanly in, at the dead of night, seeking the friendly
courage that is ever ready in a case of real emer- shade of the high cliffs. But now, treading the
gency, inquired into the particulars of the com- quarterdeck of his prize with exultant pride, he
bat. Her pallid cheek flushed as the boy went shortened sail with precise method, until the
on with his narrative, but all at once a happy Republique, under her topsails and jib, was
thought seemed to strike her. She remembered moving quietly along towards the outer mooring.
Osmanli-her rescue from the harem-and the    So well known was the vessel, that her ap.
ring she wore. Drawing it from her finger, she proach was chronicled in the town, and on board
sent it to the new commander f the " Repub- every ship in the anchored squadron, long before
lique," with a hope that the talisman might be she approached. The quays were covered with
recognized.                                spectators, and the bulwarks of the vessels were
The boy left, and the agonized suspense of the crowded, all wondering what the noted French
poor girl can be easier imagined than described. cruiser was thus coming for, and with the Eng-
But he soon returned, accompanied by Jack lisli ensign at her mast-head. Soon agun pealed
Norman, to whose dashing features victory had from the largest frigate, which bore a rear-
imparted a pleasing look. Norman, whilst en- admiral's fiag at the mizen, and three small balls
gaged in smuggling from France, had acquired rose to her fore, where they fluttered out as sig-
a smattering of the language, and he lost no nals. They were unintelligible to Jack Norman,
time in quieting her fears,                but knowing that he was over safe anchorage, he
" Tho daughter of .a brother,:' he said, "is had his canvass brailed up, and the Republique
ever safe," andin an hour's time Judith was re- soon lay safely moored. Then, ordering a boat
installed in her cabin, while theRepublique, to be manned, he went on board of the flag-ship.
under English colors, "walked the waters like  We shall not attempt to descrie the enthusi-
a thing of life."  The.fortress of Malta-was visi- astic. greetig which Jack Norm  received, or
ble-the next-morning, but Jack Norman-thought the rejoicings which followed his arrival. But
it best to continue his course direct for England. the honest smuggler did not forget Judith, and
Never was there a captain prouder of his vessel the admiral promised to send her to France by
--never ,wasthere a crew more attached to their the first ship bearing letters of marque. As for
commander. Loud laughteruand merry songs Signor Quavero, her music-master, he assumed
raig over the decks from  morning to hight, half the glory of the capture, and Jack Norman
sometimes ehequered by - erudite calculations as found him one night in the streets of Southamp-
to the probable-value of each share of the prize ton, gloriously drunk, and relating his wonderful
money. On one point, however, all agreed. exploits.
Each man resolved to give one half-of what he  In,a few days a vessel came from Dover, on
received to Captain Norman--the originator and its way to Havre with prisoners to be exchanged.
the leader of their success.               Jack Norman, when he came to announce the
It was rather amusing to witness honest Jack's fact to Judith, brought her a ring similar to the
attempts to play the host,-and do the honors of one she wore, which he asked permission to ex-
the cabin to his fair passenger. To show her change for hers. But Judith no sooner saw it
appreciation of-his kindness, she endeavored to than she shrieked:
harmonize some of the rude ditties trolled forth  "Wheredid you obtain this ?"
upn the forecastle, and he was enthusiastic in  "From a. passenger, mademoiselle, whqgave
his.praise when she thus rendered "Black-Eyed it to me as Lwas leaving Smyrna with him in
Susan." the Albatrossa"
"'Tis worth," he said, " all the foreign lingo  "And where is he ?"
in the world, and coming fromyourosweet mouth,  "Alas, I fear he is drowned !"
it sounds like the boatswain's whistle when the  The poor girl fell in a swoon, and when she
enemy is ia sight."                        recovered her senses, she was again on ship-
T    Ue passage to England was a pleasant one, board, and the white cliffs of England were fad-
said nothing occurredto mar ,the harmonyand iug into the distance. No language can paint
rejoicing onboar4the captured_ vesseL At st the wretchedness of that young mourner, as her
the chalky cliffs of England were plainly visibi  suffefings.found utterance, and the sweet recol-
and, passing the fertile island of Wight, Norman . elections of her father's love melted into tears.

9

9

CHAPTER XII*
STRANGE AND SAD TABLEAUX.

WINTER enveloped Paris with his snowy man- ing through stained glass windows, partially ob-
tie, and Osmanli, deprived of his kind hostess, scured by heavy crimson damask curtains, gave
now found that nowhere is solitude so perfect as everything a soft, flesh-like tone of luxurious
in the heart of a large cit. In the wildest forest, life. Rich carpets, upon which the heaviest tread
or the smallest hamlet, where the din of traffic fell unheard, covered the floor-mythological
is not heard, and where the wheels of pleasure paintings, in their nude voluptuousness, decked
leave no trace, humanity and sympathy, under the walls-flowers perfumed the air,-whilst the
some of their varied aspects, will ever greet the whole scene was reflected in mirrors of great
stranger. Some one will be led-by curiosity-  size and purity, set in heavily gilded.frames.
or by goodness of heart-or by charity-to visit  And here, where everything blended harmoni-
the stranger, and to cheer his solitary hours. ously, Madame de Valmont's fascinating beauty
But in a large city, a stranger is emphatically was more apparent. Arrayed in her morning.
alone. The busy tide of restless humanity ebbs dress, which disclosed the luxurious fulness of -
and flows all around, but no one thinks of, or her form, she only lacked the pure blush of mod-
cares for the friendless. s esty to have personated Venus herself, in the
Osmanli, anxious to show his devotion to regal pride of matchless charms. Her large ex-
General Bonapartq, and at the same time seek- pressive eyes would appear to float, like sunset
ing society, soon passed most of his time at the clouds, in purity,-her rosy nostrils would dilate
house of Madame de Valiont., But in endeav- with heart passion,-and her full ruby lips,
oring to watch her movements, he soon forgot would pout archly forth fronI her peachy, dim-
to keep guard over his own heart. Then Eros pIed cheeks, the upper one shaded by a piquant
came, hand in hand with Psyche, to stir the tracery of raven down. Often, as she sat chat-
young man's blood, and sweep over his trem- ting with Osmanli, her maid would comb out the
bling heart-strings with convulsive movements. thick, clustering curls, until they enveloped her
Tighter and tighter the wily enchantress drew bust like a silken veil, and th n arrange it in
the meshes of her cunning entanglements, and such form as to add beauty to the contour of her
sdo every morning found her \ victim in her classical face. And never was a snare more cun-
boudoir. A fit retreat it was for one so fasci- niugly laid, than the half-toilet which was thus
nating and so bewitching. The sunlight, pass- exhibited.


i

42                               THE MA
Step by step, Osmanli's pure heart melted be-
fore the bright glances of his enchantress; nor
was it long before he became a convert to the
Epicurean doctrines which lull the Parisians to
repose, as they float down the current of pleasure.
War,, love, wine, music, pleasure and opium,
are looked upon as so many drugs, each produc-
ing a different effect, but each as fit for indul-
gence as the others.
One evening, Mdadame de Valmont called in
her carriage for Osmanli, and took him to a
masked ball, atthe Grand Opera House. The
spacious pit was floored over on a level with the
stage, and upon the large area revelled thou-
sands of maskers, intoxicated with wine and joy.
Seen from one of the boxes, which Madame de
Valmont had engaged, the floor appeared like a
vast cauldron, where wild folly was fomenting,
throwing out from its borders a foaming noise,
and sending up to the overhanging chandeliers
a mist of warm breath. The imperious notes of
the orchestra pealed above the general clamor,
the sharp tones of post-horns coming in clearly
from time to time, as - one sees the flash of can-
non through the thickest of the smoke. Thou-
sands of lights seemed to flicker in joyous time
to the music, casting a lurid glance upon the
multitude of gay costumes below, as ever chang-
ing as the, hues of the kaleidoscope. Each eye
had a wink-each mouth a cry-each arm a
mocking gesture-each form a provoking move-
ment. The floor trembled under the pattering
of indefatigable feet, and a more compact, parti-
colored mosaic of humanity cannot be imagined.
Hark! 'The leader of the orchestra gives the
signal for the commencement of the gallop. A
sort of heaving takes place in the thick waves at
the firstnotes of the post-horn,acurrentis gradual-
ly established, and soon the triumphant gallopade
sweeps around the area. In the centre, those
makers who did not join in the diabolical round
formed stagnant groups-human islands which
remained stationary. The whirlpool around them
hastened and leaped onwards. A charge of cav-
alry sweeping down upon a square of infantry
could not make a louder or heavier noise, and
Osmanli was remindedof the impetuous hordes
of Mourad Bey. Circling like a maelstrom, it
was a symbol of the evolutions of humanity,
which sweep individuals into irresistible masses.
As the night wore on, Osmanli and his com-
panion left their box, and joined the promenaders
in the saloon of the theatre. Here, everything
was decorous and mysterious. No gentlemen

MELUKE.
were admitted in disguise, but every lady was
masked, and so concealed by a black domino
hood, as to render recognition next to impossi-
ble. Madame de Valmont, who was in her ele-
ment, spoke to several gentlemen, and intrigued
one or two by her knowledge of their love affairs.
All at once Osmanli started, for the well known
tones of Judith Fezenzacfell upon his ear. Could
it bepossible ? He eagerly surveyed the masked
forms around him, but could not distinguish
any one that could be her, and soon the thought
was chased from his mind, by the bewitching
folly of his wild-hearted companion.
Yet it was Judith's voice that he had heard.
She had arrived at Paris, with a broken
and a sad heart, but Josephine, receiving her
into her house, endeavored to dispel her grief.
When she had subdued the poor girl's outward
sorrow, she begaeto question her as to the state-
of her heart, and only that morning Judith had
confessed that Osmanli, above all other men,
had won her love. "Poor girl," thought Jose-
phine, "another hope is to be disappointed ;"
but she refrained from telling her that the young
Mameluke had been entranced by a designing
woman. And she had persuaded her to attend
the ball, in the hope that it would divert her
mind. They had not entered, however, ere they
saw the enraptured Osmauli, and an exclama-
tion involuntarily escaped from Judith's lips.
" Hush!" whispered Josephine. "I would
not for worlds be recognized, especially by the
demon who accompanies your faithless lover.
But now you see why he has not called upon
me, and why he has forgotten his duty; let us
go to the police-box. You shall, ere morning,
administer a pointed rebuke to your feeble-hearted
swain. After all, poor fellow, perhaps he can-
not help it."
Never was there a more truthful supposition.
Bewildered by the blaze, deafened by the noise,
and entranced by the music, Osmanli lost all
self-command. And when tlte adroit plotter
against his happiness left the gay scene with
him, to partake of supper at a neighboring res-
taurant, he was completely in her power. ' The-
house was crowded, but the keeper had one pri-
-vate room disengaged, and they at once took
possession of it. It was not large, and at one
end were folding-doors, which apparently com-
municated with an adjoining room. A sumptu-
ous supper was soon served, and, when all was
ready, and the domestic had left the room, Ma-
dame do Yalmont said: -

THE MAM

I4

"And to whom ?" asked Madame de Val-
mont, drawing herself up with queenlike dignity.
" To Fouche-to Madame Bonaparte. Pity-"
"Pity you, you-but.her, never. Traitress
that she is, will she ever thwart my projects ?"
"Yes, madame !" said a voice at their sides.
It was the unmistakeable voice of Josephine!
Both sprang ~to their feet, and saw, with aston-
ishment, that the folding-doors were thrown
open. And there, encircled by police officers,
stood Madame Bonaparte, her eyes flashing fire I

"Now, dear Osmanli, I will take off this mask
about which you have grumbled so much."
Never did the sun, after a total eclipse, beam
forth with such brilliancy as did -that matchless
creature, when she threw off her disguise.
Dressed in the scanty ball toilet of the times,
which displayed the classical development of her
form, and left her fine arms bare to the shoulder,
she appeared to Osmanli like some visitor from
fairy land. A collar of blazing diamonds decked
her beautifully moulded bust, and never did a
sparkling river wind over a fairer bed. Nor
could the enraptured young man gaze upon her
pure complexion and her classical features, with-
out thinking that he saw that loveliness which
Phidias sculptured-the Parian marble marvel-
lously animated by the fire of life.
Filling glasses to the brim with pearl-mantled
champagne, she pledged Osmanli again and
again, merely sipping the wine herself, while he
drained his every time. Then, with flashing
eyes, she continued her remarks in such a tone,
and with such allusions as inflamed his imagina-
tion. Ecstasy surcharged every part of his soul's
faculties, and rapturous joy sent his heart's blood,
by forced marches, joyfully parading through his
frame. At last conversation ceased. Osmanli's
heart heaved convulsively, and his noble nature
at last prompted him to avow his deceit. Throw.
ing himself at her feet, he confessed his love, his
worship, his adoration-but regretted his un-
worthiness.
"Unworthy? No! dearest Osmanli !" was
the reply, in syren tones, and the crafty wotuan
leaned her downcast head upon one of her ex-
quisitely tapering arms, the glossy fringe of hei
long drooping eye-lashes falling upon her cheeks,
and Contrasting deeply with the light blushe
that rose to meet them.
"0, forgive me !" said Osmanli, in heart.
touching tones. "Forgive me. But I am bul
a base, degraded spy, who has agreed to betra:
you.-"

BLURE.48
"Yes, madame 1 can thwart your diabolical
plans, and, with God's help, I will. This is no
place for a scene, but I will tell you that, over-
hearing a part of your conversation at the opera,
whither I went to distract a young friend, I de-
termined to sound the depths. of your infamy.
Feeling certain that you would sup, I had in-
structions sent to all the neighboring restaurants,
and let you have gone where you would, I
should have been a listener. Henceforth, dare
not show your guilty countenance where I am,
and remember that the police will watch your
every movement. As for you, Captain Osmanhi,
a glance at my companion, who, like myself has
been a witness of your infatuated treachery, will
perhaps recall you to your senses. And as Os-
manli raised his eyes, Madame-Bonaparte lifted
the hood of her trembling friend. It was Judith
Fezenzac, and 0, what an reproachful look of
sorrow beamed from her expressive eyes.
Another moment, and the folding doors had
been closed, leaving the guilty couple 'alone-
again.
'Maledictions upon her heid," muttered Ma-
dame de Valmont, her features worked into a
furious expression of hatred. I will yet be re-
venged. Come, Osmanli, call for the bill, and
let us leave this den of spies."
Mechanically and without a word, Osmanli
settled with the host, called a carriage,- and
handed in his companion. Then, closing the
door of the vehicle, and unmindful of the calls
of the now frightened woman, he walked away
at a rapid pace.
On-on he strode! Now jostling those whom
he met-now stepping aside into the gutter, in
order to pass those who occupied the narrow
sidewalks, and were too tardy in their move-
ments for his excited frame. Penetrating into
the midst of the mighty labyrinths of stone and
mortar, he did not pauseuntil he reached the
old bridge across the Seine, near the cathedral
of Notre Dame.
It was a tempestuous night, the rain falling in
torrents, and the winds howling through the
.arches of the bridge with a voice of lamentation,
to which the gurgling water responded as it
rushed along. Stopping when over the centre
arch, Osmanli leaned over the parapet, and gazed
into -the foaming waters beneath. Joy, fierce
and thrilling, now animated his heart, for peace
lay in the eddying whirlpool into which he gazed,
as it whirled around its dimp-d centre, like the
hawk circling around its distant prey, contract-

- I

4


44                               THE MAMRLUXEA
ing its verge until it bore down to death in the ery of his own despair, he burst into a hysterical
depths below. All around was like his own laugh, which seemed answered from below. His
heart, dark, tumultuous, and tempest-tossed. reason tottered-strange and horrible faces mock
No ray of light cheered the darkness of his soul ed him--unknown voices muttered, and hissed,
-no bright and lovely moon struggled with the and groaned in his ear-and at last, a maniac
clouds of his destiny-nothing presented itself rage taking possession of his soul, he sprang into
that was cheering or consoling. Madly he in- the water. There was a plash, a cry, and then
voked the winds, and asked to be swept into the the waves whirled around with glassy surface,
dark bosom of the waters. Then, as if in mock- while the winds howled-arequiemfor the suicide
CHAPTER XIII.
- THE RESCUE-THE CATACOMBS.
MADAME DE VALMONT, when Osmanli, left "How," asked Mada
her, ordered her coachman to drive to Notre this happen?"
Dame. Enraged by her exposure, her unbridled  "But a few moments s
passions raged and boiled within her undisci- "I was coming hither in
plined heart. Now, she heaped the bitterest de- escape detection, and ent
nunciations upon Josephine Bonaparte-now, a drain, opening into
she avowed for Osmanli a passionate love which dral. Just as I approa
triumphed over delicacy-now, she cursed Mar. heard a heavy splash in
gry as the destroyer of her happiness-and, in men lay on their muf
the intervals, a thousand wild plans for the fu- along, and, to my great
ture floated through her infuriated brain. Truly risc to the surface of th
has the poet said: "Hell has no fury like a clutched it. One of my
woman scorned."                            me, and we soon had
At last the carriage stopped, and before the boat. Of course, I dare
coachman could lower the steps, the maddened him brought here, where
woman had leaped to the pavement. Passing ing to resuscitate him.
through scenes described in a preceding chapter,  "One of Fouche's spi
she reached the catacombs, but found an un- "Nay, nay," answer
looked-for sight. On a mattress placed upon already found tokens on
the council-table, lay the body of a man, wet and longs to an alliance w
dripping, over whom Count Vergennes was among its members. B
bending in careful attention. It was-could it him2"
be? yes ! it was Osmanli. There lay the object  "Know him? Why
of her wily machinations, in that death-like, the renegade, who confe
heavy helplessness which characterizes those since, that he was empl
taken from a watery grave. duct."
" Thank God !" said the count, "he breathes At this moment Osma
at last," and soon the livid blue lips assumed a looked around with a dii
roseate hue, while a faint color stole over the All at once his eye brigh
pallid features. He opened his eyes, but they stood behind Madame de
encountered Madame de Valmont, and he closed which restored life and I
hem with a groan of anguish.  '     .     stricken heart. The my

ne de Valmont, "did
ince," replied the count,
a boat, which I use to
er by what is apparently
he river near the cathe-
hed the city bridge, I
the water, and my boat-
led oars. We drifted
joy, I saw a dark object
e water, so near that I
boatmen sprang to aid
this poor fellow in our
d not land, and so Ihad
I have been endeavor-
Who can it be ?"
as," was the reply.
d the count. "I have
his person that he be-
which numbers no spies
ut tell me, do you know
this is Captain Osmanli,
ssed to me, not an hour
)yed to watch my con-
nli opened his eyes, and
sturbed, dreamy glance.
tened. The count, who
Valmont, made a sign
aniimation to the death-
setic signal was returned,


46                    THE MAMELUKE.

and Osmanli, raising his head, again looked
around.
" Where am I?" he inquired. "A tomb-
human bones-weapons-and, and, 0 enchant-
ress, have you followed me into another world,
to again ruin my happiness ?"
"Be tranquil, my brother," said the count, in
a gentle tone. Then he rang a bell, and a ser-
vant appearing, he ordered him to show the
boatmen the-way to his bed-room, for a portion
of the catacombs had been fitted up with every
comfort. Hither Osmanli was to be carried,
then divested of his wet clothes and put to bed.
" Are you mad ?" asked Madame de Valmont,
her beautiful features convulsed with rage.,
"MadI Do you call it madness, madame, to
rescue a human being from destruction-espe-
cially when that individual is bound to you,by a
mystic tie ?"
" Well, sir count, if you harbor spies, and en-
courage our enemies, it will be a long time ere
the Bourbons return to France."
But what can I do,under the circumstances ?"
"What can you do ?" shrieked the infuriated
woman, almost delirious with rage. " Why, let
me have the craven, and I will send his head to
Josephine -Bonaparte as a keepsake, while the
fishes shall feast on his treacherous heart.
Wretch that he-"
" Silence, madame," interrupted the count.
"Such lanj~uage cannot be tolerated here, nel-

other can your private wrongs interfere with the
cause-a cause which recognizes Christianity."
"Perdition take your cause, and your besotted
Bourbons. I only used you as a tool to'gratify
my revenge against Josephine Bonaparte, but
now I leave you to your new associate. Ha!
ha! The elegant Count de Vergennes and a
renegade spy! Adieu. I leave you to play the
host." And the desperate woman left the vault.
" She will not dare betray me," murmured the
count, and he then repaired to the  ouch where
he had ordered Osmanli to be laid. He had re-
covered from the effects of his immersion, but
the count restrained his-thanks.
"You now need repose," he said, "and we
will converse hereafter. That I am your friend,
you know; nor is it necessary to tell you that
you are in a portion of the catacombs of. Paris.
To-morrow I will tell you more. Adieu, and
pleasant dreams to you."
Would that Osmanli could have slept, but it
was out of the question. Hour after hour he
tumbled about upon his couch, with the sound of
the rushing waters ringing in his ears, and no
air to breath. Choking, he seemed to descend,
then to rise again, gasping for breath. And
Madame de Valmont, with a smile on her lips,
would then again precipitate him into the watery
abyss. At last he closed his aching eyes, and
sank, exhausted, into troubled repose.

Nnws from France reached Egypt, informing
Boniaparte that the moment was at hand when,
by casting granite-like edicts upon the moving
sands of revolutionary misrule, he could lay the
foundations for an imperial throne. Making
hasty and secret preparations, lest his design
should be suspected by the English fleet then
hovering off the coast, the victorious general re-
embarked for France. Fortune favored her war-
like son, and after a speedy passage, through
tempests and hostile fleets, he arrived at Frejus,
a small town on the coast, not very far from
Marseilles. Quarantine regulations were set at
defiance, and the decks of his ships were soon
crowded with civil and military functionaries,
who shouted "Hurra for Bonaparte and victory!
we prefer the plague to Austrian invaders."
Even the wounded soldiers left their hospital, to

4
i
I

welcome him as he landed;and the entire popu-_
lation greeted him as the only man who could
restore stability and concord to a distracted na-
tion. The church bells rang forth joyous peals,
the cannon roared, bands of martial music were
harmonious in their glad strains of welcome.
But Bonaparte was indifferent to all these mani-
festations of devotion. Poison had adroitly been
mingled in his cup of happiness, and the sorrow
he felt more than counterbalanced his ambitious
pride.

Madame do Valmont, influenced by the curl
osity of her sex, was so eager to hear with what
success Colonel Lowe was pursuing his diaboli-
cal plans, that when she feared to remain longer
in Paris, she repaired to Marseilles. A few
mornings after her arrival, a courier came from
Frejus, and reported Bonaparte's arrival from
Egypt. Starting at once, she arrived just as the
conqueror landed, and managed to have a note
handed to him, in which she accused Josephine
of having transferred her affections.to his brother
Joseph. The note concluded thus:
"As proof of what I have asserted, you will
find, on arriving at Paris, that the guilty couple
have fled; upon what pretence I cannot say.
But I know that your guilty wife will not dare
to face you, and that she boasts that it is only
the first burst of your stormy passions which she

dreads.

A DEVOTED FRIEND." .

Need it be wondered at that the jealous hus-
band was in haste to arrive at his home, although
he endeavored to persuade himself that it was a
miserable invention. The official ovation with
which he was received on landing seemed to oc-
cupy an age, and it was with difficulty that the
authorities of Lyons detained him one day.
"FasterI faster I" was his oft-repeated exclama

CHAPTER XIV.
NAPOLEON IN FRANCE.

0


48

tion, and the smoking wheels of his carriage
whirled over hill and dale with greater speed
than those of many a modern locomotive. In
vain did the rural population line the road, with
shouts of gladness, and offerings of gratitude.
A rapid glance was all they could obtain-a
passing bow was all the return for their display.
Yet they murmured not, but hailed him as the
rising suan, which was to dispel the long night of
national gloom.
Onward! onward! The olive groves of Pro-
venee-the vine-clad fields of Rurgundy-the
forests of Fontainbleau-all were passed as one
sees a quick moving panorama. And at last,
seated in its natural amphitheatre, Paris appears
in sight. It was a bright morning, and the sun,
which flashed from the graceful.domes of the
Pantheon and the Invalides Chapel, cast dark
shadows behind the massive towers of Notre
Dame and of Saint Jacques. There, in the cen-
tre of the civilized world, had the conqueror
hoped to plant his future seat of empire. There,
on a locality rich and rare in historical assecia.
tions, had he hoped to found a dynasty that
would overthrow the present, and overshadow
the past. A dynasty that would gleam like the
salient domes before him Upon the pages of his-
tory, and would cast the reigns of Charlemagne,
and Clovis-the Bourbons and the Valois-far'
into the shade. But now,- no such ambitious
projects-occupied histhoughts. All the sway
he coveted was over one heart. Was his Jose-
phine true to him, or had she fled to hide her
blushes of shame? -
He reached the gateway of his residence, and,
ere the porter could recover his surprise at see-
ing his master thus hurriedly return, Bonaparte
was in the house. All was quiet, Hastening
up stairs into his wife's room, he found it empty,
and, worse thanthat, bearing marks of having
been recently left. Drawers had been emptied,
tse travyelling trunks were gone and the unhappy
husband felt his worst fears confirmed. The
bell summoned a domestic.
" Where is Madame Bonaparte'?"
"She left early this morning, general, in great
haste."p
" Alone "
"No, general, your brother Joseph accompa-
nied her."
A groan forced itself from the' heart of the
wretched husband, and he motioned the aston-
ished servant to withdraw. Substantial happi-
ness was now fully exchanged for sicky doubt,

the soft light of trusting affection was obscuied,
and jealousy held possession of his every sense.
Ordinarily, his powerful will controlled any dis.
play of jealousy; but now, his whole frame was
convulsed; the "green-eyed monster," like a
barbaric horde, overwhelming all that was ex-
cellent in his character. Any other blow he
could have borne up against-his philosophy.
would have borne him up under the weight of
any other affliction. But his strickeni heart
writhed in anguish, beneath the grinding thought
that she in whom heahad centered every joy, had
turned from him to a preferred rival. And that
rivl, too, was a brother-one against whom he
could not draw a sword. Beaded drops of agony
studded his forehead, and ineffable anguish was
depicted on every feature.nu
There was-a gentle tap at the door, but Bona
parte heard it not. Twice was it repeated, and
then the door opened, but the sorrow-stricken
man saw not who entered. And it was not until
he felt a gentle pressure upon his arm that he
looked up. Seeing a female form, he at first
thought it was Josephne, and he clenched his
teeth with rage. But he gave a look, and saw
Judith Fezenzac, more beautiful than ever, al-
though her cheeks wore that delicate pallid hue
which is so closely imitated by Powersrin his
matchless statue of the Greek Slave. Clasping
his hand in hers, she said, in a confiding,.gentle
tone
They told me that you had arrived alone,
and thinking you would feel disappointed at not
receiving a welcome from your loving wife, I
ventured to intrude."
"ButJosephine -n"
"Has gone to meet you."
"To meet meeWhy, my nightingale, that
is impossible, for I have heralded my approach
myself."
"No indeed, general. About daybreak this
morning a-lady rang at the gate., and said that
an officer had*arrived, bringing news that fou
had arrived at FreJus. He also had a written
request from you that Madame and your brother
Joseph would leave at once for Orleans, to meet
you. By an aceient his carriage was over-
turned, and he had not only lost the missive,.
but had, received .such 'an injury that he could
only reach her house, and she had brought the
lette-."
"And did Josephine credit this falsehood"
'I Creditit, general ?" continued Judith; " why
she was ovejoyed to think that you had thus

i

THE MAMELE=1.4

THE HMELUIKE.

4
I
I
I

given hers an opportunity to meet you, and enjoy o
first greetings away from-the -public gaze." s
The door opened, and a-lady entered.  -
"Dearmother I" exclaimed-Bonaparte  how
kind of you to come thus to greet me."
"Welcome to France, my son," said Madame
Bonaparte, and as she took of her bonnet, Ju- t
dith could scarcely credit that she was the mother
of thirteen children. Her majestic figure re- 
tained its early grace,, her passionate dark eyes 1i
were undimmed,, and age had. left few traces
upon her symmetrical countenance. "Welcome t
to France, my son I I have hastened to meet
you, because some one left at  y house this t
morning an anonymous note, informing me that
Josephine had behaved improperly, and had gone
off to escape your anger, so I was advised to I
come and recommend you to discard her."
"And you do, mother'?"
"Not I, Napoleon, not I! Light hearted sheI
may be-volatile she may be-fond of gayety she
may be-but she is as true to you, -my son, as
the moon to.the sun."
Some one knocked-General Bonaparte open-
ed the door, and was delighted to see Fouche.
After cordial greetings, the cunning police-agent
asked, with a smile:
"Is it customary in Egypt, general, to have a
lady precede you on a journey ."
" Sir !" said Bonaparte, in a frigid tone, for
he thought it was an allusion to his wife.
"10 nothing, general. But the reports from
the south show that a lady of fashion took post-
horses at Frejus an hour after you landed, and,
fast as you afterwards travelled, she reached the
capital nearly a day in advance of you."
"And who was this female Mercury'!"
" Madame de Valmont. I don't know, but I
fear she is getting herself into difficulty, and
will yet seethe inside of a prison." i
"Have you your letter, mother?~" inquired
Bonaparte.
Here it is, my son," replied Madame Bona-
parte, and she soon handed him -the epistle.
The general took from his pocket that which he
had received at Frejus, and handed both to
Foucho.
What do you think of these notes!"V .I
"Think, general,  Why the first glance tells
me that they were written by the same person,I
6n paper from the same ream, and, see, each is
sealed with a signet ring bearing the letter V,.
Now " (and he toolca third letter from his coat-
pocket), "here is aletter written in the same hand,

n the same kind of paper, and stamped with the
ame seal. But this is sighed, plainly enough,.
de Valmont.'
"Therefore, my old'flame wrote all."
Exactly, general, and preceded you here."
Stepping across the room, Bonaparte pulled
he bell-rope with such force that it broke. When
he servant responded to the summons, he sent
'in-for the porter. That functionary was not
ong in arriving, and was questioned thus:
" Was it you who received a message early
this morning Vi
hIt -was,general," and the domestic quailed
before the iron glance of his interrogator.
"And who was the lady ?"
The porter turned crimson, then pale, and his
lips moved without sound.
" One question, general, if you please," said
Fouche. "Tell me, fellow, how much did she
give you "
" A golden twenty-five, franc piece, sir."
"0, ho 1" exclaimed the wily police agent.
"That was liberal in Madame de Valmont, was
it not .'
The poor follow sank on his knees. "Forgive
me, general," he cried;    knew not that Idid
harm. The lady was evidently vexed that I
recognized her, and she begged me to keep si-
lent, for she did not wish it known that the officer
who brought the message was at her house. I
had no idea-"'
"Never mind, my good fellow,". interrupted
Bonaparte, "your ideas are of little value. This
once I forgive you, but never have any secrets
again, even if you do receive gold."
" Plague take the gold," murmured the man,
as he bowed himself out, "I will see it changed
into good wine without delay."
" By the way," inquired Bonaparte, "where
is Captain Osmanli?~"
Judith turned pale, but Fouche responded,
and informed the general how the young man
had been led from his'duty. During his recital,
Bonapare rose from his chair, took snuff vehe-
mently, and when the story was concluded
with the abrupt disappearance from the ball, he
exclaimed:       41
. "Poor fellow,poor fellow. Hark ye, Monsieur
Fouche, your police spying is all very fine, but I
never wish you to enlist my officers in it. They
have other duties."
" You shall be obeyed, general," answered
the obsequious agent, whose sagacity foresaw
Bonaparte's coming power. "Nevertheless, I

49


50                  TEE MALE9LUt.

thought-that this Captain Osmanli came here on
rather an inquisitive mission."-
"Brigand I" said Napoleon, with a smile,
"nothing escapes you., Butis not that a carriage
I hear entering the court-yard'?"
A moment more, and Maddme 1Bonaparte,
who had just left the room, re-entered, leading
Josephine. Never did the faultless symmetry of
form, and the classic features of the bewitching
Creole appear to greater advantage. The jour-
ney had animated the languor of her complexion
with a roseate hue, and one glance from her
flashing eyes melted away her husband's doubts,

as the last fall of snow disappears before the
warm sunbeams of spring.
"Welcome home !"
"Thanks, thanks, my dear wife. You have
been duped, and I have been miserable; but how
can I doubt you, when I see all the truth of your
innocent heart reflected from your loved counte-
nance." And opening his arms, the conqueror
pressed Josephine to his heart, and wept.
Every one else left the room, for the scene was
too sacred for mortal eyes to witness. From
that moment, his 'Wife became his confidant. He
recognized her as a guardian, angel, and submit-
ted to her guidance.

I
I
I
I

CHAPTER XV.
ANk ttNEXETED  ziTElRUPTIOR.

BoNAPAnTE had not ,passed many days in
Paris, ere he was looked to by all as the man
who should seize the helm of state and pilot the
vessel of state into more peaceful waters. The
enthusiastic reception with which he had been
received showed the tone of national feeling, and
he became forcibly impressed with the necessity
of speedily accomplishing his long thought of
plans. To deliver France from the domination
of unprincipled factions, to surround'her with a
glory which should surpass even that of ancient
Rome, and to make himself the arbiter of her
destinies, was the great and worthy object of his
ambitious thoughts.
Retiring to a beautiful country-seat, named
Malmaison, which Josephine had purchased dur-
ing his absence, he kept perfectly tranquil, but
began to cautiously fathom the men who were
to be selected as subordinate actors in the ap-
proaching drama.' Meanwhile his political plans
were actively going forward, through the active
instrumentality of his few initiated friends, and
most of' the superior officers wore engaged to
support him. The rest, he well knew, would
follow their leaders, and Atchanically act in
obedience to the impulse imparted to them.
The volatile Farisians, however, grumbled
loudly at the seclusion of their idol, and one
evening Bonaparte suddenly decided' to gratify

them by appearing in public, and at the same
time to fulfil a long-given promise. The next
morning, while the residents of Malmaison were
breakfasting, the papers arrived from  Peris
Bonaparte and Josephine glanced eagerly at the
political news, but Judith, wedded to her art,
looked at the musical intelligence.
Was it a dream? She sat, looking intently
at the paragraph as if entranced, until Josephine
read from the journal she was perusing?
" We understand that General Bonaparte will
haflor the opera with his presence on Monday
eveniflg next, to assist at the debut of Mademola
selle Judith rezenzac, a young vocalist of rare
merit, who has come from the East under him
patronage."
" Ah ha!" said Bonaparte. "tDid I not tell
my nightingale that I should soon applaud her
performances. Don't look so frightened, Judith,
we have each to make our bow before the public/
and we must put stout hearts upon the matter,
The manager will soon be here, and will take
you into the city for rehearsal."
"Kind, generous man I" exclaimed Judith@
"Amid all your varied. occupations, you have
,thought of the poor orphan, an4-"
"And," interrupted. Bonaparte, "here come
the manager's carriage. -o run to yotat roOm


THE MAMEUKE..

and get ready. Should you feel timid on Mon-
day evening, remember that in my dictionary
there is no such word as fail."
Great was the demand for tickets, and long
before the doors of the opera house were opened
on the appointed evening, the adjacent streets
were thronged with brilliant equipages, hackney
coaches, and curious pedestrians. At last the
hour came, and soon every part of the house
was crowded. The boxes were filled with ladies
in full dress, proud in the consciousness of sur-
passing loveliness, and expecting not only to be
enchanted by the debutante, but to enchant oth-
ers by their charms. In the pit were the critics,
their faces sharpened by expectation of the new
prey within their grasp. And all over the house
were right-worthy citizens, with their portly wives
and their blushing daughters, eager to see the
patron of the night. All present evidently con-
sidered him as one upon whose expression hung
the fate of the nation; "a look where men might
read strange matters."
At last a prolonged roll of the drums without
was heard, but the clang of the martial salute by
the guard was soon drowned by repeated cheer-
ing. Again and again shouts were heard-they
dame up the staircase-they echoed'through the
lobby. Within the house a deathlike silence
reigned, 'but -when the door of the reserved box
was opened, and Bonaparte appeared, loud
shouts of welcome rang from pit to dome. The
orchestra, inspired with the prevalent enthusiasm,
struck up the Marseilles Hymn, and nearly all
present, as if frantic with joy, joined in its in-
spiring chorus.
. The object of this boisterous homage received
it unmoved. Advancing to the front of his box,
he bowed thrice, and then stood calmly, with
folded arms, surveying the brilliant scene before
him. He wore the simple costume of the Insti-
tute of' Sciences, his long, chestnut hair fell upon
his shoulders, and his dark blue eyes gave ani-
niation to his sun-browned countenance, over
which thought had cast an interesting shade.
By his .side, a few paces in the rear, however,
stood Josephine, dressed to perfection, and wear-
ing a tiara of diamonds as sparkling as her wit.
She seemed to- give herself up to the illusioti of
the moment, and to enjoy the regal homage paid
to her warrior lord.
The-overture was at length performed, the
curtain was drawn up, and Judith entered,
dressed in-a becoming peasant dress. Loud as

was the applause which had greeted Bonaparte,
it was re-echoed when the audience saw in the
new candidate for their favor such exquisite and
perfect beauty.  The Parisians love female
beauty, and were entranced by Judith's exquis-
itely proportioned figure, the classical loveliness
of her intellectual countenance, the glowing bril-
liancy of her eyes, shaded by their luxuriant
lashes. Every charm embodied by pencil or
chisel seemed united, and as she advanced to the
foot-lights, her eyes fixed upon her protector,
she captivated all hearts.
The success thus commenced, changed into a
regular frenzy of applause when her voice elec-
trified the house with its sparkling tones. Clear
and brilliant as diamonds, her notes charmed the
senses, and were rendered with a spontaneous
emotion seeming to emanate from her very soul.
Suddenly, and some thought it a part of the'
opera, an old man, with a staff in his hand,
rushed upon the stage. His face was meagre
and pale, a grizzled beard hiding the lower part
of it, while the strongly-marked Israelitish fea-
tures denoted his race. No sooner did Judith
see him, than she ceased-singing, and, crossing
her hands upon her breast, she sank upon her
knees. But the intruder, with relentless grasp,
seized her by the shoulder - one of those
moulded shoulders which had been so much
admired.
"Judith," said he, in an angry tone, "why, 0
why do I find thee in this place of abomination i
Is not the cup of thy people full, that thou join-
est in such heathen mummeries., which will ever
exclude you from the eternal Zion ? Arise, and
go -hence 1"            .    .       '
Meekly, and without a word, the poor girl
obeyed her father. The cup she had -so long
and so earnestly desired to taste, was snatched
from her lips, and her soul, which had just begun
to soar in the realms of triumph, sank into the
abyss of despair. The audience were electrified
by this unexpected incident, and loudly stigma.
tized the intruding father.  Then the mana-
ger came forward, and announced with a low
bow, that " a favorite comedy would be substi-
tuted for the unexpected domestic drama." And
the pun not only reconciled the versatile Paris-
ians, but they decided that the new singer was
not much, after al. The mnen thought that she
had a good flgureSut'the gentler portion of the
audience treated her without mercy.
Judith, fetreating to her dressing-room to
:change her costume, was followed by her exas-

TH

52

perated parent.: No sboperwers thbyuglbne,
thanhp begin to upbraid hers - -   ,-%.
"Wo, wo unto me "-he e claimddy"thatmyr
daught&amp;haAforgbtten the courts- of! Salem, and
has deserted the tents .ofZibn. SThe' Lod eon-
demned meto exile, andfat have Iwdndered tb:
find my only- child---my.Tjide-inf -Joy-r--y
Judith. I discover her-but in an abyss of perrf
dition and wo, where Moloch reigns."
"Pity, pity,"' cried Judith,wringing her hatids.
"Pity! What pity hast thoushown-for me ?
For years-have I nursed you, ab a tender floWer,
with simple, anxious care. For years I-watcheo'
its growth, all pure and spotless as were the pa
triarchs' daughters. Then came a storm-it rent
my precious nursing from the parent stalk, and
I did fellow. For many a month I'veopursued
my idol, hoping to find it worthy of my love,
. and of a place in Jacob's heavenly fold. And
now-0 what a changeI Bitter thorns spring
up where my flower was cherished, and my spirit
is bowed into the dust."
"Father I" sobbed Judith, sinking on her
knees at% his feet. "Father, may the God of
Israel listen to me, and curse me if I speak,
falsely. -.Here on my knees do I confess my
fault, and sue for pardon. I have been in cap-
tivity and danger-I have'felt alone, and have
followed strange counsels-but,in no one instance
have I forgottenn the creed of my fathers, or
thought of strange gods. Dependent, I wished,
to gain my livelihood by exercising a fascinating
talent, but no breath can sully the purity of my
reputation, or mar-my fame-"
"The God of Abraham be glorified I" inter-
rupted Mordee'ai.
"Hear me," continued his daughter. "Spot-
less as the snow upon Mount Sinai, I now ask
forgiveness, filing that I have sinned against
Heaven and /in thy sight. 0, 1am a wretched,
a hateful sinner, to afflict thee thus. I, who in
former years believed my daily labor was and
ever would be, to console and cheer thy days of
age and sorrow. 0, canst thou not smile on me
once more?' . Can thy generous mind forget the
words that thou hast just spoken-the scene thou
saw'st this night' Father, I am a suppliant!'
A prodigal!. Let me not plead in vain."
"Jehovah bless thee I" said Mordecai. "And
now, let me leave this place." -
" But Madame Bonaparte ".
 ".Think no more of her. I afn your father.
I have wealth enough to supply our wants, and
you can comfort my declining years."
*          4

horge wsaa kgleeda.4hedgwan4 un
15        . ad Irds  ni    Ahe lash,
sopp        9        a               ta
Bonaparteterede folloye~ i byggphipe,
"Well, sir I" said the gueea,  owbropgM
your daughter's triumph toa,speedy tgrmga-
1teen. Noey@in4. ,No reply1 sI wish, go dip-
cF  o   no rerrmnaiu       ou-areprobal1
her father, and if so, hava#right to do as. you,
The Jew, without uttering Awor4,change#
his position. ,1 an instaut- Bqnaparte saw$hat
he wasra brother of the "-mytic tie," and said:
" Well, well I Youwhave p an doubted rg
to both .your daughter andyo*ypinion.. Then,
a44pessing Judith, he-coutpag~e4;. 'as for yo.
rny nightingale, youmustipo frgeypur-Egy,
rian friends, and Josephine will iy&amp;j be -g1g
to gee you. Good night."
After Bonaparte had gone. the exasperated
manager came, evidently thinking that by offer-
ing large sums of money he could move the ol
man's heart. But all his tempting offers were
refused, and he followed them to the door with
mingled entreaties and denunciations.
Taking a coach, Mordecai and Judith went to
the house of a distant kinsman, where the former
was sojourning. The main apartment was fitted
up in true Hebrew style, a magnificent seven-
branched chandelier, of solid silver, illuminating
the rich damask curtains and velvet covered
furniture. - Here Judith was welcotfied by some
of her own people,. and treated as a returned
prodigal. At last, they retired, and then, in the
solitude of her chamber, she thought over the
events of the evening. The fluctuating waves of
faces at the opera house, the intoxicating homage
of applause, the sudden apparition of her father,
the thrilling scene, the terrific lecture in her
dressing-room-all passed like summer clouds
across her fevered spirit, and a fearful re-aetion
commenced.
The next day, after a disturbed sleep, she be-
gan to realize that all her prospects had faded,
and a dark pall enveloped her musical hopes.
Yet, conscience comforted her with approving
voice. What would success, or applaqss, be to
her, if her father was miserable'I And she offered
up her powers of song, a willing sacrfice, upon
the'altar of filial love,
Madame Bonaparte came to see her every
day, and soothed her with angelic assiduIg.
Her father was so lery kind, and when he had
learned all that Bonaparte had done, he ealed
to express his devoted'thanks%. Of Osmanli, toe,


ggTHi MAMaIUHFL
hheard much that-aedforthhis gratitude.     " Thanks deatJosephine, and Ihavefolloyred
JI~dhh  *i, now  tinemse no  feged   ier you here., I am almost delrious. with joy, and
heat,ofti tioIh f ein leirtid lv    havee   uohtd tell you."
t         asgne.       jBt you have not been toAmerica "
venng) !whleti Mordecai had gone to at-. "No, n6  foundiall I wanted in Englnd;
teda tineetingi Mfhsbrethreni  iofge wherein although I mourn a huband, I have found a son.
tfe tiystie tie"oufid Christira nsfdJew;sol- But where is he? Whve cn I press-him'tomy
dieaud civilian, witithe bonds of lovesa lady heart?"
entered the sitting-room. At first she seemed  "Who ?"'
somewhat erbarassed, and ased':            "My son--Osmanlidi'
i s not Madame Bonaparthere"             "Is he your son
.  h-iis not, replied Juditfit rising and offer.  "Yes, dearest Josephine. Myheart whispered
in"-Sgoat., "Btt lepeco-Ut, andI have the falleat proofs. But where s
'Not me," interruptedJosephiIe, 'for here I heV.
ii -i&amp;-*hy-.is i'can itbe 4  Myldear Ma-
daite Wilmiot, welcome back't ' And the $wo
fMinds embraced.

ON the morning of Madame Wilmot's return,
Osmanli awoke, again'to find himself incarcer-
ated in his sepulchral dungeon. He had dreamed
-dreamed of the happy hours passed at Cairo,
and Judith, pure as an angel of light, had prom-
ised him that she would see his mother. But
now, as even the recollection of his vision faded
awaybefore the sunlight of reality, the image of
her whom he loved gave place to that of Ma-
dame de Valmont. Her artful wiles-her syren-
like smile, and her fiendish look when Josephine
surprised them at the masked ball-all were em-'
bodied in his imagination into a demon, that
haunted him perpetually, and embittered his few
pleasant thoughts.
The cathedral clock toned eight, and for a
moment interrupted his agony of thought. Then
the awful silence was broken by approaching
footsteps, and soon the door creaked on its rusty
hinges. A .key grated in the lock, and then a
man entered. He was dressed as #*ater-carrier,
although his well patched suit of cotton velvet
had not' the cleanly look peculiar to that class.
His long hait fell id uncombed masses over an
unshaven face, and his eyes gleamed with rage.
"Your servant, Captain Osmanl, he ex-_
claimed, in mocking tones. "You may not rqc-
olleet this form, wasted by bearing a proscribed
life, like that of a wild beast, nor may this mis-

erable garb resemble my onee brilliant uniform.
But," and the speaker's voice trembled with all
the. vehemence of ungoverned passion, "you
cannot forget that you have a long account to
settle with me-me, the maan whose love you
crossed-whose prospects you ruined, apd *hef'
you have even thwarted in this den of conspira.
tion ! In short, you may, nay must remember
Colonel Margry of Egypt-the Alphonse' Mar-
gry who has a right to control Madame de Yal-
mont's heart-the fugitive from justice wlio has
found your lair, and demands satisfaction for all
the wrongs you have done him."
Osmanli, for the first time i his life, trexbled,
A horrid mist seemed to rise around him, from
which glowed the furidus' and angering face of'
his unmercifhl enemy. '-lnrecovered fro&amp; the
effects of his rash attempt at suicide,'he kxew
that he could have but little chance in a struggle
with one who, a single glance sufficed to show,
was endowed with full vigor, and whose'features
bore the fearful impress -of deadly wrath. He
pressed his hands to his eyes, to shut' ont the'
hateful vision, and to bring back his scattere'
senses.
"Come, come" said Ma-giy, with a bier
pneer,'while his brow grew darker, a"dthe -bd
hue of tagefadet*before thelidness of a44
deadlier passion. "Don'thideyour pretty eyeS,

CHAPTER XVI
THE MYS1C BnE'rHREtN.


THE MAMELUKE.

5tnt xL .i

ani play the woman. Here are two swords-
take one, and we can soon settle our difieglties."
The gallant Mameluke gasped for breath; his
heart beat-thick and fast, and he endeavored to
rise, but was forced to grasp the post of his bed
for support.    I
"Trembling coward !" exclaimed Margry, in
a contemptuous tone. "Would that the fair
Jewish friend of General Bonaparte were here.
tb witness the pusillanimous bearing of her che.
valier."I
This taunt inspired Osmanli with his wonted
daring; the veins in his forehead swelled, and
casting a look at, Margry which was so deadly
defiant that it seemed to scorch even his heated
soul, he shouted:
"Maniac!I traitor! Give me a sword, and
defend your craven person."f
Margry, immediately drew two swords from
a rolled up cloak which he had brought, and
offered one to Osmanli, who -clutched it franti-
cally. An instant more, and they were engaged
in deadly combat. OsmanU was an adept with
the weapon, and ere the swords were fairly
crossed, he felt that he was in no danger from
the mad thrusts of his infuriated enemy. But
he jdged it best to act wholly upon, the defen-
sive, and steadily endeavored to disarm his op-
ponent. The moment came, but no sooner did
Mrgry feel his sword forced from his grasp,
tbau with a howl of rage, like that of an infuri-
ated tiger, he drew a pistol. But, at that mo-
ment, a powerful handseized his arm, the muz-
zle of the weapon was averted from Osnyanli,
and the ball went through a door opposite to the
usual entrance.
An unearthly scream echoed the report, and
Margry, with a horror-struck look, rushed out of
the room. Osmanli, whose unnatural strength
deserted him the moment, it was no longer re-
quired, sank upon his bed again, and saw with
delight his guardian, the Count de Vergennes.
"owis this ?" exclaimed the count. "Did
this scoundrel presume to attack you in your
defenceless couditioni"
" He did:' replied Osmanli, "and for the drst
time in my life, I knew what it was to fear; but
go    did not, desert me, and I-heavens!
W ice is tht*"  ..
The coint also head the noise which had, at-,
tratpd Osmanli's attention. It was a stiged
co          froi   hind thedoor which. the
piqtbah      A pverso4, It was )oeked within,
butth comatwreeed gt open, asd, to the eur-

prise of both, Madame de Valmont staggered
into the room, and sank upon the floor. She
was dressed in white, and a crimson tide of blood,
flowing from a wound in her side gave her a
fearful look.
" Mercy, mercy !" she exclaimed, in a tremu-
lous voice. "Curse me-hate me,'but 0, for-
give me I"
The count, aided by Osmanli, placed the un-
fortunate woman on ,the bed, and the former,
summoning an attendant, despatched him up to
the hospital abqve them, for a surgeon and a
sister of charity. When the good nun arrived,
he requested Osmanli to accompany him into
another room.
" Listen," said he. "I rescued you from
death as a fellow-mortal. I have cherished you
as a brother, to whom the 'mystic tie' binds
my heart. And I had hopes that I could enlist
you into our cause-a cause which involves the
welfare of our nation, nay, of all Christendom.
But I learn to-day from one of my spies who is
connected with the police department, that active
inquiries are being made for you by-"
"By whom ?" interrupted Osmanli..
"Your mother !"
"Thank God-thank God!" exclaimed the-
young man, in s toneof Iuch reverential grati-
tude that for a moment the count did not inter-
rupt the prayer that evidently ascended from his
heart. He then went on.
"Yes, Osmanli, your mother is now seeking
you, an before-her visit to the metropolis, anx-
ious inquiries were-made by General-Bonaparte,
and by a wealthy Sm yrniote Jew, one Mordecai
Pezeuzac."
"Thefather of Judith," murmured Osmanli,
and then the blush of shame mantled his brow.
" Count!" said Madame de Valmont, "listen.
to me. I feel the damp dews of death on my
brow, and wish to make some. reparation to one
victim of my wicked heart. , Will you promise
me that, ere the sun goes down to-night, youwill
have Madame Bonaparte assured that I, insti-
gated by a spirit of jealous revenge, seduced this
young- man from the paths of duty. Promise
me?"
"I promise, madame," said the count. Then
turning to Osmalll, "Now, captain,. you must
retire. -To-night I will take you from this char-
nel-house,eng place you among brethren."
Then, pointing to, the door, ihe escorted Os-
ianli into the large hall just as the surgeon and
sister of chariy approached the chalinerwhere

56

reposed the suffering, peniteht and sad Madame
d6 Valinonti
That same evening, when darkness had cast
ier welcome veil on, all above ground, the count
came for his pi-otege." "Madame(de Valmont, he
informed him, was recovering from the effects of
her wound, but he could find no traces of Mar.
gry, wh was'probably in possession, of know-
lodge of some other entrance to the catacombs.
Osmanli, meanwhile, had put on a new uniform,
brought by the attendant,. aid, when he was
ready, the count escorted him to the subterranean
opening leading to the river,, where a boat was
in waiting. Two sturdy oarsmen sent them rap-
idly, yet noiselessly along the river, the count,
who sat at the helm, keeping the boat under the
deep shadow of the huge stone quays. Passing
the long gallery of the Louvre, the boat was'
brought alongside the landing in front of the
palace of the Tuileries. Here the count, fol-
lowed by Osmanli, stepped on shore, and soon
traversed the Palais Royal, then the focus of
Parisian dissipation. In one of the narrow
streets beyond the Palais, the count stopped at
the door of rather a mean looking house, and
knocked thrice. , They were immediately ad-
mitted, and the count led the way up stairs, into
a large, plainly furnished room. At one ex-
tremity of this room was a large double door,
studded with iron knobs, before which stood a
,man armed with a drawn sword.
I seek admittance from my brethren within,
S formyself and my.companion,"-said the count.
They who seek aright ever find," was the
laconic reply of the sentinel. I
The count knocked, and a voice from within
asked;
"Who waits without ?"
,I, Henri de Vergennes," replied the .count,
a worthy and well qualified brother, conduct-
ing one whose rights are equal to mine own."
"Who is this strange brother 1"
"Captain Osmanli, of the Egyptian wind,
that bloweth freely, yet sendeth good towards
the East."
Do you, Henride Vergennes, vouch for his
worthiness I"
"With all my heart; he is true, faithful, and
discreet."
"Will he prove brave, silent, affectionate 1" 
" Yes-to every engagement.",
Then a deeper toned voice was heard, saying:
"Strife, and cruelty, and discord reign upon

the earth, fet there is refuge for the oppressed.
The promised blessing'exists, and here 'thdre is
peace and joy for the brotbrhoqd-o mystid tie
unitig'us all in bonds of love. .From all parts
of the globe thewinds blow, but they all convey
good towards the East, and all recognize one
Grald Architect, who' alone- can re-construct
man's ruined heart. Then let the Egyptian
brother enter. He comes from ,the fountain-
liead of the Mystic rites-may hefind the stream
here unpolluted. Let him enjoy those teremo-
nies which are to-day as tliey will be to-morrow
-which will be to-morrow as they were yester-
day-which were yesterday as they always have
been and ever will be."
And scores of voices responded: "So mote it
be."  The doors were thrown open. The senti-
nel, stepping to one .side, presented arms, and
the count, taking Osmanli by the hand, entered
the hall.
What transpired within those mystic portals,
we cannot disclose. The veil is never lifted save
to the initiated.
Two hours passed. The doors were thrown
open, and the brethren came out, chatting cor-
dially together. Nor were any two apparently
more interested in each other's society, than
Mordecai Fezenzac and Captain Osmanli. The
old Jew had been ovejoyed to meet with the
preserver of his daughter's life, and he cheered
Osmanli's heart with the information that Ma-
dame Bonaparte had received the exculpating
message sent by Madame de Valmont.
"So come," said he, "and join us at the sup-
per-table. I will warrant you a welcome from
Judith, and you may find some one else who will
be glad to. see you.'!..
" Go, my friend," joined in the Count de Ver-
gennes. "You had at any rate better not ap-
pear in public until your name is taken from the
official list of dead or- deserted, where it must
have figured since your bath. I have asked a
brother here, who is a clerk in the war depart-
ment, to see that you are enregistered among the
sick to-'morrow; but to-night, keep quiet. And
now good-by.
"Adieu, preserver and friend," replied Os-
manli. "But can I not see you again ?"
" Conspirators must be secret, in their move-
ments. 0! 'tis a sad thingtopbe thus in arms
against our own country, but the right divine, to
rule must be sustained. At any rate, when you
wish to see me, come to No. 17 ruelle de Notre
Dame, and show this ring to the bar-maid." As


0

68

he spoke, he drew a rieh, jewelled ring-from his
-4hger, and handed it to Osmanli. They then
ppartd, he-to retn t6 his work, ivhist Osa
aA 4*dhome with the f4ter of Judith.
.tss alo.Vely niglt, though somewhat,eool,
and Pezenzac cgnsented,. after urgent8olicita-
$onsto year the large =iliry cloak of his com-
amohn.     e streets were crowded with the
HgYt-hearte4 Parisians, making it often diflcult
agthe             sidewalk.  t one
tQ ~O~enarrow.Atn
corner, where there was a denscr.owd, OsaManli
passd before the Jew, to clear the wgy for him,
ut sprcely had he done so, when heheard a
gurglig cry. Fezenzaq grasped him around the
body, and Osmanli, so soon as he could disen-
gag    slf sufficientlyto turn around, saw to
-

his horror that the old' man had been stabbed.
The hilt of a kiife prottaded from his breast,
and the blood spouted forth in torrents..
"Seize the assassin I" "murder I" "murder I"
was cried all exound. . And in an instant Os-
manifound himself ajprisoner, upbr4i4ed by the
assembled multitude as a murdere. In vain
did he.assert his innocence. le was carried be-
fore a justice of peace, where at least a score 9f
eager Witneses testified that he had stabbed the
olaman. One added to his guilt byswearing
that.he was a deserter. It was apparently ,a
clear case, and again the unfortunate young man
found himself the inmate of a prison, under sus-
picion, too, of having basely murdered the father
of his early love.

7 r

CHAPTER XYII.
ran DeDRANHRRaa.

MX#Nw)HA,,- Madame Wilmot narrated the
principal events of her journey to Judith and,
Josephine. "Arriving in London," she said,
"Ifound ample documents, informing me that
my lamented husband had espoused the royal
cause in th64American revolutionary-struggle,
an4 had been shot at the siege of Charleston.
But, among the papers found on his person, that
which most interested 'ine was a letter from my.
father, stating that I was th mother of a son,
and that he should send the infant, with a nurse,
t6 America. Thenthere was another letter, da,
ted atHavre, and stating: that the nurse and
child had sailed, a fe* days previous, on board
the 'Champlain,' Captain Howe.
"Howe, I thought,-wad an English name, and
my lawyer suggested advertising for him. This
was done, and in a.few 4ayA I had the satisfac-
tion of seeing the old tar,at Greenwich Hospital.
He distinctly remembered the babe, .for 'they
were taken prisoners iki the Bay of Biscay by an
Algerine cruiser, adid sold into slavery. For.
some years they *erethe property of one master,
but at his death the lad was s6ld b1 an agent
who was recruiting for the Mamelukes--" ,
"The Mamelukes VI" interrupted Josephine;
" carn it be possible tht-"
"It is possible. Why-go into tedious details;
but I will say at once, Osianl is Iy son. And

0, howI long toehsp him 'to my heart. But
Judith, you look sad. No Ill has 4pbened Eb
my noble boy', Iope ?"
Jusbstheb heavy footstep  wde heard ons*
staire without, and in ia *wurnments the dor
was opened, And.. party df the police entered,
bearing the wounded Feneano on a litter. Me
eyes were closed, is fase worethe ashy'palenpe
of death, and his garments were stained 'wit
gore. Judith, springing td her feet, ghaed with
speechless horror, and Xadame Wilmot cbuld
onlywak
"Wikat means this!"
"Why, madame," eplled the sergeant, "this
old gendenan was a Walking along the street,
just down here, with &amp; deseter, and the rascal
stabbed him- One of nty men was on haid;anA
seodred  e g*4derer, and ab we fodnd-sbmfe
letters if the old gentleaa's ,pedket bearing his
address, wejust-brought hi home. I havsnt
fora doetot, And the soodst yo can gethimn:
bed the better."
Madame IKonparte immedinalydikected them
how totawange the poorsufeirer, whilst Madame
Wilmtt sdothed Judit. Son did the aidmw
bArb her wrdtdhedness, and, When thi" s rgs
haedproeuneed   id hopeless i*fdict, she ts
and satiby herfather'sbe8slde  a mnate Agdy
of tetlfts grief. - Josephine fet. obliged to re-

TAUAH


80                    THE MAMELUKE.

tra, but Madame Wilmot, with several Israelit-
ish friends watched around the dying bed. Time
sped slowly along, to the monotonous tickings
of a large clock, and all sat absorbed in thought,
in utomentary expectation that the pulse of life
would cease its beat.        '
To'wards morning, he restlessly turned his
head several times, and then murmured "Os-
nianli I" All started to their feet, and Madame
Wilmot's heart beat fast with conflicting emo-
tions.
"Save me," he continued, at brief intervals;
" save me, as you saved Judith ! Brother Os-
mnUli, keep off the assassinI Ali! that knife-
pull it forth, Osmanli. Judith is in waiting for
us  Judith."-
"Here I am, father," said she, in as composed
a voice as possible, and took him by-the hand.
When Mordecai felt the pressure of his daugh-
ter's hand, his eye brightened, and he, paje a#
faint effort to rise. But the vital curr'ehtnioved
to* sluggishly to second his wishes, and Judith
inew by the icy coldness of the hand which
grasped hers, that the fountain was alhnOstdty,
Life remained, but a dark cloud gradually envel-
old his -soul;.#ait Autteied like anititim fleaf
dry-a-.kjllIng sfrdit. ,Occdsionally she; *onld-
open his glassy eyes, and-ak6 4fectiisately,
upb-ath6-child cof hislveja  if:gratefulfforber
dadtion; but ,hirnutteancei faledI him., DaDy
imed,iandjasA theisun shoie-in 'at th-eur.
taihed wiridowpiheheaved a ideep asigli' and
then *'ith , absihtsnvtlsive di'ddei- , gave ;up
tIhaghbst :n                    2 e
Jgudith~hgeptherself across therlifolessaforni of,
biha belowed 7 arent- and  mbraced himiagain
and again, until Madame Wilmot gently with-
drew her from the spot. 'The Israelitesprssit
theit -arranged, the: body in their ownpeciliar
amnnr,-bindingia mystic band around'the tearkk
pIeaandla'cing udea' the'hdadasmalUfpaselage
okeafthzl rom- Jerusalem.  hey the~d 4hpiedW
aLuthelpitchers in the. rpom'less thd~adgolof
dtrgefioniahoild, have cleansed hisswbrdin ore
owthem-afda tearing theirgasrents;they prayed
thath4k'. deceased ipight pas  quietlyinfo -the'
spiritual valley of Jehoshaphat.
IT6  ayr thatJiodhhmwas agonizedmiseiable,
wore faintt ipreusidotfthedismaywhich-took
pONdession liibr souL' ta, A*hen, the chain
wkIeh~ubind'ihis* onsarerudely snaped-
adgnder, Can gfdNwiheepth pridepand stapidn
sethed yet atldtighted'a mdusmentdf stern:
depair. Iii'owbeh  ian?6has th'. tendtils of

her heart broken, the sundered fibres bleed, and
the torn affections are scattered wide. Poor
Judith ! What was earth to her, now that her
revered father was no longer living to counsel
and guide her through its paths, even though
they were. flowery and joyous.
But she had but'a short time for melancholy
contemplation, or for profiting by the cordial
sympathy of Madame Wilmot. Justice, stern
and implacable, demanded Her attendance at the
inquest held on her father's remains, and, with
a deep shudder at the idea of seeing the mur-
derer, she repaired to the chamber of death.
The justice of peace was there; and, his face
buried in his hands, there sat the supposed crimi-
nal, surrounded- by soldiers. Unfortunate Os-
manli, his cup of misery was now filled to over-
flowing, and all that night had he pictured, in
horrible colors, the scene he was now an actor
ip. Byt,he was not, with all his soul-nerving
PrP9titon,!expecting to see Madame Wilhot.
Nor had that lady but glanced at him, ere she
left Judith, pushed herself through the soldiers,
wandthioing her arms around Osmanli's neck,
with a convulsive shriek, 'exclainied:
"ly son! my son?   Thank Heaven, I have
fbundybu!V"
IFor -this recognitibnpso long desiredind yet
under such circumstancesfbrought. to, fass, the
young man-wasnp piepared-.buti every:emotion'
of his: heart chilled, whon: he heard the well.
knownLvoice of Judith, sjeiaking in low'ind ter-'
riilddtones:
:Osmanli! 0; Osumanli I Can it bethat you
-sthe son of my frie'ndithepossessor of ny.htrt
-cam itbdr that y6wimnirdbredimy.pooi "old fa-
ther 'i  Oho: no! deteannot, miist notb  6."
rAndwith ani unedtdly4burst of uncontrollable
rei she, sank -into a: hair, insensible. 'The
ustice humanelydisposed with hor further at
{ dudanee,and he as'carriod 'back to her chhei-
be      . VMad ue'Wilidt stood by herunfortuiate
bomerarras'lasflednround his neck, and-her
bclding tears- betokehing the agitation 6fher
troubledleart.
"Young mn," said the justice, "can yo
not'explain' -the fearfil- evidence against you I'
Zf so, now is tbetime to speak."
Geutly retn'ing his another's'encircling arms,
Osmanli roseandhiaeys washed with indignant,
energy.
" What have I to explain"?" he asked, with
nreloiidene that eah only1come from the heart.
im a soldie- a  &amp;rnh soldier. 'I have

OSMANLI, THE MAMELUKE


/5-

T~MAMELUE

63

faced death, and your Egyptian commander will
vouchfor my valor. Circumstances have for a
time kept me from tlie world-they have until
the past momeut.Ikept me from a inothe-'s love.
But Can you imagine, sir, that .lst night, when,
[first saw yon victim, when I hailed him with
Joy, when my heart rejoiced at the idea of aging
meeting his daughter? 0, think you that at
such a moment I would dip my hands in his
blood, and stab him life a ruffian? If you do
,think so,.sir,.you know me not."
"Your appeal is eloquent," said the justice,'
"and if assertions could overbalance facts;,
might acquit you. But the testimony implica-
ted you so directly, that I must'order your im-
prisonment, to answer a charge of wilful murder."
No sooner did Madame Wilmot hear the ap-
palling decision, than she burst into a flood of
tears, and her loaded heart was thus relieved
from a load of sorrow too mighty to be borne.
Osmanli shuddered,'but drawing himself up, he
replied, in a clear tone:
"I submit. I bow before my fate. And
should I be condemned to death, I shall walk
fearlessly towards the guillotine, as a step to-
wards a tribunal where all testimony ts known,
and where no secrets are hidden." Then cast-
ing a look of mingled agony and pity at Madame
Wilmot, he continued k "As for you) my long
sought mother, you find me as undefiled by this
foul crime as I was when you first heard my in-
fant voice. Pray for me, see me if you can, and,
o do not let Julith curse me as her father's
murderer. You, my heart tells me, do not ac-
cuse me."       '
"9Accuse you-P" exclaimed Madame Wilmot,
in A tone of piercing anguish. "Can I think
that the Almighty would restore my son, after a
life-separation, with his hands red with the blood
of him whose daughter he loved'? Never ! No,
my noble-hearted boy, I will not desert jou-,
My soul within me tells me that you are inno-
'Cent, and that your name will never be branded
with ignominy. One kiss, and then go to meet
your fate like a man. You will see me often."
And it was there, trroundedby armed guards,
with the awful corpse before them in accusing.
terror, that the mother embraced her son for the
first time. Joy surcharged their hearts, and rap-
turous love, unrestrained by fear of, the future,
possessed their every faculty.
They parted. Madame Wilmot, after a few.
hurried words of comfort to the agonized Judith,
hastened to see General Bonaparte, and Osmanli,

I

heavily ironed, was conveyed to the old prison
uear TotreDanie. is heart sank within him as
he was .onyeyed along the gloomy corridor, and
the door of his, cell creaked on its hinges, but, as
he entered, the sergeant of his guard pressed his
hand. 'It was the grasp of a brother, and his,
sad thoughts were cheered by one word, spoken
in a low tone 9f voice. That consoling, hope-
inspiring word, accompanied by a mystic grasp,
was:
"tCourage I"
And thi-oughout the long day, when the un-
happy prisoner thought over the varied events
of the preceding twenty-four hours, there came
shining through the ,gloom-"courage."   It
nerved his sad heart, and inspired him with hope.
The faint light Which had penetrated through
the thickly barred window at last grew dim, and
as night came on, an awful stillness reigned in
the prison, only interrupted by the deep tones of
the neighboring cathedral bells,- as, they pealed
forth the successive hours. At last, from sheer
exhaustion, he fell asleep, and was awakened by
the light of a lantern, held before his eyes.
- " Hush I" whispered a strange voice, and sit.
ting up upon his straw couch, Osmanli saw the
sergeant who had inspired him with hope.
"You don't remember me, comrade'?" whis-
pered the soldier. "Never mind, but I remem-
ber yqu. Saperlotte, as I told the boys, to have
a comrade who had saved Napoleon's life ar-
rested by the black-coats, and locked up like a
pickpocket. In short, brother -Osmanli, the
guard to-night are all from the grenadier corps
which once surprised you near, Grand Cairo,
After you had broken the 'little corporal's' sword.
Besides, we are most of us bound to you by a
'mystic tie '-so up, fellow, and march."
Osmanli's thanks impulsively burst from his
eyes in tears, but the soldier motioned to him to
be silent, and to follow. They stepped out into
the corridor, and the sergeant, after re-locking
the doo, cautiously led the way, Osmanli fol-
lowing.. In a few moments they reached the '
guard-room, where a dozen stalwort fellows wel-
comed their old Egyptian friend, and in a few
moments he was completely uniformed, his long
hair was reduced'to the regimental cut, and his
whole appearance was so changed that none but
the most practised eyes could have recognized .
him.                             I
"Bravo I" said the sergeant, when the cos-
tume was pronounced perfect:   "Flints and
scabbards!I but you are a grenadier of the first

I

I

'9


64                                 J~
water.NOW lay down aia mattress andimdke
antil dayligtWhen the guard will be relieved;
and yos can' march with us to tie'barracks.
Then, my brother, yg can go where yo please.
Npt a word of thanks now, andpleasant deams
to-yqu."
SNever was there an escape better planned-
never ,ras one more successfully carried out.
And when, at an early hour the' next morning,
Madame Wilmot visited the prison, accompa-
nied by an officer in command of a guard, the,
prisoner they sought was not to be fid. Bona-
parte had signed an order, claiming him as be-
longing to the army, and only subject to a court
partial and Madame Wilmot was to share his,

piiminyy 'confinenent, But, to hef astpoish-
nent, the.:keeger of the yrIson dcl l atf Os-
manli tmus hatve escaped.'"The tuinkey, wlie
closely questioned d tte tktthey haddruk
with the gnard to the health of tnerafBIna-
varte, and aftediards ha&amp; per aps'iept on thefr
posts. But the inspectors of the eightt '-veie
positive that they had made their accustomed
rounds, aid that all wa..quIet, except tii  tread
of the numerous sentinels. I was a mysterious,
unaccountable affair, and puzzled the officials not
7a little. As for Madame Wiinot, while she
rejoiced that her son was thus probably delivered
from ignominy, she OfFered up a silent prayer to
Raven that he might be restoi-ed to her arms.

CHAPTER XVIIL*
PROCLAMATION OP THE REPUBLIC.

TnE morning was cold and dreary, yet at an
early hour all the general, officers in Pais were
on horseback, on their way to the residence of
Gfneral Bonaparte. Cavalcade after cavalcade.
arrived, and were admitted into the court-yard,
exciting the curiosity of a large body of specta-
tors, who-could not divine what .was about to
take place, No review had been announced, no
festie preparations had been madeand yet every
military man of note made his appearance, and
followed his comrades into the court-yard. Mu-
rat, with his long curls and gorgeous uniform-
La Salle, with his honor-scarred cheek-Moreau,
pale and thoughtft4-Andreossy, powerful as the
brigade of dragoons whose uniforin he wore-
Jourdan; the lion-hearted--Lefevre, the invinci-
ble-all, in short, were there. All were in- full
uniform, attended by their brilliant groups. of
staff-officers, and as each cavalcade passed
through the assembled populace,,its leader was
cotmplimiented by allusions to his well known
victories... Last of al, camea tall, fine looking
man, in citizen's dress. It was Bernadotte, and
hisAompressed lip betokened his disappointment,
for hehad a presentiment that Bonaparte was
about to do what ho had long wished ,others to
do for himself. Power was to be concentrated,
anda strong arm, wielding a good sword, was.
to  d   rane.

An hour passed, And the crowd without had
swelled to thousands, when the sound of trum.
pets checked the curious in their speculations,
Three regiments of cavalry, the flower of the
Paris . garrison, made their way through the
masses, atid drew up in an adjacent boulevard.
What their officers had been'ordered to do, the
troopers knew not, but each man who was ques-
tioned whispered that he had rations in his va-
lise, and his holsters full of ball-cartridges for
his carbine.
Something was evidently on foot.
A horseman came up at full gallop, and called
upon the people to make way for a state mes-
senger.
"Where are you from ?" inquired a score of
voices.
"From the council now in session at the Tuil-
eries," was the reply, "and I have a decree for
General Bonaparte. -Let me pass." And as
the massive gates closed after hinm, the wonder
increased.
Soon a shout was beard within: "Long live
the Republic. ILong live Bonaparte ", The
multitude without took up 'the cry-the cavalry
echoed It back, and soon all that section of the
mighty netropoliorresounded with: "long live
Bonaparte"
The gates swang wide upon their hinges, nd

I -

4

I    i


r

66

THE MAMELUKE.

Bonaparte rode forth, mounted upon a noble
gray charger. He wore the uniform of his grade,
his long hair partially concealed his pale cheeks,
and his eye flashed with daring. Behind him-
were his generals, war-worn and bearing marks*
of many a fiery baptism upon their bronzed
countenances.. Before him, as he emerged into
the streets, was the Paris populace-that terrible
multitude, whose hands still reeked with the
blood of their murdered sovereigns. Checking
his horse, he,-raised his hat and cried, in a com-
manding tone of voice:
"Long live the Republic !"
But the people and the military suite respond-
ed with an enthusiastic shout:            ~
" Long live Bonaparte I"
The general's face flushed with pride, and he
gave the order "Forward to the ,Tuileries."
From that moment until his star paled before
British gold, Napoleon Bonaparte ruled France.
Let us now return to Osmapli, who marched
away from prison with his deliverers. But ere
the guard could reach the barracks, they metthe
regiment, and were ordered to fall into the ranks.
This was an awkward dilemma, especially as
none of the soldiers knew where they were march.
ing, but there was no alternative. Osmaiili fell
in, with his friends, and they all: were relieved
when they found that they were marching out of
the city. On, on,- they followed the inspiring'
martial music, nor was the word ."halt " given.,
until the column had entered the 'shades of the
park of St. Cloud. That,night, Osmanli biv-
ouacked with the regiment, and such was the
confusion that no officer remarked anew face in
the ranks'.
Early the next morning, the members of the
legislative bodies began to arrive at St. Cloud,
to where they had been adjourned. Guards were
posted throughout the park and the-palace, and
Osmanlifound himself stationed in the orangery,
where the Council of Five Hundred soon began
to assemble. The metabers were in a high state
of excitement, as the Parisians had shown no
discontent at Bonaparte's assumption of power,
and the session commenced amid excitement of
the wildest description. General - Bonaparte's
brother Lucien was president, but he had few
partisans, and there was soon a storm of abuse
and vehement denunciation, mingled with cries
of " Down with the dictatorI Death to the new
CromwellI Let us die rather than submit 0'
At this critical junctuie, Bonaparte entered
the hall, and approached the president's chair.

The tempest now became a hurricane, and just
as he reached the centre of the hall, ahundre4
voices shouted " Death to the tyrant." - Leaving
their seats, they rushed towards him, and one, a
Corsican, aimed a dagger At his throat. Luckily
for Bonaparte,^the greniadierson duty no sooner
saw how he was menaced, than they hastened to
the room, and Thome, casting his arm before the
assassin, received the glittering steel. Another
deputy had drawn a weapon, but Osmanli seized
him, and arrested his blow.
For the first and only time, Bonaparte's iron
nerves were shaken. He could brave the horrors
of warfare, but not this civic ruffianism, and with
a hurried word of thanks to his preservers, he
staggered rather than walked into the open air,
There, mounting his horse, he ordered the drums
to beat "to the colors," and as the troops sur-
rounded him, in a hollow square, their serried
ranks restored his wonted vigor.
"Comrades !" said he, and his voice rang
like a clarion, "I was about to point onit to yon-_
der mob the means of saving the republic, and
of restoring our honor. They answered me with
drawn daggers. What more could England
have desired ' Comrades, I have led you to
fame-to glory-to honor! Can I - now- rely
upon you'?"  '
"Yes ! yes !  We swear to uphold youI!"
shouted every man, and putting their tall bear.
skin caps on their bayonets, they waved them in
manifestation-of their joyful allegiance. Soon,
the beat of the drums restored order. Com-
mands were issued. Companies marched n,
different directions, and one took possession of
the Council Hall, driving the refractory members
out of the windows, which were near the ground.-
The bristling line of bayonets was an unanswer-
able argument, and the valiant orators retreated
with such undignified precipitation that they left
their hats and scarfs, as they crowded through
the narrow outlet. Leaping to the earth, they-
ran away like frightened sheep through the park,
and the dynasty of the military ruler'was estab-
lished.-
Josephine, who had urged Bonaparte.to take
this 'important step, awaited his return with
heartfelt anxiety. Sometimes her fondest hopes"
seemed about to be realized, and she -imagined
that the prediction of the Creole fortune-teller
Is about 'to 'befulfiled. Then, gloomy fear
would fill her with apprehension, lest the bold
game should be lost, in which case .a scaffold,
would be her husband's portion--dishonor her

THE MAMELUK.

67

lot. Atlast thersound of trumpets attracted her
tohe'window, and lBonaparte,.rith a numerous
suIte,.gallopedrinto the court-yard.. Dismount-
ing, he saluted his escort, gnd was hailed with,
loud shouts of " Long. live the consulI' Jose-
phine knewithat he was successful, and she hast-
ened to the door'to greet her warrior husband
in a delirium of proud joy.
That night, MXdame Wilmot called, and was
permitted 'to see Josephine, who listened yith-
sympathy to her sad recital. Judith had fol-
lowed her father's remains to their final resting-
place, and her first wretchedness had become
chastened by that self-controlling philosophy
which is one of thefblessings of grief.' But of Os-
manli the poor woman could bring no tidings,
though she confidently asserted his innocence.
While they were conversing, Bonaparte entered
the room. He at first pnanifested some displea-
sure at finding a stranger with Josephine, but
when he saw who it-was, his countenance bright-
ened up.
"I have it 1" he exclaimed. "I thought I
knew him, although those rascally cut-throats
rather disconcerted me."
"iWho V" eagerly asked Madame Wilmot.
"COsmanli ?"
"The same, my good woman, if I am not
much mistaken-"
"And he was doing no harm ?" she inter-
rupted.
",Harm ! Why he was saving my life; a fa-
vorite movement of his, with which I find no
fault."
Thank Gdd!- Thank God 1" ejaculated Ma-
dame Wilmot., "But where can I find my son!"
"You shall see him to-morrow morning, my
friend, although I cannot imagine' how he be-
came transferred from a bolted cell into the
ranks of my grenadier regiment. But they are
strange Afellows, those grenadiers, and seldom.
wrong. Wait until to-morrow, and you will see
them."
And Madame Wilmot ~returned to Judith,
who was equally delighted to hear the intelli-
gence. Still, although she could not believe
that Okmanli was her. father's murderer, she
could but shudder at the thought that such a
fearful aeensation hung over him. A heavy
cloud eclipsed all the, pleasant emotions of her,
heart; and she feared that the affection she enter-
tained for Osmanli could never blossom again.
Midight was marked by the cathedral bell,
and as the other city clocks pealed forth an ir-

I '

regular response, a tall man, wrapped inacloak,
rang at' the house where Judith reside.' 1e
aske4 the half-awakened porter for Madame'
Wilmot, but ere he could persuade the stupid'
servant to ask that lady to. receive his visit) she-
came down stairs. Sleep had. not visited her
eyes, and as the knock reverberated through-the
house, she fancied that it- might be Osmanli.'
Again she was doomed to disappointment, for
she knew not the-stranger.
1"Madame," said he,."I am a gentleman, and
a friend to the young man who is said to be your
son. If you will Accompany me, I can convince
you of his innocence of the murder of Mordecai
Fezenzac."
"I know you not," she replied, "but your
manner is that of an honorable man, who will
not add to the misfortunes of a lacerated heart.
Permit me to attire myself, and I will cheerfully
accompany you."
Hastening up stairs, she soon descended, and
the stranger handed her into a coach. A rapid
half-hour's drive, in perfect silence, and they
stopped' near the cathedral of Notre Dame.
Alighting, Madame Wilmot was escorted, with
the precautioniswe have already described, down
into the catacombs. And there, stretchedupon
a bed of agony, lay the once brilliant Colonel
Margry. He had endeavored, the previous morn-
ing, to. corrupt some of the soldiers formerly-un-
der his command. But they refused to listen to
his seductive promises, and when he unluckily
denounced General Bonaparte, they nearly beat
him to death. Nothing but the exertions of an
officer saved his life, and as it was, his proud'
heart was broken by the indignity. Managing
with difficulty to reach the catacombs, he threw
himself at the feet of the Count de Vergennes,
praying a shelter while life lasted. Although
detesting him,. the count's noble nature could
not refuse this request, and he sent for a physi-
cian. But it was too late, and the doctor, with
an ominous shake of the head, said that a con-
fessor would be more serviceable.
So numerous were those connected with the
royalist plot, that it was an easy matter for the
count to summons a reverend brother-and the
priest who came, curiously enough, was a mem-
ber, of the lodge where Osmanli and Fezenzac
had met, on the night when the last mentioned
was slain. What then was his delight, when;
after confessing a black catalogue of crimes, the
dying man exculpated Osmanli by avowing him-
self the murderer of Judith's father. He had


THE MAMELUKE.

iptoeded. to stab the youngMameluke, but tbe
"afort"uate 1ow, in borrowing .OsInanli's cloak,
a4e4 his doom. By refusing absolution, the.
pxiesteomapelled his penitent to.ackno*ledge is'
guilt,and.adame Wilmot arivedintime-to
hear the ery justice who had sintencedher son;.
zeceive-the'deposition which triumphantly pro-
qiimed his innbence.
T4e uext day, as the grenadier regiment ref
entered its barracks at Paris, a staffofficer 4 ap-
jiroached the colonel with, a' sumnions. for Sor-

geant Thome and Private Osmanli to Appehr'
before the consul, whose-life they -hadproteded
at St. Clodd. Thiisorder, '-so gratifing tothe
sergeantwas :the' climar to Oianli's znisey.
HeVbuld.endure disgrace,-nay adath, bat to face
'Josephine seemed worse than 'dathl itself. -But
there was no escape. Evasiorv was ityossible,
and in a few moments he a'pproaehed the house,
where he had'once been the object of suchtatten-
tion. Alas! what sad changes had; since dim-
ied his heart.:

CHAPTER IX.
A BnIGHTER DAY FOR OSMANiLI.

"    AiOON- BowAPART     rules France i"
Such was the cry of the delighted Parisians''and
it wanre-echoed by lie hunters on the Pyrenees,
the fishermen on. the Norman coasts, and the'
vine-dressers in the interior provinces'  Fast
sped the ,news, over Wnountain and vale, plain
and forest, with the rapid flight of Clan Alpines
fiery'ebss, awakening high hopes inthe breasts
of all who wished well for the nation. True, the
uid&amp;enturous soldier shared the power with two
f0llow-consuls, but every one knew that he could
make them subservient to his willand carry out
his-own plans. What those: plans wereno one
knew, but every one appeared confident that they
would regenerate public affairs, and restore
'As Osmanli approached the residence of .the
commander-in-chief, he saw 'many :evidences of
the change in the social rank of its owner A
muitaly gniard was posted at the gate-couriers,
mounted on fleet steeds, came andwent with,
disatChe--colonel of regiments quartered in
the city called to receive orders or to receive re-
porte-while wily office-holders, with obsequious
smieswere anxious to pay homage to thenew:
egera fofe state.
An, orderly was in attendance at the door,
evidtIy expecting the two genadiers who:
wordt   once :esco r ieito the drawing-room.

It was'filled with officers and civilians, excepting
ap open space near the door, where"st6od Gai'
eral Bonaparte, the observed of all observers.
No sooner did his quick eye discern the grena-
diers' uniforms,, though,' than he. advanced to
meet them, and, taking each by the hand, led'
Osmanli and Thome- into the midst of the as-
semblage.,
* " Gentlemen," and never had his voice 'been
so'commaiiding in its tone, "Ihese two grenpt
diers yesterday saved niy life,"and gratitude is
an immediate duty., Sergeantimajor Thome, I
promote you to. a aptaincy; with an iinul
pension of two' thousand francs. As for your,
comrade," and Bonaparte smiled as he spoke;'
"he is - a captain. already, although now in the
ranks on account of some intrigne-the ladies
are always spoiling my best troops. Butino,
matter-no matter,'Major Osmanli, or rather
Major Wilmot, I shall detail, you to a squadroii
of hoise, which.1propose-organizing, as adon-
sular guard. And now, majdr, open :yonder
door, and enter, you will there find friends.';
Bewilderedrand astonished, Osmanli mean.
ically turnedithe handle of th6 ddeorpointed ont
and, entered a small' room. There stood;his'
mother, who-had been anxiotsly'awaitinhisA
arrival-and:who-nOw, with a cery of joy fdld~d
him to herheart; ' Whn ihe: frAt transports of

delight had been indulged in, she gladdened his
heart by informing him how the dying Margry
had disclosed the truth, and established his inno-
cence. What joyous news I The dark clouds
which had lowered over the horizon of his hopes
disappeared before the glad tidings-the world
seemed brighter than- it' ever had before-nor
could he look upon the past except as a fearful
dream.
There was, a knock at the door, and Josephine
entered, leading Judith Fezenzac by the hand.
"Do not blush," said Madame Bonaparte,
"for we know all your temptations and afflic-
tions-your sufferings of body and of mind.
You have erred-who has not? But all that I
can remember of the 'past is, that you have twice
saved the life of -my 'noble .husb d-besides
having preserved my nightingale ere from a
fate far worse than death. Besides, your mother
is an old friend; so do not look so penitent.",
Osmanli could not speak, but bowed his grati-
tude. Never had Judith appeared so lovely to'
him before, for sorrow had but passed over her
featutes like a dove, the surface looking softer
from the touch of its wing. Forgiveness beamed
from her sparkling eyes, a kind smile kindled
around the corners of her expressive mouth, and
as she sat down beside his mother, the young
man knew not which to admire nost-or which
he loved the best.
Josephine was in high spirits, but the others,
although perhaps happier, did not say mpch-
their hearts were too full.
gy the way, major," said Josephine, " your
post in the consular guard will make you a fre-
quent inmate of the palace when we are once in-
staged there, and I warn you in advance that
you are not to make love to my maids of honor !"
"Ah, Madame Bonaparte," replied Osmanli,
"you need not fear me. Experience has taught
me how dangerous it in to be tob susceptible."
" Very well!I Especially the side-glance at
Mademoiselle Judith. Well, as she is already
named as one of my attendants, she should take
such a rejection of her charms as an insult."
"Madame, I-I-"
"Don't stammer, major. Br t you must all
know that I have to make preparations for our
removal.to the'palace, so I shall avail myself of
my'official privilege, aqd send you away. Don't
forget, my dear Madame Wilmot, to come- And
see me when I am installed in my new quarters."
"Yes, your majesty" replied Madame Wil.
mot, with a low courtesy. "You remember-"
5

" The fortune-teller!" exclaimed Josephine.
'That I db, and I feel assured that the predic-
tion will be fulfilled. Besides, Napoleon told
me last night of a wonderful prediction made
about him when he was in Egypt, by an Oriental
Magician. Adieu.. Let me s&amp; you often."
Osmanli sighed, but the kind, earnest tone in
which Judith said farewell, convinced his throb.
bing heart that they would soon meet again, and
that he had not forfeited her esteem.
They. were soon at Madare Wilmot's house,
and the fond mother took her son to gaze upon
the portrait of his father. To her it was a joyous
though melancholy moment, and early love, re-
lieved from the trouble of years, was as bright
and as fresh as a house atPompeii, just disen-
tombed from the ashes in which it had been
buried for years.
Happy were they in each ptier's society, that
long separated mother and son. But Osmanli's
thoughts would occasionally wander to General
Bonaparte's, and he would wonderif there would
ever be a time when he could woo and win Ju-
dith's gentle heart. The duties of his new office,
however, soon engrossed his entire, time, and
most of his thoughts. The consular guard, in
which he held a majority,. was culled from the
best troops of the army, and every man selected
was a veteran, who had served in those cam-
paigns which elevated their leder to renown.
Bonaparte was much interested in the new corps,
and not a day passed that be did not visit the
barracks, to chat with -the war-bronzed soldiers
who filled its ranks. One had been with him at
Toulon, an6ther at Arcola-some' had fought
under his orders in Egypt, and many bore hon-
orable scars of his Italian campaign. Need it be
said that he was welcomed with shouts of glad-
ness, nor was any one more delighted to see him
than Osmanli, for he always spoke of Judith,
and often, by a delicate jest, brought the warm
blopd to the major's cheek.
Soon.there was a grand military parade-a
double ceremonial of rejoicing enlr seventy-two
Turkish standards captured at A ionkir; and of
honor to the memory of George Washington.
The order, signed by Bonaparte, and dated on
the ninth of February, 1800, closed in these
words: "Washington is dead-thatgreat man,
who fought against tyranny, and consolidated the
liberty of his country. His memory ivill ever be
dear to the French people, and to all freemen in
both worlds: but more especially to the soldiers
of France, who, like him and his American

I I

69

I I

THE MAMUE.


THE MAMELUKE.

1

troops, fight in defence of liberty and equality."
This ceremony was the first appearance ofI
Bonaparte in public since he had assumed the4
consular power, and at an early hour every place
that command d a view of the expectedProces-
sion was occupied. Every window an balcony
of every house teemed With the fairer sex, thel
very housetops were instinct yvith- life, and the
steets on either side presented a dense mass of
human beings, with difficulty kept back within
the bounds of'their confined space by grumbling
dragoons. Soon came the procession, banners
waving, plumes dancing, bayonets glistening in
the sun, and martial music pealing forth inspir-
uing strains. The captured standards, each borne
bya veteran, formed an attractive feature of the
procession, but they were eclipsed by what, fol-
lowed them. In the midst of a splendidly uni-
'formed suite, but himself dressed with republican
simplicity, rode the First Consul, the cynosure
upon which all eyes rested. Loud were the
shouts which greeted him, but he simply ac-
ktiowledged the loyal demonstratibns by an oc-
dasional dignified nod. The Parisians, at last,
had found a master.
Behind General Bonaparte, in a carriage
drawn by four horses, rode Josephine, whose
joyous countenance expressed'the pleasure she
experienced at seeing the idol of her heart thus
devotedly cheered., She was accompanied by
Judith, who could but gaze at a dashing young
officer, who commanded the consular escort, and
rode by their carriage window. Once, too, when
his high-mettled charger reared and plunged
furiously, taking fright at a band of music, her
cheek blanched, and tears dropped from her
lone eyelids. It was Osmanli, and then, for the
first time, Judith felt that she really'loved him.
Ia the "Temple of Mars"'the scene was in-
teresting and impressive. The captured stan-
dards were arranged arotind a fine best of the
American -iberator, while on either side stood
two veterans, each in his hundredth'year. An
ortioin was pronounced by  . de-l!ontanes, a
funeial ode ivas chanted by a large choir, and,
throughout the ceremony, lBinapate received
regal honors,.
Returning in command of the escort, Osmanli
was richly'rewarded by a inillefrom Judith, as
ademe BonapUte inMited ilm' tomdine that
e   inwg at'the consul's a4116.- e iniiel
edlii squadron oietf mieore rdd streets
tium Ie mighthe ipore"Yp!ily arive at th4
barracks, an tenlaIig a    dni  '5iis comn

mand, returned. But on the quay he found his
progress barred by a large assemblage,'appar-
ently intoxicated with rage, shouting:
"Hang him! String hirh up to a lamp-post !"
"What is the disturbance ?" inquired Osmanli
of a burly lookingman, who, with a coil of rope,.
was hastening to the scene of tumult.
" Matter, monsieur officer! Matter. enough.
We have found a royalist, a rich one, too, dis-
tributing proclamations against Bonapaite. Ah!
the rascal. We have him, though, and if his
name is De Vergennes, we will soon string him
up-"
"De Vergennes !" exclaimed Osmanli, with
astonishment. Then, recollecting himself, he
added: " The very man I am commissioned to
arrest. Where is he ?"
I" Safe enough, monsieur officer. But he will.
soon have little breath to answer your inquiries.
We have found him corrupting the people, and.
we must hang him, After that, pest-you can
have him."
"But General Bonaparte! His orders !"
"Bother me if I know I" And the zealous
amateur hangman evidently felt perplexed.
"Look here, citizen," said Osraanli, with as
much coolness as he could assume. "liere I
ain, in command of a squadron of General Bona-
parte's new guard-I must have that de Ver-
gennes, or I can never return to my superior
officer. And I know, that you and those other
citizens will feel sure of justice froin the con-
queror at Montenotte and the Pyrainids !"
" All correct-Wait here a moment, And you
will have your man." And he rshed into the
mob, where his voice was soon heard, demand-
ing silence. Then there was an outcry. Silence
again. ' And then, amid shouts of "Long live
Bonaparte," the mass heaved open, and the un-
fortunate de Vergennes appeared, his eldthing.
rent in tatters, his face covered with blood, -and
his hands pinioned behind him.
Making him a hurried sign to be quiet, Os-
manli said, "Aha, count I I was just looking
for you, but these good citizens have hunted you
out." Then ordering a trooper to dimotunt, he
bad the prisoner placed on his horse, with strict
irAtructions to'kill him if he attetnpted to escape.
'this pleased the crowd much, and'as the troop-
*6rs trotted off to their barracks, they were 5alut
Aed with loud cries of- "Long live B6nayane!'
"Long live the consul's guard !"
The tstaat the squadron was within the bar-
rckeiaIs, Ystnanli ordered the rekher'to' be

70

conducted to his own room, where he soon joined
him.
" Pardon me, count," he said,.as he entered,
"for the unceremonious manner in which I have
treated you. But-"
1      GBt you have saved my life, my generous
friend. God reward you.. I can even now feel
their ferocious blows, and iiagine myself upon
the verge of the grave. Let me but once get out
of France, and her people may elect their own
politics. 1 shall not attempt to play the con-
spirator again.' But will I not involve you, my
generous friend ?"
"Nay, nay ' replied Osmanli. "And if you
did, I sm repaying a'debt. I shall see the first
consul this very evening, and think I can obtain,
your pardon. Meanwhile my servant will aid
you in changing your apparel. Adieu."
'Late that night a post-carriage started from
the barracks of the guard, carrying the Count de
Vergennes, with a passport as beaner of de-

spatches to the Prussian government. Osmanli,
finding General Bonaparte in excellent spirits at
the dinner-table, and above all delighted with his
new regiment of guards, narrated their first ex-
ploit. Bonaparte was delighted. "Let me but
rule France a few years, though," said he, "and
this mob will behave differently. But your friend
is free, and I will send him across the frontiers.
Tell him that I respect men, although I oppose
some principles."
Osmanli left soon after dinner, to prepare for
his friend's departure; but Judith expressed so
much interest in the matter, that he did not re-
gret having relinquished a cherished project. In
his dreams, however, he knelt at her feet, and
told his love. Nor, when the reveille awoke
him, was he certain for a few moments whether
he was an accepted suitor or not.
"CWell," he muttered to himself, as he de-
scended the barr;uck staircase, "a few days move
will1 decide my fae."

THE MAMEKE.


S

CH APTER* XX.
A BRIGHT A1D JOYOUS CONSUMMATION.

TEN days after the display chronicled in the the dauntless general threw himself from his
preceding chapter, General Bonaparte took pos- horse, entered the palace; and installed himself
session of the Tuileries palace, where the old; in the home of the monarchs of France.
bourbon kings had lived for centuries. The    A magnificent dinner followed, but Osmanli,
procession was,not -a brilliant one, except in who was among the guests, longed for 'he close
military pomp, but the Parisians filled the streets of its details. At length every course was dis-
through which it passed. No sooner did Bonn- posed of, and then the entire party repaired to
parte enter his carriage, than the air seemed to be the saloon. Here, for the first time since the
rent with a thunderburst of joyful cheering, that death of her father, Osmanli found himself alone
e reverberating back upon the utterers, and with Judith; but neither of them could converse
:appeared, as the cortege proceeded, to increase on the ordinary topics. Their hearts were too
di ervor and in strength. Arrived at the pal- full, and it was not until they had strolled out
,Aee, Bonaparte left his" carriage, vaulted on upon a balcony overlooking the gardens, that,
Ilorsebackaand reviewed the troops; after which the young soldier found words.
twe hole force defiled before him, as he sat on  "Judith," said he, " can you listen to me ?n
bis harderr, before the massive portals of the ' And as he gazed earnestly on her classical fea-
mble edifice. Around him   were his generals tures, pure as the moonbeams which shone on-
.and,staffegfieers, " every one of whom had been them, she seemed more bewitching than ever.
-.m re attles than he numbered years;;" nor was She did not speak, for conflicting emotions stir-
ther &amp;,more gallant cavalier on the-ground than red her heart, but a deep sob convulsed her form,
Osoliwhose squadron, as it passed in review, and her eyes glistened with emotion. To Os-
elicited Joud encofniums. Last in the brrilliant manli,.these tears fell like the dew of heaven,
Columns .eame &amp;ree brigades which had served and, with the enthusiasm  of poetic inspiration,
in Italynaad i Egypt, and whose colors were he unburdened his soul.
mere shreds of battered silk, rent by bullets, and  "The bright blush of shame mantles my
blackened5the -smoke. As they were carried cheek," he exclaimed, "as I think how I 'was
past Bonapare, he ook off his hat, and saluted beguiled from your influence - but never, updn
them with, a1,pyrofuind reverence. Shunts re- my honor, never have I ceased to love you.
ouere they had ended, When grief has oppressed me, or when joy's

I

THE MAI
bright smile has illuminated my existence-when
my fondest hopes-have been crushed, or when
bright dreams have inspired tny heart-your
image has been my idol, and every pure thought
has been mingled with -your name. Forgive
me! Gladden my heart by some encouragement
that I may, when I have proven my worthiness,
call you mine own. Let our lives mingle their
currents, and let me, as your protector, replace
your father's loss."
There was no reply, for the agitated girl could
not speak. But Osmanli took courage from the
eloquent encouragement of her eyes, those tele-
graphs of love, whose bright glances convey
hope quicker than speech, even as the-lightning
far outstrips the thunder's voice. At last she
smiled through her tears, and whispered:
"Let what has .past be forgotten. And if I
am worthy of your devotion, such love must
make me happy."
They loved. But word&amp;cannot describe their
interchange of sentiment, as for hours they paced
up and down tlatold terrace.. The moon shone
brightly, and the stars beamed like diamonds
from heaven, to hallow every thought. Within
was dancing and gaiety-while the city before
them was busy, and noisy, and bustling-but
neither were thought of by the now happy cou-
ple. Often, since that time, has the same terrace
witnessed the interchange of vows, but among
the many who have poured. forth the boarded
treasures of their hearts, none have loved more
devotedly than the Mameluke. Nor cold he
hear Judith own her preference for him, without
feeling his heart's chords vibrate before her voice
like those of an Eolian harp touched by the south
wind.
They were happy. Heart responded to heart,
and their every thought, acquiring ethereal in-
spiration, mingled. And what can be holier, on
earth, than the first interchange of vows, in soli-
tude, and by the gentle lights of night. If ever
a ray from  the better world gilds the gloom
which surrounds earth's fairest creations-if ever
the light of hope mantles the check of despond-
ency-if ever an angel folds his nestling pinions
to contemplate a scene of earthly happiness, it is
when the solemn hour of night is awakened by
the pire and ardent vows of two loving spirits.
Past existence seems worthless, but the new lpve
blooms as a heaven-budded plant,, planted deep
in the existence of each, and moistened by the
fountains of life-
"My children 1" .

MELUKE.                                  78
The'promenaders stopped, for they recognized
the voice of Madame Wilmot. "My children,"
she said, "for so I now feel that I may call you,
inclination would have led me here an hour since,
to assure you how I rejoice in the betrothal o'
two so well qualified to make each othcr happy.
But I could not bear to interrupt you. Now,
Madame Bonaparte is inquiring for you, Judith,
and I can only say that I shall ever ask Heaven's
blessing upon your union."
As they entered the saloon, they met General
Bonaparte, with Josephine hanging on his arm.
" Well, well I" he jocosely remarked, "while
we have been receiving our guests, the major of
my guards has been captivating my nightingale.
So goes the world. But mind, major, you must
not 6e tempted from the service again. France
has need of such as you just now, and those who
serve her will not be forgotten."
"Nay, general," replied Osmanli, "my heart
is pledged to Judith, but my sword is at your
disposal."
"Well spoken. What say, Josephine, shall
we notwitness the marriage ceremony before the
major is ordered on his first campaign !"
'That," said Josephine, "will be as Judith
says."
Judith hung her head and blushed.
"I. will set the day a fortnight hence, then,
and we will have the marriage ceremony per-
formed by the archbishop. Now, major, it is
time for you to be in barracks, and Judith shall
go with me to my.study and sing me one of the
airs with which she used to cheer my Egyptian
campaign."
" I obey, general, and wish all good evening."
"Bravo; bravo I You are a model soldier,
and will make a model husband, I doubt not.
Meanwhile, you can pass all your evenings here
at the palace, if you will but return at a season-
able hour, in order to be up at reveille."
When Osmanli awoke the next morning, it
was with difficulty that he could persuade him-
self that the events of the past evening were not
a dream. But when, after morning parade, hi
called at the palace, he found that he was indeed
a happy man.
To add to his pleasure, he received a long
letter that day from the Count de Vergennes,
informing him that he had safely arrived in
Prussia, and sh uld, for the present, remain a
quiet spectator f political events. His gratitude
for the service Osmanli had rendered him, was
wnbonnded, and he expressed strong hopes that


THE MAMELUKE. 7'5

atome time he would repay the debt. Accom-
panging the letter was a, small parcel, contain-
ing a valuable diamond..
. To display the many other gifts which Osmanli
and Judith received, would require more room
tha these pages can afford. Never did a young
0ople enter upon life with fairer auspices, and
yet, at times, Judith's fair brow was overcast
w"di sadness. '
One morning Osmanli called, in'full uniform,
for lie had been with his squadron to escort Gen-
eral Bonaparte on an excursion to a new bar-
rack. Judith sprang to greet him, but her eyes
filed with tears, and her fine lip quivered. She
did not speak, but held out her hand, and grasped
hil warmly.'
"'Whysis this ?" asked Osmanli. "In tears!
Surely, dearest, nothing can have-gone wrong ?"
"iNo, no !" replied Judith, mastering her
emotion. "Listen!I I was' just regretting, be-
fote you entered, that you had embraced the
profession of arms-a profession that is glorious
and renowned, but alas, full of peril. You are
today in the full enjoyment of life and health,
bust let'duty summon you to the tented field, and
to-morrow you may be a corpse. Oppressed by
these thoughts,'I felt sad, And your unexpected
entry, in the trappings of war, caused an over.
fidw of my laden heart."
"Dearest Judith, it was but last evening that
SI ld a long conversation with my dear mother
Ott this very subject. Honor keeps me for the
present in the service, but perhaps,ere very long,
I shall cross the ocean with my mother, to see
my father's home. Will it please my nightin-
gale to abide there, in the deep forests, where
nmt'erreigns ".       .
"Anywhere, Osmanli) if you are there. But,
it you love me, do not make my future existence
unhappy by remaining in the army."
""Treason-rank treason 1" exclaimed a well-
kAo*zn voice. Both started, and each looked
eoiffised, for it was General Bonaparte who had
spoken. He had entered just after. Osmanli,
but so absorbed were the young couple in each
other, that they had not noticed hin.
Yes," he continued, "here I find a lady en.
deavoring to persuade the major of my guards
to desert, and that just as his command is
oganized."
"No, general I" said Osmanli, in a respectful
toee, "Not to desert. Iudith knows too well-
helw deeply I am indebted to you, and how de-
tetmined I am to show my gratitude. When

1-1

I

the enemies of France are conquered, and you
are king-"I
"Say emperor," interrupted Bonaparte, with
a smile.
"Well, emperor. Tlen, and not until then,
will I resign my swordd"
"Then, and not until then, my gallant yet
love-lorn youth, will I accept your resignation.
When is the wedding to take place ?"
"Next week, general."
"Well, well. We must see that the ceremony,
is worthy of the occasion; nor will I longer in-
terrupt the billing and cooing. But," and he
raised his finger menacingly, "no more talk
about leaving the-service."
Why linger upon the description of these pre-
cious interview, when we can at once portray
the accomplishment 6f each fond hope. The
marriage ceremony was celebrated in the mag-
nificent gothic pile of Notre Dame, a chapel of
which*was expressly decorated for the occasion.
General Bonaparte's uncle Lucien, who was a
dignitary in the Roman church, performed the
ceremony, and numerous was the attendance of
fair women and brave men. Each of the happy
couple was first baptized, and then joined by
those sacred ties which death alone can sever.
The bridegroom, ih the prime of life, seemed the
.personification of happiness, and the bride could'
but realize the most refined conception of female
oveliness that ever flashed through a sculptor's
dreams.
" Amen and amen! Peace on earth and good
will to man," rang through the vaulted aisles of
the gothic fane. Osmanli Wilmot and Judith
Fezenzac were thenceforth one, and as the happy
bridegroom gazed at his bride, he saw her star-
light eyes flooded with the sa e sweet tears of
joy that coursed down his own manly cheek.
The wilderness of doubts, and fears, and trials,
was traversed, while happy thoughts, and joyous
raptures, scattered rose-leaved upon the pleasant
pathway, on which they now walked hand-in-
hand.
After the ceremony at the church, there was a
brilliant entertainment at the palace; in honor of
the event. For the first time since\ the unfortu-
nate Queen Marie Antoinette had left them, to
ascend the fatal scaffold, the salons of the Tuil-
eries, refulgent with the light of myriads of wax
candles, were filledwith a gay throng. But the
glare of illumination, nor the splendor of dresses,
nor the scintillations of jewelry, nor the romafitie
beauty of the young, nor the mature animation

of the matrons,,was not equal to the serene de-
light which beamed from the happy couple's eyes.
Refreshments were most profusely circulated
throughout the evening, and at midnight Gen-
eral Bonaparte and Josephine, followed by the
bride and bridegroom, led the way to a magnifi-
cent supper-table, covered with game, fruit and
choice wines. A band of musie poured forth
lively strains, and joy reigned on every hand.
Soon 'the music ceased, and the host gave a
toast. It was:
"The health of Colonel Wilmot, of the con-
sular guard-of his bride, a lady of honor in this
palace, and of his-excellent mother, superintend-
ent of the consular domestic expenditures."
And turning towards Osmanli, he handed him
the three parchments, commissions which half of
those present would have sacrificed their all to
have obtained.
There was a&amp;i instant of silence. Osmanli es-
sayed to- reply, but-could not express his grati-
tude. Springing forward, he sank upon one
knee, and grasping Bonaparte's hand with reve-
rential deference, he pressed it to his lips. Tho
effect was electrical, for it was the homage only'
paid to sovereigns, and amid loud shQuts of
"Long live Bonaparte I" Osmanli rose, saluted
the company, and left the festive scene.

A few fleeting days'of happiness, and Osmanli.
was ordered to march, at the head of his regi-
ment, towards Italy. It was hard to part with
Judith, but in relinquishing the pleasures of con-
nubial love, he entered the field of glory, where
he could serve his idolized benefactor. Besides,
his mother watched over his bride, and they both
enjoyed the protection of Madame Bonaparte.
Crossing France, the army marched directly
.toyards the towering Alps, whose summits,
crowned with snow, are enthroned in clouds.
There was no road, and -the narrow path was
one along which the chamois-hunter picked his
way with caution. On the one side,.death await-
ed a single false step, on the other, towered
overhanging avalanches; but, animated by the
presence of Bonaparte, the columns passed over
without accident. And as the army descended
on the other side of the mountains, entering a
beautiful valley, full of verdure and luxuriant
vines, all admitted that the honor of the passage,
next to Bonaparte, belonged to the colonel of
his guard, who had led the way.
Such was the honorable mention of Osmanli,
in the bulletin sent by the general to Paris. It
gladdened the hearts of his mother and his bride,
yet they wept when they thought of the dangers
which he had undergone.

w-

0

791

75

I I

THE XOMMI


MONTEBELo and Marengo I They were hard
fought fields, on each of which "bones crashed'
like hailstones against windows," as the French,
charging with vigor into the Austrian columns,
won brilliant and decisive victories. Foremost
in each fight, at the head of his serried ranks,
was Osmanli, who had that quickness of percep-
tion so necessary to an officer, yet never suffered
his intrepidity to lead him beyond his duty. At
Marengo he won high honor, for when sent un-
der General Desaix to turn the tide of the fight,
before which some French regiments had faltered,
the brave general received a musket-ball in his
forehead, and fell dead. For a moment,' the
cavalry tightened their reins, but just then, in a
tone which rang far above the -din of battle, Os-
manli shouted:
ForwardI Charge for Bonaparte and ven-
geance I"
"Bonaparte and vengeance !" echoed the
guards, the cry stimulating them with fresh
courage.  On- they dashed, their long sabres
gleahiing above the sulphurous clouds which
rolled ovei the plain, and soon'they rode through
the opposing forces, cutting and trampling down
the Austrians as'if they were destroying a field
of wheat. That charge gained the day, but the
loss of Desaix clouded Bonaparte's enjoyment,
and that night, when Osmanli came to make his
report, the general said

"Your bravery, Colonel Wilmot, won the
victory, and your young wife's heart will leap
for joy when she hears your praises on every
tongue. Yet how different would she have felt
had your fate been that of poor Desaix. Per-
haps she would have reproached me, too. No-
this must not be. Listen, colonel, I once told
yot that you owed me-owed France, a debt.
You have pa-id it. This campaign is -over, and
now, honorably discharged, you can live in com-
fortable retirement." '
" General," replied Osmanli, "I have but per-
formed my duty, and never will I forsake you,
whilst you need a sword or a horseman. Yet-"
"Yet," interrupted Bonaparte, "you love
your wife, and she is opposed to warfare. Would
that all mankind'were. For-my own part, I am
but as the mouth-piece, through -hich, as
through a trumpet, speaks the warlike genius of
the French people. - I find the nation turbulent
and dissatisfied, and I unite them to combat -
others. Warfare is one of the passions of man-
kind, 'and I must adopt it as the foundation of,
my power. But never can I bring sorrow into
so gentle a heart as that of your bridQ. No, no!
They may call mie a military 'tyrant, but my
behrt is not callous to'the finer feelings of hu-
manity."                   ,1     '%
"Kind, generous man !" exclaime&amp; Osrhanli.

- THE MA

"But I cannot desert you now. When you as-'
cend the imperial throne, I can perhaps retire,
to contemplate your glories from another hemi-
sphere."
."&amp;Well, well. We shall see. Now for the
reports."
A narrative of this conversation, which Os-
manli sent to Paris by the same courier who
conveyed intelligence of the victory, gladdened-
the hearts of his wife and mother. All the proud
mentions of the young hero's na ne did not, in
their eyes, compensate for the anguish they ex-
perienced when they first received the false in-
telligence that he had fallen.I
Soon the army returned to Paris, and was re-
ceived with turaultuous applause. Thanksgiv-
ings were offered up in the churches, shouts of
welcome and congratulation resopunded on every
side, and the streets were strewn with flowers as
the conquerors passed. The valor of the-con-I
sular guards had preceded theip, and Osmanli,
distinguished by his uniform, received cheer
,after cheer. Bue the triumphal ovation was, to
him, long and tedious. At length his regiment
reached -its barracks, and he hastened to the pal.-
ace. There, folded to the heart of his own Ju-
dith, he felt happier than had he been in Bona-
parte's position, or worn a crown.I
"And you will not leave me again ?"'she
asked, with an irresistible smile.
"Henceforth, dearest," was his reply, "I am
yours 'alone. The general has promised to give
me a diplomatic mission, and having then hon-
orably resigned my commission, I can be ever
with those I love."
" But, Osmanli. will you not cross the ocean ?
Your mother has quite prepossessed me iti favor
of America, where your father's estate now
awaits your coniing."
" But can you forego the luxuries of city life ?"
" Yes, yes ! With you, dearest, I can be happy
anywhere. And' there you will be away from
the enticements of military glory. But here
comes our mother."
The meeting between Osmanli and Madame
Wilmot was affectionate and cordial, and she
soon united her prayers to the wish of Judith,
that they could cross the ocean.
"Wait until -after the imperial coronation,"
said Osmanli, with a smile, as they descended to
the drawing-room.   -
A few days passed, and Osmanli was sent'
on a mission to Madrid, and when he returned,
he found that during his absence he had been

CHAPTER XXL
FAREWELL TO FRANCE.

MELUKE.                                 77
honorably discharged from the service, and' ap-
pointed treasurer of the consular household. To
Madame Wilmot and Judith, this was a happy
change, for they could now live united, and en-
joy the social pleasures of domestic life. Os-
manli was also rejoiced at being able to enjoy
the society of his wife and mother, although oc-
casionally, when his old regiment passed hia in
the street, his heart would thr9b with martial
pride, and a sigh would escape his lips. Curi-
ously enough, General Bonaparte now seldom
noticed hin, but that was not perhaps to be
wondered at, so arduously did the first consul
labor to consolidate the government. Republi-
cattforms and usages vanished like an autumnal
frost before the morning's sun. The etiquette
of a court was revived. Chatnberlains, equerries,
and other costly attendants on royalty were in-
stalled at the palace, nor was there any' limit
there to ostentatious display or lavish extrava-
gance. All- the shattered fragments of society
were bound up in the chains of a vast military
despotism, the Roman church rall:c1 around the
power which restored its fallen altars, and the
enraptured Parisians worshipped their new idol.
The capital resumed its ancient splendor-talent,
art, and genius, no longer compelled to hide
themselves in obscurity, were received into favor.
Manufactures flourished, and France again saw
plenty and prosperity reviving in her midst,
effacing all vestiges of the long night of sorrow
which had passed.
Madame Bonaparte did much to ameliorate
the condition of society, and to aid those who
had suffered from the'Revolution., In this good
work she employed Madame Wilmot and her
son, furnishing them with unlimited means to
succor all who returned from exile penniless.
One da, Josephine entered Madame Wil-
mot's room, dressed in a common garb, very
different from her usual rich and tasteful costume.
" 1 have taken the liberty of appointing an in-
terview in your room, my dear madame," said
she,
" An interview ?"
"Don't be shocked! It is with alady-a for-
tune-teller-the celebrated Madame Le Normand.
We shall hear if she endorses the statements of
our old West Indian friend."
Soon the pythoness was announced, a good
looking, intelligent dame, of whom Josephine
inquired:
"Can you tell me if I am to remain long in
my present condition ?"

ft


7 79 TIMF. NMELUKE:

THE MAMELUKE.

Madame Le Normand shuffled her mystical
cards, and then examined them. After taking
up three or four, she stopped, and gazed at
Josephine.
" Can it bd possible" she ejaculated.
" Everything is possible to those who will,"
was the reply.
"Such, lady, is the motto of your chivalric
husband, whose future elevation you now labor
to attain. Success will follow-"
"And I will really become a queen ?" inter-
rupted Josephirie.
"Alas, it is so written on the oracle, 'You
will ascend a throne. The strength and power
of your attending genius promise you a wonder-
ful, an inconceivable destiny-but your husbandr.
will one day forget his solemn vows. Unhappily,
the greater be shall become, the 'more he will
stoop to artifice, in order to attain hi's own ends."
"Nay, nay," responded Josephine. "It can-
not be that Napoleon will ever desert me. His
fate is too closely linked with mine. To me,
and not to him, did destiny promise a crown,
and through me has he risen-'through me he
will rise. Let him repulse me, and' he will fall."
Months passed, and one day Osmanli came
into his wife's room, where he found his mother.
"Good news I" he exclaimed, tenderly em-
bracing Judith.
"What ?" asked both ladies.
"1Why the day of the coronation is definitely
fixed. Monsieur Le Brin, now second consul,
is named treasurer of the imperial exchequer,
and I have General Bonaparte's permission to
retire. Now, dear mother, I can tread the soil
of my ancestors, and with you and Judith, far
removed from these gay and frivolous scenes, we
can lead that life of quiet enjoyment for which,
we have so long prayed."
That was a happy evening for' the Wilmots;
nor did Bonaparte display a more childish im-
patience to grasp his imperial insignia, than did
they to 'depart for the retirement of their forest
home.
At length the eventful day was -ushered in by
the rbar of artillery, and soon there was such a
display in the streets as the gay capital of France
had never witnessed before. The high military
and civil dignitaries of the empire, with the for-
eign.ambassadors, and troops, formed a pageant
unrivalled for ibagnificence. The interior of the
cathedral had been sumptuously decorated, and
its vast galleries were.thronged with titled spec-
tators, in full dress, and resplendent with gold

and jewels. The pope consecrated the imperial
diadem, after which he presented it to Bonaparte,
who placed it on his own head, then removed it
to thehead of Josephine, and then again laid it
upon the altar. .An anthem of praise was chant--
ed, and then the heralds proclaimed that the'
thrice glorious and august Napoleon had been
crowned "Emperor of the French."  The accla-
mations of the assembled 'multitude pealed as
from the ocean, while the thousands without
taking up the shout, all Paris echoed with "Long
live Napoleon1"
Joy and pleasure, that day, had dominion in
France.
The farewell audience was brief. Napoleon
cordially thanked Osmanli for his faithful ser-
vice, and entreated him'to return if he became
dissatisfied with, America. Josephine had or-
dered costly gifts for Madame Wilhot and Ju-
dith. "Perhaps," she laughingly remarked,'as
-they left, "you.may some day receive a visit
froh me. Iam the child of destiny, ond there
is no saying where the ocean of time may yet
cast me."
Leaving Paris, the emigrants repaired to Ha-
vre, where, to their delight, they found their old
friend, Jack Norman, in command of a vessel
about to sail for Savannah. They at once en-
gaged his cabin, and the vessel was nearly'
freighted' with Osmauli's purchases, Books,
furniture, agricultural implements, with many
other things calculated to promote comfort, had
been carefully selected, and a few trusty domes-
tics were also taken. The Indians yet inhabited
the region'where Osmanli proposed to settle-it
was his father'slome-and civilization had made
little progi-ess into the forest. So they went
prepared to transplant their home coshforts, and
to improve the social condition of their wild
neighbors.
The yoyage was short, but tempestuous, and
the staunch old vessel had to struggle hard to
surmount the mountain waves. . But they were
bound to their home, the land of freedom, and
did not complain. A$ last, they reached the
mouth of the Savannah river, with its sentinel

igh   Aa
bluff of the
preparatio
luggage,'
Norman, t

at. te next tide,. landed under the
city of Oglethorpe. The necessary
ns were soon made for forwarding the
and, bidding a hasty adieu to Jack
ho party started for their forest-home.
..

x

Years passed on! Europe was convulsed,
and many of her! fields were fertilized by the
blood of hostile armies, but at the residence of
the Wilmots all was repose, and happiness, and
calm tranquillity. The mild and bprrevolent fea-
tures of the old lady beamed with satisfaction,
and her enjoyment was heightened by the clan-,
nish respect paid to her son by the surviving
Indians who had followed her husband in war
and in peace. -Judith, a buxom  matron, sang
to her infant prattler the songs with which she
had once charmed the imperial warriors, and
although time's unsparing hand had chastened

the brilliancy of her beauty, it had brought out
the deeper, purer, holier tints of her mind and of
her countenance in stronger relief. As for Os-
mnanli, a sphere of active usefulness had opened
to him in the high duties - of an American citi-
zen, and instead of dreaming away existence, he
filled many important offices with credit to him-
self and profit to his adopted country. Nor did
he ever forget the deep debt of gratitude which
he owed to the "mystic tie," for he owed every.
thing-his life, his religion, his mother, his wife,
his home, to the use of its "secret sign."

THE END.

40

79

78


TOM SMITM "could do anything." All his
friends and companions believed inhis universal
capacity, and he himself was satisfied of it; A
dashing cleverness in whatever he attempted,
made even his failures seem better evidence of
genius than the success of other men. "~He
might if he would," was the verdict of his ad-
mirers. "I could do it,if I thought'it worth my
while," was Tom's own consolation under re-
verses and disappointments.
At school he was chiefly remarkable for inat-
tention to his studies, while an occasional bril-
liant triumph, when all around expected com-
plete disgrace, forced the admiration of teachers
and pupils at his talents, and their regret at his
neglect and abuse of them. He was content
with such partial successes, and was, moreover,
proud of his contempt for his own abilities,
which others so much admired and envied. He
delighted to show the plodders, as he called
them, that the snail does not always-beat, in the
race with the hare, as the fable teaches, though
the snail does labor on continually, and the hare
stops every now and then for a frolic at the
brook-side. Such was the character which he
carried from the school to the university. And
when he was thence expelled for the eccentrici-
ties of his genius, which were developed in a
shower of stones against a professor's windows,
he comforted himself with the distich:-- 1

i

"For more true joy Marcellus, exiled, feels,
Than Csar, with a senate at his heels.",
That, by the way, is a couplet which has been
applied, with admirable originality, during every
college rebellion, and the pstication. or expul-
sion consequent, which have occurred since col-
lege misconduct was first in fashion. Little
consolation does it present, however, to the pa-
rents whose hopes are defeated, and whose ex-
pectations are disappointed by the misconduct
of the son. Small promise of ;after usefulness
do such beginnings afford,-little warrant of N
reward for parental culture, in the life-harvest of
-the boy.
Now let us advance over the somewhat stale
description of a-reckless youth to his maturer
manhood. Despite of the prophecies of the
comforters of his parents that the "ne'er-do-
weel " Tom Smith, would "never come to any-
thing," behold him admitted to the bar, with
unusual honors. The shame of being taunted
with his inefficiency had spurred him to such
unwonted exertion and application, as developed
his full strength. For once, Tom had done his
best, and so triumphantly did he make his
entree uponhis professional career, that it began
to be suspected that he was unjustly misrepre-
sented by those who asserted that he was idle
and negligent at college. Business flowed in

TilE STORY OP A GENIUS.

upon him apace; and the novelty of his position, -I
its excitement, in which he delighted, and the a
pleasure of having asserted his ability by a vic- se
tory over circumstances, set him up completely y
in his own heart.                           a
But his application did not long continue. s3
The position which he had gained, as it were, at l
a jump, he had not industry sufficient to retain d
by hard labor; and hard labor only can main- li
tain him who by accident, or a specious appear- n
ance of fitness, beaches a place for which he is E
really incompetent. Tom had genius but not e
learning. He sported with the feelings of his i
clients, as he had long been in the habit of doing o
with his own ; and though he often sheceeded in t
retrieving the affairs entrusted 'to him, by des- o
perate plunges, at theeldse of long and weary e
doubts, hi- clients were not so grateful for being h
saved "by the skin of their teeth," as the pro- i
verb expresses it, as Tom thought they should e
have been. They did not relish being thrown b
overboard, to display his skill in rescuing them
from drowning; and if extrication from fearful
dilemmas did minister to Tom's triumphs, they
could not forget that his carelessness had placed 1
them in their difficulties. They did not like
that their causes and their property should be j
put in peril by his negligeice, in order that the 1
hair-breadth victory should exalt his reputation; I
and would far rather that a little of the plodding t
industry which he despised should secure them
from the first. than that they should come in vie
tors at the last, by a coup dermain. It resulted,
at last, that Thomas Smith, Esq., was avoided
as coune-el by careful men,~but was summonelI
in desperate cases, which none other pared to
undertake. Under such a stimulus he was al-I
most uniformly successful; and thus, without
the true requisites of a sound jurist, he had a
conqueror's reputation, and a fitful, though, on
the whole, a lucative practice.  There is a
western boast which illustrates' thb life of such
men. He could fall lower, and still rise, or, as
the phrase is, "dive deeper and come up drier"
than -almost any other. It was' always dark
night or bright sunshine with him-a fearful
storm  or a dead calm.
At length it occurred that some business in
which he was engaged required the intervention,
of the Legislature. His presence at the capital
was required to expedite it. One proposition in'
the consultations with his .clients led to another,
until'it was suggested that it were better to elect
him as a representative, than to depute him as a

81

bby member. The matter was talked over,
nd as those of the public who knew the secret
aw no particular fitness in the election of a law-
er with half-a-dozen clients in a particular case,
s his actual constituency, there were strong
ymptoms of opposition., But this only stimu-
ated him. It spurred his energy, and fixed his
etermination to be elected, for though he cared
little for the honor, and knew the profit was
othing, to be opposed was to ensure his success.
le threw himself into the work with his.whole
nergy, and after vigorous canvassing, caucus-
ng and exertion, he was returned by a majority
f ten votes; a much more acceptable triumph
o him than if he had been elected'by a majority
f ten hundred. To have been unanimously
elected would have possessed no charms for
im; and had the reception of his nomination
ndicated an appearance of unanimity among the
lectors in his favor, we do believe he would
have declined the intended honor.
In the Legislature he,was true to his old char-
acter. He was placed at the head of an impor-
tant committee, in compliment to his reputation,
but his committee work was really nothing. In
drawing up reports and investigating the sub.
ects referred, he had absolutely no share. But
his " genius " stood him-in good stead, for with
his powerful natural abilities, he could astonish
those who drew up the reports, by making a bet
ter defence than they; and his skillful ad cap-
tandun hits and witty repartees, his unbounded
assurance and wonderful readiness completed
the work which others had begun, and made
him who was really the cipher in the. business
seem the character, by whom only the others
had significance. Tom was delighted with'legis-
lation. It was, as he managed it, a glorious,
continual contest against odds, which ma'de his
fame ring again, and he was really almost de-
eived into the belief that he was a statesman.
I But the Hon. Mr. Smith's course was not all
sunshine. His old carelessness threw him into
a.troublesome difficulty. He was absent from
his post when a decisive vote was taken upon
the very question which he had been elected to
carry-and he was horrified one morning to find
that his opponents'had taken advantage of his
absence to defeat his clients. Great and terrible
*as the wrath of his friends, and even Tom
Smith-lucky Tom Smith-appeared at last in
a lane which seemed' 'to have no turn. 'He saw
no mode in which he could retrieve himself, and
no excuses presented themselves with which he

[FROM GLEASON 'S PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION.]
T-H E STO R Y 0 F A G E N IUS.
BY REV. H. HASTINGS WELD.


0

THE STORY OF A GE14IUS.

THE STORY OF A GENIUS.

4

could face his friends. It was such a palpable
and unpardonable fault, so grossly inexcusable,
that even our -hero was ready to despair- But
his good fortune did not yet desert him. One of
the "plodders "-and genius is often more in-
debted to the plodders than the world'suspects-
saved him from destruction. A careful, old,
dull-headed tactitian, who was in the same inter-
est with Smith, voted against him, in order to
secure a right to move a "reconsideration."
This was opening enough for Smith. it was a
breach in the enemy's defences, into which he
threw himself; and, with his old'success, turned
the tables, and came off with flying colors, and
more admiration than ever. But hehad given,
also, an endorsement of his 'old character, that
he was "inot fit to be trusted."
The session wore away, but the Hon. Mr.
Smith had lost his interest in the public business.
It bad no more charms for him. The great ex-
citement was over, and he turned with distaste
from the formal phraseology of acts to repeal
acts, acts, to modify acts, acts to continue acts,
and all the forasmuches, whereases, preambles,
chapters ard sections of routine law-making.
He sought excitement somewhere else-and
found it. Where?
Thereby hangs a tale-or rather the moral of
our tale. The kef to the Hon Mr. Smith's
strange negligence-was the same that will too
often explain the "aberrations of genius." He
was fond of deep potations and of luxurious
food. He liked the wit and excitement of the
dinner table, and the supper. He was thq soul
of-convivial parties, and was prone to the et cet-
eras which fill up the days of those whose nights
are given to revelry, the excitement of the bil-
liard room  and the bowling alley, the early
mingling of strong drink  Ii these scenes he
could shine 'without effort. Ready applause and
hearty appreciation followed all the sallies of so
distinguished a convive.. To such haunts and to
such companions he was ready to fly, not only
from the fatigue of his profession, but to escape
that fatigue before he incurred it. -
The Hon. Mr. Smith would have quietly re-
tired from public life entirely, at the cloie of his
first term, but there were two reasons against it.
Onewas, that he liked the license of the capital
-the other, that he foind " public sentiment'"
so unanimous against his reelection, that to de-
dine to contend would be a.palpable defeat. In
neglecting the business of the House, he had
suffered the district which he represented to-lose'

some important advantages, and the people
were no$ at all disposed to forgive him. Again
he nerved himself for the contest. Again he
succeeded. Defeat would have beenbetter for'
him.
We must spare the reader the aiarrative of all
the downward steps by which the Hon. Thomas
Smith became a sot. The first steps in this
path were taken many years before. In his
youth and college days, his dangerous passion
for praise,~and fondness for unwise excitement,
had betrayed him into the love of drink,'and if
conscience or some considerate friend warned
him to beware, the deceptive promise was ready
"0, I cannot sink! I recover myself too
easily." The recklessness of danger which
grows out of over-bonfidence-the estimate of
his own powers which maade him despise the
fear of being taken at a disadvantage, ruined
Tom Smith, as it has ruined many more. The
pride which exalts in self debasement (not abase-
ment), in order that it may be shown from how
low a depth to rise is possible, is much more
common than is usually imagined. There is
scarce an outcast in.the world who does not im-
agine that he could re-establish himself, if only
he thought it worth his while, and would set
about it!
Down! Down! The elasticity of the strong.
est must give way at last, and the mind sympa-
thizes with the besotted, as well as with the vig-
orous body. We have not mentioned Smith's
wife, butit must not therefore be inferred that
he had none. Women are admirers of the bril-
liant and the bold; and each of Tom's hair-
breadth successes would fhave procured him a
wife, if it were the custom of the country thus to
multiply.  That his disgrace and excesses
brought unhappiness upon her and misfortune
upon his children, is the old story of every ine-
briate's home.
At last he was given over. Even his wife-
and wives hope to the last-had ceased to expect
that he could recover, or that, from the deep, dis-
grace into-which he had plunged, there wasany
expectation of his emerging. He still bad pro-
fessional business., Pickpockets with more
aliases than changes of garments,; inebriates, to
whose names "drunk and disorderly "'w   as
invariable -  affix as esquire is to thatof a gen-
tleman-all the host of the particular acquaint-
ance of thee police were his clients. "ZEven in
his ashes lived hiwontled fire,".and-the:epohice
transactions were -never -so interesting as-'whea

82

I

4

the Hon. Thomas Smith "appeared for the de-
fendant." He often- astonished those who had,.
aid those who had 'not known him in better
days, by managing petty cases with a skill wor-
thy of a better arena. This was triumph
enough for him! Tell him he could do better if
he would, and he would acknowledge the com-
pliment with such a full appreciation of its
truthfulness, as, indicated that he considered it
unnecessary labor to make the trial.
It so chanced one day, that he heard himself
discussed, when the interlocutors were not aware
that he was listening. And he heard them,
moreover, reach the calm and sad conclusion
'that he wds sunken past recall or recovery.
They agreed that he had so wasted his energy
and impaired his strength, mental and physical,
that further expectation for him there was none,
except that he would die like a drunken swan-
if such a bird were possible-in singing in bac-
chine eloquence his own defence against being
committed as a vagrant.
"Perhaps so," said Smith. A new resolve
was awakened in him. People doubted that he
could overcome temptation. He would see!
From that moment he put the resolve in prac-,
tiee. It was the most severe struggle he had
ever undertaken, but his re-awakened pride, sec-
onded by a strong will, was triumphant. He
raised himself from the kennel, -as he had prom-

83

ised himself he would, and ended life where he
should have commenced it, a sober man.
But where, meanwhile, were the "plodders,"
the snails, as he used to style them,.when he
likened himself to the hare? All in positions of
competence and ease, which he could never hope
to reach. They had gained in the long race,
though often and often he had frolicked past them
in derision. Man cannot always retain his
youth, and premature old age settles hard upon
him, even though he be a genius, who lives too
fast. Let the young and over-confident, the apt
and able, especially, beware how they waste
their lives and trifle with their powers. It is'
agreeable to astonish o'ne's friends, and to disap-
point one's foes ; but it is not safe to do it at
your own expense. Feeble old Justice Shallows
may chuckle over the irregularities of their
youth, but it is better,*while the page is fair, to
make no blurs upon it. It is very much to a
man's credit to reform from vice or dissipation,
bit it is better--as the good book advises us re-
specting contention-to leave such things off be-
fore they be meddled with. Hon. Thomas
Smith will tell you so, though he has been so
long, of later years, in good repute, that his
younger friends do not remember when he stood
otherwise. Genius, unguided by abiding princi-
ple, and unaccomanied by industry, is a dan-
gerous gift.


[IfxROM GLEASON'S PICTORIAL DtAWINO-ooM COMPANqION.)
THE CROSSED DOLLAR:
-0 R gw,-a
THE COUNTRY DEALER AND HIS CLERK.
BY SYLVANUS COBB, JR.

MR. ELIAS RANDALL kept one of those large
stores so common in flourishing country towns,
where, every article of proptree is bought from
the farmers round about, and where every kind
of goods usually needed in the country is kept
forsale. He was a sharp-featured, shrewd-looking
man, somewhat turned of- fifty, and hard as a
diamond at a trade. He could buy the best o
-pro4uce at the cheapest rates, and 'he could sell
his auction-bought goods at alarmingly high
prices. In short, he never failed to make a
round profit at both ends of a bargain. He did
not hesitate to overstep the'bounds of honesty
when he had a fair chance, though he always did
it in such a manner that his old adage " A bar
gain is a baiain " would safely shield him.
"Lyman," said he to his son, one day, a
young man some ,twenty years of age, and al-
most the counterpart of his father, save that he
showed more -recklessness of disposition, "did
you make a trade with farmer Jones ?"
Yes."
"What did you charge him for that sugar and
tea?-
"Ninepence for the sugar, and half a dollar,
for the tea. Made him believe 'twas extra nice,
you see.-
"That's right. And what did you 'charge
him for the coffee V"

AiAh, there I had him! I made the old man
believe 'twas extra old Java-charged him fifteen
cents."
"Pretty good, my son, only you might have
put on the half cent. You see you can make a
great point out of that.- When you come the
half cents over them they think you are shaving
closer down to cost. But you did very well,
Lyman. Now what did you allow Jones for his
beans ?"
"Seven an' sixpence."
"0, you shouldn't havA done that. A dol-
lar, or dollar an' ntnepence would have been
enough."
"But they were nice ones, father; carefully
picked and clean."-0
"You should have made him believe they
were poorer.",
"1But how 1"
" Why,when you found the old man had
beans to exchange for his goods, you should have
taken 'a handful of poor ones from one of our
barrels,vand watched your opportunity to scatter
them over the top of his. Don't you under-
stand 1"
"cYes, I see now., father."
" That's right. We must live and thrive, you
see, and he who makes the most, comes out bes
at the end. Always take advantage of a cus-

THE CROSSED DOLLAR.                                   85
tomer when you can, but be careful and keep the "You need not open your books this morning,

bright side out."
This was the way the father taught his son,
and how that son profited by it the sequel will
show.
" By the way, Lymah," continued the old
man, " I have discovered who it is that has been
robbing my money-drawer."
"1Ah !" uttered the son, turning at that mo-
ment to arrange a piece of calico, which didn't
need any fixing at all. "And who is it ?"
"Wilton Cunningham."
"Ishouldn't wonder in thts least. I never
liked the fellow, and I have often wondered
what made you keep him."               I
"I wouldn't have kept him, only that he is
such a remarkably smart book-keeper, and such
a beautiful writer, too. He aint fit to trade."
"No; you can never make him believe it's
right to drive a snug trade. 'But how did you
manage to detect him ?"
"I'll tell you," returned the old man. "Last
week I took particular notice of some silver'dol-
lars that were in the money-drawer, and, deter-
mined that I would, set a trap for the thief. I
took four of the pieces' and crossed them very
carefully, and in such a manner that one not ac-
quainted with the secret would not be likely to
notice it; then I put them back into' the drawer.
Next morning one of them was gone, and as all
our trade the day before had been barter or cre-'
dit, I knew that it could not have been given in
change. Of course my suspicions fell upon
Wilton, and I at once began to look about to see
where he had spent money, and I found' that he
had paid Mr. Willey for his mother's rent. I
went to Mr. Willey, and asked to see the money
Wilton had paid him, and I found my crossed
dollar among it. It's as plain as daylight."
"Certainly it is," said Lyman.   .
"There can be no doubt about it," added the
old man; in a confident tone, and then, with a
sarcastic sneer, he said: "His seeming honesty
is all the result of fear. He dares not make a
hold trade, but he can steal in the dprk, though."
Just then a customer entered, and while Mr.
1Randall was trading with him, Wilton Cunning-
hai came in. The latter was not over one-and-
twenty, and though "appearances are deceitful,"
yet it would be hard work to make a physiogno-
mist believe that he could be capable of theft.
The young clerk went immediately to his desk,.
and as soon as Mr. Randall was at liberty, he
joined him,

I

sir," said the trader.
The young man looked around in surprise.
"-Mr. Cunningham," continued Rapdall, "I
have discovered who it is that has been for so
long a time robbing my money-drawer."
"Ah I!"
"Yes, sir. I have trapped him, and you may
judge of my surprise upon finding it to be none
other than Wilton Cunningham."
"Do you mean me, sir ?" uttered the young
man, stepping down from his stool and boldly
facing his accuser.
"Of course I do, and I have proof of what I
say."
"No man, Mr. Randall, can produce a proof
of dishonesty in me."
"Not quite so fast, sir. Did you not pay to
Mr. Willey the rent for the house which your
mother occupies ?"
"I did, sir."
"And did you not give him this dollar ?"
asked Mr. Randall, producing the dollar he had
crossed.
''I might have done it, sir, for I paid him sev-
eral silver dollars."
" Ay,",returned the old man, with a sort of
triumphant look, "and that dollar was stolen
from my drawer last Wednesday night, and you
paid it away on the same night. Now, how came
you by it ?"
"If I paid it to Mr. Willey-"
"But you did pay it to him. He can swear
to that."
" Then, sir, I know not where I got it. I had
several of them. Some my mother has taken for
butter and cheese, and some I have laid away."
"Yes, some you have laid away I That dol-
lar, sir, you took from my drawer last Wednes-
day evening. You stole it I"
" Mr. Randall," said Wilton, in a tone of calm
indignity, "I -hardly know how to meet your
charge. To deny it would be only to contradict
you; but I do deny it, and I call on God to wit-
ness that I never, to my knowledge, wronged a
man to the amount of a cent. I shall see Mr.
Willey, sir."
"Do so. I will go with you at once."
Accordingly Mr. Randall and his clerk set off.
They found Mr. Willey, and that gentleman,
though he felt much friendship for the young
man, dould not but declare that the crossed dol-
lar had been received from him. Wilton could
not deny it; he had not noticed any particular


THE CROSSED DOLLAR.                  87\

marks upon the money he hid paid, and he could
only reiterate the assertion that he had not taken
it from his employer's drawer. He felt grieved
to see that a shade of suspicion rested upon the
face of Mr. Willey, and he then saw how strong
was the evidence against him. He turned away
to hide the tear that started from his eye, and his
heart swelled with a painful emotion.
" Is 'Squire Bullard at home ?" asked Mr.
Randall, after the facts in the case had been auf-
ficiently discussed.  ^
"No. He's gone down to Portland, but he'll
be at home to-night," returned Mr. Willey.
" Good heavens! Mr. Randall, you do not
mean to make a legal investigation of this case?"
cried Wilton, turning pale and trembling like an
aspen.
"Most assuredly I do," calmly returned the
trader. "If you are innocent you will have no-
- thing to fear.",
"And suppose I cannot prove that innocence ?"
" That's just what I'm afraid of," half ironi-
cally returned Randall.
"0 God !" ejaculated the youth, clasping his
hands together in tortured'agony. "What have
I done that I should come to this ?"
Mr. Willey began to show evident signs of re-
pentance that he Jiad been instrumental in bring-
ing this about, and as liandall noticed it, he
made haste to cut the meeting short.
"You need not go back to the store with me,"
he said to his clerk, "but I shall see you this
evening."
Wilton Cunningham turned his steps home
ward, but his walk was slow and sad. He knew
the disposition of Mr. Randall, that he was hard
hearted, grasping, avaricious, and capable ol
doing anything that might answer his own ends
but he knew not then all the ends the trader ha
in view-ends which will be easily understoo
by a slight conversation at the store.
" Lyman," said Mr. Randall, after he had re
turned from Mr. Willey's, "I've got young
Cunningham hard and 'fast. The evidence I
clear, and if Bullard gets home before dark,'II
have him examined and bound over for trial
this very night."
- But you don't'really mean to try Wilton fo
thet, do youi" asked Lyman.
"Of course I do, Do you suppose : ma
shall rob we with ishpunity "
"But you might tur him off, father, andl kee
back hislatkquarter's salary."T,
-" You don't know all, Lywan. The youn

fellow might have been likely, hadn't this thing
have turned up, to have proved a angerous
rival to us."
"How so, father ?"
"By setting up an opposition store."
"But he hasn't the capital "
"He can raise it, though. That old Jones
that was in here this morning has offered to lend
him two thousand dollars, and others have offer-
ed to advance him money if he will open a new
store."
"That would be rather dangerous business
for you," remarked Lyman, 'in a thoughtful
mood.
"But he 'wont, do it now," the old man re-
turned, with considerable satisfaction. "This
thing will shut him up."-
When Wilton reached his home, he found his
mother sitting in her front room, and he at once
told her all that had passed. She was horror-
struck, but not for a single instant did she enter-
tain a question with regard to the entire inno-
cence of her dear boy. She was confident that
all the money she had given her son towards
paying the rent she had received from Portland,
and that she had had it in her possession for
several weeks before.it was thus paid out.
The conversation between the mother and
child was long and earnest, but they could find
no clue to the. solving of the difficulty. All
looked dark and gloomy.
After dinner, Wilton put on his hat and took
a few turns in the garden. He seemed to be
struggling with 'some strong desire, and more
than once he laid his hand upon the latch of the
- gate, and then turned and went back again. At
f length he placed his hand upon his brow, and
muttered a few incoherent sentences to himself.
d When he looked up again, he was pale and sad,
d but appeared no longer undecided. He opened
the gate and passed out into the street, and turn-
ing to the left he walked away from the village.
g At the distance of half a mile, he came to a
s small white farm house,.where lived 1Mr. Drake,
l one of the thriftiest farmers in the town, and as
tl he turned up the pink-bordered walk that led to
the door, he was met by a happy,'laughing,
r beautiful girl whocaume running out to meet him.
"Why, what is the-matter, dear Wilton ?" she
in exclaimed, as se noticed the pallor that; oyer.
spread his features.
p   "Come into the house and I will tell you,"he
retpraed.-
g Alice Drake, took the young man by ihe hangd

I
4
21
4'
44'
444

and walked with lim up through the-garden.
When they reached the sitting-room, Wilton
Cunningham closed the dpor, and then taking a
seat, he drew Alice to his side, and told her all
that had transpired. His voice was firm, for he
had schooled himself to the task.
"And now," he' continued,*as he finished his
story, "I-have thought, Alice, that it would be
better for me to tell you this than to have it come
to you from other lips. I know not how it will
turh out, but I fear that I shall be unable to dis-
prove Mr. Randall's charge. In all probability
I shall this eveningbe called before 'Squire Bul-
lard for examination,, and the event cannot but
cast a foul stain upon my reputation. It is a
Painful thing to be situated thus, for others must
stiffer besides myself; but you, Alice, I would
free from-"
Wilton hesitated and wiped a tear from his
eye, but he soon gained his self-possession,
though his voice faltered as he continued:
" You know our^ relations, dear Alice, but if
this stain falls upon me, I must. release you
from your vows. One so pure as you should
not be united with a man upon whose name even
a suspicion of crime can fasten itself. It is like
taking my life itself thus to-"
" Hold, Wilton," uttered the fair girl, who
had managed thus far to keep back her tears.
"Are you guilty of this thing ?"
"It is cruel to ask me that, Alice."
"I ask it, nevertheless."
"As there is a God who hears me now, the'
thought, even, of such a crime never entered my
mind. The person does not live who can say
with truth that I ever wronged him yr her."
"I believe you," returned Alice. laying her
hand upon Wilton's shoulder and gazing affec-
tionately into his face. "I know you, and know-
ing you as I do, I shall never forsake you.
When I promised to be yours for life, I did it
upon mature'deliberation, nor did I mean that
the first time the cold breath of slander or sus-
picion fell upon you, that I should throw you
off. "
"Noble, generous girl I" murmured Wilton,
as he wound his arm itbout her, "this takes
away half the sting; but you must remember
well what you do." -
" I know what I would do, Wilteois  Ah, if I
could forsake you in your trouble, how unwor,
thy should I be of the sacred oice of wife!
But tell me, have you no suspicious? You say
that for scne time varied smel muas of money
have been taken from Randall'e drawer."

" Yes, dearest; for over a year there have
frequently been discrepancies between our cash
record and the- amount in the drawer; but, in
many cases,-it has been the result of Mr. Ran-
dall's own carelessness in taking money during
the day for small purchases without giving a
minute of it; but, in some instances, I know
that money has been stolen."
" And have you no suspicions of who took
it ?" asked lice, with much earnestness.
"I do ntknow who took it, and it would be
ungenerous to tell of mere suspicions."
" Well, I have my suspicions," said Alice.
"I was in the store after you went away to sup-
per last Wednesday evening, and I waited some.
time for you to come back, but I got tired; so I
came away without seeing lou."
" Well," uttered the young man, in almost
breathless axiidety, "did you see anything out of
the way '"
' Not that I know of; but, while I was there,
I saw Mr. Randall go away from the desk where
you write, and put some heavy pieces of silver
into the money-drawer, and when he went out
of the store, I went too, for I did not like to re-
main after he had gone."*'
"That was probably the money he marked,
and it was after he had gone home that that mo-
ney was taken, for when the drawer - was taken
out of the safe, the next morning, he says it was
gone; and it was after that, too, that I paid hir.
Willey."
For some time Alice Drake sat in deep thought.
Her fingers' ends were placed upon her brow,
and weighty ideas seemed revolving in her mind.
At length she raised her head, and in a hopeful
tone, she said:
" You have many friends, Wilton, and some
who may help you in this emergency. I will
myself seek them. Ah, there goes 'Squire Bul-
lard now. You had better return to your own
cottage, and, trust me,' a woman's wit may be a
match for them all."
"But I cannot consent to this, Alice, that you
shouldl-"
"Let me have my own way this time," inter-
'-upted Alice, " and I assure you that you shall
not often find me so stubborn. The merest ac-
cident in-the world may'turn the whole current
of affairs."
" Well, be it as you like," returned Wiltpn,
as he arose from his-seat, "though it will be a
lucky accident that nettles this in ay favor,
though God knows it would be a just one."

THE CROSSED- DOLLAR.


THE CROSSED DOLLAR.

Shortly afterwards young Cunningham kissed
Aliceb, and then turned his steps towards -his
home. He had been in the house but a short
time before he saw Alice ride past alone in her
father's wagon. He had not yet dared to tell
his mother that he expected to be taken to a
lawyer's office, and rather than she should know
of it till the result had appeared, he resolved to
seek Mr. Randall ere he should be sent fdr, and
with this view he told his mother merely that he
was going to the store, and then left the house.
Before he reached the store, however, he met the
deputy-sheriff;yWho already held an order for his
arrest, Mr. Randall having entered a complaint.
It was not until after dark that Wilton Cun
ningham was conveyed to the office of Mr.,Bul-
lIkd, and'when he arrived he found not only his
accuser and his witness there, but also several of
the towns-people besides.
Those who know anything about the prelimi-
nary examination of a complaint in one of our
country lawyers' offices, understand pretty well
the latitude that is generally given to not only
witnesses, but also to plaintiff and defendant.
Mr. Bullard opened by reading Mr. Randall's
charge, to which Wilon, of 'course, responded
"not guilty." "Randall then made his statement
in full. His son, Ly-man, was called upon to
testify to the fact that money had frequently been
stolen from his drawer. Just as young Randall
was delivering his testimony with a brazen-faced,
off-handed manner, old farmer Jones entered' the
office, followed by Alice Drake and Mark Loud,
the latter of whomwas a hostler in Mr. Willey's
stable.%
Randall felt uneasy when he saw Jones enter,
for he did not like the man at all; but Lyman
betrayed the most trepidation, and for why will
-shortly be seen.
Mr. Willey was then called upon for his evi-
dence, which he gave with precision and confi-
dence. '
" This thing looks rather dark," remarked
Mr. Bullard, bending a sort of compassionate
look upon Wilton.
"'Squire," said farmer Jones, in his usual
blunt way, rising slowly to his feet, "I don't
know much about your law regulations, but I
'spose you wouldn't have no objections to my
asking a few questions just about as I've a mind
. to'e"
" Certainly not," returned the lawyer, with an
. air bf deference, for farmer Jones was one of the
most honest, upright and influential men in the
town.

"Well, then, 'squire; 'bout an hour ago Miss-
Alice Drake come driving' up to my house, an'
asked me if I didn't remember of bein' in Ran-
dall's store last Wednesday night, an', of course,
I remember it, though I don't 'spose I should
ever have thought of it again in the world, if she
hadn't ave mentioned it. . Well, I come right'
down with her, and a tween us both we've got
up considerable of a story. Now, I should just
like to ask Mr. Randall where his son was Sun-
day 'fore last."
"  was at P-- Hill, to attend meeting all
day," returned Randall; but when he saw how
his son trembled, he evinced some Istrong mis-
givings on that point.
" Rayther guess you're mistaken on that
point," said Jones. "I saw him an' old Samp-
son's boy, with one of Mr. Willey's. wagons,
postin' off airly in the mornin' in another direc-
tion; an', if I aint mistaken, they spent a good
part of the day on Thompson's Pond a fishin'."
Mr. Randall turned sharply upon his son, and
asked if that was true. Lyman at first denied
the gentle insinuation, but, at length, he was
obliged to own it.
" Well, that's so much gained," continued
Jones and then, with lawyer-like tact, he turn-
ed to Mr. Willey. "Mr. Willey," said lie, "how
do you know that Wilton Cunningham gave you
that crossed dollar that Randall lost out of his
drawer ?"
"Because no one else paid 'me any such mo-
ney on that day, answered Willey.
"Where did you put that money when you
got itV-"
'In my drawer."
"And doesn't somebody else ever go to that
drawer?",,
"N~o one but Mark Loud."
"Well," continued Jones, "last Wednesday
night I left my horse in your shed, and after the
store was shut up I went after him, and just as I
was onhitchin' him, Mr. Lyman Randall steps
in and pays Mark Loud for-the horse he had the
Sunday before, though he didn't notice me when
he 'did it. When I turned into the street,'I saw
Alice Drake, an' I offered to carry her home,
though I had to go some distance out of my way.
As we were riding along, we got to speaking
about Randall, an' I told her all about Lyman's
ridin' off Sundays, an' that's the way she hap-
pened to hit on me in this case."
"But what has all this to do with my com-
plaint ?" asked Randall, in considerable passion.

Arl

THE CROSS]
"Only just this," returned Jones, with a pecu- I
liar leer:  It was your son that paid that
crossed dollar !
"It's a fact," said Mark Loud, hopping up
from his seat. "Lyman Randall paid it to me
for the horse, and I put it into the drawer wkh
some of the others, and if you'11 look on the
book, you'll find that I gave him credit for it."
1 "I remember now that I noticed the credit,"
said Mr. Willey; "but there was only the same
number of silver dollars that I put in there my-
self, for I counted them."
"Because I gave one of them to Sam Kendall
in change for a two dollar bill," explained Mark,
"and that was before I took the dollar of
Lyman.."'
And how do you know that it was the
crossed dollar you took of my son ?" asked Mr.
Randall.
Because I took particular notice of it," re-
turned Loud.    You see when the Portland
stage got in, and after the horses were put up,
the driver wanted to 'odd and even' with me to
see who should carry the mail up to the post
office; so I took out this dollar-for I hadn't
had a chance to carry it into the office,-and I
agreed to let him guess on the date of that, and
when I come to look at the figures, I found a lit-
tle cross that looked as though-it had been cut
in with a knife, and one end of it came right
down to the date. If that's the dollar that Ran-
dall's got, you'll.find it just as I've said."
. This produced quite a marked sensation ; and
when Mr. Randall was asked to show the dol-
lar, he freely acknowledged, though with accu-
imulated wrath, that there was no need of it.
"Then, of course, you withdraw your com-
plaint," said Bullard.
" Yes," returned Randall; and then turning

ED DOLLAR.                               89
savagely upon his son, he hissed out from be-
tween his clenched teeth: "Lyman, you scamp,
you shall suffer for this. Come, sir, and I'll
teach-"
But the boy did not choose to hear any more,
for quickly turning at bay, he retorted:'
"Now look here, father, you'd better keep
dark, for I think I can tell some things as well as
you !"
Elias Randall was fumbled in a moment, and
like a whipped cur, he turned to leave the office;
but before lie did so, he herd farmer Jones
remark:
" Like father like son. The boy's learned his
lesson well!"-
There were tears in Wilton Cunningham's
eyes when he took Alice by the hand, but he
could not speak; nor could she, for her excite-
ment had been too great; but of on  thing I am
sure: in less than two short months, they had
spoken to some purpose, for they had become
one for life, and on the next Monday afterwards,
Wilton opened a large store with a freely-loaned
capital of eight thousand dollars.
Just seven years have passed away since then.
Mr. Randall lost all his customers in less than a
year after the opening of the new store, for,
through Cunningham's honest trading, the peo-
ple found how shamefully they had been cheat-
ed, and the latter has not only cleared enough to
refund his borrowed capital, but he has gained a
large circle of true-hearted friends, such as true
honest worth never fails to win. Lymain Ran-
dall was just in time to take the first 'Oregon
fever;" while his father went to Canada, and en-
tered into horse-trading, but no one ever bought
a horse of him the second time, and he has sure-
ly lived to lappieciate the old adage : "He who
swims in small sins, will sink in greater sorrows."


-THE HUMBLE

*4

[PROM GLEASON'S PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION.]
THE HUMBLED PHARISEE.
BY T. S. ARTHUR.
"WHAT was that ?" exclaimed Mrs. Andrews, ' "Why not remain? What is an outrage,

to the lady who was seated next to her, as a sin-
gle strairi of music vibrated for a few moments
on the atmosphere..
"A violin, I suppose," was answered.
"A violin 1"  An expression almost of horror
came into the countenance of Mrs. Andrews.
"It ein't be possible."
It was possible, however, for the sound came
again, prolonged and varied.
" What does it mean?" asked Mrs. Andrews,
looking troubled, and moving. uneasily in her
'chair.
" Cotillons, I presume," was answered, care-
lessly.      .
"Not dancing, surely I"
But, even as Mrs. Andrews said this, a man
entered, carrying in his hand a violin. There
was an instant movement en the part of several
younger members of the company; partners
were chosen, and ere thew pious Mrs. Andrews
had time to collect her suddenl y bewildered
thoughts, the music had struck up, and the
dancers were in motion.
" I can't remain here.  It's an outrage 1"
said Mrs. Andrews, making a motion to rise.
The lady by whom she was sitting compre-
hended now more clearly her state of mind, and]
laying a hand on her atm, gently restrained her.

Mrs. Andrews ?" she asked.
" Mrs. Burdick knew very well that I was a
member of the church." The lady's manner
was indignant.C
"All your friends know that, Mrs. Andrews,"
replied the lady. A third person might have de-
tected in her tones a lurking sarcarm.~ But this
was not perceived by the individual addressed.
"But what is wrong?"'1
- " Wrong!   Isn't that - wrong ?"  And she
glanced towards the mazy wreath of human
figures already circling on the floor. "I could
not have believed it of Mrs. Burdick; and she
knew that I was a-professor of religion."
"She doesn't expect you to dance, Mrs. An-
drews," said the lady.
"But she expects me to countenance the sin
and folly by my presence."
"Sin and folly are strong terms, Mrs. An-
drews."
" I know they are, and I use them advisedly.
I hold it a sin to dance." .-
"I know wise and good people -who hold a
different opinion."
"Wise and good I"    Mrs. Andrews spQke
with strong disgust. "I wouldn't give much
for their wisdom and goodness-not I 1"
" The true qualities of men and women are

"4
'4
"I

4

I
I

best seen at home. When people go abroad,
they generally change; their attire-mental as
well as bodily. Now, I have seen the home-life
of certain ladies, who do not think it sin to
dance, and it was full of the heart's warm sun-
shine; and I have seen the home-life of certain
ladies who held dancing to be sinful, and I have
said to myself, half shudderingly: 'What child
can breathe that atmosphere for years, and not
grow up with a clouded spirit, and a fountain of
bitterness in the heart!"'
" And so you mean to say," Mrs. Andrews
spoke with some asperity of manner, "that danc-
ing makes people better ?-Is, in fact, a means of
grace ?"
"No. I say no suoh thing."
Then what do you mean to say? I draw
the only conclusion I can make."
" One may grow better or worse from danc-
ing," said the lady. "All will depen l on the
spirit in which the recreation is indulged. In it-
self the get is innocent."
Mrs. Andrews shook her head.
"In what does its sin consist ?"
"It is an idle waste of time."
"Can you say nothing more of it ?"
"I could, but delicacy keeps me silent."
"Did you ever dance ?"
"Me ? What a question! No 1"
"I have danced often. And, let me say, that
your inference on the score of indelicacy is al-
together an assumption."
"Why everybody admits that."
"Not by any means."
"If'the descriptions of some of the midnight
balls and assemblies that I have heard, of the
waltzing, and all that, be true, then nothing
could be more indelicate,-nothing more injuri-
ous to the'-young and innocent.'
" All good things become evil in their per-
verseness," said the lady. "' And I will readily
agree with you, that dancing is perverted, and
its use, as a means of social recreation, most
sadly changed into what is injurious. The same
may be said of church going."
",You shock me," said Mrs. Andrews. "Ex-
cuse me, but you are profaine."
I "I trust not. For true religion-for the holy,
things of the church-I trust that I have the
most profound reverence. . But let me prove
what I say, that even church going may become
evil."
"I am all attention,'" said the incredulous
Mrs. Andrews.

D PHARISEE.                           91
"You can bear plain speaking."
"Me!" The church member looked sur-
prised.
"Yes, you."
Certainly I can. But why do you ask ?"
"To put you on your guard,-nothing more."
"Don't fear but what I can bear all the plain
speaking you may venture upon. As to church
going being evil, I am ready to prove the nega-
tive against any allegations you can advance..
So speak on."
After a slight pause, to collect her thoughts"
the lady said:
"There has been a protracted meeting in Mr.
B-'s church."
"9I know. And a blessed time it was."
"You attended ?"
"Yes, every day; and greatly was my soul
refreshed and strengthened."
"Did you see Mrs. Eldridge there ?"
"Mrs. Eldridge? No indeed, except on Sun-
day. She's too worldly-minded for that."
" She has a pew in your church." .
" Yes; and comes every Sunday morning be-
cause it is fashionable and respectable to go to
church.  As for her religion, it isn't worth
much, and will hardly stand fire at the last
day."
"Why Mrs. Andrews!     You shock me!
Have you seen into her heart? Do you know
her purposes ? Judge not, that ye be not judged,
is the divine injunction."
" A  tree is known by- its fruit," said Mrs.
Andrews, who felt the rebuke, aind slightly
colored.
"True; and by their fruits shall ye know
them," replied the lady. "But come, there are
too many around us here for this earnest conver-
sation. We will take a quarter of an hour to
ourselves in one of the less crowded rooms. No
eone will observe our absence, and you will -be
freed from the annoyance of these dances.?
The two ladies quietly retired frorn the draw-
ing-rooms. As soon as they were more alone,
the last speaker resumed.
"By their fruits ye shall know them.' Do
men gather'grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
Let me relate what I saw and heard in the faini-
ly of two ladies during this protracted meeting.
One of these ladies was Mrs. Eldridge. Iwas
passing in her neighborhood about four o'clock,
and as I owed her a call, thought the opportuni-
ty a good onie for returning it. On entering, my
ears caught the blended music of a piano, and

0

f


92                 THE HUMBLED PHARISEE.

children's happy-voices. From the front parlor,I
through the partly opened door, a sight, beauti-
ful to my eyes, was revealed. Mrs. Eldridge was
seated a~the instrument, her sweet babe asleep,
on one arm, while, with a single hand, she was
touching the notes of a familiar air, to which
four children were dancing. A more innocent,
loving, happy group I have never seen. For'
nearly ten niinutes I , gazed upon them unob-
served, so interested that I forgot the question-
able propriety of my conduct, and during that
time, not an unkind word was uttered by one of
the children, nor did anything occur to mar the
harmony of the scene. It was a sight on which
angels could have looked, nay, did look with
pleasure; for, whenever hearts are turned to
good affections, angels are present.. The music
was suspended, and the dancing ceased, as I pre-
sented myself. The mother greeted me with a
happy smile, and each of the children spoke to her
visitor with an air at once polite and respectful.
"'I've turned nurse for the afternoon, you
see,' said Yrs. Eldridge, cheerfully. 'It's Alice's
day to go out, and I never like to trust our little
ones with the chambermaid, who is n't over fond'
of children. We generally have a good time on
these occasions, for I give myself up to them en-
tirely. They've read, and played, and told sto-
ries, until tired,-and now I've just brightened
them up, body and mind, with a dance.' .
"1And bright and happy they all looked.
"'Now run up into the nursery for a little
while, and build block. houses,' said she, 'while
I have a little pleasant talk with my friend.
That's good children. And I want you to be
very quiet, for dear little Eddy is fast asleep, and
I'm going to lay him in his crib.'
"Away went the children, and I heard no more
of them for the half hour during whi6h I staid.
With the child in her ,arms, Mrs. Eldridge went'
up to her chamber, and I went with her. As
she was laying him in the crib, I took from the
mantle a small porcelain figure of a -kneeling
child, and was examining-it, when she turned to
me. 'Very beautiful,' said I. 'It is,' she re-
plied. 'We call it our Eddy, saying his prayers.
There is a history attached to it. Very early I
teach my little ones to say an evening prayer.
First impressions are *ever wholly effaced; I,
therefore seek to implant, in the very dawning
of thought, an idea of ,God, ad our dependence
on him for life and all our blessings, knowing
that, if duly fixed, this idea will ever remain,
and be the vessel, in after years, for the recep-

tion of truth flowing down from the great
source of all truth. -Strangely enough, my little
Eddy,. so sweet in temper as he was, steadily re-
fused to say his prayers. I tried in every way
that I could think of to induce him to kn.eel
with the other children, and repeat a few simple
words ; but no, his aversion thereto was uncon-
querable. I at last grew really troubled about
it. There seemed to be a vein in his character
that argued no good. One day I saw this kneel-
ing child in a store. With the'sight of it came
the thought of how I might use it. I bought
the figure, and did not show it to Eddy until he
was about going to bed. The effect was all I
had hoped to produce. He looked at it for some
moments earnestly, then' dropped on his little
knees, clasped his white hands, and murmured
the prayer I had so long and so vainly strove to
make him repeat.'
b- " Tears were in the eyes of Mrs. Eldridge, as
she uttered the closing words. I felt that she
was a true mother, and loved her children with
a high and holy love. And now, let me give'
you a picture that strongly contrasts with this.
Not far from Mrs. Eldridge, resides a lady, who
is remarkable for her devotion to the church,
and, I am compelled to say, want of charity to-
wards all who happen to differ with her-more
particularly, if the difference involves church
matters. It was after sundown; still being in
the neighborhood, I embr ced the opportunity
to make a call. On ringing the bell, I heard,
immediately, a clatter ,of feet down the stairs
and along the passage, accompanied by chil-
dren's voices, loud and boisterous. It was some'
time before the door was opened, for each of the
four children, wishing to perform the office, each
resisted the others' attempts to admit the visitor.
Angry exclamations, rude outcries, ill names,
and struggles for the advantage continued, until
the cook, attracted from  the kitchen by the
noise, arrived at the scene of contention, and,
after jerking the children so roughly as to set
the two youngest crying, swung it open, and I
entered. On gaining the parlor, I asked for the
mother of these .children.
"'She is n't at home 1' said the cook.
"'She's gone to church,' said the oldest of
the children.
S"Iwish she'd stayat home,' remarked cook
in a very disrespectful way, and with a manner
that showed her to be much fretted in her mind.
'It's Mary's day out, and she knows I can't do
anything with' the children. Such children I

never saw! They don't mind a word you -say,
and quarrel so among themselves, that it makes
me sick to hear them.'
"At this moment a headless doll struck
against the side of my neck. It had been thrown
by one child at another; missing her aim, she
gave me the benefit of her evil intention. At
this, cook lost all patience, and seizing the of-
'fending little one, boxed her soundly, before I
could interfere. The language\ used by that
child, as she escaped from the cook's hands, was
shocking. It made my flesh creep !
"'Did I understand you to say that your
mother had gone to church?' I asked of the
oldest child.
"'(Yes, ma'am,' was answered. 'She 's been
every day this week.  There 's a protracted
meeting.'
"'Give me that book!' screamed a child, at
this moment. Glancing across the room, I saw
two of the little ones contending for possession
of a'large family Bible, which lay upon a small
table. Before I could reach them, for I started
forward, from ,an impulse of the moment, the
table was thrown over, the marble top broken,
and the cover torn from the sacred volume."
The face of Mrs. Andrews became instantly
of a deep crimson. Not seeming to notice this,
her friend continued.
"As'the table fell, it came within an inch of
striking another child on the bead, who had seat-
ed himself on the floor. Had it done so, a frac-
tured skull, perhaps instant death, would have
been the consequence."
Mrs.*Andrews caught her breath, and grew
very palp. The other continued.
"In the midst of the confusion that followed,'
the father came nome.1

"'Where is your mother?' he asked of one of
th'e children.
"'Gone to church,' was replied.
"'0 dear!' I'can hear his voice now, with it,
tone of hopelessness,-' This church-going ma-
nia is dreadful. I tell my wife that it is all wrong.
That her best service to God is to bring up her
children in the love of what is good and true,-
in filial obedience and' fraternal affection. But
it avails not.'
"And now, Mrs. Andrews," continued the
lady, not in the least appearing to notice the
distress and confusion of'her over-pious friend,
whom she had placed upon the rack, " When
God comes to make up his jewels, and says t&amp;
Mrs. Eldridge, and also to this mother whW
thought nore of church-going 'than of her pre-
cious little ones, Where are the children I gave
.you? which do you thibk will be most likely to
say, Here they are, not one is lost ?"
"Have I not clearly shown you that even
church-going- may be perverted into an evil?
That piety may attain an inordinate growth,
while charity is, dead at the root? Spiritual
pride; a vain conceit of superior goodness, be-
cause of the observance oF certain forms and cere-
monies, is the error into which too many devout
religionists fall. But God sees not as man
seeth. He looks into the heart, and judges his
creatures by the motives thpt rule them."
And, as she said this, she arose, the silent
and rebuked Mrs. Andrews, whose own picture
had been drawn, following her down to the gay
drawing rooms.
Many a purer heart than that of the humbled
Pharisee, beat there beneath the bosoms of hap.
py maidens, even though thcir feet were rising
and falling in time to witching melodies.

THE HUMBLED PHARISEE. -            910,

:4

all


[FROM GLEASON'S PICTORIAL, DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION-)
THE WALBEIDGE FAMILY.,
A THANKSGIVING STORY.

BY MRS. CAROLINE ORNE.
THE last Thursday in J1ovember had beeiR farm-houses, constituted a delightful premonition
set apart by the governor of Massachusetts, for -to the juveniles, in an especial manner-of the
the celebration of Thanksgiving. The long In- nature of the feast which mightsbe expected in
dian summer, with its golden haze floating in the articles of cakes and pastry, before which, in
the air and tinging the purple mantle ofthe dis- theiO estimation, the turkey, chickens, sirloin of
tant hills, had ripened and mellowed the fruits beef, and the never-to-be omitted boiled dish,
of the earth to a degree of unusual perfection. dwindled into comparative insignificance. But
The mild and balmy weather had, however, sud- among all the kitchens of the comfoi table fartu-
denly given place to a hard frost. Those accus- houses of Westbrook, none exhibited so abun-
tomed to mark -with care the atmospherical dant an array of edibles, and of such excellent
changes, prognosticated a snow storm, and as it quality, as the one where the wife and daughters
was stated in the almanac, that "snow might be of Esquire Walbridge were preparing for the
expected about these days," the inhabitants of festival.
the pleasant and retired county town of West. Esquire Walbridge was'the richest farmer in
brook confidently anticipated - that sleighing the place, and an example of the dignity of labor
would be added to the other enjoyments of the was truly exhibited in himself, and in his wife,
time-honored festival,                     and daughters. They had no idea of its being
Preparations for its celebration were com- ungenteel, or beneath them, in any respect, to
menced early in the morning on the Monday minister to their own necessities, and those of
preceding, and the baskets of rosy-cheeked ap- the family; yet they had their own ideas of ex-
pies and snowy eggs, the lumps of fresh butter elusiveness, and though either of the daughters
and bowls of delicious cream, and above all, the would have accepted a freeholder for a husband,
large, golden-rind pumpkins, displayed on the who was obliged to toil early and late, o'r the
dressers and tables of the ample kitchens of the son of a farmer, who had. nothing -in his own

I

right, if he remained at home and worked on
his father's farm, a young man who was obliged
to hire out by the month or year would have
been considered, as filling an inferior station in
society, aid, consequently, beneath what they
had a right to expect in forming a matrimonial
alliance.
Mark Thornton was what, in common par-
lance, was termed Esquire Walbridge's "hired
man."   He would, therefore-though one of the
best educated, the most intelligent and finest
looking young men in the place-have been
thought arrogant and presuming, had it been
suspected that he aspired to the hand of one of
his employer's daughters. Yet it was a-iepe of
arrogance which he did venture to indulge in his
secret hart; and, though he loved silently, the
fair object .of his devotion knew it full well.
There were four daughters-Jgie, Rebecca, Ann
and -Ella--the last being still a child. Rebecca,
the second daughter, was the one who had
awakened the admiration of Mark ,Thornton.
At first, he being 'onlylthe "hired man," she
looked on him with some disdain; but his hand-
some face, superior intelligence, and manly, in-
dependent demeanor, were not without their in-
fluence, and she soon, without being exactly con-
scious of it, began to reciprocate the sentiments
with which he regarded her. Not a single mem-
ber of the family suspected anything of the kind.-
Had Esquire Walbridge himself done so, he
would not have hired him a single day after the
expiration of the time for which he had engaged
him. Mark, for the.present, had no mind that
he should know it. He preferred having the
privilege of living under the same roof with the
beautiful Rebecca, and was willing to " bide his
time;" for he felt that the season was not far dis.
tant, when he would ask for her hand without
danger of being repulsed.
" Let me see," said Mrs. Walbridge, as she
stood at a table paing the rind from the long,
curved slices of pumpkin, which Rebecca was
cutting from an uncommonly-fine specimen of
the indispensable edible, "let me see how many
we' shall have to dinner Thanksgiving day.
There will be John and his wife and three chit-
dren, paniel and his wife and their little Jenny,
your Aunt, Hannah West and Uncle Daniel
Walbridge. Then, if the day is pleasant, grand-
father and grandmother Walbridge will come."
"Which will make twelve," said Rebeeca.'
"And then, you know, we -always ask the
Widog Page and her daughter."

"And it will be no more than common polite-
ness toinvite the schoolmaster," said Jane.
" It will be well enough to invite him, as he is
a stranger in the place," said Mrs. Walbridge.
"What is his name ?"
"Bateman," replied Jane.
"I should n't wonder," said her mother, "if
he was a son of old Major Bateman. I was well
acquainted with the major when I was a girl. He
was as smart and enterprising a young man, as
one you'll see in a thousand. His father gave
him a lot of wild land, when he was twenty-one,
and he went right to work and cleared a dozen
acres of it-half of which he sowed to rye, and
planted the other half to corn. In the fall, he
took five hundred dollars in cash for what be
raised, which gave him a fine start in the world,
and encouraged him to go on as he had begun.
New, you see, if he had done as Mark Thornton
has, hired out by the month or year, it would
have taken him a long time to earn what he did
in a single year."
'" You know that Mark had no rich father to
give him a lot of land," said Rebeeca.
"That is tme; but I don't believe if he had,
that he would have been enterprising enough to
have cleared it. Mark is a civil, industrious
young man, but he has not got enterprise enough
to suit me. I'll tell you, gils, what I have been
thinking of."
" What is it, mother ?" said Ann.
"I've been thinking that Mark Thornton and
Polly Shores, Mrs.'Dresser's hired girl, would
make a good match."
"Why, mother,"said Rebecca, "Polly Shores
is at least five years older than Mark, andis just
as plain as she can be. Besides, her education
is very poor; she can read and write, and that
is all."
" Well, she is a good working girl, as ever
was, and according to my mind, would- make,
Mark a first-rate wife."
" Why, Mark has as good an education as any
young man in the place," said Rebecca, "and is
better qualified to teach the school than Mr.
Bateman. Brother John.who is one of the ex-
amining committee, says he is."  a
" You had better mind, Rebecca," said Ann,
"or we shall begin to think you have taken a
fancy to Mark."
"Well, you needn't think so," said Rebecca,
bending a little lower over the pumpkin she was
cutting to conceal her heightened color.
"Come, I guess we shan't reckon up how

THE WALBRIDGE FAMILY.

95


96       ,                  THE WALBR
many we are going to have to dine.Thanksgivitig
day, at this rate," said Jane.
"I guess so, too," said Mrs. Walbridge.
" We had got up to fifteen," said Ann, "in-
cluding the Widow Page and her daughter, and
the schoolmaster."            I
" Which, with our own family, will make
twenty-three," said Mrs. Walbridge.  "And
then we some expect your Uncle David and his
family from Newburyport, which will make the
number up to thirty. Well, if there should be
fifty, we shall have enough and to spare. Here
comes Mark, with another pumpkin. I am glad
he has brought it, for the kettles will hold an-,
other just as well as not."
"I've just seen Sydney Philips," said Mark,
as he placed the pumpkin on the table. "Here,
Rebecca, let me cut it in half' for you--I'm
strongerdn the hand thlan you are."
".Ann, did you hear what Mark said about
Sydney Philips ?" said Jane.
"iI rather think she did, by her blushing so,"'
remarked Rebecca.
"I thought he was teaching school somewhere
this vacation," said Mrs. Walbridge.
"So he is," replied Mark, "but he thought he
would spend Thanksgiving week at home."'
"iSydney is almost through college, is n't he,
Mark ?' inquired Mrs. Walbridge.
"1He has only one more year to stay, and he
then intends coming home and studying divinity
with his father."
"1So I may have a minister for .a brother-in-,
law," said Jane.
"And I may have a-merchant for one," said
Ann.
It was now Jane's turn to blush, there having
been some "love passages " between.her and a
young merchant of Boston, by the name of
Danbury.
"Don't you want some oven-wood ?" asked
Mark, having finished cutting the pumpkiri.
"No, not to-day," said Mrs. Walbridge. "All
we calculate on doing to-day is to stew.and sift
the pumpkin, prepare the minced meat for the
pies, ,and such kind of chores.  To-morrow
morning, we shall, begin to bake, bright and
early."
"And wont you bake me a pie-crust bird ?"
said little Ella, who, with her brother Charley,
had just come in from the barn, where they had
been hunting hens' nest.
"cAnd me a pie-crust horse ?" said.Charley.
" I declare, I am afraid Charley, if he lives,

THV*WALBRIDGE FAMILY.'

IDGE FAMILY.

will be a horse-jocky," said Mrs. Walbridge'
"His mind is always running upon horses."
" So was mine, when I was of his age," said
Esquire Walbridge, who, at this moment, entered
the kitchen. " And to confess the truth, I've al-
ways had a liking for a good horse. I talk of
riding over to Smith's Corner, mother. Don't
you want to send for some little knick-knacks
for Thanksgiving ?"
"Well, I don't know-we are pretty well pro-
vided for, I believe, but you may get a few nut-
megs and cloves, if you have a mind to."
-" We ought to havea dozen pounds of nice
raisins," said Jane. "Those we have in the
house aint first rate."
"Is th it all?" said the 'Squire. "Why, I
expected you would want a whole wagon load
of one'thing and another."
"La, we can't eat everything," said Mrs.
Walbridge. "4fr store room/ is full of flour,
rice, sugar, coffee and' tea, to say nothing of
such articles as are i-aised on the farm."
"I aRi glad we are so well provided for," said
he, " and it reminds me of those who are not so
well off. Hadn't I better take along some arti-
cles in my wagon, to help a few poor families to
keep Thanksgiving.?"
" Yes, you had certainly. I ain 'glad you
thought of it. Wait a few minutes, and I will
put up a lot of flour and sugar and other neces-
saries for Mr..Green's family and a few others.
He has been sick all the fall, and finds 'it hard
getting along."
"If I see anybody while I am gone that I take
a fancy to invite to dine with us Thanksgiving
day, I shall," said he, taking up a basket she
had been packing in one hand, and a pretty
large bag of flour in the other.
"Do, do," said 'his wife, "for the girls and I
have been reckoning up how many we expect,
and if they all come, there will only be thirty,
including our own family."
"That aint enough for people that have as
much house room as we have., I'll try and hunt
up a few more," said the 'Squire.
"Perhaps," said 1Irs. Walbridge, "Sydney
Philips would come, if you invited him. He is
at home, Mark says.'      -
"No,no, it wont do to break in upon a family
circle in that way. If we invite Sydney, we
must invite Mr. Philips and his wife too." '
"Well, father, supposing we shodd invite
them," said Mrs. Walbridge. " I think they
would like to come, and I am sure that we,
should all be glad to have them."

IN'S "I

"There was a young gentleman came home
with Sydney," said Charley. "I was down by
Mr. Philips's, and saw them both when they got
out of the stage."
"How did he look ?" Inquired Ann.
"0, he was dressed up as grand as could be."
"Did he look as well as Sydney ?" asked
Rebecca..*
"Yes, I guess he did. His eyes were as black
and bright us 6ur Mark's."
"Well," said Esquire Walbridge, "if they
have a visitor, he must be included in the invi-
tation."t
"To be sure he must," was the reply of his
Wife.
"It begins to snow-it begins to snow !" ex-
claimed Charley, as he came into the back door,
with a basket of chips in his hand, Wednesday
morning; and he fairly danced for joy-an exer-
cise in which little Lila joined with a hearty
good will.
A few large flakes of snow had, indeed, begun
to fall, which gradually growing smaller and'
thicker, promised to fulfil the prophecy of those
who had foretold a snow-storm. A short snow-
storm would be most welcome; but should it
prove to be a long one-ah, there was the rub!
The snow continned to fall: during the day,
and many a pair of hl.git eyes looked forth into
the murky   r tie last thing before retiring for
the night; while Charley Walbridge went to bed
'witti a full determination to rise every half hour,
to watch the progress of the storm, having sol-
emnly promised 'ilila-the ddor of her bed-room
being left ajar for the purpose-that he would,
each time, infora her of the result of his obser-
vations. Unfortunately, he had but one nap,
and that lasted till after sunrise the following
morning.
" The storm is over, Ella," said he, having
dressed himself in great haste.
"Over so soon ?" said she, rubbing her eyes.
"Why, it isn't half an hour yet, since we went
to bed-is it?"
" Only think of the sound, sleep of childhood,"
said Mrs. Walbridg", who had overheard what
was said by the ebildren.
"Yes," replied her husband, "but labor will
produce sound sleep, too, as I have proved dur-
ing a life of fifty years. Well, girls," said he,
to his three eldest daughters, who now made
'their 'appearance, " the double sleigh and span
of grays Will have ,to be brought into service to-
day. I guess there are six inches of good rolid
snow, and as smooth as the house floor."

The religious services were to commence at
eleven, and it must be confessed that the girls
felt no little pleasure in having so good an op-
portunity to display their winter bonnets, and
other such tasteful paraphernalia as had been
prepared for the occasion. There was a fine
show, of waving plumes and fluttering 'ribbons;
and the faces that looked out from the tasteful
bonnets were fresh and fair as June roses spark-
ling with dew. Even Mrs. Walbridge did 'not
form an exception. At -forty-five, bright'chest-
nut hair, curled according to the approved
fashion of earlier days, formed a rich shade
round a countenance lit up by dark, beaming
eyes, and bright with the roseate hues of health.
Rebecca, however, was the most beautiful of
them all. There was a charmingabandon in
all her movements and attitudes, which, without
the least consciousness on her part, gave to her
appearance a grace and- elegance perfectly
inimitable.
When the double sleigh, drawn by the'spirited
horses-which sported their long strings of silver-
toned bells, as proudly as a lady would her dia-
mond necklace-dashed up to the church door,
Sydney Philips and a young man, who was a
stranger, sbod in the porch. He was a fellow
student, by name, Robert Vinton, and the same
who had accompauiied him home.
"By the red lip of Hebe, that is a fine-looking
girl, Sydney," said he, as Rebecca Walbridge
sprang lightly from the, sleigh.
gYes, they are all three of them fine-looking
girls," was Sydney's reply, as ie sought to
catch the eye of Ann.
Esquire Walbridge, who now entered the
porch, shook hands very cordially with his
young friend Sydney, who introduced Vinton to
him. The 'squire took the opportunity to invite
them to dine at his house, an invitation which
was gladly accepted.
Mark Thornton, who stood near, without be-
ing able to assign a reason satisfactory to him-
self, did not feel pleased with young Vinton's
appearance. He was certainly what most people
would call handsome; his eyes, in a particular
manner, as little- Charley Walbridge had de-
scribed them, were very bright-as bright as
Mark's-but, at times) they shot forth a fiery,
gleaming light, very different from the clear, lus-
trous beams which gave life and animation to
the bronzed countenance of Thornton.
The Widow Page who, with her daughter,
had, according to arrangement, receivedan early

I


'I

98

THE WALBRIDGE FAMILY.

invitation to dine at the 'squire's, came at nine
o'clock in the morning, so that neither Mrs.
Walbridge nor one of her daughters would be
obliged to stay from church to prepare dinner.
When, therefore, the family returned, accompa-
nied by their two married sons and their families,
the pastor and his wife, together with Sydney
and young Vinton, everything was ready to
place upon the table., The parents of Esquire
Walbridge, also Uncle David and his family
from Newburyport, had already arrived, much
to the delight of the Walbridges, -who were
afraid they would not come.
Dinner was soon announced, and while Mr.
Philips, a gentleman with a mild- and benign
countenance, said grace, each one present stood
with reverent air and downcast eyes. The bless-
ing was rather long-at least, so thought those
whose appetites were peculiarly keen-but all
agreed that" it was very good, and very appro-
priate. It is true that, under different circum-
stances,'it might have .passed for a prayer, and
been thought rather long at that; but the good
pastor, in the benevolence of his heart, could
not think of passing over any one present with.
out a kindly mention, and he was prompted by
similar benevolent emotions to remember the
poor and destitute of his own country, and the
perishing heathen of distant lands.
When ample'justice had been done to the feast
of good things set beforethem, the younger por-
tion ,of the company were sobn assembled round,
a good fire in a large room by themselves, leav-
ing their seniors in possession of the parloiRo
discuss themes of grave and weighty import,
among which politics bore a prominent part.
Mark Thornton mingled with the young people
on terms of perfect equality. Even Esquire
Walbridge'and his wife did not consider it amiss
for him to be admitted to the social circle of
which their daughters formed a part, but for him
to marry one of them was not to be thought of.
Young Vinton began, at once, to be most as-
siduous in his attentions to the beautiful Rebecca.
Judging from the manner with' which she re-
ceived them, however, she did not imagine he
was conferring on her any particular honor. In-
stead of this, she evidently felt annoyed by them.
Mark Thornton watched him closely, and, as it
must be confessed, with a slight feeling of jeal.
ousy. Not that he distrusted Rebecca, but be-
cause he felt that Vinton was not worthy to be
admitted to her companionship, even for an
hour. Vinton, when he saw how closely he ob-

THE WALBRID

served him, felt vexed and irritated, and in a
voice loud enough to- be beard by all present,
asked Sydney Philips who that clown was, who
was admitted into the society of ladies and gen-
tlemen. Sydney rgddeped with shame at the
rudeness of one he had introduced as his friend,
and replied in a low voice:
s' We have no clowns in Westbrook," said he.
"With us, a tiller of the s6i1 is accounted hon-
orable."
" Honorable or dishonorable," said Vinton,
"I shall not associate on terms of equality with
that fellow."
Mark Thornton heard the remark, but would
not disturb the company by appearing to notice
it. Vinton found he had gone too far, and had
he seen the look of ilisdain which RebeceaWal-
bridge cast upon him, his vanity would not have-
been greatly flattered.. But she, as well as the
rest, seemed determined to forget Vinton's rude-
ness. Everything, to appearance, went on pleas-
antly, except that Vinton persisted in being ob-
trusively attentive to Rebecca.
After the company had gone, and Rebecca
Walbridge had retired to her. own room, she
missed a small, plain gold locket. It was one
that Mark had- given her, and the only present
he ever made her. As, at the same time, he
presented some trifles to each of the sisters, the
family did not consider it as a love-token. Nei-
ther did she, at the time, think of it in that light;
but latterly there had been cause for her to sus-
pect that the, presents to her sisters had been
made to prevent her from refusing the locket.
Though, at the time, she would have thought
him too presuming, since then, her appreciation
of his character, and with it, her feelings with
regard to him, in every respect, had uidergone a
great change. This little ornament, then, though
of iot much intrinsic value, was held in higher
estimation than those handsomer and costlier,
and when she found that it was gone, she went
below to search for it. She found the piece of rib-
bon to which it had been appended, but the locket
was gone. She consoled herself with the hope
that by daylight she should be more successful,
It so happened that it was necessary for Mark
Thornton to call at Mr. Philips's on the evening
of the following day. He was receivedivery po-
litely by Mr. and Mrs. Phtlips, also by Sydney;
but Vinton, who was present, did not deign to
recognize him.
At the time Mark entered, the two young men
were sitting somelittle distance from the, fire, at

a table covered with books and papers. A chair
had been placed for Mark, nearly opposite the
table. All at once, his attention was attracted
by something which Vinton was turning over in'
his hands in rather a careless manner. The hot
blood mounted to Mark's brow, for he instantly
knew it to be the locket, which about a year pre-
vious he gave to Rebecca Walbridge. He had,
with sec-et pleasure, noticed that she wore it
Thanksgiving day, and it was no wonder that, a
quick pang of jealousy thrilled his bosom, at
seeing it in the possession of Vinton.
"What have you there, Vinton ?" said Syd-
ney, whose eye chanced to rest on the locket.
" Nothing but a little keepsake."
" Given you by your sister, I suppose."
Vinton shook his head and smiletl.
"Whs, then ?"
"By a young lady, and a very beautiful one,
too.'

I

)GE FAMILY.                             99
and, as soon as he possibly could, he took leave.
When he returned home, it was observed by the
whole family that his spirits were much depress-
ed, while towards Rebecca, his demeanor was
singularly cold And distant. For this she/was
totally at a loss, how to account. She had not
mentioned the loss of the locket to any one,
thinking she should yet come across it. Several
days passed away, during which time Mark and
Rebecca had scardely spoken to each other. At
last, one evening he entered the kitchen where
she was engaged in the performance of some-
household duty, no other person being present.
"Rebecca," said he, "I am glad to find you
alone, for I have something I wish to say to you."
"And I," said Rebecca, "have something I
wish t'o say to you."
"What is it '"
"Tell me first what you have to say to me."
"I wish to speak a few words about a locket I
once gave you."
" Which is precisely what I wish to speak to
you about."
"It was a trifle, I know-not worthy your ac-
ceptance; yet I could not have believed you
would give it to Vintoni"
" Give it to Vinton!" she repeated. "Who
says I gave it to him ?"
" He himself says so."
"Then he says what is false."
"If you did not give it to him, how came he
by it?"
"Is it possible that he has it f'
"It is-I saw him with it, and I heard him
tell Sydney Philips that you gave It to him."
" I lost it, and he, I suppose, must have found
it; but why lie kept it, I cannot imagine."-
"For the purpose, no. doubt, of using it in the
way he has, in order to excite my jealousy, and
I am sorry to say that lie succeeded. I might
have known that you did not give it.to him."
" Yes, I think you might. Now that all is ex-
plained, I wish he would just return the locket."
"I hope, after what has taken place, that you
would not wear it, if he did."
"No, but don't wish him to have it."
" Hewon have it long."
"I beg that you wont say anything to him
about it."
" I may, and I may not," was Mark's reply,
he turned to leave the room.
Thevery next day, Mafk and Vinton happen-
- ed to meet. It was a retired place,'and no other
,person was .in sight. Vinton was passing on

"Is her name a secret i
"By no means. Here it is, inscribed on the
back of the locket."
As he spoke, he handed the locket to Sydney,
who, with a surprise he c'uld not conceal, read
the name of Rebecca Walbridge.
"Is this possible, and on so short an acquaint-
ance "
"I think that the locket will speak for itself,"
said Vinton, casting a furtive glance towards
Mark.
"I could not have thought it," said Sydney.
"I had some difficulty in persuading'Ann to ac-
cept a trifling present, and I am sure that Re-
becca 'has always appeared to be quite as much
reserved in such matters as Ann."
"Rebecca Walbridge is a splendid girl-that's
a fact," said Vinton. -" I could not have be-
lieved that Westbrook afforded one so beautiful,
and I consider myself a lucky dog in coming
scioss her."
This conversation had been carried on ir-an
under tone on the part of Sydney, for he did not
wish either his parents or Mark Thornton to
hear what was said. Vinton, on the contrary,
had taken no pains to suppress his voice,'having
eichibite .he locket for the express purpose of
exciting'  ark's jealousy. Sydney, who-by no
means felt please that a sister of Ann. should
bestow on an acquaintance of a few hours, a
trinket intended, as Vinton said, for a keepsake
became grave and silent.
It was with a strong effort thatMark Thorn.
 to maintained an appearance of composure


THE WALBRIDGE FAMILY.

without turning his bead, when Mark abruptly' the superintendence of- the mistress of a hand-
accosted him.                              some white- house, newly built, situated about
"Miss Walbridge," said he, "would like to 'half a mile from the residence of Esquire Wal-
have that locket returned which you took bridge. It belonged to our old friend, Mark
Thanksgiving day evening; and as I am going Thornton, who, in virtue of having been appoint-
directly home, I will, if you please, take it."  ed a justice of the peace, had now the prefix of
" Upon my word," said Vinton, "you are ex- esquire to his name.
ceedingly accommodating, and-excessively im,  There were, probably, no persons in West-
pudent. In the first place, you will please make brook so much surprised as Esquire Walbridge
it appear that I took the locked; in the next, that and his wife when they found that Mark, their
the lady wishes me to return it."          hired man, was able to purchase, a fifty acre
"As she asserts that she never.gave it to you, farm, and build thereon a handsome and com-
the presumption is strong that you took it, and modious house, together, with a barn and bther
that without leave. She also asserts that it is suitable buildings.
her wish that it be returned." "How he has contrived to gather so much to-
4' And has, I suppose, commissioned you to be gether, and hire out by the month or year all the
her Mercury. Upon my.word, she'showl both time, is to me a mystery," was the remark of
taste and discretion in selecting a person, who is Mrs. Walbridge.
capable of managing an affair of the kind ivith 'But there was, in truth, no mystery about it.
so much delicacy and tact."                Ever after he was sixteen, Mark Thornton was
"I may have little claim to either-though obliged 'to look out fok himself. He, at .once,
quite as much, I should imagine, as he who pre- commanded a man's wages, and although he
sumg to surreptitiously possess himself of an afforded himself time to acquire a good ejuca-
ornament belonging to- a lady, when he had tion, and always dressed quite as well, or rather
every reason to believe that, had she known it, better than the young men of his'age and class,
it would have been contrary to her wishes. But there was not a year that he did not save a hun-
it is of no use for us to stand here, bandying dred dollars or more, which he could always
words. The locket I am determined to have." safely invest. Thus, when he was twenty-eight
"ou are."                                years old, he ventured to ask Esquire Walbridge
am. If you refuse to surrender it, the for the hand of his daughter, and was not*denied.
"I                                         As has already beexi mentioned, it was
whole transaction shall be made public, which Thanksgiving day, and the Walbridge family,
will, I apprebeI, be little to your credit."  also Mr. and Mrs. Philips and Sydney, were go-
St  .li iying to dine at Esquire Thornton's. -After din-
 Make it pu he, if you please. I am riot to ner, they were all to proceed to the family man-
be frightened into giving it up)"         sion, where, in the evening there was to be a
"Very well," said Mark, turning on his heel. wedding. Mr. Danbury, te young Boston mer-
" Stay--takOe the bauble," said Vinton. "It chant, and the fair 4qne Walbridge, were the
is not of the, least value to me, in any sensecouple who were going to be.married. A large
number of guests, mopt of them being relations,
whatever. I certainly, -at first, thought Miss were invited to witness tlye ceremony.k  -
Walbridge quite passable for a country girl, but It was whispered that the neit Thanksgiving
her choice of a confidant, by-exposing the goarse, evening, Sydney Philips and Ann Walbridge
ness of her.mind, destroys the illusion of her w d beb yarieThey  butceranly  .
nessgaged --everybotiy knew that; but when some
beauty, and when you give her the locket, I will one present mentioned the subject to Mrs. Wal-
thank you to tell her so."                 bridge, she gave it as her opinion,4that it would
"If I should tell her," said Mark, as he receiv- be two years before they would be married, and
she, for one, thought it would be best for them
ed the locket from the hand of Vinton, " you to wait.
may be assured that it will not cause her a mo- * In less than ten years after Mark Thorntbn
ment's uneasiness."                        was married to the lovely Rebecca Walbridge;
he was the wealthiest and most influential citizen
of Westbroek. He wa,,at the age of forty, ap-
It was the third anniversary from the Thanks- pointed ju e, and what- may seem somewhat
giving, tif whieh mention has teen made in the singular, wis called upon in 'that capacity- to pr6-
preceding chapters. The usual preparations for nounge sentence upon a culprit for petty larceny;
its celeliration had beer made by the good people whose bloated countenance, the result of intem-
 pera4e,WOulhvye prevented hifrom recog-
of Westirook,                             nizing him, gd he rot ben tbld tid his name
had been accomplished by the aid, and -idet was Robert Vinton.
THE END.

100'


  
             
         
       
   
