
    ----CITATION----
        Bricktop.. Masonry Exposed .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7799
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Masonry exposed 
            
                 
                MASONRY EXPOSED.    SCENE FROM THE INrTIrTION ON THE THRD DEGREE,--'RAISING"THE CANDIDATE.--(8E PaoB 29.) NEW YORK. PUBLISHED   BY WINCHELL & SMALL, 113 FULTON       STREET. 1811,   MASONRY EXPOSED.   PART FIRST-DEGREE FIRST. WOMEN are curious creatures. They are not only so in the eyes of men, but they have a curiosity within themselves which surpasseth all understanding, including their own. I have learned this, and I may as well mention it before going further, for   it may do quite as well as a regular pre- face. At all events, it will explain some things, which is more than prefaces gene- rally do. I am a quiet man, and I love quiet above all things in the world; but in or- der to secure it, I have got to take a step that may make my own the fate of Morgan's. I am mar- ried. (If I thought my domestic life would be any more peaceful for it, I could at this point a tale unfold, but I withhold, etc.) Lit-   tie by little my adored Emily Jane has won upon me sinje our marriage; that is to say, she has persuaqded me that I am slight- ly her inferior in many respects; that I should listen to and be guided by her in all important questions. As I said before, she has gradually won upon me by keep- ing continually at it, and now she has got   so she insists on certain things, and I give up-for the sake of peace. And yet I do not consider myself a hen- pecked husband, not by any means. I think I can put a head on any man who dares insinuate that I am. I am a eace 1man, and rather than have an argument about anything ir which she invariably   gets the best of it, I have learned to give way with modesty, grace, and dignity. Before our mar- riage, I was drifting about loose to some extent, and, got into several bad scrapes, the roughest of which was, joining the Ma- sons; thereby hangs a tale. I believe that I mentioned the fact of my wife's gradual winning upon me, and however much she was disposed to let me attend lodge during our honey- moon, she soon began to argue with me re- garding the propri-   ety of a married man's keeping late hours, however good the object niight be, and at last she planted her foot squarely against it. Now I hate family breaches, and so didn't talk back much, although I kept back considerable. But she has such an aggres- sive way with her, that she finally con- vinced me that it was wrong for husbands   AT FIRST SHE LET ME ATTEND LODGE MEETINGS WITHOUT A UR- MUB, BUT AFTER A WHLE SHE PLANTED HER FOOT SQUARELY AOAINST IT.   to have or do anything that their wives didn't know all about. I acknowledged the justice of her remarks,' and promised never to attend another lodge meeting again. But EmilyJane is very aggressive, and was not disposed to let matters rest even there. She began upon me for the purpose of filch- ing from me the secrets of the order. Of course I objected; every good Mason would do that; but every good Mason hasn't Emily   Jane for a wife; I wish they had.  I held out for a long time, but, like a rat and a terrier, the harder I held out the harder she held on, until at last I agreed, for the sake of peace in the family, to ex- pose the whole thing to her, while from fear that she might  herself some day become a Mason (for in this age of pro- gressive women, who knows what   may not happen), I was afraid to diverge one jot from the truth, as every good Ma- son will see who follows up this expose. I began with her at the beginning, and am afraid the reader will have to do the same thing. But here it is, something as it was given me, and just as I gave it to my wife: MY DEAR:-I was young when they took me in, and, like other youths possess- ing a little money and a festive turn of mind, I wanted to see and learn all about   everything. That is how I came to get mar- ried, my dear-H beg pardon; it was love. Yes, unadulterated love. Well, it would seem that the fraternity knew of my inclination, for they iltanaied in one way and another, to keep my curi- osity up to a boiling point, and gave me to understand that I would be looked upon quite as favorably after I had become a Mason as I would be were I a-member of the Young Men's Christian Association.   Be a Mason! Guess I would, I thought. I had heard they used people rather rough, and I asked several of those who  had been put through the mill how the old thing worked, and they said, splendidly; that it was just as good as a wedding, and j advised meo take it in by all means. So I went for the mysteries. A committee of the whole took it   into their heads to interview me as regards character, etc. Of course I knew what that meant, and so treated them to a cham- pagne supper. They made an unanimous report in my favor, and the Master of- Torture was directed to go for me at the next regular meeting. Before the time appointed for the meet- ing arrived, I was notified by letter of my fate, and my friend Jenks came to volun . teer his services in seeing me through the   iRa. IIUCKTOP }XPLAINS TO HS WIFE TIlE AWFUL MYSTERIES OF FREEMASONRY.   first degree. I am sure I was very much obliged to Jenks; but the air of sympathy and condolence which he wore made me feel a trifle shaky on my understanding. I promised to return in a moment, and, without loss of time, I made my way to the- nearest life insurance company and took out a heavy accident policy. You see I didn't know what might happen, and as I had you in my mir d's eye, I had the policy  made payable to you in case I found myself unable to coliect it. Thus hacked up, I took my pilot's arm, and started for the lodge-room; In the ante-room I was introduced to several in- luential people, all of whom, without a sin- gle exception, smiled good naturedly or otherwise, and expressed a hope that I should "get through safe."  This did not tend'to quiet my nerves much, if any, and when I saw the broth- ers talking in groups and pointing over their shoulders at me with their thumbs, and heard the tickled laughs which they let escape them, I began to grow sus- picious that the concern was even worse than the Sons of Malta, of which order I had some time before been made a member. I asked Jenks if it wouldn't be a good idea to "take something " before the per- formance commenced. But he looked horri- fied, and said that. I should not only'be in danger of instant ejection, but might get roughly handled if the smell of liquor was discovered on me. He said the order was strictly temperate, and the thing would never do. But I managed to get a smell at my bot-  tle of hartshorn before the chief inquisitor came for me, and concluded to go it blind, and on an empty stomach. I say "con- cluded to"-in fact, I had no other alter- native but to do so; for it seemed to be an   understood thing that I was to suffer it all with my nerves uncovered. The brethren gradually withdrew into the lodge-room, and I soon found myself alone with three or f6ur savage-looking -men, who appeared to eye me very much as a wolf would look upon a lamb in the same situation. I spoke cheerfully regarding the weather and the prospect of good crops; but be- fore either of them had a chance to reply, the door opened, and one of the brothers ordered more coal, adding that it was not half hot enough yet. My heart stopped to listen with my ears. Was that extra coal called for on my account? "Haven't we but one to-night " asked another charitable brother, putting his mouth to the wicket of the lodge-room door. "That's all," was the cheerful reply. Good gracious! I wished there had been a dozen, for misery loves company I was kept in this agony for a few mo- ments, when my guards ordered me into an ante-room to strip. I felt bold; of course I did; and if I hadn't, I was the last per- son in the world to let them know it. If they were about to test my bravery, they should find it quite strong enough to sat- isfy them. So I stripped, and was given a pair of leather breeches, on many parts of which I observed strong straps or han- dles. They laughed and talked while this was going on, and seemed excessively pleased at how hard Jones took it; saying that he fainted away under the operation, and was still in the hospital, while his friends mourned him as dead. This was very en- tertaining indeed, and I wondered if the lessons I had taken in club-swinging would be of any service to me now. Before I had fairly settled it in my mind,           X   the ruthless marauders rushed in upon me. Without so much as asking my pardon, they threw me upon a board about six feet in length, and lashed me securely to it. I asked one of them if that was "regular," and he replied by stuffing my mouth full of cayenne pepper. I was sneezing after that, and not asking many questions. After lashing me securely to this board, they placed a pair of red goggles over my eyes and stood me up against the wall. They then told the   doorkeeper that they were ready. Just then the door opened, and an- other brother came from the lodge- room, saying that there- wasn't. half fire enough yet. But I was in for it, and had quite enough to do to get used to my mouthful of pep- per. I heard -some- body  shovelling coal, and just as I began to perspire freely, I was seized   by four strong men, lifted to their shoul- ders, where I rested- for a moment-one of the most sensational moments of my life. My red goggles gave everybody the appearance of devils, and everything the appearance of being on fire, and red-hot at that. One of them commenced kicking at the lodge-room door, when somebody asked what the row was. Another of my friends began to talk back, although I hadn't the   slightest idea what it was all about. - But they seemed to settle it between them some- how, and then started with me for the in- terior of somewhere. I could see just enough through, y red goggles to convince me that I was among a rough lot, and that they intended to go for my very marrow. They toted me around the room for some time, stopping before each officer just long enough to give him a chance to indulge in a little pleasantry at my expense. Mr.   Boss Mason looked at my teeth, and then filled my mouth with carpet- tacks. His First Assistant felt of my pulse, took the measure of my feet, and daubed some tar on my nose. The Second Assist- ant put shoema-. ker's wax in my ears, and mashed me over the head with a claw-ham- mer. Then I was hand- ed around to the brethren,-and each   one went for me in his own particular way; after which I was placed face downward upon the"floor, and the four men who had been passing me around sat down to rest upon the board to which I was lashed. Talk about times that try men's souls, this was trying to both soul and body. But they sang a hymn and chanted something about charity, which I thought they were not practicing. After they had become rested they again   Boss Mason-How MANY FINGERS AM I HOLDING UP, YOUNG FELLOW  Candidate-TwELVE, Boss, AS NEAR As I CAN sai. --   picked me up and carried me to a corner of the room, where the board to which I was lashed was fixed upright in strong centre-points at each end, and I was slowly turned before a red-hot stove, just as they turn a pig on a spit. 'The brethren gathered around and sang another cheerful hymn about the red-hot hereafter, just as though any place could be hotter than the one I was then in. The chief cook stood with a large sponge filled with kerosene oil, and every time I was turned away from the fire, as I went round and round, he would sponge me down and ask, me if I felt like saying anything about it. I told him it was all right; that he could rely on my secrecy for any length of time, but that I felt as though I was done on one side, and asked how long it would x probably be before the order of exercises  would change. "Souse hin!" exclaimed the Boss; and I was taken from the spit and thrown into a huge tank filled with water, and told to swim for my life. "How could I swim?"You may well ask that. Of course I couldn't, being lashed to that board; but they explained, after turn- ing -me over on my back once or twice, for me to catch my breath, that this was intend- ed to show me how valuable a thing it was to enjoy the advantages of a life-preserver; that I must see for myself that I should in all probability sink to the bottom had it not been for the float to which they had so kindly lashed me. They told me not to forget it, and I never shall. After washing me off thoroughly, the Boss told them to take me out and arrange my toilet, after which ihe real initiation would be commenced. I was sure that they couldn't do worse than they had done, and so took heart when I heard the order   given. But if this was Masonry, what was "roughing it!" They assisted me to take off my goggles and leather breeches, and a little darkey, kept for the purpose, rubbed me down, and demanded a quarter for the job. I was told to spit out the carpet-tacks, which had evidently been given me to prevent my asking impertinent questions, since 1 could. only articulate with the greatest dif- ficulty, after which they assisted me into a shilt, a pair of boots, and, after securely blindfolding me, into a bonnet that had evidently been a bonnet for a long time. I ventured to ask one of the brothers, who stood waiting for me, if everything thus far had been done regularly, and he said yes; that what I had thus far gone through was to quiet niTnereg-ad give me 'an idea of what was coming. I thanked him for his information, and extended my hand in a friendly way, when he seized me by the arms from behind and rushed me towards the lodge-room again. At the door I was met by the First As- sistant Boss, who pulled my nose and asked me how that was for high. This, he said, was to warn me, and to teach me, never to go anywhere hoodwinked; and, knowing how it was myself, never to be guilty of pulling a brother Mason's nose, unless he r-used to lend me money.  We shook 9 lands over it, and he proposed that we take a trip Down East. We approached the Boss Mason. "Put him in due posish!" he howled, as he saw us approach. 4I was hustled into the centre of the room, made to stand on one leg, throwing the other out behind so as to make a car- penter's square of myself. The Boss ap- proached me. "Benighted outsider, you are now stand-   ing on the Geological Map of the Universe; your right toe pointing to the moon, and the stars are looking on without winking. How many fingers am I holding up "   b "Twelve, Boss, as near as I can see, I  replied.  "Correct. This teaches you to always speak the truth.. By the way, have you  got such a thing as a shilling about you " t "Nary a red, Boss."  "Spoken like a Mason. This is to teach t you to look out for your loose change. Can you swear 2" "Like a trooper, Boss." "Place him in due posish." They placed me on the broad of my back and gave me a speaking-trumpet. "Now, then," said the Boss, "repeat after me, using the trumpet that all the brethren may hear you: THE FEIAFUL FIRST OATH. "I, Bricktop, in the presence o. he best lot of men that ever lived, prorise ,and swear, so help me Bob, that I will never go back on a poor Apprentice Boy; that while I am one myself, I will cheerfully oarry the hod for Master Masons; that I will always treat them when I meet them outside, or pilot them to a place where they keep a slate; that I will never make serious love to any gal on which a brother Apprentice is spoony; binding myself in three-hundred-dollar bonds to keep the peace, and never say a word about this night's proceedings, under the penalty of having my nose pulled by every member of the brotherhood wherever he may find me, apd being obliged to drink alone and pay cash for it. Domino!" "Double six!" (response by the breth- ren.)   Boss.-Keno. BRETiinEN.-Korrect! Boss.-Let him arise and repeat the oath backwards from memory. If he misses a single word, off with his head arid salt him for the army. Of course I did my best to save my head; but, after making an awful mess of it, I told them that I gave it up; that if my head was of any more use to them than it was to me, they were at liberty to take it. The Boss then owned up that they were only fooling with me, but that it was to teach me a great moral lesson, never to take back anything I had once said, espe- cially to a brother Mason. I remarked, "All right," and the Boss ordered the entertain- ment to go on. They had several other great lessons to teach me, they said, and so went for me again. The Boss had in the meantime re- filled his meerschaum, and after lighting it by digging the fire out of the Book-keeper's dudeen, he threw himself back in his chair and shouted, "Go for him " The First Assistant Boss leaped from his seat, seized a ten-pound Indian club, and swinging it in such a manner as to strike me on that portion of my body usually allotted to chairs and benches, he managed to "raise" me fullySree feet from  the floor. 1 "That is given to teach you never to be caught without being upwolstered," said the club-swinger, throwing down his weapon f and returning to his seat. r  As I succeeded in gathering myself up d again, the Second Assistant came and asked me what I wanted most.    I told him I wanted to see it-out. "Pose him and proceed!" shouted the h  Boss. Several of them reached for me -gain,   and I was placed in a sitting posture in the centre of the room. There was some- thing dangerous going on, I felt sure, but I couldn't see what it was. "Now, then," shouted the Boss, "let all bear a hand and give him the popular modern light." Some kind brother struck a match and held it under my nostrils just long enough to give me a taste of what was coming. Then another removed the hoodwink from my eyes, and I found myself surrounded by about a dozen men, each one engaged in filling a lighted kei'osene lamp. My nerves had become pretty tough by this time, or I could never have kept my position while this popular practice was going on. But I instantly took in the sit- uation and concluded that I could stand it if they could. "This is to teach you never to contribute to newspaper items by attempting to fill a kerosene lamp with 'Non-explosive' oil. Arise!" I arose. "Stand erect." I erected. The Boss approached me from DownEast. "I am now about to give you the grip of an Apprentice Boy. Place your back against mine." I calmly went back on him. "Now, touch your elbows against mine, thus."' I bore my elbows against his'n. "Now, straighten up until your head touches mine." I straightened up and touched. "Is he all right, brother Assistant?" "All right, Boss." Just then I received a violent kick on the shins from the heel of the Boss, which made me draw up and take a step or two forward.   "This, my. brother, is the grip of -the Apprentice Boy, Of course you see it can be given anywhere without attracting the attention of the uninitiated. Brother As- sistant, tEat do you call this part of the initiation. "         ! "The Apprentice Boy's Back Action Sal- utation, and is to teach the novice that ex- tremes often meet." "How shall he make himself known to, or ascertain if a stranger is on the square?" "By approaching him from behind and kicking his shins smartly. If he will stand that, he is undoubtedly a square man, and will know that you are." "Is it then safe to approach him " "That depends upon how good a Mason he is." "What words belong to this degree!" "There are two." "Give them to me." "IZeno! "' Correct.'" "These two words you will guard with jealous care. They are never used except between Apprentice Boys who wish to be sure of one another's identity, and only on great and important occasions." I bowed in token of appreciation. "Brother Assistant, what tools belong to this degree 2" "There are three, Boss; the Pick, Shovel, and Hod." "What use is made of the Pick?" "It is used in getting into hard places and levelling things." "What use is made of the Shovel?" "It is used for scooping in; and thLJIod is used to carry of what is made ly the operation." "What is the Apron for?" "To keep your clothes clean; for it i-   the duty of every good Mason to show no traces of his business on his clothes." "Correct. Brother, it will be your duty, at your earliest convenience, to get a showy brass emblem representing these tools, and wear it conspicuously about your person, that the world may see that you are one of 'em. You will now be taken back to the ante-room and clothed in your usual style, after which my Third Assistant will show you how to enter a lodge." In about ten minutes I was back again, receiving my instructions. "Provided you cannot smuggle yourself in," said my instructor, "you will approach the doorkeeper and kick his shins. You   will then say, 'Ie,' and he will reply,' No.' JTeno. If he is satisfied after Fis that you are a Mason, he will admit you. You will then approach jthe centre of the lodge-room, and there stand on your right leg, as you did while being examined by the Boss, and' remain there until you catch his eye, when, if he thinks you are regular made, he will say, ' Correct,' and you are at lib- erty to be seated with the brethren. That's all." The brethren now concluded their labors and adjourned to the nearest refreshment saloon-at my expense. END OF THE FIRST DEGREE. q   PART SECOND-DEGREE SECOND. IJ    WELL, my dear, you can well understand that it took me several days to fully re- cover from that initiation. I re-lived the trials I had endured, in my sleep. Oh! how lucky, my dear, that we were not married then; for I kicked and slammed around like one possessed of the devil. On one occasion I was dreaming that they had me again, and were on the point of doing some- thing terrible to me on the Second Degree, and I grappled with them. There was a fearful struggle, my dear, almost a fatal one; and when I came to my senses, I was lying on the floor, enjoying a severe shower of cold water. An explana- tion showed that I had grappled with my bedfellow, and that he, supposing me mad with the tremens. or something of the kind, had struggled to get out of my embrace. We rolled over and over, and at length landed upon the floor, he in the meantime yelling like a frightened Chinaman. This   brought our landlady to the room, and seizing a pitcher, she dashed the contents into my face in order to induce me to re- lease my hold. "Felt ashamed?"  Guess I did, right there before the landlady and her fright- ened boarders, and I came very near being turned out of the house on account of it. But now I must continue my actual suffer- ings by telling you about the barbarities of the Second Degree. It is very much like the first, only a great deal more so, my love, a great deal more so. When I went to the lodge-room I saw many with whom I was acquainted, but they only smiled or nodded, at most, while they talked among themselves. I could now and then overhear bits of their - conversation, but it was all about how such and such an one congratulated himself that he had got over the worst of it when he had taken the First Degree, and how   completely he found out his mistake after- -yard. One was telling how Brown was getting on with his broken fibs, another about Robinsons probably being a cripple for life, all of which was very'entertaining to me. Even my friend Jenks laughed at their jokes regarding the victims. But I had taken out another "accident policy," and although I wished myself at home, I nevertheless resolved to prove equal to the emergency. They dressed me in a shirt and that   same old bonnet as at first, and allowed me to look about for a while. They then took me into a sort of dark tower, where I was fastened, about the -waist, to one end of a pulley-rope. Be- fore I was aware that the fun had began, I was hoisted uplsome twenty feet, all dan. gling in the air, and found myself face to face with a grinning skeleton. I thought the devil   had got me, sure. While I was trying to get my breath and keep away from the horrible present- ment, it raised a large poker in its bony hand; at the same time a sepulchral voice came from somewhere, ordering me to swear, by the Holy Poker, that I would never put up with cold dinners on washing days, or allow my wife to wear the breeches. "Did I take such an oath as that " Well, my dear, I am afraid I did.. But what could a fellow do under the circum- stances. Be sides, I never supposed you   wopld wish to do anything of the kind. BuA don't let us enter into an argument on the subject; let me go on with my un- varnished tale, for thereby we are both avenged on the Brotherhood. Well, after I had taken this 6ati, I was  lowered again to the ante-room, and there allowed to put on a pair of drawers; also a pair of hoodwink. I was then led toward the lodge-room door, where my conductor, as in the First Degree, entered into a confab with a man at the   "wicket." My excuse / for wishing to enter did not appear to be satisfactory, for t h e chap at the door said he would ask the Boss about it, and so left us standing there. There were two or three brothers loiter- ing around who were talking among them- selves, just 1 o'u d enough for me to hear. One said, "Be hanged if I believe they are half h o t enough yet;" while another said, "Why,   -- ---- 1/  iJ I yes they are; I just tried them and they were sissing." While this side entertainment was going on, there appeared to have been a confab of some kind within, when the chap again came to the door and asked if we had a password with us. My companion. said yes, and whispered something through the hole, when the other said, "Correct," and told us to enter. We started, but hardly had I taken a dozen steps when somebody caught me on   THE SKELETON RA1ISD A HCUGE POKER, BY WHICH I WAS MADe TO SWEAR.   the tines of a pitchfork and asked me if I had my life insured. 1 told him about my "accident policy," when several members laughed, and the Boss struck his mallet on something and said, "Let there be no levity." I am sure I didn't want any. My companion then took me along at a sharp trot, when I stumbled over some- thing and spilled myself on the carpet. It was awful discouraging. "This is to teach you to look sharp where you go," said my pilot. What a nice man he was, to be sure. I thought just as he did, as I rubbed the bruises on my body and regained my per- pendicular. We walked along at another hurried pace, when something came in contact with my head that laid me out on the floor as stiff as a split mackerel. "This is to teach you to look out for both ends," whispered my companion, as he helped me to rise. I thought just as he did, again. I was then taken before the Boss on a charge of kicking up a muss and disturb- ing the peace. "Where are you going, young fellow?" he asked. "I haven't the slightest idea," I replied. "What were you fooling around there on the floor for?" "I was thrown down, Boss." "Did you then immediately go to the rescue of yourself " "I did. I was always pretty good at that." "Correct. Take him before my Assist- ants for further examination." The First Assistant Boss had the first 'hack at me. "Brother, you are now about to be put through a course of sprouts that may not   be found tender. Are you sound in wind and limb, and warranted kind?" "I believe I'm all right, with the ex- ception of a slight touch of homesickness," I moaned. "Oh, you'll getover all that well enough. Have you any word you would like to send your family?" "No, I'm resigned." "Pass him along." Here I was taken before the Second Assistant. "Who have you got here, brother?" he asked. "One more unfortunate, who has man- aged to live all this time without enjoying the blessings of Masonry, but who now considers it essential to his continued well- being." "Good enough, Deacon. Masonry de- lights to take in just such subjects. How do you stand with your washerwoman?" he asked, turning to me. "I believe there is a trifle in her favor," I replied. "That is right; always. have a trifle for the poor. Now, to further convince our- selves of your worthiness to redeive this additional degree in Freenmasonry, I wish to ask you a few questions, which you will please answer promptly." " Proceed," I said, faintly. '"Supposing the outside world should turn against us, and make war upon us, as they did in Anti-Masonic times; supposing we were in military camp to defend our- selves, would you lie in ambush and steal into the camp of the enemy?" "I would," I replied, unhesitatingly. "'Tis well! Brethren, he says he would lie and steal for the benefit of the Brother- hood," said the Assistant, whereat they all clapped their hands in appla se.   I began to feel that I was getting into their good graces, and should be let off easier on account of it. "He is made of good stuff, Boss," said the Assistant. "'Tis well," replied the Grand Inquisitor. "Let the instruments of torture be pre- pared, that the courage he has vaunted may be tried. Let the brethren be clothed and the Tonsurality enacted.'   "The what "I asked of mnr conductor. "Silence, sir! A loud word will be fatal to you. Come!" Talk about sheep being led to slaughter! But I took an extra turn in the pucker of my lip and said no more. It was the first time that great expectations ever made me perspire. I was placed in due position, and a bar- rel adjusted around my body in such a   RBVOLVING HAIR-BRaHES WERE NOTHNG NlIW TO MR, BUr BEING MYSELF REVOLVED BFORBB A BOW OP COMBS WAS TEEADFUL TBYING TO THE ROOTS OF MY AUBURN LOCKS.   way as to leave my head and legs protrud- ing at either end of it. The heads of the barrel were so arranged as to fit around my neck and legs, while my body was allowed to fill the barrel, or do most anything else. I felt sick at heart, and had it not been for the curiosity I felt, to see how the old thing worked, I think I should have fainted. "Is he coopered?" asked the Boss.   "He is, Boss." "What flag do you swear by?" he asked me. "Straight American," I replied. "Give it to him straight." Here I was thrown upon my side and two small American flags stuck between my toes. "Bid the Gymnast come forth!" Here a chap, dressed in tights and   spangles, tripped into the room and leaped lightly upon the barrel At a signal from the Boss he began rolling it with his feet, still maintaining an upright position upon it, going around the room at a lively rate, while my head was going around at least twice to one turn of the barrel. Then up an inclined plane he rolled me, with much more ease than I could have wished. He was a professional. Up, up we went, and after reaching the top of the incline, he started back with me. I can't say I thought of danger, for I had by this time become so dizzy that I didn't know myself from a brown stone jug. But I do remember asking myself-What if he should slip up  But before I had made more than twq or three revolutions, I became aware of a new sensation. The brethren had robed themselves in 'cowls, and, provided with ,a comb, they were ranged alongside of the inclined plane, where each one took a turn at my hair. Revolving hair-brushes were nothing new to me, but being myself re- volved before a row of combs was a trifle more than human nature could bear with- out yipping right out. I did yip, but they only laughed at my agony, and sent their combs in deeper, and nearly despoiled me of my auburn locks. But I got through with the ordeal at last, and one of the brothers, prompted by his kind feelings, most likely, gave my head a good washing in bay rum. I felt quite "smart" after it. This was to teach me that every rose had a thorn, he said. I felt the truthful- ness of his remarks, that is, if this partic- ular style of combing a fellow's hair was anyway rosy, which it somehow didn't seem to be. Well, after they had enjoyed themselves   at this part of the performance as long as they liked, they uncoopercd me, and I was once more possessed of my legs. "Brethren, how did he stand the test " asked the Boss. "He stood it like a major," was the re- sponse. "Let him be still further tried. Prepare the Erial Flight." I heard the order, but didn't care a snap. My experience had made me reckless of life and limb. While I was trying to get my breath, two of the officers seized me by the throat. Before I had time to fix myself, I was lifted and thrown upon a large sheet of canvas provided with handles, and on this occa- sion with hands to put in them, for before I knew what they were up to, I was tossed up into the air like a live lobster. I fell again upon the canvas sheet, which they held ready to catch me, and in this way I made about a dozen serial voyages in any- thing but a graceful style, and with any- thing but pleasant emotions. They were too yeasty. Once more I was placed upon my feet, and another one of them informed me that this ancient custom was first introduced at the building of King Solomon's Temple, and was designed to prcve whether the candidate's ballast was liable to change or not; also, if he was so constituted as to bear any sudden rise of fortune. I haven't had so good a raise since, so I can't tell how I should act. "Is he firm on his pins yet?" asked the Boss. "Firm as a gravestone," replied his As- sistant. "Let all good men rejoice! Brother," he continued, approaching me, " we find you have it in you. (He couldn't have had   reference to my hair.) And now, if you have no objection, we will administer an oath that will make your hair stand. (It couldn't be much of a swear, I thought, if that was all it would do.) Said oath will leave you free and clear towards all man- kind, so much so that they will never sus- pect that you have ever taken' one. Are you willing to take it -" "I will take anything but poison," I re. plied, boldly. "Pose him!" shouted the Boss, and they obeyed by setting me'upon the floor in the centre of the lodge-room, bolt upright, and spreading my legs apart, so as to form a hydro-parallelogram of me; after which they placed a harpoon in my right -and a salt herring in my left hand, and posed me as though I was in the act of striking the finny monster. THE SECOND TERRIBLE OATH. "Now," said the Boss, "repeat after me, inserting your name after the pronoun 'I.' Now, then-I, Bricktop, of my own free will and accord, in the presence of these ornaments of society, do promise and swear, that I will never impart the secrets of this degree to anybody not a Mason, except it be my wife, and then not unless forced by her into a corner where I must do so in order to save my peace of mind and my regular night's rest. I further promise and swear, to have nothing to do with the wife, sister, mother, mother-in-law, cousin, relation, or mistress of a brother Fellow-Calf, or allow anybody to do so, unless satisfied that they are stronger than I am, and have a pug- nacious way of showing it. I further prom- ise and swear, to support, in a style becom- ing a Mason, all brothers of this degree whom nature has so constituted that 'they cannot work; to open liberally to the dead   broke, and inform them of everybody who sells goods on trust, especially if said mer- chants be not Masons; binding myself un- der no less a penalty than having my liver dissected; my tenderloins taken' out and fly-blown; my heart affected by an old maid; and my general appearance ruined for feminine conquest; so help me, Jemima, Eight-men! "Brother Bricktop, what do you feel the most in need of just at present?" "A rest," I replied. "Give him a rest, brothers," shouted the Boss. Language almost fails me at this point. I can hardly express my feelings on that occasion. You have noticed; my dear, that I sometimes walk lame. Well, I shall ex- plain that, or at least you will understand more about' it presently. I have had ev- eral exciting experiences during my life; I have even run the risk of getting tight on New York whisky. I have taken part in animated political discussions where re- volvers-argued knotty points with oppo- nents. I have made three trips in a steam. boat up the Mississippi. I have capered about the roofs of high houses in the night, under the wild influence of "tangle-foot," and I once had a narrow escape while try- ing to get a light for my cigar from the burning fuse of a fifty-pound shell (from the immediate effects of which I had to be shovelled out of a sand-bank); but this giv- ing me " a rest" in the masonic way of do- ing it surpasses all these experiences. At the word of command from the Boss, I heard a report immediately under where I was sitting, and at the same time I felt myself landed against the ceiling overhead. I also smelled powder. I came down on all fours, and a brother put out the fire by dashing a pail of cold water over \     
                I afterwards learned that tl6y "raise" candidates for this degree by exploding a Fourth-of-July paper bomb under them, which usually does the business very effect- ually. Before I had regained my scattered senses, the bandage was torn from my eyes, and I found myself gazing at my brethren through a cloud of sulphurous smoke. The   Boss approached me smiling and ex- tending his hand. "Brother, you have turned out very well. Allow me to congratu- late you, and, at the same time, to give you the sign. and word of the Fell w-Calf's De- gree.' He held out his little finger an d tol me to hook mine into it. I did so.' He then car- ried his thumb towards his nose, and ordered md to follow his ex- ample. He then placed it against his nose and be-   gan slowly to spread and wriggle his re- maining fingers, thus, while I did the same. It would have been positively laughable had not the occasion been so serious. "This is the grip and accompanying mo- tions; the true meaning of which is, "Don't expect to get anything out of me." The sign belonging to this degree is this: Throw yourself into the attitude of striking a   whale with a harpoon, and if a Mason does not immediately answer you by placing himself on guard, you are allowed to throw the weapon at him. The harpoon was used at the building of King Solomon's Temple, principally to supply oil for grindstones and lamps. "The word belonging to this degree is, HaveyougotyournightkcGy, and is used to   gain admittance into a lodge. It is a Hebrew word that tw a  much in vogue during the reign of King Solomon, and it should al- ways be repeated mentally just be. fore leaving home for the lodge-room. You have now completed the first part of the Sec. ond Degree. You will non be takeli to the ante-room, there invested of what you h a v e been divested c(I mentally asked myself if they were going to put my hair back   again), and return under the guidance of your conductor for further instructions." Breathing spells come in very; handy sometimes. Mine was at this point one of the most acceptable that I ever 'enjoyed. I took my time in dressing, and tamed myr nerves as well as I could under the circum- stances. By the time 1 had my feathers well set-   I RESOLVED TO AVOID THE TORTURES OF THE THRD DEGREE, AND SO PACKED MY EARTHLY EFFECTS AND STARTED TO LEAVE TOWN; THAT IDENTICAL JACKASS BRAYED LOUDLY AS I CROSSeD HS PASTURE FOI A SHORT CUT.   tied, the conductor entered the dressing- room. "Are you ready?." he asked. "Yes. But I hope you have got through with the roughest features'of the affair." "We have. You have only one more form to go through with, a mild one, and then the worst is over. Step right this way," I did as directed, and found myself face to face with the most honest and demure looking jackass I ever encountered in my life. "You have doubtless read of how this animal figured in religious history in Jeru- salem. You have now to assist in the com- memoration of an event which no good Mason ever forgets. Please mount." The animal wasn't very high, and I found no difficulty in swinging myself astride of him. He didn't appear to mind it much; only wagged his long ears once or twice forward and back; but whether this was a masonic " sign" or not I did n,-t know. The pilot took the halter and started to lead us into the lodge-room. I held up my legs and held my breath. There was no opposition offered, and so we entered. There sat the brethren, clothed in their proper habiliments, looking as innocent as lambs. You would never suspect that one of them ever took part in "raising" a brother, or that boarding-house butter would melt in their mouths. The oiganist struck up a lively dirge, and we started off around the room, keep. ing time. Going directly up to the Boss, we halted. The old chap went through with the signs, words, and motions of this degree, after which he gave the jackass a violent kick behind. The animal proved himself a good Ap- prentice Boy Mason, for lie at once kicked   back, sending his hind hoofs to within a few inches of the Boss' nose in fine style. But that wasn't the worst of it. In kick- ing up behind, I was thrown forward up- on his neck. I seized him by the ears and held on for dear life. If this was a sym- bol, it reminded me very much of tricks I had seen in a circus. Recovering himself handsomely, he trot- ted off in the direction of the First As- sistant. Here the same performance was gone through with, only a little more so. Every now and then he would vary his antics with me by attempting to bite my legs. The Second Assistant also caressed him, after which the animal trotted around the room, and every brother worried him in his own peculiar manner. A few thought pins good for him; but he didn't. Up went his hind legs at every step. Sometimes I was holding on to his neck, sometimes to his tail, for he made it quite as lively for me as they were making it for him. However well I was helping to carry out an old symbol, or however much I was ca- tering to the amusement of the assembled brethren, I found myself fully employed in keeping my seat on the animal. I was too much employed for words, and failed to note the effect of my ride upon others. He appeared to have been trained for the purpose, and had I not been a good rider, I should probably have come to grief. But at length the animal, who had been roaming around loose during the past five minutes, was caught, and we were con- ducted before the Boss again, where he immediately resumed his former innocent appearance. "Brother," said he, "you are a brick. Allow me to congratulate you. You are now seated on the back of the masonic animal, an animal that has been in use   since the building of King Solomon's Temple. Study well his traits-and char- acteristics. Like him, be patient. Like him, never refuse to eat thistles, when you can't get anything better. His bray you must imitate, for we have adopted it as a signal of distress. Imitate, also, his vir- tues, and, knowing now that he is a sacred animal, never call a man a jackass unless you are sure that he is a Mason. You may now dismount and be seated with the brethren." I obeyed, and rejoiced that my trials were over with. I helped close that lodge -as a full-fledged Fellow-Calf, and again stood treat at a neighboring saloon where they kept no slate; after which I shook hands all round, grips and all, and then started for Ay home. The experience of that degree was too much for me, my dear, and I felt hurt at the way I had been used. If thelThird Degree was as much stronger in proportion as this one was to the First, I felt that I could never stand it. And yet I did not   wish to be thought a coward; so I wrote a note to my friend Jenks, telling him that important business demanded my atten- tion up in Canada, and mailing it to his' address, I started for the nearest railroad depot with all my earthly effects, resolving that I had got all the Masonry I wanted in two degrees, and that they might keep the 'Third and divide it up among them- selves.  While crossing a pasture for a short cut to the station, I heard a loud bray, and thinking that some Mason was in distress, I looked up, and there beheld that iden- tical masonic jackass on whom I had taken the finishing touches of my last degree. He looked as honest as ever, as he stood there in the moonlight; but I felt that I could not be seduced further, and so made additional haste to get to the next train that should take me towards California, directly opposite to where I pretended that I was going. I must throw them from the trail; for, come what would, I wanted no more Masonry.   THE THRD DEGREE-BOTH KINDS OF SAUCE.   MY LOVE-I am now about to bring be fore you a few pictures of my sorrows and sufferings, before which the tribulations accompanying the first two degrees pale into trifling insignificance. You know how sick my preceding experience had made me, and how anxious I was to travel; how much I thought my health demanded it. In short, I incontinentally skedaddled for what I considered a less dangerous locality. But they got wind of my flight. Whether they obtaid their information from that   jackass or not, I never knew, and probably never shall. But these jackasses are great personages in the order, I have found, al- though every lodge does not' support one. Where they do not possess the real Simon- pure animal, they draw lots to see what brother shall take his part in carrying out the forms of initiation. Well, I managed to get about two hun- dred miles away, when things began to look rather squally. They telegraphed for me, I suppose, and everybody along the.   route, being 'Masons, took it upon them- selves to see m6 back again. I didn't have much to say about it, for they wouldn't let me have. At length the conductor of the train I was on came up to where I sat, holding a telegraph dispatch in his hand. He looked first at the dispatch and then at me. Then he kicked my shins. I forgot myself and kicked back. Fatal acknowledgement! He rushed to the platform of the car and pulled the signal rope. He returned, as the train began .to slacken its speed, fol- lowed by two burly brakemen. Without a word of introductioni; without even waiting to feel of my pulse to see if I was in the proper physical condition for such exercise, they seized me by the first ex- tremities that presented themselves and bustled me out of that car, short metre, no verses omitted. The train had reached a station, and I was landed, baggage fashion, upon the platform. The regular trunk-buster of the train came up at this point, and, thinking his rights were being infringed upon by brakemen, he seized me about my waist and threw me nearly ten feet, landing me in amongst a lot of trunks and boxes; that already bore his smashing monogram. He was on the point of "raising" me for another throw, thinking that I wasn't half busted yet, when the conductor rushed to my rescue. Taking me out from among the wrecks, he stood me up and showed the Smasher that I wasn't a trunk at all. This made several people laugh. The Smasher begged the conductor's pardon for the mistake, and rushed fol 'a"trunk that still retained its cover, on adcount of some oversight on his part. By the time I had collected my hat, travelling-bag, and my senses; another train   came up from the opposite direction. In a moment the two conductors had their heads together. What they said I do not know, but I know what they did. They seized me by the collar, one on either side, and marched me on board the train that was bound back again in the direction of where I had come from. I attempted to get an explanation out of them, but not a word would they give me. Presently the train moved and I was hurrying back again, with a brakeman looking, at me through the door at each end of the car, probably to prevernt me from ommitting a wild dash for life and liberty through a car' window. When this train arrived at its destination, I was transferred to another, still under guard, and still unable to get an explanation of what the dickens it was all about. But I had a sickening presentiment that my lodge had "sent for me." I tried to get into conversation with one or two gen- tlemen on the train, to see if I couldn't scare up a little sympathy, but t4ey frowned, drew sighs, and silently .mned away. I began to see how it was; I had felt a masonic weakness at one time; I was feeling a masonic power now. After a ride of another day, I was land- ed at the station from whence I had first set out. It was midnight. A select com- mittee' of four, headed by that jackass, were at the depot waiting for me. They took me gently, two on either side, and flung me astride that knowing beast, who no sooner felt my weight than he gave a loud bray, a kick-up of joy, and landed me in the mud. I was picked up and again sat astride the animal. The whole affair was con- ducted noiselessly, and in due and ancient form (according to Gunther), and I still continued to act the part of a martyr.   But there I was back again, and they placed me in a close cell-like room, the walls of which were padded to prevent my butting my brains out, I suppose, and there kept for nearly a week. They fed me well, to build me up for that Third Degree, most likely; but not a word could I get out of my attendant respecting my future pros- pects, and the only voice that greeted my ears was the bleating of a goat and the bray of that confounded masonic jackass. At length I was taken out and conducted to the lodge-room. I saw several there who knew me, but they all cut me and smiled very sickly. I soon learned that this was a special meeting, called for the purpose of "working" on the Third De- gree and on my feelings. I stood there in the ante-room alone, and for a long time unnoticed, except by my guard. But the brethren soon disappeared with- in the lodge-room, with the exception of the four masked, sturdy chaps, who stood about with drawn swords and cocked blun- derbusses to prevent another escape on my part. In fact, everybody that I could see now was masked and robed, to show char-. ity, probably, by not showing me who my tormentors were. Well, when everything was arranged, I was ordered into the dressing-room to robe for the sacrifice. I was given a pair of tights and a regular ballet-dancer's costume, and told to iusert myself. Reluctantly I inserted, and silently. My conductor of the previous degrees offered me his arm and escorted me to the lodge-room door, on which he gave five or six smart raps with his knuckles. I was not hoodwinked, and could see and hear everything, even more than I wanted to The wicket in the door opened. "Who comes here " asked a brother.   ' "A candidate for the Gridiron Can- Cov," replied my friend. "Does he come of his own free will and accord ( " "Ie does." (Did you ever!) "'Tis well. Take him to the furnace- room." I was taken into the main lodge-room, which was dimly lighted, around which sat the brethren in dominoes and cowls. My conductor opened a door which led into a hot but only partially lighted room. Be- fore me a huge coal fire glowed, and over it a large gridiron was placed. I heard a command coming from somewhere behind a wall: "Shoulder arms!"It almost made me shoulder my heart. "Mount the gridiron!!" shouted some- body from somewhere. "But you-you-don't really lean to-" "Mount, and imitate the mortal remains of a brother of the Second Degree who tried to escape the Third. Mount "   / I ascended the platform, while my con- ductor seized a poker and a fan. ' Present arms!" again came from behind the wall, and, turning, I beheld three or four blunderbusses pointed at me from loop- holes therein, while at my right a skeleton suddenly poised itself in the attitude for a pas de diable. ' He' was a wire-worker, or f at least he was worked on wires. Standing in an ash-barrel, on my left, I was a man, or something representing Light and Darkness. He began an overture on s  a Jew's harp, showing plainly that he was e the leader of the orchestra. r "Cover him!" was the next command ts from behind)the wall, and if there had ar been any carelessness regarding their aim o. before, they at once corrected it by pointing their ugly weapons directly. "Mount, and follow suit!"   I think I trembled some about then. I momentarily thought of revolt, but the muzzles of those blunderbusses were so close to me that I could smell the powder, so I concluded to " mount." It was worse than the " mounting in hot haste " that Byron referred to, before Mrs. Stowe referred to him. My dancing slip- pers were just thin enough to make them sensitive to the heat of the gridiron, and to stimulate lively action. But that con- founded Jew's harp just played Auld Lang Syne, and as I was obliged to follow the music and the motions of my ghostly danc- ing-master, I found in it almost anything but amusement, however well it might haye pleased those who had been previously put over the coals themselves. This bit of masonic exercise lasted for about five minutes, after which I was seized by two strong men and thrust into a tank of cold water to cool off. Tall about Turkish baths, bah! Such affairs are innocent compared with the Gridiron Can-Can and its accompanying bath. I was then wiped off and hurried back to the dressing-room for further initiation and instruction. My next change of dress was something like that they gave me for the First Degree; consisting of a night- gown and a huge bonnet. Here I was given an empty hod   and a candle.  I "shouldered, arms" with the former, and held the latter at arms length. As soon as I began to breathe regularly again, they once more hurried me towards the lodge-room. "Who comes ha;e?" was again demanded. "A candidate whose tallow-dip has burn- ed low, and he is in search of further light," said my companion. "Does he come of his own free will and accord?"   "Ie does." (Whopper number 2.) "Is it regular, Boss?" asked the door- keeper, turning around and addressing the old Down Easter. "Regular. Bring on the Goat," replied the Boss. -By this time I saw  that the cowled brethren were gathered into a large circle for some purpose or other. What that pur- pose was I soon learned. "Mount him and make him a member of the ' Ring,'" shouted Wie Boss. Without a word I was placed on the back of the masonic goat, and told to bal- ance or die. In an instant the animal darted into the ring and began to gallop around like mad. The remains of Davy Jones acted as Ring Master, while the re- mains of the old Volunteer- Fire Depart- ment attended to the hoops that I was forced to leap through while I'was making my harum-scarum pilgrimage. Around and/ arouncy flew this untamed, fiery William-Goat, receiving every now then a kick from some of the members of the Ring, which so demoralized his steadi- ness of gait that it made my standing even more uncertain. I felt sure of one thing, however; if I ever got out of that scrape alive and was in want of a job, I could get an engagement at any circus in the world. At length this untamed steed of mine made-a bold and sudden halt. But I kept right on, landing in among my brethren like a discouraged scare-crow, with the re- -mains of my candle jammed into my mouth. The Ring broke up and I was assisted to my feet and given a sponge to hold to my nose. "This is to teach you that you should never trust to your own powers of stop- ping while rushing through the world. Do you see it?"   "I can't yet, but perhaps I shall be able to do so after I come to my senses a bit," I replied. "Remove him for the next," howled the Boss, and I was hurried, limping, from the room. "Isn't this thing about through with?" I asked, mournfully, of the man and brother at my elbow. "Well, some of the most discouraging features are," he replied, with a mellow grin. He didn't change my dress much this time, merely giving me an old soldier's hat instead of the bonnet, and "sou-wester " round-about to put over my nether gar- ment. I was allowed about ten minutes for breathing-refreshments at this point, after which I was again shown into the lodge-room. In the centre of the room stood a huge tank, filled with water, on which was a coffin-shaped yacht with sails all hoisted. "Place him at the wheel," said the Boss. I was placed in the stern of the boat, and grasped the wheel with both hands. "You are now about to make the most perilous voyage that you have ever yet made. Before you are rocks and hidden dangers. Grasp' the wheel firmly, and show your worthiness." I did the best I could, but the boat was dreadful tippish, and it required all my nerve to stand up, to say nothing about working her. By some agency or other she began to move around the huge tank. I kept a stiff upper lip and did my nautical best, but just as I had made the circuit I ran on the rocks, and the bottom of my craft fell out, and I fell in. I was taken out somewhat waterlogged. This was to teach me, they said, never to undertake anything that I did not under-   Itand. I began to  vonder why I had ever undertaken Masonry, then. Again I was sponged off and taken to the dressing-room for a change of costume. I asked my companion if they hadn't got about tired of the nonsense that they were practicing, but he reassured me by assuring me that every regular Master Mason had to go through with the same trials. "Couldn't you  give me a drop of brandy?"I asked, beseechingly; "I swal- lowed a large quantity of that water and' I am not used to it." "Oh, ah! if that is the case, I will give you a few drops. But we Masons never make use of it except where a brother has acci- dentally swallowed some water," he replied. Going to a cupboard that stood in one corner of the ante-room, he unlocked it and took down a decanter of brandy and poured me out a glass. It was the finest old Hennessey that I ever parted my lips over. How I did wish that he would make a mistake and pour out another glass. He did pour out another glass, but he drank it himself. Whether he had acci- dentally swallowed some water or not, I could only conjecture; but he swallowed some immediately after- the brandy, and smacked his lips just as though it had not been taken for a medicinal purpose. "Now, then," said he, "you must pre- pare for another and the last great sym. bolic show." The brandy gave me new nerve and spir- its, and I was ready for the final test. Thistime I was dressed only in a loose pair of pants, which fastened around my waist. Once more I was taken towards the lodge- room scene of operatitns. "Who comes here?" was the question in reply to two or three raps on the door.   "A man not yet a Mason, and anxious to finish his apprenticeship by tending on Masons." "Is he top-heavy " "He is well balanced." "How is his nerve; can he face danger?" "Yes, he even dared to run away from the Third Degree." "Let him be taken on the job we have now in hand. Go with him to the Boss Builder." "Who have you here, and    oes he want?"  "Boss, he wants a job," replied my con- ductor, who had taken me before the royal old Down-Easter. "Is he a Master Mason?" "He is not; he is desirous of finishing his apprenticeship." "'Tis well. Give him the necessary im- plements." These "implements" consisted of a wheel- barrow, loaded with bricks, on the top of which was a skull and cross-bones. I was told to harness myself to the "imple- ments," and so took the handles. I raised it from its legs with some difficulty, for it was very heavy. "Hello, down, there! more bricks!" shouted somebody away up aloft, some- where. I glanced around and saw an inclined plane, kept in position by some very shaky props. I must say that I was somewhat shaky, and but little inclined to mount it. "Don't you hearthe cry? Wheelthe bricks up to the Master Mason," said the Boss. "It looks a triflshaky," I said to those standing around me. "He says he is shaky, Boss," cried one of the Deacons. "What! does his courage fail him at last?" yelled the Boss.   "No-no-that is-I-think-"I fal- tered, nervously starting my load towards the inclined plane. "Spur him!" shouted the rough old Easterner. Before I could hardly realize it, four or five bayonets were at my back, and the aspect of matters was at once changed. I started up with the load of bricks, closely followed by the "spurs"; but when I ar- rived near the top, I came face to face with a grinning skeleton, holding in its hand a rope, at the end of which was a hangman's k^^fiose. TSey appeared to have a large quantity of these bony emblems around the lodge- room, and I found them located in the most inconvenient places. They assured me, however, that they were all the remains of recreant Masons, which made me feel much more at home among them. This one was evidently placed where I confronted it, for the humane purpose of assuring me that, should the staging give away, I would be caught by the neck to break my fall. Iow I got out of this part of the per- formance I never knew. I fainted at the sight, and the last tiling I remembered hearing, was of a great fall in bricks. I was saved from breaking my neck some- how, and was taken to the ante-room. They tried all sorts of restoratives, but not until they had turned a glass or two of brandy down my   throat did I arouse. Then I was taken before the Boss, for further initiation. All traces of the ma- chinery and implements which I had ex- perimented upon, and which had been used in experimenting upon me, were removed, and I stood face to face with the satisfied brethren. The Boss thus addressed me: "Brother Bricktop-King Solomon would certainly have awarded you what I now   propose to bestow. You have stood all the tests thus far brought to bear upon you with  fortitude becoming a Mason. Your tribulations are nearly over, and the goal of renown and triumph is nearly won. You have yet one great sin to atone for; that of attempting to escape the hon- ors of this degree. But before that atone- ment is called for, it is but right that your mind should be prepared. I will now ad. minister to you the oath of this degree, together with the signs and words. Deacon Asher, place the brother in due position for the swear." - A  three-legged stool, about as high as my knees, was produced, and I was re- quested to balance myself upon it, face downwards, leaving the remainder of my anatomy free for exercise. "Now, then," said Deacon Asher, "strike out with your legs and arms, as though in the act of swimming, keeping up a graceful, gentle motion while repeating the oath." I did as directed, and the Boss began:' THE LAST TERRIBLE, HAIR-LIFTING OATH. "I, Bricktop, to all whom it may concern, do depose, swear, assert, state, and make oath, that I have been put through in regular style, according to the usages in vogue at the building of King Solomon's Temple;. that I have found the Order all that- my fancy painted it; the brethren lamb-like gentlemen, and the Boss every inch a king. I hereby promise, swear, etc., that I will not impart the secrets of this  degree to anybody that I have not told   I the other degrees to; that I will always  ] blow for the Order, and especially for the 1 lodge to which I belong. I further prom-  ise, etc., not to assist in making my wife, or any other man's wife, a Mason; that    I will not help make a Mason of a man who has ever been a politician, or who has ever held a government office; that I will not help raise'a man without teeth, or one who has less brains than I have myself; or one who is given to the flesh-pots of Egypt; or one. who has ever cheated anyi,)ody; or one who thinks more of anot h  's wife than he does of his own; r a man with disproportionate large feet, one bare- footed on top of the head; or a man given to 'bucking the tiger,' or driving fast horse- flesh; or a man who uses tobacco and straight whisky; or a lazy man, or one who is so stiff in the joints that he cannot make a carpenter's square of himself; binding my-. self under no less penalty than having my corns trod on by every Mason in the land; my hairs extracted one by one; my %weet- heart prove untrue, and my wife expensive; my heart taken out and preserved in vine- gar; my bones given to the lodge that raised me, for a working warning to future recreants; all of which I swear, so help me Moses, and keep me in backbone." During this recital I kept up the "grace- ful, gentle motions" before mentioned, al- though it took all my wind and strength to do so. When I had finished, they stood me on my feet again, and the Boss ap- proached me. "I now come for you under the due-gar- den-sign of a Master Mason. The due-gar- den is this, holding both hands over your abdomen, in token of the anguish and the position you were in while taking the oath. The sign is this-throwing your arms out and back as though swimming, which also refers to what you were doing while taking the oath. Brother First Assistant, where is the "word" belonging to this degree?" "It was lost at the building of King Solomon's Temple."   "How was it lost " "Sol. had his pocket picked." "What is to be done?" "We substitute one which answers just as well."' "Give it to me." "Not if I know myself, Boss." "How shall I obtain it for this brother?" "We will obtain it for him in due form, and with it will con-   fer the Master's grip. "'Tis well. Let the operation be perform- ed." I was once more taken to the ante-room for a change of dress. This time it consisted in just nothing but a pair of drawers. A hang- man's noose was placed around my neck, and there I stood, waiting for the finishing touches that should send me be fore the world a reg- ular Mystic Tie-r. I begged my conductor fo r another glass of brandy, but he could not give it, he said, unless I made oath that I had accidentally swal- lowed some water.   You may well believe that I was getting tired of this usage, and when I found that there was no hope of getting propped up with some more of that brandy, I almost caved in on the spot. I felt utterly reck- less, and didn't care a continental what they did with me. : When everything was in readiness the conductor took hold of the rope around   my neck and led me into the lodge-room, now partially darkened. As I entered, two stalwart men, got up like skeletons, seized and shouldered me, one taking my should. ers upon his back, while the other rode my legs upon his shoulders, carrying an um- brella and a fan. What it all meant I knew not, neither do I pretend to know now. But they   r t a r be u around the lodge-room with me. Going up to the Boss he said it was all reg- ular, and told them to take me to his First Assistant. This functionary ap- peared to have things all his own way. "Who have you here, ,brother skeletons?" he asked. "The Fellow-Calf who ran away," replied one of my bony tormentors. "'Tis well. As a pen- alty for that manifesta-, tion of cowardice let him be taken to the barber of this decree." What the devil is com- ing now, I thought. I soon found out all about it.   Going to the northern portion of the lodge-room, they mounted up a few steps to a platform on which stood a barber's chair. They sat me in this chair, and placed my feet in a tub of hot mustard water. It made me jump; it also made me howl. The brethren were again cowled and stood around with all the emblems of farming and war, while two or three of   " THEY CARIIED ME IN A SlIEET TO MY BOARDING- HOUSE. TIIE OLD PORTER LIFTED MY LIMP FORM TO IIS SIIOULDERS, AND TOOK ME UP-STAIRS TO MY ROOM."   them struck-up an unearthly quickstep on a fiddle and clarionet. The sight, the sounds, and the situation was quite enough g to excuse a man for getting weak.   to This ghostly barber went for me. He  tr was hung on wires and worked clumsily. So He shoved his lather brush up my nostrils,  into my eyes, ears, and mouth. In fact, he ex lathered my whole head: Then he came  for me with a huge razor, and then I col-  lapsed. I haven't the slightest idea what they no did with me after that. I only know that of I knew nothing after that until late the F next day. The prospect of having that  e old wire-worked skeleton fooling around c my facial projections and jugular with a  razor was not in my vein, so I fainted and fell into my mustard bath.       s They tried everything to resuscitate me,  but I was utterly exhausted, and refused to n quicken. As it was getting late, they con- e eluded to postpone the job of "raising" me until a future "working " night. They got  my clothes on as well as they could, and  taking my limp form up in a sheet, they caried me to my boarding-house and depos- ited me tenderly in the front hall, telling the servant that I had been overcome by the heat. The old porter lifted me to his shoulder and carried me up to my room, where I was allowed to rest in peace until my sensibilities returned. But it was quite a week before I fully recovered my senses, and yet I was not al- lowed to call my regular physician during the sickness that followed; the lodge, as all lodges do, employed a surgeon whose especial business it is to pour oil and other patent remedies on a newly-made brother's wounds, without allowing the outer world to know how bad he really is. This is esteem. ed a masonic secret of the first magnitude.   By this individual I was nursed, and after a week or so was able to get around again. Nearly everybody had something to say to me regarding my looks, and, strange to say, they were nearly all Masons. Some of them were inclined to laugh at me and to perpetrate jokes, all of which I was expected to moisten by taking the jokers to the nearest first-class saloon and asking them what they would take. Another week passed by and I received notice to attend a regular communication of my lodge, for the purpose of seeing the First Degree conferred on another benight- ed mortal, who had probably come to the conclusion that Masonry was a good thing,/ and he couldnt live without it. If there is anything in the world, in Ma- sonry or out of it, that fattens and glad- dens the heart of a man who has been made to suffer, it is seeing somebody else enjoying the same thing. From what I have told you, I think there can hardly be a doubt in your mind but that I suffered considerably in several particulars, and the idea of seeing another toasted was like balm to my wounded heart.  So I was early at the lodge-room on the appointed night. There I found my friend s Jenks, and many others that I knew. They all nodded to me, but none of them shook hands in the regular masonic way, and I thought they treated me rather coldly for a full-blood brother Mason. 1-  I asked Jenks about it, and he said it g was on account of certain irregularities in is my "make;" that I was not yet a Master  Mason, and mustn't mind it if I was not er petted and fondled like the rest of the fel- s lows. Well, they admitted me and put me Id through my First Degree lessons, all of m. which I managed to pass muster on, and took my seat among the brethren. Then   came t h e ' fun of the : evening- t the initia- tion of a can- dildate oli that degrce. It was high old fun, I must admit, much high er an d a trifle older than when I was being offered up myself. But after every thing had been finish ed, and  the poor. fellow   TIE WIOLE THNG IN A NUTSHELL--"AND TilIS, MY DEAR, IS TIIE GRAND IAILING SIGN OF A MASTER MASON."   sent home in an ambulance, the Boss closed the lodge and opened it again on the Sec- ond Degree.  Then all hands adjourned for "refreshments"; and I must say that I ltever knew so many people who had "accidentally swallowed water" in one body before. It is lucky they had a good supply of brandy there, or else many of them must have suffered from the effects of water taken into the stomach. They appeared to think that everybody had taken some water by mistake, myself among the rest for I got a good{ square drink of the bral(y, although I felt that I was act- ing rather unmasonic in taking advantage of this generous mistake. I mentioned it to Jenks, when that indi- vidual again looked wise, and informed me that it was all right; that I, not being a full Mason, could not understand how the   old thing worked, or, what "accidentally swallowing water," meant.  I concluded, however, that this was a sort of (in) " side degree," but with the taste of that brandy in miy mlouth, I could but wish from the bottoml of my heart that I was a  full" Mason. But the Boss soon called us together again, and opened the lodge in the Third Degree, calling for the unfinished lusiness of the last regular communication. What was my astonishment when one of the Deacons took me by the north ear and led mle up before the Boss. I understood now that I was the unfinished business re' ferred to. He threw his feet up on the desk before him, and bgan: "Young man," said he, "it may be inter- esting to you to know that you are not yet a Mas-   ter Mason. You  at- tempted to escape the trials of the great and glorio us Third De- gree, and by so doing you incurred ad- ditional in- fliction s. Those inflic- tions you could not bear up un- der, and so you can nev- er -receive the Master's Wiord ,wieE'c Word,which T,   ARCHLY PULLING DOWN THE LID OF HER EYE, SHE ASKED ME IF I SAW ANYTHNG GREEN rIIERE. "   otherwise would have been given you. In o all other respects you are one of us.  st "But in the absence of that important n adjunct, it becomes my solemn duty to lec d ture you on your duty to the Brotherhood and the. world at large. To do this the more effectively, I will call my First As f sistant and have a talk with him, which  you are at liberty to overhear.     i "Brother First Assistant, what is Free- t masonry?"  "The art of getting more than you bar- gain f6r." "What Tools belong to the Third De- t gree " " "A Pot of Beans, a Beehive's Nest, Sprig of Aristocracy, Mowing-Machine, the  Oroide Watch, a Hearse, Numbskull and Shin Bones, and a long-handled Spade." "How are they explained!" "The Pot of Beans denotes good living;  the Beehive's Nest denotes the sweets that  are to be picked up in life; the Sprig of Aristocracy denotes snobbery; the Mowing- Machine shows an improvement over time; the Oroide Watch shows how much val- uable time one may lose if he attempts to measure his daily walks by one of them; the Hearse is significant of great under- takings; the Numbskull and Shin Bones represent that portion of the world which knows nothing of Freemasonry; the Spade represents what we know about farming." "Good enough. Now, then, you under- stand as much about it as we do," said the Boss, addressing me, "Brother First As- sistant, what is a Mason's first duty 2" "To look out for number one." "How is it typified-?" "By getting all you can, and keeping all you get." "What is his second duty " "T' keep himself posted on his neigh- bors' affairs, and be ready to take due ad- vantage of any little weakness he may find." "hat is his third duty?"  "To look after the widows and female orphans of defunct brother MasonS; to see that they never xvant for anything,! "To keep his 6ye on the wife of every   other good and upright Masonin good standing; to notify him of anytElg that might escape his notice regarding her con- duct with the world- at large." "What is hi urth duty " "To support Iis odge and keep the re- freshment-table w  supplied. Never to drink alone when a rother Mason is with- in hailing distance. his is an old custom that has been in vog e since the building of King Solomon's Tetnple. "His fifth duty is to appear big, brave, gallant to the ladies, more especially to those whom he is not married to; that ev- erybody may know he is a Mason." "'Tis well. Now, my brother," said the Boss, addressing me, "you see how it is yourself. "That the Order may be kept flourish- ing, you are expected to say a good word for it on all occasions when in the presence of those who do not belong to it. Tell them of its beautiful forms of initiation; but never propose a man for membership who is not blessed with a good back-bone. "Never propose a man who has no money, prospects, or influence in the world, unless you have found, by ample trial, that he has cheek enough to answer'as a good substitute for these requisites, and knows how to use it in the most subtle and skill- falfmanner. You may non take your seat, and consideir yourself made for life." "And this, my dear, is the Grand Hailing Sign," I said, as I drew my expose to an, end, representing it to her as in the illus- tration. But she saw a twinkle in my eye or a smile on my face which awakened .her sus- picions, and archly pulling down the lid of her eye, she asked me if I say anything green there.          A - My wife klways would have her own opinion about things, and now, after all the trouble I had been to, to expose and e explain the secrets of Masonry, she evid- e ently thinks I have been fooling her. Women are so peculiar I  y   - ... -   PAPER LIME3      D I 3 These beautiful Collars are sold at same price as Paper Goods, are much finer, and will wear- three times as long. FO"    A T.-R I3 V j!lh W H I  :rHr. L;Scw*crTfrnD 9t e. W. H. WABD Ne Yo YORK y--vv^vrv^y4W I-;sP'PPaTaP1PP   ROB ROY. Cloth Face, Paper Lined.   MARQUIS OF LOIRNE. Cloth Face, Paper Lined.   YOUNG   FRANCE. Cloth Face, Paper Lined.   IlAHE PICCADILLY. Cloth Face, Paper Lined.   GENTS' REVERSIBLE ARGOSY CLOTH CUFFS, Paper Lined.   Self-Measure    for Shirts. Printed Directions for Self-Measurement,. List of Prices, and Drawing of different Styles of Shirts and Collars, sent free everywhere. Ready-Made Shirts, Six for $12.50. Fine quality, well made and warranted to fit. The cash can be paid to Express company, on receipt of goods. HSe W H1 WAUD 387 Broadway, Also, cor. Union Square & Broadway, NEW YORK.   'WID             ATS  -ts* :   OFP AM-ERIOAC         , -- ALL RESPECTS PIRST4A      AND ORIGINAL , ; ESW D^ OATS is now its seeondyearand onitheigh road of -succes. "iAhe -samesize asalHarpers' Weekly, and-is'cosumopolitan, pointed, good-nature4, 1-r        O 3 A  :E Bi:CJ A - ' '    ?' **^*^-^ '  ,tl; 'daaipg atthe follies- of fe day, at men an+dhteir doitgs, at.- tomeg. -"F: 'd.:',   , pet . n  is     -.di m t '^ixi-;' ' '  - , ' ,','.x, -a:.:,s:j ia :-e it greatest triumphs..... L- -sd .r - a    t iL... trtm oresT - *o-     . lea-.' sOprfession are employed 'on its icolamns, and in no respect is anyflfing mitthat sho'uld be. found in a first-class, live paper of the timesin WMhia we "'AIT "' f-os ale-by- all new*deaIers everywhere W ;- , z- - - ;-X PRICE, 10 CENr...  $1 PEt YIR.'  Add ress -, i      ,-      ,  - :.' .   /. **i @- 113' . t-'      'e , ,wx', rk i-  ' . .11ent4!   t!r3 ";',F l's3tori St,eet " . s c:iFt/.. .     
         
       
   
