
    ----CITATION----
        Reeder, Louise.. Currer Lyle, or, The Stage in Romance and the Stage in Reality .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7549
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Currer Lyle, or, The stage in romance and the stage in reality 
            
               CURRER LYLE OR THE STAGE IN ROMANCE AND THE STAGE IN REALITY: BY LOUISE REEDER. NEW-YORK: E. D. LONG, 121 NASSAU-STREET. 1856.   Entered according to act of Congiess, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, by E. D. LONG, PUBLISHER, in the office of the Clerk of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.   KIND AND COURTEOUS RtEADER- In placing before you these pages; replete as they are with the realities of stern experience, I make no stereo- typed excuses or evasions. I shall not, as is commonly the case, endeavor to convince you that in doing so, I yielded to the earnest solicitations of friends, but will can- didly confess that from first to last? they were written with reference to publication. The hopes and fears the work may have engendered in my breast, more particularly as it drew near completion, give it no claim upon the sympa- thies- of a discriminating public, since,I am not the only one whose emotions have been thus awakened. I hav-e labored to divest the stage of its tinselry and gauds, and place it in its true colors before the young and inexperienced aspirant for Dramatic fame, and, if I but convince them that the Theatre is not a palace of enchantment, but a mimic world of busy action, where all is real and earnest, and that the only laurels they may hope to win must be gathered from the fields of mental labor, I shall be more than repaid. LOUISE REEDER. NEW YORK, Nov. 1ST, 1856.    CONTENTS. CHAPTER.               PAGE. L--THE GREAT FIRE IN NEW YORK-A MEMO- iRABLE BIRTH NIGHT .................... 9 II.-TIME CHANGES, OR A WIFE'S ESTRANGE- MENT ....... .. o... ....................... 16 "I.-ONE TOO MANY FOR A MOTHER'S HEART. 23 IV.-PRIDE AND PASSION-A HUSBAND'S RE- BUKE.  ...................... .... 28 V.-THE ROUE'S MSTAKE, AND THE FATAL "ETTER  .... ................................ 84 VI.-AN INSULTED WIFE-THE CHALLENGE.... 43 VII.-THE DUEL-A FEARFUL VINDICATION..... 51 VIII.-THE DUELLO, OR WHCH IS THE COWARD?. 57 IX.--JOHN BRADLEY, THE BACHELOR LOVER.. .64 X.-INCIPIENT MOUSTACHOS AND MANLY HEARTS, OR WHCH WEIGHS MOST WITH IWOMEN. ..8. ............................... 69 XI.-A CHAPTER ON FORTUNE TELLING, OR Tft :-PECULIARITIES OF MRS. PUGSBY AND HER MAID GUBBINS ................ " XII.-THE TRAGEDY QUEEN AND IRISH MADGE. 90 XIII.-MSS MDGE, THE WOMAN WHO KNEW WHAT WAS GOING ON.................... 102 XIV.-MARIAN SLEY, THE SOCIAL SERPENT ....... 107 XV.-PROTESTANTISM OR CATHOLICISM ........ 115 XVI.-POOR MADGE, THE FAITHFUL NURSE, BIDS HER WEE DARLINGS FAREWELL ........ 128   Vi      %0ONTENTS. CHAPTER.               PAGE. VII.--THE EVIL CARGO, OR THE CRUISE OF THE "VELY MOLL, AN OLD SAILOR'S YARN. 12 XVIII.-MRS. PATTERSON AND HER VICTOREE, OR PRIVATE BOARDING-HOUSES AS THEY ARE .......... ............................... 188 XIX.-THE RICH WIDOW, A PICTURE OF FASH- IONABLE SOCIETY ......................... 146 XX.-TWO PICTURES IN THE DRAMA OF LIFE... 159 XXI.-INEZ DE TRESSILI. ...................... 167 XXII.-THE CLANDESTINE MARRIAGE AND THE PETTIFOGGING LAWYER.....J............. 171 XXIII.-THE CONSEQUENCES OF A PENNY-A- "NER'S IGNORANCE, AND THE VISIT OF THE PUGNACIOUS PUGSBY .......... 178 XXIV.-TIME TRIES ALL-A BROTHER'S REVENGE. 185 XXV.--WHAT MRS. DELAMERE KNEW............. 193 XXVI.-A FASHONABLE BOARDING SCHOOL, OR MSS LYE WOULD MAKE AN ACTRESS.. 204 XXVII.-INEZ DE TRESSILI-THE STORY (F SHAME AND WOMAN'S REPENTANCE ............. 212 XXVIII.-ARTHUR EDGERTON, OR LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT................ .. .... ............. 222 XXIX.-CURRER LYE'S DETERMNATION AND IER SACRIFICE  ............. ............... 229 XXX.-THE MDNIGHT INTERVIEW-UNEXPECT- ED APPEARANCE OF CURRER LYE AND 240 A CHANGE IN HER PROSPECTS .......... XXXI.-AN OLD ACTRESS'S ADVICE-THE DEBUT, OR ROMANCE AND REALITY.!........... 261 XXXII.-A MDNIGHT ADVENTURE IN A NEW YORK HOTEL-FRIENDLY ADVICE, AND AN IN- TERVIEW WITH A DANDY MANAGER... 275 XXXIII.-MARY LORIMER-OR THE MURDERED WIFE -THE FADED DREAM.................... 299 XXXIV.-BEHND THE SCENES, AND AN INTRODUC- TION TO MR. CONSUELO, THE TRA- GEDIAN   ...   ....... 817   CONTENTS.        Vii CHAPTER.               PAGE' XXXV.-THE RESCUE AND FLIGHT OVER THE SUS- PENSION BRIDGE AT W- --............ 831 XXXVI.-DAMON AND PYTHAS, OR THE DRAMA IN COUNTRY TOWNS-AFFECTING SCENE BETWEEN DAMON AND HS WIFE-A NEW VERSION OF THE STRANGER...... 838 XXXVII.-A MEETING OF OLD FRIENDS ............ 351 XXXVIII.-BRINGS MY STORY TO A CLOSE WITH AN UNEXPECTED DENOUEMENT ............. 357    CURRER LYE. CHAPTER I. AMONG the old inhabitants of New York, there - are few who cannot distinctly remember the night of the 18th of January, 1837; for in the annals of that city it has never been equalled in severity. So intense was the cold that few persons ventured forth, and you might have walked many a square in that great metropolis without meeting another pedestrian. Save the occasional rumbling of passing carriage rapidly driven through the de serted streets to some place of amusement, or the strains of music from some illumipated mansion, where youth and beauty gaily danced away the roseate hours-silence reigned supreme. The deni- zens of those districts where squalid poverty like an unwearied sentinel kept watch, crept closer to the smouldering embers, or huddled beneath the scanty covering on their pallets of straw, counted the weary minutes that dragged their slow length towards the morrow's dawn.   10      CURRER LYE. But while the wintry blast swept in wild gusts along, penetrating the crevices of their miserable hovels, and striking the chill of death to many a poor wretches heart, there were homes of lux- ury and splendor, where the smallest b6jou would have been wealth to many a one starving be- neath their very shade. Assuming the writer's privilege, I will enter one of these abodes of splendor and raise the curtain of a lady's bou- doir-an unpardonable liberty, except in imagina- tion. Neither taste or elegance could have suggested an improvement in the decorations of the apart- ment where Peirce Lyle and his lovely young wife were cosily chatting away the long winter's eve- ning on the night of which I speak. The glowing fire diffused its genial warmth, and in a large velvet lounging-chair sat Peirce, while his wife, on a low ottoman at his feet,-lis- tened with deep interest to Madame de Stael's Corinne, which he was reading aloud. The soft rays of the astral lamp fell upon a small rosewood crib, beneath whose curtains of azure silk, his rosy cheek nestling in the pillows of eider down, lay a lovely boy of three summers, sleeping that slumber which only infancy can know, and, gazing upon him as he lay with the soft cambric night-robe delicately frilled with lace,   CURRER  LYE.       " thrown open, exposing the rounded throat and chest, as white as parian marble, the beautiful arms thrown over the embroidered covering, and the golden curls floating over the snowy pillow like rays of sunlight, one might well wander to the time where the shadows of past years still lin- ger like a hallowed dream around old fairy lore, and wonder if indeed the picture was an embodi- ment of life. The tiny French clock upon the mantel chimed the hour of eleven as Peirce closed the book, when the iron-tongue of the City Hall bell peal- ed forth the dread alarm, and the cry of Firel fire! rang out, breaking the stillness of the night, and, borne upon the fierce wind, echoed and re- echoed through the desolate streets. At the first stroke of the bell, Peirce started to his feet and stood intently listening; as the fifth died away upon the wind, he sprang into the adjoining apart- ment, and hastily flinging his cloak around him, with an injunction to his wife not to remain up for him, quitted the house. Hurrying on in the direction indicated by the crowds that already filled the streets, he soon reached Wall-street. A single glance sufficed to convince him that all exertion waS useless. The fire had originated on the square below his ware- house, and so rapidly had the flames spread, fanned   12      CURRER LYE. as they were by the furious blast, that not a hope remained to cheer the group of brother merchants who stood silently and anxiously watching with him their fearful progress. The whole fire de- partment were soon upon the ground, and, with their usual quickness of perception, realized the exigency, but, from existing circumstances, were unequal to its necessity. The river was frozen over, and not a drop of water could be drawn from the hydrants. A large body of men was despatched at once to cut away the ice and make an opening in the river, another to lay the hose, and the two most powerful engines were stationed at the old wharf to force the water through them up to the scene of the disaster. But in the time consumed for these preparitions, the devastating element had gained so entirely the ascendancy, that when all was ready for action, they could scarce tell where'to commence or how their assistance would be most effective. Vain were all their exertions: the freezing water choked the engines, and the hose, clogged with ice, became unmanageable. All night they toiled and battled manfully with the enemy,. The morning dawned, nor yet their labors ceased; and it was not till the shades of evening were closing again, and the whole lower part of the city was one vast sheet of flame, against which it was madness to contend, that   CURRER  LYE.       13 the noble and intrepid men ceased their unavail- ing endeavors. With a heavy heart Peirce Lyle retraced his steps homeward-a ruined man. Just four years had elapsed since succeeding his father in a large and lucrative business, he had commenced life as a merchant, with brighter prospects than gene- rally open to the vision of a young man just start- ing in the world. Married to a woman he adored, -for from a boy his ideal of female loveliness was invested with the form of the beautiful Kate Ellis- ton-and in making her his wife, he felt that he in- deed realized the brightest dream of his life. Bless- ed with a lovely boy, aind surrounded with every- thing that combines to make home a second para- dise, his hours had glided on as gently as the ripples of a sunlit stream.     - Now he felt that stream had reached the ocean, and henceforth his bark of fortune, which hitherto had glided on that calm river, must be launched amid the giant billows, and battle with their mighty : strength. In one night all had been swept away from him.  In common with thousands of his fel- low-men ruin had cast its shadow upon his threshold. But while his worldly possessions had perished, another treasure had been bestowed upon hin--   "     CURRER  LYE. another blossom had been borne by the angels from- the fair parterre of flowers that spring around the Saviour's throne of immortality, to bloom upon a mother's bosom. It would have been difficult to analyze his feelings, as he gazed upon this new pledge of affection, and kissed the baby brow just touched with the light of ex- 'istence. The hopes and fears struggling with a father's pride, the devoted love mingled with the deep agony, as came the thought that he must now de- prive those dear ones of the home, hallowed by the  recollections of many happy hours spent there, ere a single care had darkened the horizon of the future. As these emotions contended in his bosom, it seemed as though -a new ambition rose within him and drove them forth. :An aspira- tion he had never .known before, now filled his heart, and banished every cloud of sorrow from his brow. A  new field opened to his view, where gorgeous flowers bloomed on every side, but choked with weeds of indolence and waste. He  felt that he had been an idler in the bowers of literature, and, like a reckless spendthrift, had squandered and set at naught the powers that should have led to loftier aims than the mere enjoyment of animal existence or a sordid accumulation of wealth.   CURRER LYE.        15 Placing his infant daughter by her mother's side, Peirce turned away with the light of a great and noble resolution illuminating his countenance,  !f  A breathed a fervent prayer of gratitude to Heaven, and raised his voice in glad thanksgiving to "Him who doeth all things well." Still the mighty con- flagration raged in unabated fury, and amid the din of clanging bells and the hoarse voices of the struggling firemen, the crash of falling buildings, and the shouts of men, women, and children, CURRER LYE first opened her eyes in baby won-    -! der on the world. A memorable birth-night-      . perhaps an ominous one. Nous verrons. "   16      CURRER LYE. CHAPTER II. Tempora mutantur et nos mutamur cum illis." CAN we take a single drop of apparently limpid water and separate from it the myriads of animal- cule that, crowding even that finite particle of the terrestrial sphere, demonstrate the great and won- derful workings of nature? No! Then how much less can we resolve into distinctness the se- cret and mysterious promptings of the human heart, impalpable as it is to scrutiny-influenced by circumstances and swayed by influences of good or evil, according as the passions of the passing hour awaken their emotions-passions over which we can have no perceptible control, since man as he exists is but an instrument in the hands of an all-wise Providence, to disseminate and portray them, even as the marble, from whose gracefully sculptured shaft the gushing fountain showers its sparkling cooling stream, is but the frame-work enclosing the reservoir from which it springs. Men have lived a lifetime of agony in a single   CURRER LYE.        17 night-I speak figuratively, as metaphor best ex- presses that which I cannot literally convey. When a few short hours may plough deep furrows in the cheeks of youth, and cast the snows 9f wintry age upon the dark locks that cluster round the brow--  shall we then, with cold skepticism doubt, that in a few brief moments, the human heart, swayed as it is by the great master hand, may be capable of a great resolution, contrasted with which all former aspirations, how great soe'er, sink into comparative insignificance? The lofty ambition that, phoenix- like, spread its bright wings above the funeral pyre of Peirce Lyle's fortune, though born of a single moment, was founded on a basis firm as the rock- ribbed hills whose towering summits stand the cloud-girt monuments of ages past and gone- an ambition that should lend him strength to bat- tle manfully with the fickle waves of fortune, and bear up against the thousand contingencies that must arise in commencing, as it were, a new life, whose complicated avenues to him should be a labyrinth. But he had fixed his eye upon the goal, and, with an unshrinking spirit, he resolved never to swerve till he had reached it. When, at length, the mad element had been quelled, and men stood amid the smouldering em-. bers of the splendid structures it had cost years of labor to erect, gazing upon the fruits of a lifetime 29*   18 ?    CURRER  LYE. laid waste, and the ashes of many a princely for- tune scattered upon the four winds of heaven, there came another shock. Insurance companies in whom they trusted-as the shipwrecked mariner to the last plank that di- vides him from eternity-pressed on every side by claims far beyond the extent of their capital to meet, closed their doors and were whelmed in the general ruin. But those were days when the holy ties of Christian fellowship, like a golden chain, woven with the brightness of good deeds, no link defective, bound man to his brother man, so that when Peirce resolved not to sacrifice his home, but to preserve it sacred to the dear ones that it shel- tered, there were helping hands stretched forth on every side to raise the fallen merchant to the first step of renewed prosperity. Nobly rejecting all, save the temporary loan of a few hundreds, we find him in a few weeks domiciliated in a neat office in Wall-street, surrounded by musty tomes, a regu- larly installed disciple of Coke and 'Blackstone, in whose service he had graduated five years before, and only emerged from its professional duties at the earnest solicitations of friends, that he- would perpetuate his father's business name. Though the financial shock had been a most severe one, a city like New York, the great commercial mart of the New World, could not long   CURRER LYE         19 remain paralyzed by it, and in a few months busi- ness resumed its usual activity, leaving Peirce but little time for reflection. Briefs were not wanting in the young lawyer's office, and with them came the reputation dearer to him than all else besides -that of an honorable man. Ever espousing the-cause of those oppressed un- justly, without regard to personal aggrandizement or pecuniary emolument, steadily refusing to plead against his own convictions of right and justice, his high-souled honor and integrity, founded upon principle, not policy, won for him at once the con- fidence and respect of all, in the enjoyment of which, and a steadily increasing prosperity, four years glided almost imperceptibly away. With all the ardent enthusiasm of his nature, Peirce now brought every energy to bear in a great political contest then pending, and joining the popular party, soon became the warmest advocate of its platform. The articles emanating from his pen attracted the attention of the most prominent men in the country, by their bold and vigorous character. He was called upon to accept a nomi- nation and become a candidate for Senatorial hon- ors. Elected by a large majority, he took his seat in the House with the brightest hopes of his con- stituents, and a fearless and unswerving rectitude that told them he would not disappoint them. To   20      CURRER LYE. In the gay " salons" of Washington, Mrs. Lyle was the bright " particular star." Her bon- mots were pronounced sparkling, her toilette exquisite, her manner de bon go4t, and what Mrs. Kate Lyle wore and what she said were household words in every fashionable establishment. With the most childlike simplicity of manner- simple without gaucherie-Kate Lyle had been the lovely presiding deity of her husband's house, en- tertaining his friends with an ease and graceful re- pose of manner that charmed all hearts. Hitherto she had centred her affections in the narrow circle of that home, 'and lavished all the love of her young heart upon its treasures, as she was wont to call her husband and her children. How true it is, our natures may remain for years undeveloped even to ourselves, and feelings, emotions, and aspirations may lie slumbering in their silent depths, till aroused by some sudden revulsion, they swell forth and startle us to know how change makes change. Enthroned within the mimic world of domestic happiness, feeling the duties of a wife, and the great responsibility resting upon her to render back to Him who had grafted upon the parent stem those blossoms of immortality; an unsullied account of her guardianship, Kate had been all that a wife and mother should be, but now she had stepped across the wonted threshold to go forth into the   CURRER LYE.         21 wide world, leaving its quiet shadows, where her ssmile had dispensed sunbeams on all around, for the gay and gilded halls where mirth and revelry reigned supreme-herself the queen of fashion's tinseled court, dazzled by her butterfly subjects, she knew not while she wore the crown Folly wielded her sceptre, and-Ruin was the -self-consti- tuted prime minister, in whose favor she must eventually abdicate. She could not look beyond that brilliant pageantry, and feel that all its glitter- ing display was but the superficial barrier that di- vided her from the loftier aims and purposes of life; and though the stream of splendor was fair to look upon, she knew not on its deceitful tide she was gliding swiftly on to an abyss of wretchedness. Insensibly to herself, indifference for the society of her husband took the place of the old emotions, when his step had power to send the blood leaping gladly through her veins, and the quiet hours by her own fireside she would not. have foregone to have shared a throne where thousands bent in vas- salage. Her voice was heardno more at even-time, teaching the lisping infant tongues to syllable ", Our Father who art in Heaven," and hireling hands now supplied the place of a tender mother's care over those neglected little ones. If her conscience ever wakened for a moment to the sad change that had, like an insidious poison, stolen into her heart,   22      CURRER  LYE. in the whirl of excitement she lulled it to repose, nor heeded the inward monitor that otherwise would have saved her. In vain had Peirce expostulated, reasoned with her. In vain had he implored her to cease the dis- sipation that like a whirlpool was drawing her into its narrowing circle, where their peace must be en- gulfed forever. At first she listened calmly but without awaken- ing to a realization of her danger. As night after night was spent in the same ceaseless round of revelry, he renewed his efforts to win her back to duty, and entreaties gave place to passionate re- proaches that roused the demon in her nature, and in a moment of frenzy she forbade him to resume the subject or to monitor her again. From that hour a dark gulf rolled between her and her hus- band's heart, for Peirce had closed it against her, and estrangement had traced above its portal-for- ever A ?..    CURRER  LYE.       23 CHAPTER III Ce n'est que le premier pas qui coute.  IT was a winter's night, and the howling wind, swept along in its free course, with a sound that drew many a chair closer to the cheerful fireside, and raised many a voice in grateful praise to Him who had in his mercy not only " tempered it to the shorn lamb," but placed them beneath a shelter from its fury. Oh, winds of midnight! upon thy invisible wings thou bearest a fearful burthen! The widow's wail over the clay-cold form of her earthly protec- tor-the deep sigh that bursts from the bosom of remorse--the orphan's cry--the maniac's wilder- ing scream-the last breath that heaves the bosom of expiring humanity as the lamp of life is darken- ed beneath the shadowy pinions of death, never to be relumedj till the spirits of gloom, assum- ing shape, shall rise to meet the great host of Earth and Heaven at that fearful tribunal where   24      CURRER LYE. justice, truth and merc, trio-twined, melt into the halo of immortality-joy and sorrow, guilt and in- nocence, each their tribute rendering to mingle with the blended wail thou bearest to the distant shore whose mystery 'tis thine alone to penetrate. On such a night we raise once more the mystic cur- tain, and stand upon the threshold of Kate Lyle's boudoir. Before a large cheval mirror bathed in a flood of light from the superb chandelier, whose delicate drooping frost-work of glass, spangled with a myriad of rainbow hues scintil- lating like the waves of ocean caught by the liquid phosphor-stood Kate Lyle, dressed for a brilliant masquerade. Verv lovely was the re- flection her mirror gave forth, but it brought no flush of pleasure to her cheek. The costume she had selected was one well designed to display her queenly form and heighten charms so radiant as hers. A loose flowingrobe of emerald velvet con- fined at the waist by a jewelled zone, and drawn from each delicately rounded shoulder by diamond clasps, leaving the armsibare, save where the bands -of massive gold encircled them, defining the lovely taper of the-wrist like a slanting sunbeam on a wreath of snow. The wealth of her night black hair folded intoh massive coil around her small but intellectually formed head, was fastened by a glit- tering serpent in whose ruby eyes the concentrated '        .    CURRER LYE.         25 light flashed like a fitful .flame. -One small hand rested on the gilded toilet, while the other was  pressed against her heart as. though to still its tumultuous beatings. The chiselled lips compressed and the knitted'- brow bespoke some inward agony of soul-a strug-  gle between herself and some evil passion, that was bearing her on to that dark gulf of misery where. human sympathy comes too late. As she stood  there contrasting the peaceful enjoyments of the past with the hollow mockery of the-nightly scenes  of dissipation-in which she mingled, and weighed the deep devotion of a husband's love, with the adulation of the poor waifs of society that flutter- ed their wings within the dangerous rays of each new light that shone in the artificial meridian of fashion, the promptings of her heart were to seek that husband, fling herself at his feet, and in for- giveness of the past build the joyous hopes of a  new and brighter future. But, like a dark cloud     I of blighting influence, rose the pride of an evil spirit, which sweepingthese-generous impulses away, left her the slave of passion, tossed upon the sea of discordant emotions-reckless, uncontrolled and desperate. Her reveries were broken by the announcement  of her carriage, and hastily flinging her opera cloak around her, pausing but a moment as she passed A3\                *i   26      CUR1RER LYE. the library, as though intently listening, while the old time tenderness swept across her beautiful face with a sigh that sent a shudder to the heart even of the menial who attended her, she passed on, and entering the carriage, was driven to the festive scene, while the angel of death hovered above her home, and the life of little Currer Lyle flickered like a wasting taper beneath its shade. In the library sat Peirce bending over the couch of pain and listening to the moans of the suffering child whose fevered brow and burning lips told of the agony that racked the tiny frame. At his feet, gazing up into his face with mute but eloquent commiseration, sat Charlie, ever and anon peeping through the silken curtain folds to gaze upon the little sister, whose sunken eyes, pallid cheeks, and discolored lips, striking terror to his childish fancy, 'would make him shrink away and draw closer to his father's knee, as though he felt they were alone-in sorrow and in sympathy. As the stroke of ten echoed through the lonely room, whose silence was unbroken save by the moans of the little sufferer, the physician entered, and drawing aside the curtains, press- ed the little wrist, while a shade darkened up- on his features, which, speaking instinctively to the father's heart, cast upon his features an ex- pression that, in its utter hopelessness, was fearful to look upon.   CURRER   LYE.        27 "Mr. Lyle," said Dr. Carey, taking his hand and pressing it tenderly, " here there is life there 'is hope: two hours will bring the crisis of your  child's disease. All that could be done has been, and we must now await the result.   Where is Mrs. Lyle?" A deep sigh, that seemed to rend the very frame of the strong man, burst from his bosom as he re- plied, ," My wife' is at a ball this evening, doctor." A contemptuous smile wreathed the doctor's lips as he said, somewhat imperatively, "Her duty as a mother calls her to the bedside of this child: let her be sent for at once; it is proper she should be here."' A messenger was at his orders dispatched, but  ere Mrs. Lyle returned the crisis had passed, and the little one, with scarce a glimmering of life, weak and faint with the long agony of pain, lay still, unconscious, but out of danger, and with the care and solicitude which Peirce would, without a- doubt, bestow upon her, would soon recover her health and strength. 'Oh! Currer Lyle, well had it been for thee, hadst thou yielded thy guileless spirit to Him who gave it. Then shouldst thou have joined in spotless-- purity the bright angel host of heaven, and in that starry choir have trilled forth the praises of Him who rules the universe, and crowns his- chosenw ones with the halo of his love. ,         ','::ii t r ......... m,A)!   28      CURRER   LYE. CHAPTER IV. SLOWLY returning health brought not the roses to the cheek of Currer Lyle, but it was hap- piness to Peirce even to watch the wasted little form as it glided softly to his side, and nestling at his knee, the sweet face upturned to his, with a deep sadness brooding in the soft gray eyes, wa- kened the gushing spring of sympathy and love within his breasts and strengthened the holy tie between them, till, in reviewing the past, -he felt that there were griefs so beautiful in their silent agony, that it was sinfill to repine at what had once been so full of bitterness to him. Currer Lyle was not beautiful--for with me the beauty of childhood is in its sweet simplicity and guileless, mirthful freedom, that tells of hours winged with roseate hues and pulses dancing in healthful motion to' the music of tuneful nature, vibrating in a heart that never yet hath been darkened by a care.   CURRER LYE.         29 There are few children, in these days of modern  improvement. Fashion, with her innovations, has  rendered the term child, as once received and un- derstood, either the ideal picture of a creative    ? brain, or a myth quite as obsolete and tradition- ary as any in ancient heathen lore. The little Miss of seven summers trips daintily down the sunny side of Broadway with a bonnet as ne-ar like mamma's as the milliner could fashion so tiny a shell, and the pointed bodice fitted to the yet undeveloped form by the skilful French mnodiste, with its bristling array of bones, bids defiance to  health, and a hearty welcome to incipient con- sumption and fashionable metallic burial-cases.  The tiny boots, that might well rival in size the   T slipper of the fabulous Cinderella, are soled with something of the consistency of a sheet of paper, but must have heels upon them a half inch high at least. And the- little victim of fashion, and a  foolish, weak-minded mother, totters along the street with a mincing gait and saucy air-in striking  contrast to the children of twenty years ago, when  the muslin robe, girded at the waist, the free flow- ing ringlets and rosy cheeks shaded by the broad- leafed hat, from which the bright roguish eye peeped forth. like violets from an oak-tree shade,   A formed a picture that the eye loved to rest upon,   30      C' U II 31i n R 1 Y L E. and the clear ringing laughter, like woodland mu- sic, was refreshing in its simple wild melody. Ki-nd reader, forgive my irrelevance, but the poetry of childhood is, with me, so inseparably associated with pantaletts, that I cannot refrain from heaving a sigh that they no longer reign in babydom. Peirce Lyle called his little daughter the child-Woman, and such, indeed, she seemed, with her pale intellectual brow, where the blue veins strayed, like the delicate tints of pearl- shell; the perfectly chiselled mouth, where a lin- gering expression of sadness ever wreathed, and the smile but seldom chased away its gloom. With the most painfully delicate nervous organi- zation, rendering her sensitive to the slightest re- proof, and affected at every shade that passed across the brow of her father, she combined an energy of will and a firm, unbending pride, that, inherited as it was from- Peirce, rendered her pre- maturely developed character but a strong rqflec- tion of his own. The strange confidence existing between a fra- gile child of seven summers, and the. man whose brilliant intellect commanded the admiration of thousands, was a beautiful illustration of the power of one superior mind even in its chrysalis state over another in the full splendor of its development, when linked by that assimilation of ideas and con-   CURRER LYE.         81  geniality of sentiment which intuitive perception  on the part of thehild had established between them. Of so sensitive and-reserved a disposition  was she, Peirce shrank from placing her under the educational system of a stranger, and decided upon  becoming himself her tutor. This self-imposed labor of love was far from being either irksome or difficult, for the pupil's ability to learn kept equal pace with his to teach, and, grasping each vague  idea, would analyze with a vigor that was as start- ling as it was wonderful. Frequent attacks of ill- ness now brought with them the conviction that the delicate frame was too fragile for the activity of the mind-books were prohibited and change of air prescribed.             - A neat cottage, but a few hours ride from the city, where the air swept from the mountains of  Virginia and came laden with freshness and in- vigorating purity, was selected bv Peirce, and here he was desirous of removing his family at once, for  ; with increasing anxiety he traced the daily inroads of disease in the sunken eye and drooping figure  of Currer, and trusting much to retirement and  perfect repose to effect a cure, he urged the import- ance of their immediate departure from 'town. "Really, Mr. Lyle, I do not feel inclined to leave the city in the height of the season, and im-  nure myself in a country house because you choose   )    32  .   - CCURRER LYE. to designate the peevish caprices of a spoiled child a serious indisposition."  Peirce made no reply to this heartless address, but as he glanced from his paper at the little sleeper, who lay upon a lounge at his side, and marked the hectic flush upon the wan face, an ex- pression of despair settled upon his countenance, and he turned away to hide the emotion he could not control. "If Currer is really sick," pursued his wife, "there are plenty of comfortable farm-houses where we can place her, and she will be much happier and far less likely to'have her disposition ruined by over indulgence." Stung to desperation by her coldness and indif- ference, Peirce bent upon her a gaze so withering in its rigid sternness, that she quailed before it, and her eyes involuntarily sought the ground. "Madam," he replied, "when you made your choice between the slavish degradation which cha- racterizes a life of dissipation and frivolity like yours, and your sacred duties as a wife and mother, I nolonger recognized your privilege to direct the expanding minds of our children, for I dreaded the pernicious influence of your example over their unformed tastes and habits. Your interference now I will not brook;. therefore, never let this subject be revived between us. In three days I shall re-   CURRER  LYE.       33 move them. Now I would like to be alone, nor    a should I desire to detain you from the festive scene where your smiles diffuse so much radiance."  As he spoke this in a tone of blighting sarcasm, a deadly pallor overspread her features. The veins ^ upon her brow were swollen into discolored ridges, and the teeth firmly set upon the lip from whichl the blood streamed: her whole form dilated, and  the clenched hand and flashing eyes told of the fearful passion that was raging like a volcano, and- the fierce struggle with her pride, which bade her die rather than reveal by word the agony that con- sumed her. With the same curling lip and insulting polite-' ness, Peirce arose, and opening the door, gracefully waved her from the apartment. Gathering the folds of her mantle around her, and bending upon him a mingled look of defiance and reproach, Kate Lyle swept from the room, murmuring-"'Tis well-'tis very well."    -  -  :ii ' r   384     CURRER- LYE. CHAPTER' V.  THE splendid parlors of Mrs. Gordon Stevens were illuminated and hung with festoons of rare exotics whose perfume, stealing o'er the senses with the strains of music to which the lovely forms floated softly through the mazes of the dance, made. the scene almost one of enchantment. In the embrasure of a window that overlooked a long avenue bordered with flowers, whose fra- grance, wafted by the light breeze, was fitting in- cense- offered to the shrine of beauty, stood Kate Lyle. The pale moonbeams, straying through the foliage of the lawn, fell upon her face and revealed the same ghastly and rigid expression that it wore an hour before 'when she had crossed the threshold of her husband's library. Had Peirce Lyle spoken but one kind word in that moment, the towering pride of that haughty self-willed woman would have bowed before it   CURRER LYE.        35  like a reed before the blast-she w'uld have fallen at his feet, wept tears of joy, and in restored love and confidence, many a year of happiness would : have been-theirs. But reckless adventurers are we, in the great game of life, taking our fearful hazards and losing the golden moment that decides a destiny which, once darkened, like lost pleiads in the sky of fate, come no more to bid us borrow from them rays of brightness to relume the -path that perchance our own folly has clouded in the shade of sorrow.  Very wretched was Kate as she stood there in the pallid moonlight and recalled past hours of happi-  ness when not a thought trembled in her heart that her husband did not share--not a scene, however lovely, but lost its power to charm if he were   ! absent from her side. Her reverie was broken by a light tap upon her shoulder, and, turning quickly, her eyes met the impassioned gaze of Rasheigh Gordon. In an instant the tell-tale blood, till now a truant, mantled over her brow and cheek, while a bright tear-drop glistened upon her long lashes like dew upon the fringed gentian. Rasheigh marked the blush, and an expression of triumph swept across his fine face. It was but  momentary, however, for when Kate had recovered her self-possession and returned his glance, a qn   36      CURRER  LYE. supercilious smile wreathed his lip, and the easy jest blended with slight sarcasm left no trace oi emotion visible. "Are you standing enpose for a statue of Niobe, Mrs. Lyle, or are you striving to eclipse yonder bright constellations by the lustre of your eyes?" "Neither one or the other," retorted Kate: "as you awakened me I was dreaming of a paradise where no flatterers were allowed to enter." "In that case, it would be to your sex like Dante's inscription over the gates of the lower region. By the way, where is your gallant husband this evening?" Kate's voice was slightly tremulous as she re- plied, "Mr. Lyle is at home to-night: he is some- what indisposed, and as Currer is much better company for him than I am, I left him to enjoy it." "Ah! I sincerely regret that he is ill. By the way, have you read Lady Bulwer's Deserted life .P' The same pallor overspread her face at this pointed insolence, but she had not the courage to throw off the dangerous spell the fascinations of Rasheigh Gordori were hourly weaving to enmesh her honor, by resenting at once the insulting in- sinuation. With the quick instinct of a man of the world, he read her thought and exulted in the,   CURRE R LYE.        37 struggle of the haughty woman's pride with the     i love that was slowly but surely gathering in her bosom. "You are agitated; let us enter the drawing- rooms." Observing that she leant heavily upon his arm, he stopped as they passed a small beaufet, and, pouring a goblet of sparkling wine, held it to her lips. Almost unconsciously Kate drained 'it of its exhilarating contents--and in an hour after, Rasheigh at a distance watched her, the centre of a group who hung upon her witticisms and brilliant  conversation, charmed without knowing why they were so. Never had Rasheigh Gordon admired as much as at that moment. On that night Kate had made her toilet in the vague hope that Peirce zmight ask her to remain at home; it was characterized, therefore, by elegant  simplicity.: A dress rich but plain--white silk with no ornaments save a band of pearls around her throat, a spray of bright scarlet geranium, carelessly disposed in her glossy hair, which was arranged in a coffure that few, save Kate, might have ventured to wear with impunity. Smoothly banded back defining the whole contour of the face, it was gathered in a shining fold at the side- of her head, and from thence a mass of. heavy tresses swept' over one shoulder, leaving the other 4 i .   38      CURRER LYE. entirely without ornament. Its novelty was its beauty, and well did it become -her as she stood amid that gay throng with the light flashing from her dark eyes, and the color on her cheek now deepening, now receding, as she caught the fixed glance of Rasheigh as he moved amid his mother's distinguished guests, with his commanding figure, noble face, and his elegantly graceful bearing, the observed of all, the courted, pampered child of 'fortune, whose gifts he .scorned and lavished on every side with a prodigality that seemed more like display than a real desire of gratification. That Kate loved him he was confident, and tha-t she was unhappy, one far less penetrating than he might easily have discovered. An unprincipled and reckless man, he had resolved upon her ruin, and waited but for the storm to break and darken the sunshine of her domestic peace, while it should be his care to feed. the flame of discord, and poison the very atmosphere she breathed with his biting sarcasm and sneering bitterness at what he was pleased to term her husband's neglect. Could Kate have gazed upon that husband as he sat in the dim library, where She had left him in his loneliness, and beheld the proud man with his head drooping on his breast, and the whole frame convulsed with agony, while the little pale-faced child crept to his knee; and twining her   CURRER LYE.         89 tiny fingers in his hair, sobbed, "Don't cry-mam- ma will come back again." ' Could she have gazed upon that picture, she would fled from the yawn-  ing gulf of misery that rolled its turbid waters at her feet, and have been spared the trial of its fear- ful depths. As Mrs. Gordon's supper rooms were thrown open, Rasheigh offered his arm to Kate, but pleading fatigue, she sank into afauteuil, and as the wonted sadness gleamed in her eyes, deeming the moment a favorable one, he proposed a seat in the lawn, that they might enjoy the moonlight. Assenting read- ily, he led her to the end of the avenue, and enter- ing a small Grecian summer-house, almost veiled by a multiflora with its countless roses, through which the bright rays of- the moon stealing softly e  in, lay like a fret-work of silver on the floor, they seated themselves, and some moments elapsed be- fore either broke the stillness that seemed to hal- low the spot in quiet beauty.  "You are sad to-night," said Rasheigh. A deep sigh alone made answer, and he resumed:  "Why will you not confide your sorrows to me, Kate? It is true, I am acquainted with them, but through the scand'al of the town, and from such a spring I would not draw my information. Surely you are not afraid to trust me?  "Call you wonder that I am sad, when I contrast  ii :1ii   40      CURRER LYE. the past with the present, and remembering how such a festive scene as this had power once to riake my heart throb with pleasure, and now I can only call a smile upon my lip, while that heart writhes beneath the torture of the effort that it costs?" "Why, then, do you go into society, when it has no longer a charm for you?" "Because I will not be humbled by him. I would die rather than he should know I suffered. No, no; he may insult me with his coldness, tor- ture me with his cruel taunts, but I can be firm and proud as he, and he shall see it, too. Oh! he shall feel it deeply-truly feel it!" The same light triumphantly illumined Rasheigh Gordon's countenance as Kate sank back exhausted with this paroxysm of passion, and casting all the impassioned fervor of his nature in his voice, he replied: "Listen to mne, lIate. I love you; leave the husband who can not realize your worth, who casts you from his heart like a toy of which he has grown weary; be mine, and in three days we will be bounding o'er the waves to some distant sunny clime, where our lives shall be one long dream of happiness, and all these cares and sorrows be for- gotten." Slowly Kate Lyle rose to her feet, and her ma jestic figure seemed to borrow height as she levelled ,*'   CURRER LYE.         41 upon him one look of withering scorn, that made him shrink abashed, and his bold eves seek the ground, unable to meet the proud light of virtue that gleamed in hers. "You are very kind, Rasheigh Gordon, in thus counseling me to give my husband's name to dis- honor-to blast, with the blighting breath of a mother's shame, two lovely children. It is 'gener- ous-it is noble in you, and deserves from me an ansWer. Know, sir, that though I may be cast from that husband's heart, it still is to me like some sacred shrine, and the, thought that I have once been its worshipped idol shall keep the tem- ,ple unprofaned, and the light of love that once shone on me from its pure depths will beam in mine until my pulse ceases to throb. Infamy and his noble soul shall still be strangers, while it rests with me to keep it untarnished. Farewell, sir." Slowly she glided up the long avenue, and, en- tering the house, was lost to his view ere he had time to recover from his astonishment. Hurrying to his mother's boudoir, he hastily flung open her escritoire, and penning a few lines, handed them to  the servant who was about attending Kate to her carriage, with a whispered injunction to give them to no one but his mistress. Rasheigh heard   ? the carriage roll away with the same look of exult- )            -   .,   ','-*   42      CURRER  LYE. ation, and murmuring "I will win her yet" re- entered the house. Kate scarce heeded when the carriage stopped before her own door, so wrapt was she in her thoughts; and as the man assisted her to alight, she was unconscious that he had pressed into her hand the little note that Gordon had written. Ascending the stairs, she felt an inclination to enter the library so irresistible that'she could not con- trol it. Softly opening the door she bent over the form of Peirce, who lay upon the lounge with Cur- rer's head pillowed upon his breast. As her eye rested upon the child, a shudder and an involun- tary expression of pain passed over her beautiful face. Lightly pressing her lips to her husband's brow, she glided from the apartment as noiselessly as she had entered, without perceiving the note that had fallen from her hand and lay upon the arm of Currer.   CURRER LYE.        43.  CHAPTER VI. As the fresh morning breeze, stirring through the drooping jessamines that wreathed the casement, played through the chamber, wafting the fra-  grance from the countless blossoms, Peirce awa-  kened from a feverish dream, and bending over the still sleeping child with anxious tenderness, he discovered, nestling amid the sunny curls, the  tiny billet that Rasheigh Gordon had addressed to Kate. A death-like pallor overspread his fea-  tures, as, by the dim light of the opening day, he perused these words: "IKate Lyle, you have repulsed me, and even now you are struggling between your fancied re- sentment at what your lips would term an insult, whilst your heart belied its truth, ere you had syllabled the word. I still await your change of determination, confident that ere long, the neglect of him, so unworthy to be the lord of such peer- w-. t S 1   "      CURRER LYE. less beauty, will drive you to seek refuge upon the bosom of your adorer. "RASHLEIGH GORDON."7 With clenched hands and uneven steps, Peirce paced the room, evidently striving to control the fearful emotion that convulsed his bosom. Touch- ing the bell, his hasty-summons was answered by the old nurse, upon whom, in his absence, the care of Currer entirely devolved, and pointing to the child, he passed from the apartment. His knock being unanswered, he entered the chamber of his wife. Although the early sunlight was stealing through the half-closed venitians, the lights in the chan- delier were still-burning, with a gloom rendered sickly by the contrast. Articles of bzjoeuterie were scattered carelessly around, and on a lounge, with the wealth of her night-black hair unbound and scattered in wild disorder over its crimson cush- ions, whose ruddy hues contrasted painfully with the marble paleness of her face, lay Kate Lyle. The jewels were still clasped upon her arms, and a loose robe of pale blue silk, evidently flung around her in utter disregard, betrayed that she had not been aft rest. The traces of tears were moist upon ler cheeks; yet, as Peirce marked the ravages of grief and dissipation indelibly im-   CURRER LYE.       .  45 pressed upon the beautiful face,. he felt no throb of pity agitate his breast. As he stepped forward to awake her, a sound as of something crushed beneath his feet, arrested him. Stooping, he pick-  ed the bauble from the floor; it was the jeweied serpent Kate was wont to twine amid the folds of her shining hair. A shudder passed over him as he gazed upon it, and flinging it from him, he  hastily aroused her. Ere she could utter the ex- clamation of surprise that trembled upon her lip, she was awed to silence by the stern demand' of her husband that she should reveal to him all that had transpired between herself and Rash- leigh Gordon on the preceding evening. In the wildness of despair, she flung herself at   : his feet, and besought him to spare her the hu- miliation of repeating it, and once more take her to his bosom; for in his eye she read the firm resolution to resent, with his life, if necessary, the 1 insult offered to his honor. "Rise, madam, and calm yourself, that from your own lips I may learn the full history of this affair."                        X "Oh! Peirce-husband-you shall know all; only say that you will forgive my past follies. I    X will abjure the society now grown hateful to me,  and in the quiet of our own home circle, renew  '-  the happy hours of the past." -  ,              1   "     CURRER LYE. ' It would be a rich feast for the scandal-loving world, madam, when they could point at me the finger of scorn, and in derision mock at the poor dolt who was compelled to seclude his beautiful wife from the fascinations of the dashing libertine, Rasheigh Gordon. I will not trouble you to re! peat to me your conversation with him at his mother's last*night, since this note, which, by some unaccountable agency, found its way into my study, and was discovered there this morning, fully explains the nature of that conversation." Handing her the note, Peirce stood with folded arms and sneering smile gazing upon her as she perused it. Hastily glancing over it, Kate uttered a piercing scream, and fell fainting at his feet. He did rnot stoop to raise her, nor did he bend his eye upon the face where agony was so fearfully imprinted, but, turning to the adjoining apart- ment, he summoned her maid to attend her, and returned to the library, where, hastily penning a few lines to a friend, requesting him at once to meet him at his office, and dispatching a letter to the principal of the academy, where little Charlie had been placed some months previous, he gave orders to an old and trusty servant to drive out for him at once. Before evening a challenge had been sent, and a meeting arranged for the ensuing morning.   CURRER LYE.        47  All that long, dreary day, Kate Lyle had lain  fainting in the arms of her attendant, or paced the floor wtlNfrantic cries, calling upon her husband.  Thrice she sent to Rasheigh Gordon, imploring him to avoid the meeting; blit, though he was an unprincipled man, still he was not a coward, and he heeded not her prayers. Poor little Currer, with the instinct of a quick  perception, knew that some fearful sorrow had laid its shadow on the threshold; with trembling limbs she stole into her mother's chamber, and laying her tiny hand upon her cheek, sobbed out,  "Don't cry, mama l" But Kate could not look: upon the child; and those around, perceiving that   ; to see her only increased 'the frightful paroxysms under which she labored, removed her from the room, and directed the nurse to keep her from again returning.  Currer's was a will that could not be held in re-  straint; hence, a look from her father would  check at once a strong impulse, while to the ser- vants who endeavored to control her, she assumed   - a haughty defiance, that though, almost babe as  she was, gave her' a power over them, that they  could not define.  She had heard them say she must be kept from; her mother, and though she would brook no in-'-  terference on the part of her nurse, she obeyed  * ve2 e ' 1X   %f   48   G. URRER LYE. 'the mandate so imperatively issued; but ever and anon, stealing noiselessly -to the door, although she dared not enter, she would listen to know if she were better, and from broken sentences Curr rer learned that danger threatened her father. No tears dimmed her eyes, but her face was ashy pale, and an anxious expression contracted the little brow. Yet she did not ask of him when he would return. Eagerly she listened for his foot- steps: hour after hour dragged its slow length along, yet he came not; but she breathed not his name; and when the dial pointed to nine, holding her breath almost, as, listening with painful eager- ness, she caught the echo of his footsteps ringing upon the pavement, and with her little weak hands sought to unfasten the door. No sound escaped her lips when his well-known form met her eye, and once more she nestled her little head upon his bosom. Cling close to that breast to-night, Currer Lyle, for 'tis the last time he shall ever fold thee in his arms: the love-light shall gleam no more upon thee from those dear eyes, and the voice of kind- ness shall fall no more upon thine ear. The wide, wide world, with all its -many lights and shades, its cares, its trials, and its joys, though few be A:d'- they, lies, like a vast moving panorama, open to thy baby view.   CURRER -LYE.        49  The angel of death stands like a sentinel and circles thy home with the shadowy girdle of the spirit-land.  Thy fragile bark shall, in a few short hours be launched, all pilotless, to buffet with the mountain  billows of the vast ocean of life. The cold tomb  shall close upon the fresh impulses of thy young heart, and the urn and funeral pall shall mark the ashes of hope that once lit thy bosom with its light glowing flame, now, alas! never to be re- lumed in the desolate chambers it once made glad by its dear presence.  Henceforth thou shalt seldom hear the voice of sympathy and love.                   :i Thy trials shall be great and thy rewards but few; many shall be thy temptations and no pro- tecting arm shall shield thee from insult and oppres- sion. Fate shall lay in darkness upon thy pathway, and thy steps shall falter in the gloom. Well mayst thou clasp thy little arms around his neck, who now holds thee in his arms so tenderly, for the placid sleep that rests upon thine eyelids now shall never close them more. Thou shalt awake to-morrow to miss the fond embrace and gentle smile that ne'er shall greet thee more; the arms that now so tenderly encircle thy fragile little form shall be folded upon the bosom over the heart that 3     -t   50      CURRER LYE. shall throb for thee no more, and the light of life shall have gone out from those dear eyes forever. Sleep on, Currer Lyle, sleep on, for thou shalt wake so friendless and forlorn 'twere well for tlee couldst thou sleep forever.   CURRER LYE.        51  CHAPTER    VII. ALL the long weary night Kate lingered insen- sible to the misery that awaited her--while Peirce, holding Currer in his arms, lulled her into a gentle slumber. But ever and anon the little hands would clasp around his neck, as though an in- stinctive dread of danger prompted her to cling to him even in her sleep. As the day began to glim-  mer through the half-closed window, he tenderly loosed her grasp and laid her upon the lounge; then opening a small rose-wood desk, he took forth a miniature of Kate and a long waving tress of   i shining hair. As he gazed upon that little, me- mento, a glistening tear fell upon it like a bright star in the wide waste of midnight. He remembered well the moment when, sitting with her at twilight's dreamy hour, a few. short days after their marriage, it had strayed lovingly. from its confines, and laid upon her neck. Playfully she severed it, and giving it into his hand, bade him: never to part with it until he ceased to love her.  '           1:: "Ino   52      CURRER LYE. As the dear memories of happier hours came crowding thick and fast upon him, he hastily traced these lines: Kate, my own dear Wife:-A few short mo- ments, and I shall depart upon a journey from which I never may return, for mine is an errand of life or death / "Should I fall, you will in these few lines read my full forgiveness of the past. "I know that you will mourn for me, and let the first bright unclouded moments of our wedded life alone linger about your heart, and the happi- ness of such a memory will banish the bitter re- flections of later years. Kate! my wife! I charge you by our once pure love-I implore you by its undying light--be to the dear ones I leave to your care, all that a father has been, all that a mother can be. "Of our little Currer, you know all that I would say; and of our boy, too, be a watchful guardian. I leave you free of worldly care. And now, once more, farewell! (Signed)    "PEIRCE." As he folded and sealed the little package, an old servant entered with little Charlie. Peirce folded the manly little fellow in his arms, kissed   CURRER LYE.        53 the sunny ringlets that floated over the brow, and motioned the old man to take him away. Obeying him, the servant led the boy from the library-but ere the door closed upon him re-entered.  He had been in the employ of Peirce Lyle's father, and to him only had Peirce confided the arrangement of a meeting between himself and  Gordon.  -  With trembling steps he returned to the library, followed by an :old dog-the playfellow of Peirce's boyish days.  Brushing the tears from his eyes, with broken voice he asked,-"If you should not return again, what shall I do with Argus?"Peirce could not trust himself to speak, but, pointing to .Currer, turned away to conceal his emotion. The announcement of the carriage and the coming day warned Peirce that he had lingered too long already, and controlling his impulse to clasp the sleeping child to his bosom, for he feared to awaken her, he hurried out. Pausing at his wife's  chamber door, he listened, and hearing no sound, entered the room; making a gesture of silence to the attendants, and bending over the almost life- less form of Kate, "Thank Heaven, she sleeps," he murmured, "she will waken, alas! soon enough, and yet, per- chance, too late /- Another moment, and the * 'i   54      CURRKER  LYE. rumbling of the carriage, breaking the stillness of the quiet street, announced his departure. A few miles brought them to the outskirts of the city, and Peirce drank in the morning air that -wandering through shaded woods and fields that waved in the wealth of their tasseled grain-came ladened with the sweet perfume of nature. ,The birds were just flitting from spray to spray, trilling forth their wild music-the husbandmen were bending their steps to the harvest field-eve- rything teemed with life and beauty. If Peirce cast one thought to the bright things he was leaving to enter the darl valley within whose shadow the future lies buried, it was not a regretful one; for with him life had lost its charm, and but one tie remained to bind him to earth-his little daughter. Yet, to a false code of honor was he sacrificing the existence that should have guided that fragile sensitive flower, and developed the rich treasures of an intellect brilliant even in childhood, leaving her to buffet the cold, heartless world, with none to speak the word of kindly sympathy, or cheer the flagging spirit on its long dreary journey through the avenues of life. Arriving at the ground selected, a beautiful val- ley between two hills, where the dark foliage com-   CURRER LYE.,        55  pletely curtained them as they stood, Peirce found  the party already assembled. Rasheigh Gordon was pale, almost to ghastli- ness, but cool and self-possessed, while his friends,  consisting of a hal dozen reckless, dissolute young roues, were drinkingnd carelessly laying wagers  as to which would prove the," best shot."  The distance was measured, and as the seconds    X proceeded to place them, Gordon crossed and ex-  tending his hand to Peirce, said, "Peirce Lyle,  your wife is innocent, and should I fall, think you have listened to a dying man who now tells you  that she rebuked his insolence as he deserved." "I believe you, Gordon, but it is too late to re-  cede;" he grasped his hand and shook it heartily as  Gordon, bowing, crossed to his place. The word was given, and as Peirce wheeled, the  report of both pistols echoed through the valley, and reverberated 'mid the hills with frightful dis- tinctness.  Ere it died away Peirce Lyle had fallen into the  arms of his second, while the life-blood, gushing from his heart, dyed the greensward at his feet.  At that moment Currer awakened, worse than orphaned, and her mother to a fearful widowhood. The surgeon in attendance pronounced life ex- tinct, and now the party, partially sobered by the melancholy termination of the affair, debated as to   56      CURRKER LYE. the practicability of getting the body to the city undetected by the vigilance of the authorities. Yielding to the importunities of his second, Rash- leigh suffered himself to be at once led to the car. riage, and was soon on his way to New York, -whence, in a few days, he would sail for the Conti- nent to escape the consequences of the duel.   CURRER LYE.        57 CHAPTER VIII.  AFTER Rasheigh Gordon's departure, partly to banish reflection, but more through obedience to a , reckless spirit, which now seemed to pervade the party, the wine flowed freely, and while the body of Peirce Lyle lay beneath the shadow of a tree,  clasped in the cold- embrace of- death, the bacchan-  alian song and ribald jest broke the solemn still- ness of the place, and an observer of the scene might well have deemed that fiends had escaped from darker regions, and were holding their mad revels in this secluded spot. ' When the shades of evening began to shroud the valley in gloom, the now thoroughly inebriated group prepared to return to the city. The car-  riages were drawn up, and Peirce, lifted from the ground, was quickly muffled in cap and cloak, and amid shouts of laughter, placed in the carriage, in a sitting posture. Three of these demons in human form, occupied the other seats, and there, with this bleeding,  2 ghastly corse staring them in the face, they passed 3*   58      CURRE 1   LYE. along the same road that Peirce had taken on that morning, when, full of life and health, he had gone to sacrifice that existence, or avenge his insulted honor. How wisely do we judge of one another I We shudder at the Hindoo mother, who casts her child into the waters to appease some angry god, or at the poor wretches who cast themselves beneath the painted car of Juggernaut, yielding themselves in blind idolatry to destruction; and gazing down the long vistas of the past and vanished years, through many a page of old historic lore, we tremble at the barbarities of the darker ages, ere the glories of religion had broken their gloom, and flooded the world in the radiance of its golden sunlight. Yet here, where civilization has reared aloft its vast canopy of splendor, and enlightenment soars on its luminous wings up to the very stars-where education, with her magic wand, has touched the hearts of men and exalted their reasons with her refining influence, where improvement's gigantic power annihilates time and space, surrounded by the wisdom of sages and the works of the evange- lists of art; here in our midst we tolerate a hydra more monstrous than heathen custom ever in its wondrous fertility created. i Rome, in her declining days, when the vast Col- iseum rang with the acclamations of admiring   CURRER LYE.        59 thousands, as the athlete gladiators bounded into  .  the arena-Rome had her Telemachus, an un-  daunted man, who, beneath that colossal dome,  called upon assembled Romans never more to stain that reeking soil with blood, never more to  profane the image of the living God ih such un- hallowed combat. What though he stood where - death-bolts, hurled from the hands of an, infuriated - populace, compassed him with terror on every side!  What though he stood with front sublime to per-    1 ish! He perished not in vain; not for the mar- tyr's crown opposed he his slight frame to the hen- zied fury of that Scene ; not for the wreath of fame, whose brightest leaves were bathed in the death damps on his brow ;* but then, and there, to oblit-  erate a foul, a barbarous, and bloody creed.  The glory of the "Campus AJmartl s" has passed away, and the Forum is no more. Every splendid    :J pile that once jutted from the steep Tarpeian's side, has tumbled to decay. The. Cirque lies in ruins, and the roll of chariots has long' since ceased to break its silence. The  Coliseum is fast crumbling into dust. Carracciola's limpid waters murmur no more.  Rome lies dead beside the Tiber's sullen, vener. able flood. Virgil shall live in song, Caesar on the  historian's page shall find a place, but Telemachus    60      CURRER. LYE. shall live forever in the human heart, and the glory of his high example. Can there be found throughout the length and breadth of our land, no manly voice, imbued with moral courage, to raise its strength against this foul blot upon the escutcheon of progression, by convincing his fellow-men-that he who, with every nerve braced by the excitement of imminent danger, borrows from circumstance the courage to stand at twelve paces from a deadly weapon level- ed at his head, is a greater coward than the man who controls the impulse strong within him to resent an insult; and bears with unflinch- ing brow the sneering taunts of the duello's advo- cate. Oh! would but every mother, wife and sister, blend their influence to abolish this cursed prac- tice, Chivalry would soon supersede the mockery now termed the code of honor-whose true and rightful title is voluntary murder. With song and shout the riotous party entered the outskirts of the city, and taking their route along the most unfrequented streets, soon reached Peirce Lyle's home, where after bearing their dread burden in, while the wail of the surrounding do- mestics still sounded in their ears, .they departed to end the night in revel and debauch. Kate Lyle, prostrated in the wild delirium of   CURRER LYE.         61 brain fever, was unconscious of her husband's  death. In the house all was confusion; for, so paralyzed  was every one by this sudden affliction, that none knew what to do for the best. The most quiet and self-possessed was Currer. She had been watching for her father's return, and when he came  not at his usual hour, she felt that something was   ; wrong with him. Quietly she had asked several  times of her nurse: "Do you think papa is ill?" and when the faithful Madge, unable to endure the  gaze of her anxious eyes, and the sorrowing ex- pression of her little face, took off her glasses to wipe the mist from their clear surface, and turned away to conceal her tear-dimmed eyes, the child felt she would not see him more, and from that moment no persuasion or entreaty could induce  her to go to rest.  Taking her seat close to the hall-door-sitting there very still, with her ear laid close to the pan- eling, she listened to every sound. When the carriage rolled up (and stopped, she flew to Madge and whispered, "Papa is come I! and when returning to her post they bore him past, she uttered one loud shriek, and then relapsed into silence. No word escaped her lips. Slowly she followed ?;a -'   -62      CURRER   LYE. them into the library, and took her seat beside him. It was wonderful how she bore it, for it was the first time he had ever come without taking her in his arms, and she knew it could never be so again. Strangers came to perform the last offices for the dead, and seeing the mute little creature there, with large wistful eyes lookings6 sadly, they tried to raise her and carry her away, but quietly put- ting their hands aside, she rose of her own accord, understanding she could not stay there--then drew herself to her fullest height, making but a child- woman then, and walked to the door. It was fas- tened, and she could not reach the bolt. "Please unfasten it, she said; and turning to gaze upon her, the man started back as the light fell upon that face, so fixed in the rigidity of despair, and never in his whole life did he forget it. A half a century on that child's head 'could .not have commanded half the respect he felt for that- tiny sufferer, whose sorrow was so holy. He opened the door, and looking the thanks she could not speak, she glided out and sat down cl6se to it on the other side. When they came out she returned toher post, and by the bright moonbeams that came and laid their trembling forms upon the floor, lighting up his face too, she stood and looked at him.   CURRER LYE.         638  She knew then that he had been very much to her-indeed, almost a world of joy. Morning dawned and found the infant watcher still sleepless-still keeping- her vigil beside that lifeless form-looking while she migaht look--think- ing while she might think--as she would think for many a year. For many an evening while the twilight would be in the room--and coming there so softly would find her kneeling with her face upon his chair just in the same place he had sat with her upon his knee-at the same hour-many an evening, buit now the twilight would find her there alone / It is a little word, but very sad, because we can ponder on it until it grows and grows-until we clasp our hands over our eyes to shut out the space that widens till we grow afraid to look. Alone! It is a broad word, that opens yawning chasms, and we strain our eyes to look into them whether we would or not, and we grow dizzy looking there, yet we cannot take our. eyes away. Alone! It sometimes comes like the sensation of falling that we often half in sleep-or the gradual sinking down, down, without the power to move or speak, feeling all the time that we are lying in our beds, but still going for miles and miles into the dark depths of space. And Currer Lyle was alone ! "     CTURRER LYE. - 1     OCHAPTER    IX. THE shadow cast upon the baby brow of Curret Lyle never lifted its darkness from the tablet of her mind. It lay there giving no token of the sor- row in the young heart, save that which looked out from the wistful eyes, and the listening for many days to every sound that at the usual hour might break upon her ear. And then suddenly recollecting that he could not come, the disappoint- ed look would fade as quickly as it had come. The funeral-what a mournful sound there is in those two words. They had robed the fragile form of Currer Lyle in mourning, but there was little need, for the deepest was in the heart, and recked not the out- ward signs and shows of grief. She felt that her very soul had parted from her and left the empty tenement yet imbued with life. She could not shed a tear, yet her heart felt like a dull weight of cold marble in her breast. There was a vague and indistinct recollection   CURRER  LYE.      65 that something drear and terrible had happened,    i but its import she scarce could realize.  She wandered about unnoted, ever and anon stealing into the chamber of death to gaze awe- stricken upon the features of him who never had looked on her, save with a smile of tenderness be- fore, and yet no moisture dimmed her eye. Cold were the murmurs of mocking sympathy that came from careless lips, as all unheeding the presence of the child whose ear drank in every  word they uttered, they discussed the circumstan- ces of his death, and thus only was Currer ever told how he died, for even in after years when the bitter experiences of life had strengthened her to endure, even then the slightest allusion was so painful that those who best knew the circumstan- ces forbore to wound the sensitive heart by recur- ring to it. Can there be any agony so unutterable-any desolation so fearful as the return home after a funeral? To Currer it had seemed that while yet he lay  .  i  there, even though that awful seal was set upon his brow, he was-not wholly lost to her, but now as she gazed around, on every side was something to recall the happy hours forever fled. Here were the books together they had read, and the flowers she had gathered for him were still there upon his   "     CURRER LYE. table; but, alas! frail emblems of mortality, they were fast withering to decay. The jessamine that he had trained around the window, stirred by the light breeze, flung its white blossoms at her feet, and poor old Argus, the dog that he had loved so well, with the instinct of his sagacious kind, came and crouched low at her feet, and with mute eloquence seemed to bespeak the father's love and kindness to the child. She fell upon his neck and wept. A few short days and the whole world far her had lost its charms. The innocent delights of childhood were no more, and the shade of woman- hood darkening an infant spirit might never again be lifted. At the funeral she had not wept, for a fearful immobility had grasped as with a hand of iron, every fibre of her being, and the sweet fountain of tears was sealed. Yet she was not insensible to the remarks of those, who, attracted by idle curi- osity, had intruded unnoticed in the confusion, upon thy privacy of that afflicted household. A coarse but good-humored woman, one of 'those gossiping, busy, loud-talking retailers of scandal and petty venders of small-talk---a sort of walking newspaper-one of a class not indigenous to any particular soil, but like rank weeds, springing up spontaneously in every neighborhood, had observed   CURRER LYE.        67 the child moving hither and thither in its quiet  unobtrusive way, and as she once passed very close  to her, drew her to her knee and raising her up, pressed her close to her capacious bosom.  Indignantly Currer glanced at her, as she ejacu- lated "poor little thing," and looking the scorn she felt, glided down from the patronizing perch, and with all her mother's dignity and stately step left the room, but not so quietly as to miss the query, "Did anybody ever see such an ugly, unfeeling little wretch as that?"  The funeral over, nothing could be decided upon until the recovery, of, Kate should sanction a con- versation as to her future views and desires re- specting the children. Peirce had neglected nothing, and everything in regard to the disposition of his business had been provided for, while the whole of his property, amounting to near forty thousand dollars, had been left in the hands of his partner for the unreserved  use of his wife and children. John Bradley was a morose, and many imagined, a hard-hearted man, but Peirce Lyle knew him to be honest, and devoted to his family, for he had once loved Kate and offered her his hand. Though rejected, his devotion was the same, and still through many a day that hard-featured, and many said, money-loving man, had gone on looking at her       1.n   68       CURRER LYE. from a great, a very great distance, watching her with all the old feeling of those-days when he had hoped, and though he did not come to the house and sit with them, he walked past many a night and stood opposite to her windows, and watched her shadow on the transparency till the light was extinguished, and then he would murmur, "gone to bed now," and taking his lonely wayr to his lonely room, still having her in his mind, as she had been years before,  He loved her children too, and plodding on in his own methodical way, laying by many a dollar for Kate's boy, as he was wont to say to himself in a sort of whisper, and then look fearfully around to see if any one was listening, and almost ashamed that the walls knew his weakness in thinking of her, and yet feeling what a revenge it 'would be to have her know when he was dead, that he had lived all this time for this triumph, to show her how he had remembered her. , ;   fi   CURRER   LYE.      69  CHAPTER X. MRS. PUGSBY kept a lodging house, that is to say, down in a narrow, dusky, dingy street, Mrs. Pugs- by lived in a small two-story dwelling with three trees in front, that had once been green, brushing the cobwebs from the second story window when- ever a breath of air chanced to find its way amongst the leaves. The house had once received a coat of paint, and on that memorable occasion, just two-and-thirty years previous to the date of my history, John Pugsby had installed as mistress of this domain, Miss Mehitabel Spinner, only daughter of Joshua Spinner, painter and glazier, having first with the solemn seal of ring and license, made her bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh, bestowing upon her the romantic, poetic, and elegant cognomen of Pugsby. In the course of human events John Pugsby gave up the ghost, leaving Mrs. Pugsby a fine, jolly, fat, comfortable, buxom widow, just step- ping over the shady side of forty, without the solace of a single juvenile Pugsby, and no creature   -- 70      CURRER  LYE. comforts save a snug home, a predilection for gin and water, of which she partook freely, without the deception of callingit "Aromatic Schnaps; and a half-length portrait of the same John Pugsby, which in summer concealed a stove-hole over the mantel-piece in the little back parlor, for, as Mrs. Pugsby very elegantly expressed it, "John was'nt no manner o' use when he was livin, and she could'nt see why his picter should be no account neither." Now, in the second story of this house, John Bradley kept bachelor's hall. Mrs. Pugsby, being a comfortable woman, was wont to say she was'nt particular as to a speck, and so the stairs that led up to this sanctum sanctorum, was seldom profaned by the contact of a broom, and the relics that had congregated there were more sacred to John Brad- ley than all the antiques of ancient Rome. There were webs in which dwelt spiders whom he had watched send forth generation after genera- tion of 0youg spiders, fat, well-to-do looking in- sects, and he himself had caught many a fly and dropped it into the tangling tissue. There was one step, that next to-but no matter who,-John Bradley loved dearest of anything on earth; it was a loose step that creaked a welcome to him, or so he fancied, as it yielded to the pressure of his footstep, and if he. passed it in abstraction, and did not hear it, he was sure to go back and 4,.    CURRER LYE.       71       tread on it again, to make sure' it had not forgotten him.         ' A very curious lock was on John Bradley's door,   A for Mrs. Pugsby was a very curious woman, and when the key was turned in that very curious lock, a very curious conglomeration met your eye, as it surveyed John Bradley's very curious room.  There was nothing fresh looking, and the con-  tamirration of a duster that room had not known    :! for many a day. There was a table where Virgil and Tasso jostled a half-worn copy of Byron, that perhaps covered a half-drained pewter mug of ale, and there was bread and Stilton cheese on the mantelpiece close to a meerschaum pipe, and a pair of old shoes half covered with mildew. The window disdaeind to court a ray of light, but wrapt in its mantle of dust, rejoiced in "keep- ing things in the dark." A full length statue of Niobe standing in one corner-oh! shade of classic lore, must it be con- fessed-was transformed into a clothes-peg, and on it hung John Bradley's wardrobe-old coats and vests, great coats and night-shirts, with other arti- cles of wearing apparel too numerous to mention. No wonder, there were tears on the marble face of poor Niobe. In all that dusty, dingy dis- covered room, there was but one thing that bore   72     GCURRER LYE. traces of being cared for. It stood away in one corner covered with green baize, and there was a poetry about it there -in that place, but there was still more poetry in John Bradley's heart, linking it with his very being, for never did he close his eyes at night without first carefully raising the cloth and kissing the fair features of Kate Lyle, that smiled on him from the hidden canvass, and then half ashamed even to look at the mute objects in the room, lest they should seem to smile at him for his weakness, he would blow out the light and covering his head with the sheets, blush to think what he had been guilty of. Was there not poetry in that, to see that a quaint looking man with the hard face and iron grey locks, the first freshness of whose life lay sore in the blight of a first affection, still in ifhfeart of hearts che- rishing, all unknown to her,tihe pure love whose quiet light had shone like a beacon on his boyish path for many a long year; that had stolen on to manhood, ripening 'neath the sun of a later age into fruition. John Bradley had been the confidant of Peirce in a1l things, and ere hiss death, had promised to watch over Currer, should aught occur to render a protector requisite, outside the shadow of her home. Peirce had lain no injunction on his young wife,   CURRER LYE.        73 inhibiting her from casting aside the shade of wi- dowhood to walk once more in the paths of wedded life, brightened perchance by the sunlight of a more congenial spirit than his had been, and when John Bradley, in looking over his papers found a letter addressed to him, he felt the hot blood mount to his brow and then recede in wild passion waves round his heart as he read those lines, traced by his friend while the foreshadowing of Eternity lay upon his spirit. 'My friend, ere I sleep another night, I may rest in the bosom of death and the mouldering gloom of the damp halls of the remorseless tomb may close around him who now traces to you these lines.  "While yet I may, ere the heavy clods are piled above this wasting breat, I have that to say to you, that I cannot die and leave unsaid. My wife, John Bradley, you love her, devotedly love her. "I have known this long, but respected too much the delicacy with which you strove to conceal it, to rend open the secret sanctuary where you en- shrined that passion, that pure and holy,-that un- dying lamp of adoration. "I will make of her no request, but if when she shall grieve no more for one who thus gives up his being to vindicate her honor, you can then wins a 4 'n - *    *         t.-%   74      CURRER LYE. reciprocation, I can only say, that did I know such might be hereafter the case, I should die happy. "In any event, guardmy children as though they were your own. Farewell! and may heaven pros- per you, is the sincere hope of PEIRCE LYE." Did John Bradley ever breathe to Kate that such a letter lay nestlin'g next his heart? that nightly he re-perused it, and nursed the hope close to his bosom that sometime all might be as he had never ceased to pray that it miight be, no matter how far distant it should be; would she have prized him the more, that strange, retiring, plain- looking, and many said awkward-looking man, had she known those lines were,;fostering those wild dreams there, where no one imagine4 a thought of woman's love had ever dwelt? Was John Bradley an awkward man? In the parlor, amid the gay butterflies who beat their gaudy wings against the tinselled lattice of society -YES! There he was an uncouth man. One who didnQot know what to do with his feet, for they had never threaded the mazes of the dance, and Scottische and Polka were myths to him. He did not know what to do wich his handsY for they had never pressed the soft white palms of a   CURRER LYE.        75  lady in their clumsy grasp, complimenting her ta- per fingers and rosy nails. He did not know what to do with his tongue, for it had never framed the flattering lies and pretty nothings that women love to hear. And the last new fashions for hat, waistcoat or surtout might as well have been hidden in the in- ventive brain of the Parisian tailor, from whom these arbitrary laws emanated once a month, for all he knew of their ever having seen the light. Yet, if a poor child of poverty made known to him her wants, dh then he knew well what to do with his feet, and in the dark too; for when night came, they would group their way through the dim region where squalid misery hovered ever in the murky air; and then he knew, too, what to do with his hands, for, putting them in his pockets, when he drew them forth the wolf fled away from the door, and the angel of mercy placed an act of Christian charity to John Bradley's account on the register of heaven, luminous with good deeds. If a poor widow needed the divine words of con- solation, John Bradley knew what to do with his tongue, and right eloquently could he use it too. Did Kate Lyle ever know all this? Yes, well she knew it! Did she ever wed him? I will answer this question by asking another.   76      CUItRER LYE. Do such attributes of man's character weigh more than a feather in the scale against polished ease, fine dress, a small foot, and empty head.? That is, with some women? , ',   CURRER LYE.         " CHAPTER XI. Now I have previously alluded to one prominent phase in Mrs. Pugsby's character, that she was curious: but as she was a woman, this will not be deemed a very requisite information by my male readers, should any honor me by a perusal of my pages. While on the other hand, the ladies will elevate the tips of their pretty little noses the slightest bit, just enough to signify their contempt of such. an insinuation, and very expressive of their opinion that it is not a weakness confined to their sex alone. For myself, what I think I shall keep to myself, and then I shall not make enemies on either side. Having decided to repeat once more that Mrs. Pugsby was a curious woman, I will proceed with my narrative, nor will it be a matter of surprise that she should have desired, not only like many another in this world, to look into her neighbor's affairs, but also to-acquaint herself somewhat with her own future destiny; and to that end and pur- 7*   78      CURRER LYE. pose, Mrs. Pugsby determined to seek out'one of those oracles, who, for the Consideration of half a  dollar crossing the palm of her right hand, would "cut the cards," and look a long ways beyond the other side of nowhere, telling of many strange and marvellous things to occur some time before an unlimited period. All of which events might pos- sibly take place in the course of a natural lifetime without the aid of prophecy. Now Mrs. Pugsby never decided upon any im- portant step without holding counsel with her  maid of all work, whose paternal patronymic was  Gubbins, Sarah Gubbins; but with the former and ' christian name, Mrs. P. seldom dignified her, as Gubbins, she ever said, " seemed most nater'l." I have seen many a housemaid cleaner than Gubbins, but seldom, if' ever, a dirtier one. She seemed to revel in a region of dirt, with no particular reason for it, indeed not noticing it.  Gubbins took snuff, disdained the use'of pocket I handkerchiefs, therefore seemed to have an imped- I iment in her speech: as for example, she-would say  "do" for no, land had a-fondness for interpolations, such as " says she, Gubbins says she," and "says I  to her says I."  When Mrs. Pugsby  had held a conversation  with Gubbins in reference to the afore-mentioned matter, she revealed to her a silent sorrow which   CURRER   LYE.       79  'had preyed upon her spirits, causing her to prey  upon other spirits for some time, and this con-  cealed grief,' that was wearing not her constitution,  but her patience, was an unrequited affection.  "Oh! by poor bissis," said Gubbins, " who is the bad?' But as I intend to try the patience or curiosity of the sex a little, I shall not at present make Mrs. Pugsby reply audibly.              - ; Who has not been to a fortune-teller'? and who will not recognize the character I shall draw, as  one taken from the walks of life, aliving, breath- ing, flesh and blood reality? Every small town . North, East, Southl and West, has its fortune-tel-  ler. In the very small places they are generally found in the narrow lanes, living in little wooden tenements, cottage built, with a little garden in     I front, and guarded from unwelcome intrusion by huge'mastiffs. Every village contains at least one idle, gad- about woman, who in the plenitude of slovenly slip-shod ignorance, neglects her home, husband and children, leaves her breakfast table in the middle of the floor, picks up in her dirty arms her still more uncleanly baby, and steps over to  Mrs. Muggins only just- for a minute, and fromr Mrs. Muggins to some other gossip, until having made her rounds and filled her news-budget, she  brings up at the. fortune-teller's to empty it at the   cVu     CURRER LYE. feet of that worthy, who makes capital out of the commodity thus obtained. Meanwhile, her child. ren, who are left to shift for themselves, are amus ing themselves by breaking and destroying valua-, ble young trees, robbing hen-roosts and orchards, throwing stones at:battle, breaking windows andl stealing choice flowers, the neighbors' pests, and  fast becoming adepts in the elegant accomplishments that lead to the highest niche in the hangman's noose, and the strongest cell and the blackest record  on the State Prison's register. Her husband plods through the heat and burn-. ing sun at noonday, to pick up a mouthful from amid the unwashed dishes and broken fragments of the morning meal, returning, unrefreshed, to his  day of heavy toil. ' ' Such are the convenient go-betweens of the vil- lage fortune-teller, who, using them as tools, toler. ates them only for the service they do her in col-  lecting ne ws by which she gains at once an insight into people's affairs, and a reputation for " telling rue." In the large cities are to be found in almost any thoroughfare, living in elegant apartments, and the  daily papers regularly announce that Mrs, A. or  B. will give information of the past, tresent or fi- ! ture events, from 8 A. M. to 3 P. M  In these cases  the fortune-telling is a mere mask for the racticej , ?5    COURRER  LYE.       81  of almost anything vile and-disgusting, from the concealment of stolen goods to the entrapping of     U an unwary girl into the toils of a libertine. In New York city there are two distinct classes -   of these people. The one just mentioned, and  another who are not only ostensibly, but really  fortune-tellers, having their ipai emissaries, scatter-,  ed here, there, and everywhere, in all grades of society, gleaning their information and making  their reports with jesuitical secresy. Not a thousand miles from Goerck-street, not more than half that distance from Grand-street,     a there stands a row of small two-story brick dwel,  lings.                         i The very air in the neighborhood whispers- "muffle your face in your veil," and calls the blush   : to your cheek at finding' yourself in its atmos-  phere. -  Opposite there are no dwellings: stables and hay-lofts unoccupied at night, fill the space.      i The very houses themselves look as though they .   - suspected each other, and there is a pervading air of mystery in the closed venitians that seem to say, ' We could tell tales."      -            :  However, with them or their character, I have  nothing to do or say, for or against, save and ex- : cept the middle one, which, like the others, is      , closely shut, and-looks as though mischief peeped    82     ' CURRER  LYE. out of every cranny and crack, and as you pull the bell, for there, are bells on .these doors, as make you blush. Supposing myself to have;the "open sesame," to this house, I will take you in with me. "Oh!" you will say,. "she has-been here other-than in her  mind's eye " well, perhaps I have, but thank for- tune, you cannot catechise me. There is a parlor on the ground floor, and we will enter it, for it is the reception-room, and the trim, tidy colored girl will usher us into it. There is nothing particular in the furnishing of this room. A rag carpet, scrupulously clean, brass andirons, ?-marvellously bright, but still looking suspicious, and various little mantel ornaments of Plaster Paris, very cheap, butstill, there in that place, in. vested with a sort of awe, a wondering how they came there; still not more unnatural than as tho' they had garnished a nmntel-piece elsewhere. Only when we invest a place with mystery, the *  most simple surroundings have an interest and im- portance that 'we cannot account for. There is a black cat, too, nestling on the hearth- rug, and we make a sickly'sort of jest upon it, and try to laugh at our own very facetious allusion, but it is quite as sickly. a laugh as the jest, and at length we yield; our faces becoming as long and   CURRER LYE.         83 as solemn as the others in the room. "The others?" I hear you say. Yes, dear readers, the others, for there in that little- :room  is a crowd of ladies; among them  representatives of the wealth and fashion of New York, who have left their carriages standing at the door of some emporium of fashion, and stole off up these narrow streets, to this place, and why? Look in the book that hangs suspended by a red cord at the entrance to' the parlor. There you will find these names registered two weeks previous for the privilege of one hour's in- terview with the sybil on this day, and these peo- ple are patiently awaiting their turn to consult with her.      .            ' You will see by the remnants of luncheons- scattered around, that many have been here since morning. You see that palefaced lady in the corner? She has just sent a messenger to beg an inter- view with the sybil, if only for a moment. Now she has received the answer, "No." How sadly she turns away. Just eighteen months ago. her husband sailed master of a brig to China. No tidings have reached her all those long, weary days, and now she confidently believes that here she can ascertain whether he yet lives. She has gone away unsatisfied, but not till in her anxiety she has, with the hope of moving her heart   84      CURREEt- LYE. to compassion, revealed the object of her visit, and now having left her name in the great book, where ; sa pany destinies hang as iWere, suspended by a thread, she. leaves, almost forgetting that she -has betrayed her errand to the confidante. Will she forget to tell her mistress? Oh. no, down it goes in a memorandum, and she will not forget to turn it to account. Our names are not down either, but though we cannot consult with, we can explore the mysteries of the sybil's sanctum, and describe her too. We ascend the narrow stairway, and knock at the first door on the right, first carefully providing ourselves with some little souvenir, which when 'the query comes, "Who's there?" gives license to reply, "A lady, with a little present to Mrs. S." "Do you want to sit with her?" "Not to-day.!' Whereupon the door opens as by magic, and you stand in a small room like the one below, rag-car- ped, but with an atmosphere redolent of snuff and brandy, mingled with the odors of different herbs, and the, walls hung with Indian curiosities, wampum, belts, moccasins; pipes, tobacco leaves, dried snakes, etc.; while the proprietress, in semi- Indian costume, with a parti-colored turban fantas- tically wreathing her head, her long shining black   CURRER LY LE.       85 hair falling straight down over her pale face, and her eyes gleaming like lambent fires, invest you with a sort of thrilling wonderment, that in a popu- 'lous city such things could& be; yet we know there are worlds within worlds, and here was a littler world shut up and moving on its own axis of mys- tery. One of these inexplicable net-works, branching out in light, imperceptible threads of gossamer, weaving in with its loom and shuttle of secresy, facts that have much of good and more of evil to very many who could not account for the singular truth of the revelations made in that little room, by that curious-looking being, who called herself "Mary," seventh daughter of a seventh daughter, whose father was a seventh son of a seventh son, of the Chief of the Pottawattamies. And to this strange being came Mrs. Pugsby; but there were frequenters to this little queer dwelling, who brought great minds and reasoning powers to bear upon this gift of foretelling events, and speaking so confidently of the past, they went away from- this woman convinced. Shall I tell you how? From long experience she has become a physi- ognomist; not from any scientific deductions, nor from any fixed principle, but from the truer and more reliable suggestion of a quick, instructive per-   86       CURRER   LYE. ception. Hence at almost a glance, your peculiar temperament and phrenological analysis are re- dtced in her mind to their first elements, and you are a child, a plaything in her hands. She sits to read your destiny, but first you must be convinced of her skill; and to that purpose she adroitly- draws you into conversation; and having the most perfect realization of your calibre intellectually, she pitches her own style to its height, and without perceiving it, you are gradually fascinated and drawn towards her, until a converse commenced, perhaps in a description of her own wild native forests, and her flying visits paid every summer to -ithe uncultivated tribes of the red men, her brothers never forgotten-still living in her memory, though the innovations 'of civilization have driven them year by year to raise their wigwams, and journey to the far West mid the boundless prairies-sweep- ing away their hunting grounds and the bones of their fathers-all heedless of the eye of the Great Spirit who yet shall avenge the red men's wrongs- terminates in almost a complete revelation of your purpose in invoking her aid, and a history of your past life. Her charge is five dollars, but if you study hu- man nature you have got your money's worth,  though satisfied of the humbug practised upon you. Perhaps I am a philosopher in some things, for vc   CURRER LYE.        87 a new phase in my favorite study, human nature, affords me the same degree of gratification as that experienced by the successful evolver of any new scientific principle. The botanist, who discovers a curiosity in vege- table life, is like a school-boy just let loose from thraldom. A strange bird, with a gorgeous plu- mage, is to the skilful taxidermist, what a new play- thing is to a child. The poet goes into extacies over a new and pretty conceit of rythm, albeit it is his own. The surgeon is exalted in his own estimation by some novel operation in anatomy. The merchant rejoices in a good speculation; the broker in a fine operation in fancy stocks; the doctor in killing or curing, a patient; the under- taker in laying him out; and so on through the extent of the catalogue. We are but children of a larger-growth, each one with his Pegasus, his hobby-and mine is human nature. Mrs. Pugsby, having some two weeks previous written her name in that mysterious book afore- mentioned, in a somewhat illegible hand, very dif- ficult to decipher, had taken the seat with Mrs. S., to which that entry entitled her. Whereupon, deeming with this inquisitor all preliminary con- versation entirely superfluous, Mrs. S. shuffled her IL   88      CURRER LYE. cards, took an enormous pinch of snuff, looked ex- tremely forbidding, and commanded the awe-strick- en Pugsby to "cut," and Pugsby, feeling much in- clined to run about that time, involuntarily started from her seat. But being given to understand by the oracle that the order did not imply that she was to "cut her stick," but "cut the cards," she drew a long breath, looked fearfully behind her, resumed her seat, and obeyed the behest. She was then informed many things, all of which she knew before, but somehow there was a consola- tion in hearing them again in that queer way. And the first of these revelations was, that Pugsby was in love, that the man she loved was under the same roof with her, and that by looking in a globe of clear water then standing upon the table, covered with a black cloth, she could see him. -Pugsby did look, and turned very pale, for there was a perfect likeness of John Bradley; perfect as daguerreotyping. She was then informed that her wishes in regard to him, touching upon her matrimonial propensity, might be accomplished, but a dark-haired woman, lately a widow, and the mother of two fair-haired children, stood in the light of the lamp of love so luminously burning in the heart of Pugsby. The amazed Pugsby returned home to vent her smothered indignation to Gubbins, and upon fully   CURRER   LYE.       89 considering the matter, Gubbins here, at this stage of the difficulty, very suddenly remembered that a certain key had, in some unaccountable manner, found its way into her pocket; and diving into the depths of that receptacle, she drew it forth from the recesses where it lay almost submerged in snuff, and declared most positively that she " thought it would fit John Bradley's door," at the same time suggest- ing that they should go to his room and fully in- vestigate every nook and corner, to ascertain, if possible, the state of his heart, or secure some evi- dence of the existence of a dark-haired woman. Gubbins, in remembering the key, forgot to men- tion that she had, after her first conversation -with Pugsby, used it to effect an entree into the said room, had abstracted a daguerreotype likeness from it-had paid a visit to the fortune-teller-disclosed everything in relation to her mistress and her un- happy attachment, and returned home to quiet her qualms of conscience in gin-and-water, and tittilate her olfactories with a penn'orth of rappee. All this Gubbins forgot; and leaving them for the present at John Bradley's door, I will invoke your patience, till the next chapter shall reveal what they there discovered. \    .     90.     CURRER LYE. CHAPTER XII. VERY lonely was Kate Lyle in her young and sad widowhood-lonely but not remorseful. Hers was a nature not long to remain bowed by any great calamity, and with the perversion of many good traits of character, that had been bright or- naments in her youthful diadem, came the blight of an unjust spirit of condemnation. Already did she justify her conduct, the results of which had proved so disastrous, and upon the defenceless head of poor little Currer fell the bitter reproaches which made her the medium of her father's death. In all that home, there grandeur ministered to pride, there was but one creature who looked kind- ly on the child, for even the menials echoed the merciless injustice of their pampered mistress. Since the death of. Peirce, Kate Lyle had no longer a motive for reformation-the heart no longer sought to drive forth from its sanctuary the demon that had invaded it, and the proud dignity of mien that had once distinguished her, bowed to   CURRER   LYE.       91 a miserable petulance, that found a vent in the per- secution of a poor fragile babe. In her breast there lingered no vestige of a mother's feeling for that dependent, helples 'or- phan, but for her boy, in whose determined eye she read her own resolute spirit, and marked upon his broad forehead all his father's intellect, her love amounted to idolatry. Upon him she lavish- ed her caresses and her tenderness-indulged each childish whim, and woe be to the servant who dared question the propriety of aught he chose to do.  I have said but one creature's eyes gleamed with the love-light for Currer Lyle-it was the faithful Madge.  The honest-hearted woman saw   the change that was so steadily and surely working in that house, and knowing the disposition of Currer, felt that evil must result from it, how much she scarcely dared to think. Servants who, during her father's life, had striven to outvie each other in their attentions, now pushed her rudely by, and then, when they marked the flashing eye and curling lip, jeeringly called her the ".Tragedy Queen." All this she bore in silence, never even appeal- ing to Madge, who voluntarily strove to ward away from her these humiliations; and if, by any accident she saw a tear-drop glistening on the old   92      CUR 1-ER LYE. woman's eyelids, shetWbould gently kiss it away, bitall the while keeping so still, and unmoved by the lightest emotion herself, that -poor Madge f. would often say, "Och sure, it's me that would rather see her dead and going to her father, than so quiet-like here, where no one cares for her but me." Night after night had Madge feigned to- sleep, and watched the child, sitting up in bed, with the cold, pale moonbeams streaming over hei, lighting up aTface so full of sorrow--so filled with the calm- ness of despair, and scarce less white than the snowy sheets that overspread her couch, while the thin hands, meekly crossed upon her bosom, alone revealed- that she was breathing a prayer to her Father in Heaven, to take her. to him who had gone before; and after'watching till sleep sat upon her weary eyes-and they would close in spite of herself-poor Madge would waken again, still the little figure sat there in the moonlight, still the hands were folded on the bosom, and the large, lustrous eyes were still upturned; and when Madge would go to her and softly persuade her to lie down, she offered no resistance, but suffered her to arrange the pillows and place her comfortably in bed, but quite careless if she waked or slept. Day by day the hiddeni grief was wearing out the slight finame, and day by day Madge saw the ill-   CURBRER :LYE.    -    9" roads of disease upon the wasting form. The sunken eyes, with their unearthly lustre, the sh:ort, quick breath, and the hectic  flush that mantled upon the cheek, too surely indicated that a germ was there whose growth might soon, very soon, baffle all human skill to check. *Never since the day of the funeral had she even looked into the parlors, and yet a strange yearning - held possession of her to stand once more where he had last lain. Never, since that day, had-: she mentioned the name of father. Never had shealluded to him, except upon one occasion, when, as the family physician was passing out, he observed her fondly caressing the old dog, Argus, and marking at the same time her mournful look, essaying to make her more cheerful, "I have a very beautiful dog I will bring you for a pet," he said. "Thank you," she replied, "I would rather have Argus, he loved him." "And who is he .' She shook her head, and pointed her finger to Heaven, then slowly walked away. About twilight one evening, some three months after his death, with trembling steps she entered the parlor. For many days she had been so feeble as to be quite unable to leave the nursery, but still forbade Madge-to speak of it to her mother.   "      CURRER  LYE.' Shn this evening she-had reached the, staircase, and pleliig her strength unequal to attempt gig down without assistance, Madge took her in-her arms, and so emaciated was she, scarcely felt her weight. As she entered the room, she turned, and smil- ing sweetly, but sadly, said, "Thank you, Madge, but you must not let Mamma know that I was car- ried, it might fret her to think me ill, and indeed I am quite well, only, not very strong." Her only' answer was,a suppressed sob; but she knew her wish, however slight, was a law held ever sacred, so she said no more. There in the gleaming light of the waning day, she wandered through those splendid rooms, strain- ing her eyes to look upon his picture-standing where the coffin had stood--sitting in the chair where he used to sit, between the windows and the curtains, whose broidered folds, sweeping down and mingling with the carpet's gorgeous tints, con- cealed her from view. While she sat there recalling him as he had been, still remembering, not forgetting anything that had been his, or aught that he had ever said to her, peering into the darkness as though she would pierce the realms of space and 'mid its peopled vistas, single out his form. While sitting there, lost in her own sad fancies, A*.   CU BORER LYE.        95      X she was scarce conscious that others had entered - the- room, until she heard her mother's voice,'     : choked with sobs, as she endeavored to converse    :, with a friend and talk of Peirce.  That friend was John Bradley, and as he gave      the statement of her husband's affairs, and told how  1 all had been arranged before his death-when she  knew all-when the light broke upon her that       : even in his last moments his heart had known no     - rebellion to its early devotion, despite all that had passed, and every thought had been for her wel-     : fare in the final disposition of his affairs, Kate gave ? S way to all the wildness of despairing yet passionate   grief  Springing from her concealment, Currer flung herself upon her mother's bosom. Mamma," she cried, " dear Mamma," but at the sound of her voice Kate uttered a piercing scream and threw her from her. The slight frame thus readily dashed to the floor was raised by John Bradley. "My God'l"  he cried, you have killed her!" Her temple had struck against the corner of a marble table, and the crimson tide flowing down the pale, hollow cheeks, gave the face indeed the appearance of death. As he lifted her to a sofa, the blood gushed   96'     -CURRKE R LYE. i,  from her mouth and nostrils, and hastily calling :  ;t Madge, he flew, rather ran, for the physician. Kate, alarmed at the result of her frenzied yield- ing to her fierce temper, now stood like a statue, t old, ple and immobile, gazing upon the death- h kre countenance of the insensible. little sufferer, :)hleediag the wild lamentations of poor Madge, who, ever and anon, laying her ear close to the blue lips, listened, and hearing no breathing or ,f sign of life from her darling nursling, swayed to "and fro, talking the while, , Oh, it's too good, you were my sweet one, to stop among them; but those sweet lips must tell their story in Heaven, so they must: though they never complained against one on earth, sorra one. Oh! isn't it me that loved ye, with every vein in my heart!" Dr. Grant hastened to the side of the child, and in a tone of anger, suppressed by a desire to appear respectful, demanded how  this accident had oc. curred. John Bradley informed him, shading the' truth as much as he could, still keeping-within its con- fines, and as he sat with his fingers clasping the slender wrist, counting the sands of life as slowly they ebbed in the tide, now almost chilled, in the blue veins. Kate approached ,him, and  in a husky tone whispered, "Is she alive?" The harsh rebulke- Of " b   CURRER LYE.         97  trembled on his lips, but as he gazed upon her face  all pallid and distorted with horror, the distended  eyes and dilated nostril, it spoke so plainly of mad- ness near at^:hand, and brain o'erwrought, where reason but recently resumed her sway, it wai;s hushed, and he made answer mildly: "Mrs. Lyle, . go to your chamber; everything that can be done,  I will do; but- I must be candid and prepare you - for the worst; your child is dangerously injured; but now the room must be quiet." Bradley knew Dr. Grant's feelings, and looked  his thanks for the gentleness that had tempered  his speech to the stricken woman before them, and  as he led her from the room, her suffering penitence endeared her still more to him, whose every pulse throbbed for her in pure, holy affection. - Returning to Currer, who,had been carefully re- moved to her chamber, and such remedies used as       might prove beneficial, Dr. Grant informed him      i that from what he could gleam from the nurse, who, in the unguarded expression of her grief, had - revealed what torture could not have wrung fromI her under other circumstances, the child- had evi- dently been neglected since her father's death, and  it was probable incipient consumption had already  fastened upon her system; that in her fall she had ruptured a blood vessel. Tears dimmed the eyes of both as they listened     -   i 98     CURRER;'LYE. to Madge's recital of her patient endurance--of her love and devotion to her mother, and the idolatry almost of her father's memory. Day had broken ere the lightest gleam of returning life- cheered the anxious watchers round her couch. ' Kate had been apprised of the slight change, and flew at once to her bedside. Opening her dim eyes, a faint smile of angelic sweetness hovered on her wan cheek and lips, as she saw her mother there; and half- rising, she murmured, c "Kiss me, dear mother;" but the ex- ertion was too great for her, and she fell back upon her pillow again, almost lifeless. Dr. Grant now gave orders that there should be but one person'in the room--all must be quiet-- everything depended upon -keeping her free from excitement; and careful nursing next to that, was his greatest hope. The morning dawned upon her lying there with the lamp of life almost darkened in her -young eyes. The brow, bound up, but the crimson drops staining the bandage that encircled it; her hands folded there on the sunken little chest; and all things surrounding-the closely drawn curtains-- the small table, with its numerous vials-the still- ness unbroken save by the slow measured tic-tac of the pendulum that swung to and fro in its gilded prison-house upon the mantel--all spoke of human   CURitER LYE.        99 suffering, and Death's angel awaiting upon the      threshold till its cessation gave into his arms the seraph for whose entrance the' portals leading to    ,: the courts of Paradise stood already open. There are few evils that bring not some, good . things along with them-few trials that have not some joys with them. There are some griefs so beautiful in their silent agony, we would not be without them, because there is a loveliness in their chastening influence. Suffering at times raises up friends, and we rev joice that sorrow brought them to our side. If we wake to-morrow to -look out upon the world 'mid clouds and storms, we bless the sun- shine when Phoebus rolls his chariot along the sky, and the footsteps of his fiery coursers dash the rain clbuds back to their misty home, we a-re hap. pier for the change, and why? Because we had not expected it. But if the morrow, he rides up the eastern hills, drinks the dew from earth's green mantle, and robes the mountains in his golden glory, we prize him not, if he- sinks beneath the wave, if even in the same shining splendor. And so with joy and sorrow in the human heart. Ifl charity's sweet sunbeams dispel the lowering clouds of adversity, we bless the poverty that made herour guest, whose home is the sphere beyond;   100     C  R RE R R  L Y i, but if fortun' fickle goddess ever turned her wheel for us without a frown upon hbr brow, we should not knw how many or how few are the hearts that deserve our trust on earth. Currer Lyle lay there, all unheeding the light foo*-al the itiai untiring, unresting devotion wan- dered around her room, and the soft, tiny hand that bathed her own fevered palms, or moistened the parched lips, and yet there had scarce been companionship between them until now; but this illness had wakened for the poor, sorrowing, fragile, perhaps dying child, the fountains of a brother's love in that young bosom, and Charlie Lyle flitted around her like an angel watcher. During the early part of Currer's illness, an old friend of Kate Lyle's had arrived, to pay a visit of some duration, and finding all the household worn out with constant watching, at once installed her- self as nurse, sharing the post with Madge, whom nothing could induce to abandon her charge en- tirely to another. Miss Marian Sley was not young in years, but far .older inthe world's experience..:5    - She had been left an orphan at a very early age, and poor. An only brother was her only relative in all the world, and he had been many years in Italy, with a gentleman of rank and fortune, who had adopted him when a boy. * i             ,    Q iURRER LYE.       101 Marian, through the influence-of some charitable ladies, had been placed at the seminary where Mrs. Lyle was educated, for the purpose of preparing herself for the duties of a governante. , There she had become the friend of!E Kate, and  as an assistant teacher, the faX of the institution. Once before, shortly after Kate's marriage, she had paid her a visit; but the clear gaze of Peirce Lyle's penetrating eye made Miss Marian feel quite uncomfortable, and she therefore shortened her visit, with the mental resolution never to repeat it. No sooner did she learn of his death, than she flew on the wings of woman's friendship to con- dole with her sweet friend upon the loss of so dear, delightful and indulging a husband. Miss Marian Sley, to a physiognomist, would have been a study.    102     OUR RER LY EL CHAPTER      XIII. Ybu could not look at her eyes without receiv- iPg a disagreeable impression. Large, and of a singularly light blue, perfectly opaque, they defied the most rigid scrutiny to dis. cover a reflection in them of what might be passing in. her mind. Her hair was very beautiful, anid as it fell in wa- ving chesnut masses, over her rather intellectual brow, you could not help associating it with refine- ment. Hermouth was her most expressive feature delicately chiselled, but with a degree of firmness indicated in the lines that forbade contradiction when she said "I will." Her complexion was fair almost to transparency, and entirely unreddened by the slightest tint of color. She seldom laughed, save when very angry, and then her whole face would become curiously mottled with purple spots; and though you saw from the display of beautiful teeth that she was   CURRER LYE.        .103 laughing-to look at her eyes you would not have guessed it, they seemed to gleam with such malig- nity. This singular being- never replied angrily to the bitterest taunt'levelled against her-never allowed herself to speak otherwise than mildly and gently --but this low, peculiar laugh, calling up the spotted cheeks and the fierce flashes from the eyes, was like the warning of the rattlesnake ere he springs ; and well was this known, for it won from her school- mates the appellation of adder. Long ere she had left school, -the credulous dis- position of Kate Lyle had marked her out as the prey of Marian Sley, and great was her disappoint- ment to'find that her old friend had married a man whose perspicuity baffled the designs of even so astute a person as herself. Winter lay in the lap of Spring, and yet Currer seemed to hover between life and death, with' scarce a feather's weight to turn the scale in favor of the former. Charlie Lyle, now for the first time awakened to a sense of the loneliness of his little sister, emerged from the chrysalis of selfishness, and hovered around her couch of pain. His hand it was that held the cup of healing to her lips-his sweet voice that echoed from the page which soothed her into slumber-his bright eye'   104      CURRER LYE. that read in hers the slightest wish ere she could utter it, and his nimble feet that flew to accomplish it. With that strange perception which we often see in young children, Miss Marian Sley was their aversion, and to Currer she was the incarnation of wickedness. She could not look at her without a nervous excitability which rendered it requisite for Dr. Grant to give imperative orders that Miss Sley should hot be admitted to the sick room of the child whose life yet hung upon the slightest chance. Marian Sley was not long in discerning that Currer held no place in her mother's heart, nor long in turning this fact to account in the little drama she was destined to play in this family. And now, leaving' her to plot and counter-plot, turn we to Mrs. Pugsby and her most worthy con- fidante, Gubbins, who had invoked the aid of a third party in the affair which so much distressed the said Pugsby, Miss Midge lived in the neighborhood; kept a small 'shop, where she retailed small-beer, soap, sugar and scandal. Miss Midge flattered herself that she knew what was going on-that the pretty widow that lived across the way, whose husband had only been dead three weeks, might say that Mr. So-and-so, &c., that called so often, was her soli- citor, but some folks was'nt so green; and it was   CURRER  LYE.      105 well enough for Mrs. Simpkins to send her oldest daughter to the country, for a good many suspected she did'nt go too soon. And so. on through the round of the small circle that surrounded the immediate vicinity of Miss M's shop, wagged her scurrilous tongue. She was a little wiry woman, indeed very small; so peculiar in this respect, that you would dread to see her venture out on a windy day, lest she should be blown so high, that her own notions of propriety might be shocked. It was her wont to boast that no man had ever tried to take advan- tage of her, and a waggish youth in the same street usually replied, "It would be a daring man that would." When this interesting trio had assembled in John Bradley's room, the picture of Kate Lyle was dragged forth from its consecrated corner, and stood in imminent danger of being mercilessly clapper-clawed by the incensed Pugsby; who longed to whet her nails upon it, preparatory to an attack upon the original. "I never thought," quoth Midge, "that he was any better than he ought to be; for I have seen him coming out of the meanest little out-of-the-way places, lookin' awful sneakin'." For my part, she must be a brazen piece, to 5*   106     CURRER LYE. stand. pictured here in a lone man's room night after night." Thus spake Gubbins the oracle. And Mrs. Pugsby " believed in her soul, that many a night that very woman had come home with John Bradley, for she had often suspi- cioned that she had heard a double tramp up them stairs," And thereupon, Midge proceeded to inspect the room more closely, to discover if possible a stray hair-pin, garter, boot-lace, or perhaps a tag off a stay lace. But, alas for the propensity of the indefatigable Midge, no such relic was to be found. Midge said she supposed she must have gone out early in the morning, almost before light, to make sure of not being seen. And in the midst of their thousand and one conjectures, John Bradley stood upon the threshold of his hitherto sacred room.   CURRER LYE.        107  ;1 CHAPTER      XIV.  JOHN BRADLEY was little versed in woman-craft  -always shunning them if possible-going on looking at Kate Lyle from a very great distance--  thinking of her not as a mortal, but the ideal of a  dream that had brightened many a lonely hour, casting a fragrance round musty ledgers, and her   :- sweet face peeped out amid the long columns of figures that garnished the pages of debit and credit, like a rainbow on the cloud. .  - Six long years had he lived in the regions of    ;! fancy there under the domicil of Pugsby, and what  .X sort of a person she was, he had not the remotest   ! idea.                    -      Gubbins brought his breakfast on a small tray  every morning; if it suited him he ate it in silence, and if it did not he left it untasted, and sought his i frugal morning repast at the nearest restaurant.   j Of little note was it to him that, the black snub- nosed tea-pot had been replaced by a little curle-   d qued silver one--.-or that his cup of Liverpool ware    108      CURRER LYE. had yielded place to one of "rade c7zany," as Gub- bins elegantly expressed it. Nor could he have testified upon oath, whether Pugsby's eyes were blue, green, or grizzly grey--if or not she wore a wig, had teeth, or was minus her natural masticators.  All he knew, was, that he had a vague recollec- tion of having, at certain stated periods, paid cer- tain sums of money, into the hands of a creature of elephantine dimensions, and that said sums had been almost instantaneously transferred to a re- ceptacle somewhere in the capacious folds of her -garment. If he visited a poor family, and a woman at- tempted to express her gratitude for his timely as- sistance, he would blush, look as though he had committed a flagrant crime, and stumble out of the house muttering an anathema against pall grateful i   women. And so John Bradley was not skilled in woman-craft. What then was his consternation, upon repairing to his sanctum, there to enjoy his " otium cum dig- nitate" in the wreathing smiles of a "Habanero," to find it invaded by the interesting trio embracing Midge, Gubbins and Pugsby; who, all speaking at once, assailed his fastidious ears with such a volley of Billingsgate, and poured upon his unoffending head the vials of their concentrated wrath w;th   CURRER   LYE.      109 such immense preponderation as almost to annihi- late him. "Aint you a pretty one, to hire a room of a re- spectable, poor, lone woman, all unprotected, aint you?" quoth Midge. "You ought to be taken up for a bigamy, so you did!" screamed .Gubbins. ' Oh, you miserable, pettifoggin', canoodlin', de- ceivin', good-for-nothin' creetur!" shrieked forth Pugsby, as with extended arms she advanced, to fling herself upon his bosom. But John Bradley, in his consternation, stepped one side, and the aggravated Pugsby measured her dimensions on the floor, while the domicile tottered as though rocking in an. earthquake; and the in- censed Gubbinis, aided by the little spit-fire Midge, charged to the rescue. Our hero, dodging the pudgy fists of the former, and the claws of the latter, gave one bound from the top to the bottom of the stairs and made good his retreat; nor did he slacken his pace until he found himself safe under the sheltering roof of the Astor House, calming his perturbed spirits over a bottle of Rudesheimer.  What to make of the pugnacious demonstration at home, he could not tell, nor did he determine to investigate it. Whatever the cause, he knew the effect would be   "O     CULRRER LYE. to drive him at once to seek a refuge in some more quiet house than this now seemed to be, and the conclusion he arrived at as the most plausible, was, that a rabid dog had bitten the whole party, and the poison had struck in, causing hydrophobia to break out. As soon as night fell, after first walking cautiously past and hearing no unusual sound issuing thence, John stole into the house with bated breath and trembling-in every limb, with the perspiration oozing from every pore; but there was little need of agitation; the belligerents were perfectly qui- escent, Pugsby having quelled her accumulated anguish by copious libations of gin-and-water, espe- cially the gin. Midge and Gubbins rested ingloriously on their arms in the kitchen below, and silence reigned su- preme within the walls, Locking his door, our hero sat down to ruminate upon -the consequences of removing his abiding plge, and to drop an unmanly tear at the very thought-for he was wedded to that old room by a myriad of associations. ;  , Happy hours of reflection, that banished care 6 ,:m the bright palace of imagination; and habit had so accustomed him to every surrounding object that he might indeed be pardoned the display of a slight degree of weakness. All night he sat   CURRER LYE.       1l there gazing at the disfigured portrait of Kate, ever and anon cursing the female fiend that thus had worked the (to him) mighty ruin. A beautiful link in his existence was broken. A chord that had stirred to music in his heart refused to echo there, and the blight of change had al- ready cast a shadow round the bright spirit of poesy that had dwelt in his bosom. When the morrow dawned, he stealthily descend- edthe stairs; but the lynx-eyed Pugsby, having re- covered from the effects of her last night's pota- tions, espied him about to leave the house without breakfast, and with dejected air accosted him:- "Would Mr. Bradley be so good as to walk into her parlor?" Somewhat fearfully he complied; but when the unfortunate woman opened the flood-gates of her sorrow, he regretted the step that brought him there as vis-a-vis to the late lamented John Pugsby; and when Mrs. P. declared her passion for himself,. he sat overwhelmed with the honor and magnitude of the favor, picking at his hat-band, biting his  glove-fingers, and edging towards the door, as he listened to her tale of unrequited affection; he ven- tured no reply until he made sure there was no obstacle in the way of beating a hasty retreat, and then laconically saying, "Madam, I amn not a mar- rying man " he plunged head foremost out of the   "2     O R RER L YE. hall door, without heeding the hysterical cries o: the blighted Pugsby. Leaving her safe, however, in the hands of he] worthy coadjutor, Gubbins, we will look into the Lyle mansion and peep over the shoulder of Miss Marian Sley, as she sits inditing to her brother a letter. "Very impertinent!" say you. "Very true," say I; but as the contents of said letter may have an important bearing upon the future desti- nies of the Lyle family, I must stand excused; and consoling myself with the old and convenient aphorism that the " end justifies the means," IEpro- ceed to copy her letter as I read it. - "Ma cher Ethelbert; For my seeming neglect in not having before written to you, I do most humbly crave your pardon; but the fact is, I could till now write you nothing bearing well upon my future fortunes, and chose rather to leave you in the dark until I could, than to enlighten you at Athe risk of administering to your disquiet. 'You spoke in your last letter of a rumor that I was to be married. Nonsense! I say. I'am still ' single, and may Heaven so prosper me for many a long day. I am thirty-eight. "' Oh, horrifying reflection!' I hear you say, but to me 'tis not so. "How strange it seems, we have never me since early childhood, and yet have corresponded all   CURRER  LYE.       113 these many years so regularly. How you must wonder how I look! I'll describe myself as I ap- pear to myself, and you must make all necessary allowance for the vanity of the sex. "I am a trifle above the average height, some- what inclined to embonpoint. Very fair, light blue eyes, and hair a decided chesnut color. Rather an intellectual face, a beautiful mouth, (I am not responsible-for that, an artist said so,) very fine teeth, a good temper, (when not trifled with,) a vindictive disposition, no piety, very scheming, very artful, very insincere, and a ruling passion to see you well settled in life; and to that end am I now devoting all my energies. "I am at present the guest of a young widow, whose good qualities I can sum up in a very brief space of time. "She- is very beautiful, very rich, imperious as Juno, and the blind dupe of your humble servant; has two children, a girl and boy, the former very sickly, and I think, or hope at least, about to go to Heaven; the latter a high-spirited, mettlesome lad of ten years, whom I think our joint efforts, work- ing to that end, we might soon teach the submis- sion he has never known. "Now then, brother mine, pack your sac de nuit and bid farewell to your dark-eyed Cara Bellas, with more beauty than gold-hasten to grasp the   "4      CURRER LYE. prize I hold to your admiring gaze-and believe me ever,     "Your devoted sister, MARIAN." Marian was just sealing this interesting letter as Kate Lyle entered. "A love letter, Marian?" said Kate, smiling. 'Yes," replied Marian, gaily, "to my pet brother, and your loveliness was the theme, ma cher amie. I have not seen him since quite a child; he is five years my senior, and would be a gallant beau cava- lier for us, were he only here.   -so 4  -   CURRER LYE.        115 CHAPTER XV. KATE'S countenance wore a grave shade at this      . playful sally of Miss Marian, but it was not the       sternness of rebuke. Marian had aroused a slight interest in her bo- som to know what kind of person the brother of  so dear a friend must be, and perceiving this, was skillful tactician enough to let the subject rest for a time, feeling assured that Kate herself would be. the first to refer to it again.             !! She foresaw that Madge must be got out of the  house before her designs could be fully accomn- plished, and to-this end she brought the growing  attachment of Charlie Lyle for his. desolate little   X sister to bear upon the task she had undertaken, tot obtain her dismissal. She felt this would, be no  easy matter, for Kate disliked the etcetera of house- hold affairs, and Madge had ever directed everyi department so skillfully, that any confusion of do- mestic arrangementstwas entirely unknown; beside,  Madge had been the favorite servant in Peirce    Lyle's family, and had nursed Peirce when a baby. ,.!   "6      CURRER  LYE. Her only weapon, therefore was Kate's idolatry of her boy, and this she soon used to an ac- complishment of her purpose. Hitherto Charlie had been scarcely ever absent from his mother's side, but now, whole days would elapse, and he evinced no desire to leave his sister's bedside, insisting moreover that a couch should be placed for him in. her -room, that he might be there at night in the event of her growing worse. The servants, accustomed as they were to obeying his slightest wish, offered no resistance-to his command, and thus gradually was the estrangement between mother and son widened almost imperceptibly. Their deep affection had been based upon a foundation too insecure to be perpetuated when the reasoning powers of the pampered child should assert their influence over the array of selfishness and display that had characterized it; and he now, even at his early age, inherited all his father's love of justice, combined with hatred of oppression. Some one, his own quick instincts had taught him, had placed a barrier between him and Currer, and with his father's staunch-determination, he resolved to overthrow it; but as yet could not have done so at the expense of his mother's feelings, had not Miss Marian been ever at her side, preventing the free and uninterrupted intercourse and interchange of feeling that had subsisted between them. \   CURRER LYE.        117       1 Kate's pride was wounded to the quick, by Charlie's attentions to the child, and Marian kin- died against the unconscious and unoffendi-ng  Madge, the fire of resentment in her bosom, suf-     X fering no incident, however trifling, to escape her    I invidiousness, if it was susceptible of being tor .  tured into fuel to feed the bitterness of spirit she had so warily fastened there. There was no im-       ]I pulse in the disposition of this wily woman. Ever calm and perfectly self-possessed, she emulated the    ,5 spider in the subtle patience she displayed in weav-  ing her web of duplicity, and the gradual enmesh-  ing of her victim in its tissue of deception. To :    X her it mattered not how slowly crept the poison  she distilled in her own black heart, through the life and being of her dupe. She could wait-though slow it was still sure-- and days, weeks and' months were to her but as so much space of time that brought her to the reali- zation of her hopes, and destined to crown her       schemes with perfect success. It has been-truly exemplified that great minds exercise a fearful degree of power over weaker in-  tellects; fearful, I say, for the reason that such power  brings with it a responsibility that may not be, lightly cast away, while we are accountable beings;  and as the human mind is more prone to evil than  good, it may too often prove a beacon so delusive     }   "8      CURRER LYE. to those who steer theirs frailer barks far by its treacherous beacon as to engulf them in an ocean of crime instead of leading them to a haven of good deeds. Marian Sley had been gifted with an intellect the capacity of which, under some circumstances, could have recognized no bounds. There was no question too abstruse, no theory too bold for it to seize with avidity, analyze in the most comprehen. sive manner, and with striking originality of con. ception, deduce from it new features. Here was one of the noblest gifts of God per- verted to the basest and most grovelling purposes. Crawling  like a poisonous reptile, its possessor knew no higher attribute than to leave the trail of the serpent over every bright flower that bloomed in the garden of peace, and to plant the sting in the unsuspecting heart that cherished her; and in this wreck of wasted powers we read the curse of mean-dependence. From a child, this woman felt her own immea- surable superiority, that should have lifted her from the servility of station against whieh her very soul revolted.  There was much of evil in her nature, but no trait that a judicious fostering of the good which counter-balanced it might not have eradicated. She felt all the yearnings of ambition, and had there been a guiding spirit to bid it flow in a proper   CURRER  LYE.       119  channel, the mind must have been proportionably     A exalted by its influence. Mistaken kindness had     ,; given this being opportunities of education too limited to prevent the greatness of her mind from o'erleaping the contracted boundaries which ought  to prison it, yet ,sufficient to convince her that there :i were waters of knowledge that stretched far away,    : wave upon wave, until ]ost in illimitable space,--. and she thirsted to drink of the refreshing streams that were their tributaries.               ; But poverty hugged its rags upon the barren  throne of an indomitable pride within her breast,  and when she saw herself scorned by the imperi-     1 ous daughters of the rich, she asked herself, "For   ? what am I despised?" and Poverty, chuckling with! devilish glee, answered, " because -of me-because of  a me!"      *                    X Pride whispered, "cast back scorn for scorn ;." and this she did, till starvation stared at her  through the railings of the pauper's graveyard,1 and she flew shuddering back to her hateful thral- dom. Had she an aspiration, it was crushed down by  the iron hand of conventionalism, for society cried out against an intercourse between rich and poor! and closed its portals upon such presumption.  Her ambition rebuked by those who should have encouraged it-occupying the equivocal position    120     CURRER   LYE. of half teacher, half menial,-despising those she served, yet learning to mask her every thought lest it should engender contumely-she lived for. revenge upon her persecutors. Her submission learned her craft; and low cunning, the parent of deceit, disseminated its foul streams through every vein of thought. Masking her heart had taught her to mask her face, until it became impenetrable to the most rigid scrutiny. She could smile with -the bitterest hatred lurk- ing beneath the semblance of affability, and laugh while the fires of rage consumed her, and her blood flowed like lava through her veins. She could weep at will, and bow in humility of seeming to pray, yet to herself owned no divinity or belief in a higher power. To herself she said: "I would have started fUir in the race, and won by an upright conscience. Ye bade me creep in the dust like a worm, and ye trampled on me till the bad spirit within me triumphed over the good, and drove it forth. "As ye have fostered the evil, so shall ye reap it; but not till, like a pestilence, it has blighted all healthy life around it-as ye have blasted every cherished hope of mine, which, had ye nourished, would have blossomed into beauty!"' Kate Lyle, of all her school acquaintances, had   CURRER LYE.        121 been her only associate; had befriended her in every possible manner, and had openly avowed her determination to shield her from malicious persecution: but, embittered as she had become, Marian was incapable of gratitude, and the efforts of her too confiding friend to emancipate her from the tyranny of those around her, was repaid by treachery the most base ind ungrateful. Spring was just scattering her buds upon the green carpet of mother earth, and never did the blue-eyed goddess own a more grateful votary than Currer Lyle. With its dawn came the spirit of renewed health ; and though still feeble% and only gentle exercise in the open carriage could, as yet, be ventured upon, she seemed to drink in huge draughts of pure deliciousness from every gentle air that dallied with the dewy clouds. Her little heart throbbed with wild exultation as her ear, attuned to the finest harmony, listened to the bird-notes echoing through wood and grove, while every bright-hued flower and simple violet called forth some exclamation which breathed from the fulness of a poetic soul. The dark shade of care was fast fading from her brow, and the sadness no longer dimmed her large mournful eyes. -Between'her and Charlie a de- lightful congeniality was manifested in their quick   122     CURRER LYE. appreciation of the beautiful, while his cheerful and volatile disposition enlivened their rambles and devotions to the shrine of infant nature. On a lovely afternoon, some four weeks after the re- covery of Currer, Charhe had proposed a drive and luncheon in a beautiful piece of woodland which skirted the road some five miles from the city. Madge was to make all requisite preparations and accompany them in the carriage. The happy little party, after an early dinner, set out with heightened anticipations of enjoyment, and leaving them to reach their destination, we will look in upon Kate Lyle, whom Marian has just informed (witther peculiar ingenuoushess) of their projected amusement, not forgetting to relieve Charlie and Currer of all responsibility, by ascribing the- plan of the little pleasure trip to the fertile and ingeni- ous invention of Madge.  With knitted brow and lips tightly compressed, Kate paced her chamber, almost refusing to believe that her boy could prove renegade to her love, ,   forgetting how little she herself had taught him to revere her as a mother.  Marian had often warned her of the jesuitical influence of Irish Catholicism, and now her fears took a new form, while the future mirrored Charlie ,kneeling at the altars of Rome, through the moni- torship of poor, unoffending, simple-minded Madge.   CURRER   LYE.      123 True, Madge was a Roman Catholic, but with a simple heart worshipped at the shrine her fathers had worshipped at before her, not asking why or wherefore; going regularly to mass and the con- fessional, telling her rosary each night, and breath- ing a fervent prayer for all the household, com- mended  her soul to " sweet Mary mother," devoutly crossed herself and lay her head upon her pillow with a pious feeling of security, not troubling herself for explanations of her creed. She served the Protestant's God with a pure heart, for she did not believe there was a divinity for each different persuasion. She knew but one, and imagined that Baptist and Episcopal, Catholic and Presbyterian, though each prayed in their own way, would each in the end stand at the same tribunal, and as they had lived, so should they be judged; nor did she dream that the great Father of Mercies would close the sanctuary of Heaven against any true Christian, whatever had been their form of worship. "Poor foolish Madge," I hear some one say; but I am of the same opinion, so shall make no com- ments. Scarcely had the children recovered irom the slight fatigue of their excursion, and while they were yet discussing its 'pleasures-ere Mrs. Lyle's maid summoned Madge to the presence of her   12 4     CURRER LYE. mistress, who, ving full vent to her hitherto sup. pressed rage, heaped upon her the most unjust acu ations, and having ihausted her strength, concludeda by telling her-that she must leave the h ouse on the following day.,^ lHad a thunderbolt descended at her feet, Madge could not have been more completely overwhelmed with horror. For nearly thirty years she had served the family of Peirce, and from the hour he brought the lovely Kate Elliston to his house, a bride, she had loved her as a dear child of her own. Her childrenwere blended with her heart-strings, and to send her forth in- her old age, tearing her from- those nurselings, was snapping those tender, endearing ties, and sending her in sorrow to the grave. Never before had Kate spoken an unkind word to her, and when the order was given for her to leave the room and prepare herself for departure, she awakened as from a bewildering dream, to a full realization of her meaning. The poor old creature fell upon her knees and implored Kate not to send her from "the bairns." "Oh, I couldn't live and not to see them, the dar- ling craythurs. Sure it's meself that'll never cross my lips with a word to them, only ye'll not be par- tin' me from where I can, be lookin' at 'em." Kate felt her resolution giving way; and was -c 'R   CURRER  LYE.      125 about to utter the words of forgiveness, when Miss Marian Sley entered the room, and ashamed of her own weakness, she sternly turned away and left the room. As she did so, a demoniac smile of triumph illuminated the stolid countenance of that incar- nate fiend of mischief, and she followed her. The old woman crept trembling from the room, the scalding tear running adown her furrowed cheeks, and clasping the wondering children to her bosom, sobbed convulsively, giving way to the most passionate grief-yet it was in. vain they sought to solicit from her the cause. She felt that on the morrow she must part with them forever, and she could not bear their sorrow then. "To-morrow," she said, " will be full time to be lookin' at them, in the great trouble that's comin' to them, the craythurs." And when she had seen them quietly.'in bed, she, feigned to sleep, that they might not keep awake; but when they lay locked in slumber, she rose, and leaning over the little couch of Currer, moaned out so piteously,  "Oh, must I be lavin' ye??" Currer knew there was some fearful trouble that had agitated her, and had not slept, but lain silent- ly watching her. Rising up in the bed she spoke to the faithful   126     C U'tRER LYE. creature, -whose head 'was buried in the pillows to smother her sobs. "You must leave us, Madge! what do you mean? ' :She saw the deadly pallor that overspread the face of the child, and dared not reply; but Currer had already divined the whole impending calamity, and with parted lips and eyes staring in a fixed and stony gaze, she sate like a statue, while Madge, terrified by her strange aspect, dared not approach her, lest she should kill her by arousing her too suddenly. The parted lips were strangely white, and an awful marble-like rigidity marked the face, while a small stream of blood flowed from her mouth, staining the snowy covering, and making the pic- ture truly terrible to look upon. , :; Seeing she did not move, Madge shrieked for help, and soon the whole household was astir. Dr. Grant was sent for, and in wondering haste stood by her bedside, whom he had left but a few i short .hours previous in high spirits, with every prospect of speedy and entire recovery. To the somewhat sneering question of Miss Ma- rian as to the nature of the attack, he made no re- ply; but to Kate, who petulantly remarked, "' There is always something the matter with that child; what is the trouble now, Doctor?" he turned al- most fiercely as he answered, "Epilepsy, madam." It was not long before Dr. Grant knew the cause   OURRER, LYE.       127 of Currer's relapse, and going to Kate he said, in a tone full of authority, "I have hired Madge to wait upon your daughter during her illness. Should you remove her, I will not answer for the patient's life; but you must;" and with an expression of dis- gust mantling his fine face, he strode from the room.   128      CURRER LYE. CHAPTER    XVI. WEEK after week crept slowly by, and Currer, whose nervous system had received a terrible shock, was still confined to her room. Madge was her constant attendant, but the pride which ever reigns in the true Irish heart had been deeply wounded, and she telt that she might not remain to engender contention beneath the roof that had for so many years sheltered her. Her only brother had settled in Texas; to him she resolved to go; and to this end requested Dr. Grant to indite to him a letter, informing him of her plans. The letter was duly forwarded to its destination, and an answer received with a hearty welcome in store for her, and she now resolved to leave the house unknown to Currer. It was on a lovely night in June that a hack was slowly driven up to the door, her little trunk placed upon it, and Madge, with her full-bordered cap arranged in her own peculiar style, stole in to take a last look at the sleeping child.   CURRER LYE.        129 Quiet reigned throughout the house, and the quick breathing of Currer as she lay in a fever- ish slumber, was the only sound that broke the stillness.  Poor Madge gazed at her as she lay there, one little hand nestling under her cheek, and the pure white brow, so shining in the moonlight, and felt she would have given worlds, were they hers to bestow, for one kiss from the sweet lips, yet dared not venture lest she might awaken her. A low moan, full of heart-break, escaped her lips as she turned away, and touching something with her feet, she stooped to pick it up; it was a tiny slip- per of Currer's, and hastily thrusting it into her bosom, she gave one last, lingering look at her who had worn it, and left the room. Tapping at Kate's chamber door, she entered. W' el, Madge, what do you want?"  "If you please, ma'am, I'm going now, and I'd like to say good-bye to you." "Had you not better remain till to-morrow?" said Kate, for her own conscience whispered her she had been very wrong. "Oh, no, ma'am, it's leavin' like a thief I am, for that I can't be lookin' at the wee darlins at the partin'. trouble, and shuttin' up against their coaxin'. May the blessin' of the Lord be with them and 'you." And sobbing as if her heart 6*   180     CURRER LYE. would break, the last friend of Currer Lyle de- parted. Kale's pillow of down was hard the remainder of that night, for an uneasiness as to the effect of this blow upon her child drove sleep from her eyelids. With the early dawn Currer had arisen, and sitting propped in the crimson-curtained easy chair, close to the open window, awaited Madge to come and dress her. At the usual hour Miss Sley entered the room and said: "Your mamma wishes me to dress you." An expression of intense pain swept over her face, as with an effort at calmness, she replied: "Thank you, I would prefer Madge." "Your nurse has gone away; hereafter I am to dress you, and I expect obedience from you, or you must expect chastisement from me; your mamma has given me authority to curb your self- will.'" Slowly the child rose from the chair, and with a countenance that startled even the crafty Marian, fixed her eyes upon her, as'though with that burn- ing gaze to penetrate the inmost recesses of her soul, took her hand and said, i Do you feel my heart?"Marian started as the rapid pulsations stirred beneath it. "If you touch me I shall die," continued she.   CURRER   LYE.        131 Truth looked out from her despairing calmness, and she felt that to conquer that child was to shroud her for the grave.  Not another word was spoken, and she returned         , to Kate to recommend milder measures.  Currer now felt that she must learn to wait upon  herself. She murmured not, but another shaft had  pierced the sensitive bosom   and left its poison  there.    132      CURRER  LYE. CHAPTER XVII. TURNING from these domestic bickerings, we will gaze upon a fairer picture. Far away to. wards softer skies, a gallant ship with spreading sails of snowy canvas, skimmed like a sea-bird over the surging billows of old Atlantic, speeding onward to the home of freedom. In one of the cabins sat a tall, elegantly formed man, of apparently thirty years of age; his light blue eyes and waves of golden hair betrayed 'his Saxon origin, despite the deep olive hue of his complexion, which bespoke a lengthened sojourn in foreign climes. A robe-de-chambre of rich cashmere, with its full flowing sleeves, displayed the symmetry of a beautiful hand, upon Which glistened a single jewel like a blaze of light. A large crimson cushion lay at his feet, upon which reclined a young and exquisitely beautiful girl, across whose brow the light breezes of fifteen ,ummers scarce had played. The massive braids of her chestnut hair, twined   CURRER  LYE.       183 with a fillet of gold, and gathered into a net-work of seed-pearl at the back of her classic shaped head, defined the beautiful contour of her face. The eyebrows were jetty black, and delicately penciled with the slightest perceptible inclination to arch. Her long silken lashes rested upon the glowing cheek, while the white teeth just peeped from the parted coral lips. One beautiful arm was carelessly flung over her companion's knee, and her head rested upon it, while she slept. Her dreams must have been pleasant ones, for ever and anon the face broke into a dimpled smile. If content and happiness dwelt in her young, trusting heart, mantling her lovely countenance with their glowing beams, her companion did not share it with her. His high forehead was coiltracted in the lines of deep intensity of thought, and as he smoothed the parted folds of shining hair back from her brow, and pressed his lips upon its pure tablet, he murmured, "Poor child, poor child." Gentle as was their pressure, she awakened, and observing the care-worn expression of his face, gazed at him with a wondering look in her large liquid eyes, long and earnestly, as though she would read his inmost thoughts, but the opaque eyes revealed nothing, and a tear-drop rested upon her long lashes as she buried her head in his bosom.   134     CURRER LYE. Tenderly he raised it, and smilingly diverted her as though-petting a spoilt child. The joyous smile again illumined her eyes, and snatching a guitar, she flung the broad ribbon over her shoulder, and as her slight fingers wandered over the chords, her voice burst forth in liquid melody. First in low, sweet bird-notes she Warbled, then with kindling eye commenced a wild, impassioned, romantic love- song, whose strains embodied the soul of music, and even the old sailors, keeping the middle watch, sat intently listening, for the time forgetting Tom Taf- frail's yarn, with which they had been whiling away the hours. "I'll tell you what it is," said old Helm (as the sailors called him), ejecting a small sea of juice of the weed, and turning the quid to the other side of his mouth, "that's a queer craft be- low, and may my grog be stopped if I don't be- lieve that lubber she's got in convoy is hanging out false signals to her." "Avast there, shipmate, and port your helm; if they're sailing under false colors, it's the captain's watch," said old Jack Rattler. "Swish my tarpaulin, but she's got heels like a hangel, and she sings like a mermaid. It reminds me of the time I was aboard the Lively Moll, 'bout five-and-twenty years ago. "We waSfive days out from Gibraltar, when the   CURRER LYE.        135  surgeon was called below to the cap'n's cabin, where he diskivered a purty little craft hoisting signals of distress.                  .  "He couldn't keep her before the wind, she was sinking so fast; and before he could help her, she lay to in dead calm, and her sperrit went steering for another port. "The cap'n' went clean out of his reckoning about it, for he had smuggled' her aboard some- how, and he couldn't own up a clear account to the log above. Howsomever, we sewed her up in an old sail, gave her ballast enough to send her below, and in a few minutes gave her a wide berth. Well, that night the moon shone brighter than a new tarpaulin, and the light in the binnacle looked ashamed of itself. "We, were going about fifteen knots, before a spanking breeze, and just as it struck two bells, Bill Hardy and me keeping watch and watch, we heard just such music as that gal makes, only you could have heard it if it had been blowing a hur- ricane. "Well, messmate, we lay to and listened, andi old Hardy looked at me, and says he, 'Jack Helm, that ain't no airthly music.' "Well, it kept a gettin' clearer and more mourn- ful, so we went aft and looked astern. "I shan't forget that sight as long as I live, mess- 7*   136     CURRER LYE. mates. Right in the wake of the ship sat this same gal, with her hair streamin' over her pale face, and 3:, a behind her, as far as you could look, stretched a whole fleet of mermaids, riding along after her on the white foam, and singin' with her. "All of a sudden the moon went under the black- est kind of a cloud, and there wan't a capfull of wind; in five minutes, before we had time to take in sail, an awful squall struck us and carried away our nainmast. "We scudded under bare poles as long as we could, taking turn and turn at the pump; but the sea was a breakin' over us so fast we knew we couldn't stand it much longer, when, jest as we were saying our prayers, up comes the cap'n,- lookin' as if he'd jest got out of bedlam, and rushin' for'ard, jumps overboard before any one could stop him. "The music, for an instant, sounded clearer than ever above the howlin' of the storm, and then one loud scream, fairly stunned us. I'm sure I couldn't listen to the like again. "We didn't hear no more singin' after that, and in about two hours the sun shone out as if nothin' had happened; but, messmates, that was my last cruise in the Lively Mo1i." IFour:some time after bold Helm had finished his yprn, not a word was spoken; for there is ever a superstition about the stoutest sailor while at sea,   CURRER   LYE.      137 which they would ridicule on land as too absurd  to listen to. However, the story had its effect, and  many a little remark ventured upon, from time to  time, within ear-shot of the captain, betrayed their anxiety to reach port with, as they termed it, their "evil cargo."      '  Leaving them, with our best wishes for their welfare, and hoping that prosperous winds may waft them safely and speedily to their destination, we will return to New York, and patiently await their arrival.   188     CURRER LYE. CHAPTER    XVIII. JOHN BRADLEY had changed his "lodgings," and if he had gained in quietude, even by the wreck of old associations, he would have had good reason to congratulate himself upon escaping the designs of the enamored Pugsby and the sympathizing Gubbins. But, alas! for the fallacy of human hopes, and the uncertainties of life. John Brad- ley had run his foundered bark upon the quick- sands of a boarding-house. Mrs. Paterson was a perfect specimen of this class of people, somewhat upon thePugsby build, but intmothing else resembling her. Were an application made for board, one glance sufficed to inform her of the precise ccumstances of the applicants, and as to the probability of their paying when the we-ek was up. Had she any parties in the house, about whose ability to "settle" she entertained a doubt, she would go playfully in the middle of the week to   CURRER LYE.        139 know if they could lend her "a little change to go to market," or else, "her landlord had called upon her quite unexpected, and she had the rent to make up." And after getting the amount due to her, she would suddenly remember that "a lady who occu- pied this very room, a year ago, left her furniture in it while she went a voyage with her husband, who was captain of a ship, and now she was ex- pected baqk every day. She exceedingly regretted it, but she would require the parties to suit them- selves that day, if possible, as she wished Sally to whitewash it on the following day." If she was asked if there was no other room in the house vacant, "Oh, dear, no!" she would re- ply, "not room enough to stow a cat." She was sure she was "very sorry to part with such pleasant people, but had no doubt they would suit them- selves much better than there," and "what was her loss would be their gain."  And after leaving the house, should the parties happen to pass it the next day, they would observe a small slip of paper wafered on one side of the door: ,'To let, with :or without board, a second story front room, suitable for a-ggentleman and his wife, or two single gentlemen. Terms moderate." Mrs. Paterson knew "when people wast going    "O      c CURRER LYE. to pay up, by the way they sneaked in at break. fast, and didn't care: about any dinner," etc. -In short, she was a sort of barometer for deter. mining the rise and fall of her boarders. She had one daughter; that is, only one that was eligible for matrimonial speculations-the elder one hav. ing made a most brilliant alliance, a year previous to our introduction. She had captivated a captain. Bobbs was his name-Captain Bobbs-and he was master and part owner of the "Hopping Flea," a fishing- smack that sailed from New York to Nantucket; and every new boarder was edified with the witti. cisms of Captain Bobbs, as they were retailed by his honored mamma-in-law, who, strange to say, seemed to see their point, and relish them more than any one else. The youngest daughter had always "enjoyed" delicate health, according to her mamma's account, and therefore was exempt from all domestic em- ployments, save picking and washing strawherries, and counting so many for each saucer; for, as mamma said, "servants will eat 'em, if they are trust. edwith 'em." And she was also;deputed to take t  one end of the table, which she did every evening at tea, arrayed in her most becoming dress-short sleeved, and long mits on her hands, while a small reticule was always swinging on her right   CURRER  LYE.       141  arm; for what purpose no one could tell, except  some few, who had observed, whenever the door bell rang, and the servant ushered a visitor into the parlor, open went the said reticule and a clove  hastily thrust into her mouth. Mrs. Paterson took the other end of the table; but mother or daughter never ate anything with the boarders; but, not eating anything, were con- stantly gazing at those who were, which gave every  one the impression that they were counting the exact cost of what each one consumed. Miss Victorine, or, as her mother used to call  her, Victoree, for short, played the piano and ac- companied herself with her voice. There was "such a nice, genteel young man,"  used to sing duetts with her, and Mrs. Paterson was very fond of him. He was a seven-dollar clerk in a Catharine-street dry goods store; mea- sured yards of calico for Irish servant girls, ogling them the while till they would leave the store, saying, "Och, isn't he the pleasant biy!" Or, when serving a customer who seemed rather green,  tipping the wink to his fellow-clerks, who, grouped at one end of the store, watched him as he played off the most absurd pranks, or told them lies a la   , Munchausen, without the wit. He went to small  evening parties, played pawns, and kissed the girls  in "stand in the well," "door-keeper," etc.; ate  z,!,   "2      CURRER  LYE. philoepenas, and if "caught," presented a plated ring with a blood-red glass stone, for which he generally paid seventy-five cents; wore very short- tailed coats, -with very long sleeves; very tight boots, footed with patent-leather; pants very tight in the legs, and sported an alpacca vest, bound with black velvet, and wore a set of buttons enam elled with dogs' heads. His cravat was usually blue, with little red spots, and the ends of it projected something less than three-quarters of a mile beyond his ears. He wore his hair very long, falling quite over his coat-collar; it was very light, and by dint of plait- ing it every night, was given to waving through the day. His eyes were very light grey, with an inclina- tion to be red around the lids. He danced polka and schottische, quoted "Oh, ever thus in child- hood's hour," etc., and sang, "I'd offer thee this hand of mine." On the whole, he was just such a young man as always have the entree to the houses of a certain class, whose daughters would be shocked at asso- ciating with a "low mechanic." He was very much at home with Mrs. Paterson, whom  he called- "aunty," and with her daughter, whom he called "cousin Vic." Favor with the former he had fall len into, by presenting her with various pattern. ,$ **    CUR RER LYE.        143 books for patchwork; and had ingratiated himself  with the latter by saving pictures from the linens, and pretty handkerchief boxes, with pictures on the covers, which he usually sent to her with a card containing some poetical quotation, and when he went home pretended to have forgotten it; as, for instance, Miss Victorine would remark at table, with a triumphant look at the two Misses Bibbs, who were " nothing but teachers in a public-school,  and-made believe they wouldn't marry because they  wouldn't desert their poor mother," whom they  supported. "Mr. Joannes (his name was Jones, but he Itali- cized it), I received your beautiful present."  Whereupon he would look up wonderingly,  very innocent, and say- "I really don't understand."  "Why, don't you recollect -  this morning?"     : Joannes, with an air of meditation, replies, "In-  deed no." "O, try to think "  After a momentary reflection he does remember; "Very pretty, was it not, Miss V ictorine?"  "Oh, very sweet," says Victorine, with a sweep- ing glance at Bibbs the younger, who, having fin- ished taking tea, rises at that moment and leaves  the room. - - .        -   "4     CURRER LYE  "Did you see that? I declare, some people :are so envious," whispers cousin Vie. x i Now Mrs. Paterson knew, as soon- as she had glanced at John Bradley, that he was not only a gentleman, but had money to back it. And some two days after his arrival as an in- mate, she suggested to Victorine that Mr. Albert Joannes was very useful to have about the house; but, as Captain Bobbs said, "money made the mare go," and John Bradley must be her mark. From thenceforward she was to keep Mr. Joannes at a distance; frown down the slightest hint at a proposal; in short, "give him the mit- ten," and " set her cap" at the new boarder. To her mother's injunctions, she listened very attentively, and promised to obey; retired to her room to peruse the last new novel, entitled "The Maiden's Vow: or, The Blood Red Cat of the Green Mountains;" and to contrast or make comparisons between the hard fate of the heroine and her own similar position. After tea, having first contrived to slip a note into the hand of her ( darling Albert," requesting him to meet her at the corner in half an hour, she asked permission to visit a young companion, a short distance from home, and having gained her moteer's cohsent, was soon seated with her plighted Joannes, taking a shilling's worth of omnibus to-   ,.. .t,    CTURRER  LYE.       145 wards tiit ;Battery, where, with his arm around her waist, she told her tale of" woe."          Now it happened, somewhat unfortunately, per-     i haps, that Mr. Joannes had for some time been "selling "P. M.'s, or, for the benefit of those who  may be in the dark, I will explain, that "prem-  iums" meant what shopkeepers term "lace rem-       i nants," which being folded and marked with the  number of yards, as an incentive to use their talent in disposing of them, each clerk received a quarter 'for every one he sold; and these were called P. M's.-                     . 7         /    / ,  -   -  '        .. ..?   "6     CURRER  LYE.   - CHAPTER XIX. ON the evening of Miss Victorine's distressing intelligence, Albert Joannes had received some fif- teen dollars " premium money," and feeling not only "flush," but magnanimous, he immediately deters mined not only to put lance in rest for the woe- begone damsel, but to constitute himself her pro. tector, and shield her from maternal tyranny. It was therefore resolved upon between them, that on the following Sunday evening she should meet him at the house of a mutual friend, who should, in the meantime, be admitted to their confidence, and after being duly arrayed in bridal robes, said friend assuming the position of bridesmaid, that then and there the twain should become bone of one bone and flesh of one flesh. Meantime she should feign implicit obedience to her mother's mandate, and ' lead John Bradley on to the accomplishment of her mother's matrimonial design, until;such time as Albert Joannes should deem it expedient to claim her as his lawful wedded wife S ;  r" *--.^ /   CURRER LYE.        147  John Bradley, in all the innocence of his heart, plodded on in his own quiet way, sometimes spend- ing an evening with Kate; and when going home with so much happiness in his heart, that he did not see or hear anything that was transpiring around him, repeating to himself Kate's "Good evening, Mr. Bradley," striving to construe it into  a very slight expression of something a little more than a simple good evening that she would have welcomed any one else with, and Miss Victorine  might have squalled, "Meet me by moonlight  alone, love," twice as loud, while he would have   . been entirely oblivious of her efforts; for those little words of Kate were echoing in his heart, and  way down in its quiet depths, vibrating like mys-  tic music, breathing in sweet soul whispers, and floating off in liquid beauty, till his spirit seemed  to lave in a crystalline flood of light.        1 One evening she had said, "How are you, dear  Mr. Bradley?" and John walked up and down the quiet street, past her house, nearly all that night, murmuring, "Dear Mr. Bradley; she said dear;" and then he went to his room, but not to sleep ; for "Dear Mr. Bradley" was running through his       A mind, and he could not forget it.  Since the death of Peirce, Kate had received no  company, and she now felt all the depression and !   "8     C GURRER LYE. listlessness incident to the demon "ennui," from which it seemed almost impossible to arouse her. Currer had so far recovered her health as to leave her room, and Charhe had returned to school, so that she now sought companionship in the library, among the volumes she had been used to reading with her father; and though there was many a tear-drop shed as her eyes rested upon the favorite passages that he had penciled round, still there was a new comprehension dawning upon her, which invested them with a new interest, for every one bore upon his bitter griefs that were slowly wearing out his manly heart. Since the departure of Madge, Currer's mind had received an impulse which had, for a child, given it a most startling development. Continued attacks of illness had given her a look of premature age, and had imparted a sallow- ness to her complexion; while her features, natu- rally masculine, looked positively coarse, from the excessive thinness of her face. Her arms were long and bony, and your first impression of her would have been most disagree- able; for there was a look of mingled suffering and defiance gleaming from her full grey eyes, which, by a mere observer;, would have been mistaken for sullenness; but to those who knew her, there were moments when the fires of intellect burned bright-   CURRER'LYE.        149 ly in their clear depths, and you could imagine the very soul of poetry had made its home in her bosom.  ' News, darling, news!" said Marian one bright afternoon in September, as she bounded into Kate's ; boudoir, waving a letter over her head. "My truant brother will be here very, very soon, if he has not already arrived." Kate looked up languidly from the book she had been carelessly perusing. "You will be very happy to seeihim," she replied.'- "Indeed I shall," said Marian, " and far happier to introduce him to you; for though I don't know  how he looks, you must like him for his sister's sake." "I shall have little cause, for I suppose he will take you from me, and I am very lonely."  Marian dropped her eyes, and when she raised them to Kate's, they were suffused with tears, a la crocodile. "Oh, that is unkind," she murmured, as Kate  drew her to her bosom.  "Forgive me, mon pauvre -amie," and Marian smiled with her head over her friend's shoulder. Of my lady readers I would ask, how many of you have just such friends as Marian Sley? And to you I would say-cast them from your bosoms;  there is a pestilence in their ver- breath. Tear i   150   -  CURREn   LYE. them from your hearts; there is -poison on their tongues; close against them the sense of hearing, for their voices are the hisses of serpents, and foul corruption nestles in their kiss, to blister all they touch. That evening brought a note from Ethelbert: "My Dear Sister:-I am at Palmo's, and will pay my devoirs to you and the charming widow to-morrow  evening at eight; until that hour I 4 shall be completely occupied in making some clear. ances at the custom-house, and till then adieu. "ETHETRERT.:' As Marian read this note, she stole a sweeping glance at Kate, who was surveying herself in the cheval glass opposite her, and she at once detect- ed the awakened spirit of coquetry about to resume its throne of vanity; for it gleamed forth from her eyes, which now flushed with their wonted bril- liancy, and glowed upon her cheeks, where the rose and lily strove for mastery, as each emo- tion sent the pulses of her heart dancing through her veins, as they had been wont to flow when the old-time tenderness had lingered -there; but now it was like the sunbeams gleaming o'er some crumbled fane, or peering through some ruined fount, where the crystal waters played no more in /    CURRER LYE.        151 liquid melody, nor sacred chaunts made holy offer- ings to Heaven, while meek humility bowed before    }, the splendors of its shrine. .  . The first simple freshness had faded like the summer^flowers whose scattered leaves are borne away uipon the invisible wings of autumn, while     X the last sigh, .ere they perish, breathes forth their  X sweetest fragrance.                    , On the fobllowing evening, for the first time in many months, her splendid rooms were once more     I^ thrown open, and the blaze of light from the glit- tering chandeliers fell upon a select party of the wealth and fashion of the city. There was Mrs. DeCorme with her turban of massive coral, nod- ding and bowing right and left, as she chaperoned her two daughters, Cara and Estelle, the former a bewitching brunette, and the latter a languishing    blonde, of almost peerless loveliness.   There, like a bright star, shone the gay young    Mrs. Delamere, with less beauty but more wit, in     whose' train followed the blase men of fashion, to    listen to her sparkling jeu d'esprits, and retail them   in the club or Cafe de Billiards .as original, build-   ing up a reputation as wits upon the brains of a woman-who looked at them with her large grey eyes, read them   like volumes of infant lore,     laughed at them in her heart, and, despised them    in her soul-using them but to create envy in the    152     CURRER  LYE. breast, of her more beautiful compeers, who sighed in vain for her peculiar powers of fascination. And as she stood the centre of a group 'who hung upon her lightest tone, and with her grace. ful, easy manner, entertained twenty with more ease than many a haughty belle found in her efforts to amuse a single dangler, her husband watched her from a distance with a slight ex. pression of pride mantling his handsome face, and smiling a peculiar smile as the whispered sentence "Poor Delamere" would fall upon his ear; and why he should seem thus secretly pleased I will in- form you. In the meantime, Asmodeus-like, we must, for a few seconds, leave Kate Lyle's brilliant assemblage. If you watch Mrs. Delamere closely, you will see her gracefully glide away from the courtiers of fashion who are doing her homage, and, glanc- ing at her husband, moue from the rooms. Scarce a moment and she has passed out, and entering her carriage,-is rapidly driven home-- with one bound she has sprang up the marble steps of her stately mansion, and flinging her opera cloak to a servant as she flies up stairs, flings open the door of her fairy boudoir, where sits a matron- ly-looking negro woman with showy turban and kerchief, and despite of her remonstrance '4 Now don't you wake him up, missus," pushes aside the   CURRE'R LYE. ,     153      1 soft curtains of azure silk that shade a little ebony  crib, and catching up her sleeping boy of two sum-  mers, dances around the room, holding him above     her head the while, and then clasping him to her    I bosom, covers his little face with kisses, while  "Poor Delamere " laughs heartily at her enthusi- asm, and the secretly pleased but pouting Aunt Lovey, says, "It's de mos shameful to wake de bressed chile when he's done gone to sleep." And then, when the large wondering eyes begin to droop, after a hearty game of romps, and the little sunny head is cuddled upon Aunt Lovey's bosom, Delamere sits gazing into the clear depths     of his wife's soft, laughing eyes, and with her dainty little jeweled hand nestled in his, pushes back her waving hair from .the clear open brow, and imprinting a kiss upon it, says, "Do you know, Nelly, that I am called Poor Delamere?" A peal of merry laughter answered him, and      { Aunt Lovey says, "You gwine to' wake this chile agin?"  Having looked in upon "Poor Delamere," and shown you how much he was to be pitied, return we to Kate and her different guests.          J "I think it very strange" said the pass Miss  Morenos, "that Mrs. Lyle should issue cards so soon after her husband's death."  "Looking out for another husband," said a  X   154       CURRER  LYE. widow, whose charms had been in the market four successive seasons with never a bid for the comrn. modity. "I expected she would have retrenched after her husband's death," said a maiden lady of an unmentionable age, to a friend in the same predica. ment, who replied, "I have heard that the whole family is provided for by her husband's partner, a Mr. Bradley; but of course you won't mention it as coming from me." ', Oh! anything we say to each other, or course, we don't expect to mention again." And in ten minutes we find this same party entertaining two or three others with this piece of gossip. Marian Sley was a woman of too much good sense to venture on anything very youthful in the appointments of dress, for she possessed the grand secret of knowing how   to grow old gracefully. She knew that the attire suitable for a woman of twenty, bedecking one of thirty-eight, added ten years to her appearance, while a costume suitable to a  woman of forty, judiciously selected as to neutrality of tints, might make the comparison favorable between her and a person fifteen years her junior. Marian was perfectly conscious that her neck and arms were very beautiful, but that consciousness did not tempt her into a ridiculous affectation of *     e    CURRER LYE.,        155 juvenility, such as wearing a dress cut with an economy in silk, at the expense of her modesty. A plain quiet dress of soft gray silk, with a rolling collar of Mechn lace, falling from her throat to the point of the boddice, where it termi- nated with a noud of rich gray satin ribbon, en-  hanced the symmetry of her really fine figure.      H Her hair, arranged in smooth folds without orna- ment of any description, imparted a dignity to her appearance; and more than one expression of admiration was elicited by the perfect simplicity of her attire, while no one would have guessed her   :- age exceeded twenty-five.               ;- Marian received the guests and enacted the hostess   ] until Kate made her appearance in the rooms; and   - all were on the qzi vive to ascertain if she had faded much during her seclusion from the fashion- able world. As the hours sped on towards nine o'clock, Mr.    ! Ethelbert Sley was announced, and a slight flush mantled the marble-like countenance of Marian, as she greeted a tall, elegant looking man with that pe-  : culiar distingue and polished manner, which ever .. distinguishes the habitue of polite European society. A.. Every eye was fastened upon him, but he mani- fested no embarrassment. Moving amid the throng, his commanding figure seemed to inspire a degree    *: '3i   156      CURRER LYE. of deference and respect of which, to all appearance, he was entirely indifferent. An introduction had been eagerly sought by the lofty Mrs. De Corme, and already was he monopo. lized by the sprightly Cara, while her mother and sister listened with ill-concealed gratification and triumph to the encomiums and envious re. marks that were freely passed on all sides. "Here comes Mrs. Lyle," said Cara, and Ethel- bert involuntarily turned to look at his sister's ideal of beauty. Never had Kate looked lovelier than on that evening. A dress of silver-colored- satin, shaded with black and white tulle, which fell like fleecy clouds, their mingled tints blending into the lightest shadow of gray, with small bouquets of cypress carelessly disposed among its soft folds. A wreath of cypress, in the form of a demi-tiara, encircled her head, while the long trailing v*ine, pendants, mingled with one or two heavy shining curls, fell over her shoulder, reaching below her waist. Ethelbert Sley stood like one entranced, as she glided rather than walked to the centre of the room, and with queenly condescension received the compliments of her guests.- He had seen women as beautiful in face and form, but never one whose graceful dignity, calm self-possession,   CURRER   LYE.      157  and elegance of bearing would have graced a throne  and regal purple, as her on whom he gazed.'  Marian's slight touch upon his shoulder aroused him, and turning to her he said, "Present me." A slight deepening of the roseate tint upon her  cheek, alone revealed that Kate was conscious of     : his admiring gaze, as Marian said, "My brother,  Kate ;" but his bright eyes beamed more bright- ly, as with a smile of ineffable sweetness she pointed to a conversatione, and seating herself, motioned him to her side. Almost half an hour passed ere they perceived it, so animated had, been their conversation. "Oh! I shall be accused of partiality, and re-  missness in doing the honors," said Kate, gaily,  and rising from her seat; "but as Marian has promised not to forsake old friends, even for you,  I shall hope you will be a frequent visitor, sans  ceremonie, for Marian's sake;" and as she turned     : away, a voice full of significance echoed, "for  Marian's sake." Ethelbert started, and his eye  met Marian's as she passed him, repeating, "for Marian's sake." Ethelbert lingered late at the festive scene, seemingly unconscious of aught but the presence of Kate, watching her as she moved' 'mid the throng, now here, now there, dispensing  her smiles on all around; but a frown gathered upon his sister's brow as she saw Kate gracefully   158     CURRER LYE. decline his proffered escort to the supper-room, and seeking out John Bradley, take his arm and lead the way. A new light dawned upon Marian Sley at that moment. She marked the flush that suffused John Bradley's face, and the light of love that- mantled in his eyes, and glancing at Ethelbert significantly, left the room. But the reflection of that frown left a shadow on his brow, and he determined to win her though he died in the attempt. ,   CURRER  LYE.     159 *   '. CHAPTER XX. Two Pictures in the Drama of Life, etc.-What Money can and cannot Pu ase. I WILL raise the mysic curtain upon two pic- tures in the great drama of life. The deep-mouthed bell had tolled the hour of three, and its echoes were borne upon the mournful winds of autumn over a city that lay hushed in slumber. The deserted streets gave no token of the mighty stream that, heaving with the pulsations of human life, should resound beneath the laving of the liv- ing tide in a few short hours. The weary mechanic slept after his day of hon- est labor; the student pored over the volume by his waning taper; the poor author bent over his weary task, in his gloomy attic; and the drunk- ard lay in the close embrace of the red wine-god, while the demon Alcohol sat like an incubus on his breast; the poor seamstress strained her heavy eyes over the sliirt which was to buy bread upon   160     CURRER LYE. the morrow; the frail daughters of shame-God help them!-prowled in their usual haunts; the gambler, with distorted features, watched the haz- ard of the roulette-table; and the rich man lay dying beneath a gilded canopy. Darkness was upon his failing sight, and money could not buy one hour even from the stern senti- nel that, grim and cold, stood on the rich man's threshold. Money could rear aloft a splendid mausoleum, and the passer-by might wonder at its costliness; but money could not raze the monu- ment of memory in the human heart.  Money could emblazon that costly tablet with a record of good deeds; but money could not inscribe them upon the record of Heaven. Money could purchase the delicate satin that cased the remnants of frail humanity within the rosewood coffin; but money could not keep the worms from feasting and holding their revels there. Money could buy a pew with crimson cushions, and a gilded book of prayer; but it could not command a footstool at the feet of Jesus for they were not sold at auction ; and the poor man oft  rested in His bosom, while the rich stood afar off. Money could raise the voice of prayer for the erring soul; but money could not keep the poor orphan's unbought solicitations from mingling with   CURRER  LYE.      161  the same accents, as the same breath of air bore them up to the Mercy-Seat, where all were listened to alike. Money can buy a place in state and council; but not in the courts of Heaven. Money can buy the homage of the world; but not true friendship. Money can buy the. time of many; but cannot buy a moment when Death stands at the bedside.     i And Kate Lyle's father, with a million in his coffers, lay in the arms of Death. A few short hours, and she had been the queen of Beauty's court in her own mansion, where mirth and revelry resounded. Now, in sombre robes, she stood with throbbing heart and tearful eyes beside the author of her being, in whose bosom the lamp of life was wan- ing fast, and might not be replenished. In a splendid apartment, in the lower part of the city, sat a young girl, whom my readers will recognize as the same I have described as the oc- cupant of one of the cabins of the good ship --. Ever and anon she rose and paced the room with clenched hands and lips painfully compressed; and then, sinking amid the velvet cushions of the lounge, her tiny hands clasped against her heart, as though to still its wildering tumult, she would burst into a passionate flood of tears'; and then *I!   162     C URREi  LYE. low, deep, heart-breaking sobs, alone broke the stillness of that apartment, where splendor and loveliness strove for the mastery. Suddenly she sprang from the lounge, and stood as in an attitude of listening. A footstep was faintly heard upon the stairs. Nearer it came-still nearer. The door softly opened, and Ethelbert Sley entered the room. With a low, suppressed cry of joy, she lay pant- ing like a frightened gazelle upon his bosom. An expression ofpity, rather than love, looked out from his eyes as he folded her to his heart; but she, poor untutored child, understood not the wide gulf that flows 'twixt compassion and love, and she -- was happier in her simplicity. !' You have been weeping," said Ethelbert; "this is unkind, Inez." "I dream of Italy," she murmured. "And do you, then, feel unhappy with me?" "Oh, no; not with you. Without you, yes- much unhappy. I am so strange here,. where no bright skies are; and when gone you are, no one love me." Thus, in her broken but musical language, she ran on until he stopped her with a kiss, and soothed her into quietude. Ethelbert had borne this young creature from her home in one of Italy's softest, greenest vales. /   CURRER LYE.        163  She was too unskilled in artful blandishments to hold a sway over the heart of a man whose imr- pulses were so corroded by worldly contact, and  like a child weary of a new toy, he longed to cast her off, while his false worship should be laid upon another shrine.  When daylight stood upon the eastern hills, Kate Lyle's dead father lay upon her. bosom, and     X Inez de Tresilli pillowed her bright head upon the  arm of Ethelbert Sley, while peaceful slumber  fanned her eyelids and sealed them in repose. Kate Lyle resumed her mourning robes, and silence brooded once again in those gorgeous  rooms, where but so lately the joyous laughter  and the song with strains of music floated out  upon the moonlit air. In due time the will was opened. With the       - exception of $50,000 apiece to Currer and her brother, Kate was possessor of all that vast wealth to which so many bowed; and Fashion, in her  mimic world, prepared to pay her court whenever     [ opportunity should present itself. Inez de Tresilli was but a Weak, yielding flower,  but the warm blood of her nature coursed freely  through her veins, and laved the fierce passions  that characterize the daughters of Italy. For Ethelbert she had forsaken her kindred and her native clime.   164     CURRER LYE. She asked not to be his wife, save in the name. With woman's trusting love she gave the un. bough tenderness of her young heart, nor asked a tie stronger than his affection. Almost a child in years, a kind smile from him was dearer far than all the jewels of earth's hidden caves. A stranger in a stranger's land, with none to cheer the drooping spirit, she pined like a wounded dove. Night after night Ethelbert was absent from her side, and now when he returned, and the traces of tears were on her heavy eyelids, he no longer soothed with words of tenderness, but the harsh rebuke trembled upon his lips. She pondered long upon his changed mein, and a light slowly dawned upon her shrouded fancies. "He loves another!" she said, and the madden- ing, burning flames of jealousy mounted higher, and still higher, till they were reflected in her large lustrous eyes, no longer liquid, but flashing with wakened ire. She wept no more. A sullen silence brooded o'er her, and she sprang no more to greet him when his familiar footstep fell upon her ear. He marked the change, but knew not the deep estrength of purpose that lay waiting to leap into   CURRER LYE.        165  life and being, to prove to him the bravery of woman. It was a cold, blustering night in midwinter.. The drifting snow fell in large flakes, carpeting  - the pavements with its soft, white mantle, and sending the poor shivering wretches to huddle over their scanty fires.  Lights gleamed from the windows of a splendid mansion, and the sweeping curtains drawn back, threw the bright beams out upon the crystaled sidewalk, that glittered like a sheet of opal. At a harp in the centre of the room sat a lady,  and as her hands swept over the chords, a manly. voice poured forth the impassioned strains of an Italian love-song.  Kate Lyle, entranced with the fervor of the  singer, dropped her hands listlessly in her lap, and gazed up into Ethelbert's face, her soul look- ing from her eyes. Emboldened by her glance, Ethelbert ceased his song, and bending over her, revealed his passion--  his cherished hope of one day calling her his. But he had counted without his host. Kate Lyle had passed the halcyon hours when love's young dream could fill her heart, and with woman's instincts, she had divined John Bradley's secret.  She respected the difidence which had so long kept  ori   166     CURRER LYE. him aloof, and concealed, as he fondly deemed, the passion he had nursed so long. She-felt that she might never offer man again the unsordid, self-forgetting love she had once be- stowed. She respected John Bradley, while Ethel. bert Sley dazzled her by his splendid exterior, but touched not one spring beneath her heart. She mildly rejected his proffered suit, and concealing his rage and mortification as best he could, he '::g sought his sister Marian. There was a watcher of this scene of whom he little dreamed. Close to the window there crouched the figure of a woman completely muffled in black, so that her features could not be discerned eyen in the bright light. Long she watched, and when he turned away she fled through the cold blasts of ,night, unheed- ing the white shroud that fell around her. Was it ominous? /a  2 W.,j &::Y   CURRER   LYE.      167 fi CHAPTER XXI. Inez de Tressili. ONWARD through the drifting snow the muffled  figure sped, as though the fierce winds had winged the fleet footsteps: still onwaid-unheeding the piercing cold, the slippery pavement, or the echo- ing shouts, of straggling parties of midnight re-  vellers as they broke the stillness with some  coarse bacchanal refrain-onward, far as the eye can reach, still its outlines, now fainter and  fainter, fades in the distance and is lost to our wondering gaze.  Folded in the bosom of night, there is another mystery whose workings may, perchance, never be revealed to the thirsting curiosity of the outer world. She has fled, that lonely watcher; fled  through the howling storm-where? Ask of the same echoes which gave back the sound of her light foot-falls, till they rested on the  river's brink. - Ask of the sullen river, ii its dark  t e   is      CURRER   LYE. wavelets mingle with the sunny tresses, and kiss the coral lips of Inez de Tressili. The stroke of midnight had died away as Ethel. :bert stood upon the steps of Kate Lyle's man- sion. Marian, too, was there, and the spots of purple were on .her cheeks, the snake-like gleam of her eye, and the same cold smile upon her lip. "Fear not; she must, she shall be yours," whis- pered she. Ethelbert silently grasped her hand, and seating himself in Kate Lyle's elegant carriage, was rapidly driven to his hotel. Once more he stood there in that elegant apart- ment; but where was the form of light and child- like loveliness, whose graceful motions had amused so many an idle hour? A pillow of azure silk lay upon the floor, and traces of tears it bore. A fillet of bright gold, that had twined in her sunny hair, was flung care- lessly down; the lute whose. chords so oft had mingled with the wild melody of her voice, lay now unstrung; the broidered vest and crimson scarf, fragments of her Italian costume, which he had lovred to see her wear, were scattered around; but she was gone, faded like a dying tone, lost in the windings of the great metropolis, or 'mid the countless treasures that gem the ocean floor; per- %'a - a-   CUJRRER  LYE.       1 9 chance she lies, where no gleam of sunlight ithat,  shimmers through the deep, to light her bed upon the crystal sand; shall-wake her to misery again. Kate Lyle brooded long and earnestly, after Ethelbert Sley's departure. She felt that a pro-  tector for her children would soon become abso-: lutely necessary.  Charlie Lyle already had evinced a haughty de-      i fiance of all control; and since the departure of Madge, refused to come into his mother's presence,  save once, when he monitored her upon her injus-  tice, with all the imperiousness she herself could  have displayed. Kate was fascinated with Ethelbert, but her- children shrank from him, and she shuddered at  the thought of continued domestic dissensions.  She remembered, too, one evening the children. had been sent for to the parlor; Ethelbert drew Charlie to him, and offering him a small coin of gold, said, "Keep this for a pocket-piece." Charlie looked at him for an instant, with flashing eye and    : curling lip; then flung the glittering token at his feet and left the room, holding Currer by the' hand. For John Bradley, Kate felt that respect which is-so nearly allied to stronger feelings, we might sometimes doubt if itwere not really love. Charlie  and Currer already looked upon him as a second    170      CURRER  LYE. father, and when the angry retort trembled upon Charlie's lip, one glance from the mild eyes of John Bradley sufficed to check it ere voice was found to utter it. Her father's death had increased her fortune so as to render her an object of cupidity, and she resolved never to become its victim. She knew, with John Bradley, her wealth weighed not a feather in the scale, and in. her heart her choice was already made. Marian read this in the unwonted cheerfulness that beamed in her untroubled countenance, and Marian smiled the old smile as she thought how a slight circumstance might work towards the de- struction of the fabric with which Kate had woven her hopes; and how,.upon its ruins, she should build her own and Ethelbert's future fortune.   CURRER LYE.        171  -- CHAPTER    XXII.  ALBERT JOANNES and Victorine Paterson were man and wife, and Albert tied his neck-cloth more  ferociously than ever; took longer strides as he walked to the store, assumed a lounging air of im-    i portance in the house, and by a thousand inde-  scribable acts of dignified assumption, wore he the magnitude of a married man.  John Bradley had, in the meantime, been in- veigled into the parlor on sundry occasions; and  every Sunday Mrs. Paterson went out, that John  and Miss Victorine might do their courting in the parlor. during her atsence, and that opportunities might not be wanting for John, in the plenitude of    j his bashfulness, to pop the question.  Our hero, in utter ignorance of- this. manoeuver-  ing on the part of the mamma, kept to his sanc-  tuary, and thought of the graceful condescension Kate Lyle, from time to time, was pleased to show him, and writing up- his journal, smoking his  meershaum, and in thinking of all he intended  s I   172     CURRER LYE. doing for Charlie, passed the day until it was time to visit her in the evening. I need not say that this seclusion of his was much to the satisfaction of the young married couple, who amused themselves in Miss Victorine's room, in their own way, quite regardless Qf the matrimonial speculation of Mrs. Paterson. They managed very cleverly, too; so cleverly, that the kind old lady, in the gratitude of her heart at the good-natured manner in which Albert viewed the loss of such a prize as "Victoree," con- fidentially asked him to give her away in church. Four months soon passed away, and the scrutin- izing eye of Mrs. P. was fastened upon John, now and then, with more of severity than had been her wont. Miss Victorine no longer took the end of the ta- ble, but kept her room, grew very pale, and Mrs. P. requested Albert to read to her and amuse her in the evenings; which he did, with his usual com- plaisance. Miss Victorine had strenuously refused to have a physician; but, unluckily, one afternoon she fainted, and the house was instantly in an uproar. John Bradley never closed his ears to the cries of a distressed female, and when the shriek of Mrs. Paterson rang through the house, he rushed from his room, quite forgetting that he stood in dishabille,   CURRER  LYE.      173 and with one side of his face lathered, just as he had been disturbed in the operation of shaving. "Oh, Mr. Bradley, my poor Victoree," said Mrs. P.; oh, do wait till I send for the doctor," and suiting the action to the word, Mrs. P. placed the still unconscious Victorine in our hero's arms, and rushed from the room. No sooner was he left alone than his horrifying position burst upon his bewildered brain; and there he stood, with burning blushes on his cheeks, and huge drops of perspiration on his'brow, hold- ing her out at arm's length, as though she had been a poisonous reptile; and thus they found him when the doctor entered with the half affrighted Mrs. Paterson. "Thank heaven!" ejaculated he, as he dropped the lovely burthen into the doctor's arms, and fran- tically rushed to his own apartment-locking, bolt- ing, and double-locking his door after him. The physician soon aroused Miss Victoree from her unconscious state, and looking at her for a mo- ment, turned and requested Mrs. P. to leave the room. After her departure, he asked the young lady some few questions, and left her to her own reflec- tions while he met her mother in the parlor. "Madam, is your daughter married?" Oh, no; not yet," said Mrs. P., in all innocence.   174      CURRER LYE. "Well, then, the sooner she is, the better for her reputation," said he, turning upon his heel. 'Stop!" shrieked the horror-stricken mother; "what do you mean?" Here a revelation was made, which it is not- ne- cessary for me to impart, .as it concerned no one but the immediate actors in it. Suffice it to say, that in an hour thereafter two policemen, were stationed in the back parlor, and Mr. John Bradley having been summoned to the parlor, there confronted the enraged Paterson; who, with arms a-kimbo, demanded what his in- tentions were in regard to her "Victoree." Our hero stood aghast-petrified with amaze- ment--and it was some time before he could mas- ter voice enough to reply that, 'eReally, he was not at all acquainted with the young lady, and had no intentions whatever."' And- scarcely had he uttered it, ere each of his shoulders winced under the rough grip of said policemen, who marched him to the station-houseQ, th ere to undergo an ex- amination on the charge of seduction. Mrs. Paterson followed in a carriage with his weeping victim; and the maid-of-all-work left her tub, and with the suds clinging. to her red arms, flew to inform her " chum," who happened to be the "chum" of Gubbins, who told her mistress; and the firm of Midge, Gubbins, and Pugsby were   C URR ER  LYE.      175 soon on their way to the police court, to gaze upon our crestfallen pattern of morality. 'The evidence there adduced all tended directly against him.        . Mrs. Paterson affirmed that for three months he had assiduously paid his addresses to her daughter; that she had never observed aught "out of the way;" never had she suspicioned anything till :Victoree took sick;" from that day he had "Iooked sheepish;" and the doctor- could prove her words, that she had caught him that very day in her daughter's room, with nothing on but his shirt and drawers.               ,  Midge said, " everybody knew him; for he was the deceivinest, seducinest wretch on the face of the airth." Gubbins sniffled out, "He albost broke by bissis's heart." ' And Pugsby, with a look of offended vir- tue, said, "He had a trial of it; but I was too sharp for him." With this load of testimony against him, the lit- tle pettifogger engaged by the enraged Mrs. Pater- son, prepared to launch upon his head the vials of his eloquent invective, and to make out a case. "Your honor,"' said he, placing his right hand upon the left side of his waistcoat, and waving the other at John Bradley, "' it has seldom been my painful duty to engage for the prosecution of an offence so   176      CURRER LYE, vile as this. You see before you here, in-this sa cred place-sanctified by the radiance of your re- fulgent intellect, your erudition, and your even- handed justice-a wretch who, like a hyena, wrig- gled into the sheep-fold, and masticated this pure lambkin; devouring her honor, and macerating her mother's tender hel 2 Here his feelings iovereame him, and he wept upon his shining coat-sleeve. "Yes, your honor," pursued he, "knawed asun- der the principles of witality, and devoured the heart-strings of fond affection that nuzzled in his bosom, and asked pertection." At this stage of the proceedings, while the sob- bing of the females, and the elevations of his voice rendered his discourse awfully affecting, Albert Joannes entered the court-room, with the same air of importance by no means modified; and laying his marriage certificate upon the, 4,sk, a reference to its date of four months previous, "vindicated at once the virtue of his wife, and the innocence of John Bradley, and his claim to the .lady and all that was and might be her's thereafter. The disappointed firm of Midge, Pugsby, and Gubbins sailed out of court; the grandiloquent pettifogger slunk away like a snail into its shell; John Bradley, in his delight at the unexpected happy termination of the affair, besought the dis,   CURRER LYE.        1" appointed mamma's forgiveness for the young couple. Albert Joannes, exalted at least three inches by his fatherly feelings, raised his eyebrows, passed his fingers round his shirt-collar, and handed his respected mamma-in-law and his now smiling wife, into the carriage, got in after them, and in a tone of authority, ordered the driver to " drive home." John Bradley went to dine with the Alderman, and then to his office, where he drew a check for three thousand dollars, to give the bride an outfit and settle her at housekeeping, enclosed it in an envelope, sent it to her with John Bradley's com- pliments and wishes for her future happiness, and from that moment foreswore all boarding-houses and lodgings to let, 8* ? i,   178       CURRER  LYE. CHAPTER    X'XIII. THE -city item column of a morning paper, on the following day, was garnished with an account of John Bradley's arrest, and the etceteras, as -far as the reporter knew; buts not having remained to witness the denouement, he  as in a state of bliss- ful -ignorance as to the guilt or innocence of the -accused party, and therefore wound up his highly colored, sketch of the affair by saying, "we shall look with some interest for the trial of this gay Lothario. Its proceedings till be faithfully chron- icled for the benefit of our readers, and there will be some rich developments made, or so we confi- dently expect." Another paragraph runs thus: "Just 'before going to. press, we learn' that the gallant gent (who,. report whispers, is about to enter the silken bonds of Hymen, and lead to the altar a certain wealthy and -beautiful widow), compromised his petit;affaire d'amour with a salvo ofthre ethousand dollars. This sum having been deemed sufficient   CURRER LYE.         179 to heal the lady's' wounded honor, and in con- sideration of which a -dashing clerk, il one of our city dry-goods establishmetnts, proposed off- hand, and the twain being united in wedlock, then and there, the case was dismissed to the mutual satisfaction of all parties concerned." Marian Sley had passed a sleepless night; scheme after scheme had sprang from her fertile brain to meet with rejection, chiefly that they were either too glaring or impracticable, and she arose dissatisfied with herself, feverish, and with more of the old gleam of malignity in her eyes than she had lately displayed. Descending to the breakfast-room, where the morning papers hung upon the- rack before the cheerful, glowing fire of anthracite, M arian buried herself (but not her ill-humot) in a large easy chair, adjusted her-pretty slippered feet upon the Bright fender, rang the bell for her coffee, and taking the newspaper, prepared to spend the hour preceding Kate's usual time for breakfasting, in scanning the on dits of the day. Scarcely had she glanced over the first page, ere the name of John Bradley riveted her atten-?  - tior; and fairly devouring every word of the li- bellous' article, flung the paper from her as she. conCtu!ed, anid between her firmly set teeth; mut- tered, :i Victory is mine I!  -.- I           .*       [   180     CURRER LYE. A few moments she sat, her brow contracted in -the lines of deep thought. Then calmly folding and replacing the paper on the rack, she retired to her own apartment, where, selecting a plain dress, travelling bonnet, and thick veil from her .wardrobe, she laid them ready for use; and in a few moments, found Kate at break- fast, with the same serenity of countenance, the same bland smile, and imprinted the usual warm kiss upon her lips, in token of her morning salu- tation. "Anything-new in the paper, Marian?" said Kate, as her delicate fingers touched the coffee- urn, and the fragrant Mocha flowed into the dain- tiest of service cups. "Indeed," replied that interesting compound of deceit, "I do not know; I have not looked at the papei for a week." The old servant, who stood behind Kate's chair, opened his eyes with a wondering stare, and stood in mute amazement, for he had seen her reading the paper, and observed her re-fold it and plae it where it then hung.  Yet this woman could meet his gaze with com- posure, and could lie unblushinzgly with innocence in her eyes. Kate took the still damp journal from the ser- vant's hand, and with fiendish exultafirn Marian   CURRER  LYE.       181 watched her as the deep crimson flush mantled her beautiful face, and receded, leaving her deadly pale. "Leave the room,' was the command given to the servant, with a voice choked with emotion. Scarce had the door closed upon him, ere fling- ing the paper to her friend, Kate rose and paced the room. "I'll not believe it," she exclaimed, passionate- ly; "it is a base fabrication to injure the best and purest of his sex. I'll not believe it." Marian, too, joined in vindication, but'she knew an oppos- ing influence was far-less likely to accomplish what she most desired, than a full and complete concession. I have observed that the mind of a woman (ex- cuse me, ladies, I should, I know, have saidfemale, to have thoroughly conciliated you, but my au-  thority being a scriptural one, I refer you to Gene- sis 21 and 23 : "She shall be' called woman," etc.) operates directly in favor of the oppressed party in a dispute, and in seeking an elucidation of the cause, I have satisfied myself thus: For every evil trait of character you censorious- ?: y. adduce, her quick perceptions instantly grasp a qounter balance of good with which to coUtle yoi while a perfect concurrence in her opinion directs her mind directly to the evil channel.   182      CURRER   LYE. This inherent love of argument in the sex has frequently been termed obstinacy ; but such a con- struction would only have been placed upon it by lordly man, in his illiberality. Marian waited until Kate had retired to her boudoir to' ruminate upon this strange report in reference to Bradley, and then donning plain at- tire, she started on her errand, which was to gather proofs. of the disgraceful 'part our hero had enacted in this infamous affair. Her hopes were more than realized; for arriv- ing at Mrs. Paterson's, she found that lady, with Gubbins,- Pugsby and Midge, in full conclave, and being readily admitted to their council, she listened to the inflammable Pugsby's recital of her wrongs, and. formed at once a plan. The story of the picture was told, and all the distressing circumstances connected with it; and when Miss Marian left the house, it was with a perfect understanding existing between herself  and the interesting trio. That afternoon, Kate Lyle was waited upon. by thr!, worthies, and great was her astonish- ment.   They all spake at once, and seemed as though Cl, had presented themselves with malice afore. thought, expressly to impair her sense of hearing. Pugsby, however, eventually obtained' the chair   CURRER LYE.        183 and commenced her oration, which was delivered most forcibly, and breathed in no very choice terms her sentiments as to what Kate Lyle deserved for "saich goin's on in a decent woman's house, with such a wile creetur as John Bradley." Midge said: "It was easy to, see she wasn't no better than she ought to be; " and Gubbins thought there was no doubt that "she was a willadous wixed." The three women, transformed into perfect furies by deep potations and their fancied wrongs, now showered their whole vocabulary of epithets upon the unoffending Kate, who, terror-striclien, shrank towards the door, while Pugsbyplanted her huge frame in front of her, and with arms akimbo, de- manded that she should give up John Bradley. The voice of thunder and the menacing gestures accompanying this imperative order, forced from Kate a loud shriek for help. The door opened, and John Bradley completed the tableau, for it was he who stood there, the per- sonification of horror, as at-a single glance the- po-  sition of things flashed upon his mind.  Kate, pale and trembling, turned, and with one glance of withering scorn, swept by him, saying, "I leave you, sir, to entertain your friends." ' After venting the remnant of her wrath upon   184      CURRER LYE. her helpless victim, Pugsby and her friends took their departure. For a moment, John Bradley stood irresolute. The first impulse was to send for Kate, and ex- plain, but a flush of pride mantled his fine, honest face, and taking his hat, he left the house. Des- tiny had sealed the doom of the queenly mistress of that proud mansion. She had cast the jewel, the'priceless jewel of an uncorrupted heart, pure in its truth and honesty of purpose, ruthlessly away from her, to cherish a gilded bauble.   CURRER LYE.        185 CHAPTER XXIV. THREE years have fleeted rapidly away. Kate Lyle is again a wife and mother. It is an evening in September. The heavy clouds gathering in the west, the distant rumbling of the thunder, and the lightning's fitful flashes, heralded the rapid approach of a storm. On the green bank surrounding a beautiful man- sion, which itself stands upon an eminence em- bowered in old trees, and commanding a prospect of New. York bay, stood a noble-looking youth of perhaps fifteen years, an4 a delicate, fragile girl. Her appearance did not indicate her age, for her height might belong to a child of twelve, but her face wore the careworn expression of twenty. She stood with their arms encircling each oth- er's waists, mutely gazing at the grandeur of the storm. The pattering of horses' hoofs were heard rapid- ly coming up the lawn towards the house, just as the large drops of rain began to fall, and Ethel- *      + k -S   186     CURRER LYE. bert Sley dashed up to the door, followed by Kate, looking, perhaps, a shade more thoughtful than when we saw her last. Charles Lyle stepped forward, and gracefully assisted his mother to dismount; and. as the ser- vant led away the spirited animal which she had been riding, Ethelbert leaped from his saddle, and flinging the light bridle to Charles with an air of imperious command to "hold the horse," was about entering the house, when he met the firm but respectful reply of Charles :Lyle, as he said, "No, Mr. Sley, I cannot hold your horse." "Take that bridle," thundered Ethelbert. "Never," -replied the boy, who now stood, his whole form dilated, his beautiful head and noble face uplifted, while the pride flashed forth from the dark eyes and curled the chiseled lip. "You will not?" "I will not." It was very fearful to look upon the two as they stood there, the slight boy in his attitude of stern defiance, his arms folded,-and the strong man, whose broad chest heaved with passion. Quick as thought he raised the whip which he still held, and blow after blow descended upon the slightly covered shoulders, but the boy moved not a mus- cle; the scorn mantled more deeply on the ruddy lip, but not a murmur escaped him ; still the heavy ^    CURRER  LYE.       187 blows descended, and the linen round-jacket was laced with stripes of crimson, telling how the deli- cate flesh beneath was lacerated, and still the boy stood erect, unmoved. A quick, low cry, and Currer Lyle fell upon her knees, and raised her hands in supplication to the tyrant who plied the cruel lash. One blow from Ethelbert sent her reeling, and but for a slight sapling which 'she grasped, she must have fallen from the bank. It had been better for Ethelbert had he left that blow unstruck. With the strength of desperation, Charles Lyle hurled himself, against him, and seized him by the throat. Losing his balance, Ethelbert sank upon one knee, while the horsewhip, wrested from his hand by the fearless stripling, now descended with light- ning-like rapidity upon his own shoulders. His chastisement inflicted, the youth flung the whip at his feet, and strode into the house. It was midnight. The rain still fell in torrents, and quiet reigned in the mansion where splendor sat enthroned, and laughed in hollow mockery at misery, as she crept into the hearts of the inmates. Stillness was there, but slumber fanned not with her gentle wings the weary eyelids of those who wore this gilded panoply of gilded grief. Marian   188      CURRER  LYE. Sley yearned for revenge, and tossed upon her pillow of down, impatient- for the dawn, that she might- wreak it. Kate wept in agony as she. reviewed the past, for retrospection held its bitter chalice to her lips, and memory bade her drain it to the dregs. Hark! the sliding of a bolt is heard, and now a faint gleam of light streams out upon the lawn; 'two figures emerge from the house, and a child bearing a lantern flies up one of the avenues. It is Currer Lyle; her white robe fluttering in the night wind, gives her the semblance of the an- gel of Death winging its way to seal the aching eye- lids, and bear away some weary spirit to the valley of the shadow of death. She is closely followed by Charles. And now be- fore the grey eye of morning peeps from these cloud-curtains of dusky night, look in upon a pic- ture with me. In the stable, at the end of the lawn, you will perceive a light. The door stands ajar, and the massive key is in the lock. In the middle of the stable stands a beautiful horse, and on one knee rests a noble-looking boy  fastening a saddle-girth, while a pale, tearful little girl holds a lantern, ever and anon whispering to the splendid animal as it paws the ground impa- tient of delay, and patting the curved neck with   CURRER LYE.        189 her tiny hand, says, "Poor Diamond, be quiet, Diamond," and Diamond's nostrils dilate, as he rubs his head against her shoulder. The last buckle is fastened, the youth springs to the saddle, the mettled steed flies up the long avenue, beneath the dripping branches, scarce con- scious of his burthen. Currer Lyle falls upon her knees, there on the wet grass, and with hands clasped and streaming eyes, she murmurs, "Protect him, oh Heavenly Father." The steed has gained the road, and Charles Lyle is out on the wide, wide world. John Bradley looks much the same as when he crossed the threshold of Kate Lyle's mansion three years previous, but the silver threads are more thickly strewn 'mid his curling locks, and they are now more white than iron-gray. He is stouter, too; but though the olden dream has faded like a fleeting vision, as it was, the eyes are the same, still looking out from the heavy brows and beaming with the light of benevolence, which from their clear depths lay like a floating sunbeam reflected upon his broad honest brow. He sits quietly there in his office, with the. earliest morning sunlight playing amid the heavy old volumes, and glancing in and out among the waves of his silvery hair, while the gentle breeze,   190     CURRER LYE. stealing in at the open door, lifts the perfume from, a dainty bouquet of flowers, that drank the fresh water from an oriental vase upon his desk. One glance reveals that taper fingers, tipped with rosy nails, have .arranged, and an exquisite taste blended the rich hues of the many-tinted gems of Flora, which compose that bouquet-and yet John Bradley is an old bachelor. Who can it be that places, each morning, this tribute upon the table of an old bachelor? A slight noise, and John Bradley's eye is lifted from the newspaper-involuntarily he starts from his seat, as it rests upon a tall, slender, elegant- looking boy, who, standing in the door, so much resembles Peirce Lyle as he knew him years agone -that a wild throbbing at the heart sends tears to the eyes of the strong man. Weep on, John Bradley! for the crystal drops now coursing each other down thy cheeks, are the gems which pave the bright courts of Paradise.  Charlie LyIe's story was soon told, and John Bradley felt a yearning desire to clasp the brave boy to his bosom, but checked the impulse, and with as cold and stern a look as it was possible for him to assume, advised him to return home and yield respectful obedience to his mother's chosen husband. "Never l" returned Charles:. "I would walk into my grave and be inearthed alive, ere I would   CURRER  LYE.       191 lay the shadow of my form upon that threshold. For my sister's sake, I have endured the weary bondage of that house-bent like a hireling slave beneath the galling yoke of his petty tyranny. John Bradley, you knew my father; you loved him." Here the boy's voice choked with emotion, but, dashing the bright drops from his eyes, he continued: "I charge you by his memory-guide, direct his orphan children. My sister-be to her as a father-remove her from the home where she has no kindred sympathy, and the iron rod of op- pression crushing her young life. Do it, or the flowers soon will spring from her bleeding, broken heart, to reproach you as they bloom upon her grave "  The following day John Bradley assumed the guardianship of Currer and Charles, at their own request, they having chosen him; but Currer, with all the clinging tenderness of her nature, yearned to remain at home, when -she saw the shadow which had settled upon the face of her mother; for child as she was, she knew full 'well it was re- flected from her heart. "Oh," sobbed she, "if mamma would but love me, and let me share her sorrows "A fierce look of bitterness swept over Charlie's fine face, as he drew her to his bosom. "My poor sister, " he said, " there are tiny hands to play 'mid the dark tresses on her brow, and   192      CURRER BYE. baby accents toe lisp her name, while the sunny little head of Ethelbert's boy will nestle near the heart that never throbbed for you-poor injured child!" At mention of the baby, Currer flew rather than ran up the broad stair-case to the nursery; flinging herself on her knees at the feet of her nurse, she clasped the child in her arms, and covered its lit- tle-face with kisses, weeping bitterly the while. As she stepped into the hall, Kate was passing the door. Her face was very pale, and traces of tears were on her cheeks. She glanced fearfully around, caught the grief- stricken girl in her arms, and folded her to her breast in one long, wild, passionate embrace. She turned and beheld Charles standing nigh. Some words .trembled on her lips, but sobs checked h6r utterance, and as she advanced to him a harsh voice said, "Come, madam, you have played tragedy enough for to-day; but as you are so loth to part, perhaps you had better go with them?                 .    -- Kate staggered away.; and Currer, half fainting, was borne by Charles to the carriage. It was the'first kind word her mother had ever spoken to her-but the flood-gates of maternal love had opened;for a moment had burst their bar riers, but to be frozen, sealed up forever.   CURRER LYE.        193 - -         '  X CHAPT'ER     XXV.            i Two months found the town house and country mansion both deserted.        : Ethelbert, Kate, and Marian were on the Conti-    I nent; Charhe was at college, Currer at a fashion-    C able boarding-school; and John Bradley, too, had     - made an important change in his domestic economy.  A  splendid villa on the banks of the Hudson,  three miles from New York, was purchased, and furnished with almost oriental splendor.  The fashionable circles were afforded a subject   : for gossip, and all agreed that John was to. be  married. "Who would have thought of such an old sober- sides ever displaying so much taste and liberality  in the appointments of his house?" said one. '     "I wonder who the fortunate lady is?." said another.  And great was the commotion in Grand Noodle-     dom. The marriageable ladies fluttered their fans,    194     CURBER LYE. the auctioneering mammas tossed their turbaned heads, and the gents agitated their scented cam- brics, while they discussed the interesting and ab- sorbing topic. Now there was pretty Mrs. Delamere knew all about it, for she had been consulted entirely, and to her taste was confided the selection of every- thing, from the rich carpets to the superb sets of  ortulu a;, and yet the provoking, teasing little wo- man would persist in holding her tongue. The ladies said it was "malicious," the young gents that. it was "cruel," and the older ones that it was "marvellous, quite a miracle;" but Mrs. De- lamere listened still, and said nothing; so that, whatever she-knew, they -cotild not hope to be en- lightened by her bestowing her confidence on them, nor were  they.' What did Mrs-Delamere know?   She knew ht;efour years' ago, on a cold, stormy winter's John Bradley had clasped in his strong arms -* ,  agile, form of a young and beautiful girl, who, 'with the bitterness of despair and blighted hopes, would have buried her shame and misery beneath the waves of tie dark river. He had bore her to a place of safetiyand sought counsel of Mrs. Dela- mere. She was no lounging Christian, who prayed from a gilded book, and looked from her velvet cush-   CURRER LYE.        19, ioned pew with disdain upon the humbler wor- shippers at the footstool of the lowly Jesus. If she visited,.the home of poverty, she asked not what church the sufferer belonged to, ere she stretched forth her hand to succor and relieve. She shrank not from the frail daughter of shame when she crossed her path; but in her heart she said, God help them, for their lot is hard 1"And when she heard the young girl's story, she gazed into the child-like face, and she said in her good. heart and true, "This is her first step in guilt; her remorse and penitence will be her penance. She is but a child; and if no hand is stretched out to draw her from the brink, she will sink into the dark gulf of shame. If I can save her I will 1" -: ---  Read this, oh woman--read and ponder on-:?it ere entrenching yourselves behind-the. purity of a marriage certificate; ye banish a frail sister, and cast her beyond the pale of society. .  Think how prone are we to err. We know.  - o what have been her wrongs, her trials, her" temp^ tations.. Hurl her not down the slippery steeps of black perdition: send not forth the irrevocable fiat that dooms her to enter deeper into the foul pollution; but lend her your hand, and give her your counsel; and when reclaimed she stands be- fore you, think what a glory it will be to know and feel that this brand, snatched from the fire, will L           * o.      q , S   g6     Qc-OURRER LYE. stand an embodied soul at the great tribunal; and there, upon the register of Heaven, will be in. scribed, in letters of everlasting light,- 'This is thy work." To have saved a soul, ask thyself if such a mis- - :nt would not be a glorious one. Mrs. Delamere offered this poor child an asylum iher house; spoke to her as a sister; guarded, perfected, and taught her to forget that she could sin or was disgraced. Her 'care:i was rewarded. She saw her in the * bright maturity of womanhood, with the stain x    .iShe:way froher hr heart, walking in the paths k   ' a-oe and viccttituide an ornament to society. ;lr  is el ekre:knew John Bradley had adopted :tahe ha'willed her his entire fortune, and  vt? She would preside as mistress over that sump- -?  is mansion, while his maiden sister would re- -side with them to silence the voice of calumny. ;:All this she knew, and had known, but spoke not of it. And was Inez de Tressilli happy? Woman may suffer and repent; but never, oh never, mayphe' forget that her purity has been sullied.  It should not be for the world to punish; for the memory of such a wrong-of such a sin-lies like a weight of bitter misery on the heart, and a whole   CURRER  LYE.       197 lifetime of repentance may never draw the veil of oblivion over the sad memory on which is inscribed JMagdalen.  Inez de Tressilli was young, rich, and beautiful. Fashion was patronizing, for her wealth was the open sesame to her exclusive circles, but Inez de- spised the fawning sycophants who thus conde-' scended to bow coldly at her shrine of loveliness.. They marvelled much at the strange, scornful; girl, and speculated upon her sudden appearance and mysterious-position in that princely mansion. That she was a foreigner, none could doubt ; but who was she, and whence did she come? were ques- tions not so readily answered.  At length it was whispered among the yeo;  . yng dissipated fortune-hunters, that she was an It-liaT i  of noble birth; that her father was the Count de : Caruelli, she an only child, and bequeathed to the guardianship of John Bradley, owing to the Count's impoverished estates; but most pleasing was the  intelligence that she would be John -Bradley's heiress. This delicious tit-bit was not long in finding gos- sip to disseminate it, and all doubts as to her pedi- gree, which before had seemed questionable, were cast aside. Cards, notes, invitations, were showered upon her. Grand Noodledom was in a ferment, and each   198     CURRER   LYE. strove in a complete rivalship to have the honor of first presenting her. The patronizing air had vanished like mist be- fore the sunbeams; but the same impenetrable hauteur,the same scornful mien, wrapped her like an icy mantle, and she heeded not their studied homage. "There, where the blue waves of the broad Hud- son mirrored in its pure surface the majestic moun- tains, and kissed the rugged rocks as though to win the sternness from them, she wandered through the deep woods, whose solitude was the holy com- munimonwith nature; and there, with none to gaze upon her but the All-seeing One, she gave voice ;-to i:th: yagony which, like a rooted canker, con- um - issued, day after day, her young heart. -  When the dew-drops lay on every trembling blade, ere the sun rose above the tall mountain- tops, to kiss them with his burning lips, the car- riage was at the door, and she, with her beautiful little basket of rice-straw, filled with fragrant blos- soms fresh culled by her dainty hand, was whirled rapidly to town, arranging a bouquet as she went. -Ai And when- the carriage stopped before a dingy office in Wall-street, she would spring lightly out, and, opening the door with a latch-key, place her flowers in a vase. arrange the books, dust the desk with her delicate cambric; and then, as she saw ?  . :: , . .   CUR-RER LYE.        199 how soiled and darkened it was by contact with those old ledgers, she would blush to think how silly she was. John Bradley was not long in tracing the mys- terious fairy who placed each morning these floral tributes there upon his desk, where there had been nothing bright since Kate Lyle's visionhad faded  but he never spoke of it to Inez. If any one remarked it there--which many did, for it was an unusual sight in that dark little place -he would blush, look confused, and change the topic if possible; but if bantered, he seized his hat and rushed from his office; nor did he return till his tormentor had vanished. 'Many a dish of wild strawherries were gathered by the same dainty fingers, and many a little re-  past was set at the calm hour, just before twilight, in the grove near the house-much to the aston- ishment of John Bradley's matter-of-fact sister, who could not imagine why people should " eat out of doors, with the bugs crawling over them, and git full o' ticks." But John liked these little attentions of Inez, andi did not miss the wrinkled face of sister Tibbie:; for Inez laughingly would insist upon waiting be- hind his chair, and in dipping water from the cool rivulet near the hill, presenting it with a demure courtesy, and calling herself his Hebe.   200      CURRER LYE. John Bradley never saw a cloud upon that fair your face. He remembered not that ever one had ated over her sky of happiness. He only knew that the desolate chambers of his heart were filled and gladdened with her sweet voice; that the fountains of affection, which' for years had yearned to love something, and find that love re- turned: he only felt that she was necessary to his happiness. The hope, so long darkened, burned bright once more; that no unhallowed thought, no less holy feeling than "she is my daughter," ever entered his pure heart. :Inez knew this, but hers was a sorrow too deep for words-for voice; a great sorrow, sapping the sources of her life; but she clasped it to her; she 't- felt her transgression, and crushed it down into the very depths of her being, to purify her spirit. She knew and felt what others never thought of; that for he' there was no future on, earth! Mrs. Delamere was not long in observing the listless air and palin'g cheek of Inez, nor long in forming the somewhat just conclusion, that excite- ment would be'a better prescription than any dis- ciple of Escaulapius could give her. ' John Bradley,".said she, one afternoon bound- ing into his office without the least ceremony, "you are a great stupid goose!" John sprang from his seat, in his confusion, up-   CURRER LYE.       201 setting the inkstand and overturning the chair, and blushing as red as a fresh cut peony, looked ex- cessively silly, and then stammered out -"(I know it." As soon as the little lady could recover from her hearty fit of laughter, she resumed-- "I have been to your seraglio to day." Another blush greeted this playful sally, but this time honest indignation sent it to his brow; for even from Mrs. Delamere he could not endure such an insinuation. "What do you mean, madam?" was the query rather coldly put; but the " teasing witch," as he6 husband called her, only laughed the more. "Come, Mr. Grand Turk, your virtuous indig- nation shall not prevent me speaking my mind. "There is poor Inez, cooped up in your elegant establishment, with your humdrum sister Tibbie, who don't care for anything except knitting new toes into your enormous grey yarn stockings, and you haven't sense enough to see that she is grow- ing pale and thin. Why, you are as blind as a bat!" "I'm sure I thought-I didn't thin-hat is- I " "You thought, and you didn't think! There is a bull for you," said she, playfully clapping her hand over his mouth. 9*   202     CURRER LYE. "Oh, you dear, kind-hearted soull if I could only tell you how I love you for all you've done for that sweet girl; but now, you need not think any more, I'll think for you. But, in the first place, I must have a carte blanche upon your bank- ers: for I am determined Inez shall be the reign- ing belle of the season, and la premier pas is a visit to every fashionable gew-gaw repository in the city. Have I your consent?" "I'm sure," eagerly replied he, "anything to make her happy. I didn't imagine for a moment; she never asked." "Oh, of course she never asked-and who would ever suspect you of imagining?" At this moment, the gentleman whom they called poor Delamere entered, having met his wife there by appointment, to claim her promise, "That if he was a very good monster all day, he should ride home in her carriage." "You are just in time, Arthur; help me to kid- nap this bundle of generosity, and we'll bear him off to tea with us in triumph. Aunt Tibbie won't miss you." "But, Inez?" "No excuses-go you must, and shall." As they neared the house, Arthur Delamere saw by the roguish twinkle of her eyes, that Lily had prepared a surprise of some kind: and when John Bradley and himself had arranged their   CURR R   LYE.      203 toilets and descended to the parlors, great was their astonishment to find them as " dark as Ere- bus," to use Arthur's expression. They forthwith sallied up to Lily's boudoir; but, flinging wide the door, darkness supreme reigned there also. Now, really wondering what it could mean, they stood to listen for Lily's voice, but all was silent- when, as if by magic, the room was flooded with light from the gas-burners, and a loud mocking laugh rang out like music. There, cosily sitting by the little work-table, was aunt Tibbie, with "that everlasting yarn stock- ing." Lily sat close to her. Inez de Tressili, with her head in Lily's lap, looked up archly; and ' mammy," with her "bressed" boy poised upon her left shoulder, stood by the mantel, with the taper in her hand, showing both rows of ivories, a fine illustration of darkness made visible. You might have looked many a mile ere you could have found a happier party than re-assembled in Lily's costly boudoir after tea on that evening. Aunt Tibbie, so contented in the mysteries of seam and turn; and Inez listening to the plans of Lily for the season in which she was to figure as the belle; John Bradley and Arthur, talking wisely of the rise and fall of stocks; until Lily, putting her boy in his lap, cried out, "Why don't you get mar- ried?"John blushed.   204     CURRER LYE. CHAPTER XXVI. CURRER LYE was at a " boarding-school"-a "fashionable boarding-schoolP'-but this term has two distinct meanings; one real, one artificial meaning, which conveys an idea to parents and guardians. It is with the real I have to do. A fashionable boarding-school is a place where children are taught to cast aside the simple fresh- ness of youth, and be women before they have en- tered their teens. Where they garble French be- fore they thoroughly understand plain English. Where they are taught to fall prostrate and lick the dust from the portals 'of Mammon's temple; to dance well, sing well, dress well, play well, and to despise every useful occqpation, and sometimes the " old fashioned'ways of mamma." Where they spend half the term in conning les- sons in chemistry and philosophy, and the other half in crowding their brains with showy, superfi- cial studies, to make a grand display on "corn   CURRER  LYE.       205 mencemeat," for the future benefit of the teacher. Where everything like genuine feeling is voted vulgar, and mawkish sensibility encouraged in its stead. Where to have a heart- would be a mock- ery, save as the recognized receptacle of certain blood-vessels; and where unnatural restraint en- genders deceit, by repelling confidence. I am speaking now, not with a hope of regene- rating this false system of education, but'as a duty I owe to every Christian mother, I give this warn- ing; that the pure, simple child, who goes forth from your roof to find a home in a fashionable boarding-school, returns to you beggared in gen- erous impulses, with no sympathies as a daughter, and no conception of her duty as a wife and mother, beyond the splendor of her trousseau, the Mclat of her wedding, the value of her wedding-gifts, and the number of her bride's-maids. Currer Lyle shrank from strangers; her life had been embittered by coldness and restraint, until she could not endure the presence of any one save her brother. Upon entering the establishment of the Misses Spencer, she found that her comfort had been scru- pulously studied. Charlie Lyle had imparted to his guardian, the fact of her extreme sensitiveness, and in contract- ing for her he had mentioned that expense was no   206      CURRER LYE. object, if her comfort were -secured; 'that she was an heiress, and desired -only to perfect herself in some few branches, as her father had commenced her education, and she had pursued her studies since his death, and that the restraint of the school- room was neither desired 'or necessary in her case. Miss Ellen-who, being the eldest, controlled the establishment-after reminding John Bradley of the disaffection which such a course might engen- der among her pupils, consented to receive the new scholar, provided double the usual amount per year was allowed for the extra inconvenience. When Currer Lyle was shown to the apartment alloted to her, one glance sufficed to convince her that her brother had superintended the -arrange- ment of it.  The white dimity curtains fell in soft snowy folds from the windows, and the bed, with its white counterpane, was partially concealed by a light drapery of lace. ' The slight French chairs were arranged, not stiffly, with their backs against the wall, but in the most conversational manner possible. Her toilet articles, and every cherished little memento, had been   transferred from  her own room at homfe, and arranged just as she liked them best here in her new abode. Everything looked so home-like and familiar l   CURRER LYE..      207 But at that mnoment the realization of her isolated condition swept across her more fully than ever it had done before. She closed her eyes, and, press- ing her hands upon her temples, strove to shut out the gloomy sense, but it was in vain. Once more she retraced the past from her early childhood-once more she watched the dawning of that fearful day. Again she saw them  bearing in her father's bleeding corse-once more she stood beside him, shrouded for the grave!  Again she heard the wail of poor Madge. And then came another memory of a brighter scene; where lights were glancing, bright eyes were flashing, music floating, and gay forms glided through the mazy dance. The clergyman, too, was there; who, three short years before, had stood beside her as they laid her father in the grave; but now he came to unite her mother to one whom she was henceforth to call father. All this came distinctly to- her mind as she sat there-all this and more. She could not weep or pray. She sat there, straining her eyes far away, into the past, hearing nothing, feeling nothing, but that she was alone/  Companionship she found none, among the   208      CURRER  LYE. showy) frivolous girls, who soon discovered that she sedulously avoided them; and this was the signal for commencing a system of open persecu- tion. All that she saw -but served to increase her dis- trust of the world, and she longed to sleep the deep, dreamless slumber, which knows no awaken- ing save beyond the valley's gloom. Her teachers soon discovered that her every ac- tion was governed by strict sense of duty and conscientiousness. This won their respect. But she absolutely re- pelled every effort to. draw her into any conversa- tion, save that which absolutely referred to her lessons or her duties. They never loved her. The, afternoons 'were devoted to the, various branches of light ornamental needlework, so much in vogue in fashionable establishments, and each young lady in her turn devoted an afternoon to reading, for the entertainment of the others. At length it was Currer's turn to take her seat at the reading desk. The book she selected was "Francesca di Rimini.' Currer commenced in somewhat tremulous tones, but gradually-as she herself became interested- her voice, naturally sweet, swelled out clear and distinct.   CURRER   LYE.       209 All eyes were riveted upon her, as unconspious- ly she sat with the glow of enthusiasm flushing her pale cheeks, her whole frame dilated, whilst scarce aware that she was reading aloud. She poured forth the impassioned language, the embodiment of soul, which, glowing in the page before her, stirred the depths of her young spirit. Her style was so marked, so original, so differ- ent from the sing-song manner in which they had been drilled, that when the hour for closing the book arrived, bead purses, raised work, ottoman covers, tidies and samplers, had not progressed much-and there was a general search for lost worsted, needles, skeins of silk, and numerous other little articles which had been dropped by the owners while listening to "Francesca di Rim- ini." Returning to her room, Currer seated herself by the window, and fell into a reverie, from which, however, she was aroused by voices and an ar- gument, in which her name bore a conspicuous part.  '"I never heard such reading in my life!" said Myrtilla Herbert, a tall, classic beauty, as she stood the centre of a group of young ladies. "Oh, yes, she reads-well, and she knows it well enough, too. Her self-importance is the most ab- surd thing I ever saw," said Ellen Forbes, a showi-   210      CURRER  LYE. ly dressed, bold looking girl, evidently "parvenu." "Ithink you mistake, Ellen, for I watched her very closely, and I do not think she herself was at all aware of any peculiarity or excellence in her reading." This was said quietly by a pale, gentle looking girl, who did not seem to imagine that any impor- tance would be attached to her opinion, but spoke more from natural impulse of defending the absent. "Who asked you about it?". retorted Ellen. "For my part, she reminded me of some stage- struck miss, with her theatrical airs." Myrtilla turned quickly. "I have been think- ing where I have seen such a manner and such a face, and 'I remember now it was in Italy, two years since, We went one night to the La Scala, and heard the "Somnarnbula." Papa called my attention to the Amina, and she was very much like Miss Lyle. Papa heard, just before we left, that she was dead; and an old physician, who had attended her, said the mind had worn out the body, as a diamond wears the setting. Miss Lyle would make an actress." The party now moved off, and strolled 'through the gardens, while Currer meditated upon their animadversions long and earnestly. Unconsciously she found herself repeating, Miss Lyle would make an actress.   CURRER LYE.,       2" How strangely a light word carelessly spoken, oftentimes like a seedling dropped upon the parched earth, takes root within the mind, and becomes an embodied thought, taking shape and form from time and place, till, in after years, the breath of circumstance fanning the buds, will force them to bloom in the fulness of fruition, and then we feel that trifles bear upon our destiny. "Mss Lyle would make an actress," was but a little sen- tence; but six simple words, forgotten by Myr- tilla as soon as spoken; but they floated upon the evening air up into that little' room, and- nestled down into the heart of Currer Lyle, who, pressing her thin hands over her burning eyes, looked into the vast future-wondering if she would, indeed, "make an actress." ca    212      CURRER LYE. EHA PTE    XXVII. CHARLES LYE had finished his collegiate course, and was rapidly rising in his profession as a law- yer. A more elegant and accomplished man and scholar you could not have met than Charles Lyle at twenty-one. With the graceful dignity of his father was blended the imperiousness of his mother; but softened by a gentle deference, that made him at once the light of every circle. Inez de Tressilli had been worshipped, flattered, and admired by every parasite of society. Men, whose families could boast of noble old an- cestral lineage, had offered their aristocratic pedi- grees and empty protestations-to say nothing of purses in the same predicament--for her to wear as ornaments to her peerless diadem of beauty. Others, in the full sincerity of soul, cast hearts, A pure and true, at her feet. She trampled not upon those flowers of affection, but one and all felt, as they looked in her large,   CURRER LYE.        213 soul-lit eyes, that their answer was written in their liquid depths, and they stood afar and worshipped her; for Inez had no love to offer in return, and hers was an unsordid nature, believing only in that unalloyed and holy passion that no rude con- tact with the world could wither in the blight of desolation-the entwining of one existence so closely with another, that no link in the chain of thought could be defective, or aught of distrust corrode its brightness; an affection as this she knew she could not offer those who sought her hand. Yet Inez loved-madly, wildly, passionately- with all the fervor of her Italian clime.  She strove to tear asunder the bonds that bound her to one, whom she knew it were worse than madness to harbor one thought of; yet her shrink- ing spirit clung to the delusion, all guilty though it was; and it seemed that the evil genius of a stormy fate had marked Inez de Tressilli for its victim. She loved, yet deemed the passion she cherished a hopeless one.   . Oh  how her heart throbbed in wild exultation when she found that love returned, with all the ardor of a nature in whose fertile soil the flower now .@: bloomed for the first time; and oh the sweet de-   214     CURRER LYE. liciousness of those tones that breathed upon her listening. ear the adoration of Charles Lyle. She knew not at that moment how heavy, dark, and turbid the waters-of recollection should sweep across her now bewildered senses, as she drank in the realization that all might be as she had prayed so wildly that it might. Charles Lyle caught her'to his bosom, and pressed his lips:o her brow, as he read in her downcast eyes and tIuirng cheek, the confirmation of his hopes; but asihe did so, that kiss -recalled her to the memory of what she was, and, freeing herself from him, she hurried from the room. To realize that all she once had suffered came not within the scope of misery, in comparison with this last great-agony of soul; to know herself beloved by him for - whom she would freely give her heart's blood, yet feel that between them rose' ,? a barrier no human power might cast down, or yet o'erleap. True, he knew not of the past; that lay buried in the hearts-of those who never would diyulge; but she put the unholy thought away from her, and would ndt listen to. the tempter's voice that : :i 'pered, i)-jand be happy; the world knows  Dnot of-your t;raokression."  "^ tL length she grew. more calm,:and ":asl ays passed on, the dangerous happiness of being hear   , CURRER LYE.        215 him, hearing his voice, of .knowing his. every thought was hers, became a balm so soothing to the wounded spirit, she dared to think perchance he might not visit the sin of youthful inexperience so sternly as to cast her off forever. One evening she had been the admiration of all, at a brilliant fete given by Mrs. Delamere, and feel- ing a yearning desire to escape from the ,brilliant throng, whose mirthful voices fell painfully upon her ear, she passed out and stood c:toter'race that overlooked the garden. She had beenn there but a few moments, when she heard vbices-faint at first, but growing more distinct as the speakers turned one of the windingpaths, and paused directly un- der the balcony, where they continued their con, versation.      -  Inez would have escaped, but as she endeavored to do so, she observed that a group had assembled around a harp, and, were soliciting a song from a young lady. She remained, therefore, an unwil- ling listener, The story related by one of the party, touched upon a young girl of rank and fortune, who' 'was betrothed to a young poet. The day for their wed- . ding was fixed, when a strange tal:o disgrae ' and shame, that had long been hushed in silence , throu-gh ,ethe agency of gold, was again bruited" abroad.   -216     CURRER LYE. The affianced, husband demanded from the father an explanation. His confused denial and prevarication con'firmed his half-formed suspicions, and he sought the young girl's presence, to confront her with an accusation of her guilt. She spoke not, but sat like a statue hewn from the solid marble. She shed no tear when- she knew that bhe was lost to her forever, -but made instant preparations to enter, a convent. Scarce had she found a refuge within its conse- crated walls, ere her lover, .moved by her self- sacrificing penitence, sought to wed her despite the stain upon her name. Now it was the true nobility of her woman's soul shone forth in all its glory. She granted an interview; but neither prayers or entreaties could induce her to-forego her inten- tion to become a sister of the Cross, and in tears to expiate her crime, till repentance had won for her the forgiveness of Heaven. Her resolve only heightened his desire to make her his wife; but calmly she told him, it might never be--besought him to think of her no more, XI  but go out into the garden of the world, and gather ' ' J-s6ome purer"blossom to bloom in the full fruition of 'is los P. Soon After she took the black veil, and as sister Agatha stood like a ministering angel at the bed-   C URR ER  LYE.      217 side of her lover, as he slowly sank beneath'a ma- lignant fever. Her hand it was that closed the sightless eyes, and when she folded the hands over the cerements of the grave, she knelt down and prayed--took one long, lingering look, as though to fix each separate feature indelibly upon her memory's brighter page, and then passed on her way, to smooth the pillow and bathe the fevered brow of some other suffering one. "A glorious creature," said one of the gentle- men.,. "What do you think, Charles?" It was quite a'moment before he replied. To Inez, who stood with her hands pressed close against her bosom, it seemed an eternity of agony; and when at length he spoke, her heart seemed beating a death-knell-clear, loud, and fearfully distinct. "Were I standing at the altary and such a shad- ow of suspicion, how vague soe'ey, flitted across my mind, I would spurn her from me-tear forth her image from my heart, and if need be, my heart itself, and trample it, all bleeding, beneath my feet. I would sooner fold to my bosom a reptile, crawl- ing -from the poisonous slime of some stagnant, :';:, foetid pool, than a woman upon whose lips had   i burned the kisses of an unholy love." ^.' -: They moved away, and Inez sat with the words ringing in her ears, as though close to her the   218     CURRER LYE. night-wind whispered it through the stirring vines to some fiend, who hissed it out again to her in mocking accents, iand'laughed in derision as she writhed beneath the agony it inflicted. She pressed her hands upon her throbbing brow and strove to calm herself, for she knew the trial was not over yet-she knew with these fearful words burning into her brain she yet must meet him there amid the throng, that she must crush back all this, and wreathe her lip with a smile- that she must not go mad' there, and she prayed for strength--for respite only for a few short hours. None dreamed who saw her the next few hours that she had bid farewell to hope, that shame burned into her brain in letters of living fire its guilty brand-that she loathed the world, life itself, everything, and that -the future lay before her a dark, dismral, blank, surrounding her with impenetrable space from which there was -no escape, no refuge. Inez de Tressilli came forth upon the morrow-- none knew the fearful, terrible, indescribable agony Y of-those hours spent there alone in the darkness X   of her own room; but there lay upon her brow a shadow sh dark, and a strange, quiet resignation, so evidently assumed, that none could look upon ? ;             -          *   CURRER LYE.       219 her nor read that there was some great desolating woe nursed in the secret recesses of her soul. She returned no more to her home upon the Hudson-every entreaty of Mrs. Delamere's failed to draw from her the cause of her strangely altered manner, and one morning she was missing. A letter left for Charles Lyle afforded no clue to her whereabouts; it ran thus, as near as possible; but in many places it seemed as though the hand had faltered, and a faint line was the only trace of the word she would have written, but it spoke more eloquently than words could have done. CHARLES -- "Oh! that I dare call you mine, or use a term of endearment, how slight soe'er. "Do not curse me when you have read this-as one who has cast a desolation upon your young life, and destroyed your peace forever. Oh, could you look upon her who now traces these lines to you, and in so doing parts with -the cherished idol so wildly worshipped, and bids farewell to happi- ness, joy, and all things that make life a desire, you would pity, not condemn.  "And now, while I have strength, let me be brief. "I am a guilty wretch, unworthy to bear your name.   ,    220      CURRER LYE. "Why I why did we meet, when such a barrier frowned darkly down, forbidding me to love; and I, vain, weak, guilty, if you will, madly dreamed of pardon on earth, ere I had won it from a- higher tribunal. "Farewell; though now we part, the memory of the few happy hours spent near you, will be brighter to me than all the manny stars in the clear heaven above. "And. by the. purity of my undying adoration for you, whose image is blended with every fibre of my being, the unstained records of my future life illuminated by such a light, shall cast its irradiate lustre over the darker .remembrances of the past, and atone for all its guilt. i EfFtace me from your memory, and let no linger- ing affection for one so unworthy, ever cast a shadow to mar its bright pages, but spurn not the prayers that will ever be mine, that the guardian angels of peace, health, and sweet prosperity, may hover ever near thee; and virtue, truth, and love, trio-twined in the brights halo of immortality, dwell ever in your bosom. "May your life glide on as softly as the rippling of some tiny streamlet over its crystal bed, and when its gentle waves shall reach the ocean that rolls on and, on to the heaven of eternal rest, may thy soul catch the liquid phosphor from each   CURRER LYE.        221 . crested wave and with the glorious diadem of re- ligion's radiant light encircling thy brow, may you dwell in the courts of Heaven, "is the prayer of "the heart-broken, "NEZ DI TRESSILLI. .f .   222      CUARER LYE. CHAPTER XXVIII. I AM aware, that in many instances, novels of the present day embody the school experience of the heroine as an essential feature contributing to the development of character. As my experience inclines me to believe that th'e mind is not fully formed, much less developed, at that age, and as these descriptions are mostly stereotyped in their nature, I must depart from the general taste, whether good or bad, and trusting to the good nature of my readers, pass over the school days of Currer Lyle, with the remark, that the independence of her character, so strongly marked in early years, was still maintained despite of every effort to crush it beneath the restraint and discipline of what, properly named, would be misrule. The prompt payment of their somewhat ex- travagant bills, and the reserved quietude of her manner, rendered her an object of respect as far as the teachers themselves were concerned;' and ^  -   CURRER LYE.        228 the petty annoyances of fellow schoolmates, whose brains weighed less than their purses-she repudi- ated as unworthy of her notice, and returned many an act of generous kindness for theirs of persecu- tion. Some time after she entered the establishment of the Misses Spencer, her still delicate health rendered exercise in the open air essential, and a beautiful horse, a birth-day gift from John Brad- ley, was the source of many an hour's-unalloyed happiness, as cantering over hill and dale he bore her light form many a mile from the chilling and depressing influence of her home-prison, as she was wont to call the school. One evening, as she was turning out of a piece of woodland that skirted a lane leading into the main road, a group of sorrowing children, standing at the open door of a neat but humble cottage, attracted her attention. She reined up and asked the cause of their grief. Theirs was a sorrow too deep for voice, and. the silent appealing look from the soft gray eyes of the eldest--a girl of fifteen, as she pointed to the open door-was conviction enough. She-dismounted and entered the house. On a bed, in one corner of the room, lay a pale, emaciated woman, evidently the mother of the riburning little ones.   22      CURRER LYE. The death-damps lay heavy on her brow, but a smile of holy resignation lit the pallid features, and'cast over them a halo of loveliness. The labored respiration told how, fast life was ebbing away, and how much need there was for consolation. 'It was not absent from. the humble roof, for by the bedside sat a youth, whose face wore an ex- pression of deep and heartfelt sympathy, and as he held the slight wrist While he counted the feeble pulsations, he glanced ever and anon from the weeping children to the face of Currer, who had now taken the youngest child and soothed it into a gentle slumber, while she consoled the others with the assurance they should meet their mother in a better world. At a gesture from the dying woman, she placed the child upon her bosom, and opening the sacred volume, read in a low, clear, and distinct voice, replete with feeling, the wor s of the living God that guide to the waters of everlasting life, where the wearfTfaint not on the bank, but drink and rest forever.  Arthur Edgerton raised the children one by one to take a last farewell, and as the spirit fled, he gave his place to Currer, who smoothed the damp locks bak from the cold brow, closed the eyes whence the light of love had gone out forever, and   CURRER LYE.        225 then knelt beside the still form to pray for the helpless little ones whom death had robbed of a mother's guidance-of a mother's counsel. Some neighbors now came in, and with a promise to return early in the morning, Currer gathered the folds of her habit around her slight form, and stood upon the threshold. The brightness of a young August moon fell upon the holy quiet of her young face, as with Arthur Edgerton's assistance, she sprang lightly to the saddle. "Have you far to ride?" said he, as he adjusted her dress. "Eight miles," she replied, "to the seminary of the Misses Spencer." "I must pass it on my way home," was the re- joinder, "with your permission, I will ride with you." A slight bend of the head in token of ac- quiescence, and together they left the door. "As we are to be companions, for an hour at least, I must inform you that my name is Arthur Edgerton; if I mistake not I am speaking to Miss Lyle." "You are," was the reply. "Indeed, I was almost confident of it the mo- ment I saw you. My mother so often mentions you, that I almost feel as though we were old acquaintances, despite our casual meeting." 10   226      CURRER  LYE. "Your mothei" said Currer, while a melancholy shade passed over her itures, "is the only friend I ever knew; indeed, -in'her I have'realized the dream lfine- had of a mother's affection." "Your mother, then, died while you were young?" "To me, yes." The tone in which this was utteired, seemed to demand a change in the current of the- conversation, and from that moment a deep interest was awakened in Arthur's bosom for the young girl whose acquaintance had been so strangely formed. They rode on, conversing upon the sad scene they. had witnessed, and when they reached the seminary, each believed that in the other's bosom dwelt the congenial spirit which, commingled, should constitute a life of happiness. They parted there in the silence, unbroken save by the whip-poor-will's mournful cadence, or the soft stirring of the summer breeze amid the leaflets. No voice was 'heard, no syllable uttered, no word was spoken, but the slight pressure of the hand he for a moment held, and only for a mo- ment, breathed a volume of heartlore, written not upon the surface of the outer life, but inscribed upon the inner being; an existence impalpable and rounded by a dream. Currer Lyle had little of romance in her nature;   CURR-ER   LYE.      227 -  her experiences, even at her early age, had taught her that life had stern realities; that it was earnest and filled with trials.  Ideality was sufficiently blended with her views of life, to robe them in a tissue that veiled the grosser attributes of humanity, but love- is a cottage without effects, and dying of starvation with the man of her choice, never entered her mind.  Arthur Edgerton was. a young physician whose income, as yet, scarce sufficed for the comfortable support of himself and widowed mother. If the thoughts of taking to himself a partner for life, had ever found a resting-place in his mind, it was quickly banished, as his poverty rose like a cloud before him to warn him of sunnier hopes. Often in his errands 'of mercy had he. heard the name of COrrer Lyle, coupled with pious invoca- tions for her welfare, as they fell from the lips of many a sufferer, whose pillow she had smoothed, or her bounty had relieved. Now they had met. He had watched her in her earnest piety,so simply displayed, and knew it was the heart's deep sympathy had prompted the as- sistance she had given; for a quiet, unostentatious manner marked her every movement, and left no room for doubt. They met often in their evening rides, and soon did each realize that the moments spent in pleasant    if'    , v  ' .   ' CU RREB  LYE.. - - 1,:t    converse: nethem- s pespreading oak, or'on  grea:'   some little stream, whose ripples chasing each- other, now in the light and now in the de, found a musical accompaniment to translate the poetry of-their-hearts, were the happiest of their existences.  The restraint imposed upon her at school made her desirous of seeking- another home, and hei wishes were at once made known to John Bradley. Her communication-was made just at the time when he was absorbed in grief and anxiety, as to the fate of Inez de Tresilli, and was speedily arranging his affairs, preparatory to -a journey in search of the unfortunate girl, in whose welfare he took so deep an interest. Mrs. Delamere's counsel was invoked, and his suggestion that his ward should accompany him to the continent, where he felt assured that Inez had sought refuge, met with that lady's decided disap- proval. The request that she. should enter the fashiona- ble world under her auspices, was refused.. ' Your ward," said she, "has a mother occupy- ing the same position in society as myself, and to her belongs the right of presenting her daughter to that circle of which she will be a bright orna- ment. Any departure from such a conventional rule would but make her the subject of ill-natured remark.     CHAPTER    XXIX. WHAT Mrs. Delamere said was law to John Bradley; and though her mandate demanded that he should stand once more in 'the presence of the woman whose rejected suitor he had been, he thought of the trust he had accepted when he be, came the guardian of her children, and he shrank not from his duty. Once more they met; but oh I how changed was she from the glorious, ay, imperial-looking woman, who, in all the radiance of her peerless beauty, had borne the name of Kate' Lyle nine years before. 'Her once brilliant eyes now were hollow and sunken, and the stolid indifference of despair had settled upon her still beautiful but haggard face. She evinced no emotion as her hand lay in the trembling grasp of him she had not looked upon for so many a day.., She saw the deep emotion - sweep across his face, and stir his whole frame.           C U 3;ER, aI-*^B LYE. She saw how tinaefi\: changed him in all, sa: - hisl-ifes - ;she ew itl was' revived,-that -a: e grea^tgl^e  of years    for iaught,- s;  that what d hada-crushedAdo"wn in hii heart and bottled with, had overthrown the barrier time and absene had6 labored to erect. He loved her still. This she marked as she sat coldly beside him, and' saw pAidesorrow. and shame depicted in- his face as he strove to be composed; yet she could be calm. At length he spoke to her of his errand there- ^ o her duty to her child. He spoke of her not as 1ieaiWtiful, save in the lovely attributes of mind and character, but:o ne whose society should be -to her a new so^ ' fjoy and pleasure. . Kate listene "tfil he had qeased speaking. Her countenanceremained unmoved, and with painful & liberation, .shie -replied: 'Purrer may..Bome, if she desires it; but my home has never been a pleasant one to her in days past, still less can- I suppose it will be so now. However, her decision, whatever it mnay be, will meet with'my approbation.' The tone in which this was said,- left no hope in his mind that she would converse longer with him. Indeed, it-implied that she expected him to take his leave. :i: He rose with the accustomed quiet in his -face; indeed, a faint smile hovering on his lip, seemed   - 'R   R lrlrt. 1     .4,*. Fs?4 like a ittle triu t at ie had conauered his feelings.  ,Their eyes met i: TPhe cold expression vanished : from trs,: and a deep- sigh burst from the over- burthened -heart. He pressed her hand tenderly in his; he laid the aching head upon his bosom, and said,  Tell me all" . .     - She clasped her arms around his neck:,iandmur- mured, "Once a friend, now and evermore the same." lie pressed her to his bosom. He forgot- that the irrevocable fiat that separated them had " gone forth-that she was another's,--that she never could be more to him than she was :- He forgotall, save that he held her once in his '- fs,--that she was not happy, and he perchance[ might alleviate her sorrows. But she old him- nothing.  A low, strange laugh recalled them .to the pre- sent;- and as he turned quickly, the figure of Marian Sley glided from the shadow of a window. A shudder passed over-Kate as she watched her steal from' the apartment, and. John Bradley felt that his stay had best not be prolonged. She fol- lowed him to the door, and took his hand, fixed her eyes upon him, and said: " John Bradley, ifi ever I should need a friend, mav I send for you?" It was a moment before he replied; and then, in a voice so tremulous and broken, that his words .:   2382     CURREB LR Y were scarce distinct: "a.!.lRjgate, can you ask me?"  "Swear to me, that if in my utmost need my name is -ounded in your ear, that you will be with me without delay." f  "Kate, while we live, ask of me what you will, even to lay my worthless life down at your feet- to wander for you in penury and disgrace-to give up peace, joy,-all that soothes the wild unrest of life, I will do it, and smile upon the ruin. Should you ever need a friend, call on me, and at the peril of all I hold sacred on earth, I will stand at your side, so help me God." "Farewell,'? said she, "but not forever. I shall need a friend sooner or later; it may be very soon, and then we shall meet again." G "Good-bye,"'God bless you," he replied, while the tears flowed down his cheeks. - "One mo- ment," she said, and turning back she left him for a moment; returning she laid a long wavy tress of hair in his hand, saying, "Remember "  and so they parted. It was but requisite for him to say to Currer that her mother was unhappy, to gain, her consent to his plan that she should go home, at least for a time. Could she have seen her mother that night, as she sank upon her knees to the stern and crafty   OU RRER  LYE.      233 Marian, while sh:;begged her permission to re- ceive her child lunder her own roof, and have known the sacrifice she made in gaining the poor privilege, she would have fallen down and worship- ped, ay, wildly worshipped her. The broken-spirited woman, crushed down to the earth by the tyranny of her husband and the machinations of his sister, signed away her right to the last property that remained to her, as a bribe to reconcile them to the reception of Currer; and now, too truly, was she at their mercy. Not long had Currer been at home ere she dis covered that her mother was not only the victim of systematic persecution, but of a base conspiracy, too foul almost for belief. Rasheigh Gordon was a constant visitor, and professedly the friend of Ethelbert Sley. She had marked the exultation of Marian, as her mother's eyes sparkled again with their wonted fire while he conversed with her, and once, invol- untarily, she had been a listener while he had poured into her ear a tale replete with passion, and with all the ardor of a youthful adorer, pro- claimed his unholy love, which, though once so productive of misery, was cherished still the same. She said, in her young heart, "I will save her if I can; I will be her watchful guardian, though she   234     CURRER   LYE. know it not; though she repel me from her confi- dence, I will break the net that now enmeshes ner, and foil every attempt of her enemies." Marian needed- no monitor to teach her that Currer would prove a- dangerous mediator be- tween her and her passive tool. She remembered that in years agone, the strong will of the little child, had baffled her cunning and her hatred, and she felt as she looked into the depths of those full dark gray eyes, and marked the firm lines set round the chiselled mouth, which curled with the slightest expression of scorn; indeed, almost imperceptible, for the varying ex- pression of the face made it scarce possible for the most erudite to divine her full character, that she had to cope with no mean antagonist. Her plans were quickly laid, for she knew her main chance lay in active exertion. The spacious rooms that had been closed so long were now thrown open, and the elite of the city assembled night after night, ostensibly to welcome Currer to their exclusive circle. Mrs. Lyle seldom made her appearance at these reunions, but Marian apologised so gracefully for her, pleading her ill health in excuse, that all for- gave her absence. Alas! they missed her not, and it would have   CURRER LYE.        235 availed but little to have told them that she was dying of a broken heart. Once or twice had Currer stolen away from the gay scenes in which she delighted not, and gained her mother's apartment unobserved. She found her not alone. Rasheigh Gordon was at her side, and with a sickening sensation around her heart, she mingled with the revellers to watch the masquerade, for such it was. It was with an undefined feeling of dread that she one day found Marian engaged in preparing a toilette of exceeding richness for her mother, and heard her announce her resolution to appear once more in society. It was too evident that Marian herself spoke through her helpless victim.  Currer meditated long and sorrowfully, and with a feeling of despair, she almost wished she had not sought her home, for though Marian strove to win her confidence, by every act of kindness, she knew it was the serpent charming its intended prey, and that she smiled but to destroy. As she sat lost in these painful imaginings, a card was placed in her hand, and the name of Arthur Edgerton inscribed upon it caused her to start from her seat, while the tell-tale blood mount- ed to her cheek. Looking up, she met the gleam-   238      CURRER LYE, ing eyes of Marian, for she it was who had present. ed the card. "A lover?" said she. "No, Miss Sley," firmly replied Currer, ' not a lover, but a cherishedfriend."  "Why, you need not speak so very positive, for friendship may ripen into love, and that will dao as well."  The last six words were spoken in a tone that rendered them inaudible to Currer, but there was much of import in them. Arthur Edgerton little dreamed that a third party was witness to his meeting with the woman he loved, and as they sat there, forgetting all save the joy of knowing they were again together, they knew not that a listener drank in every word they uttered; and even then distilled a deadly venom to poison their peace forever. They heard not the cat-like tread of Marian as she glided away; and they sat there looking into each other's faces. unknowing that they might never realize the bright hopes each read in the other's eyes; for they read the language of the Soul while Destiny translated iti.  Arthur received an invitation to attend the ball Marian was to give on the following evening, and when they parted Currer had almost forgotten her   CURRER   LYE.       237      ; sorrows in the joyous anticipation -of meeting him     i again. The next day seemed to drag slowly by, but at      a length it was time to dress. A simple white mus- lin, looped with bouquets of jessamine, had been      i her choice, and when she had arrayed her graceful     : figure in it and carelessly disposed a few sprays of the pure blossoms in her hair, she cast one glance in her mirror, and with a smile of satisfaction, de- scended to the drawing-rooms. As she entered, she stood transfixed with as  - tonishment. -Directly under oneof the chandeliers stood her mother, conversing earnestly with Rash- leigh Gordon. A close-fitting dress of black vel- vet, heavily trimmed with bugles that flashed and glistened as the light fell full upon them, defined her almost voluptuous figure; her arms, that in contrast seemed like alabaster, were bare almost to the shoulder, and long heavy bugle tassels confined the short sleeve. A splendid diamond cluster on       :I her third finger was the only ornament she wore, and as the crimson flush stole to her face while she   g listened to Rasheigh Gordon, Currer thought she never beheld so lovely a woman. It was not long ere Arthur Edgerthn was an- nounced, but still Currer watched  her mother jealously, nor was Arthur slow to observe that she   238     CURRER   LYE. was abstracted, anid oftentimes absorbed in contem- plation of Rasheigh Gordon. He was a4over, and who shall blame him when he felt distrust-when he saw the woman he adored giving her attention to another. Marian and Rasheigh stood watching Kate as she glided through the mazes of the dance, and Rasheigh remarked, "Mrs. Sley is very beauti- ful." "Yes," said Marian; " what do you think of her invulnerable daughter? "Invulnerable?" said he, as he complacently caressea his moustaches. "Why do you so con- sider her?" "Because her heart was already disposed of when she entered society." "To whom?" "To the young man on whose arm she is now leaning." "We shall see, we shall see," said Rasheigh, and just then the dance breaking up, he requested to be presented to her. Marian lead him up, and said, "Mr. Gordon, Miss Lyle." Arthur moved away, and as she conversed with Gordon, the thought flashed across her-now I can save her. She despised herself while she realized the de-   CURRER   ILYE.       239 ception she was practising, but she said, "it is for my mother,"'and she was firm. When they parted that night, Rasheigh Gordon believed that Currer Lyle would easily fall into the toils, and he said, "I shall ruin both mother and daughter." Arthur Edgerton left with a firm conviction that Ourrer loved another, yet he would not fully give it credence. The belief that he might achieve a double con- quest, urged Gordon on, and Currer, as she read his thoughts, determined to encourage him, though she felt it could but entail misery upon herself.   240     CURRER LYE. CHAPTER XXX. SHE saw how Arthur Edgerton strove to dis- believe even his own senses, or yield to the dis- trust that lay so heavy on his mind; and she loved him all the more, that he battled with it. But, as night after night he saw her lean upon his rival's arm, and listen so eagerly to his light- est word, forgetting that he was nigh, the hope he had cherished vanished beneath the firm con- viction that she was a heartless coquette, and he resolved to go and forget her. "I will see her once more," he said, "and then it shall be to say farewell for ever." Once he had been watching- her, as she stood talking to Gordon, with a joyous smile mantling her fine classic face, and he said, "She is very lovely." At that moment she turned, and stole a glance at him. He was startled as he saw the unutterable agony that convulsed her; he saw the effort to be composed, and marked her as   CURRER  LYE.      241 she gained a mastery over herself, and mingled with the guests, giving a smile to each as they passed her by. He observed her anxious, care-worn look when she deemed that no one saw her; and more than that, all her eager, almost restless manner, whenever Gordon approached Mrs. Lyle. "There is some mystery," he said; "I must, and will fathom it." Unconsciously, he had thought audibly, and a low, silvery, strange laugh made him aware of it. Marian Sley could look very arch at times, and tapping Edgerton's shoulder with her fan, she said, "Are you, too, watching the comedy?" "What do you mean? I really do not under- stand you," replied he. "You must be very dull, however; I should not forget that there are few who enjoy a plot and counterplot as much as myself." "I bow in all humility to your superior appre- ciation in all, things, but must still blush at my ignorance of your meaning. Perhaps you, Miss Sley, would be merciful, and enlighten me." "Perhaps I. should be more merciful if I did not. But it is, really so amusing to see a daughter jeal- ous of her own mothe?, and bestowing her love upon the man who killed her father;-at the same time encouraging a lover whom she is confident   242     CURRER LYE. adores her, that I should like an appreciative con- fidante." "Miss Sley, who is the lover?" gasped Ar- thur.  Marian saw the deadly pallor overspread his face, but her powers of torture were not yet ex- hausted. She bent the glance df her cold eyes full upon him, and said: "The world names you as the ill-treated adorer; and she herself told me, in reply to my remonstrances, that she pitied you- that she long since would have discarded you; but feared the effect upon your naturally weak mind." "Good God! how I loved this wretch," he said; but suddenly remembering where he was, and de- termined that his informant should not know how deeply he was wounded, he made an effort to be Calm. His eye fell upon a young girl, who had -  .-been permitted to accompany her sister, that the world might contrast her plain features and re. tiring manners with her sister's splendid face and figure, for certainly both were heightened in every way by the contrast. The only interest he felt in her at that moment, was that she was neglected, apparently, and he de- termined to show the world that he could be gay as-well as her, who had so shamefully deceived him.  At his request, Marian presented him to Miss Dora Marshall.   CURRER LYE.       243 There was a quiet gentleness in her manner that seemed to soothe his perturbed spirit, and ere long he found that she had, like himself, been the vic- tim of a love that met with no reciprocation. He learned, too, that it had chastened, while it scourg- ed; and though it had left a sorrowful imprint on her young brow, it was banished from her heart- all, save the memory that it had been and passed away. She was very lovely when the glow of enthusiasm flushed her pale cheeks, as often it did, when he conversed of art and poetry, and gradual- ly he felt drawn towards her by. the strange simi- larity of their history, and the congeniality of their tastes;     / He had known her but three short weeks, when it seemed as though her society was necessary to him, and he sincerely believed he loved her. He did not dream that he could think of her as a sister, and, mistake that feeling for the higher adoration he should have offered her as a husband, for he soothed his conscience when it whispered, "You love her not," with the thought that the first ardor of his affection had been damped by the deceit of her on whom he had bestowed it, and now the holy and subdued passion he felt for Dora, was as the pure gold thrice refined and free from every attribute of change. He spoke to her of his hopes but he deceived her not.   244       CURRER LYE. He told her of his great trial-she looked at him while he spoke and realized how great it had been. She loved him; and accustomed as she had been from childhood to be the second to her sister in all things, even in her mother's affection, she did not think it strange that he could only offer her the wreck of what had once been a wild passionate love.    - Thinking of him as she did, she fancied even that was more than her desert and looked upon him as something far above her. When he told her of his poverty, she laid her head upon his shoulder, and he, felt she feared not to share it with him; and when they parted she was his affianced bride. Currer felt that she was sinking fast beneath the heavy burthen that devolved upon her. She reflected in agony upon the fearful miscon- ception he must entertain of her; she wrung her hands and prayed for strength, for resignation to do her duty. It was granted hier. It was a wet unpleasant afternoon as she was sit- ting thinking of the past, and marvelling much if her efforts would avail to save her mother from the wicked snares of Gordon, when a note was placed in her hand from a friend, requesting that she would visit a poor family in the vicinity. Returning from her errand of mercy she saw a miserable cripple endeavoring to cross Broadway, ] . ,   CURR ER  LYE.      .245 amid the crowd of omnibuses and other vehicles thronging that great thoroughfare. He was, truly, a pitiable object to look upon; both legs had been amputated at the thighs, and it was painful to see his exertions as he strove to move along by-means of two blocks, which, fast-. ened on his .hands, assisted him while his arms literally supplied the place of his lost limbs. It was just the hour in the evening that Broad- way presents so wonderful an aspect to strangers visiting our city. The down-town factories had poured forth their thousands 'of employees, male and feinale, and they came up the great avenue of the city, in twos, threes, and fours, arm-in-arm--the fringe weaver, the shirt sewer, and the artificial flower maker. The young girls who worked the sewing machines; some from the patent medicine and per- fumery establishments, where they put up and label bottles and pill-boxes; others- from the trim- ming and lace stores, where they measured and cut from morning till night; milliners, dressmakers, box-makers, book-binders and folders; representa- tives of every branch and department of female labor, just let loose from their twelve hours' of thraldom, came chatting gaily along, happy in the thought that from their week of honest labor they should buy some coveted article of dress for the   246      CU'RRER L Y-LE. next Sabbath, that oasis in the desert of the work. ing people's life; or, perchance, relieve their in- firm or sick and suffering parents. They pass on but noticed not the poor cripple, as ne paused in the midst of the shouting -cartmen, hack and omnibus drivers, as they vainly endeav- ored to extricate their vehicles from the mass. The policeman, with his badge of anthority, saw him not, as he shouted in gruff tones, "Move on ahead, move on, will you?"For they saw such objects of charity in all their daily walks, ay, saw and relieved them to the full extent of their poor ability, for "it is in the bosoms of the working people that charity makes her home. The toil-hardened hand is ever open to relieve the necessities of a suffering fellow-creature, and though the donation be not blazoned on some public subscription list, to herald the donor's bounty to the world, it is given ever with a kind word of consolation, that falls like refreshing dew upon the sufferer's crown of thorns,  Currer had stood watching the cripple and partly absorbed in reflecting upon the ills of life, and the ingratitude of her own nature to dar repine at the will of Providence, when she saw how trifling had been her visitation of trial in comparison to that he had been called upon to endure.   CURRIER LYE.       247 A moment more, and the way was cleared; but as he strove to gain the opposite sidewalk, a splen- did carriage turned the corner of the street. It seemed impossible to hope that he could be rescued; but there was no time for reflection. Currer, rushed forward, grasped him by the shoulder, and dragged him safe, as it were, from beneath the horses' feet, for she felt their hot breath upon her cheek; so close were they to her, as she assisted him to the sidewalk. She bent down to hear his thanks, and say that he was welcome. When she raised her eyes, they met those of Arthur Edgerton, who, from a little distance, had watched the inci- dent. From that moment he felt that he had wronged her, and determined to seek from her an explan- ation.  He knew she loered him; for, in the look of an- guish that swept across her face, and the tone in which she syllabled his name, there could be no deception ;-and a woman so. noble in every in- stinct, could not be the base and grovelling crea- ture he had believed her, when he spurned her from his heart. When Currer returned home, she saw, by the gleam in Marian's eyes, that her malice had been fed with some new triumph. When they met at tea, she said, "The Mar-   248      CURRER  LYE. shalls were here to-day, and Angelique tells me Dora is to be married in a few weeks." "Indeed," said Currer. "Yes, and to a gentleman you knew. Indeed, I once thought he was very fond of you." Currer looked at her half in fear, lest she should speak the words the most dreaded to hear:; yet, instinctively feeling it would be better could she hear them at that moment, when she must be calm. "You would never guess who it is she marries; so I will have mercy, and tell you. Who should it be, but the sighing swain you discarded for Rasheigh Gordon. They are to be married, and settle here in the city. He has just succeeded to Dr. Barton's extensive practice. They say he is even more fond of his affianced than he was of you. I declare, you do not seem to comprehend me. I am speaking of Arthur Edgerton." She felt a cold shudder pass over her; and then the iciness of death settled around her heart. She made one great effort to be calm, and she was so. She even smiled, and nursed the belief that they did not know her heart was breaking-that all the brightness of life had vanished in these few mo- ments. The silence and darkness of her own cham- ber were the only witnesses of her great sorrow; and as she thought of all the past, from early   CURRER   LYE.      249 childhood, as she did think of it in connection with her mother, she found it hard to entertain kindly feelings, for in her misery, she said, "Child- hood I never knew,-every innocent delight-of youth was debarred me. Isolated from a mother's affection-made to feel the weight of years ere they passed over my head-crushed down to the very earth by domestic tyranny, and now to be the vic- tim of my early fate again, and find the arbiter of my destiny standing between me and him I loved, is past endurance." Amid all these wild thoughts, her mother's face rose up like a dim shadow.; but she put the lofty monument of filial duty between her and the spirit that cried out "Revenge}" and again she triumphed. It was far in the night when she retired to rest, and then it was not to sleep. As she lay awake, listening to the beating of her own heart-for in all else the silence was unbro- ken-she heard a low murmuring, as of subdued voices, and a sound as though some one was weep- ing bitterly. Hastily flinging a shawl around her, she de- scended to the hall, and stood transfixed with amazement, as she heard the voice of Rasheigh Gordon. , "You speak of refutation," said he. "What   250     CURRER LYE. does the world say now? That you are a slave -that you, the once haughty Kate Lyle, once so beautiful in her almost matchless loveliness, has sunk into imbecility." "'Do they say this?" "They do, and more-that your husband is weary of you, and longs for liberty; that all the ' fortune you brought him has been squandered at the gaming-table; and when the few he still may call his friends, have remonstrated with him, he has told them you should be his next stake on the hazard."  "Did you say that Ethelbert had so spoken?" "I did." "Will you confront him and repeat what you this night have said to me?"Ourrer at that mo- ment could have knelt and worshipped her mother for she said to herself, "She needs no protector her dignity will bear her safely up; her woman's pride and virtue will rescue her." "Will I confront him? Yes." "'Tis well; to-morrow I will send for you to repeat in his presence what you have asserted." "No, madam,  not to-morrow, but to-night albeif the small hours are verging on to morning; to-night I will see him in your presence. I doubt not he will be extremely edified with the interview, when I  tell him you previously granted me one,   CURRER LYE;        251 and with your own fair hand admitted me to his house; with your permission,- I will call him." "Stay I if manly sympathy for a deeply injured woman has no power to move you, think upon your honor as a man, and remember you sought this meeting, and it was granted, for what? that it might be the last we should ever have. I ask you now, by all your hopes of happiness hereafter, to forget this wild and guilty passion, to leave me on the instant and never-see me more. I have linked my fate to Ethelbert's, and though he crush me beneath his feet, spurn me, and turn from me with loathing in his look, I will cling to him. That I love you, alas! you too well know, but let it from this moment be forgotten." "Give me now, your solemn promise to fly with me whenever I may desire, and at whatever time, or before the sun shall set again, your name will be coupled with disgrace." "You dare not! I will go this moment to him, unworthy as he is, and claim from him protection, I have been the' meek passive tool of you and Marian Sley; she has misrepresented me to him and made him hate me; but while I bear his name I will demand from him the consideration to which I am entitled as his wife." Gordon's voice sank almost to a whisper as he fell back and buried his face in his hands.   22      CURRER LYE. "And it is for this I have cherished your image for long years-have thought of you night and day, 'hourly, and madly dreamed of a future hap- piness. To find- the woman for whom I would have sacrificed my hopes of heaven wayward, fickle-false to me, herself, and all the attributes of her sex- save instability. Kate, you never loved me, and I, oh heaven! how I loved you!" The deep despair that seemed to force from him this avowal, touched every finer feeling inhernature.  She forgot all but the great wrongs she had suf- fered, 'and that she was beloved. Her head lay upon his'shoulder and she said in a calm, firm tone-"I am yours." "Will you then go with me to another land, and leave behind every regret, every association, share my fortunes, be they what they may, whether good or ill betide me, and promise to be happy?" "Happy? think you I should' not be happy? that I cannot easilyforget?" "Listen to me; to-morrow ,night'at this time, have all in readiness; and when upon: the morrow you are sought, miles shall divide you from 4his hated prison-house. Shrink not, and should your courage fail, retrace the past; think of what you are and what you have been. Remember ho 'has caused the change that separated your:freafi that, ;q, you held dear on earth, whose hand it wa:ry" :r: i . ,. -' ' 3 1   CURRER LYE.      ,  253 - "That murdered her husband, and made. her children fatherless," continued a low deep voice, and as they started to their feet in terror, Currer stood like an avenging spirit before them, with-a high and holy purpose enwrit upon her brow. "Shame upon you," she said, c" to torture- with your cruel taunts a helpless woman, bowed to the earth with sorrow. Think you she ever may forget you are the author of her misery-that' you it was who first poisoned her ear with the veenom:-of distrust, and made her turn from her young hearths first idol, to worship you, until estrangement made the home that was a paradise, an abode of wretchedness: the spirit of him whose blood is)i upohn our head, still watches over his early love'in the person of his child. You toolk the :life God gave him-that you never can give back; but you could not in his life take away the honor of his young and cherished wife, -or' h l1 you now. M y dearest hopes have been sacrificed for her:salvation; and go where you will, I will be' upon your track to remind you of ? br H! U 'guilt, : "Kate sat still and motionless; but Gordon stood I  ur  the, s:     i\  ': g:g g upon, the stern features, of the young girl, whsos f0i]was immovable as marble.  Her tall - rureit/i'd white, and a great resolution  i:" ;254       CURRER  LYE. *-at - yvisibly irradiating her eyes, made her seem in- spireqd. He- recovered himself, and with a sneering smile, - said: "You are jealous, Miss Lyle." The fixed glance was not unbent from his face. Not a muscle of her's relaxed;- the same mournful expression remained, as she gently said, "Leave this house; think of the part you have acted, to. night, and in deep contrition expiate your treach- ery. Go, forget it, if you can, butl,:one no. more. My lips are sealed from the qment t:ie door closes upon you, and nothing shall tempt me to refer to this hereafter.". -  r   '  : :  Her manner repelled atn at  d/ sarcas?,. for he knew, as-he listened ',' '  airmw tipped with it would glance off roPe :shi^ , shield of. an upright consctge,:  anlod. he: : her;  - .     1 -  7 A L  ^ She opened the door, and so h' He, t ii o v the darkness.        :--w ^ti  - - He said: "Will you fo lvem     ,.  :  "From my heart" she reiwed  . A  ';  Returning illed her mo, er t'o .ei wn   - Kate whilpetrd mTV  ::d  ]F  '   ":sUr: .' long-subdueduedlf^^ O UT        A7,xp+ "You forgive tlIE' -"4l      g look upon me,'love I   ove,'itl' % d e  *i  . -, '  -^ *f ' * , .,         h ir -, , * /^ re   CURREB LYE.        255'   .?':t:" fered will be as naught. Take me to Our confi- dence, and let me console you all in your many - trials. My life, henceforth, shall be devoted to you, and your Tiesires shall be mine." "Leave me, now; I would be alone.", "Tell me, first, I am forgiven." "You are."' And moving her away, as though her presence was painful to her, Kate was alone. What fiery ordeal she passed through that night, no one knew.  - Uponthe morrow she sent for Ethelbert. What - passed between them was locked in their own bosboms. But when heosought Currer to tell her bosm s thather 3 X wished to see her, there were ' tracs of   on *hlt i-cheeks. :   -".* a+,te -tok h daughter's face.. between her ^ - .:ad; gaze'd long  and earnestly upon it. -' .  A   le ::seemed satisfied of'her sincerity,  - and e i to  of all that had been. She beg- -'.::; ': :gedl " ehss begged it as a dying womnan. 4 V-hb*w his young life must :I .   b; e;: -potr, unless. she ,strethed forth '. : ,;:g:d/:': and gained fr(-iher, a promise ,*  -' - t o  ts&B  toh C el^U trie:,;^ ^^^is e-.s and enable :'. * ":% ' '!:'a:reques:l';it n  Bradley should :i:' :"-,"f::E ...:.:":m taftg for Europe by the ill- **; ' *v it . X   256      CURRER LYE. ness of Crles Lyle, who had never left his room since he had perused the letter left by Inez, and his physicians recommended, that as soon as he ' was able to travel, he should enjoy change ot  scene. John Bradley, therefore, determined to wait and accompany him. When he received Kate's hasty summons, he flew to her bedside. She told him that she had but a fw fleeting. hours to live, and her only earthly desire was to - die with him -near her.  Dr. Grant was called; ,and when he left, he aid, 'She may last through the day, butItfear no0t"  ' This is very sudden," said Bradley. :    i: "' For three years she has been in a decline, g a- -1 ually wasting away, day by day. I foresaw moths ago, she would go thus suddenlyaH  a ex citement might take her off at once." , ': " , That night, with her head on Curer' boso, . and John Bradlegs haid i h'er:s, sh e.ip' ay' : : w v - to another, andhe -,rus P better wor    ' A ' It was a great ttria Xt(titrer, to loos-pokin-t - " still form, ardlAnowthatow- she, ifde'ed, aor   ; phaned. But there*.w as another-yet to co ;.  ' greater  one. - The day after the 'tineral, :ArtmrEdron ri e4 quested an interview. ..   CURRER LYE.        257' . She was very pale, and her close-fitting black dress made her look almost ghastly.- , As he took her cold hand, he told her that- he wished not to question her, or to revive what "mir'f;i to both, be a bitter recollection; he only implore:&; her to explain to him the cause of her strange con-::' - duct, and to forgive his distrust of her.  She listened to the words of Marian as he re-  peated them. She heard him tell her, in broken accents, that he had pledged himself to another;  and oh I who could realize the self-denial of this   i matchless girl.  He told her, that though he had pledged his  troth, he was not irrevocably another's. She laid   q her- hand upon his arm and forbade him to proceed  -trembled violently for a moment, and almost  fancied she was dying; indeed, she prayed it might be so, but in?f*fiew moments recovered herself suf-  i ficiently to speak calmly to him.  "What my motive was in acting as I did, I may  never tell. All that could explain it is buried in  the grave; there let it rest forever.. And did I sup-  pose you couldc be so base as to win the first true  affection of a young and helpless girl, and after  assuring yourself that you had done so, offer her     your hand only to prove recreant to your faith by  desertifig her, I should despise you. Could I accept  a heart so false to every principle of honor as  '    **                    . s     "   CURRER   LYE. yours would be, I should deserve your contempt. This, perhaps,# the last time we shall ever meet, anqt will better for both that it -should be so: rvent prayers will ever ascend for the welfare yourself and future wife, and when you have forgotten me, I shall still remember you with the purest feelings of friendship." "Friendship is a cold word to supply the place of the wild worship--the idolatry I feel for you." It would be better could I school myself to speak more coldly still. You are another's now; you never can make me entirely forget that you once loved me. And now I only ask that you will leave me and never seek my presence again." "Currer, do not exact from me such a promise --I cannot, will not make it--I could not .keep it if I would;' do not deny me the poor-privi. lege of seeing you--of at least hearing your voice, and hoping you are not utterly estranged from me. "The less we speak of this the better for us both. I must bid you farewell now." She was so little agitated he could not realize what she was enduring in parting with him, as she said, forever. "You never loved me," he replied bitterly. "If you will be happier thinking so, I shall be happy that you do."   '   CURRER  LYE.      259   . "Your intention is never to see me more?" "Never!" "You have determined, and have weighed yoggr resolution well?"           - : ; "I have, and you as well might move the arch-;'A ing skies that bend above us, as me from the strokig' purpose of my soul. If you would have me think well of you, leave me, and never refer to this again." "Be it so--I never shall." She looked at him as he left her-she listened to his footsteps as he descended the stairs, and heard him go out. She thanked Heaven that strength had been given her to sustain herself in that ordeal, and then she sought Ethelbert to speak with him in relation to her mother's last request. In concluding their conversation, he told her he should be happy to consider her an inmate of his house until it suited her convenience to leave it. "I wish to leave it to-morrow," was the reply; and bidding him farewell, she left his presence. On the following day she was closeted with John Bradley, and the whole of her inheritance, save a few hundred dollars, was settled upon Ethelbert's boy. To his request that she would make his house upon the Hudson her home for the present, she returned a decided refusal, announced to hin   260     CURRER LYE. her determination to study foir the stage, and the next day found a home in a boarding-house, whose proprietress was no other than the renowned Mrs. Paterson.  CURRER  LYE.       261 CHAPTER XXXI. BEFORE their departure for the continent, John Bradley called, with Charles Lyle, and endeavored to dissuade her from her purpose. But to their prayers and entreaties she turned a de'af ear,-smil- ed incredulously when they pointed out how many obstacles she must encounter, and cheerfully bade them farewell, telling them, that when they returned, her name and fame, a$ an actress, would be given, to the world. Of her success, she did not doubt for an instant, knowing, as she did, her intense wor- ship of everything poetical; and certainly a high appreciation of poetry must embody every requi- site; beside, "Miss- Lyie would make an actress," was written on her mind's page, and she was san- guine even to elation. Once only had she visited a theatte, and that was when quite a child. She had accompanied her brother to see an eminent actress play ":-Bian- ca," in. Milman's tragedy of Fazio.   262      CURRER LYE.' She walked home like one in a dream ; for days after could think of nothing else, and almost'ador- ed the woman who could so portray the concep- tions,of the poet. A letter of introduction gained her admission to the study of an eminent actor, who, having retired' from the stage, read with a limited number of young aspirants for dramatic distinction. To him she made known her desire of adopting the profession, and requested his advice, stating also her wish to become his pupil. "My dear young lady," said he, "were I to give you my advice, it would be to banish every thought of entering our profession at once from your mind." "May I ask you why?" "For many, very many reasons-; not the least weighty of which is your entire ignorance of all its toils and hardships,; the sacrifice you must make of every cherished feeling; the insults to which you must be exposed in the slanderous at- tacks of the envious ; the disgusting attentions to which their malicious aspersions must subject you; and numberless minor troubles, of which you have as little idea." .B aeal:-Sir, you have given me  a catalogue sufficien "-;fmidable to discourage any one less    CURRER LYE.        263 persevering than myself; but I am not awed from     : making an attempt." "Not for one moment did I suppose you would be so. I never knew any one to accept such ad-. vice as of any importance. I merely gave it, be- , cause I esteemed it my duty; and -that in after years, you may cast no reflection upon me in re- gard to it. Now I must speak to you of terms. My charge is fifty dollars for a course of twelve readings,-twenty-five to be paid before we com-  mence. After you have studied three parts, and  become familiar with -them, I take you to rehearse them on the stage for two hours every morning, until yo a are up in the business.' I shall then request fifty dollars more." Here was one beautiful link in her chain of ideality shattered at once. "Up in the business," and " fifty dollars!" She looked at him, to see if he were jesting; but he seemed serious, sitting there, talking in a very matter-of-fact manner, for  l he really meant all that he had said. Not for one   ? moment had she dreamed of his taking money for such a service. She thought he would feel a de- light in fostering such talent, as she believed her-  self to be possessed of, and imagined every =em-   - ber of the profession, young and old, would hail . . her advent among them with joy. In tis, as in  many other respects, she grew rapidly wiser.  ; i ', y,  .   264     CURRER LYE. "When will it suit you to commence with me?" she asked, endeavoring to conceal her emotion as much as possible from him. "Friday morning, at ten, you can call. What do you propose reading first?" "If you have no objection, I had thought of Bianca." "So I would have supposed," said he, glancing at her askance. "But first, I must candidly tell X X ; you, that if I find you have no talent, I shall tell /iQ;-J-Oa so; for in that case, I should be guilty of dis- honesty, both to you and myself, in encouraging you."      . . 'How so?" "By robbing you of your money, and myself of valuable time that might be better employed, than in teaching a pupil who would do me no credit.'" "May I ask you why you speak so very dis- paragingly of a calling to which you have been so bright an ornament?" "Miss Lyle, I do not speak disparagingly of my profession; on the contrary, I reverence it, not only as an art, but one gifted with high antd ennobling tendencies. .No greater proof need be - a:duced in.-support of my assertion, than the fact, 'g' that from the time Thespis acted at Athens, it has affordalspiption to the greatest minds of their 4, 4:. ^  ^ !  ; -'S s' *i  w ' - -   CURRER LYE.        265 day-from  Shakspere, Byron, and Shelley, to Knowlesa and Bulwer. Wherever poetry finds votaries, the Drama goes hand-in-hand. My only object, in speaking as I do, is to justify' my disap-  ; probation of all debuts in general, and more espe- cially those made by romantic young ladies, who    ::! adopt the stage without an idea of the responsibili- ties attending their undertaking, and who affect the most sovereign contempt for all who are con- nected with it,--imagining that they can be ac- ' tresses by instinct, and always impressing it upon every one with whom they become acquainted- that their friends were very much opposed to it, and have utterly discarded them, because they think it a disgrace."' "You speak very harshy." "That, I certainly do not intend; but to me, who. have watched the advancement of the drama from boyhood--and beheld a Siddons,: a EHelen Faucitt, and an Ellen Tree, slowly working their way up the steep and difficult ascent, fostering the germ of their great genius until they gained a sure foothold, and then winning the homage of the world, as it shone out like a beacon-light far above the height attained by others-to me this . 2 system of making debuts is degrading the pro-    X  fession:     .  "If a wife determines to forsake her, husband i, 1 ] .'* -  - . -^- r          , ,pi' ;-   TO 4    266     CURRER   LYE. and break every tie that should be held sacred- on account of some real or, as is more frequently the case, imaginary wrong, she flies for refuge as a last resort, to the stage  "She makes a debut in Julia, or Pauline, or perhaps, Lady -Macheth. Her friends crowd the theatre, scatter bouquets at her feet; the first night she makes herself ridiculous; next she obtains an agent, who makes arrangements with the differ- ; ent managers for her to "star" through the : ... country;-she makes a tour-fills the time; the managers feel they have been deceived, but quietly pocket the loss and mentally resolve to keep a sharp look-out in future. "Scandalous reports begin to circulate in rela- I   tion to the cause of the difficulty between her and her husband-it is bruited abroad that she became enamored of some actor, and for his sake deserted her family, cast away all cherished associ- ations and followed him. "It matters not how frivolous this may be, one and all give it credence, and the last scene is enacted when the lady is heard of as under the protection of some wealthy gentleman, and giving dramatic readings in the small towns. "Certain 'ambiguous givings out,' have reached the ears of various fast young men, who talk large and loud in billiard saloons and cafrs-an unenvi-   CURRER  LYE.       267 able reputation is courted by her own indiscretion -the world looks upon her as utterly lost, and the stage is blamed-the theatre denounced as a pest-house, and all concerned with it are branded as miserable and worthless wretches. "This is the only disgrace to our profession, and were I a manager, my theatre should be closed against every novice who sought to cast ridicule and scorn upon it, by making a debut." "I intend to make one myself, and must not agree with you, however just I may deem your depreciation. I will call on Friday, and you shall judge for yourself whether or not I have talent, and if your impressions are favorable, I will take lessons of you." "I like your courage and perseverance," ho  replied, smiling; and bidding him adieu, she re- turned home to meditate upon all he had said to her. On the following Friday, she kept her appoint- ment, and Mr. W., having decided that she had talent, consented to instruct her. A few months, and she had made preparations to appear in the character of Bianca, at a theatre on the East side of town. It was with a strange thrill of pleasure that she read her name in large letters, on the bills posted at the corner of every street, as she passed along   268      CURRER  LYE. on her way to rehearsal, the morning of the even. ing on -which she was to make her debut. Though she did not feel any want of confidence in her ability to acquit herself creditably, at least, but her heart sank within her when she entered the theatre.   -      ' -It was a cold October morning, and as she passed through the dingy narrow passage, and ;tod for the first time behind the scenes, the dim igdht stole fearfully in through the crevices in the flats, and the actors were walking about shabbily dressed; some of them with play books in their hands pacing the stage up and down, conning their parts, and Mr. W.., in whom she had never seen indications of an ill-temper before, was sitting at  : a table watching the rehearsal, making out a bill for the next evening, and directing the business of the piece in sharp, quick tones, that absolutely frightened her. The leading man was of course the Fazi6oof the evening, and as every actor dis- likes the part, he was no exception to the rule; he was rather a singular looking person, who evi. dently:prided himself upon his figure; His limbs were cased in lavender cassimere, but they were far from being as straight as an Apollo's; he had little sharp grey eyes, and when he smiled, had an expression about the mouth singularly like a' e   CURRER LYE.         269      i '(My dear," said he, with a manner intensely      - patronising, " come to cues; I really have not time   i to attend this rehearsal, only came. as a favor to help you along. I have an immense part to study for to-morrow night; by-the-way, come and see me; I'll get you a seat in a private box; it's tremendous, this part, I assure you. I rush on the stage cover - ed with blood in the last scene, jump three times in- to the air and die. Come to cues now, that's a good girl; let's get on with it." So saying, he took a tattered book from his coat pocket, and devoted his attentioi to the study of his great melo-dramatic part, during the remainder of the rehearsal. Currer observed the significant looks passing be- tween the actors as her utter and entire ignorance of "business" or "effect," was made apparent, and '::' once, in rushing off at the line, "Oh! that I had wings to waft me!" she stumbled and fell over the green baize that lay -rolled up in the first entrance. A lough laugh was all the sympathy she received, and though hurt by the fall, her feelings suffered most. It required no eye of Mephistophiles to perceive that Mr. W. feared the result, and in his own mind prophesied a failure for her; and at the conclusion of the rehearsal, she felt that her confidence was fast vanishing.   270     CURRER LYE. She had expected encouragement, and met with ridicule on every side. As she was leaving the theatre, weary and sick at heart, a note was placed in her hand, requesting her to call on Mr. W. at three o'cloclk, that he might give her a few hints that would be of service to her. Punctual to-the hour, 'she was admitted to his presence, and to her query, "How did I re- harse?': received the reply, "Very badly." He saw that she was deeply wounded, as she asked: "Where was the fault?" and his impatient man. ner was somewhat modified, as he took her hand, and drawing her close to him, said: "My child, it was all fault; you do not modulate your voice; you shout every line in the same tone, as .though you imagine the more noise you make the greater actress you will be. Then again, whenever you have a cross to make, instead of working your speech to- the climax and crossing on the word, you  speak half the speech and jerk yourself- to the other side of the stage, where you bel- low out the other half; you do not use your arms gracefully, you play with your right hand entirely, with your arm in an angle, the- elbow pressed close to-your side; then again, you kneel on your right instead of your left knee. You do not consult nature or you would know that Bianca would never .,   CURRER LYE.        271 take Aldabella's hand unless compelled, and then   t: swould shudder at the touch."'  Here was an. array of faults to overcome in less  than three hours, for that was all the time she could  , call her own before she must be attending to her toilet. With a flushed face and nervously excited   -  manner, she reached home and sat herself down to think upon the step she had taken. Her head throbbed painfully, and there was no one to speak a word of kindness or yet to assist her. She had eaten nothing since the day pre- vious,- and a faint, weak feeling at the heart warn- ed her that she would not get through the evening unless she took some nourishment. A bottle of wine was procured for her, and hastily swallowing a glass of it, she started for the theatre. Her basket was there already, and her dressing-room was the one allotted to the " stars." She looked around it, and another of her bright visions faded away before the stern reality, The floor was carpetless, and in one corner, stage chairs, with dingy gilt paper dispersed here and there upon them, were piled up to the ceiling. A gilded throne and a bad imitation of a ship stood near the door,- and groping her way in, she had knocked against it and thrown it down. A harsh voice called out, "What are you doing   272      CURRER LYE. there? Can't you see what you are about? Bill, come and light the gas." A boy of perhaps eighteen came in, whistling and half dancing; he obeyed the order, looked curiously at her, and left her alone to dress. She scarce felt able, and it was with great difficulty she could restrain her tears, for hers had been a very bright dream, and to have it thus destroyed, was almost more than she could bear. A slight tap at the aoor, and a young, modest- looking girl, very pale and delicate in her appear- ance, entered. i I have come to see if I can assist you in any manner. But they have made no fire here, you must be cold. I will see to it.3" There was something soothing in the tone of her voice. "You are very kind, I am sure, and I thank you very much," said Currer, bursting into tears. The young girl gazed at her with much of pity in her expression, and replied, "' I will not let any one in, but will go myself and pick up something to make a:fire with, and then I'll help you dress." She was not gone a moment before she returned from the carpenter's room with- her lap full of blocks, and the little rusty stove soon diffused a generous heat through-the chill place. Having un- packed the basket, and arranged each change, so   CURRER LYE.         273 that it could be quickly donned, she brought from her own dressing-place the cosmetics required, and commenced to assist the weeping Currer. "Goodness! how hot your hands are.  I am afraid you will be ill, let me call some one." i No, I shall be better soon; at least, I hope so. But I have such a dreadful sensation of fear, that I find it impossible- to divest myself of. I feel as though I were about to die." -"Oh, that is nothing, rouse yourself, and bathe vour head and eyes. Every one is frightened at first; but they'll be sure to give you a reception, and 'by the time it's over, you'll be all right." "Were you frightened at first?" ' Oh, dear me, I'm only in the ballet, and so I never have to go on alone. I'm in all the cho- russes and dances; but I haven't spoken yet." "How long have you been on the stage?" ! "Six years." "And have not spoken yet?" : "No, indeed, and do not expect to, for a long time yet." These were wonderful developments to Currer, and every moment lessened her hope of achieving a triumph. The call-boy now came to the door and cried, "First music."   274      CURRER   LYE. The last fold- was adjusted, and she stood to look at herself in the cracked glass. Her first dress was a sombre, dun colored me- ring, with heavy facings of black velvet. A fillet of velvet was twined in the folds of her light hair, and. although not strictly beautiful, she looked very interesting. "Second music, everybody for the first piece," was called out close to the door. She started to leave the room and go out, think- ing the fresh air might revive her; but a deathly faintness came over her; everything danced be- fore, her eyes; her head swam, and she fell back fainting. The young girl ran for help; and the leading man being nearest at hand, came with a brimming glass of champagne. As she revived, he held its to her lips, and she drained it, scarce knowing what it contained. It is scarce necessary to say that the curtain fell that night upon her failure and disgrace; for to all it was evident she was "under the influence of stimulants, and unknowing the circumstances. This itself was sufficient to deprive her of the sympathies of her audience, and it did so. Most harshy was she censured; and now she realized already that there were more thorns than roses in Av-  the path she had chosen.   CURRER LYE.        275 CHAPTER    XXXII. THE following day Currer called upon Mr. W., and asked him what she had better do. He was writing, and without raising his eyes to her, he replied: ", Go into some country place, and play walking ladies." "Then you do not advise me to take another course of lessons?" ' By no means; you must go and learn the trade." It was very evident that he wished her gone, and bidding him good morning, she left the house. Turning into the next street, some one tapped her on the shoulder. It was Mr. A., the leading man-the Fazio of the preceding night. "I wanted to see you, and should have called on you, if we had not met. I have a proposition to make to you." They walked on towards her home, and con- versed upon the events of the preceding night, he 10   276     CURRER LYE. describing with, to her, painful accuracy, the mi- nute faults, and throwing over the whole perform- ance a coloring of such a ridiculous nature, that she could not but feel that he was endeavoring to humiliate her. ,He spoke of Mr. W. as an "old fool," who knew nothing himself, so far from teaching others, and wound up his harangue by proposing that she should take lessons from him, and, in consideration of two hundred dollars, paid in advance, he would not only make an actress of her, but obtain an engagement for her in Roches- ter, where he himself was to play in the course of three weeks. To this generous offer she gave no definite re- ply; but telling him she would consider, and give him an answer soon, they parted. Shutting herself in her room, Currer meditated long and earnestly upon the step she had taken. Should she abandon the career on which she had entered, or perseveringly adheie to her reso- lution. Now it was stripped of all the ideality with which she had so liberally invested it; reality had entirely superseded romance, and shrinking from the contemplation of the picture in its al- tered aspect, she said: "I will abandon it." But again she thought of the, few hundred dollars that remained to her, now diminished to a mere   CURRER   LYE.      2" mere trifle, recalled her to the necessity of exert- ing herself in some way to earn a livelihood. John Bradley and her brother were far away. To write to them and obtain an answer, would not only demand more time than she, could spare, with her limited means, but a sacrifice of her pride, that she was unwilling to make. Her decision was soon formed to accept the offer made by Mr. A., and in a few moments she had despatched a note to him, requesting him to call upon her that evening, in relation to the busi- ness of which they had spoken. Feeling somewhat more calm after her future course was decided upon, she took up a book to read; but scarce had she seated herself, before the door opened, and the portly figure of Mrs. Pater- son met her eye. Dropping into a seat, and put- ting her hands on her knees, she commenced with- "I guess. you'll-have to leave here, miss." Cur- rer rose to her feet. "What may you mean, madam?" "I mean this, and nothing else,-you can't stay here. I've been inquiring round this. morning, and I'll let you know my house is respectable, and don't harbor nobody what plays on the stage. Be- sides, I know who you are. I've heard a plenty about your mother and a man called Bradley, and I want you to go right away. My boarders are   278     CUR ER LUIE. all fust gentility in the land, and Miss Mudge al. most went off into a fit this morning, when she heard there was-such a thing as an actress in the house, and  Currer pointed to the door. "Leave the room, if you please; it is quite un. necessary to say more upon this subject. All that I request is, that you wilt not inflict your presence upon me while I am preparing to take my de. parture." "Do you mean to say I aint good enough to sit down with such a  miserable creetur as you are? I'l let you know who I am! This is my house, and I'll set all over it, wherever I please!" No answer was returned to this burst of in- dignation. Currer busied herself in making ar- rangements to leave; and Mrs. Paterson, finding no disposition to continue the conversation, indig- nantly flounced from the room, saying, as she banged the door after her, "I'll let her know " Where to go, the half-distracted girl knew not. There was no one to whom she could apply for assistance to extricate her from her dilemma but Mr. A. She awaited his coming, and told him all that had occurred. "The fact is, my dear, I have been dining, and drinking so much champagne, that- I can't collect my thoughts to advise you. There are plenty of hotels, but you see the proprietors always look   CURRER   LYE.   ,  279 suspiciously at a young lady entirely alone and unprotected,' seeking for board, unless you had just come in on the cars or steamboat. Confound the wine I I feel devilish. stupid-can't collect my ideas." As Currer looked at him she began to doubt if he ever possessed any of his own. - "Ah! I have it-get your traps ready-let' me see; what time is it now?-we are just in time for the Hudson River train. Get in the cars and go up the road till you meet the down train, I think they pass at Poughkeepsie. You can get aboard of it and come down to the city, get into a carriage, and drive to any of the hotels, register from any place you think proper and stay as long as you please." The plan was not in accordance with her views of propriety, but what alternative had she? None, nor yet time for reflection, fearing, as she did, another visitation from Mrs. Paterson. Carried away by excitement, scarce knowing which way to turn, she consented. Mr. A. accom- panied her to the depot, obtained checks for her baggage, and having obtained her promise to let      I him hear from  her as soon as her place of resi.    I dence was settled upon, bade her good-bye.       j It was full nine o'clock that night when she took   '! her seat in the down  train, and overcome by the    I   280      CURRER  LYE. fatigues of the previous three days, she leaned her head upon her hand and fell into a troubled sleep, from which she did not awaken until aroused by the bustle and confusion attending their arrival in New York. Stepping from- the cars, there was not a carriage to be seen, and the rain was falling in torrents--and she was glad to take refuge in an omnibus; -having ascertained that its route lay through Broadway, she took a seat in the crowded vehicle, but as yet had not decided what hotel to put up at. A lady who sat opposite, was here accosted by a gentleman who had recognized her as the wife of an old friend, and Gurrer learned from her remarks that she was going to the Metropolitan. This determined her, for she thought, there will be nothing strange in my being alone, since this lady is so too; but she wasn't long in learning how materially "circumstances alter cases." When the lady   alighted at the Metropolitan, Caurrer followed -her closely, for there seemed to be a sort of protection in her presence, and she did not feel alone while near her. They were ushered into the spacious parlors, and though it was then near twelve o'clock, there were laughing  groups scattered about, and all eyes were at once fastened upon her. The clerk came up, and the lady in whom she   CURRER LYE.        281 felt so deeply interested, handed him a letter; he glanced over it, and all bows and smiles con- ducted the lady out, saying, "Your apartments are quite ready for you; we received Mr. Mer- chant's telegraph this morning." He did not seem- to observe Currer, who now felt a strange foreboding that he would refuse to assign her a room. For a long time she sat there hoping, praying that he would return, but he did not. She rose and rang the bell, a servant an- swered the summons. Telling him she desired to speak with the clerk, she stepped out into the hall, for the fixed gaze of those. in the parlors had now become torture to her. The clerk came up, and looking at her with a cold, stern 'ex- pression said, se Did you want to see me?" "Yes, sir, I desire to be accommodated with a room.? "We are quite full, and have-no rooms vacant." Too. proud to say what she should have said, that she was almost a stranger, and knew not where to go at that late hour to look for accom- modation, she spoke not but passed out into the almost deserted street. Not an omnibus or car- riage was in sight, and walking rapidly down Broadway, to the Irving House, she there received the same reply. The C--  House was her only hope, and as   282      CURRER LYE. she turned her steps towards it, the City tHall clock pealed forth the hour of one. Parties of midnight revellers were breaking the stillness of the night, and as she passed along, more than one loud shout and vulgar jest was sent after her flying footsteps. At the e   House her- efforts were success- ful. The clerk not only assigned her a room, but accompanied her to it, and when she entered, he still stood in the door with a strange expression of countenance, which sent a thrill of terror through her heart. In a dignified tone she said, "My baggage is at the express office, and I will feel obliged if you would send ,for it at your earliest convenience." "We will do so, certainly,' he replied, but still he did not retire. "I should like to be left alone, if you please." With the same smile, he bowed and left her. Closing the door after him, and fastening it, Cur- rer Lyle sunk into a chair and burst into tears. That his manner had implied insult, she could not doubt, and oh! how humiliating was that thought to the high-spirited woman, who, until now, great as had been her heart-trials, had never realized what a fearful ordeal it is to go out into the wide world and battle with it alone. For a time it seemed as though she should die   CURRER LYE.       283 from the violence of her emotion, but at length it subsided, and low deep sobs were all that betrayed how much she had suffered. She rose, and was about to arrange her toilet for the night, when a light tread, as of some one stealthily entering the adjoining room, arrested her attention. Pressing her hands close against her heart to still its wild throbbing, Currer glided to the communi- 'cating door and listened. The silence was absolutely terrible; she could distinctly hear the breathing of the listener on the other side, and in less than a moment a thousand horrible fancies swept across her mind. She remembered how far he had brought her to this room; how little it would be of credit to her to have her name mingled with -a disgraceful scene at a hotel in the deep silence of night,-and how little of her version of it would be believed. Slowly the knob of the door was turned; it did not open, but the confirmation of her fears had stricken her as it were to stone. She wished to call out, but could not,-to retreat from her station at the door--to take her eyes from it-to hide anywhere and shut out the terrible vision-but ;she could not do it. The power of will was 'lost in lack of strength, and still she stood with clasped hands, parted lips, and eyes set in a stony gaze full upon the door. -A   284      CURRER LYE. The key turned in the lock and the bolt was drawn, yet she moved not. A picture of her as she stood at that moment, would have been one of the grandest representations of fear ever given in art. The door opened slowly-her very breath was suppressed as she beheld the clerk who had escorted her to her room. He started as he looked at her so still and motionless, but recovered himself and ap- proaching her, took her hand. A stifled shriek was all she could utter for the moment; her very-flesh seemed frozen to ice, but as the same expression stole over his face, her dis. gust and loathing broke the spell that bound her. Never before did woman look so majestic in her regaliest pride, as did she, as, bending the full light of her flashing eyes on, him, she pointed to the door, and said: "How dare you, sir, intrude thus upon a lady?" Any man possessing the true refinement of a gen- tleman would have realized from her manner that he had been misled by appearances--not so with him. With a derisive laugh, he said: "I have seen such ladies as you before; you may save yourself from any,farther trouble when I tell you that you cannot make anything by playino off vour heroics on me; so you may as well come down to common sense at once."   CURRER LYE.        285 Currer placed her hand upon the bell-rope, and in a firm tone replied: "I give you an instant in which to leave my room; delay longer and I will send for the pro- prietor, and demand his protection." "Much good that would do -you. Do you imagine you would be believed when I tell him how you came here alone at this hour of the night? At one word from me you would be ordered into the street. I'll leave you, since mycompany is not desired, but don't think of malking capital at my expense by saying anything about the affair, for I warn you that you will be the loser." So saying, he left her to herself; she listened till- his footfall was lost in the descent of' the stairs, and then placing a small table against the door and the" washstand upon that, so that at least she might have some notice if another intruder invaded her privacy, Currer knelt down and prayed for mercy to that Power who alone can grant it. A holy 'calm stole over her perturbed spirit as though she indeed communed with the. higher Mediator, 'who "-doeth all things well;" she felt that He would guard her from evil, and flinging her exhausted form upon the bed, she slept till the morning sun, glowing in at the open window, gave her a bright salutation. During the day she sent for Mr. A., and when he   286     CURRER LYE. came, expressed her desire to leave the city at once. He then proposed that she should advance him the two hundred dollars, in return for which he would give her a letter to the managers, and in two weeks he would come to Rochester, read with her, and assist her as far as lay in his power to make a suc- cessful re-appearance. To this arrangement Currer acceded, the' letter was written, and in the evening she started for that city, where she arrived the next day, and pre- sented the letter to the managers. They informed her that their time was filled, -certainly for the first three weeks, but after that they might give her a chance. So far as Mr. A. was concerned, they had not the remotest idea of engaging him, but if she could wait till they were ready, they would allow her to make an appear- ance at, their theatre. - This was very different from what Mr. A. had led her to expect, but when she reflected she said: there is no hope left but this, I may as well re- main. Stopping at a hotel was necessarily expensive, and she sought for private board; but in vain did she apply; the mention of her profession seemed to fill every room in the house, as if by magic, until she said to herself, "Did I know a needy landlady whose rooms were not in demand, as an ,o.,   CURRER   LYE.      287 act of Christian charity I would go to her, and stating my business, tell her I desired accommoda- tions in her house-for on the instant she would be crowded to suffocation." When she arrived in Rochester, a hundred dollar bill was all she pos- sessed. in the world. Three weeks at a first class hotel was not in- dulged in for a trifle, and at the expiration of that time, she found herself in a strange city, with fifteen dollars remaining to her. At length Mr. E., the manager, who seemed not only interested, but to sympathise with her, set apart one night on which she might appear. Her selection was Margaret Elmore, in Love's Sacrifice-a part with which she was more conver- sant than any other in the acting drama. When she opened her eyes upon the morning that was to usher in her second appearance, it was to see the snow three inches deep on the side-walk, with a fair prospect of six inches before night. Her toilet completed, and an umbrella obtained from the office, she started to attend her second rehearsal. It was with some difficulty that she 'kept her footing on the slippery pavements, and by the time she reached the theatre, her hands were com- pletely benumbed with cold, and her thin boots, that afforded but a slight protection to her feet,   288    !CSURRER   LYE. were wet thr6u'gh,: Another lesson was learned, when she saw ih4"beautiful Mrs. E., who played the leading business, ;comfortably wrapped in a camlet cloak and heavy furs, and as .she beheld poor Currer shivering in her light mering, said, "Dear me, how cold you look, come right into the green-room and get warm; let me put your feet on this nice warm fender; how could you be so im- prudent as to come out with paper soled shoes on? why, my dear child, you will be compelled to nurse yourself up, and protect yourself from the weather, if you ever expect to be'an actress. Look at me, with my Jack Sheppard boots on," said she, laugh- ing, and holding up a tiny foot, cased in a dimi- nutive boot with pointed toe and long tops. She had scarce felt the glow of the cheerful fire, before some- one called, "Every one for the first ,: "piece; Margaret and Herminie," and following Mfrs. E., who was to be the Herminie of the even- ,.   ^ing, she stood upon the stage and commenced the   {as. rehearsal, which seemed to proceed smoothly -ough, until the last scene of the fifth acet, when ::?, . Mrs. E. and Mr. M. disagreed upon the trifling matter of their respective situations; he insisting that Herminie should be on the right, and she that her place was on the left of the stage. "Mrs. E., it shall be as I say, or I will not play K.  'to-night." ;..S  k;                  *   oCURR,ER IY E,       289      - "Just as you please, sir. I ha+ eplayed Herminie more times than I can coujntand I will not give up my privilege of keeping the left hand in this scene." Mr. M. had for some time been in a troublesome domestic difficulty, and to 'drown his sorrows had recourse to spirituous liquors. His manner on this occasion was wild and excited. He flung the book from him, declared he would not play another night, and left the stage, abruptly concluding the rehearsal. Currer, who now seem- ed to anticipate any emergency that might arise in theatrical affairs, took a carriage, and called at his hotel. He received her name, and came out to the carriage to speak with her, but to all her re- monstrances turned a deaf ear, saying that under the circumstances he could not act, and preserve his independence of character. Currer invited him to- take a seat, and accom- pany her to the hotel. He complied with her request, and after a calm- and dispassionate view of the affair, consented to- appear as Matthew Elmore, the character he was . to have taken that night. The curtain rose to a fashionable though not a crowded house, and when it fell, every one acknowledged that she had indeed achieved a, triumphant success. Mr. E. informed her that   290     ?CuRRER  LYE. "he would Flr stihappy to have her play two weeks, but that;'th e:celebrated Miss K y, was engaged, and they had not the time to offer her;-if, however, they had any time open before the season closed, and she should chance to be in the vicinity, they would be happy to have her fill it." X "Then you really think I have talent?" said she. "I do not thinl, I know you have." "What course would you now   advise me to pursue, to be successful?" "You would not thank me, were I to advise you as a true and sincere friend." She said, "You do not know me, if you can for a moment suppose me capable of misconceiving any one who, in a friendly manner, tells me ,:truth, even though it be disagreeable for me to hear. I desire you to advise me in reference to my future course, what I had-better study, comedy or trag- edy, and which would I be most capable of plwying?-          . "Your face and figure, Miss Lyle, is eminently adapted for comedy, and I firmly believe in that as your peculiar forte eventually,-but you have yet much to learn. Were you my own sister, I would by all means advise 'you to go into some legitimate theatie, and play walking ladies, nor could I pay you a greater compliment, for that is   CURRER LYE.        291 a responsible position, and ope-that, without extra- ordinary talent, you could have no right to aspire to for five years to come. - "Our profession is one requiring long'and care- ful study and experience. "While it is the embodiment of poetry, it is moved by mechanism; and when you reflect that the public can go to any theatre and witness the delineations of a Cushman or a Davenport, for the same amount of money they pay to see you por- tray a character, you-cannot blame them that they will not make the allowance for your faults,--that you are a novice, or that they say, 'What right has a novice to take a part she is incapable of doing justice to?' "These are homely, but undeniable truths, and I should be very far from being your friend, did I not tell you what I think." "I thank you, Mr. E., for your counsel; and think I may promise to follow it. I will call to say farewell to Mrs. E. to-morrow morning, for I shall leaves the city in the afternoon."  -  : The following day an advertisement in tlke Herald met -her eye, that the Virginia theatre would be opened on the) following month, and that ladies -and gentlemen, wishing situations, were respectfully requested to write to the manager, Mr. EH--n.               a    292      C UURRER LYE. -Having bid adieu to the kind-hearted Mr. and Mrs. E., Currer departed for New York; arriving there, she immediately mailed a letter to Virginia, applying for the situation of "juvenile woman" in the theatre. A new theatre was just completed in New York, and she determined to apply to the managers also. When she was ushered into their presence, her courage waned -beneath the pompous manner of the younger one. Mr. E. was rather inclined to corpulency, and strove his best to conceal it, by wearing his clothes so tight that you might have supposed they grew on him, instead of under the hands of a skilful Parisian tailor. His watch-chain was composed of diamond links, and a large cluster diamond pin garnished his elaborate shirt-front. , His hand was very white, and as he caressed his well-trimmed whiskers, another cluster sparkled on his little finger. He was evidently got up without regard to expense, and fancied himself quite irresistible, especially when he smiled and displayed a set of very wwhite teeth, which he often -did, and his highest ambition was to have the repu- tation of a " lady-killer."  Mr. W., the senior manager, was a little, spare, light-complexioned man, and spoke with a broad Yankee dialect.. He -took Currer aside, and told her that they would offer her a situation to play a   CURRtER  LYE.      298 portionof the juvenile business; and when he saw that she was undecided, he looked significantly at Mr. E., and said, "Harry, you come and talk to Miss Lyle.'"Earry smiled, and with. a conceited bow said, "I am sure, if you have failed to per- suade the young lady, any attempt Imight make would be useless." This was spoken in aItone implying that he expected to be contradicted. Mr. W. said, "Come, come, none of that, Harry," and just then some one calling, he left them. With a supercilious smile; Harry began by stringing compliments together, and lavishing them upon Currer, who thought it was a pity that such fine speeches should be wasted upon any one so unappreciative as herself, for wasted they most surely were. While they sat there, Mr. W. re-entered, accom- panied by a lady closely veiled, and stepped with her upon the stage. The,fascinating Harry raise d his glass, and pro- nounced upon her figure as "confoundedly splen- did.'  When Mr. W. requested to hear her voice, she     " threw back her veil, and disclosed a face so wan and haggard, that Currer positively started. Her eyes were a deep hazel, singularly bright, and half hidden, when-the face was in repose, by long dark lashes.       :              *     A.^   294     CURRER LYE. She commenced the exquisite Aria, "Ah non Giunge, in a voice of the most exceeding richness; and before it was ended, the glistening tears on Currer's cheeks told how effectively it had been rendered. Mr. W. talked apart with her a few moments and then drawing her veil close over her face again, she took her departure. "There's an engagement made at once," said he coming forward, "I have got her for one-half what she is worth." "She's a magnificent form, but looks awfully blase." "Never mind, the figure is a great point gained; her face will make up splendid at night, and then her voice, isn't it glorious?" "Well--yes--it will do," drawled he. "What's her name " "Madame Inez, she told me." "Inez,-that will read well in the bills. Where does she live?" "At number    . Oh, you scoundrel, I see what you are up to. No you don't," said the eru- dite Mr.-W. Currer turned away in disgust; perceiving which, Mr. E. said: "You see, she is jealous al- ready. Oh, these women, they'll be the death of me, for let me alone they won't."   CURRER LYE.        295 The poor victim of woman's persecution came back to Currer, and invited her to go down and look at the "Star" dressing-room. She told him she wished to speak a moment to M. W., at the same time declining his proffered courtesy. "Stop," said he, "I want to propose something to you. I can be of service to you in more ways than one. I can teachyou to act, and also befriend you in a pecuniary point of view. If you will come here and take the position we offer, and go to the Clarendon, it shall cost you nothing to live this season, at least. I am owner of a- ship, inde- pendent of my interest here.' I am fond of acting, so I found all the capital to start this place with; and now it has become a hobby with me. I play for my own and friends' amusement. But I shall be weary before spring; and then, if you do as I wish, I will have the cabins of my ship fitted up for your accommodation, and we'll take a trip across the Atlantic together." She was not angry with him; she despised him too much for that. And as she quietly bade him good morning, her contempt spoke more plainly than words could have done. 'Her mind was occupied during her walk home, in thinking of the young girl who had been en- gaged as a vocalist. But when she'arrived there,   296      CURRER LYE. and found a bill of eighteen dollars for one week's board lying upon her table, she remembered that a single dollar was all that remained' in her purse; and the sympathy she felt for her was, for a time, merged into solicitude for her own future fortunes. To herself she said, "Under any other circum- stances, I might allow pride to prevent my draw- ing either upon my brother, or my guardian; but I have no right to come to a hotel and live with- out the ability to pay for my accommodation. The proprietor must not be defrauded of his rightful dues; nor can anything justify me in refusing to apply for the means of meeting his demand." At John Bradley's office, it was but requisite for her to mention her wishes to his confidential clerik, and the sum she wished for was at her disposal. The next day she received an answer to the Vir- ginia application, requesting her to come at once- that her services would command thirty dollars a week, and a third clear benefit. So materially had her views undergone a change since her first introduction into theatrical myste. ries, that she at once accepted the offer as more than realizing her wildest dream of dramatic dis- tinction, nor stayed to consider whether the mana. ger was a responsible one or not. She only knew that the means of living were proffered her, and inquired no farther; it would /    CURRER   LYLE.      297- have been very difficult for any one to have in-  d uced her to believe that she had as vfet scarce pass- ed over the threshold of the profession, and knew nothing of its trials; for so much had she suffered, her conviction was strong that not another trial  would be her's to learn. Having made all arrangements, she once more bade adieu to New York, and started to fill her      i engagement; but arriving at Philadelphia, the con- sequences of her imprudence in exposing herself to the inclemency of the weather, overtook her in      the shape of U special messenger called " pleurisy," 9 and at the expiration of four weeks she found her-  self barely able to continue her journey. Weak and exhausted, she reached her- destina-  tion only to meet with another disappointment.      i The theatre was not yet scarce half finished. It had been commenced by a party of -young men  with more taste for the drama than money to build a temple for its representation, and their     : means being exhausted, the building had been for three weeks "in statu qu," with but little prospect  of- its being completed, unless a capitalist should take it off their hands. - ' Of that there was little probability, for in small places, a theatre must always be a bad speculation, since it cannot be sustained by a resident popula- tion more than three months of the year.   298      CURRER  LiLE. The manager himself acknowledged that the prospect looked dark, but at the same time stated his intention of going to Philadelphia to see what he could do in relation to it. He. did so, and in a few days returned, bringing the welcome intelligence that he had succeeded in interesting some parties in it; that the work would now go on, and the house be in readiness by the ensuing month. This was very hard to bear, but Currer took as philosophical a view of it as possible, consoling her- self with the reflection that she must live some- where, and it might as well be there, since there were no ties of friendship to bind her to any par- ticular location. -^ .    CURRER LYE.        299 CHEAPTER     XXXIII. THE principal hotel in W  , was kept, by a person named Carson, a large, burly man, who en- tertained the most lilliputian ideas of everything save making money. He had one son, who had arrived at "man's estate," though not at "years of discretion." He was an exceedingly clever young man, so the ladies averred, and had poetic genius, whichh'he had once immortalized by writing a l"pome," the gist of which was that he had been charmed of a Genii, who transported him to the top of Sit. Paul's in London, from which point he looked down and consigned to eternal perdition a young lady who had lately married and settled in a little town in Ohio. It was in blank verse. The editor of the W Intelligencer, when he refused to publish it, said it was very blank, but the poetaster had his admirers among the magnates of our land-the ladies-and they said it was sweet.   300      CURRER LYE. As soon as this interesting Byronic young gent glanced at Currer, he plumed himself to effect a conquest, which was of course to him the easiest thing in the world. INo one could withstand him. After two weeks continuous efforts to interest her, he retired cha- grined at his ill-success, for all his languishing looks had failed to interest her a particle, and day after day she ate her dinner with as good an ap, petite as before she met, him. Upon her first arrival at the house, she had, been so ill for a few days, as to require- medical advice. A lady boarder, named Lorimer, had kindly prof- fered her assistance in nursing her, and to her Cur. rer soon became greatly attached. She was a very lovely, amiable disposition; one whom it was impossible to know and not love. She had been but five months married, yet to Currer, who had watched her often as she sat ab- stracted with a sorrowful expression in her young face, it was evident there was some strange and pa'n. ful mystery between her and her husband. He was a stern, morose-looking man, much older than her; and sometimes, when he fancied no one observed him, would look at her with a half savage expression as though he hated her. In his absence, she evinced a gay, cheerful dis- position but the moment his footstep warned her   CURRER LYE.        301 of his coming, she would glance fearfully at the door, and relapse into silence. If he addressed her, which he rarely did, save to ask her some question, she would reply to him in few words, and then as though the sound of her own voice alarmed her. Currer had never before been so unreserved to. any female as with her, yet there was an inde- scribable manner about her that repelled any al- lusion to the cause of the unhappiness she could not conceal. One morning she had been more than usually depressed, arid brought her sewing to spend the morning with Curler in her room. She seated herself at the window, which opened on the main street, and commanded a view of the river. ' She had not been there long, before sheang back into the corner of the room, crying--  "Hide me I hide me! she has come again." Currer took her to her bosom, and said, "Who has come?" But she had already remembered where she was, and though still. pale and trembling, started to go to her own. apartment.        - Scarce had she left, ere a piercing shriek rang out; and as Currer opened her door, she saw the servants running in every direction to find Mr. v                  a,   ,iUW     CURRER LYE. Carson, and heard the voice of Mrs. Lorimer, as she screamed, "Save me I oh, save me 1" Quick asthought she flew up the stairs, and at the head of the third flight a horrible sight met her gaze. Mrs. Lorimer was staggering towards her, closely pursued by a female with an upraised knife. Fling1 ing herself between her and her helpless victim, Currer warded off the next blow as it was de. scending.  By this time Mr. Carson and several other per. sons were on the spot, and the wounded woman was carried to her room. Currer stood by her and held her hand, while the physicians examined her wounds, and ques- tioned her in relation to the attack made upon her. She stated that the woman had met and followed her from Currer's room--that she had tried to escape by running up the stairs, but was overtaken, and the first gash in the side of the head was re. ceived before'she reached the top. Still she kept on, with the desperation lent in the race for life or death, but ere she reached the second landing, another fearful wound had been inflicted in the right breast, and, glancing off from a rib, pene- trated the lung. She gained another flight of stairs, but here was sinking down, exhausted from loss of blood, when X,  ,    CURRER  LYE.      8Q3( the knife was about to descend for the third time, and Currer intercepted it. When her wounds were dressed, Currer, who  had volunteered to nurse her, was left with her alone, and many were her conjectures as to tl#      i cause of the murderous assault; but though the  injured woman spoke most freely of every circum- stance connected with the affair, her lips were  sealed as to what had induced so malicious an at-  tack on the part of the female fiend, whose inten-  - tion had evidently been to take her life.        ! Mr. Lorimer had been sent for,-but to the as-i tonishment of all, his first inquiries were, not of his wife, but the woman who had injured her. "Was she safe? -and where has she gone?" were  his first questions. Currer told him that his wife was even then, in all probability, dying, and that she who had thus cut her off in the bloom of her young life was lodged in prison.  In prison!"  exclaimed he. "I will procure bail for her at once; she must not remain there another moment." So saying, he hurried away,. without seeing his wife, or manifesting any anxiety'i concerning her. The physicians in attendance thought it barely possible that she might recover.  When the excitement had subsided, and all had   804      CURRER LYE. resumed its accustomed quiet in the house, she motioned Currer to her, and said- "I know that I never can recover. In that at least I know I cannot be deceived. I wish to ask you some questions, which I am sure you will an. swer truly. In all my life I have never wilfully Wronged any human being. I know I cannot call myself a devout Christian. Yet, so far as I could discriminate between right and wrong, I have chosen the right. Is there more required of me than this?" - "Have you ever prayed to Him, who alone can guide you in the path of duty, to give you strength to bear up against temptation?" "Yes, when a little child-not since; and now it is too late." And covering her face with her- hands, she burst into tears. "It is never too late to repent, or ask forgive- ness; and though your supplications ascend to your kind Heavenly Father at the eleventh hour, 'His healing grace will soothe your wounded, trou- bled spirit." "I am very young to die, very young to have yearned for death, as I. have yearned. It was very sinful in me to marry him; but I loved him so, and he did not tell me of her." "Of who.?" said Currer, passing her arm gen- tly under her head.   CURRER   LYE.      805  Again it seemed as though she had forgot her- self; for, giving a quick, searching glance aroufid the room, she whispered,." Did not he tell you?" "No, I saw him but for a moment."  "Well--I must riot speak of it; and- perhaps when I am gone, he will think kindly of me, when you tell him I did not, even to you. He never cared for me, and now I am going home."  She did not sob or moan; but the large tears     I trickled down her cheeks long after her eyes were  closed. At last she slept.               i Her husband watched with- her till daylight, but  -did not seem to sorrow over her, or realize that  she was dying. The physician came in early, and when he left,  called Currer from the room.  "Have you been long acquainted with her?" "A few weeks, only, sir."  ( Well, there is something very singular in the whole affair. I was assured by Mr: Carson that     i they were respectable, or I would not have at-. tended her. But my conviction is, that they are not married; and really, if I was sure of it, I     A would not- come again." It would have been quite impossible for Cur-  rer to have expressed the contempt she felt for him, as he stood there; so she remained silent.  ,^   806     CURRER LYE. "Did she rave any through the night?" he asked. "She did, sir, in the latter part of it.' "Could you not glean anything from that?" "I thought you base enough, when you spoke of abandoning a dying woman, let her character be what it might. But you were better fitted to answer to Heaven for what your principles of right and wrong should lead you to do, and I sealed my lips against making a reply. But when you could deliberately ask of me to betray the sor- rows of a poor helpless woman, who lays in the shadow of death, by repeating her incoherent ravings, to satisfy your idle and impertinent curi- osity, I must tell you, that as nearly as I could be insulted by one so vile as you, I have been, in your despicable opinion of me." A few hours after, another physician was called in, and said he could do nothing for her, and gave orders that she should be made as comfortable as possible under the circumstances-that she might last till the- next morning, if fever did not set in that evening. Mr. Lorimer was out at the time; and Currer was about to send for him, when a faint call-drew her to the bedside. "Mrs. Lorimer," said she, "I was about to send for your husband."   CURRER  LYE.     307 "Not now. I wish you to write a few lines to my brother for me. He will break the tidings of my illness gently to my mother, and that will be a great comfort to me, to think that she is saved a pang." Mr. Lorimer entered here, and said: "Mrs. Lorimer's brother was fortunately on his way to Cincinnati. I heard of him as being on the other side of the river, and I sent for him. He is now here. Do you think it will agitate her too greatly to see him?" "You had better speak to her, and prepare her  for the meeting." He stepped close to her, and said, "Mary." She turned away, while a shudder passed over her; but when he said, "Your brother is here-will you see him now? She raised her eyes beseech- ingly to him, and told him not to " deceive her, but tell her, if so great a joy might still be hers, as seeing him once more, her own darling brother." The door was opened, and he sprang to her side. "Mary, my poor, dear sister, is it thus we meet again?" "Arthur, be calm; you see I can be so." Currer, who had turned to the window, that she might not restrain a meeting such as theirs, had been startled by his voice. But when she heard her call him Arthur, she fearfully glanced at him.   308      CURRER LYE. "Arthur Edgerton?" she murmured, as a deep sigh escaped her, and she buried her face in her hands. There was.-in all the world no voice he could mistake for hers; and even though her face was concealed, he clasped her to his bosom, and they mingled their tears together. - "Here do I find you, hovering like a minister. ing angel around my dying sister's couch! For months, in all my daily rounds among suffering humanity, wherever poverty called me, I have heard your name coupled with acts of kindness, such as money could not purchase; and even in * separation have nursed your image in my hbeart, whence it never can be torn while I have life to cherish it." She looked at him earnestly, as though there was something she wished to say, yet dared not trust herself. At length she whispered, "Are you married?"  The intense agony she read- in his countenance was all the answer she required; and pressing his hand, she said, "May you be very happy." Lorimer was holding his wife's hand, and she slept as peacefully as a babe upon it's mother's breast. A  smile was on her lips; and Currer had never seen her face so child-like as it seemed then.   CURRER LYE.        309 When she awoke, she called Arthur to her, and  told him she wished to be alone with Lorimer a  little while-that she would send for them soon;  and they went out, leaving them together.      i Arthur told Currer that his sister had loved Frank Lorimer from her earliest childhood; that  her mother had never dreamed of their being uni-  ted, for Mary was too young. The thought of  parting with her had never entered her mind, . when Lorimer came to her and asked her only     ! darling daughter. She promptly refused his request.  "( May I ask your objection to me as a son-in- law?s" inquired he.     .   : C"Mary is far too young to marry any one, Mr.  Lorimer, and especially one whose views of socie-  ty take so wide a range as yours. She is too pure in every thought to understand them, and never shall she leave the shadow of my roof to go forthI with one who could not contribute to her hap-  piness."  As months passed, Mrs. Edgerton saw her child  fading day by day. She reproached herself, and permitted-Lorimer to renew his addresses. In a few weeks they were married. The day of their wedding, and just as her bridal toilet was  completed, a woman requested to see her alone.     She remained with her but a few minutes, when  :!l   310     CURRER  LYE. a heavy fall was heard, and Mrs. Edgerton found her child insensible on the floor. The woman had disappeared. As Mary re- covered, they-sought in vain to draw from her the object of her visit to her. "Mother," she-said, "do not ask me; I will never reveal what I have this day learned." Nor did she; from her early home she went forth leaning upon his arm-his bride. But the mother's eye was quick to mark the change that had come over her young spirit. Three times had the strange woman beenv with her in as many months. And now that she was dying, Lorimer confessed that she was his former mistress-that she had sworn to murder his wife, should he ever desert her to marry--- ; and that this was the fourth attempt she had made since Mary had left her home to go out with him into the Wide world. This was the protection he had given her who had never heard an unkind word till he syllabled it to her; and as Arthur told the story, he cursed him as a  black-hearted villain. He had been weeping when he came forth from his wife's room, and said in a broken voice: "Go to her, I think she is dying; but she does not realize it. Oh! what an angel-I have injured." She Was indeed dying, but knew it not.   CURRER   tYE.      8"I When Currer asked her if she knew how very  low she was, she smiled, and said, "I shall live, now that he has coime. I am sure I shall, for I feel so much better."                 ;H A death-like pallor here overspread her face, and a-half-scream escaped her, as she fell back on her  pillow;-it was dreadful to witness her sufferings,  and the physician was hastily called, who, as he^ threw open the windows to give her air, told themn she was going very fast, and if they wished to   ' speak to her, they had better do so at once, as a  few moments was all the time left them.- Currer  raised her in her arms; she grasped her hand, laid her head back on her shoulder, and raising     'I her eyes, said: "Oh! is this death?" "Yes, my friend, this is death; fear nothing:  - He who can save and bear you up through the dark waters, will not stand afar off in this your hour of trial; trust in Him." "I do; my brother," gasped she. He could not see her through the blinding mist of tears that veiled his eyes, but she whispered him farewell. Her last words were, (' I forgive you, Frank, dear-1 est husband; and her-tell her I forgive her too." And she was gone.  Here was another chapter in the sad history of life; and as Currer looked upon her who had beenn    - CUR R E R t YE. thus untimely snatched away, without a moment's warning to prepare for another world, she wept bitterly to lknow how fast the bright visions she had cherished were fading away beneath the breath of sterner realities. A shadow lay upon, the threshold of a far-off home, where sorrow, with listening ear, sat brood. ing in its own heavy sadness. There was grief in a mother's heart, and printed ,on a brother's brow. There was a seat vacant at the hearth, and a name unbreathed, save in the mournful remem- brances of the past, recorded on the leaflets of a mother's memory. Another little life had gone out with hers who lay so still and cold-gone out ere it had known earth's withering care--gone ere its little voice had gladdened a father's heart-folded to the angel's bosom ere it had felt the pressure of a mother's kiss; gone to a happier home than earth could ever give. They bore her to a lonely resting-place, far from those who should have scattered flowers upon her grave. Her last and only request had been, that no one should harm or visit upon the woman who killed her the retribution that should rest alone in the   cUR:EB Rn  YE. Y313           .(  hands of a higher Judge, whose tribunal was not on earth. When all was over, and Arthur was about to leave, he came to say farewell to Currer; and then she learned what she had not known before, that Ethelbert was an inmate of an insane asylum, that the malady had come upon him suddenly, but in one or two lucid intervals he had spoken of his dead wife, and told how deeply he had wronged her. All his misery and her deathl he lay at Marian's door, and denounced her as a fiend in human form. He told -how she had first taught him to hate the woman he had sworn to cherish, and driven him to seek refuge at the gaming-table. The next act in the sorrowful drama was enacted when Rasheigh Gordon was pointed out as his wife's favored lover, and then so great was his loathing of her, that he had joined his sister in a plot to induce her to elope with him. He spoke of Currer's self-denying devotion-how she had frustrated their deep-laid schemes, and eyen when convinced of their agency in her mother's death, had given all that was hers in obedience to her mother's dying request, that her child should not be unprovided for. All was now explained between them; he saw her heart so plainly that it seemed, when he gazed "   814      CURRE R  LBYTE. into her eyes as though he looked down into the crystal depths of a quiet stream, that mirrored on its bright surface every holy thought which stirred the under-current of her life. Hte knew her now, but but what availed it, since he had sworn to render to another what he could never give to any save her-the deep and pure affection--the undying loveof a husband for his wife? She seemed happy when they parted, and even smiled as she said, "I am glad you know me now, though I had wished the past might be forever buried with the dead. It is at least a gratification to thin thatyou can now, appreciate my motives then.' They parted at his sister's grave. Would they ever meet again? Hle looked back and saw her sitting there in the twilight, and asked himself the question. His heart answered yes, but his own sad fore- bodings were not dispelled by the reply. She sat there, the only thing of life amid the wrecks of time, the havoc of decay. Itfwas a very old burying-ground, and every- thing bore traces of ruin and desolation. Near where they had lain Mary Lorimer, stood the remains of an old family vault. The urn had fallen, and lay shattered amid the long grass. An *         # I   -OURRER  LYE.      315        a ivy .vine hung with tenacious endurance to the  crumbling remnants of the old ancestral, but neg-  lected pile. Alas I dust was upon the leaves.       :  Many a little grave that had held a heart trea-  sure, was overgrown with dark weeds, and no  record left as a Mecca, to which sad memory might make a pilgrimage.  The grey-haired'man had here been laid to rest : side by side with the new-born babe-winter re-       posing by the side of spring. The mother had passed away from the home       A circle, and the light of her .dear presence had     ,; gone out in the darkness of the tomb.  The father- had been taken from the loved ones he cherished, and the tears of widow and orphan  had mingled, as they gave him to the grave, dust     ? to dust; The dearest hopes of many had withered as they  entered here; but now those whom they mourned  were all forgotten, or perchance they themselves  had, in their turn, been borne along these paths -   S and laid to rest. And Currer said, as she looked around, "  What matters it; a few short years, and  i shall have passed away like the sad remembrance    i of a dream. The wild yearnings of the troubled  spirit, with all its eager aspirations,-the sorrows of life, and the thirst for fame, will all be in the  shadow of the valley of death, and none will re-  :!,'   316      CURRE-R  L Y  member that I have been, or sigh that I am not. False-frieads-the world's coldness and deceit for- gotten; ambition's vague desires crushed down in the broken heart; will it not be peace to the weary, overburthened bosom, to rest in a home like this? 1 A true friend knelt, in that calm hour, at the grave of Arthur Edgerton's sister, and prayed long and earnestly for her who had gone thus unpre- pared before the great Judge of human actions. Nor was she forgotten in her supplication. She prayed for his future welfare, and the happiness of his young wife--for strength to cast out from her own heart the love that lingered there,-to think of him as a dear brother,-,to be to him and his'a sister. She rose up from that grave with a holy resig- nation to the will of Heaven, and in that hour she had triumphed. Not a trace of that love she had felt for Arthur Edgerton remained. A pure, chas- tened, sisterly affection filled its place, and she was happier.   aUREBE LYE.       317  CHAPTE   R XXXV.            . THE day appointed for the opening of the thea-     . tre brought all the company together in the green room, and the manager went through the ceremo- ny of introducing .them to each other.. There is, perhaps, no place in the world, where so much envy and ill-feeling is concentrated into so small a place, as the green room; and as Currer listened to the ill-natured comments made by .ow  and another, as they descanted on the private char- acter of different members of the profession, she asked herself the question, "Is it to be wondered at, that the outer world refuse to look with admi- ration upon the votaries of the drama, when they themselves conspire to cast odium upon it as an art, by scandalizing aspersions, made oftentimes without regard to truth?" and  thought how strange it seemed, when such a barrier divided them from any intercourse with society, com- pelled, as they were, to seek within their own peld  sthy ee   818      CURRER LYE. limited circle for that social enjoyment, without which life-is a barren waste, they should sow the S:eeds of discord and disgrace, instead of peace and amity. rv   . There was one lady who never came to rehearsal without some piece of gossip at; her tongue's end, and it was quite astonishing to see how all the rest relished what she served up to them. "*- She generally kept up,;:a running conversation, something after this style: - ",',What do you athink-? M-iss Lynn has retired from the stage :fora few months. Ha! hal I pre- dicted that some-time- since. A certain gentleman with ligh air, I suspect, knows more about it than he will tell. ' I don't know how true it is, but they say Mr Middleton went home tight last night, and iteat his wife black and blue; that is the reason she isn't at rehearsal this morning." Just then in walked, Mrs. Middleton, leaning on the-arm of her spouse, and looking very little as Ad   thdugh she had been so abused, - She had sharp. ears, and had heard the latter part of Miss B.'s conversation. "Did you say my husband was tight last night?" "No, H said I heard so." - "Miss B.:, you would keep the whole theatre at, sixes and sevens all the year round, if people would listen to you. I positively think you have got the ^  % ,"-: . -i'  " 1   CURRE   LYE. worst tongue in your head of any woman I ever knew; if it was mine, I would cut it out, if I couldw not keep it from lying/" n, Now, just yW keep quiet, or I may say som e- thing that I know, and perhaps you woul d not like to hear. People that live in glass houses sh ont throw stones." -      -       g , teSine therel shoute d the stage mnager in a voice of thunder. Clear the stage-Hl for eit every one of yoP. I " iss B. flounced into the green  room, with a triumphant look at having had th e last wotd, and saying, t I don't think she g ot the best of me that time, the little fire-cat." Such scenes weref daly occurrence; and the constant bickerings so disturbed Currer, that her own dressing-room' became her i plae of refuge: when her scenes were not on, and this soon gained for her the reputation of being affected, or, as liss'  said, "La stuck-up nobody, putting on airs." Onone Sai"turday mornoing she stepped intothe box-office, to speakwith the manager in relation to a new piece, and found him in conversation with the "istar" who was to play on the following Mon- day; they had been speaking of Ingpmar, and she heard him say gruffly, No, I wi not do the piece with her; she is a novice, an4 1 aid not eomehere   ' 3I20"   ,CURRER LYE. ons in ating. Let Miss B. play the "No," replied the manager;: "she is engaged for the business; and, besides, shehas played it once this season with Mr S ,and I would not ask her to give up what she has a right to de. -.,ei          t "-'ight? What-right hasanovice to demand an:ything in the way of business?, and how the deuce came you to be taken in by a novice, so far as to give her the leading-business?" She is'very pretty and intellectial, gets through very creditably, and is a lady of undoubted t a lent, uncultivatelas yet, but will make her mark yet fshe -oes not get discouragoed. :   Z: ' nthepI it, i will not be bothered with Her; yrou mu-st give me somne one who knows the trade." But, my dear fellow, you place mnle in such a painful position."  CUttrrer here stepped forward, and as they were '44sfng With their backs to her, she was compelled to touch the manager on the'shoulder; he started, evidently much confused';but without appearing rto notie ishe asked, "oave you decided upon '- -:!w at we shall-donday might?, Whto, not  yet.' Allow me to present you rto Mr. Coeo;          p ;*,                 ;  - ':-"    CURRER  LYE.      321 ... He had been looking intently at her, and was evidently interested; but when she said: "I desire to say, that if you think proper to give certain parts--to which I am entitled, to others more capable of doing justice to them, I am quite willing. I am fully aware of my inexperience, and that I yet labor under the embarrassment in.. cident to a new position, and therefore wish you to use your own discretion in regard to casting the various pieces to be done during Mr.-Consuelo's engagement," A slight qulveringof her lip, when she began speaking, was all that indicated how deeply her sensitive feelings had been touched; but her voice gathered strength asR she continued, and/when she turned to leave the office, no trace of emotion was visible. Mr. Consuelo was a misanthropic and eccentric, but-yet a kind-hearted man. He saw that she had ambition, and her quiet, lady-like demeanor at once won upon. his better-nature, and he called :er back. "Did you ever play Parthenia, Miss Lyle?" "i have, sir, twice." "Yes, but my back is cut a- I play the pieoe; and you will find the part very ditferent,--I do not think you could get up in it:by b M nday night." "I will do it, sir, if you are willing." '-   322      CURRER LYE. -"'Very well, you shall play it, but -I will have to, teach you all the business; I will bring you my book to-study from." As the door closed behind her, Mr. Consuelo said, "She's a beautiful girl, and has got brains; I've taken a fancy to her, and I'll make her as- tonish you playing Parthenia, if I am not mistaken in her." , Currer had been home but a short time, before he came to her room. She looked a little sur- prised, but invited him to a seat, and he at once commenced pointing out the alterations that would be required, and also explaining what he could of the business before they rehearsed, lest the mem- bers of the company should complain of the deten- tion, for he had already-learned- that she was no favorite,with them. He seemed much pleased with her quickness of perception, and told her that he liked her very much, that he would be of great service to her in teaChing-her, and should watch for-her star in the air e mpyrean of success. His conversation then took a tone of familiarity that she did not approve of; and when at length he passed his arm around :h rwaist, she rose4 and in a mild tone said to him, ; Mr. Consuelo, for your kindness in overcoming your prejudicei and consenting to allow-me to sus- tain ysu in your engagement, as well as for your,   823  CURRER LYE.           3 pe to me'the business oft  i} part, acept my gratitude, and believe it is sinere: You offered to assist me inwhatIhave serd to be a difficult and arduous career. Believe m e  when I tell you that I should value your friendship high  ly, but cannot pay the price for it .that you would require of me, nor barter for fame m y own self-respect.          rad   h  looked into her eyes, and  wounded pride, but nothing of anger in their es- thr own ot of e dmployrtion. ressieon; and in moment his s   earching glance was changoed for one of dmiration. e '"I wTill be your friend as long as you will be guided by me, and never shall such a subject be revived in my mind again."  the und When h  left, it was with the underin that he should retrn in a moth, to p two weeks. In the meantime, another feature had been added to the stock company Madame Inez, an Italian vocalist, had been thrown out of employment byv the failure of a New York theatre, and had accepted a situation for the season. So said the manager; and urre found herself wondering when she had heard the name, for it sounded strangely familiar to her. the When she saw her, she recognized in her tho lady she had met at the M   n theatre in New York, four months previous: the same glorious *e   844       CURRER LYE. eyes and splendid fgure, and the same mournful expression were there, and she was drawn towards her by some mysterious sympathy, the same, but more intense, than she had felt for the unfortunate Mary Lorimer. The first night she was to sing, she came to the theatre before the conclusion of the first piece. It had been her request, indeed her stipulation, that she should dress alone, and a small room had been allotted to her next to Currer's, but there was no convenience-for a fire; and as it was a cold, gusty night, Currer knocked at her door, and in. vited her in to sit by the stove in her comfortable room.  She was wrapped in a shawl, and did not seem at first to hear, so lost was she in thought. When she raised her, head, it was evident she had been weeping, and the first impulse was to decline the proffered courtesy; but asishe looked at Currer's face, so full of womanly tenderne'ss, she rose and. followed her. When she had completed    her toilet, Currer thought she had never-seen any one half so lovely. She wore a dress of pure white satin, over which fell in rich graceful folds a robe of crimson velvet, fastened at each shoulder with heavy gold cord, from whichlf:arge tassels hung nearly to her waist. Not" an ornament of any description imparted   CURBER LYE.              /ii5 lustre to charms that required noheighteningiand one loud and long-continued outhurst of applause  greeted her as she stepped upon the stage; but     : when she commenced the sublime "Casta Diva," a death-like silence pervaded the entire audience. Higher and higher rose her voice, yet filled with  deep intensity, till it melted into a sea of liquid melody, and was lost-in air. Before the audience had time to break the spell that bound them for a moment after she had ceased, she had glided away, and when they commenced  the encore, had already gained her room.1 The manager had been in front, and seeing she  did not re-appear, came to her and told her she  must certainly go out, -if she did not sing. Me-  chanically she complied, but this time her song  was of love, tender and impassioned; all hearts  were wton by her siimple earnestness and her peer- less beauty, but she felt no pride that she had  achieved a triumphant success. She sang but twice a week, and on those nights the theatre was crowded to suffocation with the elite of the city. With Currer she was like a  simple child, but with strangers, who would have been her friends, she maintained a haughty re-  serve, until at length they no longer sought her  acquaintance.  Mucha of her time was spent with Currer, to  :I   826     CURRER LYE. whn she, confided so much of her history as to convince her that she had known wealth and luxury.   o,          w Her manner was sufficient proof that she had mingled in the first society, and yet she never mentioned the name of any one as a friend, or even casually.  A little chain, to which was attached a locket, hung around her neck, and one day she told Cur. rer that perhaps the time might come when she should learn its history. Three months had passed since they had first spoken to each other, and one day Currer received a letter from Charles. He was to be married to an English lady of rank, and after a brief tour through Europe, would return withbhis bride, and make his home near John Bradley's. From time to time she had spoken to Madame Inez of her brother, and had marked her agitation whenever his name was mentioned, yet when she had questioned her she had said, 'Do not notice it --I too had a brother once ; and now thinking she would be glad to know that she had heard from him, she flew to her room with the letter, which she commenced reading. When she read that he was to be married, Inez uttered a piercing shriek, and fell insensible to the floor. In an instant the whole truth flashed upon   CURRER   LYE.       827X Currer's mind,-'this, then, was Inez de Tressilji, her brother's first love, and now lost to him for-  ever. , She raised her tenderly, and when she recovered  and burst into tears, left her to weep in solitude,  for she had known such a grief herself, and could  realize what a -relief it was to be alone, That night Inez was to sing, and she went to her when it was time for her to go to the theatre.  She was more calm, and had ceased to weep.  No mention was made of what had passed, and  each felt a restraint that forbade them to speak of it; each refrained from motives of delicacy.  That night Inez de Tressilli surpassed herself. A celebrated artist listened to her, and the next  day offered her an engagement as prima donna, to sing in New York and New Orleans.  The troupe was already engaged, and a speedy answer-was required of her. She came to Currer, and asked her to advise her in relation to it. The theatre for the last two months had been but poorly attended, and during-that time no salaries had been paid.                           I Inez and Currer were both indebted to Mr.  Carson for board-there was- but slight hopes of  things bedoming  more prosperous-and Currer, much as she would miss her, could not but advise her to go, especially as Signor Mantini would ad-                     g   "-     C(URRER LYE. vi;e the sum requisite to relieve her from all her pecuniary: difficulties. On the following day she was to leave, and that night they sat together, neither feeling any inclina. tion to retire; and then, in the silence, when sleep brooded over all the house, she told her sad his- tory to Currer. How she had erred, and sought the river's bank to die. How John Bradley had saved her, and made for her a home, and how she had learned to love another, unworthy as she was, and then had fled because she would not, dared not deceive him. She told how she had wandered, penniless and almost starving, till a young physician had found her one night on the steps of a stately mansion, perishing with cold. Ee bore her in, and then she knew no more for many days. When at length she recovered her reason, and refused to tell her history, she felt they looked upon her with distrust, and determined to escape. As soon as possible she inquired the name of him who had thus befriended her, and left a note for Arth/ur Edgerton thanking him for all his kind- ness, and departed. Her voice was all she could hope to turn to account, and determining to gain a livelihood by it, she applied and obtained a situa-   CU RRER  LYE.       329 tion at the theatre in New York where Currer had first seen her. Here was another link in the chain of destiny; and as it was woven, she felt a thrill of joy per- vading her verysoul, that even when she had heard him spoken of in connection with an act of Christian charity, that well might have rekindled in her breast the old-time passion, it had not stirred the pulses of her heart beyond what, as a sister, it  should have done, and she thanked Heaven that it    : had been so sanctified to her. She folded Inez to her bosom, and consoled her as best she could; but what could be said to soothe a sorrow like hers? Alas! nothing; and when they parted, Currer, with many a fearful foreboding  for her future fate, bade her farewell.         As she kissed her for. the last time, she slipped a small packet in her hand, and saying-- "Give it to him after you have read it," was gone. It contained the locket and chain she had worn     about her neck, and a note containing these words:  "Take what, since you are another's, I have no  longer a right to keep. May your sky of wedded  love bend ever above you, undimmed by a single    ' cloud.               INEZ."   330      CURRER LYE. lr many days Currer felt sad and lonely, for they had been much together; but she had grown accustomed to- parting with those she loved, and her grief was: not so poignant as it would have been in days past; beside, she had much anxiety in regard to her business matters. The prospect, as far as the theatre was concerned, looked dark enough, and disaffection was rife in the -company. No money had been paid to the actors for three months, and landlords were clamor- ing for their dues. As a dernier resort, Currer's name was announced for a benefit, in the hope of drawing a house. Mr. Consuelo, who, to use his own expression, had been " snowed up," and un- able to get there in time for his engagement, ar- rived that afternoon on his way to St. Louis. To him Currer mentioned the difficulties of her position, and received no encouragement to hope that her benefit would be of any advantage to her. In the evening, when she arrived at the theatre, the actors had appointed a committee to wait upon the manager, and inform him that the curtain could not rise on the first piece unless they were paid one half, at least, of what was owing them. This was a demand that it was. utterly out of his power to meet, save with refusal, and there was consequently no performance that night.   CURRER LYE   .      331 M CHAPTER XXXVI. WHEN Ourrer reached her room, what was her amazement to find it locked, and to her inquiry for the key, receive the reply that Mr. Carson wished to see her in the parlor. He told her that the room was locked, but her wardrobe would be removed, in an hour, to the baggage repository; that she could sit with Mrs. Carson till that was done, and then might occupy the room until Monday, but no longer; therefore she must suit herself elsewhere. In vain did she represent to him how inconvenient it would be for a lady to be deprived of her wardrobe, and assure him that if he would give her time to write to her friends, he would be paid; listen to her he would not. And now, though she had borne up bravely under troubles that would have disheartened any one with a heart less brave, this seemed the crown- ing humiliation, and throwing herself upon the bed, wept long and bitterly.   832     CUBRRE   LYE. Mr. Carson's son had been for weeks .circulating injurious reports against her, until those who would have been her friends were estranged, and looked coldly upon her. He now retailed to all theq frequenters of the bar and reading-room that his father was about to turn her out of doors, and, by certain winks and knowing looks, insinuated that her misconduct was the cause of so harsh a step. In prosperity friends stand upon every side, and gird us round about," but when poverty shakes hands with us, they pass us by and look another way. So Currer found it now. Mr. Consuelo told her that he should only be too pleased to relieve her necessities, but it was not in his power; that, owing to the inclement weather, his last engagement had been a failure,  and that, consequently, he was very much straight- ened himself; if there was anything else he could do, he would cheerfully assist her. On the same day the chambermaid found a pack- age of bank notes between his mattresses, and fear- ing it had been misplaced, carried it to the office, where it was'counted, and found to amount to fourteen hundred dollars. Cuarrer smiled when she heard of it, for she now had learned another lesson, and knew how to value protestations. *                :   CURRER LYE.        333  But now the affair seemed to take a ridiculous  turn.     ,  A certain conductor on one of the numerous  trains that have their depot in W , was sitting     quietly reading the newspaper, to all appearance,   3, but nevertheless intently listening to the conversa-  tion of two youths, who were relating the story of   : Currer Lyle's troubles to another of their own  stamp, namely, a "Boy-man." -He was a rough, honest-hearted fellow, and- a great favorite with Mr. Carson, for the reason that he brought a number of guests to the house every    7  time his train came in. That night, just as Currer was about retiring, a  note was dropped over the ventilator, and, opening it, she read, "Go to sleep with your mind easy,   : it'll all be right in the morning, " and signed, "a  stranger." I The following morning his train. was to leave at daybreak, and some freight had been deposited for safe keeping in Mr. Carson's baggage room., Going to the porter, an old negro who had known him from a boy, he took him aside, and told him to show him the trunks he had -taken  from the young lady's room the previous day; but there was little need of asking, for they were three-. unusually large ones, and each marked in full,  "Currer Lyle, Theatre." There was no one up in    334      CURRER  LYE. tie house, save the bar-tender, and the trunks were carried down, and transported over the sus- pension bridge to the Ohio side of the river, while Mr. Carson was comfortably locked in the arms of "Morpheus," by the side of his interesting " vrow." Now, as Mrs. Carson had a propensity for in. quiring into everything concerning other people, she repaired, immediately after breakfast, to the baggage room, with a large bunch of keys, and fraught with the intention of inspecting Currer's wardrobe. To her consternation the trunks had disappeared. Mr. Carson repaired at once to Currer's room, and demanded an instant reply to his query of- "Where are your trunks?" She expressed her utter and entire ignorance of their whereabouts, and, in support of her asser. tion, gave him the note that had so mysteriously found its way to her room the night previous. This is a  trick between you and Briggs. Now listen to me," said he, bringing his hand down uponr the table between every other word; "give me the direction where I can find them trunks, or in one hour you go to jail. Mind that, now; I've said it, and I never fall back--" H:ere his hand missed the table, and he measured his length upon the floor I Currer could not help   CURRER LYE.        3885  laughing, for it was altogether the most ludicrous   I scene she had ever witnessed. He had fallen on his back, and in endeavoring    ! to save himself, had grasped a chair, and pulled it  down with him                     1A In his efforts to get up, his heels were thrown    . in the air, and the contortions of his fade were a   ! feast for any lover of Momus.              j When at length she had assisted him to rise, he   - roared: out- "How dare you laugh at me?" she could not help saying':  "You are so fat, and looked so funny; indeed, you must forgive me, for I1 could not help it." Scarce had half an hour elapsed ere he had pro-     cured a warrant, and two officers to serve it. One would have imagined- it was some desperado, who had been the terror of the neighborhood, that     I  they were about to arrest. They seemed heartily    ashamed of themselves as they looked at her, and : one of them approached her, evidently wishing to' excuse himself for the duty he was compelled to perform. "I'm sorry to trouble you, Miss, but you see we were sent to serve this writ, because we want to get out a fieri facias about your wardrobe, and Mr. Carson wants you to tell where it is; so we'll have -! to take you up to the jail." ,   :,/   336     CURRER LYE. At the word "jail," Currer darted past him like an arrow, and, without the remotest idea of where she shofild seek a refuge, rushed down the -back stairs. At the bottom she was accosted by a strange man, who asked her, "Where she was going?" i"Anywhere, but not to jail;- I cannot go there," was her reply. At this moment the two officers were seen at the top of the stairs, and quick as lightning he lifted her in his arms and sped across the large court- yard of the Hotel, and out into a narrow lane that led to an adjoining street, where a half-dozen hack- men stood waiting for fares. Pushing her into one of the carriages, he shouted, as he perceived her pursuers turning the corner of the lane, "Twenty dollars if you get us over the bridge without being overtaken 1" The driver sprang to the box,--crack went the whip, and the race began. Once or twice they were almost side, by side, but the chivalry of Old Virginia was not to be sullied by the imprisonment of a woman-the fates forbade it; and Currer was safely landed on the Ohio side, where, thank -to state laws, she was safe from further persecution. Mr. Consuelo had been getting the disbanded company together, andc proposed a trip to Zanes- ville, a small Ohio town, to play for a couple of   CURRER LYE.         3  37 weeks, and, if successful, they might travel farther. We suggested that Currer should lead the business, at a salary of ten dollars a week and a benefit ;- to this she assented, and thus commenced a con- nection that, in the eyes of the world, grew in time to be one of affection, rather than business. 'If or not it was of advantage to her, remains to be seen. 15    -8S8     07CURRER LYE. CHAPTER XXXVII. JOHN BRADLEy' and Charles Lyle had just re- turned from their tour, but how strangely altered was Charles  It was not his to grieve for the lost Inez, once so cherished in his heart of hearts. Change of scene had banished her from his memory, save when the letter, that contained her soul's fervid outpourings, sometimes met his eye. 'Then he thought of her as she had bade hm think;--as a dark cloud. that had for a moment dimmed his mind's page, but was now dispelled in the light of another love. Not so John Bradley. He thought of her, and her probable fate, until a shudder would pass over him; and he said, "I must, I will find her." But- all his efforts were in vain: he had sought Ier parents in the early home she had deserted but a  simple slab erected over two little mounds was the only record of two broken hearts.   CURRER LYE.        339 They slumbered there, with all their heavy bur- den of grief and care hushed beneath the green sods and fragrant flowers, that sprang up beneath the gentle breezes of their own Italian clime. Few such hearts as his could be found in the daily walks of life, filled with generous and lofty impulses, yearning for an object on which it might lavish its affection; yet its possessor had seen every tie it had ever clung to, from early manhood to his later years, shattered by the ruthless hand of fate, and had lived unloved and quite alone until he believed his mission on earth was to dis- pense his bounty to all who required it at his hands, without a thought of self. He did not admire Charles Lyle's young wife, and consequently the entire confidence that had existed between them was lost. The young husband's time was devoted almost exclusively to the imperious, exacting girl, who had been taught from childhood to look upon a husband as a necessary evil, useful, but not orna- mental; and in Charles she believed she had found what she most wished in a husband, an obedient slave. -Her mother had been related .distantly to a member of the peerage, and she was ever com plaining that "mamma was'quite averse to her marrying a man of no family, but Charhe was   340      CURRER LYE. 3UCh a dear," she quite forgot her pedigree, until ,t was all over. Inwardly " the dear," as she styled him, wished she might forget it afterwards. For this 'mental infidelity he must be forgiven, since men. as hus- bands, see with their own eyes, while as lovers they see with Cupid's, albeit he is blind. Her only aim and object in life seemed to be the admiration of the world, and all the time be- stowed upon Charles was looked upon as wasted. One or two hysterical scenes, got up for his especial benefit under the auspices ofmamma, who amused herself by bathing the patient's head and calling him a brute, entirely unworthy to possess such a treasure, warned him against ever remon. strating again, while in his heart he regretted that some one more capable-of prizing the jewel trusted to his care had not obtained it. They had not been in New York a month, be- fore she had voted everything in America vulgar and unendurable. The women, she said, were dowdy, and the men awkward and uncouth. John Bradley could not listen patiently to her constant complaints, and so abseited himself en. tirely from the house, and Charles, knowing the cause, did not persuade him to renew his visits. He was one with :whom to love some object was   CURRER   LYE.      341 so natural that he actually pined without one; and to-Currer's surprise, she one day received from him a letter, evidently written under much embarrass- ment, yet so characteristic of him, that she wept for very joy as she sat to reply to it. From that time they corresponded regularly; and understanding each other as they did, she quite forgot, in the mutual interchange of thought and feeling, that he was so much older than her- self, for he was so kind, so affectionate, at times so impassioned, that her heart-yearnings for a friend were more than  realized 'in their distant com- munion. At Zanesvile: they had announced Danlmon and Pythias for the opening night. When the curtain rose, it was very evident that a taste for the drama existed in the place, small as it was, for the house was crowded. This at least was encouraginog to the little band who, for months, had been working without remuneration, and they played with spirit, and an evident desire to do the best they could. But Currer was now to learn another lesson, which can only- be- taught by a short experience in a travelling company, that there might be much of the ludicrous blended with sentiment, and yet, to outward appearance, she must, see nothing but -.the poet's ideal creations.   342     CUR R 'R   LYE E In the second scene, between Hermion and Da- mon, a child is a prominent feature, as a great point is generally made where Damon, the strong, resolute man, bows his head and weeps over the unconscious innocent who is so soon to be left fatherless. On 'the property man devolves the task of pro- curing one, and in making out his sketch plot, he put down am6ng the curious conglomeration of articles required, " one child for Damon." On this occasion, there being no experienced person in charge of this department, the care of ' providing all the requisites was left to a boy, who attended to this through the day, and at night was lamplighter, scene-shifter, prompter,--in fact, jack of all trades. Now he might be seen wrapped in a sheet, in lieu of a toga, sitting in the Senate, " the noblest Roman of them all;" and again at the prompt desk, then carrying off chains, making a clear- in fact, he was a most ubiquitous individual, and fancied he was versed in theatricals far beyond his years. In the matter of Damon babies he was not pre- cisely posted, however; for-at night, when Mr. Consuelty had arranged his commanding figure in his draperies of purple, and walked up and down the little stage waiting for the time to ring up; he   CUBRER LYE.       843      I bethought himself of the child, and wishing to        lave its dress  arranged, called out to have it brought forward.             t What was his astonishment to see  "Bill, " the     ' precocious property man, proudly holding in air a rag-baby, which he looked upon as a triumph of  art, he having labored faithfully through the after- noon to complete it. Mr. Consuelo could not resist the propensity to laugh outright, though it certainly was provoking to find such a blunder had been made, at the elev- enth hour.           ' The actors crowded around the specimen of his handiwork, and it was quite certain that no such sensation was created that night as the rag-baby had caused. , But the indefatigable youth resolved to have a bona-fide baby the moment he found it was abso- lutely necessary; that it should not only be flesh and blood, but possess natural powers of locomo- tion. In an hour-he returned with a stout Irish woman, bearing in her arms a child whose knotty red hair was not particularly indicative of his pa- tricia-n descent. In fact, when Mr. Consuelo saw it, he said he certainly should have suspected Her- ,nion's honor, if the child were really hers.  However, in the garden scene, Currer, who had volunteered to hold the child, and sentd it on when   844-     CURRER LYE. required, observed that it had on red yarn stockl- ings; and thinking of the discrepancy in its toilet, left it for a moment to send for some white ones. Just as Damon was speaking the lines, The hour is past? I trifle with necessity Hermion, I now, indeed; must part from thee, etc., the little one, espying its mother on the other side, sitting in one of the entrances, slipped from the little stool on which Currer had placed her, and a pair of bright scarlet stockings navigated rapidy across the stage d rapidly Damon was holding Itiernion in his arms, draw- ing her gently to the garden seat, when the recep. tion which greeted his child, made him turn quick- ly to ascertain the cause. The frightened little girl stood in front of the blazingfoot-lights, un- certain which way to take; but approachng some- what closer to them than the mother thought pru. dent, she rushed frantically out,cnught it to her capacious bosom, crying, c Och! the darlin' ee cratur'll be burned up entirely! Arrab, come away, me jewel!" It is- needless to say, the curtain fell on the un- finished act amid shouts of laughter, both in front and behind the scenes; and ii 'the latter quarter, it was enjoyed the more, from the fact that Mr. Consuelo as pacing his narrow dressing-room,   CURRER -LYE.       340 swearing lustily at everything connected with the cause, calling the property boy an idiot for bring- ing it there, and Currer Lyle " an inspired lunatic with brains that required a balance-wheel" for letting it go from her until it was wanted. It did not, however, mar the good feeling of the warm-hearted residents of that thriving little town, for they crowded the houses every night for two weelks. At the expiration of that time, they started for New York, to open the Museum in that place. This was an unfortunate move; the owners of the property had been for some time in bad odor, and this was given as an excuse for the people re- fusing to patronize any performance held there, until it should change hands. They commenced, however, and the morning after their opening night, the following notice of their first attempt was given in one of the papers. V "The museum was'opened last night by a party of strolling players. "Richelieu was most horribly murdered, and Julie de Mortemar was mercilessly mouthed by Miss Currer Lyle, a novice, we should judge,--who will pardon us for giving her a piece of advice: Never to suppose for. one moment that a pretty face and a childish affectation of simplicity can be made to subserve the purpose of real talent, how-   Oj46 CURRER   LYE. ever effectiv it may be in ,nnking capital other. wise."  Never before had Currer been so disheartened as now; five nights they performed to almost empty benches, and the sixth Mr. Consuelo was to play The Stranger. Mrs. taller was a part she prided herself on playing well, but never was anything so completely turned into ridicule, as the whole piece was by every member of the company, Mr, Consuelo him. self leading the-van. In the scene with Steinfort, where the Stranger relates his unfortunate history to his friend, he commenced. the speech, and all was silent in the house until he said, "In an evil hour I left my home and came---HERE. O Lord!" said he, with a deep groan, and looking around the audi- ence, who had already taken his meaning, and had evidently a strong inclination to hiss. In the scene with Francis he said: "Francis, go into the neighboring village; you w ill there find two ducks; they are mine; bring them to me."      ig It is quite needless to say that this abruptly closed the evening's entertainment, and all future ones--under that- management,- at least. Money there was none in the treasurer's hands,   i CURRER LYE.        347 and aagain were the actors thrown out of employ- ment, without a dollar isf their pockets.. Mr. Consuelo called upon Currer, and, in a long conversation then held, she gained an insight into his character. He was emphatically a disappointed man. Believing himself the greatest actor of the age, yet unnoticed by the world, and branded as a libertine, base and unprincipled, while others of less merit occupied the position, both with the press and the, public, that his talents entitled him to, he- railed against all mankind. In his earlier years he had been the friend of the erratic Edgar A. Poe, and it was evident that he affected the morbid sensitiveness of that unfortu- nate genius, and in a great degree made his eccen- tric character his model. Said he, 'The stage? what has it degenerated to? A place for mountebanks and ilhpostors, where everything vulgar is patronized and, ap- plauded. The man who picks up the brogue and vulgarisms of the lowest class of Irish, rushes about with a stuffed stick in his hand, sings an Irish medley, and is assisted in his intellectual enter- tainment by a young lady with a Dutch cap on, who grinds a hand-organ and sings 'The Bold Privateer,' after the manner of the Dutch organ- girls to be seen any time in the lower order of bar- rooms, makes a fortune; while the matchless ere-   348      CURRER LYE. ations of Shakspere are represented to a beggarly account of empty boxed, and the hard-workinng actor, even if his intellect gain him a position after long years of toil and study, finds himself super- seded by the disgusting burlesque of Yankee character, and 'Bobbin' around!" "Then you do not approve of the delineations of Yankee character?" "Miss Lyle, I should be sorry if I had been mistaken in imaginingc you a young lady of good sense and delicate taste. Do you believe that in a country as enlightened as ours, intersected by a vast chain of railroads, bringing every small town and village in almost daily communication with the large cities, that such miserable caricatures of the female se-V can possibly exist?- Yet we find our, own countrywomen willing to cross the At- lantic and give such .an exaggeration to our too credulous English neighbors, and we read, in such leading journals as the-London Times, of the faith- ful picture of Yankee life: and customs given to the patrons of old Druly, on such and such an evening. "Upon their return they are greeted by a pro- cession and serenade, and the dupes on whom they have made an impression laugh at the American barbarians as they exist among us. "There is nothing now will ever reconcile me to the profession-.; all I ask is to obtain a sufficient   CURREBR   LYE.       349 competence to enable me to retire to some seques- tered spot away from all the world. "My whole life has been wasted; everything L have touched from a boy has turned to ashes, and I have no longer an aspiration left." Currer felt for him as he repeated the words, - Caught from some unhappy master, Whom unmerciful disaster Followed fast and followed faster, Till his songs one burthen bore; Till the dirges of his hope, the Melancholy burthen bore, Of never more-- Of never more.:' When they parted, it was with the assurance on his part that he would always give her the benefit of'his advice whenever she required it; that he would be most happy to correspond with her wherever she might be,--and again she was left alone. The next day she was waited upon by a gentle- man who represented himself as John W    , the celebrated comic actor and vocalist.  He stated his desire of getting up a benefit, for the purpose of relieving the destitute actors left in the city without means, and he wished her to volunteer her services to play for one evening. " -   350      CURRER   L YE. His programme was to include forty-two comic songs, by John W--; and John W--, at that moment, certainly looked as though forty-two glasses of brandy and water had been taken that morning, to clear his voice for the immense exer- tion demanded of him in singing the said songs. His ideas were very magnificent, but somewhat "muddled," and' Currer respectfully declined lend- ing her name for any such purpose ; perceiving as she did, that it would not be of service to those for whom it was ostensibly got up, but contribute en- tirely to the empty pockets of a confirmed drunk- ard. What money she had, she freely divided among those who needed assistance, and then started for New York to seek a new situation.  ^ .  IS  * V   CU REP LYE.  CHAPTER XXXVIII. THE Opera season had losed in New York, but it- was one long to be remembered, as having in- troduced to the habitu6s a new star in M adame Inez. Never was a more brilliant triumph than she achieved, as Lucia, on the last night; and as she appeared before the curtain at the close of the per- formance, her path was literally strewn with flow- ers by the admiring audience. She bowed in her own peculiarly graceful manner, but scarce could any one conceive that she was sensible of the hom- age bestowed upon her. There was a vacant ex- pression in the large liquid orbs, and an unnatural pallor on her cheeks, while her long hair, hanging in wild disorder around her shoulders, and min- gling with the soft folds of her white dress, made it appear as though the sorrows of Lucia were in- deed her own. There was one form there amid the throng, one   8.52     CUR1'ER LYE. that she had singled out -one never to be forgot. ten; strive as she might to crush him out from her heart -though he had taken to his bosom another -though he could go out in the wide world and forget what had been, as she herself had asked him to-she never had banished him from her affec- tion---nevefrnthe pulses of her heart, where he was so blended with throbbings, never had he been parted for one moment. She had seen him that night,/and by his side was one who had the right to say to him, "I am thine." ... She had never sinned, and was worthy to bear the name of him who once poured his soul out at her feet, and asked her to be his.  -Be  had seen her too, and watched her with agony, as she portrayed the despair, the misery of Lucia.  . He knew that he had not been. forgotten--that her .peace was' wrecked forever. All the old-time passion. agitated him; he felt that they must meet, that he must speak with her once more, and on the morrow he sought her presence.  She was quite alone, and for a time they both were calm; but at length he spoke to her of his marriage, and told her he was wretched. a Who shall blame her, if, when he sat beside her   CURRER LYE..       853 ." as he had been wont to do in days past away, that   : guilty thoughts came like winged messengers of evil to point her to perdition?            i Charles Lyle was but pman,-who shall dare ar-    - rogate to themselves the right, to chide him that   X he yielded I the transport of being once more with her, and spoke to her of love?          \ He did not realize that in her history there could be a blot that should forever banish from his mind the respect he once entertained for her, and with-' out which no love could ever be holy. He offered her again, as he supposed, the pure feelings of the olden time; but as she listened, her pride came to her aid, and even as he sat with- streaming eyes, and his supplicating tones piercing her ears, she clasped her hands,-and prayed for strength to send him away from her--to do her duty,- nor walk again from out the narrow path wherein it lay. "Do not say me- nay, Inez--I am pouring out my soul in- these few words; listen to them, as in their earnestness they plead my cause "All that man can be to woman I will be to you, now and in time to come, by all my man- hood's honor. Trust me, and if I fail, may I for- feit the right to man's esteem." "And is it thus you would counsel me? Thinkl you, because I once have fallen from woman's high. and glorious estate, that I would thus blight the   85.4     CURRER LYE. happiness of a young and trusting wife, and lose my hopes of peace hereafter? No, Charles; let no passion bear you on to so mistake one who, though unfortunate, is'still repentant. "Could I now look once more upon my mother's face, and bow me beneath my father's hand, as he laid it upon my head and blessed me, I would en- dure an eternity of misery, and think I but part. repaid the priceless boon. - I see them now, sleep- ing or- aking-see them as broken-hearted they passed away to the quiet grave in our own happy valley, and'know that it was I who sent them there before their time-I who heaped shame upon their name, till the world pointed at them the finger of scorn. With all this before, me ever, I can never, never sin again. Mine has been a fiery or- deal; I have passed it, but it has left a desolation over all my life, and made me loathe existence." "I have long since forgiven you," he replied, "and the past need never be referred to between us.  "I never dared to hope for your forgiveness, but I looked above, to Him who is ever merciful to those who seek Him." "A least I may see you again, if only once." At that moment a strange gleam of light shone in her eyes, and she gave him her permission to visit her while she remained in the city. ^H   CURRER LYE.         355 For some time she had been entreateld .by a wealthy Spaniard to bestow on him her hand. Don Felix de Mena was the only surviving de- scendant of an old Castilian family, and inherited all the'strong passions of his native land. He loved Inez,-not with the purity which makes a dis- interested devotion, but he was dazzled by her beauty; and when she met his proposition to make her his wife with indifference, not unmixed with scorn, his pride was stung, and he determined to win her. When she gave Charles Lyle her consent to his request, that he should see her again, she resolved to place between him and temptation a gulf never to be crossed. That night she was dressed to sing at a private concert, and was adjusting her mantle when Felix was announced. Again he offered her his hand. This time she did not refuse, but she told him a tale of misery and shame, of broken-hearted and dishonored names; and when it was ended, revealed to him that she was the guilty one. "Would you wed me now?" she asked, with a cold, stern look. "The past is buried beneath the waves that break upon the eternal shores of time; with its *      r 'Sat'*   356      CBURRER LYE. dead memories I have nought to do. What you are, I 1cnow; what you have been, I ask not." "Reflect upon it, and when you have decided, tell mrae." He knew she did not give him  one tender thought. He Cared not for that, but claimed her for his wife, that he might gratify his pride- that .he might be her tyrant. In five days they were married; and on the sixth, Inez de Tressilli .stood upon the deck of a vessel and watched the fast receding shores, till sky- and ocean seemed to meet, and felt the last trial that could ever, wring her heart was past- that henceforth it should be congealed to ice, nor know emotion more. -a, Xi  .    C-URRER LYE.       357 ' CHAPTER    XXXIX. WHEN Currer arrived once more in New York, it- was to find her name, connected with Mr. Con. suelo's in a manner that brought the indignant flush to her cheek. John Bradley -was the first to come to her and warn her against an association that must ulti- mately blast her reputation for ever. To her inquiry, as to where the danger lay, he replied: "In this; he is looked upon as an out- cast from society, without one honorable princi- ciple in his breast, to raise him above the level of a villain. He repaid the countless favors be- stowed upon him by a generous and confiding man, in robbing his wife of her virtue, and brand- ing his proud name with dishonor, thus rend- ing asunder the ties of domestic happiness and peace which bound two loving hearts together. If this be not reason sufficient to induce you to abandon all communication with him, I may never ,-   358      C URRER  LYE. presume to intrude my advice upon you here- after." She knew he was her best friend, and resolved to be guided by him in all things,-especia]]ly in this, for it was her own conviction, that no lustre could be added to her name by a farther inter- course with any one so obnoxious to every right- minded person. At once she addressed him, and explained her views; and from that moment he was her bitter enemy. When under the influence of liquor, as was fre- quently the. case, he spoke of her in public bar- rooms in terms too vile for repetition,; and short- iy after, when an, engagement called her to the Southern cities, where he had preceded her, she found public opinion had already decided against her. Fortunately, she might number among the noble hearts in the profession, Mr. C , and his lovely wife, in whose circuit she was then engaged. Amid aspersions, and all that could tend to op- press her, they clung to her until their countenance and regard had raised her above his reach-to a height that he might gaze at, but never attain. In one season, under the auspices of these true friends, she had taken a proud position, not only   CURRER LYE.         359 as an artist, but in the hearts of the Southern people. Surrounded by delightful associations, and reali- zing the great appreciation of her genius, her ambi-. tion received a new impetus, her pen became to her a new source of pleasure, and her name was soon familiar to the literary world. As a sister, she had long corresponded with Ar- thur Edgerton, and from him had learned of his wife's declining health. Her sympathies had been with him, and all the consolation she could offer .had been tenderly given. One day a letter was handed lier; its black seal bore his motto, "   .,"and she instinctively knew, ere she had opened it, that he was alone in the world. He informed her, that to his care had been left an infant daughter, whose mother had passed away ere her eyes had rested on her babe. Currer wept for him in his loneliness, but only as for a brother's affliction she might weep; and when in a few months he sought her to speak of his desolate home, and the babe bereft of. amoth- er's care, she knew that all the old feelings were banished from her heart; and, when he asked her to be his, she said: (* Yours as a sister, yes;-but as a wife, never."   360      CURRER 'LYE. Not long after she had rejected him, John Brad- ley imagined himself more lonely than he had ever been before, and began to trace a great resemblance between her and her mother. She had so long learned to lean upon him for advice and assistance-had so looked into his nature and learned its nobility, that he seemed young to her. She did'not see-that his hair was silvered, and his figure more portly than it had been; nor was she surprised when he said to her one day, that he could not part with her again, and asked her " to pity the sorrows of a poor old man." He did not ask in, vain. She pitied them; and they ceased toc be. The morning she leaned upon his manly arm, and gazing into his face with a look of trusting love, called him husband. Charles Lyle was the father of two lovely boys, and, through them his home was brightened into perpetual sunshine.    i Like all married couples, he and his wife had fallen into each other's ways, and were as com- fortable as, the generality of husbands and wives, to say the least of it. And Inez de Tressili, where was she? The wide waste of waters that rolled in billows mountain high above the ill-fated ship inI which she sailed, alone eould tell her resting-place.   CURRER  LYE.      361 Far out upon the boundless ocean, where none could hear tihe wild shriek of those who, without a moment's warning, were hurried into eternity, they sank to rise no more, till the sea shall give up its dead at the last dread hour. Marian Sley lived in ease upon her ill-gotten gains;. and if to feel old age steal on us day by day, drawing us nearer to the last refuge earth can give. and know ourselves friendless-and unloved- no ties to sweeten the bitter cup of sorrow, of which we all must taste-be 'happiness, then Ma- rian Sley was happy. Little of romance is there in the history I have given; much of sad reality, and many a thought that will stir the chords of memory in many a heart, wherein the voice of truth shall find an echo.      -            , If-it may to one sad hour of the life of any human being, prove a messenger to banish care, I am repaid, nor ask I more. -My book is ended. THE- END.   '".^ % o   This popular book, by the author of "Lewis Arundel" and "Frank Fairlegh," is now ready, bound in one volume, cloth, price $1. "ORIM-ER LITTLEGOOD. CHAPTER     I. WHEREIN OUR HERO MAKES HS BOW AND COMES INTO HS PRO- PERTY. "AND all the rest, residue, and remainder of my real and personal estate, whatsoever and wheresoever, I give, devise, and bequeath unto my dear son, Loriner, his heirs, executors, and administrators, for ever.' Such were the words which Mr. Bosher, attorney-at law, read out with due solemnity in the little' drawing room of Verbena Cottage; near the well-known town of Muddleford, in the coun- ty of Surrey. Mr. Bosher always threw extraordinary emphasis into the reading of a will, especially when the document had been drawln by himself. When he announced, a large legacy, the words were very slowly and distinctly drawn out, and a little tremulousness of the voice at the same time thrown in, to impress you with the deep respect he entertained for the benevolence of the departed. A bequest to himself produced a slight huskiness, and the necessity of pullingc out a very white and voluminous pocket handkerchief to be applied th the cor- ners of his eyes. The cutting off of any scapegrace or offend. ing relation with a shilling, was delivered with thrilling severity of tone, The provision for " my dear wife" brought forth a tenderness of utterance almost unprofesgional; and the final   6       LORIMER LITTLEGOOD. wind-up of all the rest and residue,v' came with a- force and dignity of manner that nothing but long practice could have' Pfoduced. Mr. Bosher was a florid and stout gentleman with a bald head, which shone as .brilliantly as if carefully polished every morning with a furniture brush. He was always dressed in black, and on important occasions -lile the present he wore a white neckcloth several inches high, and swathed round his neck in a manner that seemned to threaten suffocation. Such watch- seals and keys as 'dangled from Mr. Bosher's fob are rarely seen in these degenerate days, which is to be lamented, seeing that they are wonderfully imposing. In character, Mr. Bosher was unassailable. Everybody (that is, the. everybody of Muddleford and its vicilnity) knew him and trusted him. His private office was, from floor to roof, all round the four walls, crowded with japanned tin boxes holding clients' papers and title-deeds, and labelled "Jonathan Pod- gers, Esq.," The Pumpkin Estates," "Tompkins's Trustees,' &c. &c. Everybody--the everybody aforesaid--left a legacy, large or small, to '"My friend John Bosher, Esq., as a slight token of my esteem for him, and my appreciation of his pro- fessional services." Everybody employed Mr. Bosher as his attorney; Mr. Bosher knew everybody's affairs much better thant everybody himself did, and Mr. Bosher kept his knowl- edge locked in his own breast as safely as his clients' papers were locked in the tin boxes. Such was the gentleman who had just read the concluding sen- tences of the will of the late Mr. Littlegood, a mild, quiet man who, lhaving an independence, and being fond of botany and geology, fishing and floriculture, had retired to Verbena- Cottage, near Muddleford, ,some three-and-twenty Years previously, immne- diately after his marriage. He had been dead a week when our tale opens, leaving a widow and two children--a daughter aged 19, and named Jessie; and a son just 21, who was christen- ed Lorimer. Mr. Littlegood had first of all provided for his   COMES   INTO HS FO   RTUNE  .    7 w  ife; then 4left 2,000 to his d aughter ; and the rest of his property to his son n- The widowed mother and her two   children were the onl persons present in  the little drawin- room  besides the at-. to  . r. Bosher had told them that no one else need atted -and of course MR. Bosher knew all about it, for he had drawn -the will himself, and kept it in one of the before-m eln- tioned tin boxes, labelled "Thomas   Littlegood, Esq., tl death carried the testator off teristic of Mrs. Gelntleness seemed to be the pro minent characteristic of emrs. Littlegood, judging .from her appea rance . F acility of tenlper and a kind of bodily and mental inactivity, which is considered highly virtuous in people who are above the reach of want, made her a weak character. Energy was as foreign to her as courage to a hare; while anything absolutely wrong she knew nothing about except from hearsay. She was an thiall e neua-  iMrs. Littlegood wept as the attorney concluded his-task; wept placidly and gently, and yet sincerely. "H He was so good," she murmured.      a "Excellent inan, my dear-madam,' assented the attrney-- "excellent man; a great conslation to know that. Mrs. Littlegood sighed. "He was the best of husbands and of fathers, and I hope," she /ontinued, "Loriner 'll be exactly like him." Mr. Bosher always wished to assent to a proposition when he could; but whether in this instance he found it difficult to indulge in the hope expressed, or impossible to believe in its realization, it is not for us to decide. Certain it is thathe only cleared his throat and said, "Ahem!" Lorimer Littlegood looked at Mr. Bosher and then looked at his mother, and then looked at his sisters and lastly took a slight glance at the mantelpiece-glass. Apparently, Mr. Lori- mer Littlegood was not quite certain whether he was expected to say anything or whether he could decently tell such a fib as   "ORIMER LITTLEGOOD. to join in the maternal hope. He had liked his father ver much; few men had such an indulgent "governor;" he ri sPiected the old gentleman's goodness of heart, serenity of ten per, and innocence of pursuits; but' he did not exactly desir to give up his own tastes fol those of his departed parent ; he die not wish to become-what Sydney Smith calls a " kind of ho]l vegetable" any more than to exchange his own luxuriant curl and bright blue eyes for the scratch wig alid silver-rimme( spectacles of his father. "Mr. Lorimer will no doubt have all the steadiness and sobriety of character that we admired so much in his father, said the lawyer, to fill up the pause; 'though he felt anything but satisfied with himself for telling such an untruth; for Mr. Bosher entertained strong suspicions that Lorimer was likely to be the very reverse of his father in those important points. Considering that Lolilner had been once rusticated whileat Oxford, and had usually spent five times his allowance, the lawyer may perhaps be pardoned for his suspicions. Lorimer muttered something about "doing his best," but looked fidgetty; Mrs. Littlegood glanced fondly and trustfully at her son; the attorney again clearned his throat, and, swal- lowing the remains of a glass of sherry which he had been sip- piDg, he proceeded to make his bow, shake each of the three inmates of the room by the hand, and take his departure from Verbena Cottage. We have said something about Mrs. Littlegood and her son, but nothing about her daughter. And yet Jessie deserves a little description, though we feel some diffidence in attempting it; for Jessie Littlegood was not one of those every-day per- sons of whom you can say that they are pretty or plain, clever or stupid, .amiable or ill-tempered. There were so many ap- parently conflicting elements in her character, that it required some power of analysis to determine their relative proportions and strike the'balance between--not the good and evil, foir o, positive evil she had perhaps none--but of the truly lovable   COMES INTO HS FORTUNE.          9  and the less amiable qualities. Pope, for whose opinions we have the highest respect, was nevertheless a bad judge (because a   prejudiced one) of women, and never wrote so silly a line as- '"Most women have no characters at all." Our own experience and study of human nature teach us the very reverse-that there is more variety of character among women than in our own sex. But as we may be at variance on this point with some philosophers, and perhaps many of our readers, we will not attempt to enter into a disquisition on the subject. We may at least record the fact that; Jessie was a girl of decidedly original character. She had inherited none of her father's placidity or her mother's indolence. Whence came her quick temper, her strength of. affection, her shrewd sense, yet her deep poetry of feeling, who shall say? or why, instead of her father's blue eyes and light hair, and her mother's grey eyes and hair of no color at all, she had those dark, lus- trous, liquid orbs full of passion and of intellect, and those tresses only a few shades removed' from black? Thought, feel- ing, and energy were the characteristics which even a super- ficial observer might have read in her face. What else there was-how much of good, and noble, how much of -perilous and passionate-the progress of our story will develop. A tall and graceful figure, and regular features, with such eyes and hair as we have mentioned, made Jessie a beautiful girl-one that you woiuld turn to look at a second time, wherever you might chance first to see her. So thought Lorimer as he gazed for some time on his sister after Mr. Bosher had quitted the room. Mrs. Littlegood soon left them alone. "She will fret to death, I fear," said Lorimer. "No," said Jessie; "not so, my dear brother. Her dis- position is too calm and equable for you to fear that; it is pent- up grief that kills, not that which gushes forth in copiofus tears."' "Perhaps so," replied Lorimer. 1*   10      LOREIMER LITTLEGOOD. He was not much accustomed to think for himself, and was content always to adopt the sentiments of'his sister so 10ng as they did n1(t run coltr arly to his personal vishes. "orimnaer, d(" y"u li*ea I to live hel'e?" asked Jessie, after a pause. "Eh?--Well, really, my dear girl, 1 have not thought about it yet; but, now you mention it, I suppose not. You see t have no rural tastes, except hunting and shooting; and oe can only follow those at certain times o' the year. So I dare say I shan't live here." "What do you think of doing?" asked Jessie; " shall you follow a profession?" "I don't think I shall; one does not feel the necessary stimulus when one's wants are provided for; don't you think "Perhaps," said, Jessie, but very doubtingly. "I want to see life," continued Lorimer. - "In  ' what way?" asked Jessie, most innocelntly. "'Pon my- soul, I don't linow how to answer you," replied Lorimer, after a pause; ', what I mean is, that I don't know enough of the world. I want to mix with men of all classes --knock abobt a little-don't you understand ', "The description is not a very precise one, my dear Lori- mer," said Jessie, with a half melancholy smile; " but I think I understand it a little. You mean, that as you have tasted of some dissipation  n a small -scale at Oxford, you would, now that you are master of yourself and a small fortune, like to try it on the larger scale of London? Aml righht?" "No, hang it, not exactly that.  Women always fancy that seeing life is being dissipated--that awful word, which is gen erally a bughear of their own or their lama's raising." "Perhaps I have strange notions on these subjects," said Jessie, scarcely noticing her brother's protest. "I believe that if we follow the straight line of duty in our own station, what- ever that may be, we see all we need of what you call life;   COMES INTO HS FORTUNE.         " ! and that those who step aside to see more of it, may occasion- ally be wiser in one sense-but are seldom happier-than their fellows. However, my dear brother, I don't expect a sister's tongue to turn you aside from your purpose. I only hope you may find the result of your search more conducive to your happiness than I anticipate. And now, Lorimer dear, I won't preach any more. God bless you, my brother, and shield you from harm! I must go to manma--I don't like her to be alone." Next day, Mr. Lorimer Littlegood proceeded to Ball on Mr. Bosher. The attorney received him with cordiality and the respect due to a client. "What I particularly wish you to understand, my dear sir," said he, " is the exact position of your own affairs. I dare say you are not quite acquainted with your father's property." "I scarcely know anything about it." "Exactly so,'" continued Mr. Bosher. "Well, first of all, there are six houses in Miuddleford, which produce 306 per annunl.  Then there is a small firm at Whippenham, which lets for 1S0 a year. There is a sum of 3,000 on mortgage of Lord Crackley's estate, at 4 per cent.; that brings 120 a year. And then there are some shares in the railway here, which at the present dividend produce 245. Then there is exactly 1,000 a year dividends from 3 per cent consuls. All this is exclusive- of the little landed property settled on your mother, and the 2,000 charged on itfor your sister. So that, you see, your income is now 1,851 per annum."' "It is more than I expected," said Lorimer. "It would be absurd for me to go to the bar: don't you think so?" "Decidedly," replied Bosher; and he did think so, though for very different reasons from those of his young client. "IMay I ask what you do think of doing?" he said. "I want to see life, you know," replied Lorimer. "Exactly so; travel, I presume?" "No at least, not just yet. - I think I shall run up to town and look out a snug little place to live in; and join a club; and go into society, and so on. You understand ."   -- -- ... ., ,y V V , 'sEntirely," said the lawyer; and again he spoke the truth. B By the by," said Lorimer, "I owe about four hundred at Oxford. I suppose I can raise that without much trouble?" "I shall be happy to place it to your credit at- the bank here to-day," answered the attorney.  "Thank you, thank .you," said Lorimer, very heartily. "Do you wanlt me to sign anything?"  "Not yet," replied Mr. Bosher-; , and if you excuse me for giving you the advice, I'd recommend you not to sign anything you can help. You'll find, when you're seeing life, that there are some friends who are always anxious to possess one's auto- graphs-on little stamped slips of paper." "Ia, f ha!" said Lorimer.  Yes, I know something about that sort of thing. Good day." And he left the office. "Capital fellow, old Bosher," he said to himself as he walked homewards. ' .He'll go to the deuce," muttered the attorney when left alone; " and my impression is that he won't even keep to the high road to get there, but take an unusually short cut to reach it. We shall see!" '   CHAPTER    II - THE PECKS. MRS. PECK was rocking the cradle, and Mr. Peck was smoking his pipe. The cradle contained the fifth little Peck which the good wife had presented to her husband. And per- fectly contented with the presents he had received looked Mr. Peck, as he puffed out small clouds of tobacco-smoke, and al- ternately glanced at his wife and- his sleeping baby. Very happy also looked Mrs. Peck, as she watched the little one, and turned now and then a smile of loving satisfaction towards her husband.  Mr. Peck was, in size, next door to a giant. He stood six feet and we don't know how many inches more in his stockings; that is to say, when he, stood upright, which was very seldom. He had very broad shoulders, very large hands, and enormous feet; but a head small enough for a much more moderate- sized man. It was a round, compact, bullet-shaped head, with crisp curling hair growing thickly over it. But it was not a vicious-looking head: on the contrary, the expression of Mr. Peck's face was that of perfect placidity and good nature. You were not likely to mistake him for a genius; still less for a ruffian. He wore a suit of brown corduroy familiar to the eyes of all railway travellers; for Peck was a porter on one of the principal lines. Mrs. Peck was alnost as remarkable for her diminutive size as her husband for the reverse. She was small in height, and small in every way-small features, small hands, and small feet. Indeed, so small was she, that it was currently  believed   14     LOR1MER LITTLEGOOD. that Mr. Peck had acquired his perpetual stoop by continually ]elhing down to whisper soft tales of love in her ear, during their days of courtship. Mr. Peck gave you the idea of a lazy good-natured giant; not that he was actually idle, but he had a ponderous way of- doing everything, even to the lifting of a tea-cup, that impressed one with a notion of slowness. Mrs. Peck, on the other hand, was as lively as a little bird, hopping about the room, and doing half a dozen things at once, with the most perfect ease and vivacity. They had been married about six years, and the fifth little Peck in the cradle bore testimony to the rapidity with which Mrs. Peck added to the population returns of the Registrar-Generga; It was an evening in April, and a cheerful fire was burning in thegrate.  There needed to be something cheering indoors, for the weather outside was wretched enough. The rain came pouring down in that determined style which makes it seem a type of infiility. Who can watch the steady, heavy-streams from the pea-soup colored clouds, that are clouds no longer, but Part of the atmosphere itself, and believe that it will ever leave off? Chilly and damp feels everything to the touch dreary and miserable and dirty looks every living thing in the streets; monlotonous and wearying sounds the incessant pattering on the window. "Job's very late, and it's an awful night to be out in," ob- served Mrs. Peck, as she looked at a little Dutch clock that hung over the dresser, and saw that it pointed to nine o'clock. "I e's old enough to take care of himself, Betsey," said Mr. Peck; "and a   little rain won't hurt him." "I hope he'll get the situation," continued the wife: ",it's a sad thing for a  lad of eighteen not to be earning his own living." "Well, it ain't his fault,poor fellow," said the husband. "he did earn it till that there Binks became Bankrupt; and Binks owns that Job'as as good a stable-boy as ever he had."   THEs refcEurs.         15 "He's a good lad, I know, Tom," replied Mrs. Peck: " and I'm sure I love him as your brother; and. it's because he is your brother that I'm so anxious about him. I hope he'll al- ways be steady." "Oh! he'll do," rejoined the giant, who was of a comfort- able disposition, contented to take things as they came, and never trouble his little round head with the anticipation of evils that might never happen. Peck was a philosopher in his way. A slight interruption to the conversation now took place, by Peck No. 5 in the cradle waking up and fancying that he was being defrauded of his proper share of nutriment. His dis- satisfaction was expressed in the usually forcible infantile fashion of screaming, as though ten thousand pins were running into him, while his mother cried, "There, there, there, dear little fellow ;' and his father looked dike a politician of the Man- chester schooD anxious for peace at any price. "I think I heard a knock, Tom," cried the,wife, as soon as she could make her voice audible above the baby's yells: " per. haps it's Job." Mr. Peck went and opened the door, and admitted, not the expected Job, but a neighbor with a dripping umbrella. "Why, it's Mr. Weazel, I declare!" exclaimed Mrs. Peck. Who'd have thought of seeing you on such a night as this?"' " It is an unpleasant evening, certainly,?' replied Mr. Weazel, shaking hands with her and then taking a seat; " and that's partly the reason why I came, for I thought you might be dull, and I'd got a little news to tell you." The speaker was a sharp-featured, small man, with bright grey eyes, and an unquiet, perpetually-twitching mouth. His age was apparently about five-and-forty, but might have been less, as he was evidently of that nervous kind of disposition that never gives the body a fair chance. 4' And what's the news?" asked Mrs. Peck, who generally conducted three-fourths of the conversation, as her husband was a man of few words.   "ORIMER LITTLEGOOD. "You recollect Mr. Littlegood, don't you?" said Weazel. - The gentleman that lived at Verbena Cottage, when I was in service at Muddleford T" asked Mrs. Peck. "Yes.- Well, he's dead-been dead these six months?" said Weazel. u"You don't. mean that!' exclaimed Mrs. Peck, as if the idea of any one dying was something remarkably novel and in comprehensible: " poor fellow!" "He's dead and buried," said Weazel: and as he had all ready told her that Mr. Littlegood had been dead six months, it-is probable that the good woman would have conjectured that he had also been buried by this time. "He was rich, wasn't he?" asked Mrs. Peck. "Ah! that's it," answered Weazel, looking mysterious and extremely disagreeable at the same time. "He was rich; but how did he get his riches?" "I'nmsura I don't know.: he didn't do anything wrong, did he?" she asked. "No: he didn't, perhaps; but his-father did:" and Weazel looked more mysterious than ever. '( Goodness me! you don't mean it!" answered Mrs. Peck, with a vague feeling of terror, as if she were going to hear a ghost-story. "Burked anybody?' asked Tom, joining the conversation for the first time. JI L"No--not that," replied Weazel, contemptuously; for he despised Mr. Peclk's intellectual powers, as much as he envied him his bodily strength. "He was..a lawyer, and he got hold of property he'd no 'right to; and he warn't the only lawyer mixed up in it; and the other one's alive now ; and I know the man who ought to have the property; and I've been finding out all about it these six years; and I've got nearly all the proofs." It must not be supposed that Mr. Weazel' delivered this speech right off as we have written it. He only gave a sen-   THE PE7CKS.  tence at a time, and paused for half a minute between each one to observe the effect upon his hearers. Tom Peck took it very quietly-it did not concern him, and he didn't care any thing about it. Bu   t M rs  . Peck, p artly from having often seen the late Mr. Littlegood, and p artly from 5being of a quick and sym-' pathetic natu're, felt greatly interested . She also felt rather in awe of Mr. Weazel, and that was precisely the feeling thatsr. Weazel  was always  anxious to i nspire. It is astonishing how sharp little men love to excite respect, and even dread. " Is  your friend a good mar. l" - she asked, after a pause. "N o  he's a  east," candidly replied Weazel. " Mr. Littlegood was not  a bad  man, I believe; least-ways, I alway s heard him spoken well of at Muddleford," observed Mrs. Pec    k.lr                                     s " I dare say he was well enough for a haristocrat," sa Weazel, whose dislike made him aspirate thedetested-nam e. " Don't  you think, then," suggested Mrs. Peck, very mildly, "that it would be better to leave things as they are  It can't be the fault of poor rs. L tlegoo nor Miss Littlegood, nor I. the fault of poor Mrs. Lttla ego Master Lorimer, tliat the grandi ther got the money wrongly; and as they've been taught t consider it's theirs, and always been used to all the comforts of life, it would be a shocking thing to turn them out of all their property; don't you think so'                 ..    ,__.,,  ..o,,rPri Weazel, with the  "I've nothing to do with tna, ma ,,  a... air of a Rhadamanthus. 'LI  want            y e    an to " But you say your friend's  bad man  Do you me get him his property directly ." , No," replied Weazel.  " I haven't got all the proofs yet; and the worst of it is, I don't know where my lazy beast of a friend is." Mrs. Peek was glad to hear that, but did not say so. I tell you what I think," said Mr. Peck: aid as he seldom communicated his thoughts, both Weazel and Mrs. Pectlis tened. "I think you'd better leave. this affair alone.; because,   -O      LOKRIJvu iMER LITTLEGOOD. do you see, if Mr. Littlegood or whoever it is that has tl money now, gets done out of it by you, of course he'll sett accounts with you." "  How?" asked Weazel. "Break your neck," replied Peck. "Oh, I dare say! we live under the protection of the law and those that commit ferocious assaults are punished accor( ingly'. "I'd chance that," said Peck, quietly: "and I dare say ; will." Weazel sneered; but Weazel felt far from comfortable Cunning little men are not often blessed with physical courage Another knock at the door was now heard, and this time i turned out to be Job himself. "Well, Job!" cried Mrs. Peck. 'I thought you was lost.' "Nothing nigh it, sister-in-law," answered Job. "Have you got the situation, Job?" asked Mrs. Peck, anxiously. "All right, sister-in-law; I'm booked, safe enough. but ain't he a rum un?" and Job grinned. "Who?" a"Why, my master as is to be; he's the rummest fellow ever I see," answered Job. Job was-a miniature edition of his brother. He had the same round head and crisp curling hair : he had the large feet and large hands also; but he was short and sturdy in build. The only thing remarkable about his face was his enormous mouth, which, when he laughed, and Job was almost always laughing, seemed literally to extend from ear to ear. "I'll tell you all about him," said Job, looking, however, rather doubtingly towards Weazel, whom he evidently neither trusted nor liked, though poor Job was too simple a fellow, to know why. "First of all, he's dressed like a Chinee, in a long silk gown with flowers all over it; and a little round flowery 'cap on his head; and flowery shoes on his feet; and a smoking   1J. X1 J v I Ls .      .l LLL Lr         an XJroundJ thing in his mouth that's got a tail all curled round and round like the boar-constructor in little Tom's book (only it ain't so big,). and it fits into a great glass thing like a bell, standing on the floor. But he smokes it, 1 can tell you; for I see the smoke conming out of his mouth." Here Job paused a little for breath, and then went on. "Says he to me, 'What's your name?' and I told him, 'Job Peck.' Then he says, 'How old are you?' and I says, ' Eighteen turned.' And then he says, 'Can you fight?'" ' Gracious me!" cried*Mrs. Peck; "what's that'to do with horses?" "' Because,' says he," went on Job, 'we may get into rows sometimes, and you'll have to take your own part;' and so I tells him, ' I ain't afraid of one of my own size and weight- nor a bigger one neither.' Then says he, 'Stand up and have a round;' and he squares up at me, and I at him, and he knocks me over in a jiffey; and I gets up laughing; and he says, "That 'll do for the present,' and I thought so too. Then says he, ' Can you tell fibs without blushing and looking stupid?' and I answers that l've'never tried; and he says, he's 'afraid I've been very badly brought up." "He ought to .be ashamed of himself," cried Mrs. Peck, in- dignantly : "you've been very well brought up, Job--that you have; and you should have told him, that though you're poor you're holiest--" "All right, sister-in-law," said Job, who knew the torrent of eloquence that was coming. "I did begin something of that sort, and he cries out, ' Oh yes, I know all about that-it's in all the melodramas-nlever mind, my lad, I didn't mean to hurt your feelings; so if you like to come on Monday, you may- it's 20 a year wages, and three suits of livery-will that do?' So you see," cried Job, triumphantly, "he's a trump, though he is such a rum un." "Did he say any more?" asked Mrs. Peck, pacified by the engagement and the wages, and yet not quite at ease about the moral character of Job's master.   ;/20      LORIMBE   LITILEGOOD. "No; just as he'd said what I tell you, a man came to bring him the ugliest bull-dog I ever see: so I went away, and in the hall I saw another'man ;waiting to see him with a white monkey, which he told me was a reg'lar curiosity, and he knew he'd get a- fifty pound note out of the governor for him- specially as it was cruel vicious." "What's his name, Job?" asked Mr. Weazel.  , , "What? the- monkey's?" "No; your new master's." "Oh, I've got it down here in print," said Job, producing a card from his pocket. "Mr. Lorimer Littlegood," read Weazel. "Lor 2" exclaimed Mrs. Peck. -Weazel grinned-shook hands with his friends, and went away; **  -StS v      i :* se*   "ORI-MER, EN GARBOO N1 -CHAPTER III. "ORIMBR, en garbpon. " RIVERS!" "Yes, sir." "The hookah, and a cup of coffee.' ": Yes, sir." The   speakers were Mr. Lorimer Littlegood and his valet. The former was lounging on the most luxurious of sofas, in a Persian dressing-gown of rich colors and ample dimensions. The beautiful little Louis Quatorze time-piece on  the mantle- shelf pointed to twelve o'clock, the table was spread with pre- parations for a tasteful breakfast, and the whole air of the apartment bore witness to the habits of its occupant. It was a moderate sized room--rather small than otherwise -but furished a moderastyle the most extravagant and the most fanciful. Every article it contained was perfect of its kind ; but there was a variety in the charater of things selected, that puzzled you to decide whether the owner of them as ost of pa ueittmalre, astudent, a sporting-man, or a rake. There oa petitmaitre, a student, a          al collee were little gems of Sevres china worthy of the Bernal collec tion; books of great variety and muzzlvalue, side by side with the last French novels; hunting-whips, fox's brushes and muzzles, boxing-gloves and fencing foils; French paintings and statu ettes, more truthful and beautiful than chastely delcate; eer- schaum and china pipe-bowls, rare snuff-boxes, medals and medallions, ancient coins, and beautiful vases full of the sweet- est and freshest flowers.     evidently chosen with a As for the mere upholstery, it was evidently chosen wit a   ^ :22'E ,     !   LITTLEGOOD. view to ifeet ease and comfort. Tile exact shade of green which at*,rd the mhost complete repose to the eye, was the prevailing ,' color; every chair was a lounging-chair, though perfectly differ6nt from its neighbor; there were not too many mirrors on the walls, and very little gilding; while just suf- ficient light was iadmitted through lthe curtains to imake the apartment cheerful, without producing a glare. The obsequious valet brought the lhoolah and the coffee, and Mr, Lorimer Littlegood sipped the one and puffed away at the other. . He was slightly altered in his personal appearance in the six months that had -elapsed since his falther's death. His profusion of brown curling hair, dark-blue ej es, and well- shaped face, clean shaven, except on the upper lip, where grew a smalland mpst carefully trained moustache, made him what most ybung ladies would call decidedly handsome. At first glance, however, you would imagine that there was a vacancy in the expression of his countenance; but if you watched it carefully you might see that the vacancy was not real, but an assumed listlessness, which is very generally adopted by the juvenile members of dandyism in the present generation. A phrenologist would observe ample indications of sufficient in- tellectual powers, good moral feelings: and no great excess of animal passids. . A physiologist would give a similar esti: mate of his character ; but phrenologist and physiologrist both admit, that when any single quality of the mind is constantly and specially called into play, it becomes the prominent feature of the character and absorbs a dozen otherwise counteracting influences. Unfortunately, Mr. Lorimer Littlegood was now under the special guidance of that quality which is the cause of at least three fourths of the sins of the world--vanity. Lorimer had followed out the intentions he announced to. Mr. Bosher. He had come to London-taken a set of hland- some chambers in the neighborhood- of Piccadilly--furnished them as we have seen-purchased four horses and a little yacht for the summer season-joined a fast club-and, in a word,   "ORIMERJO ,  E  N ZIRONC N     23  o Pa wt         e launchedl out rather extensively for a man with 1,850 a-year. Mr. Littlegood was still puffing his hookah, when twp young men sauntered into his room in the free-and-easy style of inti- m  ate friends.                  fin "Well  , old fellow, how are you . " cried one, who w as a fine bearty-looking m an, with a touch of the Hibernian accent. "t tow are you, Littlegood l' said the other one also-a lean, light-hared, lanky youth, who appeared as if hewanted taking to pieces and rebuilding, so badly was he put together. "Slightlg seedy," was Mr. Littlegood's reply to both ques- tioners-it being absolutely essential to everyyoung mans successLh ]andyism that he should be seedy every day; or, at all events, at any h our before te n in te evening. People who have alything to do cannot afford to be in a derepid state of health till the evening's champagne has warnled them into life and activity, and therefore, ia order to distinguish them- selves from the vulgar held of workers and thinkers, men about town must be in a perpetual state of matutinal imbe- cility. ,"' Where were youfellows lastnight?" he asked, in return. , Frightfully long debate in the House," answered the lean- youth; '" didn't divide till four in the morning." "And divided then exactly as we should have done at seven in the evening, before any of the speeches were made," added the Irishman. "  You are a pretty fellow to say that, O'Neil," retorted the other, " after having made a three-quarter's of an hour speech yourself--though, to be sure, I don't suppose that made any- body vote differently from his previous intentions. "Que voulez vous?" answered O'Neil. "It isn't to change anybody's opinions I speak, ny boy; and, as a member of the I-ouse, you o0ght to know that nobody else does speak for such a purpose. It's only to make people outside talk about me, and get up a cry over the water, maybe, for O'Neil as Attore ney General, or Chief Justice, or Commissioner of something   24      I OtI Mt-LTTLE  GOOD. "It's a nuisance to have to listen, though, when men tall for theih6wn ends," growled the other. "And that's precisely what we wish it to be, Lavers," an swered O'Neil; "if we didn't make ourselves nuisances we' never get anything." "You iay have anything you want here," cried Lorimer "without making yourselves nuisances; and that's exactly what I shall vote you two fellows if you go on talking shop like that. What the deuce do I care About your stupid de bates?" By the way, Littlegood, why don't you go into Parlia. ment?" asked O'Neil. "Because he hasn't spent all his money yet, and isn't a bit afi'aid:of the sheriff-time enough then," said Lavers, answer- ing fohim, and looking meaningly towards O'Neil. True enough;" cried the Irishman, quite good humoredly; "they're blessed privileges we enijoy; and if it weren't for the committees that make a man get up so early, and the debates that keep him up so late, I should like Parliament amazingly." "You missed Mrs. Puddleton's party last night," said Lori- lner.  "I was there for half an hour," answered Lavers, " and was making myself remarkably comfortable with a very pretty girl -quite new, too-when that horrid whipper-in of our party came and hunted me out, looking as frightened all the time as if his life depended on getting me safe into the House." "His seat did-and that's life to him," said O'Neil. "Was it good-the 'hop,' Littlegood?" "Tolerable," was the reply; " there were some very pretty girls-though who they were it is utterly impossible to sa Nobody ever does know where Mrs. Puddleton picks up her friends."  "Was little Stanley there?" asked Lavers. "Do you mean Miss Stanley?" returned Lorimer, coloring slightly.   god.? 1       LORIMEB, EN 'GARCON.         2 "Yes-Ellen Stanley; flirting little thing, inclined to b pert," replied Lavers, quietly. "I shouldn't have known her by your description, I confess, said Lorimer, "though I have had the pleasure of meetin Miss Stanley several times; and, between ourselves, Laver, I don't think it'S quite the right way to speak of a young lad -that which you adopted just now." There was a little touch of warmth in Lorimer's manner a he spoke thus; and Lavers, cool as Wenham Lake ice, saw it and inwardly chuckled at it, because it was precisely the feelin he had wished to elicit.         : "My dear fellow," he replied, "if I had known that yo had any penchant in that quarter I would not have.--" "There's no need of any particular penchant for a lady, trust, to account for one's disliking to hear her spo!ldp disr spectfully of by name," said Lorirner, interrupting him. Mr. Lavers was relieved from th9 necessity of a reply b the entrance, at this moment, of three, or four more of Lor mer's friends. The truth is that Mr. Lavers had tried to cal tivate Miss Ellen Stanley, and that young lady, being unai countably blind to his mental and moral attractions, had snubbe him accordingly; whereupon he adopted the usual expedier of mean people, of abusing what he could not obtain. Of the new comers, one was a sporting-man, another was noisy man, and another was merely an exquisite. Only or thing they had in common-they were all idle men, and like to lounge away an hour or two every morning in a friend rooms, where tobacco and liquids were plentiful, without an cost to theirown pockets. "What are we all going to do?" cried O'Neil. ;W -"I'm going to the 'Corner,' to set my book on the Oal straight a little," answered one. If    4"I'm going to look at a dog-cart mare that's said to be firs -' -rate, and the figure not too high," said another. "I'm going up to Lord's to see the first match of the seasc between our county and the Marylebone,7llsaid another. :..S. '   A TALE OF LIFE'S VICISSITUDES. BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE WATCHMAN," Old Doctor, ,Lawyer  .s Story, 'c.  One vol.; cloth; illustrated.  Price 81 THE unbonnded popularity of this great au thorls famous9 WATCHMAv has justified us in publi shing nn immo, dition; for we k    *ow that this b',olc must have even a larger sale than that celebrated book, of which ove r 40,00' coiies were sold in-the country alone. It is a tale of reM LiF-every incident having, come under the author's own observation.  It is crovded with. CirCumstlmCes of the most vivid and startling interest. Its S t "' is lively anrX its sentiments purity itself.  The "1 Watchman- has been remublhshed by two houses ia Englanyd, and ba everywhere been received with the hi-h est la udat ion.  Orders should be forwarded at oace, so asdto eure an early supply of this popular work s                               i  NEW-YORK H. LONG     &    BROTHER, 121 NASSAU  STREET. COPIES MAILED on receipt of $1, post paid. Address as above    
         
       
   
