
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Poor Mary Pomeroy! .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7473
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Poor Mary Pomeroy! 
            
               II

POOR MARY POMEROYI
THE JERSEY CITY MUSIC TEACHER.
ALSO)
A FUL&amp;AND AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT,
OF THE
fIi~tl of f(ev . Jo1a    y. (
BEFORE THE                 -
AUTHORITIES OF PROSPECT AVENUE CHURCH.
STARTLING DETAILS AND CURIOUS STATEMENTS.
WHAT A LADY SAW ONE NIGHT.
OLD FRANKLIN PUBLISHING hOUSE,
No. /24 South Third Street,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
Enteed ccoringto Act of.Congress,In the year 1874, by C. W. A LEXANDE, In th. Ofiss o
the Librarian of Congress, at, Washington, D. C.


B~c. ood:&amp; Go: Palor Orgw

i

F..

THEIR COMBINATION S6LO STOPS
are capable of the most beautiful musical effects,
AEOLINE-A soft or breating- stop.
VOX HUMANA-A baritone solo, not a fan or tremolo.
PIANO-Which will never require tuning.
Few are aware of the perfection the Parlor Organ has reached, the variety of
musical effects of which it .is capable, and how desirable an addition it is to the
parlor. These instruments have created much interest and enthusias by reason
1f their quality of tone, elegance of fliish and musical effects.
The Profession and Public generally are earnestly invited to ex  ine these
beautiful instruments at our own or agents' warerooms, and compare em with
ther instruments of their class.
Correspondence with the Trade and Profession solicited.
ents wanted in every town. Circulars containing m c free.
0O. WOODS &amp; CO., Cambridg -ort, Mas
66 &amp; 68 AdmSt., C1cago.
J33 King W'il'am         todo.
WAREROOMS 3'' a
*   M. G. BWbe, 920 Chestn       t St)
Philade      , Pa,
N REPLYLNG CUT OFF THiS ADDRESS AND ENCLOSE IN YOUR LETTER.

A

a

POOR MARY POMEROY.
THE title of our little pamphlet has a far deeper, sadder meaning than
the mere use of the words imply. Poor Mary Pomeroy ! Her moulderimg
dust now slumbers peacefully enough in the churchyard in Jersey, where,
after her short and stormy life, her brother and kind friends laid her
down      teafs in their eyes, und gloom and poignant sorrow in their
hearts. It Nuas not only the death of the dear sister and friend that
caused this -sad display, but it was the breaking of her heart and the
destruction -of her hitherto pure character by the man, who above all
others should have defended hei, ere Death caie and took her away to,
that happy home above. Poor Mary's last words Were:
"God forgive him for his wrong to me. I loved hii. I trusted him
foolishly: God have mercy on me; I have told the truth.
They held her baby over her ; but being too weakto raise her arms to
clasp it, she could only kiss it, and then she expired.
Would it be possible for a young woman like Mary Pomeroy, who had
all her life enjoyed such a sterling reputation for virtue and goodness to
thus deliberately lie and perjure herself on her death bed ? We do not
thini( the most hardened human being couldbelieve she would.
Therefore, the plain, simple, st ory of wrong she narrated with her
dying lips stands like an accusation written in blood against her deceiver,
never to be erased; butto remain against him till God's angel of justice
and retribution shall drag him to the eternal bar to be confronted with
his victim and to receive his punishment.
In Jersey City, on Prospect Avenue, on the Heights stands a Presby-
terian Chureb.  It is the most fashionable church in the town, and
among its worshippers were the wealthiest and most respectable families
of the place. The pastor of this tabernacle was the Rev. John S Glen-
dennng, a young man of about twenty eight or thirty. Beig unmarried,
be lived with his mother and sister on Bergen Avenue. He was quite
popular on account of his talents nd winning manners, and, of course,

'A


S

POOR MARY POMEROY.
knot only freely admitted to, but courted in the houses of his parish-
Prominent among these was Mr. J. S. Miller, himself a most
lat and respected citizen. Mr. Miller fully eighteen years ago had
$ed into his family circle as his own daughter, a little orphan girl,
amnine years old, named Mary E. Pomeroy. The child thus adopted,
up and became as much beloved by her new parents as their own
ren.
ers rolled on, and the orphan child expanded into a handsome,
easing and most accomplished woman. Her greatest accomplishment
WI music; and.'consequently, she was ever the recipient of invitations
i it the homes of her friends and acquaintances. Everybody loved
and every one was delighted to have her grace their entertainments,
gi'eat was the pleasure she afforded all. To pass her time away pro-
y, and also that she might not be a burden upon her foster parents
44hough this she did really against their desires-she gave lessons in
c. Beside, she assumed the duties of organist in the Prospect
denue Church of which, as we have said, Glendenning was pastor.
n this position she was, of course, thrown into almost constant com-
if cation and intercourse with the minister. From  mere social and
dibial affairs. the two soon came to speak on more tender subjects.
ers progressed in this way, the affection at least on Mary's part
0wing into true love. Her friends claim that the pastor proposed mar-
ge to Miss Pomeroy and was accepted. This alleged courtship con-
7,  -  ..                                  .
nued three years, Mr. Glendenning often visiting several times a
!tye-ek.
KH also, it is alleged, gave her handsome presents, at one time a gold
tih-and chain, at another earrings, and sleeve buttons. Also most
gnificant of all a wedding ring. This Mr..Glendenning denies.'
long list of most highly respectable witnesses under oath, as ad-
Winistered to them in the most solemn manner known to their religious
elief, all testified unreserved and unanimously to the high opinion they
i  of Mary Pomeroy's purity of life and christian'character.
Not only this, but, in order to show to the community in general, that
reallyy believed what they said and made oath to, all these people
4de it a point to attend the funeral of the victim.
Mary Pomeroy's name has been added to the long list of unfortuates,
bjose trusting love and belief in the promises of a scoundrel, a lying,
Lecherous coward worked their ruin. If there is a human wretch more
esn and contemptible than the veriest reptile, it is that man who gains
W6e 1oVe a woman, and then, through the most solemn vows and pro-
iises, effects her ruin, and then deserting her throws the blame upon
herself. Pshaw ! such a thing is too utterly mean even, to be turned out
p associate with jackals and buzzards, muc less to be allowed to re-
~namn among men.

I

I

4

POOR MARY POMEROY.
No one wilt ever know the agonies of poor Mary Pomeroy's mind du,
the last dreary, horrible months of her once happy life. Her awful so
could not long be coticealeid, and yet with her bleeding heart and I
throbbing of that other life within her own, she was obliged to be meI"
and gleesome. How she must have suffered, as sabbath after sabog
she sat at her organ, and, with trembling fingers, caused its great pip
to peal forth, in unequalled sublimity and grandure, anthems of praiseto
God.   It had no longer any haiymony to her. . It was the frigIt
thunder of doom in her ears. Unable to endure it longer, she would shi1
off the large pipes, and, drawing the softest stops, she made such tended
plaintive, strains float out over the congregation, that the people he
their breaths for fear of interrupting the Heavenly melody. Yet a
seemed to Mary like the wailings and sobbings of unhappy spirits, ad-"
with eyes blinded by bitter tears, she turned toward the altar to catchil
possible a hopeful, encouraging glance upon the minister's face. It w1
the face of him she loved, the face that had so often been bent over het
own, the face that so often had beaired on her fondly, as the lips spoh
the unredeemed, promise.
But on that face there was no comfort for her. Poor girl! plo9;1
trusting, deceived, broken-hearted girl! Henceforth she had no face t
look up to but God's; henceforth no ear in to which to pour her an
guish but God's; henceforth no hand to guide and support her bu0
God's! But'God did not desert her, praise be to His Holy nnme; He di
not leave her in her desolation, and her pangs of dissolution ; hut sei
His angels to bring her over the dark river and through the dark valley
safely home.
Several persons have, since Miss Pomeroy's death, spoken abput t4
manner in which the unfortunate young lady performed on the last oc.
casion of her playing the organ at Glendenning's church. After thi
rehearsal she sat down at the instrument, and, after playing a favorite
voluntary, she striek into Come Ye Disconsolate. This she follow
with:
Rock of ages cleft for me
Let me hide myself in Thee."

And then, after a pause, she rendered the hymn:

"Just as I am
Without one plea
But that the Savior died for me
Oh Lamb of God I aome."
Said one lady.
"I never was so deeply affected in all my life. I little thought at tb
time, as the sweet and solemn sounds made me weep with emotion ith
Mary was thus, like the swan, singing her last and best strains befi


POOR MARY POMEROY.
The agony of mind which she endured at that time must have
n horrible. But who knows? it might have been consoling and hea-
g,6 her tortured spirit."
As she closed up the key board of the organ that evening, she crossed
W_ hands on her lap in a tired, odd kind of way; and looking up at theo
2ided instrument, she said:
"Well, well, how strange it would be, if I should never play upon you
V. in. If I thought I would not, I would bid you.good bye. But no, I
6will n6t do that."
Then, turning to one of her companions, she said:
Annie, if ever I die would you come to see my grave once in awhile.
d put a few flowers on it?"
Oh, Mary, how you do talk!" exclaimed her friend. "What ails you
01night,'any way? You seem to be melancholly."
Never mind, dear," she, hastily replied with a merry laugh, "I was
Ny trying to frighten you."
oon after the party left the church, and, in passing out, Mary lingered
ind the rest in order that she might pause a moment at the altar and
s its sacred marble. God knows; perhaps she felt that, in that act she
h and found forgiveness for her own part of the sin; or perhapsshe
enprayed the Great Judge not to punish her seducer. For every body
~s Mary would forgive her worst enemy.
,-A the next Sabbath a stranger was at the organ in Glendenning's
0rch; and, when the members wondered, they were told Mary was.
sick. Mary Pomeroy had done with the organ, poor girl. In the
I ravail that the Creator in anger sent upon Eve, she was struggling.
02om ithe bed on which she tossed in despair and agony, she was destined
4 evr to rise until her wasted, pulseless form was carried forth to the
ae yard.
Of course, when it was impossible for her to longer conceal her tnis-
rtune, poor Mary confessed all to her mother by adoption Mrs. Miller.
hat lady was naturally exceedingly grieved and shocked at such an un-
zpected and awful disclosure, most especially on account of the asso
eiation of Mr. Glendenning's name with the affair. No one had better op-
Wrtumities of knowing this as the minister of course used to come to her
kt-use to see Mary, and courted her there. She knew also that Mary was
a good girl, and, with the exception of her mistaken confidence in her
4 ilucer, as pure as an angel of light.
Mrs. Miller at once communicated the state of affairs to her husband
was so enraged that he felt tempted to take summary vengeance
upon Glendenning, But cooller second thoughts prevailed with him,
anistead of- following his first inclination, Mr. Miller determined to
rce a marriage. So the necessary steps were taken, the first of which
eisthe following charge laid before Justice Aldridge.

f

/

POOR MARY POMEROY.

7l

[I

HUDSON COUNTY. The voluntary examination of Mary E. Pom
eroy, of Jersey City, in said County, single woman, taken on oath be
Tore me, Thomas Aldridge, one of the Justices of the Peace, in and foi the
said County, this 15th day- of July 1874 A. D., who saith that she is now
with child, and that the said child is likely to be born a bastard, and W
be chargeable to the city of Jersey City, and that John S. Glendenning,
of said city, a minister of the Presbyterian Church, is the father of said
child.
MARY E. POMERQY.
Taken and signed the day and year above written before me.
THOMAS ALDRIDGE,
Justice of the Peace.,,
The next step was the arrest of Glendenning which was at once accom
plished with the utmost despatch; and the' prisoner was brought 14efore
Justice Aldridge for a hearing. After the first part of the excitemot
Glendenning became quite cool and methodical.
Miss Pomeroy's friends perseveringly insisted that Mr. Glendenning
should marry her, using all their powers of persuasion to induce such a
settlement of the affair.
That was no part of his plan, however; and he declined to do so. In
consequence the law was allowed to take its course, and Glendenning
was bound over in heavy bail to stand his trial for the alleged offense,
Mr. John Gordon became his surety to appear and he was released..-"
There were three charges, one for the support of the child, which was
laid against him by the Overseer of the Poor, one for \seduction, and-one
for breach of promise of marriage.
As soon as he was free, G-lendenning began to lay out his defence. V
He relied upon a mysterious paper, which he alleged Miss Pomeroy had
givpn him acknowledging that she had sinned with others than himself.
While all this was gokig on, poor Mary, the victim, was taken sick and-i
the child was born a little girl.
The shock to Miss Pomeroy's system was too much; and, after ap.
parently rallying, she began to droop; and finally sank more and more
rapidly, until, at length, on August 18th, she succumbed to what Doctor
Burnett truly called "a broken heart." During the last night she suffered"
great agony of body and equallysevere torture of mind. In her moments
of mental darkness and debrium, she called on him most pitifully to come
to her, and, at least rescue her good name and reputation from blight and
destruction.
At length day light came,, and, with it came the conviction to all tbe
mourning friends of t'he unfortunates,, as they stood round her bed and
watched her countenance, that the end was rapidly approaching. Early
in the morning Mr. Dudley the Overseer called at the house, and being
,admitted to the sick room, he at once perceived that Mary was dying.


POOR 'MARY POMEROY.
e immediately sent for Justice Aldridge to take her ante mortem state-.
na ent. But the latter gentleman refused to come ercept the victim her-
.f f should express a desire to see him. After some objection and delay
is was obtained.
"I bear him no malice," she groaned, "but I must vindicate ny good
.name."
When Mr. /Aldridge came, which was about eleven o'clock, he ap-
proached her bed side, and taking her hand gently, inquired if she knew
him.
She promptly replied:
"Oh, yes, Sir, I know all of your here."
"You are quite ill, Miss Pomeroy; do you wish to make any state
2ment?"
"Yes, Sir,'I would like to do so. I feel as though I have not long to
ve. There have been a great many things said about me. I now-in
he sight of God tell the truth-that John S. Glendenning is the father
omy child. He has denied it and still denies it; but he, and no one else
a the father of'that child. He has said things against me. I watafraid
of him; but now I am not. He may have papers but that does not clear
hiin."
Ir. Aldridge wrote down this statement in lead pencil and then took
away to his office where he rewrote it in ink. With this ink copy he
returned to Mr. Miller's house that Miss Pomeroy might sign it. But he
bad scarcely entered the dwelling when the unfortunate girl breathed her
last, passing away finally as quietly, as peacefully as an infant falling
asleep. All, therefore, that he could now do was to attest the document
n legal form, which he did as follows:'
B&amp;ate of New Jersey s. s. This is to certify that the above is a true
Statement, as the same was made by Mary E. Pomeroy on her death-bed
ito ie this 18th day of August 1874.
THOMAS ALDRIDGE, JUSTICE OP THE PEACE.
After Mr. Aldridge had first left, Mary clasped her hands together and
Qfered up a most fervent, touching prayer for the destroyer of her hap.
piness and her life. She then prayed for her own poor; unfortunate self.
 tit with the words of supplication quivering on her lips she died, amidst
he tears and sobs of those who stood found her bed.
By her death the only witness on which the two maig charges against
SGlendenning could be substantiated was effectually silenced. And it
ven became a matter of great doubt whether he could be held to answet
the only other one that remained.
Ais soon as the news spread through the city that Miss Pomeroy was-
-dead, there was the wildest public excitement. Groups of men, and even
eomnen, collected in the streets and discussed the awful affair with much

a1

'I

POOR/ MARY POMEROY.

*

When the -tolling requiem bell warns us that some one we love is about
to be consigned to the final resting place, its mournful tones bring tear;
to our eyes. Yet to comfort us under ordinary circumstances we have
the assurance that no pang of conscience, no suffering of the soul, added
anything to the physical pains of the departed. But sometimes-G'od
help our loved and lost-the soul itself endures the torture of dissolution
as well as the body. Ah ! then, indeed, the solemn, mournful bell makes
not our eyes alone, but also our hearts to bleed with something more
than sorrow, something more than pity.
Poor Mary Pomeroy! Had her contemptible deceiver been possessed of
the tithe of a man's bravery or honor, he would have, at least, plickeaL
the thorn from that wretched girl's pillow by the mairiage ceremony.
But the only panacea which could heal her breaking, despairing heart,
was ruthlessly denied her. Like a wounded bird; forsaken by the flock,
stricken, fainting, perishing, she was doomed to tread the dark valley
alone, uncomforted, unsbriven. She had been taught by lips she loved
to "pray for her enemies," and now all her dying breath was spent in
praying for her worst foe, and when att least she thought of herself, and
to ask God to forgiveher, she had'no strength to do so. Her lips forgot'
their art and with no word of prayer for herself, Mary Pomeroy, was
ushered into the presence of God to plead at His bar. Yet there was
for her advocate that saviour who on earth once said:
"Neither do I condemn thee."
Those who stood around Mary's death-bed were melted, as they
watched her white, trembling, clasped hands; and heard her tongue
pleading that he might be forgiven. And they said they had never bei.
fore in all their experience witnessed such a scene. Most pathetic off all",
was the climax. At the dying girl's request Mrs. Miller held the baby
down to her face till its lips touched hers. She made a superhuman
effort to raise her arms and get them around the little creature, but could
not. One last, fond look of love, agony, joy, despair, hope, and resig.
nation, flitted across Mary's face for a moment or so; and then, the un..
seen hand of Death drew over her features the blank veil which divides,
mortality from immortality. Mary was gone, the baby was a branded,
orphan waif, and the case against him who had caused all this misr
and ihurder was secure from man's puny vengeance. But not from God's
will it preserve the wretch. There was one thorn in Mary Pomeroy'a
dying pillow; but his will be filled with thorns.

intensity of feeling; and it is certain that there were men filledwith
rage and determination enough to have taken the accused man's life "
right or wrong.
MARY'S FUNERAL.


L

I-0

POOR MARY POMEROY.

l    The tragedy was over, so far as the victim was concerned, and naught
remained for the relatives and few staunch friends, who still loved the
nory of the, unfortunate Mary, but to lay her wasted body away to
#umber in its dusty bed under the green grass and innocent flowers.
With tenderest care the corpse was wrapped and coffined in a magnifi-
cent rosewood burial casket. In order to prevent any demonstration the
funeral was not made public, except to a few intimate friends 6f the def
ceased. Yet when the hour for the services arrived-which was 2 o'clock
in the afternoon there was an enormous mass of people who had been
assembling since early in the morning, attracted as much by pity at the
sad fate of the unfortunate girl, as by curiosity to behold her funeral
cort6ge.
The most conspicuous feature of the whole affair was the great number
of highly respectable gentlemen and their wives and daughters, who had
made it a special duty to be at the obsequies, in order that their presence
might show their sincere belief in the virtue, and purity, and sterling worth
of lAiss Pomeroy. \They were particularly desirous to do this because
certain interested parties had officiously and with diabolical malice set
afloat rupnors to the effect that the poor dead victim of a villain had been
of unchaste habits. This was the meanest, most cowardly trick of which
the betraying seducer could have been guilty; because Mary's mouth
was closed in the tomb and she could not deny the vile lies heaped
Upon the grave clods that hid her from the' world's sight. And ~here let
us remark that the dead girl's brother must be of a most perfect christian
disposition, and a firm believer in the admonition--" Vengeance is mine;
I will repay, saith the Lord."  If not, how could he stand by that
sister's corpse, and, knowing what calumies her betrayer was circulating
about her, not seize his revolver,' and bury every bullet of its six chambers
in the heart of the ruining wretch?
Among these distinguished ladies and gentlemen who had thus come,
to testify their appreciation of .Mary Pomeroy were the 'following-
Ex Mayor Sawyer and wife, Charles L. Northrup, Alderman Toffey
Geo. P. Howell-who is an elder in Glendenning's church, William E.
Dudley, Albert Metz, H. A. Hellerman, J. H. Bedell, C. W. Congar,
Edward L. Kimberly, Geo. E. Randall, Chas. W. Perveil, S. H. Demotti.
6hn Allen, and Gilbert E. Dudley.
In the course of conversation, Mayor Sawyer remarked:
"I determined I would come here at all hazards. As a man of family, v*
I wish to show my appreciation of the sterling character of that Young
woman. She visited some of our very best families, and, from what 1
know of her, I can assert positively that, except this piece of misplaced
confidence and devotional love, there never was a purer; moree virtuous
girl than Mary Pomeroy."

POOR MARY POMEROY.

7.

11

Doctor Burdett called, and while endeavoring to console Ms. Miller,
whose grief had brought on an attack of acute nervousness, said:
"Ahi madam, you ought, after all, to feel happy that poor,  loved Mary
has been taken by God to Himself-; for had she lived she must have been
placed in the Lunatic Asylum."
Mary's brother Alfred who lived in Michigan having been telegraphed
for arrived while the funeral was gathering; and the scene, as he ad-
vanced and gazed down upon the white, emaciated face of his sister.
That face was wonderfully calm, after such a storm, so calm that no one
there but felt its owner had made her peace with God and was now rest-
ing peacefully on his bosom.
The body was dressed in rich black tarletan, but it could scarcely be
seen for, from the neck to the feet kinsl hands, moved by fond hearts had
heaped upon it pure white flowers-in profusion. Wreaths, crosses, bou-
quets, anchors and hand bunches were laid there, while a magnificent
crown was passed round the head. Most touching and most suggestive
of all however was a memento that some unknown hand had placed di-
rectly upon the still, bosom of the dead one. It was in the form of a
broken heart and was constructed of opening white roses to each of which
a hot iron had been skilfully touched so as to sear and brown the topof
the flower while leaving the other part fresh and undiscolored.
Oh! could that bad, bad man have only looked upon this memento it
would have haunted him to his dying day, and be ever telling him of his
awful crime.
When the final moment arrived and the undertaker screwed down the
coffin lid over the mortal from of the dead, people saw the silver plate on
which were engraved the lines:
MARY E. POMEROY,
DIED AUGUST 18, 1874.
Aged 26 years and 3 Months.
It had been desired to have a clergyman of the Presbyterian church
present to perform the burial services; but as will be seen it was im-
possible to have one, and so the Rev. Mr. Tunison of the Simpson Meth.
odist church performed the sad and trying duty. The first act he per-
formed was to baptize the baby, and as he did so, he could not be heard
for the sobs and weeping of those who were touched to the soul by the
rite, under such circumstances. This over, he 'took the book and in
measured accents read that sublime service commencing "Man that is
born of a woman, hath but a short time to live."
When he had finished he delivered his sermon. He appreciated the
fact that he was placed in a position of exceeding delicacy. A follow
worker ia God's vineyard had been accused in the most sOlemnl fork

'1


POOR MARY 'POMEROY.

V nown to mankind, by the now silent lips of Mary Pomei oy, of the vilest
r'ime with which he could have been charged.
Technically, in the eyes of the law at least, the accused must be con-
Bidered innocent. His position also in the community as a shepherd, a
guardian of morality, was in his favor, independently of his character as
a mpan. ' Yet in the opposite scale to weight the frightful accusation were
the facts that Miss Pomeroy's personal character was certainly held in
As much esteen as that of the accused, and that her original charge had
been most emphatically repeated by her upon her her death-bed, in her
full senses.
The following is a synopsis of Mr. Tunison's discourse:
"Something more than a quarter of a century, I have mingled as a
minister with christian people. I have buried fathers and mothers, sons
and daughters. I have been called upon to consign to the silence of the
tomb, those who had been called away iii a moment. But the most pain-
ful duty I have been called upon as a christian pastor I realize this hour.
It is not only painful l4ut delicate. I am not willing to say a word that
would reflect unjustly on any human being, yet I must speak boldly,
those sentiments which will promote your morals and secure your wel..
fare. I have prayed to God anxiously and earnestly this morning that
be may guide me through this painful ordeal. In all cities, towns and
nations there are, and there will be, deserters, despite the enactment of
the best and wisest laws.
"The point that I desire to make in this connectionis, that there are
men who will commit crime despite the fact that God lives and reigns.
God governs the ways of beings who are constantly rebelling against him.
This world to day is not the same as when God made it. The soul and
mind of a man are not as they were when God made- them. Earth-
quakes, whirlwinds, famine and pestilence, are things that may exist in
connection'with a people who may have rebelled against God's authority.
If there were no virtues there would be no vice. How is it that some of
those who are the purest and best suffer the most while those who are
the vilest and the worst suffer the least? If I take poison, no matter
whether I am a good man or a bad man, whether I have followed God's
law or rebelled against it, I will die ; because as I have said, God governs
the world by general laws. The good suffer, yet God loves righteousness
and hates evil. If I could believe there would be no hereafter-that
when man dies there would be an end to manR, body-and soul, that there
would be no rewards or punishments, I would discard the existence of
God, I would be an atheist. I say this deliberately in presence of this
vast assemblage. The thought suggested by these points are that we
ar'e constantly surrounded by dangers, sickness, losses, and, worst of all
by sin. No matter how near we live to God, how much grace we have,
we are in constant danger till our dying hour. What are we to learn

POOR MARY POMEROY.

IOU

.i

from this ? - We must be always vigilant and on our guard against the
enemy. Does it not become a navigator to watch anxiously lest he may
strike upon a rock
"The sad event which called us here to day teaches the importance of
guarding against evil in all its forms. A little matter kindles a great
fire. A little drop of poison quenches out a life. Bear with me if I speak
of the experience of our -departed friend. One, single mistake broke a
beart that was full of joy, and destroyed a life. One, single mistake on
the part of her seducer made him a murderer. I stand here to repeat it,
and am ready to answer for it at the bar of man. I am a father, and I
speak to fathers and mothers. I would rather see the mangled and life-
less remains of my daughter striken down by the hand of the midnight
assassin, brought to my door, than to see her robbed of her honor and
her virtue. If a man that robs another of life deserves death on the scaf-
fold, the man that robs a woman of what is dearer to her than life, de-
serves a thousand deaths on the scaffold., Oh ! young men and young
women, who hear me, pause, before you make one step toward the nar-
row way. A great shadow has been cast upon this household. Poor
Mary Pomeroy, when she fell, realized that all the beauties had departed
out of this life. What a fearful mass of human beings who have made a
similar false step, have robbed themselves and sometimes their innocent
ones of life. Poor Mary Pomeroy ! She raised her soul to God and
prepared herself to pass to a world where she hoped there would be no
suffering.
"'I have made up my mind,' said she, fthat(ITmust make a, great effort
if I will be saved. When I had fallen, I felt that I was estranged from
God, and that I must make a great effort to be restored to his friendship.
I would like to live longer; but I must go. I am content."
"Oh, it is well for poor Mary Pomeroy that God has taken her from a
world of woe to a world of gladness!"
Very frequently, during the delivery of this sermon, the minister was
interrupted with long-continued bursts of grief and sobbing from the
assembled mourning friends.
Within a short time after the conclusion of the funeral ce emonies, the
body of the unfortunate girl was lowered into the grave, e clods of
earth heaped in upoa her coffin until the mound was finished an rounded
vff into shape. So ended the mortal career of Mary Pomeroy.


14:                   POOR MIARY POMEROY.
THE SUBSEQUENT MOVEMENTS.
Of course, after the decease of the alleged victim all sorts of surmises
were set afloat as to what would be done in the case. The friends of
Miss Pomeroy scarcely knew what to do in the affair as without herself
t-here could be no decided testimony against the accused. The friends of
the latter were as well pleased with the turn matters had taken, though
had they had real, judicious discretion, they should have been sorry that
there was not a full opportunity of proving \to the satisfaction of the
community the innocence of their accused friend.
Soon after the funeral Mrs. Miller took a trip over to New York to
ascertain if possible of some institution in which the baby might be
placed to be raised, as it was in an exceedingly delicate state of health
and she wished it to have, therefore the very best of medical treatment.
This under the circumstances it could not receive at her house.
On this occasion, quite by accident, she happened to stop in at the
Clinton Place Nursery. There she learned in the course of conversation
that a man answering the description of the accused had been about six
weeks previously, to inquire whether they had accommodations for a lady.
When Mrs. Miller stated this fact, there was a fierce denial of it, and a
challenge to prove. So at an indignation meeting which was presided
over by Ex Mayor Sawyer,. we believe, the following affidavit, made by
Mrs. Miller was read.
Mrs. J. P. Miller, being duly sworn, upon her oath says that on Thurs-
day, the 13th day of August, 1874, deponent went to the city of New
York for the purpose of making some arrangement for a nurse for the
child of the late Miss Mary E. Poineroy and Rev. John S. Glendenning,
and first called at a foundling asylum near Sixty-eighth street, and after
some conversation at that institution it was suggested to her'to return
on the following Saturday, the 15th of August inst., and make the final
arrangements, and such was deponent's intention; but my aunt,,Mrs.
Miller, suggested that we go to the Presbyterian Home of the Friendless,
on Twenty-ninth street, and I then concluded I would do so on the fol-
lowing day, the 14th of August inst. I did call upon them and they re-
fused to receive the baby unless given to them, which I declined to do,
and they recommended me to go to another institution on Fiftieth street,
which I did. They informed me that they could not receive it just then.
They advised. me to go to an institution known as an infant asylum, in
Clinton place, and on the same day I called at that institution and stated
the case to some of the attendants, and they recommended me to call on
Dr. Hubbard, who was coniiected with that institution, at his house in
Ninth street, which I did ; stated the facts to him and said my object
was to get the child into the institution to be properly nursed, He said
that really they had no right to take the child, as it belonged to New


POOR MARY POMEROY.                             4
Jersey, and ought not to be supported by a New York institution, but
that there would be a meeting of the Board of Managers Saturday, the
15th of August, at which time he said he would bring the case before
them as to whether they would take the child. He said, "By the by,
how old is the child?" Deponent replied that it was three weeks old to-
morrow. He (Di. Hubbard) made a few other casual remarks, when I
remarked, "You have probably read all about the case.", He said be
had, and offered sympathy and asked what we were going to do with the
man. I told him that remained to be seen; that we must save the
mother, and child; the babe must be put out to nurse. He then requested
me to describe the gentleman (referring to the one believed to be its
father). I commenced as follows: "He is-short, rather thick set, with a
short thick neck."  I was somewhat confused, and hesitated a moment,
when Dr. Hubbard said, "Rather dark hair, dark complexion, very young
looking and pleasing in his manners ?" I replied. "Exactly," and then
nation as this?" Said he, "I don't know about that, but a man answer-
ing this description came here about six weeks ago, wishing to get a girl
admitted into the institution for the purpose of confinement, and I made
arrangements to meet the young man at the institution the next day, but
have mot seen him since."  He told me to go back to the institution, and
they would tell me what they knew. I did not then return to the in--
stitution, but returned to my home, on reaching which I found Miss
Pomeroy had experienced a change for the worse, and continued to grow
more fe-ble until death put an end to her mental and bodily sufferings.
The reason of my going was in consequence of her wish to have the'child
placed in such an institution.
On Friday, the 12th of August inst., deponent again went to the
Clinton place institution, taking with her the brother of the late Mary E.
Poimeroy, Alfred B. Pomeroy. We met the head nurse or matron and
told her our business, that I wished to put a child out to nurse; we ex-
plained what child it was; and told her Dr. Hubbard thought the gentleman
who had called some time previous referred to tLe same girl. She said,
"Yes, there was a. gentleman called about admitting a girl into the in-.
stitution." Deponent said, "Would you know his picture" (photograph),
and I handed her a photograph of Rev. John S. Glqndenning; a very
correct. likeness. She positively said, "That is the man" (meaning the
man ivho had some time previously called to make arrangements about a
young girl being confined at that institution). She further added:-."I
noticed him particularly, as he acted strangely and did not want to como
into the parlor and was much agitated; on entering the parlor I notiegl
be pulled his hat down overL his eyes, and it was his conduct that made
meo notice him particularly." She also said that the doctor's would come

Miss Pomeroy.


18

PoOR MARY POMEROY.

over the next day (Saturday), the 22d day of August, and they would
see what arrangements they would make about the child.
On Saturday I went over, taking with me Mrs. Julia M. Metz, and
both of us proceeded to the Clinton place institution, at which time Dr.
Hubbard stated to us that they had concluded not to take it, ag it be-
longed to New Jersey. Some other unimportant remarks were made,
when I said:--" Well, Doctor, your nurse or matron identified the picture
(referring to John S. Glendenning's photograph) as that of the gentleman
who called about six weeks ago," to which he replied, "Yes, so she says,
and I said to her she must be very careful, as she may have to swear to
it," and he said that she then told him she could swear to it. He then
said, "Have you the picture?"  I said "Yes."  He said, "Let me look
at it." He then said, "I cannot say that was the man, as it was in the
evening when I saw him." He then remarked that it would be better to
let the Poormaster have charge of the matter and get a wet nurse, as the
child must be delicate.
Mrs. J. S. MILLER.
Subscribed and sworn before me this 25th day of August, A. D. 1874.
JOSEPH H. ALDRIDGE;
Notary Public of the city of Jersey City:
The above afidavit was followed by like documents from the brother
of the dead girl and also Mrs. Metz, corroborative of it.
On the next Sabbath after the funeral it was thought that the church
would be crowded, by curious people, but it was not, as it had become
known that Glendenning would not officiate in the pulpit. The most
affee ing part of the whole service, which was conducted by Rev. Mr.
Wiggins, was the music. Mr. Hellerman took Miss Pomeroy's place at
the organ while around him the ladies and gentlemen of the choir ranged
themselves. The organist took Mary's music book and opening at her
...,favorite voluntary, drew the stops of the instrument,. and softly sent the
weet dreamy notes floating abroad in the sacred building. There was
not a member of the choir but was in tears, as indeed also were most, of
the 'sparse congregation scattered throughout the building. Mr. Wig.
gins' discourse had no point of reference whatever to the subject whiirb
was causing such an excitement in the community.
After the commotion attending the exposure, the whole affair seemed
to drift away for awhile into quiet and obscurity and numbers pf people.
in the community, believed that as most other affairs of a like character it
would be hushed up.
But it was not so. There were too many friends of standing and re'
spectability in Jersey City, who had made up their minds that 'the
character of poor, dead Mary Pomeroy should not be neadlessly and
cruelly uillified in order that some other character might be saved.-

V

POOR MARY POMEROY.

19

U,

-  these friends moved steadily and determinedly against the ian
wiom they alleged to be guilty of the destruction of Miss Pomeroy--
Mr. Glendenning.
On the other hand Glendenning had numbers of friends equally respect-
able and wealthy who stood by im and fought the attack step by step
as it advanced, and who no doubt firmly believed in the innocence of the
pastor. And it is quite likely that had Miss Pomeroy's defenders been of
less weight than they were in society the Presbyterian Church Officials,
would never have consented to investigate the charges brought against
Glenden.ing.  If for no other reason they would have followed this
vourse-for fear that the mere entertainment by them of such charges
would work ill to the cause of religion in general.
An  we must say, that, in all denominations, this desire to prevent
the crucial test of an accused shepherd'scharacter is ever to powerful.
There is not the slightest doubt also that more harm is done to religion
thereby than to bring out the whole truth, naked and without conceal,
ment. For if the gold -is pure fire does it no damage. It shines only
brighter than before. But if the metal is base then is it destroyed by the
Gre and it can no longer pass muster with the unsullied, unalloyed coin.
We hold therefore that, in all cases, when, for instance a minister of
the gospel, or in fact any man is accused of a heinous crime against mo.
16ality, instead of quibbling and hiding behind this legal and that legal
privilege, he should come forward promptly, waive all quirks and queries
and say to his fellow-men:
"I have been thus, accused. I am not guilty. -lre I am, examine
me as you will4 will answer."  The innocent ian could never suffer
under these cirentstances. None but the guilty could.
When the church officials found that they must, in defference to public
opinion, hold an investigation they called a meeting for the purpose.
The first meeting of the .Jersey City Presbytery took place in the
Second Presbyterian church on October 61h.' It was composed of del-
egates from Hudson, Essex -in1d Passaic Counties. The R ev. Mr. Wall
vas elected Moderator, Rev. Mr. Moore permanent Clerk, Rev. Mr.
French and Mr. Stern Assistani clerks.
All the preliminary arrrangements and details having been settled
upon. Rev. Mr. Booth rose and moved that the letter of the Rev. John
S. Glendenning in the hands of the clerk be read.
Rev. Mr. Darkness objected to this.' He moved as an amendment that
(the Presbvtery alone should listen to the reading; because, in his opinion
this case had already received sufficient publicity. This looked so much
like a smothering effort that Mr. Imbrie spi-ang to his feet and replied
rather sharply to the objection of his colleague.
A, motion was, now made and carried to appoint a committee of six,
three clergymen and three elders, to take the matter into consideration.


20

-OOR MARY POMEROT.

The following named gentlemen were appointed::-Of the clergy, Rev.
Messrs Imbrie, Magee and Riggs, and of the elders, Messrs Stewart,
De Witt and Meigs.
Mr. Imbrie rose and said in effect, that as this case was an exceedingly
'important one, notice should be given through the papers of the time and
place of the investigation, so that all concerned could come forward.
The committee were to sit as a Grand Jury, and it would be their duty
ii1ascertain first of all, if there were sufficient grounds for a case.
Rev. Mr. Edwards most strenously and bitterly opposed this propo-
sition, as it would be entirely unprecedented. For his part he thought'
that the committee should not allow more than a certain number of wit.
nesses to testify.
Rev. Mr. Imbrie replied to this demonstration quite sharply. Ie said
that the committee would, there and then, give notice to all persons having
-complaints to make, to come forward, and that a committee had been ap-
pointed. to hear them. The case was a very grave one, and demanded
the fullest investigation, and the inquiry should be so conducted that no
person could come forward hereafter and say, with truth, that it wa
partial or one sided, or that any attempt was made to suppress the facts
or shield the guilty. For his own part, as chairman of the committee
he would take the responsibility of giving the notice, unless the Presby-
tery should pass a resolution to the contrary.
Thereupon the committee retired for deliberation and soon after issued
the following notice;
The undersigned-having been appointed by the Presbytery of Jersey
City as a judical committee, to consider and report tothe Presbytery,
what action if any, is to be taken by the Presbytery, in the case of the
Rev. Johd S. Glendenning, who has applied to the Presbytery for a
thorough investigation of certain charges alleged against his moral char,
seter, and current in this community-give the public notice, that the
4omhtjttee will meet in the Prospect Avenue Presbyterian Church, Jersey
City Heights, on to-morrow, Wednesday afternoon at four o'clock, and
in the evening of the same day, at half past seven o'clock. At said meet-
ing, any person, or persons, who have charges to prefer against said Rev.
John S. Glendenning in this case, with evidence to substantiate ho
same, will be freely heard, and any papers pertaining to the case will ,
there received.
CHARLES K. IMBRIE,
DAVID MAGEE,
HERMAN C. RIGGS,
TYLUs 0. MEIGS,
ROBERT STEWART,
CUAS A. DE WITT.
Mr. Glendenning was present during the entire proceedings.
On the next day the Presbytery resumed its session, inaugurating the
proceedings . with a prayer meeting, during w bich Rev. Mr. Muurom
offered up an earnest prayer for Brother Gliendenning.

4

r

1'

I  -- ,

POOR MARY POMEROY.

2f

THE REPORT.
The Judicial Committee in reference to the case committed to them-
viz., the written request of the Rev. John S. Glendenning, a member of
the Presbytery, to the Presbytery for a thorough investigation of the,
charges alleged against his moral character and now current in this com-
munity-respectfully report:
That according to their published notice they held sessions in the
Prospect avenue Presbyterian church, Jersey City Heights, on Wedneb'.
day, October 7, from four o'clock P. M. until ten o'clock P. M. and again
on Thursday, October 8, from nine o'clock A. M. until three o'clock P. M.1
in order to afford opportunity for receiving any charges that might be
preferred against the Rev. John S. Glendenning, aforesaid, in the case re-
ferred to them, together with any testimony that might be offered' in
support of the same, and after careful examination under oath (f a suffi-
cient number of witnesses among those offering themselves and the in-,
spection of several official documents submitted to the committee, they-
find that enough testimony is adduced to warrant the Presbytery in un-
dertaking the investigation of the following charges laid against the Rev.
John S. Glendenning, viz.:
FIRST CHARGE.-Seduction of and illicit intercourse with an unmarried
woman.
Specification First.-In that on or about the 4th day or July, 1873,
the Rev. John S. Glendennin  did, under promise of marriage, seduce
Miss Mary E. Pomeroy, formerly of Jersey City Heights and latly
.deceased.
Specification Second.-In that on subsequent occasions the Rev. Johp
S. Glendenning repeated his acts with the said Mary E. Pomeroy at
various times between July 4, 1873, and July 1, 1874.
Specification Third.-In that the Rev. John S. Glendenning repeated
at different times his acts of intercourse with the said Mary E. Pomeroy
between the dates of July 4, 1873, and July 1, 1874, as a foresaid, the
same resulting in the birth of a child by said Mary E. Pomeroy.
To substantiate the above charge and specifications there are offered as
testimony two affidavits-one made before Thomas Aid ridge, Justice of
the Peace in Jersey City, by Mary ,E. Pomeroy, charging bastardy on
the said John S. Glendenning; the other now in the bands of the' civil
Court, to be hereafter submitted ; the dying statement of the said Mary
Ellen Pomeroy, titken -by the said Thomas Aldridge, and in his osses
SIun, but not sworn to by her; also the following cori'oborating wit-
fiesses-viz., J. S. Miller, Mrs. Clara H. Randall, Mrs. Willard Dudley,
Mrs. Fannie S Birmingham, Thomas Aldridge, Mrs. Lizzie E. Reeve,
21 1  C.roline D. Wilson, Mrs. Sarah R. Graves, together with others,
- mentioned below.

-


22

POOR MARY POMEROY.,

SECOND CHARE.-Breach of promise of marriage.
Specification.-In that about. the month of May or June, A. D. 18T,
the Rev. John S. GYlendeuning gave to Miss Mary E. Pomeroy an en-
gagement ring, and both before and particularly thereafter, maintained
with her such intimate intercourse as to lead to a conviction on the park
of-.others of the existetnce of an engagement of marriage between them,
and led her to declare the existence of such an engagement to a number
of parties. And that notwithstanding thi  the- Rev. John S. Glenden-
ning did emphatically refuse, without just cause, to consummate marriage
with her,
To substantiate the above charge there is offered the testimony of the
following witnesses-viz., Mr, J. S. Miller, Mrs. Clara H. Randall, Mrs.
Lizzie J. Reeve, Miss Mary Guilfoyle, Mrs. Caroline D Wilson, Mrs.
Sarah R. Graves, together with others, as mentioned below.
THIRD CHARGE.-Falsehood.
Specification.-In that the Rev. John S. Glendenning, having visited
some time previous to the birth of the child of Miss Mary E. Pomeroy, a
hospital in Clinton place, city of 'New York, and then and there, having
sought to procure accommodation for a woman expecting to be delivered,
of a child, did afterwards deny the same to be true.
To substantiate the above charges, there is offered the testimony of
Mrs. Miller, Julia M  Metz, together with others; also, the copy of an
affidavit of Mr. Alfred B. Pomeroy.
FOURTH CHARGE.-Inministerial and unchristianlike conduct.
Specification First.-In that about eight weeks before the birth of Miss
Mary E-Pomeroy's child the Rev. John S. Glendenning did procure from
her by means of threats of personal violence a writing exonerating hirn
from blame in reference to her.
To substantiate the above specification of charge 4, there is offered the
testimony of the following witnesses:-J. S. Miller, Mrs. Miller, Clara H.
Randall, Lizzie G. Reeve, Caroline R. Graves and others.
Specification Second.-In that the Rev. John S. Glendenning compro-
mised his Christian character by making Miss E. Pomeroy so many and
such valuable presents, visiting her so frequently and' at such unseason'-
-.able hours, and living on such intimate terms with her as to occasion
public suspicion of impropriety, especially as he was understood at the
same time to declare that no more than the ordinary relations of life sub-
sisted between th~em.
To substantiate the above specification of charge 4 there is offered the
testimony of the following witnesses: J. S. Miller, Clara H. Randall,
Miss.Mary Guilfoyle, Lizzie G. Reeve and others.
In corrobation of the above charges and specifications the testimony of
the following witnesses are also offered as to the various parts of the same.
(Here follows a long list of witnesses.)

m

me eninaittee would~ therefore recommend to the Presbytery to
fndertake the investigation of the above charges and specifications,
and to pY4aecute them to an issue according to the rules laid down in
our book. They further recommend that for this purpose a prosecuting
committee of two be \appointed, by the Presbytery (according to the
method prescribed in the case- of charges preferred on the ground of
common causes), whose- duty it shall be to conduct the prosecution of
the case, and inasmuch as the book allows an accused person the aid of
any minister or elder in the Presbytery as counsellor to assist him inL
conducting his case, the committed recommend that a committee of such
counsellors equal to the number of the proposed prosecuting committee,
and selected from the members of the Presbytery by the accused, be ac-
credited to him to aid in his- defence.
And, further, inasmuch as the charges to be investigated have excited
a strong and widely spread public interest and a natural desire that the
trial should be open to the public, the committee would recommend that
the Presbytery grant permission to any accredited reporter of the public
press to be present to take notes; and, also, that the door should be open
to as many other persons of the public besides as the rooma in which the
Presbytery holds its sessions can comfortably accommodateconsisteit with
the Presbytery's own convenience-it being understood that any such
persons so admitted shall be subject to exclusiou after proof of abusing
this privilege. All of which is respectfully submitted.
CHARLES K. IMBRIE,
HERMAN 0. RIGOS,
4ITUs B. MEIGS,
DAVID MAGIE,
CHARLES A. DE WITT,
ROBERT STEWART,
Judical Committee.
In response to the committee's invitation 'for all parties who could
testify in the matter on hand there were a large number of persons pre-
sented themselves for that purpose. They were accommodated with seats
in the meeting room of the elders behind the pulpit. At the hour of four
the meeting.duely began its inquisition. Among those present promptly
at the time named were Mr. and Mrs. Miller, the guardians of Mary
Pomeroy, Mr. Huyler Deniotte, Mr. J. F. Talson -and. his son, Mr, Wil-
lard E Dudley, -Ex'Mayor Sawyer, Ex Recorder Aldridge, Mr. Osboul-ne;
Mr. Charles Northup, Mr. Albert Metz, Mr. Randall, Mr. Thorpe, Mr.'
Thetcher, Mrs. Sawyer, Mrs. Graves, Mrs. Metz, Mrs. Congar, Mrs.,
Birmingham, Mrs. Thetcher, Miss Jennie Miller, Mrs. Reeves, Mrs.
Rattan, Mrs. Randall, and Mrs. Dudley. These were the ,most im-
portant witnesses of which latter altogether, there were more than fifty

POOR MARY POMEROY.

231-


24                     POOR MARY POMEROY.
Mrs.'Birmingham and Mrs, Walcott sat beside the 'death bed of Miss
Pomeroy and to them it was that the poor, perishing girl unburdened
her breaking, dying heart of its fearful load of misery and despair.
The first witness called was Mr. J. Smith Miller. He was sworn in
accordance with the constitution of the Presbyterian Church, no person
being present but him and the committee. The examination of this wit.
ness was very tedious, occupying two hours and a half. The evidence
was written out by the Secretary of the committee, the President at the
same time taking notes. Mr. Miller testified that Mary E. Pomeroy had
lived in his family for eighteen years, twelve of which were passed in
the house with himself and his wife; her father and mother were dead;
she was- born in Seneca county, New York; two years ago she became
acquainted with the.Rev. John S. Glepdenning, who soon became a con-
stant visitor at his (Miller's) house ; for four or five months previous to
Miss Pomeroy's death he called as often as three and four times a week
kand would remain sometimes till midnight, chatting with her in the par-
lor; witness never suspected anything wrong for he thought  it a pastor
would be the last man to'arouse suspicion; Miss Pomeroy was always
carefully watched and guarded, and was never allowed to be alone in the
company of any man but Glendenning; witness was particularly watch-
ful over her because she was an orphan; she was of most exemplary
habits and very talented; she gave lessons in music and became organist
in Glendenning's church; Glendenning gave her numerous presents, in-
eluding a pair of gold earrings, a pair of gold bracelets and, an -engage-
ment ring, on which was engraved the words-" Two HEARTS IN ONE
this ring he afterwards took back from her on some trivial pretence a few
months before her death. (Mr. Miller here exhibited some of the articles.
of jewelry) On the Sunday night before Glendenning's arrest he escorted
Miss Pomeroy home from the church after evening service. Mr. Miller
  then detailed the circumstances of the arrest of Glendenning on the charge
of bastardy, the proceedings in the charge of seduction, and the suit for
breach of promise of marriage.
Chairman.-Have you the documents in these cases in your pos-
session?
Witness.-Yes, all but the affidavit in the breach of promise case; it is
Sled in the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court at Trenton, but Mr.
Linn, who was the counsel for the plaintiff, has written for a certified
copysof it to Trenton; Justice Aldridge will produce th.e other papers
when he appears before you. Mr. Miller detailed the conversations he
had with Miss Pomeroy concerning her relations with Glendenning \and
his own interview with the pastor when the latter was arrested and
Brought face to face with the injured girl.
Mrs. Miller was the next witness called. IHir testimony was a corrob-
*ration of that offered by her husband. The most striking part of it wa

v

* 11


POOR MARY POMEROY.

her account of the interview, between her and I
dent of the institution for foundlings in Clinton
had called in company with Alfred B. Pomeroy
foundlings in New York where ,she desired to
fant brought up, but the conditions were so exa
accept them. When she called at the Clinto
stated the object of her visit she was asked qu
residence, &amp;C.; she was then informed that a g
some weeks before making arrangements to hav
into the institution, "as she was in trouble;" in
followed Glendenning was described so accurate
"Why, Doctor, you astound me; it cannot be
said, "Well, then, you had better go and see
tell you, for she saw the man;" the matron's tes
to be stronger than the doctor's; Mrs. Miller we
the institution, bearing a photograph of rlenden
at once identified, saying, "That is the man.
Mrs.. Miller was here asked several questions
ing her recollection of the actual conversation b
luded to, and she replied that it was too vividly
to be easily forgotten. Her examination was c
so that, owing to the lateness of the hour, nearly
left the church. Only three ladies and two gent
The examination will be continued to-day a
the secretary of the committee announced that i
to call all the witnesses. The committee, it is
most indefatigably, and did not even adjourn fo
lasted seven hours without intermission. The
pedite the business so that the case may be
Presbytery.
One of the witnesses,Mr. Talson, a venerable
though I cannot conveniently attend to-morrow
ness, for this is a case where every man who ha
the innocent. My son, however, will be in atte
THE TRIAL.
On October 14th, the regular trial before the
The Moderator, Rev. Mr. Wall, occupied the ch
by the Rev. Mr. Edwards, who implored the L
a righteous conclusion on the grave question be
of the Rev. John S. Glendenning. The -latte
counsel, Rev. Messrs. Dodd and Wall. The pr

)r. Hubbard, superinten-
place, New York. She
at three institutions for
have Miss Pomeroy's in-
cting that she refused to
n place institution and
estions as to her place of
entleman had been there
e a young lady admitted
the conversation which
ly that Mrs. Miller said,
A;" to which the doctor
the matron, and she will
timony of the fact proved
nt home and returned to
ning, which the matron
by the Chairman touch-
etween her and those al-
impressed on her mind
inducted at great length,
y all the other witnesses
lemen remained.
nd brought to a close, as
t would not be necessary
but just to state, labored
)r supper. Their session
y are determined to ex-
reported to-day to the
e gentleman said:--"Al-
I will sink all other busi.-
s a family should sustain
ndance."
Presbytery commenced.
air. Prayer was offered
)rd to guide the Court to
fore them-viz., the trial
r was seated beside his
'osecuting counsel, Rev.


28

POOR MARY POMEROY.

Messrs. Imbrie and Riggs, were also in attendance. -Mr. Winfield, the
legal adviser of the accused pastor, was among the spectators, as well aa
a host of witnesses in the case ladies and gentlemen.
Tha Moderator opened by announcing that the services of a steno-
'grapher would cost $50 a day. A resolution was thereupon passed that,
no stenographer be employed. The matter was afterward reconsidered
and it was resolved to employ a stenographer at a moderate renumeration,
if practicable.
The Moderator said it would be necessary, now that the trial was being
entered upon, for Mr. Glendenning to plead again. The laLter replied,
"Mr. Moderator, before I plead again I ask that the specification as
amended be read."
The Moderator-The clerk will read all the charges and specifications.
The clerk complied, and when he concluded the reading the Moderator,
turning to Glendenning, said, "Dp you plead guilty or not guilty?" The
latter answered, "Not guilty."
Counsel for the defence, Rev. Mr. Dodd, then moved that the general
principles of law adopted by the civil courts, in so far as they do not con-
flict with the constitution of the Church or the Book of Discipline, be
adopted by the Presbytery.
Mr. Dodd's resolution was put and lost. The Moderator then an-
nounced that the Court was ready to proceed with the trial. Dr. Imbrie
thereupon arose and opened the case for the prosecution. He said:-
Here is a pastor who had preserved a good reputation from the first time
we knew him up to the time when he was charged with the commission
of a foul crime. In this ease the highest, the holiest affections of the
heart were involved in the issue. Justice is to be done to the relations
of her who has passed from the stage of this life. The reputation of our
Church is involved. I earnestly hope that if the accused be innocent we
may, by the providence of God, be enables to see his innocence so clearly
that he will come out of this trial in the eyes of the community fully vin-
dicated. There are four charges presented against this- defendant. The
first is for the seduction of and illicit intercourse with an unmarried
woman. In support of the charge and specification we are going to ad.
duce three kinds of testimony. There is an affidavit which was made be-
fore Justice Aldridge charging bastardy; there is another affidavit charg.
ing seduction and breach of promise of marriage. We contend that the
holding of Glendenning to bail by Judge Bedle is a strong circumstance
in itself to warrant a strict investigation of the charge. The prosecution
is perfectly aware that this testimony would not be admissible in a civil
court, because the person who made the affidavits is gone before a higher
tribunal than any in this world. -We have next the dying statement of
Miss Pomeroy. We are aware that under this civil law such a state-
ment would only be admissible in cases of homicide. But when we show

I"

4

POOR 'MARY POMEROY.

'49

you under what circumstances this statement was Made you will find
there is a moral weight in it which we cannot disregard. We shall prove
the frequent visits at the house of Mrs. Miller, affording an opportunity
for the situation, and will produce such a chain of circumstanceS as shall
prove corroborative testimony of her aflidavits. In regard to the breach
of promise of marriage we shall show that the affidavit of Miss Pomeroy
was considered so strong by a Justice of the Supreme Court (Judge
Bedle) that he felt justified in holding Glendenning to bail. I regret
that the officers of the institution in Clinton place, New York, to which
it is alleged, Glendenning paid a visit, found it necessary to prohibit the
attendance of an important witness, whose testimony would be most valu-
able in this case. I regret it for the sake of Mary Pomeroy's memory
and for the sake of Mr. Glendenning himself. We shall be obliged, on
this point, to introduce indirect testimony. Lest there should be any
doubt as to the credibility of the testimony of Mary Pomeroy we shall
produce a large number of witnesses who will testify to her good char-
acter, showing that she was admitted into the best society. The com-
munity are looking to us for a just solution of this case, and I pray God
that He may guide us in arriving at a just conclusion. (Here the Pros-
ecutor paused a moment, ,while a faint murmur of applause ran through
the assemblage.) Now, Mr. Moderator, in the first place I will offer in
evidence the affidavit of Mary Pomeroy.
Mr. James Smith Miller was the first witness. He testyfied as fol-
lows:-I live in Van Reipen avenue, Jersey City; have known Rev.
John S. Glendenning for two. years; I was acquainted with Mary E.
Pomeroy;. she, was my cousin and lived at my house about eight years;
she lived previously with my father's family; her mother died when Mary
was quite young; when my father and mother broke up house she came
to live with me; she was organist in Mr. Glendenning's church and re-.
ceived pay as such; Glendenning often visited my house; he first came
about two years ago; he would come with hymns; while she was playing
at the piano Glendenning would stand or sit beside her; ho came every
Saturday night for a few months; then his visits increased; I have seen
him at my house as often as three times in one week; I came home as
late as twelve o'clock at night and found him in my parlor with Miqs
Pomeroy; he gave her presents; she told me so; among them was a
ring, a set of earrings, a watch and chain, a thimble, sleeve buttons and
locket (the severall articles were here produced and identified); he gave
her also a heavy hold ring, about the Inst of MAy or beginning of June,
1873; she made a remark to my wife which I did not hear, and my wife
replied, "Why, this looks like business."
Counsel for defence here objected to the reception of this testimony,
and while the discussion on this question was being carried on the Court
adjourned.


POOR MARY POMEROY.

On the second day Mr. J. S. Miller resumed the witness stand and
testified :-Miss Pomeroy showed me her present (the engagement ring),
and I.said, "Why this means'business ;" she answered, "Yes, he does
mean business."
Counsel for the defence objected and the Moderator sustained the ob-
jection.
Dr. Imbrie appealed from thedecision. He said that if such a ruling
should stand and the line of testinmony now being offered be regarded as
merely hearsay evidence and inadmissible as direct testimony the prose-
cution might as well stop. Miss Pomeroy was dead, and the onlytes-
timony they could adduce would be her reported\ conversations. They
had already decided by a solemn note that they were not to be governed
by the rules of a civil court Yet he found that objectiQns against a certain
class of evidence were constantly springing up. They were sitting as a
body to get tt the truth, and they ought not to be hampered by techni-
calities and frivolous objections.
The Moderator's decision was sustained. Dr. Imbrie then asked the
Moderator what constituted testimony in the case, as there was no use
in proceeding further if all the testimony which the prosecution held to
be relevant and of vital importance were to be rule out. The Moderator
replied that the Court would refuse to accept Miss Pomeroy's affidavits
as testimony, but would admit them as information.
Rev. Mr. Edwards said that the Moderator assumed to much in mak-
ing that sweeping declaration in public. He had not the iight to declare
what constituted testimony. The Presbytery alone had the right, and
they were fully competent to control the matter.
After a debate, which at one time promised to continue the whole
afternoon, counsel for the defence withdrew their objections, and Mr.
Miller resumed.
Miss Pomeroy said to me, "He means business,, and he intends to see
you in a few days ;" I was examining the ring at the time; there was
some inscription inside the ring, but I don't know what it was; it was
either in Latin or French; I have not the ring now; she said she gave it
back to Mr. Glendenning for the purpose of getting something on it, or      en
words to that effect ; three or four weeks after she showed me the ring:
she said that Mr. Glendenning was very desirous to see me: I inferred
it was in reference to the proposed marriage between them; they would
sit together for a long time in the back parlor with the folding doors
closed while we would be in the other parlor; he would address her in
my hearing as "Mary," she called him "Glen;" I first became cognizant
of the fact that she was pregnant on the Monday evening before Glen-
denning's arrest; I consulted my lawyer and he advised me to go and
see Mr. Glendenning and that perhaps he would come like a man and
marry her, but that in case he refused we had better be prepared ; we


POOR MARY POMBOY.

bad him first arrested on the charge of bastardy to prevent his going
away; when the officer arrested him he took him to my house; my wife
was talking to him in the parlor; I asked Miss Pomeroy in his presence
whose child that was and she replied, "Glen, I have deceived you--it is
yours;" he replied, "Mary, you wouldn't say so if it were not for the
present surrounding," or words to that effect; Mr. Northrup was in my
house and he said to Mr. Glendenning that he was sorry to see him in
such a situation; Glendenning replied, "Keep your sympathies to your-
self, for you will need them more than I will before we get out of this
thing;" Miss Pomeroy told me that when he attempted the seduction she
refused, and he said it was all right, that they would soon be man and
wife, as soon as he had all his arrangements made; on the night of the
arrest Mr. Glendenning said that he had documents to prove his inno-
cence; I asked Miss Pomeroy what these documents were, and she said
that she had signed a paper to shield him from blame, but she did not
- know what the paper contained; he came to her one evening and handed
her a paper telling her to write as he dictated; after writing some times
she refused to write any more saying that it was not true; he told her
Ahe must write; when she had finished he told her to sign itand she re-
fused; he said, "Mary, look at the position Iam placed in; there are
e           my mother and sister, and if we are found out Iam a ruined man, I will
be brought before the Presbytery and Synod;" she still refused and he
drew a pistol from his pocket, held it over her head and compelled her to
sign it; she told me that she could not remember what that paper con-
tained, she was'so excited and confused at the time.
Counsel for the defence asked for a recess to enable them to have a
copy of the testimony of this witness, as they intended to object to a great
0                             part of it. This proposition led to a long debate. Dr, Imbrie'said that
Brother Glendenniig asked this Presbytery to investigate certain charges
against him. How canthe-investigation take place-if he persists in ob-
jecting to the testimony against him at every stage of the case ? He was
now under a cloud, and if this testimony were to be excluded there would
be an end to the case ana Mr. Glendenning would remain under the cloud
till his dying day.
Rev. Mr. Mesereau said that if theaccused brother would not admit
the solemn, dying statement and the affidavits of the dead girl then, no
0'7       matter what course the.Presbytery might take, that man would be mo-
rally dead as long as he lives. (Here there was a murmur of applause.)
Rev. Mr..Booth said that the glory of God and the honor of the Church
demanded that the Presbytery should probe the case to the bottom. He
regretted, for the sake of Mr. Glendenning himself, that he should go
forth to the world with this case undecided or decided on insufficient
grounds, fr no Church in the country would look at him. If the civil
S

33


34

courts had dealt with'the case Mr. Glandenning would have to father the
child or otherwise. If the Presbytery were to take shelter under tfie
technicalities which debarred the case from the civil courts then Mr.
Glendenning would stand at the close of this case as he did at the be-
giining.
Rev. Mr. Eddy said he felt compelled to declare that every word of
the special pleading on the part of counsel for the 'defence fell like a ham-
mer on the head of Mr. Glendenning. -Here the Rev. Mr. Harkness
jumped to his feet and called Mr. Eddy to order. He became so excited
that' the brethren burst into laughter, at which he fairly boiled with in-
dignation.
Dr. Imbrie hoped for Mr. Gendenning's sake that the defence would
not persist in their course of objections, for a judgment arrived at in the
absence of the very testimony on which the case is actually based would'
h.be set aside by the verdict of the community. Mr. Glendenning would-
go forth under a darker cloud than before and stand condemned before
the public.
Glendenning here interrupted him by saying, "Condemned on what?"
Rev. Mr. Dodd said that if the recess he asked for till next day were'
not granted, to give him an opportunity of consulting some prominent
legal gentlemen regarding the admissibility or exclusion of a certain class
of testimony, he should say firmly he would retire from the conduct of
the defence. A motion was then offered and adopted that a recess be
taken till half-past one o'clock.
THIRD AND FOURTH DAY.-
Mr. Dodd, for the defence, submitted to the Presbytery that while they
were perfectly willing, if the Presbytery should so decide, that the trial
should proceed and that all testimony be admitted, they declined to waive
their legal rights in the case, and they reserved to themselves the right
to sift all the testimony at the summing up of the case, to deniand the
exclusion of hearsay testimony, 'and to protest against any verdict by the
Presbytery if hearsay testimony were admitted. He said that he had
consulted an eminent jurist, and from the advice he received he felt com-
pelled to take this course.
Rev. Mr. Edwards submitted that Mr. Dodd violated the spirit of the
Book of Discipline in going outside of the Presbytery to consult profes-
sional .counsel.
Mr. Dodd.-He is an elder of the Church.
Mr. Edwards-That makesind difference.
After some remarks by Dr. Magee a resolution consentinlg to the pos-
'tion assumed by tIge defence was put and carried.

POOR MARY POMEROY.

I

POOR MARY POMEROY.                        36,
Thie cross-examination of Mr. Miller was then commen.ed:-Mary
Pomeroy was eighteen years old when she came to live with mue; her
father died three or four years ego;-she has only one brother living; he
is in Michigan; the reason- she came to live with me was because when
her father married the second time she disliked to live with her step-
mother; Miss Pomeroy's pay, as organist of the Prospect -avenue Pres-
byterian church, was $100 a year; she used to give it to me as custodian
for her; 1 gave her no receipt, nor did I keep any book account; during
the time Mr. Glendenning was visiting Nliss Pomeroy no other gentle-
man visited her; she did not receive presents from any other gentleman;
I presented her with a ring which contained a stone that resembled
amethyst; there was no inscription on it; I have not the ring with me,
but I will produce it; I think I know where the chain and locket and
thimble and sleeve buttons presented to Miss Pomeroy by Mr. Glenden-
ning were bought; Mr. Rochette, of Jersey City Heights, told me a week
ago that he believed he sold them to Mr. Glendenning; my brother,
Abijah B. Miller, and my brother-in-law, Thomas H. Jones, stopped for
some time at my house; they were there atthe same time; Mr. Miller is
about thirty-two years of age and Mr. Jones about twenty-six; I was
seldom out late in the evening, certainly never out of the street; if I were
out late my wife would not wait up for me; the conversation between
me and Miss Pomeroy in regard to the engagement ring I have related
correctly; I asked her who gave her the present, and she answered that
it was Mr. Glendenining; the reason she stated for giving it back to Mr.
Glendenning  as that she wanted to have the inscription changed; in
regard to her m rriage with Mr. Glendenning we felt encouraged by his
visits, and we t ought that in him she would get a good man; never
spoke to Mr. Glen naing about marrying Miss Pomeroy, nor did I ask,
him  his intentions on the subject, but I said to Miss Pomeroy three or
four times in presence of my wife, that I must go down and see Mr.
Glendenning in regard to his intentions; my wife said I had better wait
and have a talk with Mary herself; we did have a talk with Mary, and
she said that it was all right; my wife then said we had better let the
thing remain so for the present; this conversation passed before Mary
received the engagement ring; I did not remain up at night while Mr.
Glendenning'and Miss Pomeroy would be together at a late hour because
I always had confidence that; Mr. Glendenmning would do nothing but
what was right;  vhen my wife -first discovered that Mary was pregnant
she came to me and said that Mary had been committing a fearful act; I
don't remember how long the conversation between me and my wife
lasted on the subject just then for. we were so dumfounded we could
hardly speak; I was overcome with indignation at the thought that such
a thing could occur under my roof; Mary did not speak a word ; she
lay with her head in my wife's lap; some of the neighbot-s e,ame into my)~


-96

house that evening, but I can't remember the exact language they used;
they denounced Mr. Glendenning; I applied to counsel-in the matter and
-he advised me to have some friends go and see Mr. Glendenning and see
if he would come and marry the girl; I acted on this advice and Mr.
Northrup and Mr. Randall went to Mr. Glendenning; my counsel also
advised me that in case Mr. Glendenning refused I ought to have a war-
rant out -for his arrest; Mr. Glendenning was out on the stoop of Mr.
Hallowell's house in the evening and after some conversation they moved
out and walked together to Mr. Glendenning's house;. Mr. Northrup. and
Mr. Randall followed them; I was on the opposite side of the street in
company with an officer; ,Mr. Glendenning and Mr. Hallowell stood talk,
ing together so long that Mr. Northrup, and Mr. Randall became im-
patient and remarked to me that they would stop there talking till morn-.
ing; the officer then said, "The best thing to be done is to arrest him
there now;'' Mr. Glendenning was thereupon arrested; my wife asked
Mary in the presence of me and my counsel if any other person had ever
seduced her, and she replied that no other man ever did, when Mr.
Glendenning was brought by the officer face to face with Mary in my
house I asked her whose child that was, and she answered it was Mr.
Glendenning's; she used the 'words, "Glen, I have deceived you; it is
yoursI;"  did not knom.what she meant by that, and I asked her after.
wards for an explanation; she told me in reply that on the night Mr.
Glendenning held the pistol over her and made her sign the paper, he
took her hand, made her place it on the Bible that was lying on the table,
and swear that she would never divulge what had passed, come what
may. (Sensation.)
Witness then proceeded to describe minutely the scene in the parlor
when Glendenning was brought in by the officer. When Miss Pomeroy
caught the first sight of Glendenning she staggered forward and would
have fallen had Glendenning not caught her; the language used by wit-
ness to Mary was, "Here is your seducer; if he be, say so to him; if
not, say so to his face;" when witness first heard the report going around'
that Mr..Glendenning had a document which was to shield him in the
case, witness urged Mary to tell him what that document contained, let
weight fall where it might'; Mr. Glendenning had given out through hit
counsel that the.blame would come neater home.
Mr. Glendenning.-Can I interrupt the witness?
Counsel for defence.-No,*'no.
Mr. Wall.-Mr. Miller, you stated that several friends collected in your
house in reference to her seduction. Did. you not fear that publIcity,
would defeat the object you had in view?
Witness.-Not at all; I knew I could trust those persons who called.
Counsel for defence then asked for a suspension of the examination in
order that a commission might be appointed to take testimony on the

S
Ut
it
Ii

POOR MARY POMEROY.

POOR MARY POMEROY.         ,37
part of the defence, as some witnesses for the defence are about to leave
for a distant part of the country. A motion to that effect was agreed to,
and the Moderator appointed Rev. Mr. Eddy and Mr. Martin.
Several questions were put t6 Mr. Miller by members of the Presbytery.
He stated that Mr. Glendenning's frequent visits to his house ceased
about last January; after that he caine seldom, and he did not wear hi
accustomed air of familiarity; Mr. Glendenning was arrested on the 15th
of July..
Dr. Booth.-Weie there ever any suggestions as to the purity of Miss
Pomeroy? A. Never to my knowledge; Miss Pomeroy never went to
Mr. Glendenuing's church after the day we found out her trouble.
The examination of Mr. Miller here closed, and it was read froni the
stenographer's notes to the Presbytery. The other witnesses were dis-
missed for the day.
The Moderator announced that the commission appointed to take tes-
timony would meet immediately after the adjournment of the Presbytery
in the court room. He also announced that one member who was pre-
viously appointed on the commission was set aside on account of his opin-
ions already expressed on the case. The Presbytery then adjourned to
this afternoon.
During the cross-examination of Mr. Miller he was examined very
minutely as to the exact words-of the conversations referred to in his tes-
timony. The Moderator at one time said to him, "How is it, Mr. Miller,
that your memory is so fresh on times, places and conversations when
asked by the prosedution,- but the opposite when asked by the defence ?"
Mr. Miller rejoined sparply, " I state what I know; I won't state ni hat I
don't know."  At another time the witness replied to a inunt from'the
defence, "I appreciate my position, sir; I know I am under oath."
W hen the Moderator was ap)pointing the commission to take testimony
for the defence he named Mr. French. At the mention of this name Rev.
Mr. Vermilyea arose and objected, saying that Mr. French was as inti.
mate friend of Mr. Glendenning and therefore he did not think should he
.placed on such a commission. The Moderator rapped heavily and said,
"The brother is out of order.. He has no right to in 'ke such a remark
before the Presbytery while the case is on trial." Mr Frenel was after-
ward set aside.
The defence labored strenuously to impeach the character of Mr. Jones,
brother-in-law of=Mr. Miller, and it seemed at one time as if Jones, not
Glendenning, was on trial. "Did Mr. Jones live with you ?" "Had he
a night key ?" "Was he ever alone in the house with Miss Pomeroy ?"
" Was he married ?" "What was his occupation ?" "What were his
habitsk" "Wher is he now?" anda score of such questions were put
ato Mr Miller, in rapid succession. The object of the defence in this was
sufficiently apparent.


W8                     POOR MARY POMEROY.
Mr. Randall was the first witness next day. He testified that he went,
in company with Mr. Nort hrup, to Mr. Millers's house on the night of
Mr. Glendenning's arrest; Mr. iallowell accompanied Mr. Olendenning;
Mr. Northrup told Mr. ylendenning he was sorry to see him in such a
position ; Mr. Glendenning laughed, and said that Mr. Noi'thrup would
w ind it serious for himself before he got through with it; witness then
described the scene previously detailed by Mr. Miller, and continued:
Mr. Miller said he would not permit any questions to be asked of Miss
Pomeroy; Mr. Hallowell asked Miss Pomeroy if she did solemnly swear
that Mr. Glendenning was the father of her child; the question wag
repeated three or four times without an answer. Mr. Miller asked Mr.
94  Glendenning if he would marry the girl; he answered that he could not,
under present circumstances; Mr. Miller then asked him what business
he had sneaking into his house at all hours of the night; Mr. Glenden2.
kiing rephied that lhe would explain all that at the proper time; I amfa
member of the congregation of this church; Miss-Poineroy's character
was unexceptionable; never heard a word against her in my life; she,
was a frequent visitor at my house.
Justice Aldridge was recalled. The Moderator here announced that
no person, male or female, under twenty-one years of age would be per-
mitted in the church during this trial. In answer to counsel for the pros-
ecution Witness saidI :-It was my own idea that the dying statement of
Miss Pomeroy should be sworn to, for she expressed no desire on the
subject; Mr. Gordon asked Mr. Glende ning on the night of the arrest
why he did not speak of this matter before ; Mr. liendenning answered
On her account."
On cross-examination the witness said :-The bastardysuit against Mr-,
Glendenming was discontinued because the bondsman (Mr. Gordon)
asked to have the case attended to or that he be released from his bond;
the Overseer of the Poor, Mr. Dudley, came to me and'asked that the
proceed,ings be discontinued because the child was not chargeable to the
city, inasmuch as no application for maintenance had been made; the
Overseer of the Poor came to me and told me that as the mother had died
no application had been made to the city for the support of the child; he,
therefore, had no further ground of action against Mr. Glendenning;
when Miss Pomeroy was making her dying statement she was as calm
and composed as Mr'. Dodd (counsel for defence) would be if he were
going to leave this world; it seemed as if the candle were going out;
she could not sign her name; she might have made her mark; I wanted
to have her mark there so that'people could not question it; there was
not the slightest appearance of excitement.
On the next day Justice Aldridge was recalled. Counsel for the pros-
ecution  questioned  him in regard to the statement made by. Mr

POOR MARY POMEROY.

:j
'E

39

-dlendenning in the Justice's office on the night of the arrest. - Mr. Glen
denning said on that night, " Would'not a written confession clear me?"
The Justice answered that it might, possibly.
Mrs. Ethelinda Miller was then called. She went over the old story
with minuteness'of detail and with deep 'solemnity of manner. After
.sketching the introduction of Glendenning to the deceased the witness
proceeded :-Her strange actionsexcited my suspicions; I communicated
my suspicions to Mr. Miller's aunt and told her that if she knew anything
was wrong she should tell me; it then flashed across my mind that they
were married, but that he did not want his mother and sister to know oft
it; on .the 13th of July, in the morning, I came down the stairs suddenly
upon Mary, and I had only to look at her to see what was the matter; I
turned away in horror and Mary asked what was the matter or whether
I was sick: I said I was sick at heart; I had prepared to go to New
York' and I became terribly excited ; I told Mr. Miller after I returned
from New York and told him that before I stept that night I must know
the facts of the case; I talked with Mary that night about it; she denied
the charge most strenuously and turned very pale ; I asked her whether
she was married and after a great deal of hesitation she gasped out "yes;"
I then told her to go 4nd get her certificate at once; she faltered and fell
.across my knees; "Oh, my God!" I said, "you are not married." (Here
Mrs. Miller was overcome with emotion.) lMr. Miller happened to come
in just then; I said to Mary, "Go for Mr. Glendenning at once;" she
looked up and said it was too late; I told her that he was there in that
house much later than that; I then asked her was Mr. Glendenning the
father of that child, and she said that he was; I took her to her room and
talked'with her, telling her that she brought this trouble upon herself,
but that, after all, I had only myself to blame for going to bed and allow-
ing ainy one to remain in the house, but that I had all the confidence in
the world in her and in him, and that I thought I could trust a miniger
of the gospel; on the night of Mr. Glendenning's arrest, when he came in,
I said I was glad he came, that I wanted to see him on business; he
said, "Pray,'what might that business he?" I told him I wanted him to
be married, and he asked to whom; I told him "To Mary, that you
ruined;" he answered, "No, indeed, mum," raising his hand and shaking
his head in an indifferent way ; I believe I fainted that night, for the next
-thing I recoll I was up stairs.
Mrs. Miller then related the pistol scene as previously described-When
Mr. Glenden      i that if he was found out he would be a ruined man,
and she* Id to him i.astodishment, "And what would it do to me?"
he 'told her to trust to him, that he would stand by her to the very end
and see her all right, but that she must clear him; she then wrote as be
Alictated, and she told me that everything seemed black before her eyes.
Here Glendenning laughed outright, and Mrs. Miller resented it quickly,$


40                   POOR MARY POMEROY.

POOR MARY POMEROY.                    41

saying, with a voice of indignation,."Sir, I don't see anything in this to-
laugh at."
Dr. Imbrie.-I hope the Moderator will preserve order.
The Moderator (rapping).-Order must be preserved. (A murmur of
disapprobation at the unseemly interruption ran through the church.)
Mrs. Mil er continued.-The substance of the document signed by Mary
while Glendenning held the pistol over her head was that he could im-
plicate half a dozen members of his church.
Dr. Imbrie.-Were any names mentioned?
A. There were no names indt; if there were he put them there after
she wrote it; she could not tell any more in relation to the contents of
that document-; Mary gave me the date of her seduction by Mr. Glen.
denning-as the 4th of July, 1873, while we were away in the country; it
occurred in the back parlor. Mrs. Miller then rehearsed the story of her
visit to the Institution for infants, in Clinton place, New York; tlk visit
was suggested by-Miss Pomeroy; Dr. Hubbard, after inquiring about the
case, described Mr. Glendenning accurately, as the man who had visited
the institution six weeks' previously, to have a young girl admitted till
her child should be born; the matron of the institution also described
him and when I showed her Glendenning's picture she identified it at
once, saying, " That is the man; " the physican told her she ought to be'
careful as she might have to swear to it; the matron replied that she
could swear to it; Mr. Pomeroy and Mrs. Metz came with me ; the con-
versation took place in presence of Mrs. Metz; in a conversation with
Mary, when I saw there was a burden on her mind I asked her what the.
burden was; she said that he (meaning Gleidenning) was constantly
accusing her of being intimate with -other men. (Here the witness men.-
tioned the names of eight gentlemen, some of them being members of
Glendenning's church.) He told her that he and Mr. Dean had watched
her and that they saw her walk' home on one occasion with one of the,
gentlemen referred to, and he said that he supposed they had a good time
when they went into the house; he said he could p e she was intimate
with these men; in explanation of that she said that Mr. - once heldl
his umbrella over her head coming from church, but he did. not go into.
the house; I became indignant, and asked her was it possible she took.
all that from him, and she gave me this reply, "It was a rod of iron he,
held over my head; I was in a condition that prevented my saying a
word; I was wholly in his power." (Sensation.) I tried to cheer her,
up, but it seemed as if there was a heavier burden still resting on her; I
told her to tell me whatever was on her miffd, as she had my forgiveness?.
and she drew up her hands and said, "How can I leave this good home,
the best home I ever had in my life?" I told her to cheer up, that she-
should continue to live with us and face the trouble- she replied, "No, I
will die if I leave here and I will die if I stay.'" (Sensation.) At thia$

k

I

time-she was lying in bed in a very weak condition; in the conversation
about the father of the child she said, "I hear that Glendenning is walk-
ing arid laughing through the streets; I wonder if he would laugh if he
came in here to-night and looked at me on this bed from which I Ufgin
to feel I will never rise and saw the misery that he has brought upon
me, and not only upon me, but on you who did not deserve it; I hear
*o, that he is boasting about the child coming nearer home, but as God.
is my judge, John S. Glendenning and no one else is the father of that.
child."
In describing the deathbed scene the witness gave the following new
points:-We wished to have some clergyman come to pray with her, but,
none could be found; Mr. Dunne and Mr. Gordon, both elders of this
church, came and prayed with her; she said to them, "Mr. Dunne and
Mr. Gordon you are both good men; you have heard his story, but you
have not heard mine; in an unguarded moment I fell and John S. Glen-
denning fell with me; and I want to proclaim to you, before God as my
witness, that Mr. Glendenning is the' father of my child; they say he has
got papers, but that does not clear him;" this was said to Mr. Danne;
I was in the room; Mr. Dunne then asked to be left alone with her for a
moments.
The remainder of Mrs. Miller's testimony was a corroboration of that
already published. Regarding Mr. Glendenning's more recent visits to,
Miss Aolurro'y the witness said:-During a part of the year be would
come in stealthily and would be in the house without our knowing it; at
last I heard it from the neighbors, and not liking the rumors that were
going around among the neighbors I spoke to Mary about it and told her
it seemed very singular and that I did not like it.
The cross-examination of Mrs. Miller by Mr. Dodd was resumed:-
Mary told me that when Mr. Glendenning made her swear on the Bible
never to reveal what had happened she meant to keep that oath ; she ex-
plained to me how he used the pistol; she said it was a short pistol and
that he carried it in a case; when he pointed it at her she said, "You
wouldn't shoot me ! why you'd be hung for murder;" he answered, "No
I wouldn't i'd kill myself first;" Mary told me she thought.he would
shoot her; when I asked her about her pregnancy I didn't threaten her;
it took an hour to elicit the confession; I told her I would rather lose my
right hand than have her accuse Mr. Glendenning wrongfully, and I beg-
ged of her to tell me the-whole truth.; it was suggested to me to get
Miss Pomeroy married without publicity; the arrest was distasteful to
me, and it was only proposed to arrest him if lie refuse to marry Miss
Pomeroy; Mary asked to have the child put out to nurse; she did not
take much notice of it at first; the matron in the Clinton place ifant
Asylum positively identified Mr. lendenning, and when she did so she
astonished me'; Dr. Hubbard seemed to be annoyed at the nurse'&amp;

4
4


.POOR MARY POMEROY.

43

identification of Mr. Glendenning, and he told her that she must be care.
ful, as she might have to swear to it; she answered sharply, "So I will
swear to it;" the Doctor's words in reference to the visit of Mr. Glen-
denping were, 'It strikes me that a gentleman answering that description
was here about six weeks ago in reference to the admission of a young
girl who, he said, was in trouble;" the child was named in baptism
"Ella Stuart Glendenning;" it was so named at Mary's request; sie
said to me, "Whose name should I give it but it's father's?" she lived
about three weeks and a half after the birth of the child; when I first
chided Mary about the frequency of Mr. Glendenning's visits and his late
Hours she made all sorts of excuses; she said that the rain prevented him
from going home before late hours many times; I told her to tell him it
was not right and that he would think none the less of her for it; I said
that if she did not tell him I would; when I heard that Glendenning re-
ported he had a package of letters that would clear him, I asked Mary it
she had written any letters to him, and she said she only wrote seven or
eight in answer to notes sent by him; she destroyed all the letters he
sent her, as she said he directed her to do so and that he would destroy
hers; she never at any time hesitated to tell who, was the father of her
child, but she hesitated to tell the time of the seduction; when I asked
her about the document Mr. Glendenning compelled her to sign she said,
"If I were to be killed for it I could not tell word for word what was in
that paper-;" I asked her if she did not understand that his object was to
use it against her; she said that she supposed he wanted it because he
was afraid of getting into trouble. on account of her talking so much about
him; she made her first confession to me of her trouble on Monday night,
-   13th of July last.
To Rev. Mr. Edwards.-Mr. Glendenning's mother and sister did not
H-favor his attentions to Miss Pomeroy, but I never understood the reason
why.,
To the Moderator.-Their engagement was announced among our
friends; we all talked about it, but we did not give it any further publicity;
because I did not like any gossip, for if the old women of this church
got talking of anybody they would pick his or her character to pieces, no
matter how good the person might be-(laughter)-I asked Mary about
the engagement, and she said there was no day fixed for the marriage.
This was the conclusion of Mrs. Milller's examination.
Mrs. Julia M. Metz examined.-I was a member of this congregation,
and had charge of the Sabbath school, but I gave it up; knew of Mr.
Glendenning's visits to Miss Pomeroy; I live near Mr. Miller's; I saw
him at Mr. Miller's a number- of times; I understood he went there-to
visit Miss Pomeroy; his hours of visiting were in the evening; was so-
situated that I had a good opportunity to know of the frequency of his
visits; saw Miss Pomeroy wear a-ring which I was told was given her

,42

POOR M'ARY POMEROY. N

by Mr. Glendenning; knew Miss Pomeroy well4 but not very intimately;
never heard anything against her character; never knew an improper aet
on her part; I noticed that when she was at parties she was more reserved
than usual; never knew anything against her character for truthfulness
untill her prevarication'in this case with Mr. Glendenning; saw her eve-
ry day from the time of Mr. Glendenning's arrest till she was taken sick;
I had conversations with her in which I urged the importance of her tel-
ing the truth, otherwise her friends could not help her; her reluctance to
tell the truth I attributed 'to her strong affection for Mr. Glendenning-
she told mc without hesitation and without being urged that Mr. Glenden-
ning was the author of her trouble; I asked her how long this thing had
been going on, and she saia, "Since last Thanksgiving;" she told me that
if Mrs. Miller, and myself would go into the other room she would tell
us all about it; she then told us, after a great effort, that the last Fourth
of July (1873) was the date; when we spoke to her further she'gave as
an excuse, "I loved him so;" she said that Mr. Glendenning brought
a paper to her one evening and asked her to sign it; she said she could
not, as everything turned black before her eyes: she told him to read it
himself, and be did so, after which he- asked her to sign it; she said she
could not sign that; he then took a pistol out of his pocket and compell-
ed her to sign it; she said, "You don't know what I have suffered from
that man for the past few months:" she distinctly mentioned John S.
Glendenning as the father of her child; she mentioned no one'else; I
went with Mrs. Miller to the asylum in Clinton place to have the child
taken there to be nursed; Dr. Hubbard did not identify the picture of
Mr. Glendanning , buL the matron did at once; she said, "That is the
man;" the doctor cautioned her to be careful, and she said she could
swear to it, I went a second time to the asylum, because my veracity
had been questioned in relation to my first visit, and I wanted the matron
to make an affidavit or sign a paper stating that our statements in regard
to our first visit were correct, as a great deal had been said about it; she
declined, as she said the doctors advised her to, say nothing further about
the niatter and a great deal had been published about it in the papers;
several persons had called in relation to it but she declined to see them
at all; a party of gentlemen-Mr. Glendenning being one of the number
6.-had call d also, and she said that she recognized him at once, they
desired to ee her, but she declined, saying he did not wish to do any-
thing contiary to the orders of the doctors; I remarked to her that that
was ve   insular, as if she had come down to see those gentimen she
eguld tell that Mr. Glendenning was the man arid that would have sett-
led the question; I reminded her that she blid previously identified the
picture and she answered," "Yes, I did, I will not take back anything I
have said,but the officers of the institution have positively forbidden me
to say anything about it."


44

POOR MARY POMEROY.

The cross-examination of Mrs. Metz was commenced next day. The
first question was why she gave up the infant class in the church, and
she replied ;-"I felt I could not consistently come to the church lest I
should meet Mr. Glendenning; I felt that if the elders of the church al-
lowed him to remain here after this terrible affair I would abandon the
church; Miss Pomeroy said that Mr. Glendenning accused.her of being
intimate with several gentlemen (here witness mentioned the names of
six members of Glendenning's church); she said that he constantly threat-
ened he would expose her if she should betray him; I knew Mr. Glen-
denning as a preacher, and formed a very favorable opinion of him; I
thought if a gentleman visited a lady he ought to do it openly and in a
gentlemanly manner and not stealthily. Rev. Dr. Eddy-Was Miss
Pomeroy, in your opinion, a fit companion for a minister? A. She was a
fit companion for any person; if there was any superiority on his side it
was intellectually, not morally.
To Rev. Mr. Edwards.-In my judgment the attentions paid by Mr.
Glendenning to Miss Pomeroy could not with propriety take place with-
out an actual engagement; don't know what is the general impression
with regard to the propriety of such a course in this community, but that
is my own judgment.
To Rev. Mr. Booth-Never heard Miss Pomeroy deny the pistol scene,
The witness, in answer to further questions, stated:
"The character of the intimacy which Mr. Glendenning alleged to ex.
ist between Miss Pomeroy and the gentleman named, I understood to be
criminal; Mr. Glendenning did not go home with her from the meetings,
but went there afterwards; I thought it was very unmanly on his part
not to go home with her, but no follow her soon afterwards."
To Dr. Imbrie-My understanding of her statement that Mr. Glenden-
ning was constantly accusing her of criminal intimacy with other men
was that he charged her thus in order to induce her to submit to his des-
ires.
When- the witness was exainined minutely as to the causes that led her
to lose her respect for Mr. Glendenning, she said that it was very strange
that Mr. and Mrs. Miller never spoke, of him as a visitor; when they
would'call it the house of witness they would refer to him simply by say-
ing "Mr. Glendenning is there,1" meaning at Mr. Miller's house.  The
witness further stated that she thought Mr. Glendenning could not afford
to sacrifice himself by visiting Aliss PQmeroy in such an unmanly way,
and that she was surprised when she heard of the engagement, because
Miss Pomeroy was not interlectually the equal of Mr. Glendenning, but
morally she was the equal of any person.
Mr. Willard E. Dudley examined-I had known Miss Ponieroy seven-
teen years last spring; knew her first when she was living with Jacob
Miller on H~ob'oken avenue in this city; knew her intimately, and can

JV
12

POOIR MARY POMEROY.

45

positively testify that I always knew her to be a truthful, virtuous girl,
and of a very quiet disposition; she was very far from being what is
known as a gay you1g lady; was present when she made her dying
statement to Justice Aldridge; there were six or seven persons present;
she called me by name and called Mr. Aldridge by name (witness here
repeated the words of the dying statement already published, laying
stress'on the sentence, "I was afraid of him once, but I am not now").;
she was perfectly conscious and understood the words she spoke as clearly
as I do now; did not discover any indication that her mind was wan-
dering; did niot think when she made the statement that she would die
go soon; nobody asked her any questions during the making of the state-
ment; she seemed very anxious to make it and tell somebody; she seem-
gd to be relieved when she hade made it.
Cross-examined.-I went for Justice Aldridge at Miss Pomeroy's, re-
quest.
Mr. James Dunne examined...-I am an elder in this congregation; the
other elder is George P. Howell; heard rumors that Mr. Glendenning
was engaged to be married to Miss Pomeroy; I had a conversation with
Mr. Glendenning on the subject and he denied that he was engaged; the
conversation too place last winter'; he left the impression on my mind
that there was no probatbility of an engagement; there was a very un-
comfortable feeling among the elders and members of the congregation
in consequence of his intimacy with Miss Pomeroy; the impression that
prevailed was that Mr. Glendenning visited her much oftener than the
facts warranted; I was sent for to see Miss Ponieroy; Mr. John Gordon
came with me; Dr. Burdett was there; he said she was suffering' from
nervous excitement and that she was wandering in her mind; she said
she was glad to see us, and she recognized us distinctly; she told us that
she desired to say to us that Mr. Glendenning and no one else was the
father of her child; she said, "He may have some papers-I don't know
what they are-but that don't clear him; I couldn't help it;" I asked
her how long this had been going on, and she said about a year; I then
prayed with her; I asked her what she wished to pray for, and she said
that God would forgive her sins and take her to Heaven; before reading
the chapter Qhe said, "In an unguarded moment I fell and he fell with
me;" when she prayed that God might forgive her she, added, "And him
too;" I had no doubt whateverthat "she" referred to Mr. Glendenning,
for it was used in that connection; there were several ladies present up
to this time, and I asked them if they would not leave us (Mr. Gordon
and myself) alone with Miss Pomeroy, and they retired; I then said to
her that it was necessary before she would be forgiven that she should
repent, and it was necessary to her repentance that she should tell the
truth; I then repeated the question whether John S. Glendenning was
the father of her child, and she said "yes;" I then asked her if she ever

4.


46

POOR MARY POMEROY.

had criminal intimacy with any other persons, and she said 'n.-ver;" I
asked her if she ever made any statements contrary to these, and.she
said she never did; I left and called again in the evening, in company
with Mr. C. 0. Jewell, one of the trustees of this church; this was on
the Sunday before she died; Rev. Mr. Tdnison had been there between
my two visits; Mr. Jewell prayed with her; Miss Pomeroy had been a
communicant in this church about two years and a half; never knew
anything against her character, nor did I ever hear anything against her;
never had any misgivings as to the propriety of herfoccupying that po-
sition in the church; spoke to Mr. Glendennin'g about Miss Pomeroy's
assertion to me that he was the father of her chiLd; he denied it by in
plication, but I do not think'he did in terms.
Q. Did you ever have a suspicion that any other than Mr. Glenden-
ning was the father of that child ? A. (after great hesitation) I did.
j Q. Did you ever have any conversation on the subject with the person
you suspected ? A. (A long pause.) I cannot answer that question.
The Moderator here ruled that the witness was not required to impli-
cate a third person, and' the question as put by Dr. Riggs was quite
proper.
Witness...-L had no particular person in my mind; I believed Mr.
Glendenning was innocent, and of ourse some one must be the father
of the child.
To Rev. Mr. Edwards.-Miss Pomeroy was admitted to the com-
munion-of this church on examination; she gave reasonable evidence of
piety and maintained a Christian deportment as far as I had on oppor-
tunity of judging; we received" her without misgivings.
Counsel for defence announced that Mr. Dunne would be required to
attend again in the case.
Mrs. Sarah R. Graves testified that she knew Miss Pomeroy intim ely
for three years and a half; witness lived next door to Mrs. Miller, and
Miss Pomeroy visited her house three and four times a day ; she was a
companion to her daughter; she bore an excellent character; saw her
and Mr. Glendenning walking arn in arm frequently in the evening; he
visited her often ; I have seeni him there three amil four times a week; I
only saw him go in $he afternoon three or four times; his regular hours
of visiting were from seven to nine and after nine at night; saw hin
come out as late as one o'clock at night; Miss Pomeroy told me she was
engaged to be married and showed me her engagement ring; it was on
her finger; I asked her when it was to come off and she said that there was
nio day fixed ; she told me that Mr. Glendenning gave .it to her ; she also
showed me the other presents which she said he gave her;. I, told her, as
I would my own daughter, several times that she ought not to receive
those presents.
Mrs. Sarah Graves, on cross-examination, testified:..-When I asked


POOR MARY POMEROY.

I'

I

Glendenning.

Miss Pomeroy why she allowed Mr. Glendenning to be so intimate with
her, she answered, "I loved him so; he was a minister, and I thought he
would not desert me; oh, God, how could he desert me so! I have-sin-
wed fallen and suffered, and now he has deserted me;;" she said this
distinctly; Mr. Glendenning, in my judgment, sought after Miss Porm-
eroy rather tihan she after him, and I can prove this; on the Fourth of
July last I went with Miss Pomeroy and others to see the fireworks in
Blergen square; on the way home Mr. Glendenning met us, saving that
be had been uptown on an errand and that accounted for his being out
so }0te; I told him we.were going home and he said that if we had no
objection he would accompany us; he walked with Miss Pomeroy, and
-when theft got as far as my gate I asked them in, but he declined, saying
be was going to spend that night with Mary; I saw them parting and
he kissed her; saw him leave her at one o'clock in the morning; he
-walked on the grass past my house.
MIrs. Graves then recited Miss Pomeroy's account of the pistol scene,
wh-ich was a corroboration of the testimony already given, and continued:
When Miss Pomeroy spoke about the name she would give the baby I
;sti(ested the name "Ella;" the child was named "Ella Stuart Glen-
denning;" Mary said the last-name was after the father; when she showed
me her engagement ring she told me not to say anything about it; never
saw any other gentleman visit her during the time Mr. Glendenning was
paying attention to her; she explained to me the meaning of her state-
ment, "Glen., I have deceived you, it is yours," on t-he night Glenden-
ning was arrested; she meant that she had told the secret after her solmn
promise to keep it; she was so scared she hardly knew what she was say.
ing: Mr. Glendenning gave her many presents' such as cuffs, collars, &amp;c.,
and had a paper regularly sent her, for which he subscribed; I felt very
uneasy one night because Mr..Glendenning remained so long with Mary;
I got up, looked out of the window and saw a light in Mr. Miller's par-
lor; saw her pull down the shade and the light's were immediately put
out; the place remained dark about twenty minutes; never knew Mary
to keep company with other gentlemen: she told me that when Mr. Glen-
denning was giving her the presents he said that she might as well have
the presents then, as she would get them some time.
The witness then related the circumstances -attending the deathbed
scene, which was a confirmation of the testimony already given, anda dd-
ed, "After Justice Aldridge went out Mary lookeal at Mrs. Miller and
said, 'take care of my child;'"1' she seemed anxious for Judge Aldridge's
returtn.; I saw the light turned down a great many times in Miss Porme-
roys parlor while Mr. Glendenning was there; spoket to my daughter
about it, but never mentioned it to Mary.
Mrs. Caroline D. Wilson testified.-I knew 'Miss Poreroy after she

:i.


-50                    POOa MARY POMEROY.
was pregnant; knew her parents well when they lived in Ovid; Mary
went to live with Mr. Miller's family because she could not agree with
her stepmother; her mother died in childbirth; I can speak poitively a-
bout her danghter; she was always considered an honest, upright girl,
just and truthful in everything; when I first discovered Mary's trouble I
was sent for to come to Mr- Miller's house; I found Mary crying; she
said to me, "Ohthis is dreadful, dreadful; nobody knows how bad I feel!"
'I asked her who was the cause of her trouble, and she answered that it
was John S. Glendenning; slie said that she had asked limin what he
should do with the baby, and he said', "Oh we can put it in a basket and
leave it on somebody's door stoop, Mary yielded to his wishes because
he said, "Why, Mary, it's allright; you are my little wife;" she express-
ed deep sorrow when she spoke to me and was deeply grieved because she
brought Mr. Miller's family into so much trouble, I spoke to her after
her confinement and she said she did not believe she would live long , she
told me- that the paper -she gave to Mr. Glendenning was intended to
exonerate him; I told her that I would not.give a paper to any man liv-
ing if he wronged me; she answered, "Mrs. Wilson, you don't know
what you would do if you had a pistol presented to your head;" I be-
lieve she told the truth, she said to me, "I don't know anything about
any other man living than John S. Glendenning," she said this very em-
phatically and in a loud tone.
When Mr. Dodd commenced the cross-examination she declined posi-
tively to state -her occupation. She said she was not ashamed of her
business, saying, "I keep a genteel boarding house.10
Mrs. Agae Miller testified that she had known Miss Pomeroy for six-
teen years, and never knew anything improper in her conduct; she was
a very amiable girl; she told witness she was engaged to Mr. Glenden-
ning; used to see Mr. Glendenning and Mary come out of the church
together long after the congregation was dismissed.
Q. Did Mary ever tell you who was the father of the child? A. Why
I never doubted that Glendenning was the father of the child. (Laughter.)
Witness further stated that on one occasion Glendenning and Mary
remained together so long in the church after Sabbath school that Mr.
Miller got mad, and he was going to go over to the church and kick them
out.' (Laughter.)
Dr. John B. Burdett examined.-I did not know4Miss Poneroy;.1 at-
tended her during her last illness; I went there on the solicitation of two
of the neighbors, more particularly that of Mr. Metz; I expected that-
she would recover; she got up too soon and she got cold, but that wfas
not the cause of her dangerous illness; anxiety of mind hastened it; she
=  died of congestion-of the lungs; she was perfectly rational; both lungs
were involved in the congestion; did not tell Mr. Dunne that h'er mind
was wandering. -

POOR MARY POMEROY.

Rev. Mr. Tunison examined.-I am a minister of the Methodist Epis-
copal Church; became acquainted with Miss Pomeroy on the Sabbath'
before her death; never knew her before; went to see her at the solici-
tation of Mr. Metz, wvho said that efforts had been piade to secure the at-
tendaice of ministers of her own Church, but in vain; the excuse was
that they were absent from the city ; she was in a sinking state, and it
was evident that she recognized she was rapidly approaching dissolution;
her first statement to me was that she had sadly fallen, but she expressed
a positive confidence that she would regain hold of Christ, and I could
not doubt her sincerity ; she made no statement as to the cause of her
condition ; I prayed with her; she- expressed her gratitude and entreated
me to repeat my visit ; I called on her three times; I feel it due to my-
self to say that in all these visits I never questioned Miss Pomeroy in
regard to this terrible affair; during my third visit, just before her death,
she used the following words, which I wrote down lest I should forget
them :-" I said to Mr. Dunne on Sunday, and I now say to you, that
Mr. Glendenning, and he alone, is the father of my child; this I say in
your presence, and I call God ,to witness that I speak the truth;" she
was remarkably calm; she said she had made a great effort to regain
hold of Christ, and that hold had been regained; I could not doubt her
religious statements.
On cross-examintation he said:-I saw Miss Pomeroy about two hours
before her death ; her manner impressed me with the truth of her state-
nients, especially when she knew she was about dying, and said so in so
many words; I ,warned her especially against falsehood on this point; I
told -her that absolute truth was indispensable if she would regain het
hold on God.
Q. Did you believe in the truth of her statements ?  A. I will answer
that if it be a proper question here, I did. Q. Did you deliver an address
at the funeral?  A. I did. Q. Did you say then that you would doubt
the existence of a God if the villain who seduced her were not punished
for his sin ? A.' I did, in substance; I said there must be some punish-
ment for the seducer in this world or the next. Q. Did you say that her
seducer when hie inade one misstep became a murderer ?  A. I did, and
worse than a murderer, for lie not only destroyed the body ,ut the repu-
tation as well. Q. Did you say that you hold yourself responsible before
the bar of man for the expressions you uttered on that-occnsion?  A., I
did. Q. Did you rely on Miss Pomeroy's statements solely ?  A. Not
solely, but mainly. Q,. What were your other sources of information ?
A. I decline to answer that question. Witness continued - baptized
the child "Ella Stuart;" I had nothing ut all to do with the name Glen-
denning; the baptism took place before the funeral service.
Mr. Harkness.-Did you suppose when Miss Pomeroy made the state-
mnent that there had been a previous arrangement in regard to it? A. No

51


POOR MARY POMEROY'
fr, I had no such impression; but, perhaps, it might have r ult  from
'y obtuseness. (Laughter.)
'Mr. George P. Howell, an elder of the church, testified-I was aware
,hat an impression prevailed among the congregation that Mr. Glenden-
iting was engaged to be married to Miss Pomeroy; had a conversation
-with Mr. Dunne, the other elder, about it; it was not a ground for un-
,,easiness with me; my feeling was that I regarded it as unwise tIor hint
o show attention in that direction; the first talk about it was over a year
ago, and was pretty general; talked to Mr. Glendenning about it; he
denied positively that he was engaged to Miss Pomeroy; he admitted
that he had made her presents; he said that he gave'her a watch and
"'chain; the reason he gave for presenting the watch was that she was
Labsent on one or two occasions from the organ, and he reproved her for
er absence-; she replied in substance that she had no watch and could
not know the time.
Q. Did he say that he gave her the chain on the same ground? A. I
think he did. (Laughter.)
Elder George P. Howell resume'U the stand on direct examination and
gave the following testimony :-Would not like to answer any further
,question in relation to the presents given to Miss Pomeroy by Mr. Glen-
denning, because it would .involve a breach of confidence between Mr.
glendenning and witness and would shadow a portion of the defence.
The Moderator ruled that a witness was not required to violate con-
~dence.
Mr. Dodd said that the defence had no objection to Mr. Howell's ans-
wering all questions.
Witness continued- Ir. Glendenning gave the chain to Miss Pomeroy
to protect her watch; when Mr. Glendenning denied that he was engaged
to be married he made no explanation in regard to his reasons; -he left
the impression on my mind that he did not seek Miss Pomeroy at all.
Mrs. Clara H. Randall testified :.-I have been a member of the con-
gregation of this church for three years; knew Miss Pomeroy for about
six years; lived nearly opposite Mr. Miller's house; never heard any in-
timation against Miss Pomeroy's character; Miss Pomeroy told me she
received valuable presents from Mr. Glendenning; I saw these presents
-a locket, watch and chain, sleeve buttons, &amp;c.; she never spoke directly
to me about her engagement with Mr. Glendenning, but she -spoke fami-
liarly about him and talked of her future prospects in such a way as to
leave the impression in my mind that they were engaged; knew him- to
visit Miss Pomeroy often; had no curiosity in the matter, but when I
heard that Mr. Glendenning denied his intimacy with Miss Pomeroy I
thought I would satisfy myself and watch; he stayed one night till
twenty minutes 'before twelve, another night till ten minutes past one,
iand another till'five minutes before twi; ~I 'pulled' out my watch to mark

POOR MARY POMEROY.

the time each of these nights ; had a conversation with Miss Pomeroy
about her pregnancy; she said that Mr. Glendenning was the father of
her child.
Q. Did she state that he and be only led her astray ? A. She did,
emphatically; I asked her that question, whether she was ever on crim-
inal intimacy with any other person, and she answered, never; she ex-
pressed very great penitence- for her I)hare in the sin'; she told me it was
her daily prayer that the Lord mig  forgive Mr. Glendenning for what
he had done, for she could not, hough she was constantly praying she
night be able to do so ; she heard that he.denied he was the father of
the child; she spoke of the mainer in which she was deceived, and said,
that she neverthought she could be deceived by one who made so many
promises;.she sent for witness on the Wednesday before her death; found
her very much depressed,; had a long conversation with her on the follow-.
ing morning; she said she was suffering intensely, both physically and
mentally'; that she did not see onebray of light in the fu'ture;'that she
was ruined, disgraced, with a child and without any means; .she said
that no one except Mr. Glendenning ever made improper proposals; when
I saw her heart-broken condition that morning I resolved that, if I ever
had an opportunity to speak in her defence I would" do so; she was a
fallen woman, but a woman still; she said she realizedher situation fully;
she was in full possession of her senses during this statement; she spoke
of threats made against her by Mr. Glendenning;, she said he asked Ifer
to help hin out of his difficulty and he told her to do as he wished her
(witness here detailed the pistol scene); on the night he compelle'd her
to sign the document she said he placed her hand on the Bible and she
solemnly swore she would never reveal either her condition or implicate
him; she intended to keep that oath; this explained her words on the
night of Mr. Glendenning's arrest-" Glen, I have deceived you, it is
yours;" she said she did not think she could live, and added, "If I live,
where am I ?" she said she would like to live to see Glendenning brought
to justice; she always spoke of her own guilt first in her conversation on
the subject.
Q. When Mr. Poneroy said that Mr. Glendenning promised to stand
by her, what did you understand by that? A. That he wonld take care
of her till the time should come for him to marry her.
Mrs. Reeves testified :-Knew Miss Pomeroy; she was of a very good
character; have seen Mr. Glendenning visit at Mrs. Miller's very often;
he went to see Miss Pomeroy in particular; she told me they were en-
gaged; I asked her when the affair was coming off, and she said she did
unot know herself; she showed me her engagement ring; she had it on
her finger; she mentioned uo name when she said she was engaged.

58


POOR MARY POMEROY.                     55

A TELL-TALE LETTER.
Read a note from Mr. Glendenning. to Miss Pomeroy; she received
t on the morning of the 12th of May last; there were not more than half
a dozen lines in it; It read in this way, as near as I can recolle t:
DEAR MARY. I wish you would be ready by half-past seven this evening, a d
we will go either to New York or Jersey City. I want you to look your prettiest.
Yours,
GLEN.
Am not sure whether it was "Your own Glen," or Yours, Glen.'"
Witness then described the death bed-scene and continued:-Mr. Glen-
denning and Mary were at my children's christening; he was in the
habit of taking her to different places frequently; she used to tell me she
was out with him in the evenings at concerts  r for a walk; was in tLe
church when a set of silver was presented to Mr. Glendenning; Mary
and he and I were talking and I said, fully believing they were engaged,
"They will beso nice to clean when you get married;" Mr. Glendenning
replied, "That's so, Mrs. Reeves."
Mrs. Fanny S. Birmingham   examined :-I knew Miss Pomeroy m-
tihnately; never knew anything, against her character; I was on such
intimate terms with her that I would have heard if anything of the kind
were said about her; I called to. see her five days before her death and
she said she was suffering both in mind and body; she saidit was hard
that she should suffer and that Glen should go free; I asked her was
Glendenning the father of the child and she said yes; she turned from
side'to side and groaned.
Mr. Cyrus Thatcher testified to the good character of Miss Pomeroy.
He. had ample opportunity of judging, as he had teen connected with
Mr. Miller in business for eight years; Miss Pomeroy always moved in
good society.
Mrs. Alvina Grattan, who was acquainted with, Miss Pomroy fof
twelve years, also testified in her excellent character; Miss P omerov
told witness that Mr. Glendenning was the father of herohild ; she spoke,
as if she.thought a great deal of him ; she said she loved him dearly, and
would as soon have doubted her saviour as have: doubted him; she used
these very words; she did not speak of any one else.
A discussion here took place on the question of admitting rebutting
evidence for the prosecution. The defence resisted the proposition. The
subject had not been decided wh-en the hour of adjournment arrived.
The argument oh the question of admitting rebutting testimony on the
part of the prosecution was resumed. Rev. Mr. Edwards urged in a
forcible argument, that the prosecution haf a right to introduce new tes-
timony. He regretted the declaration of Mr. Dodd, some days ago. that
unless certain points were yielded he would be obliged to withdraw.
"Now, Mr. Moderator," continued the speaker, ''This defendant cannot

withdraw. He is in the hands of this Presbytery. If he should attempt,
to relieve himself of his attendance before tihe Presbytery during the in-
vestigation of these charges then tie Presbytery can cite him again, and
if he refuse to appear we can depose him."
Mr. Dodd here explained that when he made that statement he in-
tended to convey simply that he intended to -withdraw as counsel for the
defence.
Mr. Edwards rejoined that when counsel makes a declaration of that
kind it is always understood that his client is involved and responsible
for the declaration.
After a long debate the resolution offered by the prosecution in favor
of the admission of rebutting testimony was laid on the table.
Mr. Ira K. Miller, of Yonkers, examined-Knew-Miss Pomeroy since
she was a baby; my acquaintance with her commenced in Ovid, N. Y.;
never heard of a blemish in her character; my personal knowledge of her
was that she was a pure, virtuous girl; I considered 'her a fit associate
for my daughter, with whom she was intimately acquainted ; never saw
Mr. Glendenning till to-day; I heard her frequently spoken of in Ovid
and always in the highest terms, never heard -anything about her but
what was good till this affair.
Mrs. Mary Haskins, a nurse, testified-I was with Miss Pomeroy dur-
ing her sickness; I told her on the Sunday before Mr. Glendenning's ar-
Test that I was at church and saw Mr. Glendenning; she asked me how
he looked and I said he looked good; (told her I was surprised. to find
her in such a condition and she said she was surprised herself, as Mr.
Glendenning had promised to make her his wife; she told nie that she
never had criminal intimacy with any man but Mr. Glendenning and he
-was the father of her child ; I asked her the date of her seduction and
she told me July 3, 1873; the intimacy was continuous; she said that he
told her that he had engaged a place in New York 1to put her in during
vacation; he said he could not marry her just then, as his mother and
his sister, and the congregation would not permit it.
On cross-examination witness said-Miss Pomeroy frequently wished
to see Mr.-Glendenning, but I laughed and said I did not think he woulai
like to see her.
Mr. Joseph F. Talson, a venerable-looking gentleman, testified-Knew
Miss Pomeroy fifteen or sixteen years; she went to school with my chil-
dren and I saw her every week since then ; she played the organ in the
West- End church ; I never heard anything against her character;. I
would suspect almost anybody else to be guilty of anything wrong rather
than her -I saw her and Mr. Glendenning together on the 5th July in
Broadway, at West End; when I came near them  he walked away; I
Thought it was very strangeT; when I came up to where she was stand-
ing I raised my hat and bowed to her, but she never spoke to me; I

4
54,                POOR MARY POMEROY.


POOR MARY POMEROY.

thought it very-curious, as she always before spoke to me so pleasantly:
she seemed to ba iii great distress; she was weepiing and holding he.
handkerchief to her face; -Glendentnig walked off towards the Bergea
church; when they saw me coming I saw him make a motion of his hand
to her as much as to say, "you go that way and I'll go this way;" I
thought it was very strange etiquette for a gentleman ; ten days after-
wards I read in the papers of Mr. Glendennsng's arrest:
On cross-examination the witness admitted that he was chairman-of the:
indignation meeting; he was-called to take the chair by acclamation: he
would occupy the same position to-morrow, because he was the father of
children; he had no animosity against Mr. Glendenning; on the contrary
he respected the man, because as a minister he was the representative of
his heavenly Father; he loved the man but not his acts.
Mr. Henry A. Hellerman, Postmaster of Hudson City examined-I
have been engaged in this uhurch as manager of their music; saw Mr.
Glendenning and Miss Pomeroy together on the Sunday evening before
Mr. Glendenning's arrest; after evening service I went away, leaving the
two together in the church; no one else remained; it was about nine
o'clock in the evening; don't know how long they remained in the church,
as I went 'directly home.
Mrs. Nelly Gracestock examined-I live at No. 115 Eleventh street,'
New York; I was engaged at the Infant Asylum, No. 24 Clinton place,.
as housekeeker or matron; one evening a gentleman called at the house
and saidhe wanted to get a friend into the institution; I asked him if he
lived in the city and he said he did not';I referred him to Dr. Hubbard;.
sometime afterwards Mrs. Miller and the brother of Miss Pomeroy came
and inquired about the man who called; I described the man, and when
she showed me the picture I said, "that is the man;" the likeness is per--
fectly clear ; Mr. Glen -ening and several gentlemen came afterward
and they had an interim I with the head nurse; the doctors told me to,
have nothing to say about it, but now that I am out of the institution I
have been advised to come out and tell all I know; Dr. Foster, one of'
the head physicians, said to me, in relation to the matter, "Nelly, yog
had better be careful, you might have to swear to it;" the first time Mr..
Glendenning called he appeared to be very much agitated; I said to Dr.-
Nicolls and the head nurse that Mr. Glendenning and his friends were
down stairs; no one told me who he was.
Cross-examined-It was about the Ist of July when the gentleman
called; it was near dusk. the second time he called I had not yet known
his.name; Mrs. Miller had showA me the picture, but she never told me-
his name; Dr. Foster told me to say nothing about it, as it was a house
where they kept secrets, and they did not want to have them divulged;
ince I left the institution one of the attending physicians, Dr. Elisha

Harris, of the Board of health advised me to come over and tell what I
knew about it.
Dr. Eddy-Is that gentleman present? A. Yes sir; there he is (point-
ing her sunshade directly at Glendenning,-who was sitting about twelve
feet off facing her). The answer was follow d by applause front the spec-
tators, continuing for several seconds.
Rev. Dr. Imbrie )rotested against the demonstration and said the pros-
vcution disclaimed sympathy with any such interruption.
In answer to- another question witness stated:-"I looked over there,
particularly when I entered the churbh, because I recognized Mr. Glen-
denning at once. I did not know that I would meet him here."
Rev. Dr. Imbrie announced that the prosecution rested their case here.
They might find it necessary to introduce new witnesses in the rebutting
testimony, and he would asl the Presbytery for permission to do so when
the time should arrive.
THE DEFENCE.
The defence offered their case without preface or statement by intro.
ducing Miss Jennie Dog ett' as the first witness. She testified-I am a,
member of the Prospect a enue church; was acquainted with Miss Pom-
croy; had a conversation with her during the summer of 1873 about a.
report concerning Mr. Glendenning and herself; she told me at there
'was no more between her and Mr. Glendenning than there was ,between
him and me;' she wore an amethyst ring.
Cross-examined-I asked her if that was her engagement ring, And
she said no; that it was given her by her cousin; did not notice both
her hands; she might have had a ring on the other band without my
seeing it.
Miss Hannah L. Brown examined-Am a member of this church; had
a conversation with Miss Pomeroy in regard, to her relations with Mr.
Glendenning; in the first part of last December she showed mne an aine-
thyst ring%; I asked her was this her engagement ring, and she said no,
tha she never had such a thing and was not engaged.
O   cross-examination witness, testified-The, reason I had for asking
her whether that was her engagement ring was that there wi a )re-
valent talk around here that she and Mr. Glendenning were engaged ;
thought by her actions that she wanted to force herself upon Mr. Glen-
denning; he (lid not want to show her any attention.
Q. How do vou know that?   A. (a long pause)-She used to stay in
the church after service; this was only a conclusion in my own mind;,
had personal knowledge of Miss Pomeroy's remaining, but had no per-
-sonal knowledge of Mr.-Glendenning's remaining.

5T

POOR * MAR'Y POMEROY.


58                  POOR MARY POMERUOY.

POOR MARY POMEROY.

Miss Ellen Cairns testified-Ain a member of this church; Miss Pomn-
eroy was asked by me to join a young lady's society and she joined it;
two or three months afterward she denied that she had joined it; I in-
trusted her with the sale of tickets for a concert and she said she sold
Them allI, when she came to make returns she said she had sold none:
in both these instances she was decidedly untruthful I think it was
MIss P1oiieroy that sought Mr. Glendenning- I said on one occasion in
Mrs. Agnes Miller's that Mary ought not to throw herself so much in
Mr. Glendenning's way, and that if she took this advice the thing would
1rop; I have a verv high estimate of Mr. Glendenning's character; I
nvver thought he would push himself into the societyof young ladies-,
he was agreable to ladies and pleasant.
Cross-examin d- Iiss Pomeroy was a member of good standing in
this church ; she laid herself too much in Mr. -Glendenning's way; Mr.
Glenlenning never told me that Miss Pomeroy's attentions were unpleas-
ant to hinm, nor did I ever hear that he intimated so to any one else ; nevet
had any doubt about her giving in the money; we knew that what she
collected she would give in.
Hoiace Dean testified:-Aim a member of this church; have beop
superintendent of theSunday school for a year; Miss Pomeroy was one
of the teachers; there was nothing in Mr. Glendenning's conduct toward
her more than to any other lady, but she took every opportunity to throw
herself in his way; when he and I would be going out of the church she
would vi4ylay us; I use the word waylay because it amounted to just
that; my opinion of Mr. Glendenning is that I would not be afraid to
leave him in company with my wife or daughter. (Laughter.)\ His
conversation was as pure as that of any woman could be. (Renewed
laughter, which was quickly.suppressed.)
Cross-examined-Other young ladies passed out of the church, but she
renaine(l ; I knew positively there was no engagement between them.
Q. How did you know?    A. I knew that such a thing was not pos
sible. (Laughter.)
Q. Tell us why you did not think it possible. A. I would rather not
state the reason at present; I was very intimate with Mr. Glendenning,
yet I knaw little-or nothing of his inner life; Miss Pomeroy was not at-
tractive in any way, either in education, manner or ability; Mr. Glen.
donning permitted her approaches because he could not well help him-
self. (Laughter.)  He took measures some time ago to prevent her ad-
vances.
Q. What were those measures? A. I do not wish to state them now,
if you will excuse me. (Laughter.)  The witness threw out all manMier
of insinuations and evaded direct answers to nearly every question.
Miss Mara-aret J. Munroe examined-Am a member of this church;
knew Miss Ponmeroy for three years; she spoke of Mr. Glendenningr as

kig kimd to her ; she said that one occasion she contrived to e at the
Post Office when he -got there for his letters; she showed me her watch
and chain; she said she bought the chain herself; on the 5th of June
last she told, me that the neighbors thought she was engaged, but that
she was not; she said she was very badly treated by her cousin, and
that she worked like a slave; I remarked that she ought not to be afraid
of her cousin, and she answered, "Oh, you don't know; he is a very un-
On cross-examination witness stated that she suspected Miss Pomeroy
was throwing herself in Mr. Glendenning's way, because she used to re-
main in the church after service;  he often remarked to her that it was
disgraceful ion her part to be following him so.
How did you know she was throwing herself in his way? A. Be-
cause I was in the church and saw her remain.
Were you, than, not suspected (laughter)? A. Well, I don't know as
I was; I could not make a companion of her because I thought she was
too bold; don't know what the opinion was in this community as to her
reputation.
Dr. Smith Bartley testified-I am a member of this church; visited
the foundling asylum in Clinton place for the purpose of ascertaining
whether Mr. Glendenning was the man who called there; I was ascom-
4    panied by the Rev. Mr Moore, Mr. Glendenning and Mr. Jewell; I had
known Dr. Hubbard a great many yetrs, and therefore I called on him at
that institution ; I asked him if he had ever seen Mr. Glendenning before,
and he said he'had not, but he would not swear to it; we called on Mrs.
Graystock, and Mr. Moore asked her if she had ever seen that man be--
fore, and she said no; we supposed we were speaking to Mrs. Graystock
but we were mistaken; we then sent for Mrs. Graystock, but she would
not see us.
The defence then offered in evidence a certificate signed by Dr. Hub-
bard that he had not to his knowledge seen Mr. Glendenning previous to
his visit with the foregoing witness.
Mr. C. C. Jewell, examined-Called on Dr. Hubbard in reference to a
statement in an evening paper concerning Mr. Glendenning's visit to the
asylum in Clinton place; he pronounced the statement to be a mass of
inaccuracies, and he drew his pencil through several passages.
Dr. Dodd proceeded to read the mutilated article remarking as he went
along what particular passages were scored. Dr. Imbrie asked how much
of what was read was scored. Dr. Dodd said that it made no sense and
Dr. Imbrie quickly rejoined: "Oh, but it makes very good sense."
(Laughter.)
The witness simply rehearsed the interview with Dr. Hybbard and the
nurse at the asylum.


POORI MAIRY POMEOROY.

POOR MARY POMEROY.

lev. W. L. Moore testified:-I visited the foundling Asylum in Clin-
ton place for the purpose of ascertaining from Dr. Hubbard whether an
article published in regard to Mr. Vilendenning's visit there wArs true; the
Doctor made a correction on two pieces of paper-furnished by Mr. Jewell;
I saw the nurse and showed her the article, asking her if she was the
person referred to in it; she ansverred no; that it referred to the matron;
we sent for the matron, but she sent word that she declined to see us;
Dr. Hubbard was not distinctly asked if he could identify Mr. Glenden-
Uing; his answer was, "I never saw that man before."
Dr. Dodd here stated that the defence had very great difficulty in pro-
euring the attendance of witnesses.  One gentleman, whose business
presses upon him in? New York, stated that he could attend only in the,
evening. A young lady, whose testimony was important, refused to
come at all.
Rev. Dr. Edwards-Is she a member of the church ?
Dr. Dodd-Yes.
Dr. Edwards-Then our duty is plain.
The Moderator-It would be very hard to turn a modest, diffident girl
out of the church because she refuses to come here and testify.
Dr. Edwards-It is a clear case of conscience, sir, to which we cannot
yiell                                                          L
Rev. Mr. Edwards stated that 'the young lady whose testimony was
so eagerly sought by the defence had disappeared and refused to testify.
Rev. Dr. 'Riggs proceeded to cross-examine the Rev. Mr. Moore  The
witness was also placed in the crucible by Mr. Edwards. In answer to
the questiou how he came to meet Mr. Glendenning in New York when
they were going to the infant Asylum he answered that. he knew where
to find him in New York, as he had visited him there before.
Rev. Dr. Imbrie, one of the prosecuting committee, was the next wit..
ness called for the defence. He testified that he visited the asylum in
Clinton place for the purpose of securing the attendance of the nurse as
a witness; he thought he could induce the officers of the institution to
permit the nurse to come without infringing on any of their rules; Mrs.
Wetmore told him that the nurse was gone from the institution and that
she was a very gossipy woman ; he made a strong appeal to the phy-,
sicians in view of the great importance of the issues involved in the case,
but they were inflexible. stating that the rules of the institution must be
preserved ; the witness further asked Mrs. Wetmore if she would have
any objection to.come over and testify to the character of the nurse, as it
was of the greatest importance that the question should be settled;- she
answered, however, that she did not like publicity, and she knew her
name would get into the papers if she- did so. The physicians infornied
him that the nurse was not sent away on account of this matter. -During
the progress of the trial the prosecuring committee obtained information 2

61

as to her whereabouts in New York and they brought her forward. She
volunteered to come and testify in the case. They told her that they
wanted her simply to tell the truth. The prosecuting committee never
saw her till within two hours before she came on the stand to testify.
She came directly from Mr. Metz's house, just at the time when the pros-
ecuting committee were about giving up all hope of seeing her.
Mrs. Glendenning, mother of the accused pastor, was the next witness.
She walked into the church leaning on the arm of the Rev. Mr..Wall.
She appeared very weak and nervous, having just recovered from illness.
She testified:-My son was born in Western Pennsylvania, seven miles
from Pittsburg, in 1849; he is not accustomed to be out in the evenings
my daughter was accustomed to accompany him to and from the church;
he was out as late as teen or eleven, but not often; my daughter or my-
self invariably waited up for him; never knew hinr to be out alone as
late as one or two o'clock; he was out late with my daughter at parties;
knew that he called on Miss Pomeroy sometimes; his salary is $2000;
be keeps hous nd supports his family; he has many other expenses,
such as purch sing books, so that his means, are limited; he did not
have much idea of the value of money; he was too free ; did not think
much of his giving presents to Miss Pomeroy, as she was our organist
4and a poor girl.
What is your opinion regarding his insight into female character?,
A. I think he don't know much about it. (Laughter.) The witness ac-
counted for his whereabouts on last New Year's Day, Thanksgiving,
and at other times important to the defence. She-said that on the 4th
of July 1814,-he was at home 'Most of.the day; that he went out in the
afternoon and soon came back and took his sister to the fireworks.
Witness continued-They returned home about nine o'clock; he after-
wards took a walk up the street on an errand for us, but did not stay
long; he has a pistol, but he did not often carry it ;_ he did not carry it
June 1, anid July 16 of this year; at night he wouldlay it on a chair be.
side his bed to frighten anyone who might come in; I saw it on the chair
and it was pointed to his head, some clothes having been thrown on the
chir; I got frightened and took the pistol and locked it up; I kept it in
my possession.
The witness here detailed a conversation with Miss Clinton, which
was simply impugning the character of the Miller family and Miss Pom-
eroy, but she would relate no specific charge. The prosecution objected
on the' ground ' that in a matter involving the reputation of the Miller
family they should have Miss Clinton herself examined. As she had
refused to appear and testify in the church a commission should be ap..
pointed to take her testimony:-.Messrs. Eddy Marshall, Booth, Fisher,
Waterbury' and Halsey were appointed.
Cross-examined--...Don't think my son ever complainedd to me about

60

I


62                   POOR MARY POMEROY.

Miss Pomeroy endeavoring to attract his attention ; never knew him to
make any presents to Miss Mary Pomeroy except the locket; if he went
often to see her I would know it, as I always found him a truthful boy;
believe I know hQw he spent all his money; did not think there was any
imprudence on the part of a minister making presents to a members of his
congregation; heard a rumor of my son's being engaged to Miss Pom-
eroy; did-not believe it to be true; he told my they were not engaged.
Q. Will you state from your own knowledge whether he was never -
out late without your knowing it, or, in other words, can you recall every
evening from the 1st of January last? A. I can say positively he was
not out alone a single hight during that time; did not know anything
about Miss Pomeroy's character; but I thought she was a very bold girl;
saw her walk with gentlemen; I knew two of them; heard other things
about.her that I did not like; thought she was very impudent to young
gentlemen.
Dr. Riggs' two-edged querry. Q. How is it, then, that you did not
think it improper foryour son to make her presents? A. (with hesitation)
I did not-well,1I did not see much about it; often told him that if he
could not come out of the church without being subjected to annoyance
by her I did not see how he could get along at all.
Miss Agnes N. Clinton testiled:-Mr. Glendenning visited me one
Saturday evening at the house of, my cousin, Mrs. Agnes Miller; while
he was talking to me in the parlor Miss Pomeroy was standing outside
on the stoop; Mr. Miller went to the door and saw her at the window
looking in through the blinds; she showed me her watch and she said
she bought it herself in New York; she told me there was no connection
between her and Mr. Glendenning; she said this in presence of Mrs.
Agnes Miller; Miss Pomeroy was not pretty; she had not many gentle-
men admiirers; don't think she ever kept company with any one but Mr.
Glendenning.
Q. Did you ever state to Mrs. Glendenning that the Miller family was
a bad family ? A. I never did.
Q. Did you ever say that Miss Pomeroy was as bad as any of them
A. Never. (Movement among the audience.)    The prosecuting com-
mittee smiled at this valuable piece of information furnished so mag-
nanimously by a fitness for the defence.
Dr. Imbrie:-Miss Clinton, did you evei find TMr. Glendenning and
Miss Pomeroy alone in the church ? A. Yes, sir, I came into the church
one Sabbath after. the Sabbath school had been dismissed, and while I
was talking yith Miss Poneroy Mr. Glendenning came out of the-parlor
and said he had been asleep; I said it must have been a short nap, bur
I doubted it.; he said he did not know so many people had left the church
en the following day be told me he did know, so I found him out in a lie
(laughter); I went away from the church, leaving Mr. Glendenning and


POOR MARY POMEROY.                      65
Miss Pomeroy alone; I saw him go into Mr. Miller's one evening;.he
Aid not know I saw him; next day he told me, he was not there at all;
I told him I saw 1iin, so I found him out again (laughter).
Q. What was your opinion of Mr. Glendenning? A. \I loved him~as
my pastor.
And what of Miss Ponieroy? A. She was a perfect lady.
Q. Did it ever, appear to you that Miss Pomeroy was obtruding her-
self on Mr. Glendenning? A. Well, at first I kind of thought so, but
when I saw him wait on her in the parlor and walk through the street
with her then I began to think that Mr. Glendenning wanted to see her
as much as she wanted to see him. (Laughter.)
Q, Do you attend this church ? A. No, sir; I thought I would stay
away till this thing was settled up; I would not come to testify here, nor
have anything to say in the case only for the testimony Mrs. Glendenning
gave to-day; heard that Mr. Glendenning and Miss Pomeroy used to be
together in ice cream saloons. (Laughter.)
The witness was subjected to a severe'eross-examination.
Mrs. Caroline Wetmore testified :-I an head of several committees in
charge of thej Clinton Place Nursery, New York; there has been no
matron in the asylum; Mrs. Greystock was a servant there; she was a
poor, friendless woman, who was taken in as an inmate; when her child
died she was employed as a wet -nurse at $8 per month; she filled that
position about six months; she attended the door and did the errands; I
-enjoined silence on her with regard to the transactions occurring in the
establishment. The remainder of her testimony was devoted to the con-
tradiction of "Nelly's" statements, as witness styled the nurse. The
witness said that she was very careful in her conversation with Mrs.
Metz, as there were so many mis-statements in the papers about the case
she was very cautious what she would say to Jersey City people.
(Laughter.)  She cautioned "Nelly" not to see any Jersey City people,
and not to come over to testify on either side of the case; but, though
she cautioned her repeatedly, she knew she would come. (Laughter.)
She was satisfied that "Nelly " knew nothing at all about this case, but
manufactured her statements. (Laughter.) "Nelly" was a pure vir-
tuous woman, but very untruthful. . (Laughter.) The witness protested
:so much and rattled off her testimony so volubly that there were repeated
manifestations of merriment among the audience. One(sentence was par-
ticularly relished:. "I could tell you from here till to-morrow (stretching
out her arms in a gesture of astonishment) of the story telling of that
woman."   B ut when she was relating her experiences of the three classes
of females with whom she came in contact at the asylum and the state-
mnents of such persons .regarding the authors of their ruin, she dropped .
one sentence which elicted a loud expression of horror from the audiene
.56


$8- .                 POOR MARY POMEROY.
as the object and venom were too palpable. "My experience is that in'
cases where a woman takes an oath as to the father of her illegitimate
child that must be her second child." This reply seemed to astound even
the committee for the defence, and Dr. Dodd announced that he had no
more questions to ask. The witness, however, was not to be disposed,
of so easily, for she followed with thi explanation: "I*once knew a girl
who told me on her dying bed that she was going into eternity with a
lie on  her lips; that she would rather lie and lose her soul than betray
her friend; and I know she did so die, for she had an object in view, and
when a woman has an object in view'she-well, she generally accom-
plishes it." (Sensation.)  "Nelly " told her that when Mr. Glendenning
called at the asylum he had his hat pulled down on his eyes, but she did
not.believe her. (Laughter.) The witness pointed at Glendenning with
her umbrella and said that she recognized him the moment he entered
the church from a photograph which the Rev. Mr. Moore showed her at
the Clinton place institution. This was followed by anothe- movement
among the audience, and it began to appear as if the- defence could not,
prevent her from telling a little too much. The most humorous state-
ment was that "Nelly," when she went out, alwayssaid she had been
to Mrs. Wetmore's, and the girls said I must have been bored to death..
Mrs. Morford, another of the ladies in. the Clinton place institution,
testified that Mrs. Greystock was very unreliable and untruthful; she
told witness about a gentleman calling at the institution with reference
to the admission of a young girl; he had his hat over his face; Mrs.
Greystock never told witness, however, about it till after Mrs. Miller
had called. On cross-examination she was asked what was Mrs. Wet-
more's estimate of "Nelly's" character, and the witness replied. "Why,'
she thought 'Nelly' was perfect." (Laughter.) Here was a direct con-
tradiction of the previous witness.
Dr. Dodd asked for )the appointment of a commission to take the tes.
tinony of Mrs. Middleton, No. 313 West Thirty fifth street. The, Rev.
Dr. Eddy, Rev. Mr. Egbert and Rev. Mr. Martin were appointed. The'
defence had expected other witnesses, and as they were not in attendance,
the Presbytery adjourned.
Dr. Hubbard, of the Clinton place Asylum testified that a young man
made application for the admission of a young girl who, he said, was in
trouble; he told the man to call next day, but he did not come; he ad-
mitted that he said a man bearing the description given by Mrs. Miller
the man was dark, but now that he had come to think he would say he
was of a light complexion; the man who called did not state where he or
the young girl lived.
Mr. Seth Wilbur Payne, editor of the Daily Press, of Jersey City, tes'
tified :-I called on Myr. J. S. Miller to obtain information in regard to
this case; Mrs. Miller stated to me that Mr. Glendenning was the

POOR MARY POMEROY.                      67
author of Miss Pomeroy's trouble, and that Miss Pomeroy was forced by
extreme means to tell who brought her into trouble; Mrs. Miller said she
threatened to lock her up if she did not tell; she said that Miss Pomerov
repeatedly denied afterwards that Mr. Glendenning was the father of her
child; this conversation took place the evening after Miss Pomeroy's
death;MiMrs. Miller spoke about thepistol scene; sie said that Mary had
denied it; in telling the story Mrs. Miller acted it pretty well.
Cross-examined.--I came away from the house with the impression
that Mr. Miller did not believe the story of the pistol scene; had a con--
versation with Mr. Glendenning in regard to the affair; he said he had
nothing to give to the public just then about it; could not swear to Mrs.
Miller's exact language.
Miss Mary Glendenning, sister of the accused pastor, testified:--I have
always resided with my brother; he is accustomed generally to spend his
evenings at home and to escort me to and from church; knew that he
was out one night with a college friend till after one o'clock; have been
vut vith him as late as one o'clock; one of us generally sat up for him
till be came home; on the evening of July 4, 1873, be was at home. till
the afternoon. The witness was interrogated as to the whereabouts of
her brother on certain days and the kind of clothing he wore during last
summer.
Cross-examination....-Don't know how many evenings in the week my
brother would be at home; he was usually out four evenings in the week;
he attended the choir meetings; he visited much during the winter, and
I understood he visited as a pastor; his visits were mostly in the evien-
ing; lately he has not made any pastoral calls and very few social calls;
heard reports among the congregation that my brother was engaged to
Miss Pomeroy; always felt confident that he was not; he said he was
not; think that he avoided her as she was annoying him; never knew..
that he made presents to her, but heard that be did so; when I spoke to
him about his intimacy with her he said that he did not think she meant
any harm; she forced herself, in my opinion, on his notice so that he
could scarcely avoid her.
During the cross-examination Rev. Mr. Harkness undertook to call
Dr. Imbrie to order, but the latter gentleman retorted promptly and Mr.
Hlarkness subsided.
Mr. Robert Wells testified to the ability, assiduity and general good
character of Mr. Glendenning 'at a pastor; he considered him superior
to many pastors. Great inducements ivere held out for him to go to
other congregations at a larger salary than he received here; the feeling
among the congregation was that he was entirely innocent ot the charges
against him; the trustees, elders and deacons held meetings, on two or
-three occasions, and took a vote, when Mr. Glendenning was pronounced
innocent of all these charges.-


68.-POOR MARY POMEROY.
Cross-examinod.-Never investigated the charges against Mr. Glen,-
xenning; pronounced him innocent without hearing any of the testimony,
on the other side; knew very little of his habits of visiting; he might
have been escorted from church by a person without my knowing it.,
The defence asked, for the appointment of a commission to take the
testimony of Mr. William S. Purdy, of Fairmount avenue, and Messrs.
Goodman, French and iflsey were appointed.
Ar. James Dunne, one of the elders of the church, was recalled. He
testified to the same points as Mr. Wells. Dr. Burdett told him that
Miss Pomeroy was wandering in her mind. This contradictory testimony
created a stir; for it will the remembered that Dr. .Burdett denied this
most emphatically, under oath, in an early stage of the case. This wit-
ness was a firm believer in Mr. Glendenning's innocence, and would on
no account credit the engagement-of-marriage story.
A policeman was stationed outside the church during the session at
the request of the elders of the church.
The proceedings on the 17th day were opened with prayer by the Rev.
Mr.sGoodman. Mr. James Dunne, one of the elders of the church, was
tben 'cross-examined by the Rev. Mr. Riggs, who was styled by the Mo.
derator the "Methaphysician of court."  The witness testified :--.Mr.
Glendenning made some pastoral calls on other than Monday rights;
have been with him on some occasions; a large proportion of the com-
munity think Mr. Glendenning guilty; at the joint meeting of trustees
and deacons Miss Pomeroy's statement was not considered; the subject
was discussed altogether probably on his; think all took part in that
discussion; there was no difference of opinion; never saw Glendenning
and Miss Pomeroy together alone; don't know that he visited her; 1
called there once with him on Sunday school business; I do not know
whether he made any pastoral calls on .her; I do not know positively that~
h did.not visit her; last Thanksgiving evening I left him at half-past
ine o'clock; I don't know his movetie its after that; there is no un-
certainly in my mind that Dr. Burdett'used the word wandering instead
of worriment as he testified; he spoke in an ordinary conversational tone,
not subdued in the least; when I first heard of this transaction I was
surprised that Mr. Glendenning was so charged; I know nothing against
Miss Pomeroy; she was a member of the church in good standing; I was
more surprised that Mr -Glendenning should be- so charged because I
knew him better that I did Miss Pomeroy.
To Mr. Marshall-I think Mr. Glendenning visited Miss Pomeroy to
converse with her on religious subjects previous to her admission to the
church; the rumor of the intimacy between Mr. Glendenning and Miss
Pomeroy began after her admission to the church.
To Mr. Wall-I should not have been surprised to see Mr. Glendenning

POOR MARY POMEROY.

iome out of, the Bible class room; should not be surprised if he took a
short nap if the weather was warm.
To Mr. Riggs-I can't say that Mr. Glendenning was in the habit -of
taking naps;. I never knew him to take any.
Mr. Marshall asked the witness if Mr. Glendenning made a statement
to him that he knew of Miss Pomeroy's condition before it was divulged
and had talked with her obout it.
Counsel for both sides objected to the question, because that testimony
would be secured from Mr. Glendenning himself.
/The witness, after having been subjected to a severe cross-examination,
was allowed to retire. Mr. J. Smith Miller applied for warrants for the
arrest of some of the witnesses for the defence on the eharge of perjury.
In consequence of the death of a relative of the Rev. Mr. Dodd the
session was adjourned till the next Wednesday.- The testimony of Miss
Agnes Clinton is not yet complete, and she wil be called to give rebdt-
ting testimony. Her knowledge of the case will throw light on many
points which now remain in doubt. It is very singular that.Mr. Jones,
a brother of Mrs. Miller, has not been called by the defence, though'be
i in daily attendance. He expresses his determination to vindicate his
character from the aspersions cast upon it before the case closes.
A. H. Demotte testified that Glendenning was at his residence on the
4th of July, 1873, and that he saw him afterward play croquet at Mr.,
Miller's.
A report of the proceedings at the indignation meeting was offered ii
evidence. Letters from professors'and classmates in the colleges where
Glendenning studied were also offered. They bore testimony to his godd
character. One of these stated that it would take nothing liss than re-
velation to convince the writer of Glendenning's guilt. A letter, vindi--
cating the character of Mrs. Wetmore for truthfulness, was objected to
by Dr. Edwards on the ground that her veracity had not beei assailed
in the Presbytery. The Moderator and Mr. Dodd conteided that she
had been attacked in the newspapers.
The letter was finally withdrawn.
The testimony of -William B. Purdy, taken before a commission, was
read. It set forth that he saw Mary Pomeroy wear a ring and she said
it was not her engagement ring; the witness knew her in Ovid, N. Y.;
her character was very good; he never knew her to tell a lie.
Samuel B.:Brown's testimony was read. It impeached the testimony
of Mr. Randall, with whom Mr. Brown had a co versation regarding the
indignation meeting. Mr. Randall showed a deci d feeling against Mr.
Glendenning, saying Miss Pomeroy's friends had plen ,of' money to get
justice. Witness replied that Mr. Glendenning had a fe friends left yet,
and they would not let him be crowded down
Mr. Wall for the defence stated that they had endeavored to procure


I0                    POOR MARY POMEROY.
the attendance of Mrs. Middleton, a most important witness, but her hus-
oand refused to permit her presence, as so many comments had been
made about witnesses in the newspapers. Her testimony would contra-
dict that of Nelly Greystock in regard to the visit of Mr. Glendenning to
the asylum. Mr. Wall was then allowed to take the stand to testify to
the statements Mrs. Middleton made to him at No. 119 Lexitigton ave-,
iie, She said that she came'to the asylum on the evening of the 6th of
July; it was her custom to spend the evening after tea in the front par-
1Mr with Nelly Greystock; no young man called at that time, nor any-
thing near that time; it was impossible that the bell could be rung with,.
opt her knowing it.  On cross-examination Mr. Wall said that Mrs.
Middleton was not under oath when she made those statements.
Glendenning took the stand and there was a breeze among the audience.
Ile testified:-My name is John Stuart Glendenning; I am pastor of this
church and am the person involved in this charge; was born near Pitts-
burg, Pa ; moved from there to Cannonsburg, in the same State, for the
purpose of attending college; remained there five years; came thence to
Princeton for the purpose of attending the theological school at the col-
lege; remained there three years; removed to Jersey City; lived all the
time with my mother aind sister; knew Miss Pomeroy; my acquaintance'
with her commenced as a member of this church; visited her at Mr. Mil-
ler's; there was no particular evening; my first visits were on Saturday
evenings; stayed usually half an hour; my acquaintance began in the
-spring of 1872; could not say how late I stayed when I visited her; some-
times long and sometimes short; can't tell the date when my visits be-
came more frequent than on Saturday evenings; have been there as late
as eleven o'clock, but never was there as late as one o'clock; when Miss
Pomeroy was about joining the church; she was a long time in doubt as
to that step;' that doubt was based on her relations with the family -with
whom she lived; I encouraged her and told her as long as I was con-.
nected with the church she should never want a friend; she was in doubt
about two months; made her presents, a locket, earrings, sleeve buttons,
locket, chain and others that I don't remember; they were given in returD
for presents she made-to me; the first she gave me was a shaving case,*
never gave her a plain gold ring; never saw her wear one,
Q. Did you ever give her a gold watch ? A. hesitatingg) No, sir, I
never made her a present of a watch; I paid $45 for it; she paid me $15
on account; she said she expected money from her cousin to pay the ba-
huce; never was engaged to marry Miss Pomeroy; never had criminal
intercourse with her; 'never solicited her. He then proceeded to account
for his whereabouts last New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day, 4th of July,'
1873; on the latter day left Mr. Miller's house about seven o'clock; went
home and remained there.
Q When did you first hear of Miss Pomeroy's condition? A. On the

POOR MARY POMEROY.

.4

.71

5th of July; she was standing at the organ when she handed me a letter;
I asked her the meaning of it; she said "keep it, ydu may need it; there
is something awful at the back of this;1" she said if I would call next
,evening (Monday) she would explain it; she said she would go away on
the morning after that (Thuesday), and she had written the letter in an-
ticipation of her going away; first showed her note to a gentleman on
the morning after my arrest.
Mr. Dodd then produced the mysterious letter, so long expected in the
-community, stating that he would not offer it in evidence till a later stagel
of the case. It runs as follows:
JULY 7, 1874.
Mir DEAR COUsTN.-I wish to say to you in this note I would not
tell you while talking to you for fear you would get angry with me.
I have deceived you all along in regard to Mr. Glendenning. telling
you things that never had any ground of truth in them, in order to
satisfy your curiosity when you questioned me and prevent any dif-
ficulty between us; and this is the reason I never wished you to go
to him in regard to the matter. He made a friend of me for no evil
purpose, but because he thought I was trying to lead a good life and
needed sympathy; and never has he by word or deed showed him-
self other than a true Christiangentleman, which he is. Even when
I could bear it no longer and tld him how bad I was and how I de-
ceived him, though surprised and grieved at, my story, he did not
scorn me, but tried again; and now I ask you to forgive me for de-
ceiving you as I did, and hope you will show him in some way that
you know the true state of the case.              MARY.
Between the words "tried" and "again," toward the close of this letter-,
there is plainly a portion omitted.
Glendenning admitted that a part. of the sheet was detached in the
lawyer's office. When it falls into the hands of the "Methaphysician of
the Court " it will be made the subject of the minutest investigation. If
the testimony for the prosecution be true this is the paper which Mary
Pomeroy signed when a pistol was placed to her head, and to which she
alluded in her dying statement.
Witness continued-I handed the letter back to her and she returned
it to me; she made a confession to me four or five weeks before; the ex-
pression in the letter that she could bear it no longer explained that con-
'ession; she had deceived me regarding her mode of life; I had received
several anonymous communications from persons concerning her, and as
her pastor I called on her for explanation ; first knew that she accused
me on the evening of the 15th of last July, from a friend here at the
church; he told me that an affidavit had been made at Justice Aldridge's
charging me with bastardy, and that arrangements had been made to ar-
Test me that night; I told him that I could not believe Miss Pomeroy
would ever sign such an affidavit as that; Officer Benson came 'to me
'that night and in private conversation told me that there was a young

I


POOR MARY POMEROY.
lady up the street in trouble, and that I had better go and marry her or
settle up the matter fn some way; I told him that was impossible; he
then told me he had a warrant for ie; I went with him to Mr. Miller's
house; -Mrs. Miller met me at the door, remarking, "We need you here;"*
she gave me a chair and she sat down opposite me; Mr. Northrup and
Mr. Randall came in; Mrs. Miller said, "We want you to marry Miss
Pomeroy;" I asked to whom, and she said, "To you, who has ruined'
her;" I told her I never had and that if she had taken proper care of the
girl she never would be in that condition; Mrs. Miller fainted; Mr. Miller
told Miss Pomeroy not to answer Mr. Hallowell any questions; Mr.
Miller said, "We mean business;1" he brought Miss Pomeroy into the
roomo;- she was 'going to fall, and I caught her by theshoulders and
placed her on a stool; Mr. Miller stood over her and asked her this very
strange question, which I shall never forget, "Is this child yours or is it
his?" the, answer was equivalent to the question, "It is "-(laughter);
I told her she never would inake that statement if she were not sur-
rounded by such influences; she never said, "Glen, I-have deceived you;''
was taken to Justice Aldridge's office; never went to the Clinton Place
Asylum to procnre the admission of a young girl; visited it to see if Mrs.
Greystock would recognize me as the man she said she saw there before;
did not see her.
Q. Did you ever threaten Miss Pomeroy with a pistol? A. Never ;
never asked her for a paper; never had any occasion for that.
This closed the direct examination, and the cross-examination was de.
ferred to give Mr. John Hallowell, a trustee of the church, an opportunity
of testifying. He testified to the whereabouts of Mr. Glendenning on
Thanksgiving Day and the facts connected with the arrest, all of which
has already been shown by several witnesses. He advised Mr. Glenden
ning on thg night of the arrest to go out by the back door and avoid ar-
rest till the next morning, but he refused. The witness contradicted
Glendenning point blank in regard to the scene in Mr. Miller's house.
Miss Pomeroy said, "Oh, Mr. Glendenning, I have deceived you; it Ia
yours." Witness asked her if Mr. Glendenning was the father of her
child. She sat looking at him as if stupefied and made no answer. Mr.
chiller directed her not to answer any questions. She looked the picture
of despair.
Mr. Dodd put the query-Did you ask her the question more then onceI
No, sir. (Another contradiction.)
'The cross-examination brought out further contradictions. Mr. Glen-
denning stated, in the hearing of the witness, that he presented Miss
Pomeroy with a watch and chain. Dr. Riggs put one of his usual two-
edged queries in this fashion :-Mr. Hallowell, how did you knoir that
Mr. Glendenning was to be arrested on that evening ? The only swer-
the witness made was that he had heard it from a friend.

POOR MARY POMEROY.                    is

Glendenning took the stand next day for cross-examination. Dr..Im-
brie opened the examination and was answered as follows:-I visited
Miss Pomeroy once and twice a week, perhaps three or four times a week
rarely; have not often stayed as late as eleven o'clock; usually went
after tea, but sometimes went as late as nine o'clock; was usually alone
with her; visited her more frequently than I did any other young ladies;
the only reason I had was on account of her peculiar situation.
Q. What was the peculiar situation?  A. Well, as I stated before,
that she had no christian sympathy at home,; used to read for her such
works as Scott, Tennyson and Burns; was not in the habit of reading
my sermons to her; was installed pastor in the fall of 1871, and com-
menced visiting Miss Pomeroy in May, 1872; increased my visits be.-
cause she. seemed to desire my company; her case was a special one;
never remember taking her to a concert, but took her home from one in
Jersey City; never went to any place by appointment with her; said
to my mother and sister that other people were making themselves more
busy than they ought to in regard to the relations between me and Miss
Pomeroy; told them she meant .no harm; neither Mr. Howell nor Mr.
Dunn (the elder) warned me about it; my mother and sister were not
cognizant of all my attentions to her nor was there ever any understand,-
ing to that effect.
Q. As you have stated that you visited her and read with her oftener
than you did with other young ladies, and made her presents when you
did not make them to others, were not those grounds of suspicion that
you were engaged to her? A. I did nothing which would give any
ground for 'suspicion that I was engaged to Miss Pomeroy; heard from
others that she was encouraging the idea that we were engaged; spoke
to her about. it, but cannot say that I insisted on her denying it; address-
ed her as Miss Pomeroy, as Miss Mary and sometimes as Mary; she
called me Glendenning and sometimes "Glen;" other ladies are not in
the habit of calling me "Glen."
Q. Was Miss Pomeroy allowed to address you in more intimate terms
than other young ladies ? A. I don't know that I ought to answer that
question; wrote letter to Miss Pomeroy; addressed her as "Dear Mary-;",
signed myself "Glen ;" don't remember signing myself "Yours, Glen;"
sometimes signed my full name;, never called her my dear little vife;
never parted with her by a kiss, though I have kissed her, but did n t
make it a habit-(presents exhibited)-think that the locket and chain
and sleeve buttons are those I gave her; can't identify the earrings and
thimble nor the watch and chain; never received presents from ladies in
the congregation ; Miss Pomeroy presented me with a shaving case made
of paper; can't describe it, because I am not good at description; she
gave other small presents; never had any conversation with her about a
ring with an inscription: on it; never took a ring away from her ; sh


POoo MARY POMEBOY.                  75

wore_ three rings, one of which was given her by a young man in the
family ; the letters "T" and "K" were inscribed on it; the only reason
I had for giving her presents and not to other young-ladies was that she
gave presents to me; she manifested a special desire for my company;
she was a lady who always desired to be noticed by others; sometimes
felt annoyed by her attentions; don't know that I called the attention of
others to this annoyance.,
Q. If you were so annoyed by her why did you make her presents?
A. Because, as I said, she made me presents; did not try to put a stop
to her annoyance because I did not want to be rude to her; never visited
any institution to procure accommodation for a child about to be born,
nor did I commission any person to do so.
Q. Do you- then solemnly under oath deny this charge ? A. I do;
Miss Pomeroy never asked me to do so; she asked me to write to her
aunt in Perrysville with a view to her removal there. I told her that
the person who ruined her was the proper one to do that; I deny posi-
tively, under oath, that I ever had criminal intercourse with Miss Pom-
eroy; I deny solemnly that I am the father of her child; she told me in
the second week of June that she had criminal intercourse with another;
she told me that while living in her uncle Jacob Miller's house, in Beach
street, New York, she was seduced' at an early age by a young man in
the family; I did not disbelieve it; received three or four anonymous
notes charging her with unladylike conduct; cannot produce those notes;
there was no charge of want of chastity except in the last one; it men-
tioned the names of three or four gentlemen with whom I "was acquainted
and who, it stated, were following her up for. what purpose I could easily
judge; called her attention to it; she said the charge was false; she
acknowledged one act of unchastity; I never spoke of it to any person
till this affair arose; on the night of my arrest I positively refused to
marry Miss Pomeroy; the question was asked by Officer Benson.
Q. Did she continue to play the organ'in the church after you knew of
her pregnancy?. A. She did; I did not prohibit her; at the time of her
death she owed me a balance of $50, which I paid for the chain; I re-
imitted the $30 she owed me on the watch; she never gave me a memo-
randum of this indebtedness; have no written evidence of this transr
action.
Q. Did you not tell Mr. Howell (the elder) that you gave her a watch!f
A. I don't remember; I may have done so; never told him that I gave
her a chain, because she wanted a chain for a.watch.
Dr. Imbrie (looking intently at elder Howell)-Mr. Howell swore very
distinctly to that., A. He swore to his impressions, I swear to facts;
when Miss Clinton asked me if I had been asleep in the church parlor I
told her I had; I had been np late the night before preparing my anni-
versa-y sermon; when Miss Pomeroy banded 'me the note in church I

was surprised, was not afraid of being implicated after receiving such a
strange note.
Q. What inference did you draw when she told you there was some.
thing awful behind it? A. I drew no inference at all; showed the note
to Dr. Dean after my arrest.
Q. Why did you not show so strange a note as that to some of the
elders or trustees earlier? A. My session was all away at the time; on
the night of my arrest Miss Pomeroy said,-"I have deceived you."
Q. Why did you say that she would not have stated so if she were
not surrounded by such influences? A. If I said so it was in answer to
her remark.
The defendant then fell into the hands of Dr. Riggs. The metaphy-
0    sician of the court, in answer to whom he testified:-I don't know whether
Miss Pomeroy wrote .such a letter to her cousin as she handed me; she
made me her confidant in this and other matters; she never explained
the meaning of that note, though she promised to do so; I asked her
%bout it; the contents were mysterious to me till she made this late rev-
elation ; on the evening of the 7th of July I called on her to get an ex-
planation, but she gave none except to relate her past history; I called
on her on the evening of the 9th of July, but I asked her nothing about
it; I called there unawares; my visit was made on the stoop; I remained
an hour and a half.
. Q. When Miss Pomeroy handed you the note and said you might need
it what did she mean?   A. I don't know sir; never asked her why;
don't know what occasion I gave for suspicion to be directed to me.
Q. Why did you not produce this note then she charged you on the
night of your arrest?  A. Well, this was a new experience to me and I
did not give it much thought; the charge, "Glen, Ihave deceived you,
it is yours," was a positive one against me.
Q. Can you explain why you did not deny it when Miss Pomerpy made
the charge against you?  A. I cannot give any explanation; I did not
think the case was of such importance as it has since assumed; I had the
note Miss Pomeroy gave me ten days before in my pocket at that time,
but I did not produce it; did not walk publicly in the street with Miss
Pomeroy after I knew of hei- condition; read her dying statement; it sur-
prised me; part of the note she gave me was detached by my legal ad-
viser; the note is now precisely word for word as when it *was handed
to me by her; Miss Pomeroy told me after she gave me the letter who
was the father Of her child.
Q. Did Miss Pomeroy ever ask you to give back that note? A. She
did, but I did not; I had not it with me; can't explain what she meant
by the words "tried again;" there are several words left out; qon't
know what she meant by the expression that she had deceived the
Millers in regard to me; I would like to have visited her between the

POOR MARY POMEROY.


POOR MARY POMEROY.

POOR MARY POMEROY.

15th of July and her death, but by the advice of my counsel I remained
away.
Q. Did it never occur to you that if you called on her and showed her
this note that the matter might be satisfactorily explained and your char.-
acter vindicated? A. I did not, because I thought she was forced to the
course she took by those around her.
Q. How did you fix the various dates of your whereabouts as you have
given them in your minud? A. They were mostly public holidays; the'
memoranda I produced were made out some weeks ago; don't keep a di.
ary; I once kept one, but having forgot to enter the transactions of two
or three days. I cast it aside-(laughter)-saw Miss Pomeroy at the or-
gan on the sabbath of the  2th July-; told her I did not expect to see her
here after what she had tolme; After receiving the anonymous letters I
preached sermons directed to the case.
Q. On what subject did you preach?  A. I preached a sermon on
scandal once; I also preached on "Fallen Women ;" this, however was
given in a lecture in the evening, and a*t was addressed to the young ii
necessarily came in-(laughter); I preached according to my idea of the-
wants of the community. (Renewed laughter.)
Q. Did Miss Pomeroy, after you became aware of her condition, mani-
fest angry or esentful feelings toward you? A. She did on the evening
vf the 9th of July.
Q. Did she attempt to, connect you in any way with her condition 1
A. She did not.
Q. Why, then, was she angry toward you?  A. Well, I suppose from
what I said to'her; it was not very pleasant; she told me that a young
man who lived in the neighborhood four years before had taken advan-
tage of his intimacy with her, and that other men Who knew of this held
it over her head as a threat, and by this means they, too, succeeded iu
making her yield to their desires-(sensation)-my reply to be.r was that
she was lower than any prostitute that lay in the gutter, and I should
have nothing more to do with her-(sensation)-&amp;-was sorry afterwards te
have used that xpression.
The Moderator and Mr. Dodd protested against these revolting details
No third party can be implicated by name.
Dr. Eddy arose and said, with determination :-"Mr. Moderator, I say
that these details are very important. Mr. Glendenning now stands
under a weighty charge. If he can show us such facts as will remove
the guilt from him and place it on other shoulders let him speak out, give
us the name, and then let him face the consequences in this community."
(Loud applause.)
Dr. Imnbrie moved that the Presbytery adjourn until the room be cleared
and that hereafter none but the Presbytery and the reporters be present.
A scene of wild confusion ensued. The motion was carried, and the room

was cleared, not however, without great difficulty and loud protests espec.-
ially from the ladies. Several voices rang out, "Name! name I" and
Glendenning's voice was heard ringing out in reply, "Yes, I will." At
this point it seemed as if the dense crowd woul ep across the barrier
placed against them, angry threats were uttered, and gestures' of 'wild
indignation were seen throughout the entire audience. Amid all the inut-
terings, murmurs, creaking of benches and protests, Glendenning main-
tained a remarkable self possession. One old lady dressed in black,
standing only a few feet in front of him, cried out, "why don't he give us
the 'naues before we leave?"  The ,crowd became more excited outside
and lingered in a menacing attitude rapping at the doors anc windows.
One of the irate individuals must have been possesed of a diamond ring,
with which he cut out nearly a whole pane in the stained glass window,
through which he could view the proceedings. No party of lynchers
could be more brimful of excitement and indignation. Elder HoWell
called for police protection, and the crowd was cleared away after clamor-
ing for three-quarters of an hour in vain.
The doors having been locked, the Presbytery came to order and Glen-
denning resumed his narrative on cross-examination-Miss Pomeroy left
the impression on my mind that these transactionsavith the parties refer-
red to had not occurred for some time; she afterwards told me they had
been going on lately, she informed me of her condition and gave me the
name of the guilty party; she afterward gave me the name of another
party in connection with  he paternity of her child; she asked me, in
consideration of the pas  endship between us, to write to her aunt lit
Perryville, N. Y., and she might take pity on her condition; while mak-
ing these revelations she threw up; her hands several times and said she
wished she were dead.
Q. After such revelations what action did you take in regard to them?
A. I had no one to apply to in the case; never have been able to satisfy
myself why-she turned around so suddenly against me.
Q. How is it that after you got her note and after all these revelations
you went abroad with her and took soda water with her in a drug store;
A. She thrust herself upon me, if I may so express it; don't remember
proposing a written confession in Justice Aldridge's office; had a conver-
sation with a reporter in regard to giving my defence to the public; by
the advice of my lawyer I did not; the public mind was too excited.
Toward the close of his examination he denied that ho kissed Miss
Pomeroy, but he was. immediately reminded by several members of the
Presbytery that he bad already sworn the other'way, to which he ans-
wered, "I said I may have kissed her; the proposition on the night-of
my arrest to settle the matter I understoA  to convey that the payment
of some such sum as $1,000 would settrb the matter; Mary Pomeroy in

16

TT


78

. POOR MARY POMEROY.

all her confessions to me never implicated a communicant in &amp;tay Christian
Church, so far as I know."
Dr. Imbrie-How is that during your long intimacy with her you were
deceived in her? A. Well, I was the pastor of this church, and, of
course, she would present herself before me in the best possible light;
never saw anything coarse in her.
To Dr. Edwards-4 visited saloons and took ice cream with Miss Pom.
eroy at least twice; never sat with her in any other than a lighted room.
A member asked why he brought Miss Pomeroy's note with him on
the night of his arrest to Mr. Miller's and he answered that he had in.
tended to use it, but that he afterward changed his mind.
Dr. Dodd offered in evidence the following letter, which was the coun-
terpart of Mary Pomeroy's alleged confession already published:
July 7, 1874.
MY DEAR GLEN.-I an going to leave to-day, and desiring to make-
an explanation to mpy cousins I have written them anote, a copy of
which I enclose. I am sorry to have to make such an explanation
now, but I could not tell them before. If I have done you wrong I
did not mean it.- Excuse me for allowing any suspicion to fall on
you without at once freeing you by telling the whole truth in regard
to the matter. Shall I see you before I go away ?   MARY.
Robert Marston, late sexton of the church, testified that Miss Pomeroy
gave him notes at times to hand to Mr. Glendenning and that some of the  
envelopes had no writing on them; he could not identify any particular
letter, but that shown to him was about the size of one Miss Pomeroy
handed to Mr. Glendenning at the organ on the 5th of July.
A res6lution was adopted providing that the summing up of the case
should take place in presence of the Presbytery only. The Presbytery
then adjourned.
Edwin A. Bailey testified that Mr Glendenning was at his house on
the 13th of July last; he came there at seven o'clock in the evening and
stayed till after dark;'think he was at my house on the 9th of July. On
cross-examination he said he was not sure about the date.
Charles L. Corbin, of Stelton, N. J., testified:-Know Miss Haskins;
she was employed in my family; on the 8th of October last she made a
statemeuit as to what she heard from Miss Pomeroy, whom she attended.;
she sais that while Miss Pomerov was ill Mrs. Miller called on her one
day and whispered to her, and then walked away; Miss Pomeroy said,
"There, she wants twenty-tive dollars more, and that is the last money I
have'; she got ninety-five dollars before from me that I earned in the
church;" Miss Pomeroy told Miss Haskins about the same time that she
was in great distress in consequence of an interview she had with Mr.
Miller; he told her that if she did not talk so and so to the lawyers, he
would have Mr. Dudley (Overseer of the Poor) come and take her to the
poorhouse.

-

POOR MARY POMEROY.

On cross-examination witness testified that Miss Haskins stated that
Miss Pomeroy declared that Mr. Glendenning was, the father of her
Abild; when asked if Miss Haskins made the statements voluntarily and
without any questioning on his part, the witness said that he remarked
that some of Mr. Glendenning's friends believed that Miss Pomeroy was
under the influence of the Millers in the statements she made.
The testimony of Dr. Willard Parker, of New York, taken by commis-
sion, was read. He discussed the causes that led to Miss Poimeroy's
death and the effect of her physical diseases on her mind.  ie vas of
opinion from all the information submitted to him that she died of pneu-
monzia. Under his theory of the case the brain was so affected that the
person was most likely to reiterate statements previously made. The
following question was put:-Would a seduced woman's statement under
such circumstances as to the parentage of her child be regarded by you
ds satisfactory evidence against that man ? A. I should receive the
statement of one, situated as I understand this woman w'os fifteen or
twenty minutes before -death, with very great doubt, on the ground of
her nearness to death by this disease; if it were some other disease her
faculties might be clear to the last.
Q. If her. mind was clear one-half hour before death, would it be an
extraordinary case? A. It would; I do not now recall any such case.
The motion in   card to the secret session was reconsidered. Mr.
Moore moved, at me request of My. Glendenning, that the officers of the
thurch be admitted during the summing up. Mr. Amnierman was ift
favor of throwing open the doors to all. Mr. Moore was opposed to this.
He said that during the tumult on Friday a knife was brandished. Dr.
Riggs, for the.-prosecution, said that a great advantage had been hitherto
gained by the full and free reports published in the papers, and it gave
confidence to the public mind that the Presbytery were acting honestly.
That advantage would now be lost if the gentlemen of the Press were
excluded during the summing up. Mr. Dodd, for the defence, protested
against the admission of the press during the summing up. On behalf of
his client he had many-things to say which it would be highly improper
to have sent broadcast over the country. Dr. Eddy moved that the press
be admitted during the summing up. On a close vote the motion was
declared lost.
The reading of Glendenning's testimony on cross-examination was
then' taken up and occupied the remainder of the session.
Twenty-second day. Rev. Mr. Booth moved that a committee he ap-.
pointed to prepare a' digest of the case, in order that it might be ready dt
ihe same time as. the 'verdict of the Presbytery. The otion was adopted
anrd the Rev. Meszrs. Bdoth and Waterbury were appointed.
When the reading of the cross-examination was concluded Dr. Imbrie
Asked the defendant some questions, to which the following answers were

A"-

.11


y

01

80o

POOR MARY POMERoY.

given:-When Miss Pomeroy made. the statements to me in regard to
the individuals with whom she' said she had intercourse she gave the
date and circumstances connected with each case she talked like-a sane
person, but with a certain degree of hesitancy, which I attributed to a
feeling of shame.
Q. Did you ever charge any of these persons with being the father of
ber child? -A. I did not,
Q. Did you not charge Mr. Northrup to his face ? A  I don't think I
did; I told him' I had heard something about it; he said, "Who charges
me in that way ?" I answered that I did, not; and that if he chose to ac'
cause himself I had no objection.
Mr. Dodd objected that this line of examination-was -stretching too far.
He thought that the decision of the Presbytery a few days ago that.Mr.
Glendenning should not mention names was very wise and prudent ansd
he hoped it would be adijered to. He had been speaking to one of the
civil justices, who informed him that the decision of the Presbytery was
very judicious, inasmuch as Mr. Glendenning would be liable to a suit
for slander at the hands of any of the parties so named, and that in such
a suit the civil tribunal would take no cognizance of the fact that the*
statement was made under an oath administered by the Presbytery. In
other words, such an oath would be no protection against a suit for slander-
Dr. Imbrie then asked the question, if he relied solely on Miss Ponm..
eroy's statemefits as the sole ground on which these parties were impli.-
cated, and the defendant answered in the affirmative. He added -that he
bad no suspicion till she made those statements. He had a certain de-
gree of suspicion when he received the anonymous letters.
Dr. Imbrie explained in answer to the objection of the defence that his
only object in asking those questions was to have the characters of respect.,
able men in the community placed where they properly belong.4
In answer to further questions, defendant said that the anonymous let-
ters mentioned the same names as those contained in Miss Pomeroy's
statement, but not all.
Mr. Horace Dean recalled-Mr. Glendenning called on me the morning
after his arrest and showed me a letter he had received from Miss Pom-
eroy (letter produced); that is the letter; it was not divided as it now
is, but in one pie.#e; have never seen Miss Pomeroy's handwriting, ex-
cept in some papers connected with this case.
Cross-examined by Dr. Riggs:-How do you know this letter was
from Miss Pomeroy?   A. Mr. Glendenning'told me so.
Q. Is that your only source of information? A. Yes, sir; I believed
him when he told me; Mr. Glendenning told me he had been arrested
the previous night and that Miss Pomeroy had given him this letter un-
 solicited h the Sunday previous, and that she had explained it in part,
but never entirely ; he: said he intended to use it in his defence; he told

POOR MARY POMEROY.
me that when he was arrested he realized the necessity of having that
paper,
Dr. Riggs repeatedly reminded Ihe witness that he wanted specific
answer s without the "of course," "undoubtedly," &amp;c.
Rev. Mr. Moore recalled-I called on Mr. Glendenning soon after his
arrest; he read two letters for'me; one was from Miss Pomeroy to him,
and the other on the second leaf of the sheet was a dopy of a letter from
Miss Pomeroy to her cousifis; one was explanatory of the other; the
letters here are the same as he read them, but I don't think he read the
 date oi- the, signature; this occurred on the 17th of July ; he told me the
circumstances under which he received them. On cross-examiiation the
witness intimated that his memory failed him completely in regard to the
dates of the conversations between him and Mr. Glendennitg; the latter
left the impression on his mind that he hat given Miss Pomeroy the
watch and chain, but he could not tell at what time the conversation oe-
curred, except that it was between the 15th of Ja'y and the 15th of No-
vember. He was asked the question :-Did you not have the impression
that Mr. Glendenning's admission that he gave her the watch and chain
was an unfavorable one to him ? A. No. he cross-examination elicited
one important point. There was a very serious discrepancy between
Mr. Glendenning's statements to the witness and those to RevA Mr.
Frenich regarding the presents. To the witness Mr. Glendenning stated
that he had bought the watch and chain at Miss Pom roy's request,
while to the Rev. Mr. French he stated that he presented t'hem to her on
the aniversary of her union with the church and as an encouragement to
her to lead a true Christian life. This witness having been resworn pre-
vious to giving his testimony, Dr. Edwards arose and asked the Moderator
if the practice was .not irregular. The Moderator replied that it was the
practice in Presbyterian assemblies for a witness to take ain oath whenever
he comes to testify on a new subject.
Mr. Mesereau asked the Moderator when and where he ever knew of
such a case.
The Moderator-The Moderator declines to state.
Mr. Meserean-Then I don't care to hear it.
Dr. Eddy-I never heard of it before.
The defence closed.
Mr. Dodd here announced that defence had no further testimony to
offer. Whether it would be necessary to introduce other witnesses here.
after depended on the course the prosecution might take.

1#4

\


t,

82

POOR MARY POMEROY.

THE DECISIVE MEETING.

This meeting was' conspicuous by the unusually large attendance af
members. The first business in order was the reading of the testimony
of the Rev. Mr. French, taken by commission, and the testimony of Mr.
Glendenning himself, taken in rebuttal. The commission, consisting of
the Rev. Mr. Fisher, Rev. Dr. Eddy and Mr Marc Martin, and con-
pleted their digest of the testimony so taken, yet, contrary to expectation,
it'was not read. There was a delay of nearly an hout' iin consultation
between the prosecuting committee and the committee for the defence,
after which the Moderator announced that the Piesbytery were prepared
to hear the summing up.
Rev. Dr. Riggs then arose on behalf of the prosecntion, and, after a
few prefatory remarks on tee unpleasant task imposed upon him, pro.
ceeded to road the case for the prosecution based on the evidence. His
delivery was very pleasing and marked with deep sincerity, yet there
was a keenness and severity in style that produced a palpable effect on
K      the members. The gose of his address was particularly fine, and was
greeted with smiles of congratulation.  A brief conference took place
between him and his associate, Dr. Imbrie, when he resumed his seat.
He spoke for three hours and a half.
A recess was taken, after which the Rev. Dr. Iinbrie arose and summed
up for the prosecution. Hie submiitted that it was not necessary to travel
over the evidence in detail, as the members of the Presbytery were suffi-
ciently conversant with the facts and circumstances in the case, but he
felt bound to submit the conclusions which, in the judgment of the pros-
ecution, were warranted by the testimony adduced. In an elaborate ad-
dress he then developed the strongest points in the case. In dealing with
the dying statement of Mary Pomeroy he was so affected as to command
profound silence, and many of his hearers bowed their heads as if they
witnessed the painful scene.  The character of the witnesses for the
prosecution, he contended, stood unimpeached. But it was when he
came to speak of the attempt to asperse the memory of Mary Pomeroy
that he faced the Presbytery with indignation and became truly eloquent.
 It was only at this point that the Presbytery realized the magnitude of
the work which the case involved, though they had repeatedly sympathized
with him in the difficulties of his position. After speaking for two hours
and ten minutes he resumed his seat. Ilis address was pronounced a
masterly effort by many of the members.
At half-past thtee o'clock Mr. Dodd arose and spoke to evidence for the
defence. His address, like the preceding ones, was in writing, anl con-
tained many strong features. The position in which Mr. Glendenning
stood, the aspersions cast -upon his character, the grave charges which

- POOR MARY POMEROY.

83

ne was called upon to answer before the PreAbytery, and the momentous
consequences involved in the verdict, were questions which, he contended
affected not merely the community, but the entire Church. He attacked
the testimony for the prosecution with unsparing severity, called into
question the veracity of many of the witnesses and asked the Presbytery
to throw overboard entirely all the evidence relating to Mr. Glendenning's
visit to the Clinton Place Asylum. He called upon the Court to consider
his client the victim of persecution and to save him from the shafts of hig
enemies, who were pursuing him with an unrelenting purpose.
Mr. Dodd did not conclude'without paying a compliment to the press,
which he considered had been so severe throughout the entire case that
-e did not feel justified in saying that it treated his client fairly.
At the conclusion of his address it was announced that Mr. Wall in-
tended to sum up for the defence, and, as the hour was late, it was decided
to adjourn till the next morning at half-past nine o'clock. Many persons
lingered around the church during the afternoon, actuated by curiosity,
and expecting to obtain admission, but they were disappointed. The
ladies of the church entertained the members of the Presbytery with a
bountiful repast. An invitation had been given previously by the ladies
of the Prospect avenue Presbyterian church; but for the sake of greater
convenience in point of location the Presbytery were constrained to
decline.
The long-expected day for judgment in the Glendenning case arrived
on Dec. 8.. The Presbytery assembled at half-past nine o'clock in the
First Presbyterian church. The Moderator was absent. The first busi-
ness after prayer was offered was a discussion on the letter of Mr. Jones,
who was excluded from giving testimony in rebuttal, and Mr. Glenden-
ning's answer thereto. One of the members (Rev. Mr. Meserau) in-
sisted that the language of the reply was most improper and called for
severe censure. The debate became very warm, and Mr. Glendenning
was asked to retire. The following digest t of the case was then sub-
mitted:
The testimony in the case of the Rev. John S. Glendenning being all
iti, the Presbytery of Jersey City met in the First Presbyterian church
on Monday, November 30, to hear the summing up and to take the final
vote. The counsel on both sides occupied the whole of Mondny an d- part
of Tuesday in summing' up, after which the Rev. Mr. Glendenninmg was
asked whether he had anything further to add in his defence. He replied
that he had thought of making some remarks, but in compliance with
the advice of his counsel, he would say nothing further. The counsel on
both sides then asked and received permission to withdraw, and they,
with Mr. Glendenning, retired. The presbytery then spent theremainder
of the session on Tuesday in prayer for God's guidance. On Wednesday

'1
I" l1


84

POOR MARY POMEROY.

morning the roll was called for remarks from each member, after which,
late in the afternoon, the vote was taken, which resulted as follows:
CHARGE 1-Seduction of, and illicit intercourse with, an unmarried
woman.
Speczfication 1-In that on or about the 4th day of Jiuly, 1873, the
Rev..John S. Glendenning did, under promise of marriage, seduce Miss
Mary Ellen Pomeroy, formerly of Jersey City Heights, and lately de-
ceased. Sustained, 5; not sustained, 16.
Specification 2-In' that on subsequent occasions the Rev. John S.
Glendenning relieated his acts of sexual intercourse with the said Mary
Ellen Pomeroy at various times between July 4, 1873, and July 1, 1874.
Sustained, 9; not sustained, 12.
Specification 3-In that the Rev. John S. Glendenning repeated at
various times his acts of sexual intercourse with the said Mary Ellen
Pomeroy between the -dates July 4, 1873, and July 1, 1874, as aforesaid,
the same resulting in the birth of a child by said Mary Ellen Pomeroy.
Sustained, 9; not sustained, 12. Thereupon the first charge was de-
clared not sustained.
CHARGE 2-Breach of promise of marriage.
Specifcation-In that about the month of May or June, 1873, John
S. Glendenning gave to Miss Mary E. Pomeroy an engagement ring, and
both before, and particularly thereafter, maintained with her such in-
timate intercourse as to lead to a conviction on the part of others of the
existence of an. engagement of marriage between them, and led her to
declare the existence of such an engagement to a fiumber of parties;
and that notwithstanding this Rev. John S. Glendenning did emphatically
refuse without just cause to consummate a marriage with her. Sustained,
8; not sustained, 13. Therefore the second charge was declared not,
sustained.
CHARGE 3.-Falsehood.
8pectfcation-Jn that the Rev. John S. Glendenning, having visited
for sone time previous to the birth of a child of Miss Mary E. Pomeroy
a hospital in Clinton place, in the city of New York, apd" then and there
having sought to procure accomodation for a woman expecting to be de-
livered of a, child, did afterwards deny the same to be true. Sustained,
2; not sustained 19.  Thereupon the third charge was declared not
sustained.
CHARGE  4-IUnministerial and unchristian conduct.
Specification 1-In that about eight weeks before the birth of Miss
Mary E. Pomeroy's child, the Rev. John S. Glendenning did procure
from her, by means of threats of personal violence, a writing exonerating
him from blame in reference to her.
Sustained, 2; not sustained, 19
Specification 2-In that the Rev. John S. Glendenning e-mpromised

I

4rl

-4

r

I

N

POOR MARY POMEROY.
his Christian characer by making Miss Pomeroy so many valuable pres-
ents, vlingr her so frequently and at such unseasonable hours and liv-
in on' isun itLitimate terms with her as to occasion public suspicion of
impropriety. especially as he at the same time declared that no more than
the orlinarv -rclations of" life existed between them. Sustained, 16 ; not
sustained, 5. Therefore the fourth charge was declared not sust-ained as
to speciiration first and sustained as to specifieation second. Two elders
were exeus'd. from voting.
The Presbvterv then adjourned to meet at the same place on Tuesday,
Decenmb -r 8, at halt past nine'o clock A M., to receive and act upon the
report of the committee (Rev. Henry Booth, chairman) appointed to
draw up a final minute inrieference to the case.
On Ti esday, December 8, the Presbytery met according to adjourn-
ment axvl adopted the report of the committee, which was as follows:-
The committee's report. The committee instructed with the preparation
of the verdict for the adoption by the Presbvterv in the case of the Rev.
John S. ilendenning, against whom charges or unmiiAerial and un-4
chrisaiin conduct have been sustained by vote of the Presbytery, recog-
nize the solemnity of this duty, and have sought guidance of Him who
gives wisdom freely without upbraiding. Beli-vimg that. God loves His
church and His ministry far better than we can love either, your con.
mituec have l-ked upward for that help which alone can lead us to a
righteous and beneficent dedi-ion.  The honor and prosperity of the
Church dependd upon the absolute purity of the ministry. In order to
their continued usefulness the ordained servants of God must be above
all suspicion or reproach. A charge of unministerial conduct, therefore,.
when it is sustained on the ground of inconsistencies and improprieties''
which look in the direction of impurity of life possesses a gravity and im-
"A
portance which no other charge possibly can. In these repects a bishop
must be "blameless, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, and must have a
good report of them which are without." The Presbytery cannot express
too forcibly its ensure of the unministerial conduct of thme Rev. John  '
Glendenning in his foolish and injudicious intimacy with a memher of his
church, the late Mary E. Pomeroy, as exhibited in the visits he paid her
the costly presents he gave her, the relationshe sustained to her both by
manifesting regard for her and by allowing her-to express her preferences
for him to such a derree that their names became associated as persons
eng'agred to the married. The I resbyterv recognizes the fact that a plea
has been. urged in extenuation of this intimacy on the ground of the re-
ligious ignorance of the young lady already named and the desire of her
minister to be faithful in his pastoral oversight and friendship, but the
Presbytery has not so learned the duties of the pastoral office as to give
any other .than a most severe condemnation to visits and presents and
intimacies such as these. With the utmost sadness of heart that such a

a


POOR MARY POMEROY.

charge -should rest upon one of its menibers the Presbytery hereby ad-
ministers its solemn censure to the Rev. John S. Glendenning for his
unministerial and unchristian conduct.
And inasmuch as the church over which the Rev. John S. Glendenning
has been placed by the Presbytery has already suffered greatly from the
disturbing influences incident to this case; and is still suffering,.and the
Presbytery believes that only confusion, strict and ultimate ruin will re,
suit from the continuance of the Rev. John S. Glendenning as pastor of
the Prospect avenue church, and moreover, since so large a minority of
the Presbytery voted to sustain the grave charges of the accusation,
which vote has a great moral weight. as anelement of the vote which
supported the only specification sustained, viz., that of unministerial and
unchristian conduct; under those circumstances it is unwise that the
Rev. John S. Glendenning should continue to act as pastor of the Pros,
pect avenue church, and the Presbytery in the exercise of that authority
committed to it for the welfare of the churches and the glory of God's
most holy name deems it right to dissole this pastoral relation; there,
fore be it resolved
1. That the Pastoral relation existing between the Rev. John S. Gler.
denying and the Prospect avenue church be and hereby is dissolved.
2. That the Rev. T. G. Wall (Moderator) be t appointed to preach in
the pulpit of that church on the Sabbath after next, December 20, to de.
clare the pulpit vacant and to read to the congregation the judgment en,
t'6rred in this case.                   HENRY M. BOOTH
C. GIDDES,
JERSEY CITY, Dec. 8, 1874.          ,C. H. WATERBURY.
After the delivery of this judgment Mr. Glendenning was called into
the meeting of the Presbytery and, the judgment having been announced,
he was asked what he had to say. He looked around and finding that
neither of his counsel was present, be contended himself by saying he
would make use of the ten days allowed by the Book of Discipline by
lodging an appeal to the synod. He appeared quite disappointed, as did
some of his friends in the Presbytery. It was somewhat remarkable
that while neither of his counsel was present the committee for the pros-
ecution, Drs Imbrie and Dodd, were in attendance. A lively scene oc,
curred at the close of the proceedings. Rev. Mr. Paulison approached
Mr. Glendenning and exhorted him to speedy repentance, reminding him
that, no matter how great the fall, he who turns his heart to Christ would
not be cast away. To this Mr. Glendenning replied warmly that such
an advice was not needed, as he would have confessed in the first instance
if he felt conscious of guilt. "Then," said Mr. Paulison, "if you -be not
guilty you are the victim of the foulest conspiracy ever known."  "Now
you've struck it," retorted the Rev. Mr. Moore, who has stood by Mr
Glendenning in all his troubles.
THEi END.

86

t5Q
0
cl*

/1

MA

I


  
             
         
       
   
