
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. El Pirata .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7460
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            El Pirata 
            
               E L               P IR A T A.
C H A P T E R    I.          carriage in silence and apparently buried in
his thoughts.
At the crossing of Rue Bienville they were
stopped by an odd procession of gypsy girls,
The Cabrwet-The Ma queraders--The troubadours, and ethiopian banjo-players, es-
Black Mask-The Gendarme.          corting a Jack, on which, in great dignity,
AGRAY twilight, fast deepening into the sat a baboon dressed up as a general officer.
dArnesso A  tlesnight,  wase  o th They had hardly passed this when they
darkness-'of a staless, night, was- obscuring cm  pnagopi rn    facf    i
the streets of New Orleans atthe close of the came upon a group in front of a cfe singing
last day of the merry and fantastic festival of thee ing Marettois and makingthe whole
'The Carnival,' when a man issued from the a st   nce Fn   e sng w   er
grande porte of'a statelyniorisco lookino' house all circumstances F renchmnen sing well.
'Why do you draw up, garcon,' demand-
on Rue Bourbon, near Bienville,:aud sprung ed the inmate sternly addressing the cabrio-
into a close cabrioletmi waiting. .    letter as he stopped u Idenly.
' Where, monsieur?' asked the, man.  'It is impossible to proceed, monsieur.'
'Salon Sainte Louis,' wvas the response; the 'Use your whip,' he commanded in a tone
windowwas closed, and the carriagee dashed
along the street at a rapid  rate.      of impatience.
The trottoirs were thronged with masquers,  'There are too many, and I fear to do it,
some having torches which glared brilli iutly monsieur. They will separate as soon as the
into the window of the cabriolet as it rolled song is done;' and then, to his annoyance the
past and the next inoment left its occupant in garcon began to lift up and umite his own
darkness. The cabarets at the corners were voice in the martial hymn, with lungs more
lighted up with 'more than usual display; sonorous and hearty than musical, and which
and groups of grotesque bourgeoisie of the rose above those of all others.
cite, old and young and of both sexes were 'Bravo, cabriolet!' when the song was end-
congregated. around them, making merry. ed, cried a hideous mask with a nose a yard
More than once a fantastic harlequin sprung long, upon the ridge of which v parrot was
out into the street and attempted to grasp gravely perched.
the bit of the horse, but was lashed away by  ' Bravo, bravissimo !' cried the parrot in
theg1con on the box;but one, more nm- a shrill tone, at which all set up a loud luigh,
ble and bold thIn the rest, fairly leaped across with cries of'bravo, perrequet.'
the back of the 'horse a ia postimion, and  'You sing so sweetly, Monsieir Ch'inieur,'
despite the well laid on blows of the cabrio- said a man with an enormous eye placed in
leteer rode severalrods, when, turning a sum.- the middle of his forehead that shmne like a
inerset, he alighted upon his feet. The -in- lamp, and whose brows were ornuiented by
mate of the carriage did not pay any atenttion a huge pair of stag's antlers, wh ile the til of
to these mirthful manifestations of the prac- an ox graced his back; ' yo, must ol)lige
tical wit of the masqueraders who had at this this pleasant company with a song. I   ere
season every license granted them from the is his majesty king Louis Phillippe einthroned
Court of Folly ; and so long-as his way was on the cask head on the right, who will hon-
not impeded, he remained seated back in his or you With listening to it: on the left is his


2                             EL PIRATA.
majesty king Beelzebub, he, in brimstone were seen gendarmes in their blue uniform
breeches and flame-colored tunc who will and swords, endeavoring to keep within the
hiss applause if you sing it well, but roast you bounds of lawful indulgence the mad spirit
on that long pitch fork he carries if you do of the Carnival.
not do credit to your honorable, most puis-  Before reaching Rue San Louis the cabri-
sant and critical audienceo;which, as you will olet obeyed the signal to rein up. It was in
perceive, Monsieur Chanteur, is composed of front of one of those noble edifices of for-
good citizens and honest subjects, such as eign construction inhabited by the old and
badits, picaroons. buccgn ers, monks and opulent families of the provicq. After look-
nus, with a sprin4ing of angels, blue, wlite ing out, an'casting hi4 glance upand down
ani grey. Lstei# all gopd peop le, while as it surveying the hose- \
monsieur L    sCbriolet honors himself by sing-  ' Garcon, I will alight here!' he said. 'I
ing us a sweet air on that dulcet banjo he wish you to have the cabriolet in waiting for
carrieth in his gullet' me, at the cabaret on the corner. I may
Bless you, messieurs, 8r ma parole d'hon- want you soon-and I may notneed your ser-
ear! I never sing save I have company,' said vices at all.
the man deprecatingly  besides monsieur  How long shall I wait, Monsieur?' asked
of the Long Nose, if I could sing like your the young French lad as he assisted him in
parrot there, I had not time to do myself the alighting.
honor of singing in such presence, inasmuch  'Until eleven. There is a five-franc-piece.
as my time is not my own, being a poor This sum you shall also have for every hour
devil cabrioleteer, but that of the bon cav- you are in waiting.'
alier who hath hired me.'                'Bien, Monsieur, I will wait.'
'Then we will appeal to him: perhaps,  As he spoke he mounted to his seat and
if he will not give thee time to sing he can drove in the direction of the cabaret.
at least give us a tune.                 The person whowhadlAIthecnarriage stood
'Messieurs? said the inmate of the cabrio- a moment; surveingV through his iask the
let, letting down the glass and thrusting out mansion near which he hadopped. Iis
his head to address the motley throng of air was that of. a. ran whio wishes tp ob-
iasquers whooccupying. the whole breadth serve, unseen. It Was stathy andguarded,
of the street left him no passage hut at their This portion of the street wtas nearly de-
own sovereign pleasure. 'Messieurs, citoy- serted, being freer from te cafes and caba-
ens ! I trust you will suffer my cabriolet to rets which are so frequent i other parts of
proceed. I have already been detained too it, and around which .the lower., order of
long.'                                 maskers generally grouped. Across the street
The glare of the torches held in the hands from the porte cochere,'there swing, on a chain
of some of them and the lights from the caib suspended fromi one house to another, a huge
shed a strong reflection Upon, not the face lamp which gave out a dull light for a little
ofsthe inmate but the features of a mask of distance arounditk;, for at this period the
an extravagantly merryexression, which streets ,wer lighted by lamps winging in
a ethrustlyt  herr vexp Its effect up- the centre,,and situated about a square a part,
onthe group was instantaneous.        serving father in the, character of lighthouses
Lot the cabriolet pass!  Monsieur is to guide the passenger from pointto point,
one of us,' said the man of the nose making than affrding i any light in his progress
an open way before the horse with his pro, along theI pave which, half'the waylay in
bosci.eWe will hear Monsieur Le Chan- darkness. The glare frOm the cabarets (or
teus sweet son Wanother time.'       wine shops) at the corners,, and the torches
Messieurs,' said the gentleman, speaking of the distant masqeraders now diminish-
French with an accent foreign to that tongue, ed the gloom, which, as a thn white haze had
je suis infiniment oblige.'          floated over the city from the river after sun-
'I beg you will not mention it, monsieur,' set, had become'deeper than usual.,
s- teg maue  f the nose with mock po-  The person we have introduced to the ra-
uite     pulling his own nose by way of sa- der, wasnot masked as. he was on looking
lute as the cabriolet dashed through the out of his carriage, but, is features were
passage he had made for it.            effectually concealed by a visor of black
It met with but little further interruption crape. His person was tall and youthful in
on its progress to Rue Bienville, though the its air, and enveloped in, a long skirted Mexi-
strets  pro rs t o n e  w ith m suerl e  o m  can  cap ote,  e  w ore  m ilitary  boots  and
street wathrongpaes othoasebads ad al spurs, and a Spanish hat....
oennfotsin  prthetrvantoreacitement.  He seemed satisfied with his scrutiny of
occasinally wth extravagat coes, pr- 'h exeirof -the mansion which, save the
cded by uted serantd t m keaceare thaet glo  olihs see truh te drawn

4

Ob

the balcony; gave no indication'of person
within. ,     '.
He approached the portae and, rung al
the: door,which 'wastelosed to shutout the
masquetaders. After -a moment's - delay he
heard a:-step; in the arched passage of'-the
porte cochere, and the wicket -was partly open-
ed by an old Frenehman with a gray beard
who seeing no maskers near,'opened it fully
giving a glimpse into an elegant court-filled
with light and foliage, and said respectfully
Your serVant, Monsieur.'    ..   -9
HasoM. Noel left the house yet, Mon-
siuer Concierge?'.
Non,,Monsieur,' answered the porter.
'He goes to night to the Salon Sainte. Lou.
'Yes, Monsieur.'
'Bien! I wish you a good night, Mon-
sieur Concier-e ,
Une bone nuit, Monsieur,' responded the
old concerge looking through'thewicket after
him as he rapidly moved away 'in the direc-
tion of Rue  an   Louis. 'Pardon! He
is briefof spe.ch to night, and yet he spoke
courteously, calling me each time 'Moin
qieur Concierge, when these canaille bour-
geoise, can give me no'eother appellation than
plain 'Potier,' as if the porter to the man-
sion of so noble a. person as M. Noel was not
better than a coinmon partier, who, it may be,
cleans bobts or peddles oranges and' cigars
through his wicket, degrading his office. It
becomes us citizens of.the old eime to see
that this office be kept in its dignity. What
canI he want of 'Monsieu rFlerence. The
voice and accent are like that of that young
Spaniard who once6r twice came here with
master Florence. I would like to have him
call oftener so that he always give me the
Monsieur Concierge,' when he cometh!'
Thus in 'a voice half muttered, half grat
ified soliloquized old Roger le Roux the
porter of the noble mansion of M. Gregoire
Noel 'one of the 'wealthiest citizens and oif
one the oldest and most aristocratic families
of New Orleans.
The person in the black crape visor kept
on his way in the direction of Rue Sainte
Louis: and as he approached the glare of
lights that issued from the cabarets and cafe
saloons in the neighborhood, -he drew his
capote closer about the lower part ofhis face,
as if not wholly trusting for thorough dis.
guise to his mask. A merry pageant that had
just passed up Rue Toulouse with a band of'
music had' drawn all the idlers from the lonjas
and doors of' the wine-shops in its train.-
Stopping a moment here he glanced towards
the magnificent palace-like structure of the
Sainte 'Louis, the windows of its noble Salon
being brill ntly lighted for the aprohng

p

in carriages' theitW of-the gay metitopblix
of the sunny-South.. .&amp;   ,   *. ,  - A
t   On the opposite side of the street near the
portal of of-the Salon, *as a 'gendarme in
his blue coat-ands sword by his 'side, leaning
against a pilaster of the building smoaking
a cigarrt'papel.. The visor in -black crossed
over to him and accosted him with,
,  BonSoir, Monsieur Gendarme!
' BonSoir,' answered the garde civilly in
reply, liftin his hand to his hat; for the
stranger had the air ofia superior; and I the
quick eye of the soldier had; caught sightof
the military boots and spurs beneath the ca-s
pote, which was a long gray surtout-of a mi-
litary style much worn by a certain, class of
foreigners.
"Have'you been longon pwstP
Since the sunset glun4'Monsiedr.'.
And you remain how long??
'Till eightMonsiedtr.'
Do masques begn,'to .assemble in the
Salon Sainte Louis at seven    t
'Yes, for the vrande masquerade, -Mon-
sieur,' answered  e man rolling the  paper
sheath of his cigarito' a'little bnire fiirly
between his fingers aided by aIIght dg-ee
of moisture from his lips ahd then replacing
it in his mustached mouth: 'but s forrnasks
and maskers, Monsieur officer, pardiet! we
have them in all hours' and in all places to-
night! Voila!'see, there comes a pair of
them up this way and a well matched couple
they seem! Sacre! atholy monk and horned
satan arm in arm! There they go up Rue
Royale, the padre saying ispate-noster at
the top of his lungs, and the' deilamoking
brinistone out of a pipe six feet long,.if it Is
one inch. Makes ? -Every corner in the
cite is filled with' them and no man to-night
plays in his own character except we pobr
devil gensdarmes, who are the only men left
in the municipality with their senses in the
right place, and who show christian visage.
There goes a party of mounted cavaliers'ac-
coutered like Camaichees and riding like
eagles on the wing. Ma foi! I wouldn't
wonder, Monsieur, pluck their fine feathers
off we'd 'find beneath a petit marchand or
frdier of the markets who starves himself Bix
months to have a gala at carnival.'
'I have no doubt you would like to join the
festivers to-night, monsieur gendarme.'
'It would be pleasant monsieur visor!' an-
swered the man pettishly; 'but mor Dieut
what has a poor gendarme to do in a merry
making without money! It is 'small pa
and light wines,' as we say in the guard-
house, and if we have a picayune over to
purchase a bunch of paper cigars, we are
good men.'
t'hean ido you com off guard ? ased


FI fIATA.

WIMlfATAi

and, placing a piece.,' of ' old ' in, his hand ti
'At eight! ah, bien, monsieur.' he added a
with his dark eyes light up as the lightly n
glanced on the yellow coin in his palm.-- b'
'This is .the true metaL  But, monsieur, ex- k
pects service of me for this?'         ri
'I do, gendarme,' answered the other in a &amp;
positive tone.
'Will it endanger my place, monsieur? h
I have' a mother and sisters, who look to roy S
small pay andI-
 lo not fear. I ask you to perform nothing g
you, may  not. do freely. I only wish to pur., p
chase -your services in .your capacity of a f
gendarme after you are 'off duty. Instead tz
of returning to the guard-house, await me ti
here.'                          .     n
'I must returnto report myself after being J
relieved. I will then get leave and meet you o
here a few minutes after eight, monsieur.'  e
'It is well. That I 'may' know you from n
others of your comrades wear that scarlet rib- p
bon tied upon your sword knot.'       S
'Oui, monsieur,' answered the gendarme
receiving it.                         in
'Do you know M. Florence Noel?'
The son of the rich Creole*,'  .
The same. He will be to-night at the
masquerade. His carriage, if he rides, will
pass your post. - I wish you -to observe him t
and mark how he is attended, or whethe?
alone and how masked. I shall see you before
I enter the saloon.'.
Thqs speaking he turned from him and
walked down Rue Royale. at a rapid pace in 4
the directing of Rue.d'Orleans.'-I
'Ah, boa, bon! ;,erte,, Jerome Jacot!-
This is a Christmas gift come on carnivalI
last day,' said the gendarme, taking the gold
nearer thie chan lamp that swung across the
street, and narrowlyinspecin it. 'An eea
gle, good weight and col.
lucky night. ow, for the nature of mon-
sieur's service! Some duel, or some love af-
fair in which he wants my countenance.
Bon! I will do a great deal for such a large
a sumas twenty five francs!'
'Monsieur gendarme!'
'Madamoiselle,' answered the garde has-
tily thrusting the gold into the black japan-
ned box where he kept his, cigaritos, and
turning round to look at the owner of the
Aweet, voice, which sounded like that of a
Young girl, and to which he had thus re-
sponded with outlooking to see.
He beheld a youthful female figure close
besidehim in a scarlet bodice, exquisitely
fitting her round bust, and a short basquina
*lt is perhaps unnecessary to remind the reader
that CREOLE 15 a term made use of in Louisiana to
sinf e t rof thati Stte uadron, and nhot
are nmrked Africana lood. todsgae'hs  h

ki

hat revekleda small footand ancle, to which
silk stocking was adjusted with perfect neat-
ess.- Her headwas gracefully coifed by a
lack lace veil that 'descended in front as
ow as her mouth revealing a pair of cherry,
ipe lips and the prettiest, most bewitching
,hin in -the world.
'Will monsieur, be' so obliging as to say
ow one can obtain admittance into the Salon
5ainto Louis to-night? asked the female.
Jerome Jacot was a good-looking bour-
Noise of eight and -twenty, with a toerable
erson, and a tolerable share of admiration
or it, as his well-trimmed and scented mus-
ache, and trim whiskers anud locks bore tes-
imony. Next to self admiration comes ad-
miration for the fairer portion of creation.
erome loved to gaze on the sparkling faces
)f the beautiful dark eyed Creoles that pass-
d him as he stood on guard, and think of
matrimony. He always had a smile and a
pleasant 'bon soir,' or 'bon jour,.madamoi-
elle,' for every one of his own class.
'It is like coming up to a-masked battery,
madamoiselle, to talk with a lady who hides
her -eyes with a veil,' said Jerome with gal-
antry.
'Will you answer me, gendarme, if I
will lift the veil? asked the .same mellow
tones.'
' Yes; and, if I could, if your face prove
as beautiful above your nose as 'below it, I
would try to get you in, ma belle fille '.
The young girl slowly, very slowly rais-
ed her veil laughing in a low, half suppressed
musical tone as she did so. I
' Oiel'R exclaimed the gendarme step-
ping back with an expression between fear
and laughter.   -
Now your promise, monsieur'
'Sacre! I did not expect to, see a hid-
eous negro's mask under the veil,' he an-
swered in a. tone of disappointment. 'But,
I will do as I promised. .Misericorde! but
what a mixture of devil and angel, light and
darkness in your face !I will wager that
there is something better behind that half-
mask.'
'I dont take bets, monsieur gendarme,'
she said dropping her veil again over the
black visor. 'But I will help you make out
your stakes when you next bet at roulette in
the cafe over the way.'
'I never bet at roulette, madamoiselle.
I always lose by the rouge if I bet on the noir
and then if I bet on the rouge the noir al-
ways wins! I never hit it but once right in
my life. I always bet at faro, madamoi-
selle.'
' There is a stake then for your next game,
gendarme,' said the young girl dropping into
his hand a five fran c piece.  . .   -
' Courage, .Tacot. Ha, luck is with yrou

to-night! Well, what must I1 do for this, m
belle bourgeoise' he asked balaneing thn
coin on the plimmel of 'his sword.1
' You ainst tell me first how the guests ob
tain admittance into the salon to the masque
rade?' .
'By tickets for which they pay two eagles.
'You must get nde a ticket,'she said in a
tone that was very determined.,
impossible, ma filue,' answered the gens.
darme with a look of surprise. 'It is a pri
vate aristocraticaffair. A poor devil gen
d ame has nothing to do in a matter 'likc
this.. It is'nt like a masked dance in Ruc
San Felipe!'1
' The tickets are delivered at the door?'
Yes, mademoiselle."
'And taken by an officer of the gens
darm'es I Is it notthus'g
'Yes, ma belle masque negre.'
'He will deposit them somewhere. You
must find out where--in somebox or recep.
tacle by him, perhaps, after you are re-
lieved from guard, which will be at eightI
suppose.'       I
'OUi, madamoiselle.'
'1 want you to find your way, on any pre.
tence, to the place where the tickets are de.
posited and 'obtain one for me.'
'It is as inuch as my head is worth,' answer.
ed 'Jacot, shaking the member he named
with great seriousness.
'Nevertheless you ,mnust make the attempt.
Here are three eagles Two of them  are to
pay you ,for the ticket and one for yourself.'
bMon Dieud what sins have I done to day
above common, that the devil is rewarding
me by tempting moin this fashion with gold.'
If you 'are conscientious, you can deposite
the two eagles when you take out the' tickets'
'Bidh! I will think'of it! I will see what
I can do madamniselle."
'You'can succeedif you will,' Jacot. The
-gensdarmes have access anywhere.'
I I Will trY eal
-wt   'You call me acot? Do you
l"own'Me'
'Yes-and I know you are both honest and
a lover of money.'
'You do. know me. -At eight, I am off
duty. At half-past 'eight, I am partly 'en-
gaged. Ah, I think I can 'do it. I have an
impression I am to go into the saloon on'
other matters for a cavalier who just left me.
en do you want the tiAkets4 madamoi-
'As early as nine.
'Bon! 'Nous verrona, IfI succeed shallII
see whai are the colur of the'eyes behind
that black mask;?',
' Succeed frst, monsieur Genda-
awered the youn  *ir lg, n   "rmecian-y
at nine I shallawai yaou g Preise'
With'theso words she tripped' away with

a a light step, and disappeared round the cor-
e ner of Rue'Royalein the direction taken by
the "stranger in the crape visor.
-   'Courage! lBob! Th1i ''a golden night,
- this lust night of Carnival' said" the' ten-
darne putting tbO.,goId into, his cigar, box,
'and lighting asa ger' pqpiti  'Ilow  is it
a people know me so well a~sIo trust me with
gold, and understand me so well too,! I ,am
an' honest man and a bon, sujet, yet here-1
- stand in my shoes with two bribes in my
-pocket. Dien, I mean to do nothing wrong;
for here is'nt gold enough to make an honest
e man of a sudden turn arrant rogue. I will
smoke cigars'and Wait patiiently what is to
come of it all. What a foot fdr a waltz she
has, and what a voiceto sing, to!'
-   And Jacot began to hum, as he paced up
and down the trottoir near the portale Sainte
Louis in a voice by no means unharmonious,
Stheburden of a sentimental French song.
CHAPTER 11.
The cabaret-The deformed- The lodging room
.-Tje, listener--The matire du cabaret.-
Louisette the . qdroone
TH E city of New Oleans possesses,*char.
acteristie feature in its cabarets or wine-shops.
They are found at the corners of nearly, all
the streets of the citd or French municipality
and are something between a tavern bar-r om
and'a cafe. They are at nightbrightly 'light-
ed up andibeing lined from,'the floor -to
cieling -with wine bottles and gaily painted
jars and ornamental urns,Mith glittering de-
canters and glasses, they display great attrao.
tions to the-passers without.! They, are Wou-
allV'thronged by the Frenchand Spanishqith
zens, of the -burgeois elass' who drink clar t,
smoke papelitostalk politics and play at do,
minoes tillmidnight. Those near the quays,
are crowdedatall hours..with foreign' sailors
and unite to the usual'character of a)cabanet
that of a-tavern. But the genuinee cabaret si
to be found *t the' corners of the streetsmand
avehues: in the 'neighborhood.of the Theatre,
d'Orleans and of the Place d'Armes, where is
the heart of the French population.
j We *ill,now take our readers to a cabaret
of this description situated between Rues~St,
Pierreand St. Anne in the rear of the'cathe.
dinah'onlRoyahe streetand huth short d itanpe
from 'the corner which- turns dOwn. tothe,
Theatre d'Orleans. This is the neighborhood.
not daly of the cathedral but of the' calaboXp,,
the famous'eity-prison, and the' vicinity also,
of the French play-house gave to this quarter"
a peculiar character. Rogues r are :said,;pro,
verbial, to select their handt v las to pins
bouxrhood of the Calaboose at 'the , times wE


i EJRATh

write of cabarets, cafes, pulperias, or Spanish a huge mask, which opinion a stringer" would
grog-shops, and gam~blingrooms were rife be- have entertained at first sight.
tween the carce1 snd he, theatre. Among  Behind him in the pidst of the tlrs of bot-,
thepe was one which hadsonie notoriety and to ties, a small dopr led int .at inner romf,
which we aire about to trainsfeiour scene. It which showed g          inow dra-
stood, as -we have saica on i4u'e Ryoale in the per and a neat bed, and other testefular-
tieighbourhood oftie WOle'an . Like all of rangements, in striking contrast with the ca-'
Its lags it' was siEt1&amp;ted "o'n" corner with a baret.' Beyond the' douiter the adiartnent
door o4y each street.                   exfnded in the form ofa long hill,'wifhi'le
The man ir the-crape visor on:quitting the tables arranged o each side against the wall.
ken dirine had'kept on his way until lie came These tables were open to the gaze of all: but
up with the cabaret, and then stopped on the at the end were botes curtained off where
opposite-corner as ifto observe the movements those who wished could be secluded from there
of its occupants. It was a structure of one gize ot the frequenters of the wine-shop.,
story, with.a steep red.-tiled roof projecting Many. of the-open tables were, now .occupijed
far ovecrthe side walk and eaving the eaves by men drinking wine and gambling at-card
and upper part of the dooroway- even atnoon and dominoes. In,thecentre ofthe room were
day in dark shadow. The style of the edi- others talking and smoking, walking up and
fice which was an old one, was purely span- down in pairs conversing, oy singly in silence.
ish. Its front 'as stuccoed and had* once The fnajority of these were evidently Spanr
been stained'a lively Orange color; but tine ards by their tongue, and theircbosturnie show-
and the humidity of the atmosphere, had ttri- ed them to be sea-faring rrmen. 'MoN t 6f them
ed it to a dingy anid nsightly biown.  It Wore the red ca'p and fancifully'" wi'red shirt
made up in length what it wanted in height, of the Spanish sailor, and' the sarle sash
by extending along on both streets some ways, about the waist holding 'a' long sharp kife.
on one side in the direction of the gloomy Every man had a cigat or papelittsinoking,-
city-prison, and 6 the 'otlier side terminating and those who were about the tables'had bot"C
in an open space of ground, which seemed tles of red wine beforethem.,, Masks alsO lay
left there for no other object than to af- beside many -,of tnem. Laughtert curses,
ford a good ambuscading spot for assas- songs and jdsts were mingled with the noise
'insii.                          '      offeet,of the rattling dominoes,.ofsif-lver ring-,
The doors of the cabaret were both open ing upon the tables and of the sharp flap of the
and the interior lighted, though 'obscurely, as cards in the ,figers of the , dealers. The
if darkness was -courted rather than light. apartment'was dense with tobacco smoke and
Nevertheless within could be seen several disgusting with the furiies 'of wine.
men, some smoking, others seated at little ' On entering the door of the 'cbaret the
tables playing at doininoes, and others drink- riaque hesitated Kimoiarent before'prdeeeding
ing singingand, altogether, manifesting a father in,when a man who was gi-otesquely
very high degree of rude, hilarity.  Some of masked with-a horse's head, detetitinghmn,
td , guests were, grotesquely marked, and said in a tone of exultation, .'
about'the door 'lounged others of both sexes,  'A  prize, a prize!  We have, a cavalier
vuliously disguised, but all .evidently of the among us, spurred and booted. You must
lowest elass of the inhabitants  . - '  ride, sir cavalier, or give good bottle reason'
'The ian in the oiser negre after a moa why you willnot. A horse'fora cavaLier and
ment's:survey drew from the breast of his a cavalier for a horses' 'Aed the map turned
eavote th'e mask he had before exhibatedshim- round and presented' linb'c  which' had a
sel fn to those around Iis:eabriolet,&amp;ud cross- saddle lashed upo at.R
ing the street entered' the - low, doorof the ca-  'Give the fellow Wine, sehor,'sid tiia si
baret.. Its'interiroi indicated it as of lowest or- in an annoyed tone, speaklhj in 'Spanish to,
der., On the left, before a tier .of shelves the keeper of the cabaret and throwing" dott
shining, with black wine bottles, jars of cerises upon the counter a piece of 'mohey..
bottle* of hoyeau, and absynth, stood a filthy  'Thanks, senor,' said the horse's head-mak#
counter covered with cigar boxes' bladders ing a grve bow of acknowledgment. 
of snuff, piles of Bologne sausages,., bunches  'Benito, I would a few ,words' with you,'
of leeks and -a miscellaneous assortment of said the cavalier, leaningjigwarlssthe cabaret
the-ingredients that go to make up a French keeper andspeaking in a low tolie..
grocery for-the cabaret is both .grocery and  'Is it you, seno  Raimfelf..  Yom  wear a
winb shop. Behind this counter was visible merry mask to night. Pass throuorh the c41
a very slender little dark man vith 'an enor- aret to'the other end and' j'ou wileiee a cur-
mims head, or with more, propriety an enor- tain-that red one by the left of the box. Put'
momi head supported by at very slender body it aside and open a door which wift lead 'you
and legs. The head was covered? Withlshag- to a roOm 'I only invite m  particular friends
gy black hai- that hung elf-like over the eyes into.'                " '      ~
which were large and snake like .in their  'I am then honored,' said the Spaniard iti
quiek1 glittering movements. The nose was a haughtyttone. B't without hesitating he
larg and Roman-; the mouth hideQus, and passed oni -through thie crowded, apartment
hal hid iri a very hairyimnustache. Altogeth- towards the cui-tain, which he put aside, and
er the appearance was that of a boy wearing opening a door disappeared within;

,0

'Teresa,' called'the defbribbd head, who had
been addressed as Benito, looking behind him
through the dooreinto theinridr room'n 'where
are you, maldita. Cojie hithir and tend the
shop while 1-go ind see ba customer on buni-
ness.' A yountand exceedingly handsome
mulatressi dressed -with ,a -great- display of
showy colors, obeyed histcall'by coming froin
the inner room and taking:her place ivt the
bar.
' See that .you'do well, now,' he said me-
nacingly; 'and if I catch you flirting' with
any of the customers I'lL make you suffer for
it, you may depend onit!!'
With this menace Benito with the shaggy'
head left his pbs+'and todk- his way towards
the 'door'through which-his guest had disap
peared.
"We havesaidthat the cabaret of 'Benito the
Spaniard made 'upin exterit on the ground
floor for .'ts' deflciencyh irk stories. On one'
street it embraced 'besides the. shop proper,
w hich was -a'long-'narrow -apartment, two
rooms beyond; the one into which the' crape
mask had goie and one stilt beyond that; thus
makinq-a suite of connected rooms., On the
othet street 'waO a suite 'also -"of four rooms,
each of which-had a glass door opening upon
the street, as' well asdort in the walls for
communication within. ' These rooms were
let out by 'Befito for lodging-rooms to his bet-
ter'elass of guests, that is those who could
pay best. -'Berii'Soto was a seaman and his
guests were usually-of tlisclass of men. This
cabaret wasd'well' known to every Spanish
skipper who.rua between the .Balize and the'
Moro, or the castle- of SariJuan" do Ulloa. At
the 'period of our stoi-y Benito's rooms were
without occupantslsavethe one nighest the
calabozo and situated 'mext beyond that into
whidh the stranger 'had' entered. Who the
occupant of this was wl be duly made
known.             .  .2.f .I -.
The Spaniard, or Don Rafael as we. shall
henceforth call him, was just entering the
cabaret from the street when the [young giel
who 'had bnens speaking' withthe gendarme
came up; and seeing hiin go in she stopped to
observe'his movements.
'A  proper lookifhg-cavalier in height and
figure!' sid she., 'What can he want in Beni-
to's cabaret? fle looks ndt like' one of his
guests or bon camarada#; 'and if men go not
in there' for Benito's Wines'they go in 'for
Benito's nischief. .Well, I have 'enough of
my own affairs to think of to night- without
troubling my head aboat'thdse 'of others. I
hope Louis as 'not'tnissed me~! 'No, I see him
"-still at the table'!'".
Thus speaking' she .tripped along a little
ways on the side of the street over against the
cabaret; -and then quickly crossed toward a
door which opened into the rootmwe havedes.'
cribed aseimg the third from the corner and
next to that into whlch 'Benitountad followed
Don Rafael. The outside door' was double
leaved and capable of being strongly 'losed;i
whie on the inside 'wansa'glasa door, or porte

7

6

Iitret, with a crimson cdrtain dropped before
it froin the ceiling to the floor through whieh
came a rich glowas if froma lightwith in. She
turned alkey'in the door and entered. The
apartment presented a singular'contrast to the
rough and mouldy exterior of the steep-roofed
f edifice. It was spacious, and furnished qpM
i that luxury which so often strikes the eyb 'of
the passenger through the half-opened doors
of similar structures as he wanders thrimkh
the streets of the French Municipality. The
two tall windows as well as the door, were
hung with long crimson curtains relieved by
muslin drapery with deep worked borders..
A French couch, partly hid by'a screen stocd
at the back of the room, and a sofa, and al
handsome buffet, glittering with silver 'and
glass, were -on the side. Articles of luxury
were placed about the room as ornaments,
ard oVer the mantle was a' shrine ofthle Ma-
donria before which burned a wax candle, time
only light in the room; but by the soft rich
glow of which, reflected floin the crimson
curtains, all these objects were distinctly vis-
ible.
She had opened the door softly ind closed
it in the same manner like one who would niot
be heard. She then went towards the door
which communicated with'the adjoining apart-
ment, saying,
' I can tell if Louis has come through by
the fold in the curtain. Yes,' she said with a
look of alarm! 'The fold is ot as I left it!
He has been in and missed me! Well I will
tell 'him I only ran out to look at a carnivat
procession. ,He has left the door ajar, too!
Hark! there are voices within ! I must lis.
ten. It is' Benito's voice and that of a stran-
ger. Let me :see better. There! I have
opened it a little more.' -They are so busy
they did not hear me. What can they be
talking about? I can see the stranger's figi
ure. It is he who  saw ge intd the cabaret
Perhaps it was Behito who cane into the room
to see if any body was here.'
She *as right., Benito on entering'the oth-
er apartenent had said to his guest,
' If you deSite that which'you have to say
should be private, senor, I will just step in
this roon to see if any' one is here. ' It iS Oc-
cupied by my lodgers.
'1 wiSh 'the strictest privacy, Benito,'~an-
swered Don Rafael.
' Bueno'!' answered Benito. 'I will then
look out, agrainit one pair'br female ears over.
hearing von, and send them away if I can.'
And the beformned with a low toned laugh aps
proachea the door and rapped. Hearing no
response he opened it And 'peeped into the
room.' All was quiet. The wax candle burn'
ed before the Madonna, and all was still. He
entered and looked carefully round and satis-
fied hiinself 'that theloccupant was absent.
'There is no danger, senor. Madame Louis-
ette istout. .I rill, however,; leave tme door
ajar that I may know when she'-returns.'
And Benito re-entered the room leaviklg the
communicating door ajr.

lW'PERATE '


EL1 ?IRATAi

-Now, senor Don Rafael, what good news s
has given me the honor of this visit.: It is a v
long time since we met.'    I -I        .
' It is no good news,' answered the Span- n
iard. 'Benit~o, I need your services in a matter
of deeper moment to me than you can con- a
eive.'                    .r.
'Love ?' repeated the maitre de cabaret.  l
' Yes in plain words, love.' -
'How can I serve you?'                 l
Listen !'
(' Yes, I will listen,' said Lousiette to her- 
self, who had entered her room unheard and f
at this moment was looking upon them through
the partly open door, her form hid by, the cur- t
tain before it.]
What she listened to will not be necessary f
to reveal here. The conversation .continued a
for full half an hour and at times, on the part t
of the Spaniard, was loud and warm. At t
length they both rose and Benito let his visit- t
or forth by the door that opened upon the:
street. At the same moment Louisette made
a noise of opening and closing her own door
as if just conie in, a noise wihch effectually
deceived Benito.t
'Ah, bueno! Madamoiselle Louisette has
kept abroad just long enough,' he added as he 4
heard'her. 'She would have heard a capitalI
secret with her two ears if she had been all
the while in the next room even with the doorI
shut and the curtain down; for Don Rafael is
not gifted with the softest voice, especially
when he is excited. Ah, this is a rare matter,'
he added as helocked the door after bidding
his guest 'IBuenas, Noches.' This -is a rare
affair,[Iand I have given , Don Rafael a spice of
wisdom that will effect his object as well as
stilettoes. I am tired of using steel. Nature
has given me a bounteous head and 1 will use
it instead. I will put my wits against other
villains poignards! Don iafael at first thought
n )thing could be done without a dagger. Wit
is sharper than a stiletto.. Ah, Madamoiselle
Louisette, there you are peeping in. Do you
fall in love with my handsome head. You
see I have no need to go to the expense of
a mask at carnival!    Nature, hath been
kind-'
' Ai, Monsieur.Benito,' said Lonisette, I
ami glad to see you so good-natured to night.
You are usually so very savage.'. She spoke
playfully. But the Deformed's good humor
was not 'long lived,' and he allowed no one
but himself to make jesting allusions to his
personal aspect. He would allude to his hid-
eousness himself and seem to mak" %t and
mirth of it; but it was from a mnvbed prinei.
ple of self-defence, lest others should fore.
stall him and make him their jest. The Span-
iard had left a purse heavy with gold in his
hand and this had 'made him feel in good hu-
mor. But it is dangerous to triflewith men
whom nature has caticatured,   .
' And what can you -Iok for in a-beast but
savageness?' he replied to .her in a growling
tone~of ferocity,      ,  - .:
' Merci ! Monsieur Benito,' screamed Loui-

ette retreating, fIam sure you are not afgry
with me.' .
No, tnq child! -Yotr are good-you meant
mothinge' he.sid in a kind tone,
' Now you are an angeltMonsieur Benito,'
aid Louisette laughing and speaking ink a
merry .musical tone ; and she -extended her
ittle soft olive brown hand to him. He took
t with his thin pale hand, the veins in which
ooked like a net work of blue threads, and
would have kissed it; but she drew it from
hin before it reached his lips and held up her
rore-fitmger with a playfully threatening air.
'Pronez garde, Monsieur Benitol I shall
ell Louis.'      4 1-'*1            -
' Louis is my good friend! I would not of.
rend him. But you -are verybeautiful, Mad.
imoiselle Louisette! It must be a happiness
to be beautiful,'.he added in a tone of'mixed
bitterness and sadness. 'Is it not a happiness
to know that your fellow beings look-on you
with pleasure, Madamoiselle?',
She was impressed by the earnestness and
dejection of his voice and manner.
' 1 pity you, Monsieur ,Benito,' she said
touchingly.         -
'Pity C'he repeated in a. disoleased- tons.
'Yes, you pity me! I am pitied-I am only
pitied! It is something- to have you -pity,
Madamoiselle !. It humanizes.-,me! . But 1
have had men's pity and it, maddens me ! I
would rather have their hatred yea, their de-
rision, as I often have ! - Oh, Madamoiselle
it is a curse to be hideous in men's eyes! I
sometimes have gnashed my teeth and foam-
ed at the mouth when I thought upon myself.
But one can bear-up against men. But to be
a thing of fear and bathingg to the fairest of
creation-to be shunned and pitied and never
lookedkindly upon by the young and the
beautiful-this it-is, Madamoiselle, which
makes existence such, as mine a curse!'.
' You feel too much, Monsieur,' she said
with sympathy.  -  .               -..
' I have felt; but Ido not feel now,' he said
in a deep voice. 'The time is ,passed when-I
should feel! I amnow six and thirty, Mada-
moiselle andyet I feel as-if I had.lived a cen-
tury. Grey hairs mingle in my darklocks
and deep lines pf age nake my natural de-
formity more.hideous! , I have :felt, but that
time .is passed.! I loved then 6'
' Loved, Monsieur Benito ?'.
Louisette could not suppress with the ex.
clamation a searcelyperceptible note of laugh-
ter, like a half utterrednote in a nightingale's
throat.It caught the ear sof. the deformed
and he clenched-his thin .hands and stamped
his small feet with rage, while the dark eyes
set deep in his'huge, head gleamed like stars.
.'Pardon, Monsieur Benito!'
He made no reply, batstriking his massive
forehead with his hand he stood,-a moment as
if the-spirit of a demon was within him.
' Monsieur BenitoI did not meant wound
you! Tell ume .of your love." -
' Listen then,'.he said changing his whole
mnaniner instantaneously as-if be, had his feel-

S

JR  fIRATA-
ings under perfect mastery. 'I loved, for my One of the party was a tall powerful -man,
soul is not deformed, and I could love.; The with fair hair and full whiskers, and a keen
object of it was a beautiful maiden the daugh- blue eye. ' His costume was that of an Amer-
ter of a Grandee of Spain '  ,          can seaman, of the better class, save that the
'Ofa Grandee, Monsieur Benito ?'      scarlet sash was tied a la Espanol about his
&amp; Do you start? I myself am the son of a waist, and he wore in it the lcng sharp poig.
Spanish Grandee out of wedlock. Money nal. His countenance expressed fearlessness
was "iven for my ,maintenance and beyond and, self-posession in a remarkable degree.
that I grew up uncared for. I had wealth and Opposite to him sat a man in the costume of a
knew my birth. But I grew up as you see bojador,*that is, of master of one of the river
rme-with the form of a boy and the head of -a shallops. He was a slender, dark visaged
giant. Yet I lov'd ! In the contemplation man with an aspect dauntless -and yet treicha
of the object of my passion I forgot my: own erous. His dress was a red cap with a tassal,
hideousness. I dared to write to her and a blue camina and striped cotton trowsers;
confess my passion. She sent me in reply-' and at his girdletwhich was of black heathern
'What, Monsieur?'                     was stuck a short Spanish cuchillo, such as is
'A mirror !'                           used by matadores.
Louisette would have laughed, but that sha  These two were smoking their cigars and
caught the menacing eye of the Deformed the listening to the third person of the group with
expression of which awed her.           an.air of interest and deference, This mdi-
From that moment I became mad. I don't vidual sat with his, back to-the crowd of mask-
know what I did! I wasted my fortune in ers and garners in the cabaret. His figure was
the wildest schemes of extravagince. . I was slight and youthful, and his dress was that of
declared a lunatic and confined by chains. I one who followed the sea for a profession;
broke them. I escaped and for years wander- but his linen was very. fine, and his costume
ed on the sea, at war with man. I was a pi. gay and gallant. His face was youthful and
rate and blood was my passion. -But time exceedingly handsome; but wine and dissi-
passed and long illness subdued me and I be- pation had given it that peculiar look often
came wiser. 1 labored as other men did, and seen in dissolute young men. His dark brown
I laughed when they gazed pn me in wonder. hair was naturally soft and curling, askd-fell
I have been two years keeping this cabaret, in rich, careless masses about his. negligent
for 1 feel better with something to do.., But I collar. His eye was-of a fine brown, hue, and
have never forgotten the maiden whom I dared while it had the beauty of a handsome wo-
to love, and who taught me such a lesson,' man's, it was characterized by the fire of a
he said in a singular tone of voice,    bold, manlyspirit. His mouth was beautiful,
' What has become of her, Monsieur P ask- yet determined, and his whole face expressed
ed Louisette with interest,      , -    a .smingulars union of feminine softness with
' I;slew her with this hand!' he said in a masculine courage. : On his hand glittered-a
voice of such savage vindictiveness that Loui brilliant stone ring, and the endb of hisblack
sette started back with a cry of thorror.-- cravat were confined by finger! ring in which
Senor BenitosnMiled with derision and tri- glowed a.large- ruby. -He howed no arms
umph and- drawing back the curtain .disap- upon his person, though by his side lay upon
geared through. the door into the noisy cab, the table a- handsomely mounted pistol. - The
aret. The Quadroone, (for such Louisette features of this young iman were- decidedly-
was) on recovering from her surprisein a rto- American. His air was that ofone who was a
meat afterwards passed through after him.. . superior among those with, whom lie was as-
sociated.
Ah Monsieur Benito,' he said, suddenly
dropping his.grave conversation and speaking
CHAPTER III. .in a lively tone,,as this personage. re-entered
the cabaret;A it is well you are come back. All
-        .      -. .   goes wrong whenyou are away.'  .
' What now, Captain Louis?' asked the
The Three Guests of Senor Benito-The Story master ofthe cabaret, bowing-low to the young
of Paul-TAe Bold .Ict of Don Rafael.  man.
'The wine is drunk up! The cigars are
AMONo the varied and motley, groups which smoked up! The players are calling for new
the cabaret contained, was one consisting of packs to play at masca, and Teresa your pret4
three men gathered about a table in one of the ty mulAtto slave cannot serve her customers
curtained alcoves or boxes, at, the farther end Ifor the horrible masks that are crowding roun d
of it, and near the door by which Benito had makinghideous love to her. See to it4- Mon-
entered from the inner room. The curtain of sieur Benito
the alcove was partly raised,~ and a lamp ii .will,- Senor Lonis,' answered Benito
swinging above the table shed its full1 glare. laughing. ' Will you have more wine, cable
upon their features. .               -  leros,?'
The three had .wine and cigars and cards ' Not now !' .answered -the young mean,
before them; but they were neither drinking, ' wait on others first. Wait on others!1 W e
nor playing, but conversing in ai low tone. can htide our time,. Senor Benito-!

I


11

HL PM1tATA(~

i ueo, tSenor,'responded Benito iastei
ing through thu 'iotley throng to his comni~e
XYou.said, Pul,' said the young 'sailor, it
stantly-changing his voice ard manneron B
nito's leaving- them, to  one-of gravity at
seriousness, ' that you 'were onboard the bri
"Yes,' answered the tall light haired ma
whom he hadaddressed;   I'marked well he
position and that of the schooner. They ar
lying side-by side, beam -and beam, about
twelve feet apart and lashed together b
transverse spars;. one passing from the gand
way of the brig to the Polacca's main chain
theother passes -across from the' !brig'k -for
chains into, the schooner's -ri gging.'
as thndishe Polaccaanchored, too, as we
'aes.'                            . '' P
The-young, man was thoughtful- a  omen'
and,.thensaid firmly while his eye 'wa
fixed penetratingly upon thesothers face,
"aul, I -fear you are trying to lead me int
a trap A  dBut,. ifyou prove treacherouss, br
ware!' And he touched lightly with hi
finger the pistol that lay on the Iable by hi
hand.
'You may trudat me, Captain Louis,' answr
ed Paul with emphasis and striking his hanw
against his breast. 'I-would not deceive you
aIf you would giveme a good reason' wh'
you are so- ready to-betray your 'service,
could act with'more confidence, and trust ii
you. But when a man whom I-know to be it
the naval services and who served on boar
the brig that captured the schooner,'- comet
voluntarily to me here at this cabaret a ctell
me that he can show mea way of'recovering
theieolacca, I mistrusthir naturally  I mus
believe it is a planlaid to entrap me.'
'You are wise to b cautious, Mr. Louis,
said the man. 'ButI have a motive,' he sai
in atdeep voice, 'which was tremulous wit
emotion, while his clear,'blue eyes lighted'ul
and flashed. fire. *Listen 'to  me!',- h
continued' bending  over the  table -,and
speaking huskily. 'You knew me when']
was a young man and you then a' boy, some
six or seven years older.. You regnemGer tha
I would never be struck by my teacher ! and
thMt Inever forgave .a blow' from a fellow
You, remember, auch was my character.'
4'1 do, Paul.'
Well; my poor mother died aftar you en.
tered the navy as a middy, and as I was lefta
beggar, as all prison'ss 'childreadlJave' been
and are likey  to be, 1 entered the service as a
fbremast-hand, hoping-I s ould fall in with
some ship and sail under ou;s for, Louis, I
aiwaysliked you from a lad!.
"Forgive my suspicions,-'Paul,' cried Louis
frankly extending his hand and graspiig that
of his former school-fellow.   ny.no more,
My-friend.'
'Iwil clear myself to you now I have be-
gn Master Louis, so that you may trust nie.
higher than tobecaptai of tefore~'top Wel

n.I changedlfroni ship to ship and' at last' ship.'
r, pe in this gi-ri, the Creole, at Havana, a
n fewVeeks ago, an2 was in'het as you know'
e- when she captured 'the 'po'lacba iffthe alize
id -the hatdestfirght that a sixteen gun brig
g ever had. Ybu fought four iressel like a tiger,
Louia,'and WOed her like a sailor.'
an "'And wo' sheild have &amp;ot away fro-d the
Jr brig, if we hadn't run on thit bar.'
' A sch6ner of only sixguns never fought
t each an anta'gohist as you did  ix to sixteen.
y Well, Iknewyou when I saw ybdon her deck,
- for I'had heard hbbut your having been
s-, cashiered fioni the niavy for having shot your
re superior officer'in a duel fif striking Yu.
You did right, Master Louisi, yot-did righit!
ll repeated Paul with energy. ' Well, 'wag cdx.
swain of' one of the'boats which put aftef you
when you todk 'to your boats, and I4a'ge dp
t, with youjust as'you were entering the Adith
LI 6f a lagoon. 'It' was just 'dark, but I could see
that Yoit were in'the b6at 1 was nioghet to,
o ahd I purposely steered so 'that we'shoild
ground; for the way we were pullingirin three
s minutes we should have been up with you. 'I
is grounded her, and you shot ahead.'
-I recollect you now, Paul, 'though" I did
not then know the tall -oxswain at my heels',
d was my old fiierid Paul. "'I remember I owed
my escape to your boat's grounding: for I had'
y' but four of iw men with m6, and should have
I been taken had you overhauled me. And I
n owe my safety to your old friendship, Paul.
n'There is my band, my brave" friend ! You
d need say no more?" said the young nan with
ff emotion.
4   'It isn't worth mentioning, master Loijis,
g but what I have to add 'will tell you wivy'[
t cameto seek you out to-night. My Captain;
displeased at your escape and' who, iith his
'glass,was watching the pursuit from thb brie's
dl qarter-deCk, sWore it was my carelessn'ess
tand 'hauled 'me up. I Was sentenced tore
pceive thirty-nine lashes -on mylhitre bick."'
-This 'wts spoken in a tone that came from
his 'very chestL  His voieC trembled jeith'
[emotion. His brow was contracted with stern
feelings, and his hands clenched. The coun-
t tenance of Louis showed his painful interest.
1 The bojador listeried -in silent indifference.
'The boatswain was ordered to pipe all
hands to witness punishment. I was stripped
'and lashed to the rigging. The signal was
given by'the captain, anid---'
The sailor gnashed his teeth and - hie eyes
grew red with the intensity of his feelings.,
' 6 Enough, Paul,' said Louis in a calm tone,
but-which concealed strong ernhotion. "
' The panishunent was inflicted! -The-lashed
were given' to the count one by one.' I bore'
the-in'll without m6vig a matuscle. I did not
betray by -a 'rhoan the hellish torture I was
undergoing. Bdi't the fire burned in my heart!
I was unbound and may jacket -wts restored'
to me. I did not look round, for i felt-lwags
no .longer a 'urn. I had re"i vedl blows--
bwsthe lBsh  ag aype and spirit was

heart tjiat  would he aveoged on th) officer
that.h  d digraded'me- in the eyes of my fel-
lows. I .   t about-my. duty.too,haughty to
go to myvhaniock. They t    ght my si
lenct.and fo~earance wassbmission. They
haveyet, to know it wAs the silence that pre-
cedest the vcano's eruption.'
He leaned is head upoa the table and was
for a few moments silent, The eyes of Louis
were falledWith idignant light.  His hand
had involurtarily grasped his pistol.
'Paul-', he said in a toneof sympathy, .lay
ing his h ad on, 'his. 'Leai, you. shall be
avenged- Iunew'not-what I owed to you.'
a'eou will trust me,. now, Louis0' asked
Paul raising his'face with a gloomy smile
uponit
'With my lire, Paul.'
'You can do so with safety, Master Louis
After the brig and her prize reached the city
I was resolving in my mind a plan of ven.
'anoetgainst the man who had degraded-me
.submisseve meaner deceived, him ard
others and I was treated as before. Twc
night's ago I was op 'watch with $wo others
on the polacca's deol1, the.rest ofthe, vatcl
being on the brig's, when Ioverheard two o
the pirates-..Ibpg pardora, fiesta Louis-t w
of yopr crew ,vho  wejad talent prisoner
with a dozen other talking together below i
Spanish, which I uiyderstQod.. I heard then
mentioryour name, and that interested ie
From what they said I gathered that you ha
given orders ;when you-quit your vessel, fo
all your men that should escape, to seek on
Benito Soto's cabaret on Rue Royale where
they woud get n  spfyou.' Onoverhe in,
thi~s, I made. up, any, amid. Thenext. day
went, ashore with a boat's, crew, to land th
captain   p went to the couit to see wh
should he;,doae with the -pirates, 1 nean yo
m ,), Master Loujs, wljo till remained o
'Dan't correct yburself,. Paul,' said 0b
young.ap14igl'ing.
o k eo        unity o see if there wa
such A place and.found-this cabaret. .I the
askey denitoitemUew what had become
the polacc.caeptain. whohad escaped ? , H
refused to say ny thing, but askedtme for ti
word, ThisI ha4 not, and was going awa
disapointed, whenLheard this Sepor.Roq'
ask for you ard give the word 'Creole.' Th
I gave to Benito -who then told me y
weze lodging at his houp.- So I madeup a
mind whaf to .do; and after..retUening .
board I began to study out the ;beat way,
cuttting out the schooner, ifafr ,I sho d 's
y     ou wouldengagein it.  Tomnigbt 1 g
off on thepleg of' isee  the carnival and ca
directly here. Benito told me you were
this box talking with the bojador. Now, y4
know my reasons, Master Louis, for offerii
to assist you to recover your schooner.'
' And right good ones they are, my bra
-fellow,' said Louis, grasping him warmly
the hand, ' The project of' recapturing
little schooner was already in my mind ; I h

sent for this honest 'Nicot -Roqdle tvho com-.
mands aafastsailing luggerthatruns between
this and.Plaquimen,for the purpose ofmaking
a bargain with him for a night's usesof his
craft. My plan was to getras nany of myrmen
together as 'I couldvmtsterror the pirdgue
would hold and carry he schooner cutlass hnA
'Toodaring and rash, Master Louis.'
I know we should riskikomething. BUt I
thought by coming. dawn hpon her with the
current-,and boarding, her over the bowh we
could drive the guard overboard, cut -her
away from the brig and so get her into our
hands. But I didn't know ishe was lashed
to-her by.transverse spate. They must have
feared s6me attempt upon her,',,
'No!' They   do not 'suspect - you  are
in the city "o' my certiiins knowledge,
a two-nastedi guei-boat is fitting' out for
the -purpose of seeking out- your suppied
haunts! abbut the south-west pass.  How
I did you reich-the city, Master Louis.?'
'   i We made-for the passes among, the Chand
o deleur Islesland so into Lake Borgne. and by
h a bayou :emerged into the river not far below
f the  Battle-ground. My boat is there now
o in safety.?
s   F How many men have you ?',-   -
n ' Thirteen have reported themselves to
m Renito; ,and I have no doubt others will be
. coming in, though I lost in killed-and' pris-
d oners some of my best. -My . Lieutenant- was
r killed by my: side. A brave fellow, and .I
e could but, ill spare him. it is important Paul
e that we recapture-our vessel ,while ,my men
are still _confined on board; of her. - t
I will- be, so many gained) .and, there are, some
e of my best men among them-'
kt  'They will probably be reiioved soon for
ir trial. They would have been taken ashore beu
n fore, but 1.heaid ouraccursed.CAptaintellone
of the swabsi that the, priadna were too fdll t
le accommodate any mote juethow.'
"So,much the better,' We must have onr
xs plan ripe for'execution by toemorrbw night or
1n the next, at the farthest. lU will. find ot to-
9f morrow morning when they are 'likely to be
e removed for their trial., Youwill. remain;on
. board the brig, stillPaul
ty   Yes. -I can best.aid-you there.. Besides if
ue I should leave her nowv I should bef hunted
is up by the gensdarines and retaken,,,and theh I
ou could do -you'no good. There must be no
iy suspicions that it is my intention to quit the
on  brig.' a -:j
of A' You are .cautious, Paul., Your services
eg are'worth you weight in gold to me.'
ot   'I'suppose I can trust our comrade here ?'
oe 'Nicole .Roque is trusty. He may be ,reo
in lied on Paul. But,-faith, his'honesty must
ou be Igilded orit ih like to rust. Is it not :so,
ng amigo' .asked the young. man with,. fine
frarik smile.
ye ' If I dotterviceforothers Senor, I ask'gold
by in returned ,Isit not just l' and the 'bejador
ny smiled grirbly~
ad ' You shall' have' gold Nicole. What

I


12

gglIyATAg

weight of it shall you require to put your roone that caused him to stop. He had other
lugger and yourself and two hands under my business. But Louisette for the moment di-
commuand frora this.time, till the schooner is vided his'attention, foi her volptuous beau-
retaken''                               ty of form and what he was able to see of
A n-onza a day, Senor.'              her face,'pleased the eye and imagination of
Well you shall have an ounce a day. a man who was noted for his galltntries.
Where does she lay now?               ' She started wheno he addressed her; for she
Opposite Rue d'Ursuline, near the mar  recogn d the  ice-ofddhesaid er who d
ket.'the interview with Benito.
'"That is below the brig. You must haul  'Do not beterrified, n  belle quadroone''
her up as high-as:Rue-Conti, so that we can he said touching her 'hand. 'e hat does
take the stream down. At the-foot of thatetreet such beautyin a place like this? Why "are
keep her ready for a start at any moment.'  you not gracing ome of5the fetes,,to-night!
The bojador made a 'gesture of assent, and That face the envious  mask hides must be
Louis was about to order wine,' when his at- too lovely to be concealed. Let me remove
tention was arrested by a scene .in the ear- itn?'m
baret near the bar. Louisette, it will be re-  'No, monsieur.' She said in a tone:of
membered had entered the cabaret from the haughty contempt, and drawing back 'oom
innbr room a littlewhile after Benito. . See- him.
ing Louis engaged closely in conversation  'Tate! You are pert, and spoiled "he said
with :the two men, and noting that he did not ang-ily, and passing 'er by he advanced
observe her entrance  she walked along jostling rudely thos who stood near, towards
through the i masked' crowd.. Still ".wearing the counter where Benito stood serving his
her veil and mask beneath it. Some fell-back cutuner  e     i    o     r      s
for her to pass, and others paid her:gallant  'I am ready, Senoi Benito.'
compliments upon her beauty of figure and  4Y6u shall not wait, Don'Rafael,' answer-
the elegance of her walk. She only laughed ed the keeperof the cabaret.
in repiy and seemed to amuse herself wholly 'Haste, ood Benito, for 'tis past seven.'
in-admiring the variety of costumes and the  'Teresa, he said to the mulatress,  I have
grotesque aspects of themasks of those about business abroad. -The maskers will soon be
her. On the' pave was a party dancing toth  off to the, :ites and leave you little to do.
sound of music and thither she directed her They are moving off o  Ishall return by
steps occasionally turning back as if watching night.' Then turning to Don Rafaelhe sraid,
Louis and waiting for him to leave the alcove.  'Go then forward, Senor.' I will proceed
She'stood in the door of-the cabaret' looking alone by another way. In ten minutes Ihall
on and laughing with the, others' at;the ex- be there f"
ttavaganzair ofthie dancers on the walk, when  "Bien dicho,' answered the Spaniard turn-
twoborsemen coming by atfull gallop reined ing away to leave the cabaret. Louisette
in a moment to gazeon the ,group and listen still stood in the door, her gie fixed no ln
to the music, 'Theelegant-figure ofLouisette er upon the dancers bit upon hi'thiough h er
in 'the door-way, her 'fine 'outline -,relieved mask. 'You must alloW me tW sahite you,
against the :light seemed, to have. arrested Mademoiselle, said Don Rafael as he pa
their attention, and one ofthemn 'alighting ad- her; at the same time throwing his rmn
vanced towardsher. He, was dressed as an around her waist he drew her towards himself.
Italian cavaliers and his sable plume graceful-  Quick as lighting a smld r towar in senf.
ty waved-above his brow as he.stepped, '  ' hand glea'med before' his eyes. 'ath a' augh
6A Inerry Carni#al, madamoiselle,' he said' and unheedingr it heattempted to lift' her veil
in a gay tone addressing her in French, but and tear off her mask, when h felt the point
with foreign accent. It was the voice of piercing his shoulder: He 'caught herarm
Rafael Valdes.-' He was hotnow masked, and ere it penetrated deep and tore the rnash afrom
his -countenance though dark wos etceeding-- her features. They were of extreme'beauty,
ly fine' and manly; but there was an, habit- and fired bI revenge nd  assion  he  y,
nal sinister -expression in his brilliant leyes dee oath cagh her up'in i arm  ad
which matred the'bobility which nature.' had leapedupon his hose Wit her, seating h
stamped upon'his .features. From the Caba- self in theosaddle with masterly skill.' The
ret after his interview with Benito he had re- horse imudderned bythespurs wkich he buried
turned to his cabriolet and driving back to the to the rowel sprun  forward like' the  'n4d-
Morisco looking mansion from which we had and the next -moment, followed 'by' the other
seen him come forth just after' dark and !ride'horseman, helhad disperd fro  the 1si h
awayv He had there remained long enough to of the confounded group Abotut the door of the
change hiuicostume for the one he anow wore ; cabaret.
and-then orddring a horse that lie might'better
traverse the streets and commanding a serv-
ant to attend him, dressed in all points -like     ''____
his counterpart,- but masked 'with a drape
visor he rode forth a second time, and 'took
his way at top speed along Rue Royale. It-
was n'ot the beauty of the fgure of the quad-

I

EBk PRATA.
CHAPTER IV.                 be put aside and kept waiting fot a Woran,
accursed be the sex.  Well that's' Captain
Louis'saffair and let him settleit! Ah, there
are the sounds of a horse'* feet V No.: It is
Tke Ride- The Rescue -Tkc convent-TAe the wind whistling throughithe gaps in these
Spaniard-and.BPenito,                 old barrack walls,,and bricks falling down. I
was to have met Don Rafael here and .gone
This bold deed of the Spaniard would have with him to this padre I will wait-a while,
been regarded by the by-stander. as one of the and if he come hot, 1 will return, But fide
licenses allowed by carnival time, and ap- onzas are worth waiting: a' bt for!' Thus
plauded, but for the words of vindictiveness speaking,' Bdnit; Soto,-wrapped his shrivelled
uttered by Don Rafael and the signs of .alarm form in his cloak, for the .wiid had risen and
and terror in the young girl. As it was, some xhe night was becoming chilly and blustering,
shouted applause at the .skilful execution of and began to pace up and down in the shadow
the act, while others were transfixed with of the wall of the Convent.
surprise. But a loud shriek uttered by Loui-  In the meanwhile we will return to Don
sette as the horseman leaped with, her light Rafael.. On tearing off the mask fromthe face
figure upon his arm into his saddle and gal- of Louisette he had recognised 'the features
loped off, reached the ear, of Lfouis, who at of a beautiful quadroone, whom he had twice
once recognised it. He leaped across the ta. before seen at the' cathedral and become
ble, pistol in hand and, sprung forward into deeply enamored with; and maddened with
the midst of the floor, which was nearly de- rage and inspired by hisapabsion, and-with the
serted by those who had rushed towards the hope of possession, he-conceived the idea unp
door. His eye fell on Benito 111howas just der the, mask of Carnival license to carry her
leaving his bar?'                       off. Being a thorough thorseman and the
'What is this, Benito  'I surely heard young girllight, he mounted his horse with
Louisette's shriek?'                    ease bearing her in his arms. The sight of-a
'A cavalier in a freak has talken her upon rider carrying a female before him at such a
his horse and galloped off witihher,'answered time he well;knew would excite no curiobity,
Benito with a laugh-;'and then added to him. Every thing Rxtravagant or unflsual was at-
self, 'methinks Don Rafael had enough to do tributed to a masquerading freak. He, there-
'with looking alter one woman without trou- fore, dashed along -the streets, excitingno
bling himself with two. But so he be at the other remark than open, praise of hisdhorse-
rendezvous and I haye my gold I am content. manship, by the . passers by, mingled with
There goes Louis to the door like an enraged cries of 'viva I bravo, cavalier.-t
eagle! Well, if women love me not, I am at  By pressing Louisette's face closely beneath
least free from the care and trouble they give his cloak he prevented her  making any. qut-
one!'        .                          cry. The whole act hadtbeen so sudden and
With this remark,-Benito, opened a closet impulsive that he had-no time to Teflect, and
behind.the bar and'took fdrth t huge hat with no plan of action formed  But-after turning
a broad brim, a short black cloak- and staff; the corner of the cabaret he resolved to seek
and prepared to leave his shop. Louis had his own abode. Thither then he directed his
sprung to the door, and there learning which course, taking the next turning to the left into
way the horseman had gone, he pursued with the Place d'Armes, which he crossed at speed
the speed of a grey-hound. -.Benito also came into Rue Chartres. t He then took the right
out' and took the way alone along Rue St. up Rue Toulouse closely followed by his ser-
Pierre past the prisons. He turned the corner vant, who was mounted as well as dressed pre-
by the guard-house on the Place. d'Armes, cisely like himself. As he kenta little behind
where stood several gensdarmes:smoking and some supposed it to be:a pursuit, and cheered
idling about their head quarters.  Passing Don Rafael'on,; for ,public feeling always'
along beneath the dark shadows of the cathe- goes with the, successful one. Others en-
dral towers, and along the corridor of the couraged with loud cries the servant who
Cour de Justice, he left the Place d'Armes on seemed in their eyes to be pursuing a rival
his right and entered Rue Conde. He trav- who had carried, off his mistress; while all
ersed this at a rapid pace, until he came near laughed and supposed it a carnival frolic.'
the Convent on Rue d'Ursulimes, when he  Entering 'Rue 'Royale, and seeing it nearly
slackened his steps, and seemed to be looking deserted, he took thisavenue instead of con-
about him and to listen. The place where:he tinuing up Rue Toulouse into BOurbon, in
stopped was almost enveloped in darkness, which ,direction, he saw a party of mashers.
which a chain-lamp,swinging across the street By this time, 'with ,great exertion, Louisette
at the corner, scarcely served to illumine. On had freed her face from the folds of his man-
one side of him rose the dark, gloomy walls' tle, and throwing up her head she saw that
and guard houses of the old barracks now they were just crossig Rue St 'Louis for
falling into ruin; while opposite extended the throng of carriages,'and the dazzling light
the high wall of the Convent d'Ursuline, now from there illuminated salon caught her dying
a deserted pile and scarcely less 'ruinous. Igaze, while the crash of music met her ears.
' Can Don Rafael have taken the pretty IShe also -saw thergendarme' to whom she had
Louisette to his quarters first ? 1 am not to s poken an hour or two before, standing at his


Ait

post. nn the hope of rescue, she 'hreked
aloud,; for the development 'of; chkrcter her
captorhd 'hon'iwnhWid intervieWwith;Be-
nito, had'given-her both a horror and detesta'.
tion' of him; and led- her to fear the worst fht
herself in the pewer of such a man whom want
of principle and vadt wealth made powerful -
The gendarme, Jerome Jacot, heard the
shriek, but he eould 'nbt tell whether it was
one 'of laughter or. 'terror ;-Andithe next in-
stant the hotsermen had disappeared. .
'If you shriek thus again, I will bury your
own dagger, with which you would' have slain
me, in your heart,' he muttered close in her
ear.
At this moment her eyerested on a; gentle-
man coming out, of the portale of a statelf
mansion. He was not masked, though his
costume beneath his cloak- betrayed that he
was in a masquerade costume. The light of
the lamp hanging' in the -porte'cochere fell
upo. his face  Itwai that of a gentleman.
Its' expression was elevated and noble, and
singularly attractive.  She threw'o'out her
arms regardless of the threat of Don Rafael,
and cried in athrilling tone, as they came-op-
positoto him,
4Monsieur, Rescue! rescue'!'
The, heart ,must have, been inrsensible to
have resisted auch an appeal: -The' stranger
sprung.forward--Don Rafael spured deep, and
muttered' curses upon her ..head, 'while, with
his:hand-he pressed; her-throat. Thestranger
pursued like the Wind and threw himself up-
on the bridle. The Spaniard struck at him
with the dagger-he had taken from Louisette,
but the stranger caught his armand wrested
the weapon from him. He then with a pow-
erful hand pressed upon the bit and stopped the
progress ofthe horse.'
'Ha, Senor' Valdes! This is serious mas.
querading'!' he cried as Louisette sprung frorn
the saddle and fell abnost insensible into his
arms.
"I am not accountable to you, Noel, 'for my
acts,' retorted Rafael Valdes with ill-conceal-
ed rage. Leave my horse's bit! You shall
dearly pay for this interference !'
'Be it so. I fear not your threats, Valdes,'
he said transferring Louisette -to the care of
old Roger the concierge who had come into the
street to aid his master. 'This poor girl seems
to have been foully done by !. This is no harm.
less Carnival frolic, as I conceived, at' first,
when I saw you approaching at top speed.
I-have prevented mischief, I doubt not.'
'You have laid mischief for- yourself, Mon-
sieur Noel. I shall not' let this insult pass.
You will regret the hour yow ever crossed the
path of Rafael Valdes either in love or gal-
lantry.'
With these words be turned his horse's head
the way he had come and rode away, attend-
ed by his servant,' whom he met just coming
up, the man having rode at a far less pace than
for I see you went not willingly ?'

'Monsieur, {urila  ji "th all my heart,
said Louisette, pale and trembling.  'I was
standing in the door of a-cabaret where I live
when he would have torn off my mask and
kise d me but I drew a'dag'ger! when he
became so enraged that he destroyed my'v rmsk,
and taking me up, as if I had been a child, gal-
loped away with fini Every'body thought it
was a carnival'play and nrio One helpedime.
But for yomv I d6r't-know what'Would have
happened tomne.'
- '"He'is auffinr,' said -the yonng man in-
dignantly. 'It id like him: The helpless and
unprotected are- his victims.'
6I was not 'so helpless, for I have a bus-
band'; at least we' are not married because I
am a quadroone;- but then my heart, mion-
sieur, makes him' My husband just the same!'
I 'love hirm and Ikno'* he lboes me. .But sdie
times 'he makes;'ne'jealous. But n'iriprte.
Oh, *hat 'willpborLouis sky-! What will he
d o?' '
S ro into" the d  rmadamdisle with
Roger,' as you seen distressedand 'wait ill I
send for a cabriolet to take yon where .you
reside,' said the young' gentleman kindly,
addressing her in the purest French, indiihA
the inost' polishe d  Qurtesy.
'No, ruonsieur, I tiankyou, sajidLouisette
raising to his her large dark eyes ; I am bet-
ter now. Awalk will do me good. I shall not
want to ride again.till the nextCarnival I a4e
sure.'
You seem to be very cheerful, mnadamoi-
selle,' he said gazing upon her fine face as she
stood in the door-way of the portale, in the
full light of the swinging lamp.
- She was not more than eighteen, with large,,
glorious eyes, that beamed with light and pas-
sion. Her complexion was a soft olive, reliev-
ed by lips of the rubiest brilliancy, and an ex-
pression more animated and winning is sel-
dom seen. The young man gazed upon her
longer than lie was aware; for suddenly catch-
ing a kindling glance of mingled gratitude
and feelingfrom beneath her half-raised lids,
he colored and turned away, saying abruptly,
Will madamoiselle walk in preference ?'
'It is but a few squares. Ah,' she suddenly
cried out with almost a shriek of delight ;
' there is tuy Louis!' As she spoke she sprung
forward and threw herself into the arms of the
young man whom we have before seen in the
cabaret. - He seemed as happy to meet her as
she to  see him.-  I- -.             - ,
' How ? Did he release you, Louise?' he
asked with earnestness mixed with indignant
feelings.
' No. This noble gentleman, arrested his
horse and rescued me, as I was being carried
past here. Thank him with me, Louis.'.
'I dd, monsieur,' said the young man, with
a frank and manly 'bearing. 'I know not the
picaro who has irisulted her, but if -I ever meet
him he shall have his recompense. Do you
know him, monsieur ?' -
' His name is Valdes,' answered Florence

ETfYMATA                                 m
Noel. He is a ;Spanish residentiofthis city of double rap was inswasted vfrom witiiwby a
greet wealth 'and i nuence."  '  ;,   woman's voice, And a little wikket openedee
'Were ,he the Infants of Spaifihe should  ',Benito and a friend,' an'bwered the'eabaret,
not :escape my vengneenf' siid, Louis in a keeper, as a gray female head ws-thrust half
tone of ,extraordinary determination. ,'You, half ,out to survey them.
nionsie r, willplease .aeccept.again my grat-  The: door, was unbarred and they wete nd-
itude for the preservation ot this young girl! fitted insilence by the wonan ;'who, ei their
' The consciousness that ILhave been;of any entrance, replaced the bar. Without speaking
service toher and to-you, ismy reward,' said to her, Benito led the way aerogsa courtyard,
M. Noel with a smile. '.Will you enter, mon- dark and; ill-paved, towatds. the fiont of, the
djeur with madamoiselleand(take wine ?  convent which stood aboutaeventyfeet from
I see monsieur is-attred for taCe b4'masque, the gate by which they had entered. ' A ligit
I will not detain, you."  -             burned dimly .in-the portale beneath the cor-
Louis then repeated his tharikn which"*ere ridor,-and towards this -Benitop'closely follow-
again repeated by Louisette,. who taking his ed by' Don Rafael, bent hie way, as well as he
arm and returning the bow of Florence Noel could for the obscurity of the place.
with a smile, tripped away., Florence looked
afterthem a moment, and.then turned away
with a smile at himself4 for, beingenchanted
with the, graces ofa little bewitching de.         CHAPTER V.            -
mbiselle, who by her own confession', lived in
a cabaret.                               The Hotel of St' Ibuis--- The Clob  dad
He. then arranged his costume which, his  pauvre 'ask-The Heroins.
efforts in arresting the horse had disarrangedj
and bidding old Roger a pleAsant 6'Bonne  The Hotel St.- Louis, to which' we -hive
nuit,' took his way in the, direction- of the more than once referred in the foiegoing
Salon St. Luis.'  . ,       :           chapters is an edifice of -greht maghificeneC,
Benito Soto waited full tensminutesy and at and' one of-the most beautiful ornaments to
length. began to-grow very.impatient at the theacity of New Orleans, a city distinguished
long delay of the Spaniard,. when the clatter for the grandeur and elegance of its public
of horses feet approached from the direction buildings. It has three fronts on three streets
of the Cathedral. Theycame.neater'and near. -Chartres, St. ,Louis and Royale.  This
er, and the next moment Don Rafael drew noble structure stands on these streets, look-
rein at the spot where 'he was standing en- ing like some stately imperial pahtce:.
veloped in his closak.                  Being intended by its projectors to answer
A rare caballero, senor Valdes and cour- several purposes,it combines the conVeniences
teous,' began Benito in a savage growl, 'to of an Exchange, an hotel, a bank, and suites
make an appointment and--? ,           cf ball rooms with' their ante-rooms.i The
' Peace, hombre!' cried Valdes leaping to principal facade on Rue St. Luis is composed
the ground and -flinging- his rein to his.lac- of the Tuscan and Dorie orders. The front is
quey. '4I pay you for your time, and you have white and has the effect of pure marble.' The
no right to grumble.'                   main entrance of the exchange is formed by
'I have to wait here while you run away on six columns of the Composite Doric ordet,
horseback with my lodgers. You don't know presenting to the eye a portico of'grertbeauty
the mischief you have done, for the madamoi. and stateliness. Through this portico is the
selle has a protector who willnot readily take entrance to the vestibule of the-exchange-a
a wrong even from you, Don Rafael.'     handsome, spacious- hall, which'is converted
'I fear no man,' answered the young Span- into one of the most magnificent cafes'in the
iard haughtily. ; The bonita doncella took my city. - It is a favorite lounge for 'the'French
fancy at the cathedral, and I have tried to find residents, and is crowded from  sunrise till
her since. 'By mere accident I detected' her midnight. Crossing this, the visiter enters
to-night. In tearing off her mask to salute her into one of the most beautiful rot'undas 'in
she struck me with a dagger or I would not America, which is the Bourse, or Exehange
have gone so far. But-enraged I bore her off, proper; being a vast circular chamber sur
and truly, but for that same infernal marplot, rounded by arcades and galleries and always
Florence Noel, I could have had her ere this, open to the public. Its general effect is im-
safe in my harem, which of late has been pressive. By a sideentrance on Rue St. Luis,
without an occupant.                    not far from the portico, near which oufrfiend
'And M. Noel 'rescued her ?'          Jacot, the gendarme was stationed, is a side
'Maldite! yes, and I am to be revenged, entrance conducting to the second story to the
Benito, for this as well as the other matter' suite of ball-rooms' and' their dependencies,
'One at the time, Don Rafael. The horses which occupy the front on this street. The
had better wait here. Are you ready,' -,  grandsalon St. Luis is here a hall truly mag
' Alions,' answered the Spaniard 'impatient. Inificent in size and decorations, with painted
ly.                            .        ceilings, exquisitely designed and -'executed
The maitre du cabaret then strode forward with unsurpassed delicacy of touch.
to the grand gate, which was closed -A within its walls' a Iotel for families, and for

Mfft


EL FIRATA.                 L1

16

EL 119ATA&amp;,

I

this purpose in its style of accommodations,
it isarival of the celebrated Hotel St. Charles.
The entrance to the .rooms appropriated tol
guests is on Rue Royale. It, was after' seven
o'clock on the evening of our story, a few
minutes after the rescue of Louisette and
aboutthe'time that Don Rafael and Bernito
crossed the portal of the old convent on the
secret errand, that a gentleman wrapped in a
cloak and-his face shaded by a low broad, hat
came from the direction of the mansion of
M. Noel and approached the entrance with a
free familiar :step. Before it were drawn up'
two or three carriages of the first citizens who
had doubtless called to meet friends lodging
in the hotel previous to going into the salon.
The black coachmen in gay lveries, a gen-
darme, and one or two negresses in scarlet
head dresses, stood aroundwhile two clowns,
in grotesque masks, in theit midst were amus-
ing them ; for scarcely a group that night was
without one or more buffoons, whoseJets and
broad wit made the streets ring with merri
went.
The jesters .were now aiming their wit at
each other instead of the passers by, as was
their custom. One of them was in all points
attired in the spotted, motley costume of a
boufon du cirque, wearing a ma-k painted
extravagantly and with an expression of most
mirthful grimace The other was a pauvre
diable looking jester, with patched and, rag-
ged habiliments, that looked more like the
forced costume of poverty than a voluntary
assumed.masquerading attire. He had more-
over hat .one sad looking shoe on, the the
other foot being wrapped in a part of a stock-
ing. His knees were bare; and one elbow
sticking out showed. that his upper man was
a stranger to the luxury of linen. His coat
had once, doubtless, rejoiced in two skirts,
but it now had but one, and this held by a
slight tenure. The upper button in front held
its place, and the only one that did so, and
being secured to the opposite button hole by
a piece of green string, kept his throat cover-
ed and supplied ingeniously the want of a
cravat and collar. The coat had once been
blue, and the pantaloons gray ; but it required
nice discrimination to arrive at this certainty,
for a more thorough tatterdemalion never
walked forth. This might have been regarded
as a chef d'ouvre in masquerading costume,
but for the bare knees and foot; which, as the
night was cold and chilly, with a heavy mist,
which the-street lamps would scarcely radi-
ate, seemed too much like necessity to be as-
sumed. Above all he wore an old -mask not
worth three sous. But never a merrier, laugh-
ter exciting mask had flourished at Carnival.
To look at it was to laugh, and to repeat the
look ht  laugh again; and the mirth was
heightened by the extraordinary contrast be..
tween it and the wearer. He had but the
moment before come round the corner where
he had been holding discourse with Jacot, the
gendarme. As he made his appearance in

bouffon was entertaining his little circle of
listeners, the latter stopped short in the midst
of a jest and stared at him in silence. He 'saw
he had a rival of an extraordinary character.
''Bong swor, camarady,' said the ne w-comer
shuffling up among them as well as he could
for his one shoe and stocking. 'How do do.
brother. Dontstop for me ! I never intrude !
Laugh away, and be merry, that's my motto,
Sing to day and cry tomorrow!'
'Is that your own costume, Monsieur Chif-
fan ?  What chiffonier have you for your
tailor?' asked the clown, turning him round
andlsurveying him on all sides. -
'It's my-own, brother! I'm a poor devil,
you see, and have had to keep myself dark
coz I hadn't any thing to wear better than
flowing robes; but they are fashionable in
carnival and so you see I am sporting 'em !
It's a brave thing, brother, to be able to walk
the streets again, and make one's rags a holi-
day suit.'
' Marry, butyou're a queer jester4' said:the
clown, laughing and clapping him on the
shoulder. ' But I don't know, Monsieur Le
Chiffon,* whether you are in earnest or not.
I am in doubt still whether you are really a
mask proper or a pauere diable, which I should
call a mask improper. Allons! give me and
these gentlemen an account of yourself, your
birth, parentage, your name, age, expecta-
tions, and the ,amount of' your worldly pos-
sessions and appurtenances. For, I am king-
jester hereabouts and no rival who shall not
prove himself equal to me, shall have place
on the pave.'
1 I came into the world crying;- my parent-
age I trace quite up to Adams; my name is
Joel Trulock; my age is seven and twenty;
my expectations are that your honorable wor-
ship will invite me to take a glass of noyeau
with you and this honorable company in the
caf# over the way; the amount of my worldly
possessions is this mask, and all my appurte-
nances are these tatters!'
Notwithstanding the lively tone in which
the merry mask rattled off this, in the closing
words his voice fell and there was visible a
slight tremor, as if behind the grimacing vi-
sor, was hid deeper emotion than he would
have exposed to his fellowmen. The emotion
did not escape the notice of the clown. In a
low voice of pity he turned and said to those
around him in Creole French,
' Ai, citoyens, il est un pauvre! un misera
ble. There is-no masking here; no jesting
for me with guenilles like these!'
'Non, non, monsieur!' responded all pres-
ent with a feeling that did credit to the heart
even at such a time of wild license, when
every thing became materiel for jests and
jokes.
' Pauvre garcon!' said, in a feeling tone, a
fat mulatress, with an orange-colored ker-
chief, bound about hser head, dressed in a
flashy blue and red striped silk gown, and
* qivln to M. Ragamuffin.

er.'Young man,' he said in English, 'I have
heard your reply to this mask. Are these
rags real indications of your poverty or are
they assumed for the carnival? As he spoke
he turned so that the light revealed the fea-
tures of Florence Noel, who had but a few
moments before parted near his house from
Louisette and the young buccaneer. The
tone of his voice was serious and betrayed ini-
terest.
'Yes, monsher,' replied the merry looking
mask in the accent of New England.
'Are you truly so destitute that you can
only appear abroad at carnival, because your
rags may pass for a masquerading costume?'
The mask was silent. The clown and the
others stood around Istening. At length he
answered in a tone evidently much moved;
but which there was plainly a strong effort to
conceal under the merry voice of reckless
hilarity which he had assumed to suit his
nask-
'I am truly a poor destitute devil, monsher;
but that is not enough to make a man cry,
while carnival lasts! I have had a three days
holiday and here and there have by favor of
my mask picked up a picayune to keep me
from starving. 'It takes but little money to
keep a man alive, I've tried that.'
'You seem very cheerful for one so poor,'
said Florence. Noel, looking upon the mask
not without a disposition to smile while his
generous bosom bled at the sight of rags, so
wretched that only the disguise of a carnival
would suffer them in the open streets.
'It's a poor creature will give up with his
fortunes, monsher; and 1 find a man can live
longer on jokes than groans  It makes a man
starve sooner to sigh much. I have cracked
many a joke with an empty stomach and it
helped me along as if I had cracked a nut and
-      eat the meat! A laugh helpeth a void stomn-
ach and maketh it quiet an hour long! Ah,
takeslit practice and patience and some philos-
ophy, messieurs, to know how to starve with-
out dying outright !'
This was spoken with recklessness, but
there was discoverable an under-tone of deep

4y."?

a huge boquet of natural flowers in her yel-
low hand, which was glittering with gold
rings;' he is very poor to be a jester!'
.' Mon Dieu! such ragsI and such a mask
grimacing above them, as if laughing at pov-
erty - said another.
I You shall drink with me, Monsieur pauvre
diable !' said the clown! But you shall have
brandy and not noyeau, which will do for wo-
men!'
'Brandy is too strong, monsieur! It gets
into my head.'
S'You shall then have what you will. Al-
Ions!'.
The other was about to follow the clown,
when the person in the cloak, who had ap-
proached the postal of the hotel, and had
paused to listen and -observe this scene, ad-
vanced and touched bimlightly on the should-

feeling and mental suffering in the cadence of
the, last few sentences.
tI could not laugh for the rags that would
bid me weep, mon ami,' said the clown.
' There be no patches in my soul, man. My
spirit hath no rent in it. Inside o'me I am as
good as I ever was '
'Thou art so humorsome, camarade; thy
poverty hath given thee such good nature,
that verily, I envy thee. I would not have
thee rich, thou art so roerry a poor man'!Un-
mask for use, bon camarade, else we will not
believe thee, for thou hast too well fed a
speech to have a starved abdomen.'
' Dost not see my hands, and my elbows ?
Have they not speech too?' he said extend-
ing his bony hand and shrivelled arm!'
',Mon Dieu! Thou art the veriest skeletons
ever walked about,' said the clown, with a
pitying tone mingling with his jest.
' Will you unmask?' asked M. Noel in a
tone of commisseration.
' Not here ! I am a poor outcast, but I have*
a little pride! I should riot have been so free
with my words had I not been under a mask.'
'I am M. Noel-Florence Noel. I reside
on this street, not very far from hence. Here
are two pieces of gold. Take them und feed
and clothe yourself in the nighest magazine.
Tomorrow call on me.'
Florence left the gold in his thin hand and
entered the portal of the hotel. The young
man stood looking after him with both hands
extended as if he would fly towards him to
embrace his feet He then looked at t be coin
and with a wild cry, something hetween a
laugh and a shriek, he started up the R ue Roy-
ale at a speed that surprised those whbo had
seen the weakness of his attenuated per-
son.
&amp; Le Pauvre! Sacre! The mani ii mad
with the gold!' exclaimed the clown  See
how he runs! He has already (list'! ppeared in
the darkness! M. Noel is generous. Vive
M. NoelI!'
This was responded to with animation ; for
all seemed to know young Florenm" Niel.
The group then began to speak in praise of
his generosity and also to talk (it tie mPauvre
diable,' who had been the object of' it, at this
time.
' The poor man never suffers. it M . Flor-
ence can hear of his need,'said a bomrgeoise.
' Such men as he alone should have , \alth,'
said the gendarme. 'I know of mani- : poor
fellow he has relieved from prism.'
' That pauvre he has just aided wil now
have reason to be happy, and he will niot need
a merry mask to conceal a sad couiteianCe,'
answered a Creole woman in a fancifil head-
dress of feathers and ribbons, carr q i"  home
from some magazine du masqnes an -tremnely
rich'bal-costume.
' His fat her I am told allows him as nmeh
money as he chooses,' ' said the e(towni, who
taking off his mask to get air provi i to, he a
very good-looking perruquier oif a neighbor-
ing street. ' He can't live long he is so im-


1$                 "      EL PitATA i

1'

becile, when M. Florence will be the wealthi-
est young man in the city, and his sister
Eine the richest fortune as well as the most
beautiful dame in all the metropolis. Whose
is thit bal-costume you have there, Madame,
carrying so carefully wrapped up? but not so
that we cannot see it is very superb!' he ad-
ded to the mulatto women.
'This is for Madamoiselle Emme. It was,
to be there at half past seven, as she wanted
to be at the bal at eight.'
'What is the masque she will wear, Mad-
ame;' asked one of the gaily attired negresses.
' That I must not tell, Madamoiselle Diane,'
answered the woman,- gravely shaking her
head, and continuing on her way. An arri-
val of a gay party of masquers in an open car-
riage at the door on Rue St. Louis, now at-
tracted and dispersed the group, the clown
resuming his mask and hastening to see them
alilit and to amuse the by-standers by his
jokes and jests upon their several peculiarities
of manner and costume.
Florence Noel took his way up a magnifi-
cent flight of stairs to a grand vestibule from
which several doors led to the suites of rooms
occupied by the guests and families sojourn-
ing at the hotel ; and others conducted to
the hall of the table d'hote, and the salon of
the masquerade on the Rue St. Louis front.
We will go back to a quarter of an hour be-
fore his arrival and precede him to a suit of
noble rooms on the side of Rue Royale to-
wards which, conducted by a servant to an-
nounce him, he was taking his way. The
suite consisted of three rooms; a parlor and
two inner-chambers, one of which was a cabi-
net de toilette. The parlor was furnished in
the most expensive luxury and contained every
article that could gratify taste or add to. com-
fort. Without indivualizing we will mention
broad mirrors in massive frames shining with
gold ; the gorgeousness of the damask- and
purple drapery of the tall windows d deux
battans opening upon the balcony on Rue
Royale; the costly girandoles, the fauteuil, the
ottoman, the oriental velvet covered lounge
of blue crimson, or violet colors, and heavy
with gold and silver fringe; the marble pier
tables with their costly burdens of porcelain
vases; the gilded volumes strewn around;
the fine paintings hanging from the walls;
and the thousand and one elegancies that con-
tribute to the pleasure and luxury of the opu-
lent and educated.
This was a private apartment, and the adja-
cent bed-rooms, one of which opened into the
other, appertained to it. These chambers weie
equally rich in their internal arrangements,
their couches with golden canopies and silk-
wrouight hangings; their alabaster layers and
full length toilet mirrors.
But one of the cressets in the chandelier in
the drawing-room was lighted, and gave just
enough light to give depth and tone, as a paint-
er would express it, to the interior of the noble
room we have described. Within the influ-
ence of this soft light stood a young lady of daz-

zling beauty. in her hand she held a green
vizor, and her costume was that of an Oriental
princess. Her height, the noble contour of her
head, the lofty yet sweet dignity of her air,
singularly harmonized with the imperial mag-
nificence of her apparel. Her hair was a dark
soft auburn- brown, and arrayed with great
simplicity and taste in the most elegant chain
of involved braids, through which was en-
wreathed a band of pearls, which passing with
the whole of the shining hair beneath her
ears, bound it together behind the head very
low in the neck, with a clasp composed of a
single pearl  Her complexion was exceed-
ingly fair, but not too much blonde; a rich
warmth giving to it life and glowing beauty.
She was-about nineteen or perhaps twenty;
but her manner had the repose and self pos-
session of a riper age. Her eyes which were
of the purest hazel, in which played the light
of a bright and cheerful spirit, were possessed
of an expression so soft, yet brilliant, so re-
tiring yet captivating, so daring yet shrink-
ing, so subdued yet so full of feeling, that we
despair of conveying it to the reader. He must
recall the beautiful eyes of his dreams, or re-
vive those of his fonder memories, if he
would form an idea.of the expression of the
beautiful hazel eyes of Georgiana Warfield!
He must also refer to the fairest lips and
brightest smile that he treasures in his heart
of hearts, if he would form something like a
correct idea of her mouth and smile.
Her features were feminine to the last de-
gree, and their faultless regularity and high
finish gave her, with the aid of her tall and
superb figure, an aristocratic look and air too
decidedly marked to be mistaken. Such a
face could be allied to no inferior lineage.
Colonel Warfield her father was a distinguish-
ed Kentuckian, and a lineal descendant of
the proud Earls of Warfield, to which title he
held by descent, and recent death of the late
Earl, a just claim; but he preferred rather to
be a citizen of a free republic than live a noble
in the sceptered empire of his fathers. He
was possessed of great wealth and this daugh-
ter was his only child. She had the year be-
fore accompanied her father to Washington
where he held a seat, and dazzled the capital
by her charms then just unfolding.  This
winter having resigned his political trust into
the hands of his constituents, Colonel War-
field had brought his daughter with him to
the gay metropolis of Louisiana. They had
been here now three months, and during this
period, the beauty of the belle Kentuckian
had fascinated and enchained more than one
noble and worthy young man.
Georgiana Warfield with all her beauty was
a sensible and thinking person. Her mind was
well cultivated, and for her heart nature had
done all that was needful. She was generous,
feeling, and full of high and noble impulses.
She did good unceasingly, and sweet charity
adorned her 'as with a crown of silver.'
She was now standing by a marble table
with the soft light of the girandole made ro-

CHAPTER VI.
The Grisette aud her Mistress-. conversa-
tion in which a discovery is made-The
Two Suitors.
TnE handsome grisette, Ninette, had clasp-
ed the diamond bracelet upon the moulded
arm of the beautiful Kentuckian; the slave
at her feet had laced the elegant silver
wrought boot securely around the fair ancle;
and the toilette of Georgiana Warfield was
complete   Ninette stood off a little distance
and surveyed her with admiration and a sort
of child-like awe.
'Ah, Mademoiselle, you are too much
elegant6 and beautiful!  You will conquer
andbreak hearts and triumph; oh, so great
will you triumph you will have all the gen-
tilhommes kneeling at your feet!  Is not
Mademoiselle Varfield vrai charmante ?' She
added, turning to the middle-aged slave who
had been Georgiana's nurse in infancy and
wap now her kindly treated friend and ser-
vaht. Ninette could not have appealed to
more partial testimony.
'Yis, Missy Marmsell,' answered Clara
with a bright look of patronizing approbation.
'Miss Georgy al'ays is a angel, and now she
look like de queen of de angel.'
'Oh, my good Clara, and Ninette,' said
Miss Warfield laughing, 'you will make me
so vain that I will have to wear something
graver for penance.'
S'Ah, Mademoiselle, you would look angel-
ique in any thing you please to put on. Eut
this violet robe is so becoming to your com.
plexion!  This tunic of silver tissue is so
magnifique! And your jacket of purple and
gold all laced so elegantly with the embroid-
ered'corsage! Never was anything so beau-
tiful, except Mademoiselle's taste itself, which
devised and created such perfect costume.'
'Indeed, Ninette, I must stop your two
little cherry lips, they prattle so!  1 believe
you rattle on only to please yourself that you
can talk a little English. You must not talk
so much!' And the beautiful princess en

seated by reflection from the crimson curtains
of the windows, falling upon her face as it
was cast down in an attitude of pleasant
thought. At her feet kneeled a female slave
engaged in fastening an azure silver-worked
slipper with silken cords about her shapely
foot, and by her side stood a youthful French
femme du toilette fastening a bracelet upon
her ivory arm. She did not, however, seem to
regard them or their presence, but was wholly
lost inher own thoughtswhich were pleasing,
and perhaps tender, to judge from the smile
that slept rather than played about the mouth,
and the soft color that deepened the roseate
beauty of the cheek.

i I

A I

ii

costume smiled and glanced father superb per-
son, through the door, reflected in the dis-
tant mirror of the cabinet do toilette,' from
which she had a few moments before come
forth.'
' Bon, Mademoiselle Varfield,' said Ninette,
merrily. 'I talk English because it sounds
so sweet and musical when you speak it. And
you are very kind to speak it with me. Ah
Mademoiselle,' said Ninette, folding her
hands and sighing. 'I wish M. Florence
could see you now! He would fall down and
adore you!'
Georgiana started, colored deeply and then
said, in a tone of reproof, meant to be severe
but which was very gentle,
'You should not be so-free, Ninette? How
often have I reproved this forwardness.. It Is
not becoming, Ninette!'
' Pardonnez moi, Mademoiselle.' said the
grisette, casting her finely expressive eyes
doucely to the ground, and laying her little
dimpled hands across her bosom.
' You are pardoned, Ninette,' said her mis-
tress, laughing at her deprecating appear-
ance. The countenance of the grisette bright-
ened up at once.
4 Mademoiselle is so kind and good! I
hope Madamoiselle will have a good husband.'
And Ninette sighed.
'Again, Ninette ?'
'Ah, Mademoiselle, pardonnez moiI When
I see you looking so happy and so beautiful,
I sigh to think if you marry that dark-look-
ing Spaniard, Don Rafael, he will, perhaps,
make those fine eyes shed plenty tears, and
that jewelled corsage heave with many a
sigh!'
' Why do you think so, Ninette ?'- asked
Georgiana, struck with her manner, which
was unusually serious, or perhaps, better said
sentimental.
' He is said to be very wicked.  And I
have heard of cruel things he has done.'
'These are only the gossip of porters'
lodges, enfant,' answered her mistress with a
paler cheek, and a graver look. ' Don Rafael
is a gentleman of wealth and family.  His
father was a Grandee of Spain, his mother a
beautiful Louisianian of the last regime, and
related to the family of the President. He is
proud and perhaps^ haughty; but - he is a
noble gentleman, educated and esteemed.'
' Mademoiselle has only seen him here
when he assumed all he wished you to think
him to be,' said Ninette with earnestness in
tone and looks; of his private character he
lets you know nothing. He deceived you to
make you his wife, and then, aie ! Helas! he
will show you himself. Ah, ma chere madan-
ois6LVarfield, if you dont wish to be made
parfatement miserable, do not never marry
that wicked Don Rafael Valdes! I could tell
you more I have heard, madamoiselle,' added
the grisette coloring, hesitating and droppi'
her eyes while she let her fingers insensible
play with the ribbon of her coquettish little

I

'kj''#AAtA.                 '19


EL, PIRATA.

~1 f

cap which was not big enough to cover half
the top of her pretty round head.,
You needn't say any more, Ninette.'
'I hope mnadamoiselle is not offended?'
'No, Ninette.'
6 If madamoiselle would let me?'
' Well, child.'
'9I think that there is none of the gentle.
man that loves madamoiselle, that adores her
so much as Monsieur Florence!'
Miss Warfield dropped her gaze upon the
gorgeous carpet and began to drum upon a
velvet rose in its surface with the toe of her
silver slipper; for she was now seated on an
ottoman near where she had been standing,
while Ninette stood demurely before her a lit-
tle ways off, Clara the slave having returned
into the'cabinet de toilette.
I Madamoiselle is silent. Madamoiselle is
displeased.'
' No, Ninette. Go on. What have you to
say of M. Noel?'
' That he is a noble gentleman, and in
wealth and birth is equal if not superior to
Don Rafael, who though born in New Or-
leans is more of a Spaniard than 'a Creole;
for he has Ittle of the frank and manly bear-
ing of the generous Creole.'
'You have really taken quite a positive dis-
like to Senor Valdes, Ninette. How has he
offended you?'
' He has not offended me only that he should
presume to look to your hand, my noble Ma-
damoiselle!' she replied with zeal.
'You are very good, Ninette to interest
yourself so much In me,' said her mistress
with a bright but transient smile. 'You were
speaking. of M. Florence Noel,' she added
without raising her eyes, and in a tone as if
she would have. recalled the name as she
spoke it It was a faltering cadence. The
voice warmed and fulled an4 trembled in its
enunciation of it. A reader' of the human
heart-the skilful in woman's heart would
have marked this and feared nothing from the
influence of Don Rafael. The name she had
spoken he would discern was the talisman to
lay open the secret passion of her soul. Ninette
had not much experience or reading in human
nature; but she possessed that feminine in-
stinct which is wisdom and judgment. She
saw at a glance that there was no danger to
apprehend from 'the wicked Valdes;' and
her little heart bounded as if it would fly out
of her bosom, snugly confined as it was, un-
der a neatly fitting jaquette of scarlet satin,
with joy at the discovery.
' Ah, 14adamoiselle,' she said, her expres-
live face looking as sunny as a spring morn-
g    'I see I need not speak of M. Florence.
1 am so glad-so happy.'
' Why what does the little vixen mean?'
oried Georgiana blushing in spite of herself
still deeper than before, and with a look of
conscious intelligence giving expression to
her half-drooped countenance.
' I mean, Madamoiselle, that I was very
foolish and very much mistaken. But then

21'

Don Rafael was so particular in his visits!
You rode out with him on horseback; and
he visited you so often--so much oftener
than M. Florence!. and you sang to him and'
'One. may do all this, Ninette, and not
love,' said her mistress smiling.
' Ah, yes, madamoiselle ! But Don Rafael
was rich and so attentive and bold, that I
feared for you! and all the while M.Florence
was loving you with such adoration and con-
suming away with his silent passion.  He
would not call often, and he was always so
respectful, so diffident, so gentle-so different
from Don Rafael, who would laugh aloud
when with you, and go out of the parlor
whistling and drumming the 'devil's tatoo'
on his boot with his riding switch.'
Miss Warfield smiled.. Ninette had good
reason, we must allow, for suspecting an im-
pression had been made upon the heart of her
beautiful mistress by the opulent young Span-
iard. This person's parentage has already
been spoken off. He  was a Creole Spaniard
of an American mother, and had been edu-
cated at Harvard University.  By the death
of his father, shortly after he came to matu-
rity he inherited an immense fortune which
he devoted to his pleasures. He moved in
the best society an acknowledged equal, for,
he kept his vices for his private hours. He,
therefore, possessed two characters for a long
time; one, that of a gay fashionable Creole-
whose time was passed in the rounds of
amusement which wealth can command;
the other that of a low, unprincipled sensual-
ist, and villain-of the worst description. One
class of men knew him alone in one charac-
ter; another class alone in the other  With
the one- he associated as an equal in social
rank; with the other as the mover in schemes
of villainy of which they were the agents or
else victims. He had early met in society the
beautiful Kentuckian, whose name was on
every lip arid the toast of every circle of
young Creoles, and his position in society
gave him a ready access to her presence
and acquaintance. Don Rafael was a man of
an elegant exterior, and he could render him-
self pleasing .to whomsoever he cared to
please. His talents were as varied as his
morals were perverted. The superb style of
beauty of Miss Warfield struck him and ex-
cited his admiration.  He at once became
enamored with her, if a man like him could
love; and having understood that she was
also an heiress, he resolved to leave no effort
untried to win her hand. There was also a
species of eclat in becoming the successful
suitor for a hand for which every young man
of any pretensions was sighing. Bold, con-
fident, and proud, Don Rafael believed he had
only to make the effort to be successful. He
became a constant attendant upon her morn-.
ing levees, always outstay ing others; he rode
with her on the river banks; he waltzed with
her; he promenaded with her; he was ever
her attendant. For a time he forgot his lower
pleasures in the society of one so elevated,

and whose influence was so purifying. What-
ever my have been his primary motives in
paying his cmrt to her, Don Rafael could not
long remain within the light of so much vir-
tue, beauty and grace, without feeling a: deep-
er emotion than the mere passion of the hour,
or only ambition for success! His heart was
taken captive, and his whole being Involved
in one absorbing feeling. Day after day is
passion deepened and strengthened, 'till he
confessed in his heart that his existence and
happiness hung upon her lips.
Georgiana Warfield, at first pleased with
the attentions of a man, elegant in person,
with expressive features, possessed of wealth,
and moving in the front rank of the best so-
ciety, and for whose attentions more than one
beautiful Creole sighed in vain, suffered this
intimacy to continue for several weeks; and
though she did not encourage his addresses,
she suffered them. At length, blinded by her
seeming pleasure in his society, and deceived
by her affability and condescension, he be-
came careless and self-confident, believing he
had only to propose for her band to receive it.
In this delusive opinion he became less cau-
tious in concealing his true moral character,
and in several instances of late had so far for-
gotten himself as to expose to her a heart
startingly corrupt and depraved. This dis-
covery led her to reflection upon his charac-
ter and intentions, and the result was a reso-
jlution, henceforth so to treat Don Rafael as to
show him that she was wholly indifferent to
him, and, however he might think, had no
place in her affections. There was another
motive also which we shall shortly allude- to.
The suitor was not long in 'discovering this
change in her manner ; a sudden change from
a frank friendly intercourse to one of coldness
and reserve.
' How is it Senora ?' he said to her with
something like anger in his tone a few
days before the opening of our atory, rising,
after a brief, embarrassed morning visit, and
standing near her;. ' how is it I find this cold-
ness of manner, and em treated almost with
insult ?'
'I witnessed a piece oferuelty in you yes-
terday, Senor Valdes, that has reversed my
opinion of you,' she said firmly. I
'What? merely riding my horse over a
crippled negro ?' he said laughing carelessly.
' I noticed you spoke to me then of it, but I
did not suppose you felt so much about a
trifle like that ! my horse was most injured,
and this morning he is fairly lamed!t' .'
'You may regard it a trifle to tread down
beneath your horse's hoofs -a miserable, crip-
ple because he does not soon enough remove
himself from your road. But I think very
differently.' I
'Are you serious?' demanded -Don Rafael
with a look of haughty surprise.'
The suiter bit his lip and endeavored to
suppress his displeasure. He laughed again,

but it was a bitter laugh; one of mingled de-
rision and vexation.
'It was this then that made you return to
the city?
'Yes, Senor.'
'And this is the cause of your present'treat-
ment of me?'
4 Not alone, Don Rafael.'
'This is coquetry ! It is affectation !'he said
angrily.
' Sir, you forget yourself, and to whom you
are speaking,' she said drawing herself up
with womanly pride, her eyes 'lighting up
with spirit. Don Rafael's magnet instantly
changed. He saw his fair prize was in dan-
ger of being lost to him. He flung himself
on one knee before her, partly with assumed,
partly'with real emotion, for he loved her
with'deep passion.
At this moment a servant announced,
' M. Florence Noel.
' Admit him,' she said with a look and tone
that was in singular contrast with her words
and air the moment preceding.
A soft, pleasurable glow took the place of
the flush that kindled her ceek, and retreat-
ing from the kneeling Don 'tifael, e 'ad.
vanced a step towards the door to receive the
visitor. Valdes sprung to his feet,,and with
a, dark, scowling brow, and flashing eyes,
stood surveying tne entrance. Thrice before
had le encountered Florence Noel here in his
visits, and even then a *spitit'of rival" feeling
disturbed his bosom. The evident pleasure
with which Miss Warfield now heard' him in-
nounced at once' inflamed his bosom with
jealousy. He resolved to 'wait and see him
enter, watch the meeting of the 'yes, the
tone and manner of her reception i 'to ee if
he could not draw from -them confirmation of
his rising suspicions, that not the'affitir of the
crippled slave, noriany other matter of the
kind she had witnesses, had produced the
change of her manner towards him; a change
he had observed not only this morning, but
had noticed even 'some days before
'1' Ah M. Noel. I am delighted to see you
this morningg' said Miss, Warfield receiving
him with a look of animation; perhaps, 'with
more than, under other circumstances she
would have shown. '1 *as planning a ride &amp;
cheral to the battle-ground, with my father
and was thinking of some friend who would
accompany us. Your 'lovely sister Emme, 1
have no doubt would 'oblige us with her com.
pany; and then we shaU ofcouise have you for
a cavalier!* she added smiling yet blushing.
'Don Rafael Valdes,'doubtless would be hap-
py to be of the party, but he has just informed
me that he has badly lamed his favorite hbse,
through the careless blundering of tin 'old
lame negro who was so foolish as to be in the
street,'and whom 'he run over!'
Don Rafael did not grind his teeth together
at this cutting ii-ony because he was toe cour-
teous; and he did not wish 'to show feeling
either before her or his rival-for such he
now believed the handsome young Creolu

20

],I l

ELI"PIkATA.


RATA.

I

2% ELF!I
who had met with so gracious a reception, to
be. He stood silent and boiling over with
rage and vengeance. Florence had nodded
to him as Georgiana named him,.and he re-
turned the recognition with a haughty bend
of his head.
'No doubt Emme would be delighted with
the excursion,' answered Florence, his heart
throbbing with a sweet trembling pleasure at
the gracious and friendly manner of - one
whom he passionately loved in the depths of
his heart, and whose very foot print, he would
have knelt and reverently kissed. True love
in a generous breast is ever humble. It low-
ers itself and elevates its object. It mani-
fests itself more in silent looks, in deep emo-
tions, than in words. Such was hitherto the
love of Florence Noel, for Miss Warfield.
He had seen her and loved her in silence afar
off. His love placed her too high to be ap-
proached, and he rather shunned than sought
her presence. To obtain a glimpse of her
passing, in her carriage was a rich repast on
which his wrapt senses revelled for hours; to
speak with her-for a few moments was a life-
long bliss! And intimacy had sprung up be-
tween his, scarcely less beautiful, sister Em-
me, to whom we shall soon introduce the
reader, and thus he was oftener thrown into
her society under circumstances favorable to
the growth of a pure passion like his. Each
day he felt that the current of his life was
mingling with hers; that from her idea his
soul was drawing all its happiness!
Too much interested Jin the gay and bril-
liant scenes around her, and given up to the
attention of Don Rafael, Georgiana at first
did not appreciate the character of Florence
Noel. But gradually its development opened
her eyes to his worth, and from indifference
she came to regard him with deep interest.
By this time she began to discover the shades
in the character of Don Rafael, and as each
day disclosed some moral flaw in his heart,
pach day brought to view some noble and
generous trait in that of Florence. To con-
trast the two young men under such. cireum-
stances was irresistable, and it is needless to
say Don Rafael suffered by it. At length
Georgiana discovered that she was by no
means an indifferent student of Florence No-
el's character; that it could not be studied
without being loved. She discovered, also,
what maidens are quick to see, that although
by look nor word had he ever told his pas-
sion, he sincerely.loved her. This discovery
led her to examine her own feelings, and she
confessed to herself with a sweet blush ofcon-
sciousness that if he wooed he should not be
said 'nay.'
Thus affairs 'stood with, the parties up to
the time of the scene we have just gone back
to narrate. Don Rafael stood a moment long-
er when finding himself totally neglected,. he
strode from the room giving, a' good morning'
in a tene of revenge I significance and fling-
ing as he passed him, a haughty glance of
defiance at Florence Noel. This scene took

EL PIRATA.

place we have said a few days before the
time our story opens. Having now explained
the position in which these individuals of our
tale stand to each other we shall now return
to the drawing room again on the carnival
night and to Georgiana and the 'grisette, the
latter of whom was interrupted in her gossip
by a rap at the door, and the entrance of a
servant presenting on a salver, a card on which
Miss. Warfield read with a blushing smile
'M. Florence Noel.'
' Does M. Noel wait?'
' He is in the ante-room, Madamoiselle.'
'I will receive him.'
'Oh, I am so delighted, mademoiselle,'
'cried Ninette clapping her hands.
'At what?'
' That you love M. Florence instead of the
proud and wicked Don Rafael.'
' Hist you little Babillarde!' cried Georg-
iana looking as severely as a half-smile would
suffer her to do, at the grisette, who folding
her hands across her bosom, retired into the
cabinet de toilette though with one dark eye
over her shoulder to see Florence Noel as he
entered.
CHAPTER VII-
The Confession-The beautiful Creole- The
Masquerade.
M. Florence Noel on entering the drawing
room was enveloped in a large cloak and car-
ried in his hand one of those slouched hats
worn abroad by masquers.
'Pardon me, for wearing in my cloak, Ma-
damoiselle Georgine, he said, closing the door
before throwing-it aside. One does not al-
ways care to have his costume exposed to the
eyes of those in the halls.'
' Do not apologise, M. Noel,' said Georgi-
ana, her sweet, rich voice trembling with
emotion which of late on seeing him it had
got a habit ofdoing; an emotion mingled with
an expression of deep silent joy. She gazed
on him as she spoke with admiration. Never
stood a nobler looking person in the presence
of a maiden. Tall and elegant in figure, with
a face of great beauty; an olive complexion,
dark but rich: brown hair and mustache,; a
look of noble pride and an air at once modest
and commanding, the handsome Florence Noel
stood before herin the splendid costume of a
Persian Prince. She surveyed him in silence,
and her heart did homage before 'him.
' You will think me presumptuous,' he said
in a voice a good deal embarrassed, 'but'my
sister informed me that the secret of your cos-
tume you had made known to her, that of a
Per:sian princess. If I have been presumptu-
ous in assuming this, I will atone for it avy
any penance you may inflict.' This 'was

23

"1

'I
L
U
I"

ut

spoken with graceful gallantry mixed with dif-
fidence.
'Your penance shall be to return and bring
your sister Emme,' she said smiling. 'She
was to come here you know and go with me
into the salon under yours and my father s
escort.'
'Emme had not completed her toillete, when
I left; there was some delay in-the arriving
of her costume.  She will drive here in the
carriage immediately on getting ready.'
This was spoken with evident embarras-
ment. His eyes were down-cast, and his fin-
gers played nervously with the golden tassels
of his diamond hilted sword. Miss Warfield
began to feel her heart beat stronger, she
could not tell why, and her eyes also fell to
the carpet. There was for a few seconds an
awkward silence. At length Florence, his face
glowing with the deepest emotion, which
heightened the manly beauty of his dark olive
features, advanced towards her as she stood
beneath the soft light of the burning cresset,
and taking her hand knelt at her feet.
'Pardon- me, my dear Miss Warfield,' he
said in tones that seemed to come from his
soul, and which fell like the nusic of a harp
upon her ears, 'pardon me,for intruding alone
upon you without the company of my sister!
I blessed the delay which could give me a
few moments in advance to see you alone if
possible! Fortune has favored my trembling
hopes! -
He was silent! The hand be had taken lay
passive within his. The diamond studded ves-
ture of the startled, happy, expecting maiden
heaved irregularly!  The eyes .lay couched
beneath their fringed canopies, and met nol
his !
'I feel I am presumptuous!' he continue
in a voice agitated yet persevering. 'But]
have wished for this moment, Georgine,ifyou
will suffer me thus endearingly to call you!
that I might from your own lips learn my des
tiny! I have long and passionately loved'you
and each hour increases my tender interest im
you.   I have adored-I have worshippe
you!   I have dwelt on your slightest accent
and been iade happy by your most transient
g ance of kindness. I have no reason to be
lieve that I am regarded by you with mor
than passing interest; that I am held it
other estimation than you hold the number
ous admirers who surround you and who fee
happy to receivel a look or a smile! I knov
not but that I am held least of all who coia
pose the circle of your friends. Yet I ca:
no longer conceal from you,Miss Warfield, m
deep and passionate attachment to you ! T
confess this I have hastened hither thus early
I have found you alone as I wished, and yo
have been so gracious as to listen to mydarin
and unpardonable language. If I have of
fended-'
' M. Noel,' said Georgiana with, as muc
calmness as her agitation and deep joy woul
permit her to assume ; * I feel honored by thi
confidence arid manly confession. of regar

for one who is conscious of being quite un-
worthy of your noble and generous attach-,
ment. I should be doing myself injustice to
conceal from you the existence of reciprecal'
feelings in my own bosom first awakened by,
the contemplation of your pure and elevated
character, manifested in your filial attach-
ment to an imbecile parent and your affec-
tion-for your sister; feelings, which I am free.
to acknowledge has deepened and strength
ened with a mo-e intimate acquaintance.'
'Is it possible that I am not dreaming1-
Is it possible that my fears are all -t'oncei
scattered like a dark cloud, and that I am
not indifferent to her in whose existence: my"
very being is involved! 'exclaimed the hap-
py Florence with a joyful emotion that seem-
ed too deep for coherent utterance. le press-
ed his lips to her hand with grateful ardour,
and then seizing the other would -have kissed
that also.'
I 'No, no, Florence,' she cried, blushing and
laughing. ' I did not say in my little speech,
I to you that I should give you this permis-
sion.'
Florence was too happy to rebel ; and seats
ing himself by her side he seemed for the
next five minutes quite to forget that he had,
a tongue, and to think that eyes answered all
the purpose for which tongues were given.
F Georgiana might have been quite consumed
by the ardour of his glances, which truth to
say, she sometimes modestly and stealthy
met, if his sister Emma had not entered un-
announced, whereat Florence removed him-
self seven feet distant and began coolly to ad-.
mire the prismatic hues in the drops of the
t girondole, while Georginna With a deep con.
scious confusion mantling her. cheeks, ad
I vanced to receive her friend. Emma Neel.
saw at a glance what sort of a tete a tete. she
had interrupted, and her pleasure beamed in
her countenance.
-   'Do not look so prettily conscious, ma
belle saur,' said she embracing her and look-
ing both delighted and mischievous: 0'and'
d you, Florence, when you have counted the
glass drops in the girandole, might give me'
t your opinion of my costume.  You, Georg.
- me, look magnificently!  I can scarcely re-
e frain from offering you my homage as before
n a sovereign, you look so queenly; and yet it.
is your superb beauty that gives dignity to
l your costume; you borrow nothing from it !-
w 'Oh! you are a sweet flatterer, Emine !
I shall repay you now!   How enchanting
n you look in thatcostume of a Circassian save.
y The gold and scarlet turban so harmonizes
o with the oriental style of your face.  What
! a fine effect the tout ensemble.
u    'Your little feet, Emme,' said Florence,
g ' diminished by the flowing trowsers, look no
f- bigger than mice ! What perfect taste!' ,
'I am delighted you are pleased,' said the
h beautiful Emme, her fine brunette features
d beammng with happiness.
is ' And whose slave are you to he, E'mme?'
d asked Georgime, admiringly gazing upon her.


'i

EL IRATA.

iii
It

EL PIRA

'Your highnesses,' answered Emme, fold--
ing her hands upon her bosom and bending
gracefully low to the ground.
And have you been so kind as to choose
that costume on purpose to support mine and
be nigh me?' asked Georgiana with grateful
warmth.
Yes, my friend! And who should 1 be
near but she whom Florence most loves Oh,
1 am so happy that I know what I know!
He has, I dare say, been asking your pardon
for taking the prince to your princess, and
emboldened by your forgiveness, he has asked
to make you his princess and heart's-queen
for life!  Ah, your tell-tale looks confirm
what I guessed when I cane in!  Well, it
is the happiest event in my life, and I will
answer for Florence that it is in his. Oh,
don't look so very sly and innocent both to-
nether; and you, brother, don't handle that
tiara of pearls on the table so roughly. It is
for you to place on Georgiana's brow not to
wear on your wrist.'
The mauvais honte of the lovers gave way
before the lively and frank manner of the
charming Emne; and laughing, Florence
confessed to her whrt had passed, while Geor-
giana silently confirmed the tale with her eyes
and cheeks. Emume then again embraced her
kissing her with affectionate emotion. Flo-
rence now more at his ease, and with a coun-
tenance beaming with calm, rapturous joy,
then placed the tiara upon the head of Geor-
iana; completing, by the act, the fullness of
her wonderful beauty. Emme forgetful of
hersff was lost in admiration of her enchant-
ing appearance; and when Florence unfolded
from his cloak a crescent of diamonds and
kAelt before Georgiana who placed it upon
his brows, she cried with enthusiasm, as he
rose and stood by her side,
' Heaven has formed you for each other?
such a noble and well matched pair never
stood side by side upon a throne!'
'And such a disinterested admirer never
had price or princess before,' said Georgi.
ana laughing, and gazing upon the lovely and
lively brunette. This maiden was a little un.
dersized,bat shaped with exquisite symmetry.
He'r neck, her arm and hand, her charmingly
sm il feet were faultlessly moulded.  Her
head was of a singularly beautiful shape and
placed upon her neck like a deer's in an atti-
tude spirited and airy. Her complexion like
h 'r brother's was brunette, but of the fairest
and warmest tint of the olive. Her hair was
dark brown of a rich and soft texture, and was
braided and intertwined in tasteful folds on
either temple. The crimson turban she wore
gave to the cheek a glowing tint, that heigh.
tene-d her charms. Her dark pencilled eye.
brows; her small straight beautiful nose; her
finely shaped mouth, deep red lips and pearl.
white teeth; her softly rounded. enchanting-
chmn, with her smile which like summer sun-
light played and danced in and among all,
composed a countenance of rare loveliness.
And those who k-new Emme Noel said that

her heart was as lovely as her face and person-
These two noble characters, Florence and
Emme were the children of M. Noel, a French-
man of noble family, who had in Paris marri-
ed a Lonisiainan lady of great beauty and ac-
complishments; and soon afterwards he set-
tled in New Orleans. Uniting his fortune to
hers, and engaging in commercial business,
he in a few years accumulated vast wealth.
But his happiness was destroyed by the sud-
den death of his wife, the seventh year after
her marriage. He was not, however, left
destitute. His two children Florence and
Emme consoled him for his loss; and all his
time and exertions were henceforth given to
them. Quitting his business and settling up
his affairs he devoted himself personally to
their education. But the loss of his wife,
whom he had tenderly loved preyed upon his
mind; and time, instead ofassuaging his grief
gave strength to his regrets. Florence had
attained his twentieth year when he could not
conceal from himself the painful fact that his
father was gradually losing his mind. This
affliction became more 'and more apparent,
till at length he was incapable ofreasoning or
conducting his affairs; though not yet fifty
years of age. Emme and her brother lament-
ed and wept over this misfortune to one to
whom they were so tenderly devoted; but the
object of their tears was insensible to the
wretchedness his situation produced in the
bosoms of his children.
In this condition M. Noel had been now for
five or six years past, confined to his . dwell-.
ing and giving no signs of intelligence, He
was a confirmed idiot. Yet with a devotion
unceasing and full of filial tenderness and res-
pect his children watched around his couch
or chair, and together attended him in the
carriage whenever the weather was pleasant.
In their hands he was passive and child-like.
This state of M. Noel was not generally known.
With a delicacy that cannot be too highly com-
mended his son had spoken of it to none, save
to *those whose intimacy in his house could
not but give them a sight to know it. The
world still supposed that be managed his own
estate, and that Florence was the dependent
upon his bounty'; but in truth Florence had
long had in his own hands the entire conduct
of his father's affairs.
We shall now precede the three personag-
es of our tale whom we left in the drawing-
room into the Salon, St. Louis, to which, by
passing through the oalls they obtained ac-
cess without descending into the street. On
gaining the vestibule of the grande Salon,
each enveloped in cloaks to conceal their
disguises, and wearing vizors so as effectual-
ly to defy any scrutiny of their features,
they found a scene of life and novelty.
Maskers were constantly arriving and as-
cending the grand stair-case, some in full
costume without cloaks and wearing masks,
others, studiously, especially the ladies, con-
cealing their costu-mes until they reached the
ante-roomn. At the head of the flight of stairs

stood two gendarmes with drawn swords in at
their hands, who directed the guests to the fr
ante-room. - Of these there were several, one.
for gentlemen two for ladies; one for the cloaks ci
and arms, and one which was used as a h
magazine fbr dominos and niasks to supply w
those who needed them, or wished to change a
or disguise their costume. Leaving his cloak v
in the ante-room in charge of a gendarme, p
who also demanded his sword, Florence met ti
Georgiana and his sister at the door of the an- a
te-room, and handing his ticket to a gendarme b
he entered the magnificent hall.The vast t
apartment was already filled with a varied fi
and splendid assembly; and the crash of the
music rose high above the murmur of a thou- (
sand voices. Fifty cotillions were on the floor t
and hundreds who were not dancing were h
promenading around the hall, bowing to, or C
stopping, to converse with those who wearied t
with dancing had sought the rich cushions
of the gilded alcoves which encircled the hall, s
to rest. All was gaiety, life, and splendor.r
A myriad of lights blazed in glittering chan- a
deliers suspended from the exquisitely painted s
ceiling, and diamonds added their lustre to b
the splendor of the scene. There were masks
of every description, from the plain black or 1
orange-colored domino to the regal robes ofr
an Emperor ; from the simple flower girl anda
gypsy to the duchess in diadem. Moorish t
slaves jostled European Kings, and demure (
nuns flirted with ferocious- looking Turkish t
Sultans. Harlequins jested with friars, and
friars promenaded arin in arm with his satan-
ic majesty. There were Cupids .with silver
wings flutting about crying 'hearts to sell,'
and a roguish Hymen enthroned upon an altar
with a burning torch in one hand and a gold-
en chain in the other, proclaiming aloud. his
willingness to bind together all who chose to
kneel at his shrine.I
-On entering this scene Emme fell behind a
step in her character as a slave ; and Geor-
giana leaning on the arm of her noble lover,
with &amp; heart full of happiness. throbbing be-
neath her jewelled vestment, walked up the
thronged hall. The height and manly figure
of Florence, the stately grace of Georgiana
combined with the dazzling splendor of their
costume and the attendant slave, soon drew
many eyes upon them, even in a crowd where
there was so much-to attract attention. Those
before them gave way involuntarily for them
as if before a royal pair, and the whisper and
remark of admiration flew from lip to lip. The
throng opened before them only to close up
behind them after they had passed and follow
in their train. Florence felt that this homage
was 'commanded by the superb beauty 'of
Georgiana alone, and he took- a pride in pass-
ing on and suffering the crowd to yield her
that homage which was her right. The beau-
tiful Emme escaped-not her share of praise;
for such modesty combined with elegance in
her air, such neatness yet r-ichness of costume,
contributed .to make her an object of at-
traction. The three so perfect and appropi-

24 *a

ii f

ly"

ATA.                               25
te in. character! Who could they be ?- b'uzed
'om every mouth.
Florence, proud of the admiration she ex-
ited would lead Georgiana notwithstanding
er remonstrances the whole length of the hall,
here to his surprise, was a sort of throne,
bove which was suspended a canopy of oil-
er. Before he was aware several knights
receded by a herald pressed forward from
he throng as if by one impulse, and the Her-
Id lifting his trumpet to his mouth blew three
lasts which rose far above the loud music of
he orchestra and the sound of the dancers
eet,
' This throne is erected for the King of
Chivalry and the Queen of Beauty! Hitherto
here hath appeared none to claim it. But
ere we hail thee King of Chivalry and thee
Queen of Beauty! Ascend and occupy the
hrone !
Before Georgiana could recover from her
urprise at this simultaneous and impulsive
movement of the masked throng, a knight in
a silver casque had led her to the throne and
eated her upon it and another Kni'ght in*a
black visor had conducted and placed by -her
side the equally surprised Florence. But en-
tering into the spirit of the scene, they both
rose and graciously bowed to those around in
acknowledgment of the honor conferred upon
them, while Emme, in her character of a Cir-
cassian slave, seated herself in a graceful at.
titude upon the footstool with her hands
crossed upon her bosom.
CHAPTER VIII.
The Convent-The Padre-The Conversation
overheard by Louisette recorded-The Con-
spiracy against M. Florence Noel.
WE will now return to Don Rafael and
Benito, the cabaret keeper, whom we left cross-
in the deserted, grass-grown court of the
oil Convent towards the portal which stood
about seventy feet back from the street wall.
its gray stuccoed front, moulded with rust
and age, with its heavy cornices and massive
pilasters reared itself gloomily above their
heads as they came under the arched entrance.
This was open, as if left so night and day, foi
a common passage. In it hung An iron latnp
which shed a dull light around and served to
expose a vestibule from which ascended a
broad flight of stairs, so wide and shallow'that
one on horseback could easily have ascended
them. Opposite the foot of the stairs the head
of which was lost in perfect darkness, we6
two or three, doors and an open passage, the
extremity of which was in darkness. ' he as-
pect of all around was cheerless ; and' the
cold pavement and the damp air of the night
added to its dreary character. Save the pre-
sence of the lamp burning there were no signs


26

EL 'PIRATA.

U;
Ii
I'

EL. PIRATA..

I

of the vast and ruinous mansion being inha-
bited.
'Whither do you conduct me, Benito?' de-
manded the young Spaniard stopping full at
the bottom of the dark stairs, upon which the
cabaretier had placed his foot in the act of as-
cending. 1I must know before I.go further.
This old nunnery may be the resort of ban-
'Do not fear, Senor,' replied Benito with a
tone outwardly respectful, but which conceal-
ed a vein of contempt. 'I told you in my
cabaret that I knew well a good Padre who
could assist you in- your matter and would
cond uct-you to him, where we could talk over
the subject without interruption. . The Padre
dwells in this convent  You mistrust me,
Don Rafael.. But so long as your gold is free-
ly given, I shall be true to you. This and not
friendship binds us together!'
'Together! Do you dare speak of me in this
union   haughtily cried the Spaniard.
This is no place nor time to quarrel about
words, Don Rafael. Will you follow me,
or shall I return to my cabaret ."
' Proceed!' answered the young man in a
brief tone.
The cabaretier mounted the broad stairs to
the second floor of the convent, and entered
upon a vestibule, from which diverged pas-
sages to different parts of the building. The
place where they stood was perfectly dark,
save a faint glimmer that reached it from the
lamp hung below.
h Father Fausto's cell is in this direction, to
the left, senor,' said Benito. 'If you will
take hold of my cloak I will guide you. The
padre rarely has visitors, and does not keep
lights in his passage; and those wro come to
see him can usually find their way in the dark.
The lamp below is lighted by the portiere at
the gate, who has several apartments under
her charge below us on the rez do c/ausee,
let out to persons for various purposes.'
'Then the convent is inhabited ?' said Don
Rafael with more confidence.
'Yes. There are two maitres d'Ecole who
occupy rooms here for their pupils in the day
time. But there is my cloak, cape to hold
by.'
'No. Lead on! Your footsteps will guide
me.
Benito moved on through the impenetrable
darkness for sorne distance, closely followed
by Don Rafael, who occasionally muttered a
deep curse as lie came in contact with the
damp wall, or struck his feet against a loose
tile. After walking a few yards they turned
an angle of the passage and entered another
much narrower, but equally dark. The cab-
aretier walked firmly and confidently on; but
Don Rafael felt his way by the sides and ad-
vanced like a man blind-folded. Benito had
got some paces before him and he heard him
rap twice sharply upon a door, and then after
a moment give a single rap. The door was
instantly opened and the lare of a light issu-
ing forth guided Don Rafae to the cell.-

'Felices . noches, Senor Padre,' said Be-
nito to a tall. thin-man in a long coarse black
gown girdled by a belt of shining black leath-
er about his waist, who had opened the door
to him. 'I have come with a friend to see you
on business. Are you engaged?'
' No, Senor,' answered the Padre in a voice,
of singular depth. 'Enter you and your
friend.'
Don Rafael followed his guide into the cell
when the Padre closed the door and pointed
each of them to a seat on low stools, himself
occupying a carved chair ofvery ancient ap-
pearance that was placed beneath' a little
book-case. On one side of him stood a rude
narrow bed of moes, and on the other a small
round stand on which was a crucifix, a metal
lamp, a rosary, and a missal much finger worn.
On the book which was open lay a pair of
iron rimmed spectacles. There were no oth-
er articles in the room save a monk's broad
hat for the street, and a penetential whip com-
posed ofseven small knotted cords.
Don Rafael seated himself, humble as the
seat was, in silence, and then fixed his eyes
steadily upon the Padre. He was a man
about fifty, with a high, stately looking fore-
head shaded with gray hair. His brows were
sharply arched and severe, and his dark gray
eyes were penetrating and stern. His nose
was high bridged and Roman, and his mouth
thin and expressive of a character proud and
avaricious. It wore, as if habitually, a covert
smile lurking in its sharp corners--a- smile
dangerous and treacherous. His complexion
was sallow, his eyes sunken beneath his
brows like dark pools beneath gloomy arch-
es; and he was without a beard The sin-
ister and cunning expression of his mouth
could not, however, destroy a certain air of in-
telligence and education which his counte-
nance manifested.
it is a chilly evening abroad, senor,' he
said speaking in the Castillian tongue and ad-
dressing Dan Rafael whom he saw closely en.
gaged scanning his countenance, and whose
attention he seemed desirous of averting; 'I
am sorry I have no fire to offer you.'
' It is of no consequence, senor Padre,' ans-
wered Valdes ; 'the air of your chamber is
agreeable, though something close.' Don Ra.
iael than glanced at Benito impatiently, as if
desirous he should make known to the father
his business. Benito, however was too devout-
ly engaged to heed the sign. He had no
sooner taken off his cloak and Sombrero than
he fell on his knees before the crucifix and tak-
ing up the Rosary began crossing himself and
telling the beads with most commendable zeal
muttering all the while prayers, which seem-
ed to ibsue from the great mouth in his enor-
mous head, as if from a cavern. The light of
the lamp shed a strong 1 ght upon his 'gigan--
tic forehead and strong features; and gave
him a look at once hideous and .awe-inspiring.
Don Rafael watched him with imuriosity. A fter
he had ceased he rose and kuelt by the Padre's
knee :                       .      .

W7

' Your blessing, Santo Padrep' powerful friends  I. should be. suspected'
' Benedicite, hijo mio,' answered the Padre But let me hear!
laying his hand upon his head. Benito then '1 am. passionately enamoured with the
recently kissed his hand and rose to his feet; beautiful daughter of a distinguished Ken-
'This is Don Rafael Valdes, Senor Padre,' tuckian now passing the winter in the city,
he said in a tone at once free and familiar, and who lives at the Hotel St. Louis. I had
strikingly contrasting his previos humiliation, reason to believe m attentions were flattering
'He has a matter in hand on whih he would to her, an d that-I  ould find the possession
fain consult you.'                       of her hand an easy acquisition.. I was about
' 1 have heard of the Senor Valdes,'answer- to propose myself, confident of acceptance,
ed the Padre fixing his penetrating gaze on and was deciding when I should do so when
the face of the young man, and the sinister 1 discovered a change in her manner towards
smile at the corners of his mouth just percep- me-and a few days since she openly insulted
tibly deepening. 'I am at the service of the me, when I asked her the.cause of it.  With
senor.'                                  great art she feigned to attribute it to disptea,
Before proceeding to record the conversa- sure at so trifling a matter as .my. riding bver
tion that here followed, we must first return a negro ! and perhaps, Benito,'- added Don
to the cabaret and to the little room where Rafeal with a-vindictive flashing of the eye,
Don Rafael, had his interview with Benito and speaking through his closedd teeth, '1
Soto, which was overheard by the quadroone should have been. fool enough to believe it,
Louisette. It will be remembered that the for I was about to kneel to her and ask her
door was left purposely ajar by Benito to en-. forgiveness-for I have said I passionately
able him to overhear the entrance of any one; love her-when this M. Florence Noel' was
but that Louisette entered unheard and be- announced. Sunlight does-not -flash sooner
came an unseen and unsuspected party to the through an opening in an April cloud than
interview. We-now report what she heard.  smiles chased the angry shadows from her
'My object in calling at your cabaret, Senor face when she heard hit .name. She left me
Benito,' said Don Rafael, is to get you to aid and advanced to meet him with the warmest
me, after your manner in getting rid of a rival.' welcome ! I stood by-watched her eyes-her
' Who is he, Don Rafaiel? It will depend color-her tone ! I marked his too-and, in--
something on the person who has incurred fernal fiends ! I saw that she loved him! that
your hostility. In that last affair of the assas- he was my successful rival I in a word, I knew
sination of the brother or the handsome Creole that for him I had been scorned !'
Jaqueline in the Faubourg Treme, whom you  Benito Soto emitted a:low. chuckling sound
concealed in your house, he had too many like inward laughter.
friends and it made such a noise. I had the  'Do you mock me?' demanded Don Rafael
greatest difficulty in escaping, not suspicion furiously.
only, but arrest. I was at one time in such  4 NoSenor  I always smile when I hear
danger I should have betrayed you but 'for  'o          lways    wmi     You did
the fifty onzas of gold ou sent me. It was a of man being cajoled by a woman  Y  id
dangerous business. lf the man you want not have a mirror sent you, though! if you
put out of the way is of no consequence and had you would haVe known how to avemnethe
you pay well I am willing to serve you. If insult-that is had nature made you a mnter
he is well-shaped and noble looking 1 would as Iam.
serve you with more zeal: for I have a natu- The expression on Benito's features wa so
ral feud, with all men made in God's upright terrific that Don Rafael involuntirly subdued
image. I am deformed and accursed, and I his own fierce aspect, as he continued,$
fling down the gauntlet of defiance and hatred  'She conversed with him as ifIhdnot
to the race upon which I am like a foul ex- been in the room ; but she did not forget a
crescence upon a fair peach. If it is a woman second time to insult me, how matters nt!II
you would deceive nd destroy, I give you quit her burning with rage- Sin e then M
my hand in that sweet work. They scorn me Noel has been much in her presence; and
and I avenge myself by laughing at their yesterday they rode together accompanied by
ruin !'                                  his sister. I have been night and day planing
The deformed cabaretier had worked himself e venge and success ! I love her yet se scornk
up into a phrenzy as he spoke and rising he me. For this I would possess both to putish
paced to an-1 fro with sharp, quick steps, his her and to reward my passion. I have A r~
short spindle legs scarcely appearing sufficient that she shall be my wife. But first this rival
to sustain his enormous head.' Don Rafael. Florence Noel must be disposed of! I hvie
suffered himn to compose himself 'again, and thoughtofecallit him out, but there has yet
set down, when he said,                  been no quarrel I have thought of openly
'The person I allude to is a man of wealth insulting nim in a care! but I should then be
and influence, Senor Soto. He is the son of admitting to all his victory and my defeat Ia
the wealthy M. Noel of Rue Ro ale.'      this affair of the heart. I know of' no wat
The cabaretier shook his head:         but to assassinate him.'
' It will never do, Don Rafael.'       ' 'You come to the point cooly, Don, Rafiael.'
' You shall be well paid, Benito.'       ' Between us, there needs no disguise. Yous
'There is too great risk. M. Noel has now know my business with you.. I depend

I

N4

.44'
ii
Ii

I'

0


28

EL PIRATA.

on you, Benito, to see that I am served in this
matter."
The cabaret-keeper was for a few moments
silent and thoughtful. Don Rafael watched
his face closely. Louisette, at her listening
post in her room, trembled with fear and hor-
ror!
It is a grave affair, Dor Rafael. Besides
I know M. Noel, senior, though I have not
seen him on account of his -illnes for some
years. I bought of him the handsome mu.
latress slave Teresa who is my housekeeper,
and whom you saw in the cabaret to-night.
Hermother was a noble-looking quadroone,
almost white- and a, perfect devil for Malice.
M. Noel gave her up to the police as he sus-
peeted her, it is said of having poisoned his
wife who die4 suddenly. Yes, I well remem-
ber M. Noel. His son I have not seen?'
'He is one of the handsomest men in the
City.,'
'Maldito''
'His death would make wretched a beauti-
ful woman-nay two-for he has a sister of
great attractions.'
'Bien dicho!' cried Benito; 'you give good
arguments tome. Whatsumin old will ou
pay me for this business?'  g        y
Five hundred pesos in. gold down ; and as
many more when you have accomplished it.'
When do you wish me to undertake it?'
Thiasvery niglit.'
It is soon.'
The time is favorable. There is to be held
in the grande salon of the Hotel St. Louis,
as you know, a masquerade -of a brilliant des-
cription.  I have satisfactorily ascertained
from various squroes that M. Noel is to be
there. His costume I am ignorant of. But I
caught a glimpse of his vesture when he res-
cued the quadroone I was taking home with
me on horseback, his loak falling aside,, and
I saw an emerald sparkling on a golden breast
plate!. By this I should recognise him!'
And what use could I make of it?
You must take a mask and domino and
proceed with me to the bal masque. You see
my costume is that of an Italian cavalier.
You can keep me in sight in the Salon and
I will point out to you the emerald breast-
plate. eTh  ewels he wears, if you do your
work secretly and well, will be your own.
This is an argument toyour cupidity, worthy
Bebito Vy
ia.tstrong one.! But I know not how
I s4uld man ige this according to. your plan,
Sengr. In the first place,   Noel will be
surroundomdt with friends and could not be
touched in the Salo. In dthe second place I
am' so accursed in shape that no mask or
domino could conceal my person! I should
stil be known to all asBenito the Deformed!
I should be "watched-nay the genedarmes
would recognize me and forbid entrancec'
This was spoken freely yet in a biter trane.
h      'Yo~u are rih. It would compromise. me
to be seen wit you,' answered Don Rafael
with a look of intense disappointment.

'Cannot you lie in wait for him. Cannotyou
fall upon' him in the street!'
Benito made no reply. He sat with his
head supported on his hand in deep reflec-
tion. He seemed to have got possession of
a new view of the subject which he was at-
tentively considering. Don Rafael sat in si-
lence regarding him with eager expression
upon his countenance. At length the cab-
aretier spoke in a low, impressive voice;
'You say all your desire is to remove your
rival M. Florence Noel?',
' All. So that I may be the only suiter,
and win the object of my passion; who will
then without donbt, be true to me ! While he
is living I have no hope of success.'
You mean while she regards him with
tenderness?'
'It is the same thing.'
Not quite. For she may be brought to
scorn him.'
'How?' he demanded eagerly.
'Would that be as effectual, Don Ra-
fael? Truth is I have repugnance to blood-
shedding of late. It costs me a good deal in
penance and confession,'and I begin to feel
pious inclinations as I get older. If I ani a
monster on earth I dont mean also to be a dev-
il in hell! Perhaps we can get rid of this M.
Noel without the knife.
'In what manner? The stiletto is always
safest, Senor del Carbaret.'
' You care little about blood, Don Rafael,
so your own fingers dont get the stain upon
them. But it is one thing to pay the gold,
and another to drive the steel!'
hIt is your trade,' answered Don . Rafael
haughtily.
'Do you sayIthat word to me. Senor
Valdes?' demanded Benito fiercely. '1 am
as well born as thou? my trade ! It is my hu-
mor-!'
'Be it thy humor then to serve this M. No-
el as I wish. Else I must find some other
palm foi my gold onzas.
I again ask you, Don Rafael,' he said im-
pressively, tif by any mea s this maiden be
brought to scorn thy rival! nay, if 'he him-t
self be so degraded and so disgraced that
you yourself, and all men may scorn and
trample on him? If hecan be so dishonored
as to fly the face of the society in which he
now mingles, will this result answer your
wishes? or must you have his life?'
'No. If you can do this that you mention,
let him live! I would rather see him degrad-
ed, so as to be ignominiously cast off by her,
than behold him lying dead at my feet.' You
have touched theright cord, Benito! But I fear
me, you will not make the sweet music out
of it you seem to promise inec'
I' Listen, Don Rafael,' said the carbaretier
m a tone of singular exultation and confi-
dence. 'I will riake melody that will charm
you; and you wilever aftersay Benito Soto,
though lie -hath a head like an elephant hiath
a voice like anightingale.'

I ~ V

J F LIRALA.
CHAPTER IX.                  But as he had no trade besides that of a priest
he remained a priest still. Not being received
nto regular communion with the church here,
he set up on his own responsibility, finding a
Th Interview in the Cabaret between Don Ra- parish amon the refuse Mexicans and Span-
fael and the Cabaratier continued.-The se- iards of the Levee whom he sought out, till
cret and the gold-The cell of Padre Fausto padre Fausto's private confessional was bet-
-The6Conspiraey unfolded.               ter known than that of any other Spanish
priest in the city. He was a liberal confessor
THE quadroon, Louisette, in her anxiety to and forgave the worst of crimes, and sold in-
listen to what should follow-for itis needless dulgences for gold in hand.'
to say she had been deeply interested in their  ' hose who came to him must have been
conversation-drew aside the curtain hanging grossly ignorant. His confessional pardon
across the partlyaopentdoor, and thrust her could not beovalid, not being in the church.'
fitee into the apartment so as to get a good  ' A priest once, a priest forever, Don Rafa-
view of both the conspirators. Fortunately, el. No excommunication can undo what -has
Benito's back was turned towards her; and been done por Dios! I believe father Faust-
the Spaniard was so deeply interested to learn o's blessing and pardon to be as valid as that
-what the Cabaretier had to communicate that of any padre of them all. I have often had
he did not take his eyes from his countenance. both from him and paid him well.
'Ah,' said Louisette to herself, 'I shall hear  'Go on with your subject. What of this
all, you wicked plotters, and I shall defeat priest?'
all! M. Noel shall not come to harm if I can  'He has a cell or quarto in the old convent
help it!'                                 where he teaches Spanish, translates, and
'This is what I propose, Don Rafael,' said hears confessions. The padre having in his
Benito. I have told you that my slave Tere- own hands the power of pardon-and indul-
sa was the daughter of a handsome quadroon gence, acts as a man should who can fling his
whom   M. Noel senior, owned.   She was slipper at the devil's head! . There is nothing
nurse to both his children; but, it is said, he will not do for a friend. He does'nt wait
having a strong attachment for her master, to go to the bible to see if it is right or wrong;
who at that time is said to have been a very but says promptly how much plata down do
handsome man, she poisoned, or was accused you think the affair worth to you! He is a
of poisoning Madame Noel. For this M. No- padre in a thousand, Don Rafael.'
el surrendered her to the Police. She .was  'I should think so,' answered Valdes, dri-
tried. but acquitted for want of testimony.- ly. 'But pray what hath this holy and con-
She now resides on Rue St. Felepe near Dau- sciencious priest to do with the woman Lu-
phin, and has set up une maison a l'amour, crece, and what has she to do with my plan
where she lives in a sort of rude magnifi- of revenge and success?'
cence. I recollect that I have heard~ this                  Don Rafael. This padre
woman say often when her garrulity and van-- FThou shalt heat, e  afaet one tide
ity were excited, that Teresa, my mulatress' Fausto hath told me thathe was at one tihe
was the daughter of M. Noel; which isa a confessor to the wife of M. Noel, while he
plainly false; for as the girl is darker than was a priest in Havana, where M. Noel, weho
her mother, her father must at least have been had a branch of his commercial housethere,
a half-blood. Do not be impatient, senor! was passing a few monthon e ccotnt of her
you will see what I am coining at in a mo- health. I don't know how lie came to name it,
ment. This woman has a deep-seated hostil. save that -  yes, Iremember how it was.-
ity against M. Noel, and doubtless to the chil- The quadroone, Lucrece, was present, and
dren of Madame Noel. She is unprincipled; she wa    ting ow, No    el,    he a
she is avaricious; and she possesses sagacity, the observation. Now, Don Rafael, I have I
intelignce  nd unnng i noordiaryde.plan that, between the padre and Lucre'ce, I
gree!' think will be perfectly successful in bringing
re.    u    a--yin about your end and the infamy of M. Florence
the countenance of the Spaniard, as if to see Ne;wih fi a      ednyuwl        a
how far he was comprehended. But Don it is much better than the knife.'
Rafael's face betrayed no signs of havinpg-ta-  &amp;I do not see how it can be effected.'
ken his idea.e                             You are not so clear of apprehension to.
ken   dohnoty  dis .                   night, Senor Valdes, as usual. It can be ef-
' You do riot yet divine my purpose.   fected with ease, Don Rafael. But you must
'6ot   will not lon be ignorant. Listen.- be willing to pay well. There will be three
I know this woman well. Her name is Lu. of us to share it instead of one!
crece. She often comes here to see her daugh-  I'I will part with fifty oninas*.
ere  e  a      re frieeds.'       ug       t is not enough.  I shall take  fifty  for
'er.Weare.                           portion, Don Rafael,' answered Bnito.I
'Well. There is a certain padre here in you add fifty to this-for the Padre and Lu-
the city who was once a priest of influence in-
Havana. ,On account of some crime he was *An onza, or ounce, is something less than sev-
forced to flee the Island and he came hithei-. enteen dollars.


EL PIKATA.

F

HT

crece will want twenty-five apiece-i will di.
vulge my plan.'
' Be it so,' answered Valdes in no pleasant
hunor.
'Have you the fifty onzas of gold with you,
Don Rafael  asked Benito, extending his
thin shrivelled hand.'
' Do you take me for a voiturier, senor de
cabaret, that I muet carry such a sack of coin
with me?'         '~
' Excuse me, Senor! But, as you came
here on this especial matter, I concluded you
came provided.'
'I have but a few pesos about me.'
'I cannot divulge my plan for your success
and M. Florence Noel's ruin without the fifty
onzas in hand,' answered Benito firmly.
'Hombre maldito!' cried Valdes, rising up
and stamping, with his foot. 'Do you excite
my hopes to mock them?'
' No, Senor! This is an affair of money-a
business matter altogether. For the same
amount of money I would let M. Noel change
places with you, and plot with him against
you.'
'You are a finished malechero, Benito!'
exclaimed Valdes with angry vehemence.
' Worda move me not. Return to your ca-
sa, Don Rafael, if it please you, and bring me
the money and I will then reveal my secret.'
Valdes saw that Benito was firm; and after
biting his lips witn vexation, he said-
'If you deceive me at last, you shall not
escape my resentment. I go for the gold,
and will return in half an hour. I have to
revisit my house to dress for the masquerade.'
'Then I shall expect you and will be ready
for you. Perhaps you might as well return
in a carriage, as we shall have some distance
to go to the priest's.. I do not fear your re-
sentment. I shall succeed!'
'If you do, Benito, I shall willingly add ten
to the fifty onzas.'a
The cabaretier then let Don Rafael out of
the porte de la Rue, and securing it after him,
soon after re-entered his cabaret, as we have
already seen ; while Louisette shook her pret-
ty little head and rubbed her neat round ears,
and said with a sigh,
'Ah, what a nice secret I have missed hear-
ing, just because that evil-minded Spaniard
had'nt fifty gold onzas about him. I would
rather have given it than lost the secret.-
But I'll keep watch in the cabaret for his re-
turn, and then see what I can discover.-
With this to look after, and my Louis to keep
an eye on, who is going to-night to the mas-
querade on purpose to see some lovely girl
he fell in love with, I have enough to do.-
Ah, Louis! you dont know while you are in
the cabaret drinking wine with your friends,
that I have slipped out and got a gendarme to
secure me a ticket, and that I shall be there
too! I inust know who this pretty Creole is,
who is tempting you to run away from me to-
night, to the bal masque ! You don't know
that good Teresa here told me all about it ;
and how she heard it from her gossip, whose

mistress keeps the magazine de coutume,
where he went in and saw this pretty lady
selecting her dress, and put so many ques-
tions after she went out about her !-earned
how she was going to the masquerade in the
costume of a Circassian slave, and then or-
dered of the marc/and, the husband of the
marchande de coutume, who had a magazine
above stairs, the magnificent costume of a
Georgian prince! Ah, he does not know I
know it all so nicely! I shall be avenged
on him, the truant and false Louis!'
With this resolution Louisette followed
after Benito into the cabaret. The reader
will recollect that when Don Rafael returned
to the cabaret he came on horseback accom-
panied by his servant dressed in all points
like himself as an Italian cavalier; and that
atter speaking with Benito and assuring him
that his servant had the gold on the saddle,
lie had torn off Louisette's mask, who was
watching him with the secretintention of fol-
lowing him and Benito, and lifting her upon
his horse had borne her off.,
Before entering the convent gate with Be-
nito, on his arrival there after Louisette's res-
cue, he took the bag of gold from his servant
and silently placed it in the hands of the cab-
aretier, who, satisfied with its weight, preced-
ed him, as we have seen, into the convent,
and to the cell of the padre Fausto, where
we will once more resume our narrative.
The preceding digressive retrospection has
given the reader some idea of the character of
the priest Fausto, within whose presence Don
Rafael now found himself.
' I have heard of Don Rafael Valdes,' said
the padre, when Benito had named him; 'I
am at the service of the senor.'
' How you can be of service to me senor Pa-
dre, is more than I can tell,' answered Don
Rafael with haughty impatience; 'for I am
quite ignorant of the object for which Benito
Soto has seen fit to brlnz me hither!'
'You shall not be anj longer left in igno-
rance, Don Rafael,1 said Aenito.  A  few
words will explain to the father your position,
and then we can see how to arrange matters.'
Benito then briefly, and without the least
disguise or concealment, made the priest ac-
quainted with the state of affairs touching the
passion of Don Rafael and the rivalship of
Florence Noel, and his desire to have, him
quietly put out of the way, that he might be
the sole object of the lady's favor. Don Ra-
fael stood by listening with ,impatience, and
to do himcredit, not without a sense of shame
aud degradation, at this recapitulation by a
third party, of his own infamous and secret
designs. However, in his breast vengeance
was stronger than any other feeling. When
Benito had ended, the priest remained in the
same attitude in which he had been giving his
attention; his elbow restipig on an arm ol the
chair, and the point of his fore-finger support-
ing his chin. Both observed his countenance
closely. At length he spoke, his features ex-
pressive of a sinister pleasure:

'And you declined assassinating, Senor'
Soto,'he remarked in a doubtful tone.
Yes, Senor Padre. I have had enough of
blood,' answered the Carbaratier in a peni-
tential voice.
'And therefore you have come to me! !Do
you think I am  an assassin, hombre?' de-
manded the priest sternly.
"No, Senor Padre! I have come to see you
to avoid bloodshed. I have a plan in my
head.'
'Your head hath capacity to hold a great
many plans, Don Benito,' said the priest, his
features relaxing into a smile.
Benito smiled ; but his eyes also flashed fire.
He, however, was silent; while the Padre, as
if to mollify him; said,
'1 meant no offence, good Benito. I did
but have reference to your great wisdom and
sagacity. What is this plan?'
'When Don Rafael made known his af-
fair to me in the cabaret, a thought struck
me! The young woman Teresa, my house-
keeper, was once a slave of M. Noel the sen-
ior, of whom I purchased her. Her mother
was M. Noel's nurse for his two children,
and she was after the death of his wife, Mad.
ame Noel, surrendered by him to the PoliE
on suspicion of having poisoned her mistress
She was acquitted and afterwards came ofter
to my cabaret to see her daughter; and a
such times, I recollected, having heard he
boast that her daughter Teresa was the chili
of M. Noel.',
'It is not probable,' said the Padre wh
had listened with attention. 'M. Noel is
fair man, and your Teresa is a bright malat
ress.'
'I did not, nor do I believe it, Senor  Pa
dre. But out of this hen's egg I have hatch
ed a young serpent. It bethought me, a
Don Rafael was opening his affair to me
that all he wanted was to get M. Florence
his rival, out of the way; and that so it wer
done, it would be the same to him whether
were 4one with steel or cunning ! This h
acknowledged, when I asked him if he woul
be content with the infamy of his rival.'
'And how we're you to effect this, wise Be
nito ?' asked the priest.
'1 got my hint from Lucrece, the qua
roone mother's boast about Teresa being th
daughter of M. Noel.'
*-I dont see what connection there is here
said father Fausto.  .
'Nor, by the mass! do I,' exclaimed Do
Rafael strongly.
Benito smiled triumphantly, and then pr
ceeded in a tone of hellish exultation lookir
at each as he spoke ;_
'I said to myself in my thoughts, though
Teresa may not be the daughter of M. Noe
FLORENCE NOEL may be the son of Lueree
the quadroone!'
For a few seconds a strange silence su
ceeded the development of' this bold anda
tounding idea of the Deformed !The prie
looked at him with an expression of amaze

31 l

Ii

ment and admiration at a piece of devilish in-
vention so infinitely transcending an  thing
-he, himself, with all his subtlety could frame.
Don Rafael gazed upon the speaker with a
bewildered and vacant look, as if something
vast and startling had been suggested, the
breadth and extent of which his mind had
not yet fully cokoprehended. A moment he
remained so; and then all at once the full
force of Benito's meaning flashed upon his
mind.' He sprung forward and struck his
hand into the palm of the Cabaretier, and
cried.
' Thou hast a master-spirit, good Benito
Thou shalt have thy fifty onzas made a hun-
dred, and the priest have his twenty five,
doubled, if thou succeed in carrying out this
scheme. 'Twas forrhed in hell and conceived
by Lucifer! Brave Benito, thou hast a rare
brain.'
'Did I not tell thee that my egg would hatch
a serpent.'
S '.It is a serpent that will strangle this Flo-
rence Noel if thou canst bring him within its
r folds,' said Valdes, his eyes flashing with ma-
licious triumph, as he paced with quick,
- short steps up and down the cell. 'But how
e wilt thou carry out thy plot.'
. Even so, good Benito! how wilt thou
n make this serpent bite!' asked the priest.
t   ' My plan, as you have divined, is to endea-
r vor to prove M. Florence the son of the quad-
d roone Lucrece.'
' A difficult matter to prove, Benito,' said
o the Padre shaking his head, doubtfully.
a ' Not with thy wit to help mine, good father,'
answered the cabaretier confidently' Don
Rafael hath pledged me one hundred onzas and
- yourself, fifty, if this thing succeeds. For
- this sum, which is not found under every
s loose stone, you will no doubt do your best.'
,    ' Let me first hear your project.'
, 'It is this. Lucrece must be brought into
e the secret, for without her we can do nothing.
it For the liberal sum Don Rafael has named
e for her part she will do whatever you may re-
d quire her to do, father. She must be made to
take oath that M. Florence is her child, and
- that-
' But there is a daughter also,' said the
d- priest interrupting him.
ie  'Then say that both are hers-this will be
stronger still' That Madame Noel was child-
,' les, and that these two children were-born of
her, and adopted and openly owned by Mad-
in ame, against her will, at M. Noels command!
That this forced maternity to two children
o- which were not her own, with her sense of
ig degradation at sharing the affections of her
husband conjointly with his slave, and all the
rh peculiarities of her position prayed iso upibu
l, her mind as to undermine her health and ul-
e, timately produced an affection of the heart by
which she suddenly died. That M. Noel
c- 'then wishing to get rid of the real mother of
sO- his children and prevent her from ever laying
st claim to them when they should grow up and
e enter society, under the pretence that sh had

1)  1 -  I '  #.,  -  55  1 1 1
'Ili PIRATA.


,p9msone#~am4ine Noe.,urrendered herthe
tn al4 aXq t  ion Wul forever ,reove ,ai
wtps ofth egrae lieage o 1el c1ldren,
to-whq   e ias detiU aathed,,dA ihom
Je   she4to inherit hasname and fortirne?'
pyone moment good and worthy Dion
n to,' said the -adre, laying hihand ligt-
Iyoon hisshudder; I must. examine koth,
i   -ifeet,-.1 by the staff of St.-Barnabas, 1
incline4- to beieve that one of them is,
Uenito smiled with relish at this praise, and
the high testimony borne, to his sagaciy and
then proceeded to detail tfie whole scherre he
had conceived  It was, that Lucrece being
: 41y instructed that yery night in her part,
s would proceed early jn the morning to the
roper court ofjustee and demanda process
or getting possession of her children unlaw-
to the particulars she had been instructed in
For proof she was to refer the court to padre
Fausto, who, on being rcmanded to appear
hboethe Judge, waes to ma  .oath that while
was officiatang priest in  avana, in good
eating, hp wap sent for secretly by a lady
who as residing at a Quinta just outside of
the walls,.beyond thq Prado, whom. the mes-
senger aid-was dying,,AndXho wished, to
confess. That he too' down her omifession,
Wich dwas 'tht she lad   e    y sionnd
an:d deceived thiworld    acknowledging the
f tWo children which she h;tdwith her, then of
a tend      clledflorence and
to be te fru  of her own body; that so far
riheing her own, they were the childe' of
roone: narped Lucrece, wiihlad passed
.,e~r,_aurse only; but that in obedience to
Ili ,stem ,coruand of ier husband , e hadt
H ospzted to this deception; on which account
she trustedshe should receive. on earth abso.
lutins,d pardon of Heaven hereafter-'-
Such is the outline ofthe conspiracy form-'
against Florence Noel, and the lovely up-
offending Emane, his sister;apnd forming at
the verythmoment- they were, receiving gip-
'thrned he omag of he  asked thfong a_-
semled around them in the Salon St. Louis.
TotMIl this plan of the Deformed, the padre
Fausto had given his full consent; Don Rafia
el first_ pnuenting to make his portion of the
remuner        so one hundred onzas. To
this              yelled without demur;
for the triU ph he was about to obtain over
hia riva1i ade, in comparison with; it, gold of'J
no value in, his -eyes.
The three conspirators then left the cellto-
gether, and separated outside of the convent
gate; Don Rafael to  '  i  hoe anvents
ten to theouontis horse and has-.
ten to themasquerade; Benito to return to his
house of the quadroone Lucrece.swytote

IRATA.
CHAPTElL X.
The Heir and Bequest -The Middy and Duella
-Te T/hree-masted &amp;ekner.- The Free
.Flaga ,
WE will now return to ,Loise'te,: who, it
will be remembered, after her rectle by Flo-
rence from the hands of Valdes, we left on
her return towards the cabaret with Louis, who
had early made his appearance, and received
her from her respqer with many expressions
of ranly gratitude. With thiq young ,man,
we have not yet made the,.reader fullyou-
quainted. We have described Ahim as ab-ld,
handsome dissipated person, with flowing
brown locks, a fine clear eye, and an expres-
sion full of a generous frankness and open,
daring., .His person was a little undersized
but compactly knit together,:and Lhis costume
that of a sailor, with pretensions to nautical
foppery;- manifested ini his numerous finger
rings; his laced ruffles and worked linen; his
showy and, costly roach, and gold chains
flashing across his breast. - The knife which
had lai'bepide him on the table in thecabaret
was now, as lie walked by the aideof Lousi
ette, sheathed in a red silk sash that was worn
about his Waist after ,the fashion of Spanish
sailpra,, though his language and.features were
those of a' Boston-boy,ias ,such he was. He
belonged to a distinguished family, in: the
vicinity of Boston whose name is identified
With that of the earlier colonial history,, and
which gained now lustre in the war of the
revolution. His father was a wealthy ,land-
proprietPr,,. nd- Lois whom  we'-will call
Louis Wildbirdv or ,.il1 Pirata' by -which naie
he was-better known, being a lover of plea-
sure,, pursued her with such zeal that his
father after advancing several large sums to
free him.from difficulties ito which his reck-
less follies hadplaced-him, disgraced him, by
closing his door against him. , Louis wient to
sea, and made avoyagre to India,. On his return
his father-met hin and, restored him to favor.
But the youag lni's habits had not been na-
terially improved, by,'year's'life before the
mast; and, his father indulging him, in some
atonement for his pastseverity, lie soon began
a career of fashionable and expensive luxury
that brought upon him the .paternal reproof
and a threat to disinherit him. But Louis
laughed at. -he menace, and -trusting to- his
father's clemency and knowing his wealth he,
like manyoth.er heirs of rich men, expended
money as freely as'tver. At length his father
was taken sick and Louis hastened to his bed-
side ; forwith all-his thoughtless exttiavagance
and gaiety of career, he was attached to hin-.
He only .differed with hinm .in opinion, as he
said ; ' his father wishing to keep- his fortune
for him to spend after his death;- he, himself,
preferringg to use it before !'a it Was this slight
difference of opinion that rhade all, the diffi-
culty between the father and hist son. Louis

EI~PlAEK'A-

I
1
t:.

found hiin quite ill; and watched by his bed-
side with, filial tenderness until hefdied.- He.I
was now master of his fortune! This was his
first thought after he had shed a due number
'of tears. T he will wasatleagt opened, and
it'read as follows:
'Whereas, my son Louis,' has  en fitto
anticipate his fortune while in his minority,
and by the manner in which ho has expended
nearly the sum of fifty thousand dollars with-
in the last three years, hasshown me how he
is likely to dispose of the residue of my es-
tate 1 herewith',bequelath all my property-real
and personal, goods,'chattels- and appurtenan-
ces to me belonging, save a certain box with
a blue cover and addressed to Louis Wildbird,
to be found in my secretary,' to. the --
Hospital for its own proper use forever.'
Louis was confounded as well he might be;
and for a few moments remained a statue of
silent astonishment and horror. - The old gen
tleman.hadT'airly avenged himself!
'Perhaps it would be as well to examine
the blue box,' said th'e attorney who had read
the Will.
With. a faint hope that it might contain some-
thing to cancel this terrible sentence, .for he
could not believe that his father. could have
been-serious,he flew to' the secretary.' The-
blue box was there, and -addressed to him in
his fathers hand-writing;' which being hold
and firm showed that it had been written be
fore he was taken ill. The key was - inthe
lock. He. turned it with a trembling hand
and lifted the lid. It contained four parcels
nicely done up in brown-paper and superscrib-
ed to himself.
lie opened one-the smallest. Its contents
were apair of dice! He dropped them with
a misgiving that something worse would fol-
low!
He opened the second parcel.' It contained
pair of spurs!
Quietlyher put them with the .dice and tore
open the third package. 11, contained a hal-
-ter'
Giving utterance to a deep execration he
dashed the box, upon: the floor. The fourth
parcel fell at his feet! 'He tOok it up, as it was
in the shape of letter.  He tore t open and
read as follows:
ra'My Son,
I am satisfied' that to leave you my fortune
would be your ruin. I have therefore dispos-
ed of it to a charitable purpose. You have in
this bux the means to choose two paths---one
of which you have long'pursued and which I
have figured by the pair of dice, 'I have be-
queathed to you. Should you be disposed to
continue in it, the dice will he of service to,
you ;-and I have added a pair of-spurs as useful
adjuncts to oie riding to the devil; and as you
may like to see the end of your road I have not
neglec ted to leave you a halter !. On the other
hand if you -are desirous of redeeming the
past and adopting a course of honorable life,
I enclose you a midlshipman's' warrant, which
I have succeeded in obtaining for you. Tihe

path of life i1 therefore pen to you . One
leas deto honor the other to the galloys hosee
which you !li walking, ny son, and Iorp-
mt you to the care of him  ho only can make
gqoo' come out, f'evl!
.The disenherited yog man's emotion of
rage and grief we will not describe i. t
Lquis'Wildbird was'naturally of too budylt
a tedmpr toa.be e        yhaned  He re-
covered from the blow, n4 after due delibr-
ation, carefully put up! his 'ree bequests, and
in a few days after. is, others death' wnt
on to Washington and .reported himl .He
entered the navy, and soon became eskilf'ul in
his duties;. but the nature of the disgraceful
bequests of his father by some means atenth
reached his associates; arnd after he had b een
two years in the service, the fact was thrown
up to him by .oie of the jupiot' lieutenants
with whom he had. quarreled ,Louis chal-
lenged him, and they fought outside' of the
town of Mahon where theirifrigate was sta-
tioned. At the thirdS9re touis .'ot' his "p-
ponent. His disgradefll 'inheritance'had l-
ready spread tIroughoutthe ship; and though
he might. have bedn willing to return and
meet the consequpne!s of his duel he was not
willing to go back where his infamy was on
every tongue. . H e,: 'herefore, wrote ,a pplite
note tp his comsaprjg officer tendering his
resignation. -Instead of being accepted, a
sentence of dis raceful dismission from the
navy was passe upon him. Reckless and out
of employment, Louis, who had escape  infm
Mahon to Gibraltar in a Spanish coaster after
the fatal duel, associated hiuseif with aptr, y
of desperate men who had laid a pla
ing possession of a Mexican ship rich i*,4
whiqlhlay at anco up themynt ef
the ~ore. Most of these men were' pa'1
sailors though there, wereone or twolrendh-
men and an Englishman among them, Tfior-
oughly acquainted with the Spanish language
Louis attached himself to these men, wo
were twenty in number, and with thembhoard-
ed the ship, drove the crew into the water,
and robbed ,her of a large amount of specie
and gold and silver in ingots. They escaped
to the shore .in.the ship's koatsiayi  'ard-
ed her by means of a raft, and div  Ahir
booty at their rendezvous in one of the hu ts
that infest the Sneutral ground.'
Several of the robbers werearrested'; but
Louis escaped by means of a British' vessel in
which with two of his accomplices he shipped
and sailed for New Orleans. Here, instead
of expending his' gold in diesipation, fav-
ing formeda romantic idea f beig master of
his own craft on the sea, he looked about him
for a light vessel that would answer his pur-
pose. He. succeeded in falling in with a
handsome three. magted schooner Vof about
eighty tons burden, which lad recently r-
rived from Cuba withacargo of 'fruit. 'Te
amount of specie possessed by him and lii
two friends, was fourteen thousand' dollars.
They purchased the polaccal for eight thou-
sand, and expended two thousand more in se-

1


34                 RA.

Lid

'retly fitting 'hei for sea, with a suitable
parliament; viz: six tweli. pound' carron
des and'a long Tom' twenty-four amidships.
They then set t wotk to get a crew,' which
in such a port, they found very little trd6uble
doig. Louiship'pehdiis men ostensibly
im the Mexicans agairist Texas, and his
cre w were principal' Spaniards ;- though he
had men of other nations, who were as in-
different for what end they were* shipped as
Louis could desire. It was during this search
after a crew that he fell in with the hand-.
some Quadroone Louisette. He was return-
ing one night to his lodgmns which were
lien, ats now, with Bienito, whom he had taken
intohis confidence and who was of great as-
sistance in getting him proper men, when as he
was passing up Rue Toulouse he was assault-
ed fromnbehind and felled insensible upon the
pavement. When he recovered his conscious-
ness he found that be was lying upon a couch
inr a handsome apartment'and in attendance'
'pon.ht.hm was a young' girl of remarkable
beauty.
must not move, Monsieur,' she said
with a smile of pleasure on seeing him sen-
sible. ' Lay still and sleep'now that you are
better and I will watch by you!'
It was with great difficulty Louis could
convince her that he wasentirely restored, and
elt no further efects from the bow he had
received, thena head, ache.- When she was
satisfied of this she began to put up to heaven
a hundred ejaculations of gratitude, and look-
ed so beautiful and bewithing that Louis
could not resist the impulse to catch her in
his arms and warmly kiss her red lips. She
escaped from him laughing; and then told
him how she had heard him groan as she was
shutting her door, and went to him and see-
ing that he was hurt had made her negro
woman help her bring him in. Louis then
looked round and saw a black female with a
red and yellow handkerchief bound on her
head seated on a cricket at the foot of the
couch. 'So we brought you in and laid you
on the couch, and did every thimg for you to
bring you to, because Ikhnew you, though
you did not know mc!' she said withnaiveth.
S  aowdid you know me'r he asked admir-
ing her.
hHavn't you passed by here every day,
VMonsieur, three, four times a day on your
way t your schooner, and Benito's cabaret?'
 Then you do know something of med?' he
said laughing, be
MoOh yes, monsieur! When I saw you pass
the fIrst time I took a pleasure i remember-
ing your face, and when you came by again
and again, I put on my mantilla and followed
and iquired, ad so you see I found you out !
And when I saw that it was you who was
hurt I felt so sorry, and had you at once
brought into the house; and now you are bat-
ter I am not sorry anylonger, but happy that
weh e become acquainted.'
a   simple candor of her speech and the
n   wousess of the young girl, who not-

II
i1
II

withstanding her beauty and the brightness of
her complekion, Louis knew t'o be a quadroon,
deepened the impression her charms had made
upon him. :In a word, he had been robbed of
his purse of gold outside of the house, and: he
was robbed of his hmrt on the inside. "The
first robber fled ath, 'escaped; but to this he
felt he (vould willingly sutrender himself. On
inquiring he learned that she-was just-seven-
teen, was, heart-free, and lived with a sister
who was a marchande de boucles and had her'
shop up stairs.
Louis returned to his. lonely apartment in
the cabaret, but every day he called in to pay
Madamoiselle Louisette a -visit; and finally
by means of i treaty made with her sister, the
marchande of curls, he transferred the pretty
quadroon from Rue Toulouse to his own
quarters. A few days afterwards Louis sailed
from port taking the' happy Louisette with
him. He 'cleared for Vera Ciuz in ' ballast,
having his guns in the hold. His crew con-
sisted of forty two men, most of them young
men; and a more bold and daring company
were never assembled on the deck of a vessel
under the burthen of a hundred tons. On
reaching the Balise and getting an offing,
Louis run up for the Breton Isles and there
anchoring in  secluded inlet, mounted his
carronades and long gun, and then mounting
himself upon the top of his twenty four
pounder, made the following speech to his
men:
' My lads, I have shipped you for a cruise.
Some of you no doubt think you are going to
fight the Texans. But you are very much
mistaken. I wouldn't lift a finger against the
little Republic. All of you who are of the
same mind give three cheers for the Lone
Star and take your time from me!'
About two thirds of his men joined him
with a w'll. Those who did not were Mexi-
cans; and they looked dark and frowning.
'The truth ,is, my lads,' he continued in the
same frank, smiling way in which he had be-
gan, 'I have a flag of.my own, which I ship-
ped you to sail, under; as nice a piece of
buntingas you would liketo see flying above
a quarter deck. Louisette, ma belle, hand
me that flag you have been working forme!'
The smiling Louisette who had no will nor
wish that was not identified with his, who 'in
her 'heart' she said was her true husband,
brought from the cabin and handed to him a
roll of bunting. Louis received from his first
officer, (one of his old Gibraltar friends) the
ensign halyards and skilfully bent on the flag,
yet unrolled. He then stood with the halb
yards in his hand and continued.
'Here my lads is my own flag which in a
moment 1 shall display aloft! If you dont
like it say so; and he 'who objects to sailing
under it is at libertynto go on shore, where
these fishermen will give him passage to the
Bahize pilot station. ;But those who will sail
with me shall have good; cheer, rich prizes,
and plenty to do.- Nown stand by my lads to
give it three cheers!'  '

Thus speaking he ,un up the ball of bunt-
ing'to,the mastihad. 'As, it struck the trck
it unfQlded and spread broaAly out to the
breeze, displaying to the eyes of those on
depki a pair of dice,', a' pair of spurs,' and 'a'
halter,' worked ona scarlet gogound.,
'_There lads is m  lag; mhy father'ibeqhest!
The escutcheon hblas transmitted to his son!
In a word, born to aflueaep, my father disin-
herited me because I lived too fast. He died
leaving me in his will this pair of dice, these
spurs to ride to the devil with, and this halter
to help me on my way !' .As he spoke he
displayed the articles to their eyes. .He gave
nae these to make my fortune with. I obey
him. .. There they fly emblazoned at the mast-
head and under them, I mean to acquire that
wealth of which he has unjustly robbed me'!
Now my lads, you know mne! Will you sail
with me? Let the answer je three cheers to
m   y lag'
The union of boldness, recklessness, and
good feeling in his manner, his fine frank face
which vice had not yet debased, the ingenu-
s recital of his brief history,had upon his
audience a wonderful effect,. As if by one
impulse every man but two joined in a full
swelling uzza; three for the lag,! three again
for the captain! three again! for Louisette !'
The two had refused to cheer were Ameri-
can seamen, who had no idea of compromis-
ing themselves in a free cruise. Louis after
thanking his men called these two to him, and
after questioning theta about their objections,
gave them five guineas a piece and setthem
ashore at a fisherman's hut, where it was
easy to reach the main,.
'Tell your .Captain,' said one of the tars as
the boft which landed them was putting off,
'that if we ev er su  e a free flag, we
would choose him for our captain; for he is a
true sailor and has his heart in the right place
-and he isn't perhaps so much to blame either
for hoisting for a flag all his old father left him.
Wish himfrom us a long road and merry one
before the halter brings him up!'
The men promised to do so, ankd faithfully
performed it on getting on board. Louis
smiled. He, however, did not feel that. hei
could fully assent to their moral views. He
was as conscious ais any one need be that the
nature of his father's bequest proved no ex-
cuse for his present position. But he had be-
come recklssand indifferent to consequences.
Moral feeling had been blunted in his days of
profligate eperditure, and feeling that infa-
my had followed his name, and that the life
of a fellow-being lay at his hand, he felt that
his only resource was in a life .of action and
daring achievements. He seemed to have a
sort of superstitious feeling that he would
yet come to the gallows, and be hung with the
very halter his father had bequeathed to him!
A hundred times, with this idea, he had taken
it to destroy it; but some secret feeling of de-
fiance of the worst witheld his hand. Having
put the men on shore, and go ready to sail,
he with this feeling of reckless defiance bound

S#

I

the halter about his waist. Within hi, scarlpt
sash, and fastsning his spurs nppa,,hisaeels
took the dice and said t,Louisette-
,Throw with r e, and the result depids
which way I steer. Ifyou getthe, highestin
three casts I take the Mexican coast down;
if I get the liighest I run for Cuba!'
The men looked on with interest gathered
around the capstanon which, hey threw the
dice. Lous got the highest.
'Put her away, before the wia4 for the la.-
vana!' he cried to the man at the helm.-
Thus do I weave ry destiny with my. fath-
er' accursedsequests!t.l.
Like some snow white bird of triple wing,
the light and elegant three masted schooner
went flying over the waves in the direction of
Cuba, and long before sundown, she was o1st
beneath the arching line of the blue horizon.
CHAPTER XLI.
The Wing and' Wing and the Capture--TAe
. fasquerade-The Gendarme and tieickef-
TE subsequent career of,' F Pir-ata de ILas
Espuelas;' orthe, Pirate of the Spurs,, as the
young Captain of theThree Mased Bohooper
was designated by the Mexicans, auql El
Pirata of the Riigolets, as he was knowaP in
Louisiana, from his well-known rendezypes
at a Pass so called ern Lake Borgne, we shall
but briefly allude to., He swept the gulffrom
Vera Cruz,t St Antonio, and his snae be-
came as notorious as his power and skill was
feared. , He, had been sailing under lis fee
flag of the halter but two months,, capturing
and plundering many vessels pn, the, waters
between tke.Tortugases and Cuba, plundering
them, but in no instance taking lfe, when it
became necessary to send an araped, vessel in
pursuit. With ,consummate prudence aid
seamanship united at the same time, withithe
utmost boldness and audacity, Louis evaded
the brig of war that.had been .sent to capture
him. But so persevering was his pursuer that
finally he left the waters of, uba, altogether,
and run for the Mediterranean., In this,sea
he pursued his former free ,profession, unfil
the 'Pirate of the spurs,' became the terror
of the Mediterranean seamen. After ayars
absence, and having successfully evaded q#1
attempts to capture him, and learning, that
the brig had long before been withdrawn ram
her pursuit of him, he set sailagaina for ' e
Gulf, with the intention of visiting New Qp.
leans to gratify Lonisette to whom he was
both aitached and faithful, and who accom-
parnied him in all his .cruises,, JIfit assage
was propitious, and ibe fourid himaseIf obl%
more in the waters qf the exican, sea. In
stead of making the tf alise t ie ran into La e
I6orgne, and anchored near the ruined fortif.
cations at the entrance, of the pass called the
laigolets. Here leaving his vessel be angle
his way through 'the ,Rigolet to: thefsI

IB.ATA.


36  fIRAA.

I I
12
ii
I"!
lilt
~I!I
Ijj
K

Pontchartrain,and so by the shores ofthe lake
to4 bayou that conducted hm withiri a league'
of the city in the -tear.
The solitary situation -of the Rigolet, its'
contiguity to New Orleans which a boat could'
itach in a few hours, by the'lake' passes and,
bayous, and its vicinity to the Gulf into which
they could run at 'any time, rendered thief
place, I the young pirate's -eyes, a suitable
rendezvous. He therefore decided on mak-
ing, it suclf'tintil he should be driven nt of
it. After remaining a few days in the city
he-returned to his schooner to which he had
given the name of 'The White Wing,' though
she was best known by the expressive title of
*Et Pirata.' This rendezvous he held for
some weeks,'oecasionally cruising out of the
lake and running down as fat-as Cuba on the1
East, and as low as Vera ,Oruz on the West.
He boarded and plundered several. vessels,
from one of which bound from New Orleans
to Europe he took a large quantity of-specie.,
The ship instead of pursuing her voyage put
back to the Balise, and the captain proceeding
to the city made known hi0 loss. The public
feeling was at once roused, and a brig of war
then lying in the stream, was instantlydes-
patched in pursuit of the bold pirate ; whileI
a party -in -boats took the inland passes for the,
purpose efguprising hird at the Rigolets should
e have put in to his rendezvous; for that this
place was the rendezous of a suspicious vessel
news had already reached the city. But there
was so many hiding places for, smugglers in
the waters about New Orleans and so many
suspicious vessels frequented them, the rumor
created very little attention. But the recent
piraciesinthe Gulf'of whih- rumor brought
information, and the story- of the 'captain at
onde inspired men- with the determination to
"'ttempt'he capture ofthe daring rover. The
desoriptiorr given of him by the captain of the'
plundered vessel, was close -enough to iden-
'tify hin with the pirate who had been in the
saie waters a year before, and 'El Pirata,'
was on every tongue.
_The description of the, pirate captain, and
thi idea -thers entertained ofhim, by no means
answered' that given by us of Louis.'
He was described by the captain as a man
wihh long, flowing black locks, a ferocious
mustache and enormous whiskers and eye-
brows, and with spurs 'on his heels; while
Louib we have represented as a young man,
with soft brown hair, a fresh rqddy counte-
natice and without beard or mustache. But
Louis had one costume for the deck of hia ves-
sel when he prepared to board a prize and an-
other face fbr the shore; and t wo persons could
flot be inore opposite in appearance than-him-
selt in the ;abiret of Benito Soto and the fierce
'looking bucamier, whoin he appeared to the
eyes of his captives. -t was to tiis-precau-
tion that he'6Wed the impunity with which we
have se~en him' appear in the streets of New
Oirlekus. The party wich went down by the
in~$d' Passes to attack his rendezvous found
itdserted.- The ruins of the fort bore every

trace of having been recently occupied, and
the ashes-of fires still remained, with frag-
ments of spars, old canvas, rusty bolts, and
other refuse of vessels.
The White Wing had-flown! She had put in
there that morning aud  nchored beneath'the
wallsof the fort; but Louis had twenty spies
who lived in'the 'city; one of whom Nicole
Roque the bojador, whom we 'hzve al-eaaiy
seen; hearing of the'intended expedition, took
his pirogue and crossing the river'sailed for a
bayou which conducted to'the lake 'by an ar-
tificial canal. He reached the 'Rigolets in
aboit nine'hours, and informed Louis of the
contemplated attack. 'In half an hour- after-
%vards the White Wing was flying down the
Lake, and when the hostile prt  arrived she
was discovered by one who climbed to the top
of the ruin, looking like a snowy gull nestling
under the horizon. But the brig was destined
to be more spccessful than the land party. The
morning following as the three masted schoon-
er was slowly movin   before a faur knot
westerly breeze through a low fog bank, and
steering south by west, along the Chandeleur
Isles, ouis who-was standing near the helm,
suddenly beheld the royals and then the -top-
gallant-dals of a large brig looming up bright-
ly into the sunlight-above the bank of mist.
She w as standing N. N. East. His 'vessel
from herpeculiar rig, and being with her
masts lower in the water had not - yet- been
seen from the brig. At a glance he saw by
her yards that she was a vessel of war. Quick-
er than thought he sprung to the helm and 'put
his vessel away. Like an arrow she darted
into the bank of dense fog to leeward and the
royals of the brig disappeared in the distance.
The brig 'the moment after crossed the foam-
ing and boiling wake of the schooner, and the
captain seeing the agitation knew that a ves.-
sel had just 'crossed 'his' track into the fog.
He instantly gave orders to put th'e 'helm up
and square away the yards;j and the next mo-
'ment the brig, which proved' to be a man-of-
war sent after the White Wing was following
in the wake.
Louis confident of having eluded the yes-
sel kept steadily on, and thanking the fog
'which had befriended~him. In about half an
hour he hauled his windanmd drew up along
the land. The brig in the meanwhile had not
seen the chase, and was only guided by the
ripple of her wake. Diut just as Louis altered
his course, the wind lifted 'the fog, and to his
surprise he saw the brig brewing up her yards
not a huridred fathomns astern' and standing
for him. In a few minutes the fog' bank
broke away, the sun shone upon the -sea, and
both vessels wcre, visible to one aryother.-
The brig threw a shot over thepirate,. and
Louis saw at once that his little clipper was
the object of her attention. He ran up his
"free flag,' returned the fire fom his 24 pound-
er, and then huged his craft' to the wind so
as to g  aet h weatther gage ofhis antagonist,
and be between him 'and the land. But we
have no room to desciihe the hoct engagement

ii

46

ETIRATA4'
that followed. tThe meeting, of the White 1' 'Ah, abon gendarme,' she said, it is ,ight
Wing with the U. S. brig *-Creole' is already o'clock. Have,-youmy ticket?' .
known to have resulted in.the capture of the  Jacot recognised- the musical voice, and
little vessel after a long and warmly contest- laying his hand on his, heart bowed-and qaid
ed battle; and itis known thatLouis escaped, ina tone of regreta-    '
with Louisette andhis surviving men top the ' 'Pardon, Maden9iselle. I ,have not yek
islands; and from thencefound his way to been relieved, from ,guard. . t seems but .,a
the-city even before the brig had brought ,up uoomentsince; you were here! Butijne 1ies
her prize.. This capture took place a feiv.days madampiselle, when beauty is the thxne U
before the young pirate of the .spurs, i# intro- our thoughts!' -
duced to the reader in Benito's cabgret: in  'Monsieur is complimentary' said Lowi-
close conversation with Paul the seaman who sette making him a courtesy.' 'Here vomes,
had been punished with ' the cat.' and with the relief!" You will in a few minutes be e0
Roque the bojador, touching the recapture of liberty l' :
his vessel.          -    ,'No madamoiselle,' said Jacot sighing,'-L
Having brought this episode of the career shall never be at liberty)more I'.
of Louis, the ' Pirate of the Spurs,' to a ter-  'You are ,a very gallant gendarme and '
mination, we willnow follow -him and Loui-  What she Was about to say furtherwas in.
sette to their apartment id, the cabaret after terrupted by the tramp of a body of-gensd-
her rescue from 'Don'.Rafael. On reaching 'it armes, who came up and dropped one of their
and entering the door Louis said, taking het number at theippost while Jacot fell into their
ittle hand in'his-a                     rear.
Now, ma bonne Lisette, I Iust leave'yod! 'Ahi monsieur, you will not disappoint me,
1 have a bengeLesettt whichwilee yote -whispered Louisette as he passed hpr ia his,
I have an engagfemenit which will' koeepine march by to the~guard-lnusev
out quite late. You will need sleep after your   b  , he  adeosee
frigt; o g  in  hd  otobedmmtyou 1,l will be .here, mgdemoiqelle,- in te,4 milir.
fright; so go in hand goito bed,-m  chere !' utes again,' he replied ; and marched on, dise
He then kissed her hand- with d      ,gay airn  peering around the corner. While sh'was
Aigboa! Lrt'ireedouis,'cried. Lo   awaiting his return, and ve;ingherself a*the
monsieurr                     idea how much; time Louis had to see ind
peeping after him through the blind and lift- make love to his inamorata the Circassioa
ing her fore finger with playful seriousness, slave, two horsemen rode up.  . .
'You think you have so nicely alecgiv ne me! ; One of them .dismounted andtrpwing Mo
Bien !' ,I will let you go false Louis, but 1 rein to the other, advanced towards thergendt*
will watch you!t, I know you are going to be anrxei while the mounted- horseman galloped
truant to me. My eyes are no longer so soft away with both horses. 'IThis grangerwas
to your gaze as they were, perhaps you think, attired in 'an elegant costume of hlack velvet,
and you tire of my beauty! But so longs I the collar and cuffs studded with, diamonds.
love yeu, mon Louis, Iwill not let you love le  lso wore a half mask. As soon as Louir
another! Go, but I shall go too , "    settlee saw,him she uttered .a  excaationf
Thus speaking she. cast her mantilla over mingled *nger and fear, and shrunk behind ta
her head and locking the door, ahe hastened cabriolet near. It was the costume'softhe
along Rue Royale afier him. He was walking cavalier wohad ore her of; ,in a word ho
forward at a quick step, and she came'up with Spaniard, Don Rafael, who had just. before
him, though not on the same side of the street parted ,from the padre and Benito at t.befon
with himself just as he' entered a magazine de vent gate, and,. new disptch4,hia servant
coutume, which was brilliantly lighted 'and in home with his,,horses withpsr4ersto return
and out of which masqueraders were contin- andsfollowhim into the masqere .
ually passing. .                           When Don Rafael saw thsfagW ofW e gend-
I will watch' here till he: comes out,' 'she ar-me and found that it waaanothetbanJacot,
said, standing within the shadow of an arched he muttered neqrse,-aPd thenoAskedabrUtly,
passage that.led to a. court in the rear., After  'How leng have you been on. post.?'
waiting full a quarter of an hour siesaw him . Not three mnutesppnsieur,
come-forth.in a black domino and mask. 'She  ,Ah, wels,' said Valdes to himself, 'he :ill
knew hire ly his height aid step; for what be herein a few piorppests;  willamuse .My,
disguise cannot jealousy and lovepenetrate! self with ,watching %he, street .peakers,,  I
'   wears this domino to, conceal his bril- mnit see him iaP4 let hinekw he. iui *t
liant costume fromnthe passers by,' she said- as wapte4. cNay,* car. leave wod,,withi4
she kepthis, in sight, I am now, satisfied gendarme.
all Teresa tpld me is quitetrue.. Iut 'I will 'Monsieur, I had some. service I wished to
watch and see him enter the salon !,    employ a gendarme upon, and )4oke to your
- To the bet masque .Louis, directed his stens comrade who was here before you. He will
and-she spw hime disappear within theaportals probably be here to wait for me. Tell him
' Bpn!: It ia nowr my. turn'~she said with that he is not needed.'
playful smils yet,a grave cadence to hsr tones; ' Bien, monsieur,' answered "the, man re-
and turning from. the, portal she approached spectfully ; and greatly to the relief of Lout-
ther arme, Jerome JTaoot, whom the reader sette, - Don Rafaiel passed into the door lead-
alread. knows~                          ing up to the salon.


EL PIfATA.

'Louisette 'did not have to waitlong. - Jaco
soon reappeared, when the genddrme gave
hhithe'message'leftwith hiin
'Then am I a lubky' man--4 have 'my gold
and have no risk to run as I feared,' he said
t&amp; himself. &amp;What dan'have male this liberal
cavalier thange:his intentions.- Bon! lie has,
his'way andfI have my pay! I have heard
better poetry'but nOt better rhyme. Ah, ma
belle, are you there!' he said as Louisette ap-
proached. '"Now I will see what r can do for
ybo ! I must do something to night for all my
good luck, or I deserve to be hung for an idle
vagabond at the next lamp chain! You want,
a ticket for the bil masque?'
'Oui, Monsieur 'Gendarme!'
' Youwant me to obtain it for you-?'
 If you please, Monsieur Gendarme.'
'Will 'Madamoselle make' me happy.'
9' If I 'cani,Monsieur.'?
4 Lift'the corner of your veil and-let me see
your fine eyes.'
' Pa'rdoh, Monsieur Gendarme!' said, Lou.
siette who well knew if she was discovered to
be a quadroone no inducementWould prevail'
upon him to run the risk of getting 'her a
ticket.
Madamoiselle is very cruel."
"Monsieur is very rude to urge !'
'Pardonnez rhoi, ma belleI I will not urge,'
said- Jacot with gallantry. 'Let Madamoselle
wait here a few minutes and I willisee what I
6aa do. -' know it is some love affair, arid I
will'try'ahd-oblige, Madamoiselle.'
Thns speaking   Jacot,' who 'had held'this
eoeversatidh withy Lousiitte -apart- from the
other geldtaa4, left her and entered the door-
leading u'p the*'tiircase tothe vestibule 'with
aquihk'step, as if on official duty: On reach-'
ing thelitst -fnor, where masters were walk.
ingup and down to enjoy the cool air of the
testibule, he' passed into the first anti room,
Wheta gdarme had charge of thearms and'
street garhients of the guests within.- Of hitnf
he asked for'hiis citptain, as if hurriedly' seek-
ing this officer; and then passed- into the pas-
sage by 'the-grand entrance where the tickets
were delivered.  Here*'sat'a lieutenant '6f
jekia&amp;Ta in- full 'niform.;'Of jim, with
ready tacty Jacet asked for his captain; and'
toek' hi#oppiertunity 'While admiring the tick,
ets that tbod in a: salver on a table by his
side, to slip orne into his sleeve; at the same-
time (for Jacot was tolerably honest)' salving
hisconciene by leaving an -eagle,'half the
price of a-tieketj iiits place. Unobserved he
gor away 'with'his prize and the -next moment
it Wasin-the possession ofthe happy Louisette.

CHAPTER XII.
The Catalier and the two 'masks!--The trial
and judgment-The Chase and Capture.
WE shall now once more take our readers
into the masquerade,following closely the steps
of El Pirata of the Spurs, ifteir Louisette had
seen him enter the mortal. Crossing the ves-
tibule at the head of the spacious stair-case,
he passed into the ante-room for robes' and
swords, and there divested himself of his long'
black domino and mask, and delivered to the
gendarme his arms, consisting of a brace of
richly mounted Greek pistols and an -Italian
dagger ; for no guest was to wear arms into,
the hall under severe penalties. He then pre-
sented his silver gilt ticket of admittance to,
the Lieutenant of gensdarmes, in attendance
at the door of the saloon, and. the next mo-
ment found himself in the midst of the noise
and splendor and gaiety within, deafened, by,
the murmur of a thousand .voices, the crash.
of instrumental music, and the tread of the
feet of a hundred dancers.
lie stood a moment ,near the door survey-
ing the scene of life and magnificence wiich
the interior of the noble saloon presented to-
his view and then, as if reflecting that but
one object brought him there, he began to,
tread the mazes of the moving througs to seek
he who had attracted him. The style of his
costume, as that of 'a Georgian Prine was
strikingly rich and elegant, and could not'fail
to attract admiration ; for there were many
parties who seemed to walk about only to a' -
mir the varied costumes of the masqueraders.
His height, though a little unirsized was
commanding, and his person' and catriage
gikaceful. His dres was a, tunic of silver
cloth,' over which was thrown a short blue silk
irntnle;;loose trowsers of embroidered mus-
lin, bocts of richly stamped Persian leather,
to which his insuperable spur were fastened;
and an azure turban studded with stars. A
jewelled breast-plate sparkled on'his bosom,
and a massive chain of gold encircted his
neck.' A crescent of rubies blazed above his
broW ! He wore a demi-vipor or half-mask of
silver wire, like a knight's visor, which, while
it exposed his fine mouth and chin'concealed
effectually the upper portion-of his features,
and at the same-time gav6 him full cotnmand
of his vision. Such was the costuMe aid ap-
pearance of Louis as he' walked' round, the
Saloon parallel with the dais in search of the
object of his admiration. He'looked 'elossly
into the alcoves which lined the' wall 'a little
raised from the floor to' give those, sated in
them a view of the dancers, and he surveyed
every female on the promenade. But there
was no Circassian slave ! There was no where
visible the exquisite figure he carried in his
eye. He traversed the circle 'of dacers ex-
aming each ohe in vinr. A group 'gathered
at the extremity of the hall, ,where seemed 'to

11   le
J

EL,, PIRATA.3
be a sort of canopied throne attracted him  'We must then appeal for aid to the wis-
thither in hopes that'she might be found-there.: dom ot our rgya brother the Pr . gof '*eo'-
He was only able to see, for the crowd, a state- gia,' -said Florence bowing to the young cWp-
ly pair, youthful in air and noble in carriage tain of the White Wing.:'
enthroned, and surrounded by a court. Some  'I am too much honored4by your highness's
drama seemed to him to be going on, and he distinction,' said;,Louis in a. clear frank tope
proposed to make his way into the front circle of voice; 'but .ay it please your Majsty,
when the herald, who was elevatedon the there is but one way in which 1 conceive this
right of the throne, discovering him, blew his matter can, beisettled. lIt is one to w hich l
sweet toned silver trumpet, and .cried in a. always resort in'any doubtful case, and one
loud voice,                   - -    - -I have never found to fail ne !
'Way for the Prince 'of Georgia! Passage  This speech was received . with a murmur
to the throne for the most puissant Priace of of approbation, and his majesty, answered,
the Caspian Realm.                          Royal brother, you have wellspoken. We
Instantly the throng retired on either side will avail ourselves ofyour, wisdom in this
and Louis, surprised, yet yielding gracefully matter.'
to the humor'of the hour and place, approach-  Louis advanced to the throne',andgtakmg
ed the throne. The noble carriage and splen- from his blue sash a pair-of dice, said aloud,
did costume of the Persian Prince upon it, the  -'In these dice, which,I :inherited from my
stately beauty of the Princess by his side, at father, lies a harm! I will throw them thrice
first alone drew his attention and demanded for the lady on the cavalier's, left hand, and
his homage.  Having paid it with courtly thrice for the .lady on the cavalier's right.
grace, he was informed by a knight in silver. She whose cast numbers the highest is ihe
armour, who stood by, that -he had come in cavalier's lady love and the other if unmaTs-
good time ; that, for pastime there hadbeen ed will prove the false one. The signoras
instituted a royal court at the extremity of-the will abide by this.decAion'
saloon, over which their royal Highnesses the  Both bowed,!
Prince and Princess of Persia-had condescen-  'The loser is to be unmasked. Tliit ou
ded to preside; that in the course of the pro- also abide by o'
ceeding's there had beeri brought beforethe  One of them answered readily, yes. 9 e
throne a case for their royal decision, which other was silent, and was observed to beeM-
was then pending; viz., a, certain cavalier barrassed.
had-entered the hall 'with a lady who, in the  'One, of you has answered in the affirma-
course of the evening had become separated tive One of you is silent ?'. continued Leuis
from him; and in-his search he had found not while all around were. looking on deeply m-
orily the lady he had lost' but, by her -side, terested. 'Will you, he continued, address-
another so every way her counterpart in height' inr her, ' consent if you are defeated to be
costume, and- air, that .uncertain which was unimasked that all present and the ca vaWher
his lady-love, both oddly enough claiming himself may know if the, 4icehave truly de-
him, that lie was forced to bring the matter cided.
before the Prince' of Persia;'- who, having  -AI will withdraw my claim to the cavaker,
heard the case was just then preparing-to de- answered the la4y in alow voice ; and releas-
cide upon it with the gravity , and wisdom  ing his arm she turned and hid herself in the
which so mighty an affair demanded.  ' ,  crowd, amid applause and npxmug. of ,0e-
Louis thanked the knight for his linforma- rision.
tion and then gazed upon the cavalier and the  'Now,' said the other Signora,  I wiln9T
two fair dames whom the knight' 'pointed out let-my o.wn preference p reraigmaskp ipre-
to 'him, each habited as Signoras- of' rank, vent me from doing justice to the sagacity
holding one of his arms, and ioth, in all point&amp; and skill, of this noble 1lince 9 0e6orgx
of resemblance, the same. He was richly will unmask and let this cavalier seg that. I
habited in a suit of green velvet studded with am the true, that the other is, the false one f
emeralds.                                  In the presence of all she removed her viqor
'We have well weighed this grave matter, and displayed a co ntgenangeeofsgieat hewty
sir 'Cavalier,' said- Florence Noel, 'and by and sprightliness; but one unknown to, al-
our crown we are at a loss how to adjudge be- presents
tween 'you, save we command. them  to un-  'Speak, Sir Cavalier, said Florence from
mask.' - ' '. the tnrona; is the lqady she w ho cam in with
"Here masques are sacredd,' cried several thee?'
voices.                         *'She is, your Majesty,' answr a4t           r
'We do not interpose our command. All ier.
masques are here to be respected,' answered  &amp; Then hath our pya prthp thep
the Prince. 'Ouri decision be that'the cavalier Georgia-showr, great wisdom, kik 'pd 4#gr
be equally divided'from  the head downward ment in this matter' '    .
and a half given to each claimant.'  '      Vive le Prninte Georgien !' eriedt i  Her;-
'This decision was. received with general aid, and the halt .rung with the -veB sof the
laughter and loudly applauded.           multitude.o                  .
-'~ May it -please your Highness,l 'Ienter my :But Louis's atten4iou wes at that geoment#
protest against this decision,' said the cavalier, too intently engaggi to hear or hqee4,e .Jpig


EE ,?PRATA.

testimony born to, his sagacity. His eye had
at lhe instailt'0caught sight 6f the figure of the
Cimeassian slave reclining in the shadow of the
canopy at .the feet 9f the Princess. T-e-e was
nd mistikitig'the h*quisite outline --of the fi.
gure; ven' if the costume hid deceived'him;
but he had bribed the m'ndrcan'de, whose hus-
band he had'humselfenployed on his own'to
let him See it; 'and he iad it too faithfully im-
pressed on 'his nemoy to mistake it, now that
it was combined with her fatltless figure. He
stdod enftanded, delighted, and perfectly hap-
py. at the discovery.
We have already ifhtimated that Louis had
seen a beautiful femaleatthe marchande's and
become deeply enamoured; and have related
how he followed up. his"passio'n to this' mo-
ment. 'We must adinit that he was very false
to Loueett'o dd' tis; "but young-ailors
who hbist free Sfags at their naast-head, , with
halter's emblazoned on them, are no: apt to be
very-punctilious in affairs of the heart; though
to do our young Pirate of the, Spurs credit, he
had proved hitherto I very devoted lover to
the ch'eerful and'pretty Lousiette.
Ermme, who it must be already guessed was
the person Louis had fallen in love withlha-d
see-lini 'more thar loncein'the marchande's,
gazipg admiringly upon her; had encounter-
ed his glance of' respectful' passion in the
streets, and could not help feeling conscious
that axyery handsome, bold, respectful young
man ihad been' added,'to the suite of her' ad-
mirers. Beyond this, she sawnothir 'fhimI
-Ihad ziot spoken with him-no- iiterchang. i
eid"a salutation. Yet' she could not forget-
him; nor did she !
Luis 'was roused from his" pleasant 'amo-
tioiis; at this hIppy discovery of the presence
of the fair Circassian, by the voice of the
PIlnce ba' the thione.
We' have no way of suitably rewarding'
thee, royal brother- for thy' timely assistance
in this our perplexity; if'the half of our king-
4om is regarded by thee a fit testimony ofour'
royal gratitude, it is thihie from this moment.'
Mag -it please your Majesty,' answered
Louis in a tone of deep'feeling which seemed
to conei 'swelling firdi his soul. I cidaant
thnk' that my poor aid is worth your regard;
but if it"isyour pleasure to acknowledge it by
a:royal gift,'I humbly beg that you will pre-
gent me the beautiful-slave reci
feet7!'  '''lningat your
Florence and Georgine both started at this
bold, yet sd appropriate request, and thrinrh
their visoid, looked'iosely At the Prince, who
was kneeling on one knee before them. Em-
he iisnt'odly setd with surprise, but reteat-
ed up.a step on .the throne, though a laugh
be Odeing both alarnia'n'd mirthfulidesfi fell
saekIly from her 'ips" A murmir of'sr-.
priPe vent round the circiI' thronI,-nd2 all
eyfet deIuturned upon the G1eorgian 'PrInce
aml~ the tie mbling,yet Iang~hirig slave.
Florence supposing the masked petitioner
to blode 'whom he knew hnd whoi kne4 his
'sintei",'&amp;Awered with alssnlile :

'Thou hast asked a great favor, royal broth-
er ! - 'Our slave, is a favorite with us! But if
she give her consent, take her. She is thine !'
'Louis approached the. step where Emme
stood with her hand clasping the wrist of
Georgine 'and said, in. a voice full of tender'
passion,,
'Beautiful slave wilt thou be, mine! 1 will
give thee my heart-a princely retinge  shall
attend thee-and it shall be my-study to make
thee happy.'
' Nay, sir Prince, I am happy now!' an-
swered;Emmbesher heart fluttering and pleased,
she knew not why.
'Thou shalt be my bride, if thou wilt go
with me,;' he said more. earnestly; and so
deep were, his tones and' so moving-was the
cadence'of his rich voice, that a) who heard
were assured, that: the Prince, whoever he,
might be, was 'not ignorant who the Circas-
sian wa.  Florence was surprised and in
vain endeavored to detect the voice and pene-,
trate the disguise.I
'Do you know him, dear Emme?' whisper.
ed Georgine.
' No,'' answered , the embarrassed maiden,
while -her jewelled bosom heaved with the
emotion the words and tones of the stranger'
produced in it.      ,
' He: knows. you, Emme, and loves you l'
said, Georgine.
'Our slave it-seems chooses to remain-with
us, royal brother,' said Florence who wished.
to put an end to a scene evidently approach-
m  too near the real drama of teeIing for, him
to suffer his sister to be longer an actor in.-
Thou wilt have to put up with our first gift,
of'half of our kingdom  ,o which'we add our
thronealso? We, therefore, do now resign it
to you!'
Thus speaking Florence taking Georgine by
the, hand conducted her from the throne close-,
ly followed by'Emme and the three- mingled
with the crowd which they had thus far con
tributed 'their part to entertain. Louis, in-
stead of ascending the throne stood and gazed
after the retiring.figure of the -beautiful Cir-.
cassian,-and then took the same way followed
by criesof,
'Success, Monseigneur Prince!'
" Thouhast fairly won the beauteous Cir-
cassian. Pursue and woo her fairly and she
will surrenderI'I
'Bravo, hoble Prince! Tell her thou wilt
settle it with a cast of thy charmed dice!'
Not heeding .these remarks of encourage-
ment, Louis pursued them, now some dis-
tance off, guided by the crescent glittering
above the tall figure of Florence. But hilt
way was impeded by groups-tanding around
or by -parties .of promenaders 'crossing his
path and he was- soon, unable 'to distinguish
the .crescent which' guided him, among the
multitude of snowy plumes, flashing tiaras,
blazing casques, and je welled coronets. He,
ho wever, pressed on and after some- difficulty
again caught' sight of the crescent. ..The
wearer was whirling in the waltz folding in

his manly arm the princeSs. Where was tbe.
slave  He douldnow speak-with heralone anid
plead his passion. Where could'she -be left-
standing ?' -were his" hurried thouglits;n and
without delaying to look with-a hundred'others
upon the grace and stately bearing with which,
they moved in the' waltz, he began his search
for the Circassian, among ,those who stood
around. His efforts were unsuccessful, though
very persevering; and he had- just Made up
his mind to stand quietly- until the two had,
done waltzing at' which- time they, would
rejoin her wherever she was and thus give'
him an opportunity of-'again finding and
being. near her, when his eyes fell upon
her standing not two'yards'from hini. 'With
a half suppressed expression' of pleasure by a
sudden forward  movement he placed himself
by her side. She had evidently observed himi
for she slightly laughed as he approahed and
drew herself- backrapi'dly .retreating among
the bystanders.
Louis pursued, and after ,a lively chase'
came up with her at a place where a barrier
separated the ,dais from the dancing fior.
Unable to retreat farther, she stopped and
folded her hands submissively upon -her bo-,
som
'Ah, my beautiful Circassian, you cannot
now escape me!' I have: twice won youihe
said seizing -her hand, kneeling before her and
pressing ittothislips.  '
She would have withdrawnit, 'but he held
it fast,-and ri-ingdrew her arm with gentle
force within his.  ' : -    '  -
'You are a sadly wicked' prince,' she said,
in a tone soft and musical yet reproving..
'6I have more need therto, have near me
one so good as you are,' he said with'tender
gallantry., '
'You flatter me, Prince.' -
'No.' You are an angel of love and beau
ty:" From the firstrmoment'I saw you 1 have
loved you.'
S        'I ought not to listen to sudh languag
from a stranger.'
'To you I may be a stranger..' But to me
you are by no means one! I have haunted the
streets and places of' ydur, resort,beautifu
one, to live in your glance. ! Your-image, ii
impressed upon my heart.'
'1 dare say yoha'have-told a great many oth
ers the same tale ! , do..not trust you! Oh
no! I am not to believe you, for your fai
words!' she said pluyfuly. :e ;  , a,("
'Youare cruel. "You makeilight-of mydeei
passion! You mock atwhat'consumesnie!
She laughed within her 'mikori- and wa
about to reply,-when their attention wd draw
to a commotion'-nearer. the entrance cof th
Salon; and thither they bent'their steps !wit
those arounidthrem, who -were pressing tt
wards the same quarter.-
a.        '      '~  '              '

CHAPTER XIII.
The False Mask-Louiasand the Green'.Cavalier;
-The Xote.-Don Rafael Valdes.--'The,
Report.,,
On approachng'the door of the salon where
the 1confdsion prevailed, Louis ,saw the cava-
lier 'who.lhadbeen claimed by thetwo female
masks, standing with one' of 'them clinging, to
his arm,'while'he held in hi': hand :theimask,
of the other, which he hind evidently just' torn
from her face.,"She was a, very'dark hut hand#
some quadroone! and stood-before them all-in a!
deprecating, attitude,' as if:'she, expected'tb be
treated with violepde for, intruding, ini this
manner iito the salon.
'A after the decision'which hadibeen-given by
Louis as the Georgian 'Prince, arid she had'
retreated.from the throne, she had again en-
deavored in the throng -to- substitute herself'
for her rival 'upon! the cavalier's attentions;
and was so successfulas to separate' them aid
place her a:rm in his. 'The other, h6wever,ap.
proached'nd discovering her former 'kivil.
called on the' cavalier to cast her'off.' Believw;
0ing, heheld the trueone onshis arm uheregarded.
the other as the false 'one and,- charged her'
with the'deception.' To -convincehim; shell a
second time, raised her visor aid showed him:
.his error. Instantly, infuriated'with rage; he'
seized the one at his side bythe amAno after
a struggle that drew a ll yes upoi them, he
tore her, naSK from her face, ard exposed the
dark,"but lne countenance of a quadroone.
'This explanation Wass given by theinmaked
cavalierito- those around - imo-in tieusefbr,
his seeming rudeness, for, all did notete her
face and diScaver that- she ,was a quadroone,
and were -loud' and - vehementin their de-
mands that his mask should be also!,torr
off that he might  be exposed' TheI quad-
e roone, who had 'oncebeen-the'e-avalie'slfa.
vorite,, and -whose jealousy" had. brought
her, there, was then giyer nto'the- eitodyioof
. two gensdarnes -and 'takeri forth; front, -th6
I  hall.                            ,,, -:  .   i
s   ' Qaadrodne, or fiot exolaimedLhins 'id-
v4ncing astep tdwardstheeavalieafter wit-
- nessing -the occurrence, thou-wertf no'gew
, tleman to tearoff her inask! She mikht hate
r proved a lady,' whoin frolice playledi thee this
annoyanc.lo, To unmask betrwps theactofi
p dastard !, Forit t will now unmask'-thee!?
Asaberspokeiwithtkeb6ldiandsudden, act'he
s threw up.he isouierathecavalier' andsee
a posed'ethetiepata ffiyounm -nfan wefllkntlln
e infailiionable'"cirelesa 'bltathom1the'veader
h has not before encdunteiddIlia;fektoidstwwre
)! refinedahd elegant, though:theg hada,&amp;rouk
n eir-b nn'hId wasacardeLf white-althinhis
'cheeks were with orage'; fire sacardd brirgtes
:thanki iBashing eyes. "  gegidlral -exblaiha-
tion of': astonishment" andv surps'isemmingled
''with mnurnursepartlyL'qf''approbatibIhtrd
partly of disapproval,'eame frbjteataxdi

4~t

e

I

ETIATA. "


4W     fE             --PIRAW'

EL PIRATE'                        43

ers. The cavalier put his hand to his side to
grasp his sword hilt, And uttered a deep curse
at finding himself without a weapon.
'I Did I know whether thou wert white or
black, thou. shouldst, answer this, ihult,' he''
criedfiercely; yet not making any step to-
wards Louis who stood, Calmly by with the
trembling Circassian on his arm.
W.Now thou knowest !' answered Louis,quiet-
ly unmasking and removing' his turbanf ex-
hibiting a fair complexion, a clear fearless blue:
eye, and- softflowing brown locks. -Thre
was a buzz of applause at his manly beauty
as well as at his-youth. . 4 And thou knowea..
me now also,' he softly added bending hisheaa
and speaking low to the fair mask on his arn
'Monsieur shall hear from me,' said tht,
green cavalier, Lif he will give me his card!
' It is at Monsieur's service' said Louis;
and taking a tablet from-his sashhe wrote on
a'blank card and-handed it to him. Then re-
placing his mask he turned lightly away and
mingled with ' a group -wbo were moving to-
wards the refreshment room. The Circassian'
still -hung on, his arm. He. soon found a re-
tired spot- half-enrtaine-d and in shadow, to
rhich, after conducting her there, he ordered
a-servant to bring ices., - There we will leave
thein.for a while to a tete-a tee over their crys-
taltbups of crene de glace.
'The cavalier in green,glancing-at the card,,
read, aloud with some difficulty, for Louis
wrote hurriedly on his knee-,
"X. LOUIS,
Cabaret de Benito &amp;oto,
Run RorL.E"
"A lodger in a cabaret!' he repeated to him-
self.- 'But were he even a vile keeper of a
cabaret I would have my revenge for this in-
sult, if he can abut - know how to handle'a
sword,' he said, speaking aloud and looking
round.
A If he *ere a brave man,' said a French-
mnant standing by as the Cavalier moved away,
' he would net have let this M. Louis here have
gone without avenging himself on the spot.
The young man did eight . in unmasking him
for unmasking a woman!'
The French man ,doubtless had the same
kind of sympathy that led- Louis to avenge
the quadruone.; ,a partiality'for one of' the
lass! .It was this feeling that led-Louis to
atelp forward ashedid; and besides-he had re-
cognized the quadroone to be aft acquaintanceI
of Louisette's.; whom it will be -een, he was!
atthe same mdment both Atrue an4 .false to
Truein feeling but-false in practice.'
., The person he had unmasked was a young
man of fortune by, the name of Tievett Brint-
nal, a Virginian Iby birth 'but a resident of
Lexington in Kentueky , in the vicinity: of
which place he had- inherited. large landed
estate.  His. money affairs had become in-
volved by a high style. of living, an d his raf-
fairisere" in la very. derangedu~condition ;--
iwhiletu h i o 'respect changed his mode of
life or lessened is expenditure. -He was not,

however, insensible to what must be the ulti-
mate' result;and, indisposed. to retrench and
econiomise he. determined to rescue himself
by a wealthy alliance; in -addition to Geor-
giana -Warfield's wealth, her beauty attracted
him and' inspired him with .a sensation as
nearly akin to love as could exist in the breast
of a young man who loved only himself. Miss
Warfield, however, gave him no encourage-
ment. ,.He, however, followed her from Lex-
ington to New Orleans at the beginning of the
season, and fearing to lose her among the ad-
mirers with which she was surrounded, he,lin
a few days after her arrival, 'declared his-pas-
sion and made her the offer of his hand. She
civilly but firmly declined.the proffered honor.
He had sense enough to see .that there was no
hope for him; and began to turn his eyes in
another direction. He had already heard of-
the beautiful and rich Emme- Noel; and to-
wards her he now resolvedto direct his views.
He easily succeeded in getting an introduc-
tion to Florence, and through him to his sis-
ter.
Trevett Brintnall was -a man of.education
and address. He had the tact to render his
society pleasing; and -when he, made the ef-
fort to please, he generally succeeded in ef.
fecting his object among those, who,.having
no knowledge-of his former life, and of his
tottering fortunes,, were free from the preju-
dices which were in the outset a barrier to his
success with Miss Warfield. With such a
peize as Emme's beauty and money he had no
ordinary inceiitive to exert himself. He in
gratiated himself with Florence, from whom
he kept his true character and pecuniary con-,
dition concealed, vind soon became a daily vis-
iterat his house. Emme, young, susceptible
and warm-hearted, and placing the fullest-
confidence in one presented to "her by her
brother,suffered her heart to yield to the fas-
cinations of his address,.the devotion of his-
attentions, the apparent sincerity of his ad-
miration' At-length he formally addressed
.her and was referred by her, to Florence.-
'This wasson the very day upon the evening
of which we now meet him in the salon St.
Louis!, He had not since met;Florence, and
had deferred 'making the application to him
till the'next day.
'In the meanwhile we find him mingling in
all the gaiety of the masquerade, whither he
had come in company with, a rich and beauti,
ful Alabamian, who,' rith her mother, were at
the Hotel St. Charles; to whom he had been
also paying his~addresses as a reserve in case
the more wealthy Emme Noel should refuse
him! t'.The unmasked.quadroone, once a favo.
rite distresss, with jealous 'watchfulness quite
equal to that of Louisette, had found out and
copied the-costume of her whom she regarded
as her only rival, (for she had never yet seen
him abroad with Emme) an d hence occurre d
the scenes which have been narrated.
*But what had he to do there with the Ala-
bamian on the very evening of the day he had
been accepted by Emme!l' will ask some one

of my fair readers, who is no doubt shocked at a
the duplicity of this lover. The invitation by M
him to the Alabamian had been given someIl
days before; 'and, he was the more ready to c
fulfil his engagement with- her, inasmuch'as: c
he did not expect to meet Emme there till d
after eight o'clock, while he went there from  tI
the St. Charles with the other'lady a little" c'
after seven. -,Emme had in the afternoon h
playfully but positively refused to let him  c
know what her costume was to be, but told l
him that he must,with the instinct oflove, dis- tl
cover her. He, therefore, was willing to re- ti
venge himself a'little by letting her see him  s
with the lovely Alabamian. He had not pen- a
etrated her disguise of a Circassian when she s
sat upon the steps of the throne; nor indeed h
had she detected in the 'green 'cavalier her a
deceitful lover; for the hollow mask wholly d
changed his voice as it issued forth.  '  f
He had been afterwards seeking her in every t
female form like hers that passed him, when'
the false mask reappeared and the. scene fol- '1
lowed we, have just described. Such was the- t
character of the green cavalier-of Trevett
Brintnal!                          eII
After he had contemptuously put up the
card which Louis had given him, he was too
irritated to remain, and left the Saloon with I
the Alabhamian on his armcalled for a carriage'
and without replying to any questions put by-
her escorted her to her 'hotel. He then' re-'
turned to the Salon 'St. Louis, threwa  domino'
over his green- apparel,-got a different mask I
and once more entered the masquerade roOm,
thoroughly disguised.,, All was going on 'via t
he had left it half an 'hour before. Every- ,
where he sought for the person who had in-
sulted him, and also- for' Emme; but Louis
was too happy in the covert of the alcove in
making warm Jove to the fair Citcassian over I
ices, to have yet rejoined the crowd.   I
'At len th by accident he recognised Flor-
ence, who, stopping and leaning against ai
wreathed column lifted his visor as ,if fpr air.
He had a few moments before left Gedrgine
in ri'aijoining alcove with her father.. .After
making himself known to him,Brinitnal said ini
4 familiar tone,,...
Pray Noel, what' is  nme's bmsisime to
night?- I have searched 'evory where-serute-
nized every figure but lidanot discover her.'
'It is that of a Circassian -slave ! 'Ybu will'
find her'with:the party of eneraMoreauand,
family;' she left me 'to. join, them' sometime'
since' 'General- Moread:and lady are n nt
masqued.'
'You seem alone.'
.1 have been dancJIg and am fatigued.'
-' Have an interesting matter to, speak with.
you abouto-snrrtw.. Where shall .1 meet,
you at eleven .
'In the ateBourse.
'I will be there. 'A resoi-."
Florence had dorre out of the alcove where
he had left -Georgine foi'the' pui-pose'f #ip-
proaching nearer anda watching' r'nmsk- wh'o
had several stinmes'walked up 'and down

nd seemed intently regarding, as he thought
lise Warfield- -And this lberty 'Florence 1
looked. upon is insulting, especiarl7when soi
losely persevered in: He had stopped by the"
olumn'to observe him, 'when the  msk' sude
enly retired'but-not before. he 'wasisatisfied.,
hat it was Don Rafael,; for he -recalled the'
ostume of an Italian caralier in which he'
ad seen hiih on horseback at the time he rel-
ued Lousiette from him.  Brintnalthad not
eft him'but a moment when' k'lorence sitw
he mask 'reappear and stealthily approach
he box or alcove where 'Georgine' was
eated. - Satisfied that it. wasaDonRafaelhe:
d vanced astep or two towards him, when'he/
aw him suddenly place a -piece of paper in het'
4and and abruptly .retire among the 'Promend
ders. Georgine- took it involuntarily, and
lanced 'at it. Instantly she' crushed it in
ier palm,-toire itin minute pieces, and cast'
he fragments be'neath.her feet.
"An insult? Has he 'dared-?' ' exdlainnd
Florence coming up, and witnessing her euxo'-
ions as he 4had done the act.
"It is nothing-.nothing,' she said with 6n
effort to rally.
'Why then lid you tush it?
"It was nothing,' she said in a very 'firm
tone.,.
'It was something,' 'said Colonel.Warfld
rising and speaking with emphasis.' Your
very ears-are roerwith the 'mounting 6lofi
I 41 will' know- from -himself!' exclaimed'
Floience..      '
The next moment :he 'was treading the
throng with an excited step, in pursuit .of'the;
mask. On the opposite side of'heball he
came up with two'personsitanding together,
one-of'whom 'he"thought 'Don Jifheli 'iHe
was about to address him Us the person 'wh&amp;'
had leftothe pajerwhen hestarted -baekAind
paosedowith surprise.. Both of their wore'
precisely the same costume and masks;lvwere:
of the same height; andirn e word'were just
resemblances to each- other,-and both thaW
counterpart of him'who had given 'the card to
Gedrgine. "It .celd not hiveitbeen both i.It
might not have beenz'either I'4le was perplexi
ed ; and after a moment's susjterie reluctant
ly turned away and .sought'the alcove hebhad
i' He has been  foiled," said the1 voice ofDola
Rafael addressing the other," and laughing.t
' This access proVes rhy sagaeity' 1n h lwys
taking you to masquerade withmethe said tW
his English-serbakt;' Whatever I may dlo
from capriet orrevene'isdone-with impuidity.
Thou hast helped'M nftonil manylembarma
George. Was the lady'.durnask6d?'.'  I
No. Dont'Rfel   ''
'Did she readthe.eard?
'I did-not wait todsi;, M. Neel wab closely
watching' me as if he suspeeteduayfogletl-I
' He cannot have any susiteoi.1 'X&amp; svh
jealous 'guardianship of a newfede4 tr
Let -bim n joy his brief trinmpk.' 'It wlt U
belong' Theihourtis now lwithint aifelw fein
utes of eleven, when -those who choose tea

I


ELI PIRATA: -A

oroe ,thirtha s-and thus clear up the little'
mistakes of-the'veding.- J think we have
been diligentin sowing iour seed for M. Noel
to reap. 'Thewhegoes into the -waltz again
withAadainOiaelle Georgine? Near stands a:
gtoup of persons whoIdare say would likerto
hear ou news; whioh re shae already edified
half'a doxen knots with. FAtnong them, are,-
if Mistake note some of his friend. Let 'us
join them,'.
.Thus speaking " Don. Rafael and his. valet
moved together at an dasy pace inthe direct.
tion of a.party of both sexes who were at that
rmoment:regarding - Florence'and Georgine
whom they recognized as:being the sane no-
ble ' pair that -occapied the throne. Valdes
lounged carelessly up to this group, :and af-
} r watching Florence as t he whirled in the
wingedcirecles.of the waltz with envy -and
hatred burning in:hissoul, kesaid to his val-
et, in a voice to be heard by all.
That person waltzing is M. Florence No-
el,,Ijudge.'.
'So I am told, Monsieur,' answered George.
AWhat pity 'the lady, who as of high re-
sperability, should not know  the circum..
stances connected  with his birth.'
[ti- plain,-Monsieur,, that they cannot
have yet reached her ears,' observed the well:
drilled idleti Who had before assisted his un-
prindi pled mnater in a similar conversation in
half a dozen  parts of the Salon, so that what
they said could be 'overheard; such',as Don
Rafael on reaching a group beginningwith,
What an extraordinary piece of intelli-
genee!'.
Very, Monsieur,' would George reply.
It is however clearly-proved.'
I avn told ao; -echoes the' valet.'' And in
thiamay-had Valdes been-going the rounds
of the ,'all.:'He now responded to George,-
seeing thathe had succeeded in, drawing at-,
tention..
. If thenews hadgot to her she would cer-
tainly not be. seen: dancing with him;' and,
Doh.Rafael sincerely. wondered at her doing-
so after the paper hi had s#. George-to'place
in her hands. iBkt he believed she could not
yet havereadit! .  ,
'Pardon, Monsieur,!But of whom and-what
do you speak ' asked a gentleman by; and
at the-same time several other pressed near-
er to heat the~answer.
'Of MFlorence.Noel. Have younot heard
the ielligence''                      .
Nota word. No,' responded several voices.
'It's sa very. painful ircumstancej'an-
IweredfValdes 'witawll feigned regret-.
'Is his fatherilea4,??.:
Oh, no, a far worse'evilthan that??
Is it possible ?' exclaimed' several eager
eicelr the curiosity of the whole group, now
excltedand, tbeirlattntion: drawn: from the
waitserssto Don Rafael
t1Mb sdelrieed, Miesdames and Monsieur
that the intelligence has 'not reached your
eats l~ut it Is only, to day the affair; came
out.'                          a2.o

I Will Mondieur oblige us with the informa-
tion ? asked a Creole gentleman with impa,.
tience.
, , It has been discovered.that,.M., Florence'
and his sister are of ; quadroonre blood. That
they are the.children of a quadroone,' Lucrece,
whowas nurse in M. Noel's family. 'Madanve
Noel never: had any children; and M. Noel
has educated and passed these, off on the pub-
lic as his own. You see they-are both bru-,
piettes-'        .
'When was this extraordinary discovery
made ?' asked several persons after the first
burst of astonishment and surprise had a lit-
tle subsided ; for the announcement produced
an astounding effect upon his hearers.
'To-day.'
'It is false!'. cried a young man present..
'It will be proven in Court tomorrow,' an-
swered Valdes.
The true mother is living and claims her
children; and there is, besides a priest who
will take oath that Madame Noel confessed to
him that they were not her own children.'
'Who are you that say this ?' demanded the
young man.
I am Don Rafael Valdes.'
To attempt to describe the effect this.intel-
ligence produced upon the group.would be
vain. Under cover of the excitement he had,
raised, Valdes retired and waited theresult qf
his night's work, which he- knew would be,
made manifest when the masks should be re-
nmoved and the bal masque, according to: pre-
vious.regulations, should , be changed for the
rest of the evening, or rather of the night,
into a fancy costume ball. .,

4

CHAPTER XIV.

The Promenade-The Conspirac O ens-
The Insult-The appearance of El ireta
-The    arrest.
Thehour at length arrived when the bal,
masque was to be converted into a bal cos-
tume. At the signal given by the master ot'
ceremonies. The masqueraders simultane-
ously unmasked. Those who did-not choose
to comply with this regulation were at liber-o
ty to retired All who. were present, there-
fore, removed their visors. The dancers in
the dance; the waltzers as they' went cir-
cling round; the proneinaders 'as they ilk-
d   h spectitorithose tele'a LeW in'alcoves
and recesses; -one and all unmasked!
The effect for a few momgnta was, anus
ing and interestirgto witness. 'Ihes'suppTI-
ses-.-the ,discoyeries--the rddlesolver-
the perplexities unravelled  , he strange
and unknown faces beheld bysompe who be-
lieved they had' acquaintances - hanging 94

their arms! All'gave material -for a scene at field then bowed slightly to.Florence andled
once novel and ludircious. The"laughter, the almost, sinking.Georgineaway. Flor-
the exclamations, the merry remarks these ence followed her with hiseyes till her fotStm
discoveries gave rise to, for a few -moments was lost in the crowd. He stoodtalonei He
filled the room., At length order and cere- Iwas. conscious that: he, was '1the object'of
mony was restored, the music swelled fr6m  many marked observations. He felt bewil-
the orchestra, and once more they were mov- dered., The abrupt mannerandsingulareon-
ing in the mazy cotillion. e duct of Colonel'Warfeldhad astounded him.
When Florence removed his mask, he hid What had occurred? What connection'was
just terminated"his waltz with Georgine,-and there between the, haughty fearing  ofbthe
was standing by her side, her father also friends he had passed in his promenade!-and
near her. As she removed her visor he said the act of Georgine's father?
gallantly,                                These were questions that: rapidly occfit-
'I have envied that visor, all the evening, ,id to his ramind; but which he was wholly
fair Georgine! It has full long hid from me inapable of answering.' For ,a moinent hie
the sunshine of your soul-Let us promenade! stood 'alone where he had been so straqgey
I -take a pride you cannot conceive of, in ex- deserted byGeorgewhen9 e saw -his sis-
hibting to this great assembly, one so beauti- ter: approaching hm, with a pale cheeh and
ful as thyself.' - a;wild,-distressed, look.. She threw herself
'You flatter; and I am half a mind- to re- upon his arm, .-ryng,
pay you, Flbrence, by saying to you, I would  .',Oh, Florence !1 Mybrother, tele use
rather be seen leaning on your arm, than .on home ? -
those of any cavalier among them !'      'What has happened; Emme?'
'See you already begin to.attract atten-  '.1 kow not :lut'itis ferful! I havyeen
tion!                                   insulted!'
'No,. it is you rather, Fl6rence! 'Their  'Stan4 here sister! D 9poetmqye. Some-
eyes are turned upon you                thing as evidently transpired that affesj i'U
Let us walk on!' Here is Jules Morea! both,' he said in. 4_firm tgnie recqyerigi all
Ah mon ami Jules, how d -you do! I did hi energies, and self-posseson,,w j;forI
not know you were the knight in 'the silver the-momenthad beenspeneabyt   ex-
visor! What ? He has passed me by. with a traordiairy situation in wh l 'h found
look, 'but without a word! Good evening, self placed. 'Stand still here and move
Colonel Andre! I see you prove to havebeen not!'
the knight of the orange plume! How is thief ?  ''He then adviced with a proud step to-
'Did you notice,' Georgine! He passed me wards thiegroup if -whidh'Trevett Brentril
without a 'wordi of reply? Can' this be inten- formed oe with the other  o had i-aftid
tional ?' he added half-aloud."         to acknowledge hiss liatiop
'No, no, oh no,' exclaimed Georgine in an  'What'means this, Messieurs ? Wiy lmu I
earnest tone. He looked at her and saw 'the'object 6f'o much notice? May Tapkou,
that she was- very pale.                Colonel Andie 'if you heard ridsalutey6u by
"Mon Dieu! You are ill, Georgine    ' natne - few moments siice ?
'No, it is nothing.'                     I did, answered the agentlerpah doldly.
'The very words you spoke when that paper ''Then I am to take your silence '&amp; a pie-
was givenyou. - Ah, Brentnal how Ido 'you meditated ihsult?I
do? You found Emme?'              :   .  'As you plea'e.
The young Virginianm stared at him with a 'May I ask you also, .M. Jules Mordaur, if
haughty, conteinptuous look, glanced with your refnsal to acknowledge my saitationnas
very marked surprise at Miss Warfield and designed ?' demanded Florence with stirige
passed on, and joined' the two othei- gexitle, lenes. '" '''
men who: were standing gazing after Flor-  I 'designed to insult you.'
fence .                'I need not 'put the same inquiry to gou,
'What" can this possibly mean ? There M. Brentnal.'
seems a concerted Plan to treat me with ii-  'If you had I should in replyhave thswer-
sult. My friends drop their masks, and then ed that 'I 'never exehang -salutations with
mask their featuresrmore strangely still with my inferiorsaf responded the young ~irgini-
looks 'I 'cannot read.' ''.'             an with insulting haughtiness..
Let us retire a little- Florence,' said Miss  For a moment Florence stood silent. These
Warfield, in a: voice of deep emotion. 'There gentlemenwith 'whs  he wa  on terms of
is my father coming after us! We will join daily socia intercourse, had twiceope'nlyin-
him, and leave the hall.'' suited him, asit sneled tuhimuithotany
'My Geo-rgine,'said Colonel Warfield in a provocation; yet with perfect unityfaction
tone of authority, 'leave M. Noel's arm  and as if actuated bone aid the same motietof
take minec  '           '               cornduct'o Tkte was ihdeep xnystetnyr un-
Sheisinctively obeyed.: Colonel War- fathomable to'ihis reisedch iiu51l this~i )But

3ZU-PIRATA.

1 45

t'4


w46                           A     PIRATA.
that was notthen the time nor the place for aful mystery wos hanging- over him and his
ydung mam of spiritburuing innder .a sense sister. Whshould unravel it.
of.injury teiinquire into the reasons: of this  -0e stood',a, moment looking round him as
oonderted action in reference to him. He if undecided ,how to act. He saw that he
had been insulted and' there was a -.prompt was still the object of general attention.
andtdeeisiveliaode of redress.- -      Wherever he turned he met thecold eyes of
';Messieurs? he said with that calm digni- men which once were animated with friendly
ty'andsfirmness oftonewhieh'men ofourage expressions. Emme heheld on every side
,instinctively assumewhen they feel deeply the haughty' glances of ladies who were her
that they 'have been injured,: 'I thank-you, equals and associates. She trembled and felt
Jeachone-of you, for your candor! I shall-not as if she should sink insensible. What ter-
fail to waiten you very early inthe morning ribleithing had happened ,to them that they
-through a friend.    - . .             should thus be the centre of all eyes-the
'ICan receive io-commiunication from you, shunned' and banned; for none approached
sir' said M. Jules Moreu. ''Allons,' Mes. them.
4ieun,-let us go andijoin the dancers!'  ,  'Emme, my sister, this isnho place for you
'And taking the armis of the other two they and I,' said Florence hoarsely.'I ' What hath
left the-spot without furthrndtice of Flo- transpired I know not! .We shall know by
reied. He was petrified with' astonishment. and by. But we may not stay here longer!
He was utterly at a loss to understand it all. Come, let us go home!'
'Whathad' transpiredthat made him the  -  -He supported her drooping form on .his
ject of public insult-and that to from his strong fraternal arm and with a flashing eye
nearest friends. T Ie rapidly ?iewed his and a firm tread, walked strait forward. None
conduct. *,  could refdet' upon himself for dared stand before that determined brow and
nothing base or censurable.  ame  gin step. On all sides the gazing crowd' gave
approached him and neivously caught his baAk and let him pass on hisway.' Don Ra-
'rm-               .    fael Valdes, however, placed himself, in his
"Doot leave meore~ce.''             path with half a dozen other young men.
"Diot iot reacved y, ooes,     y   'Stand aside!' said Florence in a tone as
havetb itnreachedo, sstoo!  God odsy deep and determined as his feeling.
yo iebe al  - man  CanyonxGodGn,  'I turn not aside at a slave's bidding,' ans-
at does ahis mean!Ca      o  explain, wered Valdes with scorn and delance.
Emme .                                   'Dost thou withstand me, villain?' cried
'I knowpothing. I heard whisperings and Florence fiercely.,
your  nementionedIas I was walking with  'But for this trembling child upon my'arm
Jules and Clar Moreau. Jules stopped to I would tear thy false heart from thy bosom.
ask a group what they were talking so earn- Back, back, I say!
'estiabout. All eyes theu were turned upon I will take charge of thy sister,' said Tre-
me. The next moment Jules capie and with- vett Brentnal. 'Ah, my lovely Emme! You
drew his sister Clara from me, andwhispered have escaped me all the evening till now.-.
to her. She gazed on me with surprise, and Come with me while Florence and the Don
theqwithout a word hastened away to rejoin have it out!'
herfathei-! Jules baalso deserted me, going .There was something so coarsely insulting,
away after his sister.  I wasleft to stand in his tone as weltas words that she gazed
alone. I felt something 'had happened, re- on him an instant as if questioning his iden-
flecting upon me! Don Rafael Valdespass- tity.'. But when she could not conceal from
ixg, caught my handand would 'have insult- herself the fact, she uttered a painful cry and
*d me with his lip, if I had not escaped 'from would have sunk to the floor but for his sup-
him. Prom what he called me, I must think porting arm. Had Bentnal, he whom she had
he mistook me for some one, else. 'Yet how accepted as her betrothed husband, had hie
can 1 account for the conduct of Jules and also caught the spirit of the hour and in-
Clara !'                               sulted her! The idea was too much for her to
' What did he call you?' aaked Florence bear!
in a voice so deep andterrible in its strong  'What is this ? Am I an assassin? Am
feeling, 'that she shrunk-involuntarily from I a murderer? What crime do mef accuse
him as she answered~                   me of, that I am thus openly bearded and my
4  Ma belle quadroone ?'        '     sister insulted !r Friends, men ! if men ye
Florence stood in silence. Still he could are,'!tand back and give me room; or by the
not understand it.a The insult of Valdes Heaven above us I will tearyou as as a, tiger
eadO hiaspirit blaze. rBut the epithet he would rend his prey!'  o
had bestowed upon her, gave room to elieve -At this instant a young man with a-flashing
he halmistaken Emmefor another. .But blueeye and a fine, determined countenance,
then htescenduct of Jules! The'threefold in- sprung between Florence and Valdes, Mo-
sait puibliclytofered to himselff, What dread- reau, Andre and others, who had blocked up

4

47

I

his way as if purposely to deepen the insult
they had put upon him.
'What is this Monsieur Florence Noel?'
What is all this? I hear men saying here
and there of thee, 'he should be put outthe
salon,' 'he shoid be chastised for so longde-
ceiving the world,' 'he must have known his
infamy ?' And here I see men crossing your
path' with dark brows -f defiance. In God's
name What have you done?'
'That is more than I can answer the,
Monsieur,' said Florence with  - quick eino-
tion of'gratitude at finding oneiwfriendly tone
and look, at once recognising the fade of the
young seaman, who had' presented himself for
Louisette after he had rescued her.
'Whatever it be you have done me good
service once to night, and I will staid by
thee. -For her sake who hangs, terrified-upon
thy ann and who I am glad to meet again, I
will aid thee as I best tan !'
' Monsieur, I am grateful. My sister' has
alone prevented me from making -my own
way,' he said ; for the poor girl now required
the support of both his arms.
Louis then turned upon' the party, who
were corifrontiag'torence, having planted
themselves' ddiec'i6j-n the passage,;which
ran between a 2droiof 'colums; theft having
taken their post between two. Many others
stood round looking on with interest. Flor-
ence, Emme, Louis, were alone, as it seemed
against the-whole salon.
'Messieurs,: I pass here ' said Louis in a
calm clear tone. " He who disputes niy pas
sage risks his life!'
Don Rafael, who stood nighest, met his eye
and then stepped aside muttering an oath.-
Jules 'Moreau- stood'- firm as -if resolved t
'maintain his post. His arm was locked ii
that'of Colonel Andre's.
'I must, pass, Monsieur,''said Louis in th
same quiet tone.
'Does Monsieur intend to move?'  '
'No.'
As quick as thought the the hand of Loui
was upon the collar of the young French
man and lifting him up with as much ease a
if he had been a child, he thrbw him acros
the barrier ' into the alcove; A murmur o
astonishment and surprise followed this act o
surprising strength! - Colonel Andreaimed
blow at Louis's breast which he caughtfupo
his arm, and at-the sane instant'this gentle
man layupon the floor at hist feet.'
These bold acts, asdarig an&amp; successful
conduct always will, tutnedgwith hthe aido
certain considerations of personalisafety, th
-feeling of the crowd so muchrin his favor an
that of Florence, that the latter was tsftere
to pursue. his way towarda then door iumi
lested, bearing his sister upon his sarnz, an
preceded by Louis.
SThis person, it will be remembered, w

left tete-a'tetewith the.-masked.Ciicassian in
One tof' the alcoves. 'Thisbitof flirtation *s
every, way gratiyig to the young..'Pirate of
The spurs;, and -he. made, great* progress in
the .affctions ofis minanorata. -She *as
very lively and seemed greatly to enjoy his
society; .and he:felt .that he had achieved a
conquest over her heart. We will not detail
the progress of his-lovenakming; nor recount
his protestations; of eternal: fidelity niade on
one knee! When the signal for theirethoval
of the mask Was given, 'he6 bade him kneel
and shut his eyes,-while she untied the kinot
of his own behind. He knelt; she went be-
hind. him;' he closed hiseyes,- and' waited
very patiently, for, full a ,mimute,,when he
thought-her fingers must bever'soft.. A sus-
picion flashed across his mind -He pran
up and looked round,,and, lo! the -bird-ad
-flown. ; He pursued at a-venture.
Monsieur bas: forgotten, to unmask,' ssd
the chef du: bal,' courteously arresting him
- with his silver-headed baton.
- While L ouis was removing hismasque, the
fugitive had escapedi.he' believed, beyond
hope. In the course of his ubsequent search
he eard-the rumors we have-alluded to, and
at length- espying: Florence at bay, he-had
made, his way-towards .hin, whenhe, to his
joyfulVsurprise, found his lady-love unmasked
and pale, hanging upon his arm. It was-no
time for congratulation or reproof, but for-ad-
tion. , He 'wellknew the name-of; theimaiden
he had fallen in-love with at the nardcadeu
- de costume to-be 1Emme Noel, and that M.
Florence ,Noel was her, brother. Hislove,
therefore,soared high,:forthe family of Noel
he knew to be among the wealthiest-and frst
o in respectability in  e city.. But Louis was
n ambitious. His passiontoo, for Eimethought,
ronantic-wa sOincere and elevated. lihad
e thought,:however, that she was. a- littieltbo
free and lively with him* a maskedea anger,
on a-first interview; but lovers seldoih t"ake
this a grave subject of complaint. - -
s - Monsieur, I arrestyou 'for an assault,? said
( Ln officer of the gensdarme laying his hand
s onLouis' shulder.
s   'Bien, Monsieur- IntendantN' an 'wered
f Louis clieerfu4lly. 'dAn4eall nrdli to
f protect-M.(lorence.Nol.aild hi. se ter to
a their carriage.. -or si6nd rea o - koo he
n has become thevMictim of age*fbeling of
hostility. n                        4
A He shall be ptotedted,
1 'This noble young man hadeqi 40
f myr defence, CaptaircLeraur. ie
e be arrested',     4 f
d -' 'kgought toi be arrestedalso, Monsienr,
d fersbeingthetein the salon if what s report.
M- #devey there he strue,'- said the intendant
d of Felief severely.        U'       A
-IWhat-do-you know?what'havrru~
e asked Florence wihasarete


, 8ILAPftATA.

If

- ' - OIAPTER, -XV.

amounted to agonyistopping in othe - dooo i
the vestibule, which they had no vveached'
'Ydd -dpQ well to iffectignorance. M. Noel.'
There is-no person; heiemore ignorant'o
whathas occurred to produce all thisexcite-
ment against me,!:
'Then I can tell, M. FlorencetNoel  said
the voice of Ddn Rafael Valdes in a loud
tone;- for this man had followed- his 'victitn
closely up to worry him and to enjoy his
guilty triumph.
I will even thank you for the news,' said
F16rence with -bitterness.- and ill concealed
contempt.
'You may thank me,', -answered Valdes
with-a significance that had dieper meanin
than-was conveyed to those who heard hun
- Thsare hath recently appeared certain evi-
dence that you are not the son- of the late
Madame Noel;-.but of his -'q*gdtwione.- slave
-Lucrece. She now liyei andi -is prepared to
make-bath to-morrow, before' the proper'tn.i
bunal that you and your sisterEmme are her
children! If thou appear there in the morinin
you will there hear the- evidence! -There is
also further confirmation in' the- testimony -o
a priest,.- who confessed the late- Maaame
-Noel, that she acknowledged,- you -were  not
hier children; and that she had only confess-
ed you to-be such to .theworld by - the com-
-mand of MNoel! This priest wi 1 be  - als
befo'ethe tribunal to-morrow! -.-This -is the
-information-you desired at my hand, Moi.
sieui,' addedYaldes with-malicioia" triumph
Florence stood like statue; -withont coloi
Or -inion!-Helistened at-firstr With 'a prdud
-aid scoriful emileit But k the proofgire-w he
became:paleas -death. -When: -Don Rafael
ended-all eyes were turned :on the 'victim,
NpeI'dslips trembled as if he would say some-
.,thing: Then-his hands shook; and'a shud-
d4er passed over his strong, manlyframe. He
bentover theform -of his sister, who had
.unk lifeless on the floor by-hisa eide, at the
first word intimating the' nature of the 'ac-
'cusation against them.- His' eyes were fixed
--and glassy. Againhis -lips moved and- he
spoke in a husky voice, :and in a cadence
touchingly painful to listen to,
'Sister, Emrie l,-Come .child let us go!
Did- I notitell thee this was no- place for us!'
He raised her- in his' arms! His , eyes at
theistait fell on- a-sword in the hands of a
gendarme. He snatched it from him! -
'Stand aside"-all of: ye! He who crosses
my path dies!
He-bore iher forth, all giving way as he-ad-
vanced. The next moment he was'flying
through the streets-like a maniac. The ser-
viepsof the-old porter, Reger le Roux,-were
mnotneededist the porte-cochzere. - With a sirn-
ge atr~le of his foot he dashed the door from
stagess, arnd entered the passage leading
do  4rer vonmsofthis -mansion. -

Ej IR4%T4

The imbecile .The'. dieppointment--The
.                n.
I- an apartment t the extremity of the
corridor on the second floor of the house into
which Florence entered, sat a gentleman in
a robe, e chambre. His head was perfectly
white.;,though his age was, not fifty. - His
countennce was a -noble wreck of former
-strength, and-intellect. The roop was sunp-
tuously furnished, and a shaded, lamp shed a
- soft light upon the crimson and musli- dra-
.pery of the windpws and couch. It was long
- past miidight, yet he sat in a deep velvet
hahked chair, hi bed untouched. On the
floor at his feet, crouched a young slave half
a sleep: and on a pallet inone-corner slept a
negro woman,-his attendants. -. He was gaz-
ing with a. vacant eye on the row of gilt rings
by which the bed curtains, were suspended
f from a rod, andcounting them incessantly in
anumbling tone of voice., Now- he would
count them forward, now backward,and give
utterancetoa low idiotic chuckle, as at each
end ofthe rod the number ofthe rings cameout
the same. t seemed as it -were, to his mind
a great.mystery that it should be so.  .
This person was the father of Florence and
Emme.. The light of his- -ind had dimmed,
- and reason no more held the reins of, his
being. His existence was animal only, .a
living body, without a souL
- e  deny. a rapid step,,a-heavy deterrnin-
ed tread, along the corridor capght,- hs -ear.
He started, stopped his counting and. listen-
ed like a timid hare. The n qgmoment the
door of his' ropm was thrown violently !open
and Florence entered bearing the lifeless
form of Emme supported on one arm, the
other still holding his sword. He stopped-
gazeda romeit ora-the affrighted - old man,
who hid his face in his rob as he. entered,
and then approaching the bed .he placed his
sister -pon-t
'Lay theie, unhappy child!'It were bet-
ter, if this fearful tale be true, that you never
come -again-to' -consciousness. He looked
tendeily upon her lovely 'ianimMate face, and
then turned away and approached his father.
- He did not atfirst speak to- him. 'He. stood
and gazed-upon' him with a -face expressive
of -bitter despair-ofhopeless despondency.
'Who-is it?' asked the old-man 'without
Suncoverig his features.
"Florence Fither,' he added taking his
hand inhis and kneeling by his side, '-will
you try and listen to me !'- -
'There are twenty-eight ring - counting
,one way and twenty eight counting the other

49

way. I cant understand it. I amglad you
haye ors, scn, to explaiin it to ne!'  -
ather, your childrenare unhappy. We
are in great -ditress! 'Look!" I 'kneel in
wretchedinbss before you! Turn youir- eyes
to the bed and' you will see Emme lifeless
frormdeep grief that hath shocked us. Spe04,
dear father! Rally your mind, - and answer
me one question!
'You) have not answeed me,  and you
frightened me when you came in! I thought
it was robbers!
'Father, do you remember myniother?'
'Mother-.mother! I have no mother,' he
muttered as if impatient at being thus pressed.
'Your wife, the mother of Emme. Do'you
not reniembrher.'   -
 ' Oh, I remember I  ad a wife! Oh  es.
She was poisoned! Iremnember. But I don't
kenember Emme!
'Emme was her child.  I was her 'child,
father!'
'1 don't remember,' answered the imbecile
old man with a slow negative movement ci
his head fioin side to side.
'Po yot; not know me, iny father?. Do
you not-remember that I am your son Flo-
reuc
'Yes, I know you are Florence?7 You have
!egood son to he, Florence' he said
lyng his hand upon his arI.
a  would have loved iy miither also, if she
had lived.'
'V'our idther-slie p6isoried her!' ---
'Who, of'whom do you speak?'
'T wenity-eight this way aned twenty-eigh
that way. -I am glaa you have come to tel
roe how it happensto be twenty-eight count
ing forward and just twenty eight counting
backwar ds ! It is very msterious !' And th
old man again directed his attentionn to th
rings and resumed his nmonotonous ceaselis
counting.
Florence rose in despair, for he had beez
.kneeling before himand paced to andl fr
the chamber, - He tried to'ilebt calmly ahn
cooly upon what had occurred. At one mo
-went he would laugh with derision' that s~
wild a tale should for a moment be regarde
eeriously; and the next, as he thought ove
the insulting scenes at the masquerade, h~
clenched is fists and vehemently "beat hi
forehead as if maddened by the .recollectori
He rejected with scorn at first the idea thi
there could eist the least fonidationifd
such astoryf; then, as he realled the detail
ed narration giveni by Valdes he shudlderst
with hIrror lest it might pruve trae. d -H
walked up nd down the roo  in nrieat e
citjidati 'He tried to revive the incellesi
tion 'of liiiothera; ht it was fineand ti
'certain, so young was he when she had died
ie 'had also a vogue recollection of a nus
called-Liirece.

'I will know. .all' ze , cried. He then.
glanced towards hi4 ster    'Let -he,' -li'
there ! Ifthis kl'e6rbveirbiht, bef  It'ere'
'h6iever'awoke tZ real1e hr infniyl- T
will ko6wall." -ogi te8kiix has bedridin -
the family from mg birth! Irll seek hihi'!'
lh'fbuna the old porter in the u6Ah  ith a
larp in his hand'gazing on th6 fallen "dbo
and trerblirg with 'fear.
'There hath bei thieves here, Master
Florence,"cried the porter in alarm.
RogerI it was I! Listen to iin, old nan,
he cried, grasping him by the arni; didyou
know Ay mother?'
 ''Yes, Master Florence, and a iioble lady
se Wasto!
' Did--didl.--' here hisVoice becatde trem.
ulous, 'did you-do you remember a q6d
roone who was in the family ?
'Oh ye   Lucrece! !"he 'was given up t'
the police by myinaster, onsuspicionofhav-
ng poisoried Madame!
'Is thionomnanliving?'
f 3I saw her pass'theprtecochere not &amp;wee-
ago, lyfonsieur Floreice" but 1 hiad4not s o-
kei with'her for years. 'She is a' vile wod
Srnan!
"''his wonimn-w-s she iny'father's slaVe P?'
'Yeb, Mon'sieur Florence.'      '
I   Was she fair-did she pdssess atiradion 7
--thais do you remeniber if she "O  &amp; fa'
vorite qtmy fathat's. -
'M. Noel vas not suph a man,' answe-ed"
Rogr with displeasure, andjniYa Mry  ds-
tive tone.'
t   'There was no intimacyvbetgeen theti?:
I   'Never, Mohsieit- Fioience! Would you
- insult your father, in his affliction.'
g   'Iam justly reproved, Roger! I will not
e insult him! The tale is false ! I will not be.
e ieve it. I will roie it false,'
-1 b turned from-the astonishe4 prtei .
abruptly as he had 'agi-oathed hii, h  a
noc meteuh hiis fathe'chaibl0t   Thp
o imbecii old an, tiredflolditiguphis hed:
d to look at the rings, Was rbw couintiginsteadI
- the beads of a rosary, *hich 'he hel- in his-
D hinds, and equally surprised ind'delighted' to
d find that whidhsoever wa"'he 'conilted'themi
r he, made thirty one,."i6tende'stood'a'nd're
'arded him' a moment il'a166k ok  in
s helessiless andIcompassid ul  then '  d,'
.   No, ffther!'I" will iot i   tlbyteh
t thLough. - RogefRle Roux haihfm
-r justly.'  I Will' not believe 'this f e
- -ha fiend, in human shape, hath fatblibatbt'
fit ? he added vig'ain walking the roorn'hMW
lisit all wiennewit endkn ew it beforb-I?

48S


5(0                            ELp
fearful  sto y. Tat -lovely girl the oflppring
of iL qpia4rogune mother! The hKld of aslave!
No. I reject .the 'idea witi scorn!I wifll
standmup before men, and for her sake, de-
clare it false, and defy proof!'
He bent over and- affectionately kissed.
He ihen ordered the two slaves to assist him
in restoring animation. It was already dawn'
of day when ,he revived, so deeply had her
senses beendsunk iito insensibility..
'Oh, Floieence, you are here!' were the
first words with a smile of recognition. 'I
have- been dreaming such a fearful. dream!'
'It was-'olv a.dream, sister!
'Then whj aii I here ? Why are you so
pale?'. she cried rising and gazing wildly
rounj. 'What bath happened?'
' Nothing. You have been ill. Take this'
c9miposing draught, and' sleep.' She receiv-
edit at his hands, and soon after fell into a
quiet slumber.
'There sleep, my child! May angels watch
over thee! Sleep and be strong to bear,
whAn you awake whatever evil' may be the
issue of this! I-A'ust. now go forth and. see
whence this rumor hath come. I will trace
it up to its source! I will find its starting
place, and there prove it to the world a foul
lie! 'In the. courts he said-this Valdes,
in whose Jeyes I saw sparkle malicious tri-
umphas he told tie tale. In the courts this
reorning this woman and this priest will, ap-
pear'to substantiate their claims! I too Must
be there! I iill know all-I will hear all the
damning proofs- of my dishonor, if proofs
they bring !---But let me not forget first the
claims of grattitude. I will seek the prison
andsee that this young man who defended
me so boldly be released on my security.
But off with this masquerading attire! I bet-
ter- become a- slave's tunic than a prince's
robe!' he added with bitterness.   .
He retired to his room and in a short time
aftierwards came forth in a plain citizen's
dress, enveloped in a roquelaire, ajd his hat
shading his features. . On gaining the street
he took his way in-the direction of the prison.
The sun was butjustrising and he fdlt re-
lievedat the reflection that he'should not be
likely-to encounter any one he knew. As
he passed, the botel St. Louis, his blood
rushed like lightning from his heart to ,his
brain, and he felt as if he should fall to the
ground 't was there that Georgine' abode,
an! he could see the closely drawn crimson
c-tains of the window of her apartment. It.
was the first time his own and his sister's
misery gav egm~ full time to turn his thoughts
towds her. He groaned deeply.s lIe could
nowv nceout for the abrupt manner in which
CohuliV9arfield had' ta n her from' his
arm. Opuld sheet too, believe this' strange
and' reproable tae. And why unprobalble?
he asked himself. Have not such tings be-

fore happened? 'Tis not three months since
a young imerhant shot himself, on discover-
'ing hiniself'to be a quadroone! If this prove
true, Emme and I had better both die! Im-
probable it will not be regarded in a city
where such' things have before occurred;
and, for that reason, this tale is more easily be-
lieved! But can she believe it ? That note*'
I now believe had reference to this tale;:per-
haps informed her of the rumor. She Mtore it
up with indignation! If the paper referred to
it, she believed not the report. . This idea,
sustains me! Yet I may not approach her to
confirm it! I will not see her 'until I have
proved it false!'
With a spirit that rose in resolution and
strength, with the idea of Georgine's favor,
he moved onward towards the prison. Re
soon reached its glootny precincts, and caie
to the main entrance. The turnkey at first
refused to admit him; but a piece of gold re-
moved his objections. The heavy. iron gate
ofthe lobby was unchained, and. unlocked
and opened by him, and an assistant was sent
with him through the passages of the prison
to conduct him to Louis. .'After opening
another gate, composed ofa strong "lattice of
iron barascovered, with sheet iron, Florence
found himself in a vast apartment of the pris-
on, gloomy and revolting in its features. It-
was the common prison-room of the Cala-
boose, and capable of accomodating a hun-
dred prisoners, half of which number, ofevery
shade of complexion, and seemingly of every
nation, were now there locked up, as he en-
tered. Some were piled in a dark corner still
asleep: others were eating their coarse break--
fasts; others pacing up and down gloomily.
Some ofthin seemed reckless, some sad;
some were silent, and others noisy. All were
more or less wild and savage looking; and
not a few had stamped upon' their ferocious
visage, the deep impression ofvillany. Many
voices were confusedly mingled together in
half a dozen tongues and there prevailed a
disorderly confusion anda savageindepend-
ence of all control. Near the door on the
inside a gezdaee with a musket at his shoul-
der walked up and down. To him Florence
made known his business.
'If you want to see the young man in
masquerade costume who was brought in at
two o'clock this morning, you will find him,
there asleep!'
Florence crossed the stone floor to the op-
posite side of the prison and saw the person
he came to se gnietly sleeping wrapped in
the domino M1Idg'orn to the salon over his
rich, costume'. ;Hegazed a moment on his
calm-featurdy in which'the freshness of youth
wThe note contained -the following words :,'..
Plorence Noel is of quadroone biruh! An a iance
with him would be infamyj ?

I

EL PIRATE.                                 51
and manly determination , were singularly liberty, otherwise I can make myspif quite at
blnded.                                  hone 'here.'
SYo4 hadlbst not wake that child,' said a ' You have a cheerful heart, Monsi.
bull-.dog loo~tg Englishman  ith a swelled  'I iave ui-'eas6 thave a satioie ! May
eye, who w    others had watched the' en- I ask howlyou- sist&amp;reached )-ob  !
tranc'o Florence'with sort of dogged in-- .In safety. Sheisnoasleep! lat this
diffence, when they ,discovered he was not also affects her, fills me ,with anguish. I
a prisoner like themselves. Florence look- could bear up if it was myself alne. W ere
ed inquiringly at the speaker. ' Try him, sho notinnocent and lovely a she isnVb1-
that's all!'When he came in we tried 'to pi- ved in the infamy, I 'should .be'ih6ined, to
geon him as. we always do first covers who b lieve it wae sorieplot toinjule tie As it
have anything we takes a fancy to, but we is I dont'kno''what 'to think b'it. " re
got the worst of it! He has more lead inhis comes 'the mesr'ger I desy tehed t
fve, fingers than any man 1 ever caine across chef duPolice offein to le you bal. What
and i've stood sixty rounds with a prize fight.. says he?' delan ed Florence of th5iiianas
er aid whipped him. But this chap gave  ; e entered the prison,
my breakfast in the seventh round, and I m~',"That he cannot 'ake the security "of a
bully here ! and there he sleeps as if he had qua4doon.'
never played at any thing but chuck far- ' Florence buried his face in"'his 'hMnds,
thing!'                                 turned away and uttered a low wail'of'an-
Florence smiled;- for he recollected the guish.
good service doie him by the" pame, stonP  ' Ask him if he will take gold, anaihat
arm and willing spirit.  He bent down 0intun oddeposit?'dem'nd~dal'os. ''heer
lightly touched his shoulder. ,Luis instant- up Mosieu 'i'his wilibe proveri fale!'
ly sprung to his. feet and the fAshigg eye  Florence removed his hands fror his fice.
with whlih he turned, uponhim lighted up It was colorless. Despair was d eply im-
with alook of recogntion".       ,I    printed upon it.' Thie uian returned and said,
'I am glad to 'see you,  monsieur Noel,' he ' 'One thousand4ollars ,wibe received.'
.said extending hishand and speaking  n a   'This suin I will'bend to ny house for at
frank, cheerigltone. 'You seem bietterthis once,' exclaimed Florence.
muoriinz thesee devils,! I wish  had them  ' No, Monsieur. "T intend to forfeit it, and
Atogetfier on the deck of a, shi 'a hundred I alone must loeeit-stay, garco! ,ke
fathoms' off and I aboard rmyi little White this slip of paper to the corned' 'elw b to
ng wj      Niu my long, Tomi' charged t, the the cabaret of Benito Soto ', ideniWfor one
muzzle with grape4  ut their tfite wilgome Logisette andsplace it i   ,hauds.,  jaste
especially that of that ifernal Spaniard lHe thee ndtyo'4hallhave a  eidan"eao on
seemed to glory in your fall, 'e ,seunoudei ypur return!
'It was he from' whomJreseuPd 'your little  In the fiterval Floreiceli-elated  i is  w
friend Louisette and for lis'reason he as friend all heAnowaofWhis th ;-ti r,
particularly hostile' tome!                  b     1 decided that they ni t  e is-
' Ah,it was he wis it. exclaimed  oui sof r   appoinace of the      dooi!nd
thro ughiis -losed 'teeth and ma- deep tone priest iot e Icouor that       e
of ankipated 'revenge.   This..Don and I coul act; orLide what c.
then have ala an secount~ 4.o'settle. I  ill .  abou4te  mniutes the njesen ~ 'e~d
adjust yours writh'hiun atthe samoetimge.  ut po~wed~            wiuhseitte ~ bhoti-
whatfoundation is there for this story,    e ih tears rue              t   d
ieur Noi? .       c    ,castPself unto Louis'arm                    ho ser
'aNone,                              h    eaoeyerthat  lea tr,  ,eoaty,,
know of   is whatheard 'from Don Rafae     ;   ,m   a eher Igu44  am se i     to
leistrue'myfitliea4ie   haqu4adrqeTno.ne 'ced you! Owi n
omen whose' pre       asa ucege !   gt   sbdistped! ut      o                   1
auLnot 1msult i  eerry   M y rg    rbyn      uip
J9nig               g        teq de          g e4ui you bring t             old
living has lost 'is m dby  ropg eqia               e  ouis.      sa alt       ag
thought. .Y    he   4  lievea    'ue.',  oblfrom         r               hs is
'aS i~ quie, n    $s, conduct last f.'   eBt      oye   I4              on
,n                                           q                         0 etihisse
w ya    jrn :  in    L4                     Vale lineln a  t    He
..qJeatQ9 re g      rogu    pRiaopn 4of- camne  r0eewne. .    '6    4   i
sfByechr4tyjebat4Is ~ b trequie  ~ 'kpp  4alan dogn', ,tt
~m   a~ree vegy 1d9), &amp;  el. ,To q       p     awayp'n, rgeine4 ~   4    n't
99pu tniAth Iageg ugagg ea      dtht gith         ogh Id di5 onie 9~A  $,he
omagn9tyvery well carry git unless tamu'athf ejuohce .,, s ~n


'52             ~~~PIRATA. O1I~T.5

Condt-cted by a 'gentaifie' they jeil the
prion Pow, and, by  long passae reached
the Pohee court-ro rn wich s then in ses-
sion. The gold was deposite4and LMuis left
the cou a ibe,accompnariied by Florence
and Louisette. The two former parted prom-
isin g to.-meet at e(n o'clock in the Tribunal
of Justines wiere, they expected thi priest
and quadroone JeXcrece to appear: 'Florence
Sthen batenedbbmewad to his ster, while,
Iuid ardoistte tht the e&amp;a'ret ;here
.64e utrlycbnfhugied1 . gaby 'epeatinrfto
hi'the- numerous. passionate terms hie ha
made use sof in*'his' flitations with the'Cir-
cassiai, and by showing him'    ring, li hiad
pIpced on the.Circassan's finger ad a Pledge
of his undying love !louis was vexed; but
laughed heartily, acknowledged his fault and
was very readily forgiven by Louisette, on
his promising never to attempt to deceive her
again, This he promise, but nevertheless,
feltthatflief as juit as much in love with
mm    Noel as eve, though he did riota0 eo
to Louett .

CHAPTER XVI.

I Te' frizrnar--T e Rsl-TeDe-'
'As l~nogc entering his d*elliig a
seirant from thehoteiSt Louis placed'a not6
I~ hi bfndR. He tore it open and read 'With
-ah           ge
i1  Fl pnce,;4f it will suppoit you
un eryvourPresent tri:I5e.'be' assn-ed'-that I

cry. Her eyes asked him the question, her
lips refused to frame. He understood her.
'It Will prove a conspiracy, -myl sister! A
few short hours hence" we shall linow all.
The tribjihial opens a t ten! ' Our acnsers are
to appea there! Be calm-=be composed!$
'I am, brother! I feel only"'for you! 'The
story is all false!'she cried"with spirit,.
'I amn glad to see you thus!. Bear up.
Here' is Georgine's note!'
'She shed tears of joy while reading it and
' ried
'I' ewd"    s  atre ! But she is'right.
Don Rafael Valdes is the rmover of this.'
Florence was silent. This idea was gath-
eiing strengtI "in" his mind! it '*as "taking
fulipossession of his soul!
I.
The Tribunal was thronged. Befo-e the
judge stood Lticrece the quidroone; a still
handsome, boldl'ooking woman, 'with a dark
restidss eye w-th aviciousexpressioi. Not far
from her stood'thegadre.Fansto, in his coaise
gen aid leathrn girdle. A little distari'e
off, from him stood Benit6 the cabaratierlook-
ing c'arelessly "dns "a spectat6r. 'Not far
frm-him on the'leftstood,"with "derinac
triutiMh in his looks, Don iafap1 AVldes,
little in ade&amp;Vnc of agroupcomposed oflules
Moreau,.ffndi-e, brentnal and,'theu6s  To
the rightinear thiabifr stoodFlorence wrap-
Oed t this ee in his c0oak, and Iby" his side
Louis in hieaniuaah's attire, adfwith his long
knife in'his belt. 'The rest'of the space was
filled with aenSe throng-
The",quadioone Lu 'creebeing formally
sw'n', theninid6 a statemnt' almost word
for word, that already recorded' and'Which
Behito's biain had invdated;' She'made' her
delariitions of maternity'with a crn]dent'air
and - clearfirm v ibe.'"A it 616t b she
referredtdthe'prieut, #ho'aiso'being 'sworn
donfiuied ini a~lphits hei evidence y his
fful "tile. A'mo-ei-innghthou" and un-
principled statement yet one niore plausible
affd consistent'hi allpa 4,*s  never swqrn
to by th6 fE&amp;18lipof0ina'bi d6inen. ' The
efteetiipen th  adieicewas :irb-isatable.
The factseemd' established a 'every mind.
Flfence Was I utterly conftunded. --H, r ior
overwheltngd'his soul'! His sight failed :hiin
and he *ould'h O fallen tbt-    s t nh brt'
"Courage; my 'friend!'This is alery
well 'inade out, but they are a pack bfinfer-
nal devils! I have watche'thei los ly,&amp;nd
this 'Dori Rafel4 eour.Ten tie t - d I arh
'satisfied thfatitis alend iracy shed that he j a
part to-it, if not the' priitioveri i iti!That
wo an ha  a nialieiu  v isage' and Mi4ould
swear'thaw tis her 'hl4 to, 'ifsis# Mild
g&amp;irl any thing by it~ As to" the 'pristVGie

cnt of the rascal's Jib is enough for 'me! 1
'kne*ohim and all about'him, and ifI d'ont
(nake hiin insay all'he has said this morning 4
Ii-l.a6at my long' tom for a  sunday's dih:L
neiP!"
' Mytrue friend, I cannot have i any confi-
dene even in 'your 'cheering' words, 'after
4hat I-havelistened- to! That that woman 'is'
my mother I firmly believe!,From this mo-
mrent I am an accursed man! Comewith'Tme!
cannot stay here! Let me fly and 'hide my!
shame!'
He leIt the' Court with a hurried yet stag-
gering ste. Louis 'kept close by his side,
like'sa tried and "faithful friend.
"Whithetido-yeu 'go, Monsieui Noel.'
'Home. Nay, what horne have I now? [
am a begger, and nolawful heir ofmy father'!
What have. I to do with his mansion! Truly
'God has cursed him for this great wrong up-
6n me and' my Sister!
'Goinevertheless, to your sister! Remain
at home until you'hear from me!', If need' be
barricade the house! I will before tentt,
-four hours ar 'past sift thisinatter to the bot-
'tnYou'nare not this-woman's'child, andsh'e
'h'allconfes'it! So shall this priest; so shall
DWRafael confesathat it is a conspiracy. "I
have means of 'asertainirig all this you lit-
tle'know of?
'Who and:What are you, my biave friend P
'You seem to be my guardian ankel I"
'As I before told _y u IamM. Louis.
live at the cabaret'of'Benito Sotoon Rue Roy-t
ale. There you will hear from me -or fild
*e any time to day, if you have any need of
the."'ButI'hope' to: see you before hight
with further news. It is my intention to' fol-
l1w !uj'thisquadioone workaxi and pretend to
be herfriend and firm believer in allthatsshe
'hassaid, and your foe t:Leave me thet4oget
the truth from her. The priest I-know 'well
i hant. 'I have heard my, Menspeak.of
him often.'                       '
SAre'-yot 'a-captain, Monsieur?;,' -
""Yes.' AnaI;shall have a:nice little craft
'your service before midnight, ifyouchoose
'to 'leave this city. ? I'mean if this should turn
'outpagainst you-which'I do not'dar R'u
. , 'hiye no hope answered Florence des-
'pondingly.
They parted beneath the corridor of' the
court)a nd'went dach different Ways.  Flo-
"4etc0tirned 't/waovds'the door of thetcathe.
:draiclose at'hand'and entered; as lif-to comin
'6s6hisrind by- the'conteiplatiow ofithe
toerran sceneS withi.in' He knelt A fe* mol
itridatsbeforedths'alterand thn'rosestreigth-
ened*; but yet without hope. He thLn 'took
his way slowly up a street leading in the di-
rection of the cemetery as if he would wall
and think over calmly all that had passed. It
was an hour after he had left the court wheo
he reached home. As he passed the door of

his gister's:rdomhe heard,'her-:passionately
weeping.' He:entered andeshe'tried to con-
coaf a note. He took it from her with gentle
force andread a' follows:
myM 3EAn iftFlUL EMME,:
 It has been'provem this morning without
question that you are 'ofquadroone blood&amp;
Although theta court has n6t yet givenits de.
cision, publiopimon ia forestalled it It
hasidedlared you and Floreice; the children
of the quadroone woman Lucrece l iThere+
fore, you.,eannot expeePriAe td think tifyout as
4 'wife! ybur beauty wilbat oncefrender yotd
a rare prize, and many young men will hasten
to honoryu with-their notice. As you have
no legalI right'to any property ofM , Noel you
will of -course have to look for a suitable
friend.' I am no less attached to you'than 
was before this uuihappy affair came out;and
though: I cannot now be 'your 'husband.:I
should :be most happy to bethis friend! I
hasten to make this proposition to: you lestI
should be anticipated, as Ihave. heard Don
Ratfhel)already intimate: his intentions ,To
'escape annoyanceafld secure yourself from
insult and destitution throw yourself uponthe
protetion I offers you.'
)Youts truly,,
,k1TnEVETT BEreNTrAL.
AThis ,aionl heeded   Ts alone was
wtntin0-.ned Ploiened"with' terrible'calui-
ness as,heletushed thdoinfamous proposal in
his clenched hand.' -Emme, remain'herp;
if I fall-ifanything hapens toime, and yot
are thusinslted usethis -sige it like altru
woman--like a istei'hworthy of me ?; , a
not any longer to stand still and let this storm
break over ine without an effort to meet it
like a man!
*Asshespoke heplacedihaherhanud ~ag-
ger.     r       _o         e    -ing
"  other 'Florence!' she-shrieked'ling-
ing to him-with wild despair., ;The dextbii,
ment he' was in'the street/and goig ata-
pid-tresd ifithe-direction of-theCqfeBoire,
awfashionable' end well: known-resot. INO
entered it and walked roundthe room-with:*
step and air of pr&amp;nd defiatleep ,"Mengas4
on him, and abepped ftomihis-peth; His dyes
restidonievety one there! At length he saw
Don Rafael Jules, and.Andre1prombnading
togeh-in othe rotunda' of 'the Exehange,
smoking and conversing.  Ashe approsah-
ed hexheardihistowA nameHe advance;
they turned in their -walk fnd he confroted
Valde&amp;, O   g   sa    say
L  Villain! Take -that!&amp; he erid.striking
him violenityil the face~a Inthe -preseno
of this eo0n6Wq*. I proclaim ybI_ a ba ,ow-
ardand false'vilain! Draw ana~defendyouf-
"uPlorience 'drew' from his bosom ed1on'ggit-
tering knife, and Don Rafael attheseernease-
lient drew~a&amp;gistol,&amp;ndired. 7Thetrepotre-

"52

gifPIlRATAi

ss

I


54,                                 J :kfR   TA,

verberated through the-doniaof the, vast ire
tunda,;and the  ball shivered a, distant chan-
delier, The-next morhent: the ste l of the
infuriated and injured Soelpierced hi heart.
'Thus do I avenge my sistda honor. whom
thy foul-thoughts'had dared .to)turn to! he
dried, as the Spaird with ashrio ofCagony
fell to theoor weltering in hiblod.'C
fss! Now conf essbase-villain that this tale
is all a foul plot-the hellish iveAtion of,
thins own hatred land malice.'
DoRafael, fxedupon him. his dying eyes
burningwith malignancy and-saidin a strong
voteee
"Even my dyi   word shallnot avail thee.
What Itold thee Ibelieve true- Thou and
thjusister-are qiadroon's. 'Twas, no conspi-
racyof mine! Thus I defeat thee, slaved  :
_Saying these *ords, Which were uttered
rn''atohaeofinfernal malice,he sunk -away,
an'd after terrible; convulsions at length:,ex-
pired foaming at the mouth.
fIlThen amI a slave mideed,' echoed: :Flo-
tehceeclaspingt list bloody hands itin despair.
fJAid hope that 'twas this base man's con
spiracy.',-- .
He was instantly secured, but made no re-
sistance, bound and conveyed under escort
of alparty  of gendarmes to prison.  He had
now .no further. doubt of theo degradation of
hiscbirda. That DonRAdfael-had been: an
agent in a plot-wasithehope that buoyed him
.p v thatfheAhould die with - false-word on
hi tongue-he. coulpn ot believe.  But the
Spaniard's thalignity; -ind revenge Went:with
himi*even to the grave!;
IM.
When Louis aftereaving the courtireach-
ed the cabaret he found a person there In
-waitiM for him, with acabridlet. Jt! was
MJales Moreau with a hostile message from
-Trevett -Brentnal whose mask:he had torn off.
#1,am  ready, the.-anewered promtly.
Weapona-piatols! Distanee-4ive paees!
Time--one o'dldek to day! Place+the- o-
inan cenmtery Eastwall
mtrauier smiled' baved, ad. sphitg
ing iitOs cabiolet drove-oof while Louis
enteredthisaoo=i Here he blatednwhat had
ocvarled'at&amp; beurt andwas'notspaningiz
-histroledicdedos.. So'soon as Louijette-wn-
the ttlffair,;and th t~loreneamas the
-vmi*inshe uttered  excltrmation ofmingt
led pleasure and anger, and then fluentlyig;
tediouhi thd cObuveasadosheihtdveri
eard between Blenit nd'DiondLRfaiel  It
-at'one threwthti-pon thmewhole subject.
Lesiashowverjoye.i~ Hes~awatidnce ithe
t .fth matter in all its aspects. tThis
gave him eiiden~e-sand dnfi
-a 4t era u adf ~14esaid with

animation. 'Benito,  h! the sly agge,!
I hall0defeatthi  too!, I am_ happy, to
keow that-my nobleffmnd, M. Noelis o a
qqadroon-for 1 must confess I was staggered
by the story of the padre and the woman-
Then the beautiful Eme.but the less said
Ahout that the better,Loiisette'! lar glad,
and I know you are too, my good girl that
she is not, a quadrone!'  .
'Indeedi. amfortwo reasons' Sheeaat
be my rival npw-an4d it will make her happy
again!'
' dare-say, you think the first the better
reasonjuisette., But' this is noAire.to talk.
I haveagreateal to do    have to huntP p
Paul and Roque; for I ama resolvedto be on
board my schooner to-night.  If I aqceed
'you sauat cone after me, by the inner route
,o the Lalseand remain there with Roqqq's
wife at th  Rigoleta till 1 come in, for you
with the schooner!'  Louis, thenwent oat,
leaving Louisettaivery sad atthe,idea of-his
leaving her; and at the dangers he was aboit
to encounter. .
At half past, twelve he returned;in, &amp;Ca-
briolet with Paul:; and *ending her with tbe
cabaret, on some. pretence, :tok hiaspismis
from hiscase,and springing into the erriage
drove ofif in the direction of the cemetery +-
At the same moment came up another cna-
ret,itud Jules Moreau got out followed- by
Brentnal, j-e was pale and his co.untenanpe
filledwith rge whenhe eaw Lonis at whose
hards ]e had beenso ignominiously insulted
the evening before.
'So, sire you seerI have honOred you by ye-
gardingyou as a gentleman,' he said haugh-
tily. i
I appreciate the honor,'" answered Louis
ironically,,:
The distance was marked out--their posi-
tions -taken, and the wordwas about.toe
given when: Louis said in a c-ol, deliberate
voice-
'This qtarrel you seek to ,heal your own
honor I1seekit sir, and stared init, to avenge
the Iniult ou have this day offered to anpl4e
maiden The brother II have jsst seen in
prisor.:rom hir, seoundrel, I learneda.hat
whatryou had witten to thesiter. The fate
of Rafael Valdes be thine own.. He wisses
thee indhell; soItsen thee to, bearbiwr.fel-
ldshipL'Weare:radyforhemwor4 6:'
Ad-waigfiveni  Brentnal tremblingwi h
rage fired at thednatast-thewrd waI~in.
Lwodis was:alne and shot him through  e
hearts Heisprng high ine the ai ,fgl:,
without a word1 a corpseterethexeache444he
ground.                          no ,   -
b41 d

I'

I

be
VOS1CLU5MOM,
Taz morning following these events, the i
city was thrown int 'theW eatestexcitemeit
by the rumor that the piratieal schone- I
'The White Wing,' whjph'had been captur- w
ed a few days before anxd'lay alongside of the T
brig of war in the stream, had disappeared in ra
the night, no one knew whither! She was ai
not missed until day light, when the intelli- n
gence flew like wild-fire through the town.- w
To lhis was soon added another report equal- ol
ly startling; that Florence Noel had escaped lc
from prison ! Soon after came the intelligence P
that Benito Soto had disappeared leaving his a
cabard wide open all night !-then followed b,
the rumor that the quadroon Lucrece had left ei
her home the evening before with a stranger m
on business and had not been since heard w
from. Finally, to crown all, it was discover- i
ed by some suspicious persons who went to c
see, that the padre Fausto had disappeared
from his cell in the old convent !
The brig of war got underweigh in -pur-
suit of the schooner; and the town was rife
with a hundred various rumors and surmises.
To Florence was given the credit of running I
away with the schooner, after first murdering
the quadroon and the padre!
If we had room, we should be glad to fol- I
low in detail all these events. But as we must(
draw our chapter and story to a close, we canI
only say brieny, that Louis, the "Pirate of:I
The Spurs,' was the prime mover in all-these:
several'disappearances! That having assem-I
bled and instructed his men in the evening,I
he had succeeded in severally getting into his.
power Benito, the Padre, and the Quadroon
Lucrece, who, each one alone were decoyedI
by stratagem to the little vessel of Roque the
bojador and safely confined under the forward
deck. .That then Louis by heavy bribes got
admission to Florence's cell and prevailed
upon him to consent to escape, overruling his
objections, and showing him how, thereby,
he could prove to the world his legitimacy.-
He then by a large bribe prevailed on he'
gendarme who was guard over him, and who
proved to be our old acquaintance Jerome Ja'
cot, tojescape with him. The three-left the
prison without any obstacle, Jerome having
furnished Florence with a complete suit of
the gensdarmee' uniform. Before goingto the
little vessel of the bojador, Florence stepped
to see Emme. He would have pursuaded her
to escape with him ; but she plead the filial
'duty owed to their father. Florence admitted
the justice of this .duty ; and assuring her
that the whole story (as Louis had explained
to him) was a plot of Don Rafael's the priest

tini qdWfie a     th  h0!'e udeb O
"able toretirn 4nd proe'itt b.06, 'b "6
, tkidg tended&amp; leave padiduisetth
aisike1d'ith her *tloreifd  Lueti
Ltkedarinstant beneath the ivhidbwsdf the
otdl yhik   nainiaed   ine; and on, en
oved on towWrds the river, ayiu#,
-You shall Yt kioi*;'ndbl6'G rgine6 'that
am not unworthy of you! A few weeks
ill prove my honorable and unstained birth!'
!he bojador's pirogua with the three conspi-
tors on board,'and Louis, Forence, Jacot
nd twelve men approached silently the schoo-
er. Paul had already got one of the two
atebhaen on board of her in his favor; the
there they bound and- gagged and thrust be-
ow as they saw the pirue drifting down.-
aul had secretly'cast off all her lashin  but
single hawser. She was boarded in since,
Louis and his party, cut away, and suffer-
to drift down the stream,." After a few
minutes sail was made on her, and as the wind
was fresh they soon were flying wing and
.ing down the broad river rapidly leaving the
ity in the distance.
V
FouR weeks afterwards the Governor of
Lousiana received a letter from the Governor
General of Cuba, stating in substance as fol-
ows: that he held in prison there subject to
his demand threls prisoners; viz: a priest,
called Fausto; a quadroone, by the name of
Lucrece; and a deformed Spaniard called
Benito Soto ; who had confessed to a conspi-
racy in N. Orleans to defraud a certain. M
Florence Noel of his birthright.  That the
parties had been arrested by a friend of M.
Noel and conveyed to Cuba, for the purpose
of being there accused and imprisoned ;. and
that this person by art and threats not only
compelled their confession on board his ves-
sel; but obliged them to appear and confess
it. before the judicial authorities there
The demand was made. The conspirators
were brought to New Orleans and tried and
cndemned.. M. Nosl restored to his reason,
as if by a1special Providence, himself .con-
firmed their honorable birth.  Florence was
restored to honor and distinction.; and Geor-
gina who had proved herself faithful through
all, at length rewarded him for what he had
suffered by her hand; and a nobler couple
never knUeledbefore the hymueneal altar for
the priest'e blesing. Emme never recover-
ed the shoktiatshe ha-received.  he fa-
ded like a blighted flower, andas the flwers
began to wither iatumnn, she was gathered
to be transplanted wheie there iS perennial
spring; where flowers never fade' nor roses
wither!


56

FIR#.?fl A  I'vio

wardedI-Iouisptte' gitachment: by nas.jg esteemed both for his wit and talents. The
}er his wife; bp two feni of the seg tut other characters of our tale are hardly of saf-
*t4 he join.. with his; beautifulsebgeer thpi ficient interest to berecalled and disposed of
(grtunes pfs  uenasyrean Patraotegere, here; and we wiltherefore say to our rea-
we icasiosUyhear of Nim, as 0ging goo4ders, that we kindly thank them for their
se ice againstthe Brazillian user. Joel goodlie companie aard' bid them a very 'good
'1'rulock becanie a potegg of Fqrppce, and bye.
is now his private secretaryjnd ypung man              TE END.


  
             
         
       
   
