
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Mother Rewarded and the Son Reclaimed .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7297
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE MOTHER REWARDED AND THE SON RECLAIMED, 
               A TEMPERANCE NARRATIVE 
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        Many a hand that friendship plighted, 
                        Have I clasped with all delighted, 
                        But more faithful none can be, 
                        Than my mother's hand to me 
                     
                   
                  MONTOOMERY 
                
             
            
               PORTLAND: 
               WILLIAM HYDE & SON
             
            1851 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1851, By WILLIAM HIDE, In the Clerk's office of the District Court of Maine. 
            
               A. Shirley & Son, Printers.
             
          
          
             
            TO THE FRATERNITY OF TEMPERANCE WATCHMEN, Whose efforts in the glorious cause have been pecularly discrete and successful this little NARRATIVE OF FACTS, is respectfully dedicated by 
            
               THE PUBLISHERS.
             
          
       
      
         
            The mother rewarded and the son reclaimed 
             
                
                
               NARRATIVE. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "Love 
                              Steadfast through all things, near when most forgot, 
                              And with its finger of unerring truth, 
                              Pointing the lost way in thy darkest hour- 
                              One lamp-thy mother's love-amid the stars 
                              Shall lift its pure and changeless flame." 
                           
                         
                        WILLIS. 
                      
                   
                  WENDALL HARRIS was the son of honored parents and the associate of as lovely a group of boys, as ever sported on the village green. He possessed those qualities in childhood which endeared him to his companions, and as he grew in years his fine sensibilities and amiable feelings secured to him the affections of kindred hearts. The smile was on his face, and every feature of his countenance bespoke a virtuous and undissembled mind. But the first step in the downward progress of intemperance, is sometimes taken under circumstances replete with the most promising hopes, and the vulture often lights on his prey when least suspected. The intoxicating cup allures the idol of the household from the innocent and purifying pleasures of the domestic circle. The enemy will take the advantage of unsuspicious minds, and watch the opportunity to select his victims, for whom he would "weave the winding sheet," and at his pleasure lay them in turn of death. 
                   
                  The parents of Wendall acted under a true sense of their moral obligations, and pressed home upon the attention of their children, every lesson of wisdom and virtue. Under the paternal roof, he first heard the wise counsels of a father, and felt the influence of a mother's caution and advice. All young men are not thus favored; and having no parental restraint upon them, they have rushed on in the path of ruin at the sacrifice of personal, social and domestic blessings until they arc brought to see the result of their course and painfully to reflect that their own misery is self-inflicted. It is said and that in truth, that among the victims of the "fatal bowl," are found men possessing warm, generous and brave hearts. If so, then we may write for thousands the melancholy epitaph, "HOW ARE THE MIGHTY FALLEN!" 
                  But there are young men, and of the number was our friend W-- who had the example and the advice of parents, relatives and friends, which failed to rescue him from the hands of the Destroyer. There was nothing wanting to render his home pleasant. He was nurtured under the sweet and sacred influences of domestic life, which bind the members of a family in close and lasting friendship. But there are influences without-and sometimes within the hallowed walls of home which imperceptibly allure the unsuspecting youth, and in time blast the most fondly cherished expectations. Yes, the customs of society, both among the rich and the poor-the king and the peasant, the fashionable and the gay-the young and the old, have engendered the most destructive habits to the peace and comfort of man-to nil that, is noble, generous and pure in the bosom of humanity. Perhaps the parent has put the poisonous chalice to the lips of her lovely boy without the least suspicion that she was forging a dagger for her own bosom, and in future years with a heart corroded with grief, would be compelled to see her son the sport of the thoughtless, and herself the occasion of the bitter lamentation, "O Absalom! my son-my son Absalom, would God I had died for thee!" 
                  But the mother of W-- had no cause for reflecting upon herself. I have said she was kind, and affectionate, and sooner than have indulged herself or her family in the use of intoxicating drinks either at home or abroad, she would have sacrificed her right hand. And yet she lived when the feelings and usages of society were in fellowship with the social glass, and indispensable to the life and interest of social gatherings. She was a devoted advocate of total abstinence when the people and ministers used a "little wine" as the sign and seal of friendship, the test of hospitality-the bond of union, and a charm from which social meetings was supposed to derive their zest. 
                  Her son received, ever and anon, her timely advice; and in his most miserable hours he never lost sight of the mother he loved. The mother loved him. He heard her warning voice, and heard it, too, in the admonitions of conscience, which the greatest revelings could not stifle. But her warnings were given when temperance was not a household word, when the wretched enchantment of the bowl was felt m almost every dwelling, and 
                         
                           "The cup of joy went merrily round 
                           Among a band of brothers," 
                        
                      when there was no man redeemed from the miserable bondage of drinking, that was ready to stand in the midst of the overflowing tide of pollution, or breast the force of example in high places, and with a heart full of sympathy speak a kind word to an erring brother. The mighty river was rolling on; and rising higher, and threatening desolation to every smiling village, and sweeping before it the fairest flowers in community. And yet to the praise of a few, there was heard in the midst of the whirlwind and the storm, the "still small voice" of woman-a faithful talisman, powerful in its tones which was not uttered in vain. She saw what was the inevitable result of "regular and fashionable drinking"-what has been the death-knell of the fondest hopes which a parent's bosom could possibly cherish. But we must pass on to 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "Long, long be my heart with such memories filled, 
                              Like the vase in which roses have, once been distilled; 
                              You may break; you may ruin the vase it you will, 
                              But the scent of the roses will hang round it still" 
                           
                         
                        MOORE. 
                      
                   
                  WHEN young men arrive to the age of W--, when he began to acquire habits of intemperance, they gradually lose their relish for the pleasures of home. They expect to find higher enjoyments from other sources than those under which they have been trained and educated. The quiet pastimes of home are forgotten when the young man seeks to gratify his ambition and lofty spirit, among the scenes of folly and fashion. The young man seeks for enjoyment. The goal is before him; and on that, he fixes his eye-on that, his hopes centre. But disappointment comes at last, and the error of his way is seen in tears-heard in sighs, and painfully felt in a broken heart. 
                   
                  The home of W-- was still dear to him; and his mother's tender care for his welfare, was indelibly impressed upon his memory. To her he will attribute his first ideas of moral obligation-his sense of what constitutes true excellence in character. These were moments in the worst part of W--'s career when he would commune with himself on childhood days, and think over what he once was-and what he then enjoyed when he listened so eagerly to his kind parent as she related some pleasing anecdote, or read some useful book. Alcohol may prepare tenants for the almshouse and the hospital, reduce families to the extremity of human misery, and urge the young man forward to an early sacrifice of health and life; but it cannot take from the poor inebriate the power of reflection when in his sober moments, nor quench the flame of filial affection and gratitude which kindles up in his boson at the thought of maternal kindness. 
                  The ligament of true affection was never surrendered in reality. Yet the most affectionate son has ventured to trespass on parental wishes and to indulge his own musings and romantic project!. 
                  W-- was accustomed to spend his evenings at home-happy seasons in his earliest years. The family were a family of singers. W-- was a good musician, having a natural taste (for music, he acquired in early life sufficient knowledge of the claronet, to play familiar tunes, such as were sung by the family circle. His presence was indispensable. He was the key note on which every voice depended, for harmony and correct music. 
                  But W-- soon had other engagements and employed his evenings in company whose influence was directly opposite to that under which he had been educated from his infancy. The first step was now taken in his wayward course, which proved almost fatal to the brightest hopes which ever a parental heart cherished. It was easy to forget, for a time, the tender and faithful advice of parents-the reproof and warnings of friends when among the companions of an ale-house, and at places where the "treat" was a sign of friendship. The Temperance revival had not commenced; and there were none to rally around him at those places of resort where young men congregate, to rescue him from the devouring flames of alcohol. The Demon was then triumphing over broken-hearted wives, and the tears of famishing babes. The distiller and the vender were rolling in their ill-gotten gains, and the mass of society were drinking their flagons of wine, "careing not for the afflictions of Joseph." 
                  But how is it that one who had the greatest reason to be grateful for a kind mother could possibly requite that kindness, or forget those filial duties which a parent claims from her son. By what means are the dearest ties sundered, one of the happiest homes made sad, and the cheerful hearts of devoted, brothers and sisters caused to weep and lament? Who would be the cause of separating the family ligament, and for the paltry sum of a few dollars, tear from the mother's arms her darling boy? The ruffian, in the fury of his passion, will do it, and the voice of justice and of injured humanity cries loudly against him. And who is he that does no less a violent act, though not intentionally (only with longer process,) that supplies the fuel for the self-immolation of his victim? 
                  The Rumseller knows too well the process by which the young man can be allured from home-alienated from the heart which beats with the tenderest feelings for a child, and also by what means, love, virtue, friendship and fortune, may "be shorn even to the quick?" Those means, alas! how successful whenever they are employed-from the lowest groggery up to the spacious and brilliantly lighted saloon. The enchantment of the gaming table-what is it? He that has felt it knows it is there. The lover of games becomes spell-bound, hand and foot. It is there the first step is often taken which leads on to infamy and ruin. And there, with the social glass, the fatal chain is forged, link by link, which fastens the young man to the spot until he is ruined-money gone-character lost-and a weeping parent dishonored. Young Men, beware of the gambling table, and shun, as you would a venomous reptile, that FATAL BOWL. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  THE FIRST GLASS. 
                   
                     
                         
                           "Among a band of brothers 
                           The cup of joy goes daily round, 
                           Each shares the bliss of others: 
                           Sweet roses grace the thorny way 
                           Along this vale of sorrow; 
                           The flowers that shed their leaves to-day 
                           Shall droop and dio to-morrow." 
                        
                      
                   
                  MANY have learned, from painful experience, that "Wine is a mocker," and that it cannot be indulged in, without creating an appetite for stronger liquor, and among the young, the virtuous, and the fair, developing the evil consequences. "It was there" says W-- "I began to wander;" and it is there the enemy beguiles his prey. The temptation is sometimes presented in its most flattering light, robed in its most brilliant colors. 
                  I have seen the spacious saloon lighted up with a multitude of brilliant lamps-its walls lined with large and costly, mirrors; the floor covered with the soft thick velvet carpet; and on one side of the room, a row of cushioned seats, sofas and chairs; while the other side is furnished with every sort of intoxicating drinks from the most palatable cordial up to the strongest proof brandy. Every customer may be suited to his own taste. In the rear of the drinking apartment are the large marble tables. Here the card is shuffled-the dice rattled-while others have the privilege of passing the evening at the chequer-board. 
                  Here, says the young man to his acquaintances as he peeps into the windows, or puts his hand upon the knob of the door, here is a fine place for amusement; every thing is so GENTEEL-come, let us go in. They enter, not suspecting they are entering the road to ruin. They are now surrounded by every temptation; and the gentility of the circumstances under which the temptation is presented, forms a perfect apology for them, and an opiate to smother every monition of conscience. While looking at the beautiful things around them, charmed with the order and beauty and comfort of the room, two gentlemen call for something to drink; they are business men, of respectable standing in society-only call there never tarry long-business of more! importance to attend to. They drink and pass out. 
                  Why, says Charles, to his companions, this is a very fashionable place. Mr. D-- and Mr. F-- have just gone out, and they never visit any place which is not respectable. Come, let us take a glass of wine. They were now perfectly at home. Every restraint was broken when they perceived that the place was patronized by respectable wine-drinkers. 
                  The ice was now broken, and the principles of total abstinence under which W-- was educated, were now violated. 
                  Gambling was the next step. "Come," says a stout well-dressed man, as he taps the young stranger upon the shoulder, "come, we are just making up a small party at whist, suppose you take a seat with us; we shall soon be ready, just take a seat in the back room and amuse yourself with the papers for a few minutes. We have a bottle of excellent Madeira, supposing you taste of it-this way, gentlemen." 
                  "A very polite invitation," says W-- "and he appears to be a gentleman," says his companion, "let us go and join the company." "I never played whist," says W--; "I am perfectly ignorant of cards and dice; but I have no objections to taking a seat." They began to play-but not for money, only for amusement. It was a sufficient introduction for our young friends, who, from that time learned to shuffle cards and to throw skillfully the dice. 
                  The circumstances under which our friend W-- entered the saloon and sat around the card table and drank of the social bowl, are the same under which many other young men have commenced a dishonorable life. The potent draught, by degrees becomes more pleasant, and though not conscious of any evil results at the beginning of drinking, yet every draught increase the danger until he (young and unsuspecting) passes the line of safety, and ultimately, unless reclaimed, falls a captive to misery and crime. "Ah," says the slow, the moderate drinker, "I 've not yet reached the fatal point of danger." Confident of his own strength, and exulting in his own, liberty, and liking the reviving stimulus of a "little wine" as a beverage, he continues to drink until, to his utter surprise, he reaches the "fatal point of danger." And yet he drinks again, sure that he can stop when he pleases, and feels himself insulted when told by a friend that he will come to a drunkard's grave. 
                  O, that first glass! which passed so freely around among that virtuous and happy band of young men-as happy as the enjoyments of a pleasant home, or the devotion of fond parents could make them. They were bound to each other by the ties of friendship, and loved with strong parental affection. 
                  A change has occurred in their habits and their fortunes. The circle is broken; they meet by accident, or at random; their habits are irregular; the charms of friendship is broken, and in that once bright and intellectual countenance, is discovered only the mind of the fool-and to those in whose affections he confidingly trusted, becomes a loathsome object. The young man who reads these lines will remember the first glass may lead him on to the "fatal point of danger," when in future he will look back on the past-to his early days-and perchance recollect the very place where he was introduced to a train of evils which terminated in blasted hopes and ruined innocence. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                   
                     
                         
                           "The mournful tale 
                           That tells why he comes not, will make 
                           Thy heart to bleed, thy cheek turn pale: 
                           RUM 'finds no tie too strong to break.'" 
                        
                      
                   
                  THE relationship of W-- brought him into the company of intelligent young people. Agreeable in his manners, kind and affectionate in his disposition, and possessing a heart glowing with generous feelings, was always a welcome visiter. An attachment was formed between him and one of the young ladies of his acquaintances which resulted in an engagement, to be united at some future day in the nearest and dearest relation in life. She was the daughter of respectable parents, amiable, intelligent, and every way worthy of his confidence and affections. They were regarded by all who knew them, as a couple fairly mated, and with as bright prospects as ever a young heart could desire. 
                  As time passed on, they continued to enjoy each other's society and share in each other's affections. He would occasionally drink, but not to excess. It was however discovered by his friends that the habit of social drinking was increasing upon him. It was hoped, almost to a prediction, that the influence of her to whom he had pledged his affections, and whom he cherished with a true heart, would save him from pursuing the course he had commenced. There was every reason to expect it. She appealed to him by all the circumstances with which he was connected-his honor, his reputation-his all was at stake. With all fidelity and tenderness, she appealed to his youthful days, when life glided on like the placid river whose waters were undisturbed. 
                   
                  To his mother's tears which flowed in his behalf from a heart that felt for him with unceasing and unchanging love. She was unrivalled in tenderness and devotedness to him, and with all the forbearance of a devoted lover. She would forgive him "seventy times seven." He regarded her with much affection; and when he neglected her, it was not that he loved her LESS, but that he loved WINE more. 
                  She possessed a decision of character which she felt herself bound to maintain, both for his good and her own. Long, long did she forbear his follies and forgive his often violated promise, in hopes that her expectations would be realized, by yet seeing him decidedly temperate. Those fond hopes were blasted. And yet it was not until she had employed every argument and placed before him every motive, to induce him to abandon the cup, that she separated herself from him. That step was taken when her heart experienced the most painful sympathy and swelled to almost bursting, with emotions of pity, as she saw him rushing on to the full extent of intemperance. 
                  It is not our province to decide on the effect of this separation, as to the influence it had over the subsequent history of W--. It was hoped that a reformation would immediately follow, and that he would again regain the confidence of her whom be regarded in his sober moments, as his best friend. On this fact-that she was to him all, and more than he could expect-and that he loved her-was the probability of his reformation founded by his friends. 
                  But he was now left with less restraint than ever, and with more time to devote to the circle of his old acquaintances. With a generous heart and a social temper of mind, he secured the attention of kindred spirits. There was in him a want of moral courage to resist temptation. This disposition was not so much to gratify himself, as to oblige and make himself agreeable to others. It is often said of the victim of intemperance, "He was a noble youth; a generous soul." This was true of W--. His social feelings and generous disposition led him to express hospitality to others who loved the "flowing bowl," even to the sacrifice of the last farthing. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                   
                     
                         
                           "Vice o'er him holds its sway, 
                           And from his dark career 
                           The Mother try to win him, and her eye, 
                           Her dimm'd eye drops a tear." 
                        
                      
                   
                  A few months had scarcely elapsed before a very visible change was discovered in the habits and conduct of W--. Every thing which seemed once so agreeable in his general deportment and so pleasing in his manners, appeared now to have vanished, as though some vile enchanter had robbed him of his good name, and stripped him of every amiable virtue in his character. Parental hopes were blasted, and the kind and affectionate heart of S--, under the pressure of this calamity, began to droop and languish, like the blooming rose under the heat of the noonday sun. The tavern and the ale-house were the places of his resort. 
                  The mother of W-- was usually the last of the family that retired to rest. On her, devolved the superintendence of the affairs of the family. But the heart of that mother was often pained by the late returns of her son. The clock has struck ten, eleven, twelve, at night, while she anxiously waited his arrival. One right in particular, he returned home very late, under circumstances which led to the following conversation. 
                  MOTHER. It is very late, my son, where have you been at this hour of the night? 
                  W--. You are mistaken, mother, the clock has just struck ten. Has father returned! 
                  MOTHER. You know your father is never form home at this hour; and why do you say it is only ten o'clock, when it is nearer midnight-tell me where have you been? 
                  W--. I am not well, mother. Don't ask me where I have been. You know I keep good company; J-- and I took a walk out of town this afternoon. I suppose it is rather later than usual. Is father at home? 
                  MOTHER. Your father feels very unhappy about you. 
                  W--. What did he say because I left the shop this afternoon? 
                  MOTHER. I never saw him appear so restless about you as he has appeared to be this evening. I am fearful you are not in good company. 
                  W--. Mother, I am not well; I must go to bed; I'll make it all right in the morning; I did not expect to find you up; don't be troubled about me; let me have a light. 
                  The mother saw that he was evidently not himself, and before the interview of that night closed, W-- acknowledged the cause of his aberration from duty, and e're he retires to his chamber he exclaims, "O my head! my head!" 
                   
                  The reader can form a faint idea of the feelings of W--'s parents, on seeing their son under circumstances of this character, which to them was a painful evidence that he was fast progressing towards the drunkard's miserable destiny. W-- would not knowingly deceive his friends. His conscientious heart would not allow him to conceal the truth, when he felt himself convicted of his guilt. Under the blessing of God, he was indebted to his parents for the faithful lessons of wisdom and virtue in which he was early taught. His deep sense of responsibility to them and his tenderness of conscience, as to right and wrong, it was impossible not to admire. 
                  The several members of the family never lost sight of W--. They loved him with a pure affection; and he felt that he not only injured himself, but violated the sacred and mutual duties of brothers and sisters. They were more closely united than casual friends; they shared each other's joys and sympathized in each other's sorrows, and were alike interested in all the pleasant scenes which clustered around the happy circle of which W-- was a member. 
                  Surrounded as he was by these sacred influences, the reader can judge of the painful feelings which he experienced whenever he occasioned any afflictions among those whom he loved and esteemed, and who had the highest claims, next to his Creator, upon his confidence and affection. But alas! there were charms in the wine cup and in the company of those who loved the excitements of the flowing bowl. There it was the bond of union-and there, in the midst of merry scenes and glee songs, he lost sight of his obligations and increased a thirst for drinking which brought upon him, at intervals, delirium tremens, burning fever, and almost death. 
                   
                  To relate all the painful passages or W--'s experience and history, from this period up to his reformation, would occupy more room than our limits will admit. We shall refer to a few scenes in his life which are connected with a mother's solicitude for her son and also with his timely escape from an early and dishonorable grave. 
                  W-- was in the habit of visiting a certain place in S-- street, where, doubtless, many a youth may trace the first step of a miserable existence. His mother, after waiting with painful suspense form his return home, wrapped her cloak around her (for it was a cold chilly night) and made her way towards the place where she had some suspicions that he might be found. On her way, she stopped to inquire of the watchmen, not "what of the night." but if they had seen her son. Receiving no information from them, she hastens on, resolved not to return until she had found him who was, at this period more especially, the object of her deepest solicitude. She arrived at the place, and looking through the window, she saw among the crowd of rum-drinkers, the form of her well known boy. She enters, and with all the feelings which such circumstances would naturally induce, she addressed the owner of the establishment; she appealed to him by the condition of her son,-"Look at him and see what you are doing by your vile traffic." She appealed to him by the long and dismal catalogue of CRIME and WOE and DEATH-to the fair, the young and the beautiful, who had been sacrificed, by the Rumseller's wicked vocation. She appealed to him by the tears of the widow and the orphan, which flowed as freely as from her own eyes, while she stood by the side of her son, insensible to the affections of his mother, and insensible sible to what was passing. And what was the result of this appeal? Just what may be expected from men who invite and tempt the young to drink for filthy lucre's sake,-"I shall sell my rum to any who will buy." 
                  The mother turned away, as she took her son by the arm to return to her home, leaving the Rumseller to his own reflection, with a prediction that he would have to REPENT of his deadly traffic 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                   
                     
                         
                           "Revelries- 
                           In banquet halls; 
                           Such scenes a blight impart 
                           To cloud the brain, and rend the heart, 
                           To crush the brightest hopes of youth, 
                           To quench the light of moral truth." 
                        
                      
                   
                  IN the midst of the deepest afflictions the human heart is not left without consolation. The mother of W-- never ceased to cherish hope, that at some day she would witness, to the joy of her heart, the complete reformation of her son. But that time had not yet arrived. Her tears were not all shed, not her tender and faithful pleadings all made in behalf of him who was the subject of her morning and evening prayers. 
                  W-- continued his habits of drinking, and would continue to share his last shilling with the band of revelers, who never ceased to take advantage of his weakness when under the excitement of alcohol, to obtain the means from him to satisfy their own thirst for intoxicating drink. W-- was a workman in his business, and whatever he began to make, he finished in a manner that was unsurpassed by any man of his trade. His money was well earned, but it was rapidly and foolishly expended, with but few exceptions. He had now arrived to that age when young men begin to act for themselves and lay their plans for future prosperity and eminence in the world. It was at that time when high inducements were hold out for men in almost every profession to locate in the West, that W-- projected for himself the plan, by which he vainly imagined rising prosperity to himself. His fondly indulged hopes might all have been realized had he left his native city under the redeeming influence of the pledge. 
                  But it was otherwise. While he was anticipating success and preparing to leave the paternal roof, he continued to quaff deeper and deeper at the bowl, and as often as ever, was he borne to his chamber in a state of intoxication. The tears of parents, the advice of sorrowing brothers and sisters, and the remonstrance of friends were ineffectual in persuading him to relinquish the cup. His promises to amend were as often broken as they were made. 
                  At length the day for his departure arrived, he bade his acquaintances and relatives an affectionate farewell, who gave him the strongest assurance of their deep interest in his welfare, and their unceasing solicitude for his prosperity. 
                  The conduct of W--, aside from his habits of occasional, excessive drinking, was always marked with integrity and honesty of purpose. This in connection with his reputation as a workman, secured to him friends; and in the young and green city to which he was destined, he obtained a situation worthy of his acceptance, and in connection with a respectable and an esteemed citizen. This circumstance gilded the scene, which otherwise would have been dismal indeed to parental hearts, with the cheering hope that the change of location might favorably affect his habits and character. 
                  But there was the miserable fashion of drinking-the delights of wine-the social meetings-the delights of wine-the social meetings-the convivial board; and in a short time W-- formed new acquaintances on whom the growing custom had fastened its chains and with whom he could had fastened its chains and with whom he could drink, freely or sparingly, as the occasion required. His employer acted towards him like a father, and with tears besought him to abandon the intoxicating cup. W-- had secured his affection, respect and confidence, and he could not cherish the thought of ever seeing him sacrificed on the altar of Bacchus, or having him spend his hard earned wages for that which had ruined thousands, and 
                         
                           "Ravished 
                           All health, all comfort of a happy life." 
                        
                     
                   
                  But W-- had not gone so far as to lose his sense of moral obligation, or to forget the home of his childhood-his "early days-days of innocence and joy." And the promise which his friends made to him on the day of his departure from home was faithfully kept. Letter after letter came to him, written and signed in the well-known hand. The thought of home-of parents-of brothers and sisters-would steal upon him, and tears would involuntarily start from his eyes, as he read those precious letters in which his father and mother space words of tenderness and love. The influence of those letters was for a season visible in his correct habits and sober life; and had there been at that time the same estimate made of the pledge which has been in later years, the result of a mother's appeals might have been visible in the earlier reformation of her son. But his love of strong drink rather increased than diminished, and under the influence of his long indulged habits, he continued the occasional victim of intemperance. 
                  In that city W-- had an elder brother whose residence there at the same time with him for a few years, was a source of relief to the anxious parent, as she well knew that the influence of the elder over the younger brother, would be salutary. At length, a letter was received informing the parents that there elder son was languishing under a disease, which it was feared might prove fatal. That letter contained the request of the son, that if possible, their mother might come on immediately. As it was not convenient for both parents to leave home at the same time, it was decided that in view of al the circumstances it would be most convenient for the mother to go. It was a journey of more than a thousand miles, and she had been unaccustomed to travel alone. But there were her two eldest sons, one on the sick bed and the other exposed to the temptations of the city. In a few hours she was prepared for the journey, and started alone for the far West-travelling by night and by day-by railroad, steamboat and stage until she reached the home of her eldest son. The joy which her children felt on seeing their mother, can be expressed only by the meeting itself of parent and children. The elder son, B--, who had for weeks been confined to his room, began to recover; and W-- spent most of his leisure time in the company of his affectionate parent, endeavoring to interest her by the passing scenes of life, and managing to conceal from her the extent of his indulgence at the social glass. 
                  In a few weeks, the duties of her household called upon the mother to return. Those few weeks were faithfully improved in ministering to the comfort of her sick son, while at the same time she was imparting the best advice to W--. On leaving for home, she commended them to the care of her heavenly Father; gave them her parting benediction; and as they hung upon her neck, bade them adieu. 
                  We must pass over the interim of a few successive months to the period of W--'s history when he resolved to return to his native city. He returned almost pennyless. A young man, without a family. receiving regular wages at the rate of fifty dollars per month, might be expected to have accumulated a small capital with which to establish himself in business. But not so with young men who tamper with the cup of intoxication, and who squander their earnings to gratify an unnatural passion. This sad lesson our friend W-- had to learn from sad experience. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                   
                     
                         
                           "The deed is done, 
                           Point to his name-as tears flow fast. 
                           While he, the pledged one, stands redeemed at last." 
                        
                      
                   
                  AFTER W-- had returned to his father's house, he found himself under the same influences as before his absence. There was still the restraining power of maternal affection, together with timely cautions and tender admonition of affectionate sisters and sincere friends. But there was also the same thirst for drinking burning in his bosom; this together with old associates, who were ever lingering in his pathway, inviting him to pledge, at the glass, his safe return, baffled every effort made for his reform, and sent despair into the yet bleeding and lacerated hearts of his parents. His narrow escapes from a sudden and awful death when under the influence of liquor, his fiery imaginations, and awful deliriums, are still fresh in the memories of those who knew him. We must spare our feelings in the description. 
                  It was the first glass-herald of misery! on which our malediction rests, for its undoing all that God, a mother, and his best friends had done. It was that which stripped him of all moral loveliness when in the vigor and prime of youth, and when in the days of innocence and beauty he secured the love and esteem of her who anticipated being his honored bride. Led on from one step to another, he was shorn of a clear and active mind, until by the foolishness of his course, he returns like the prodigal to his Father's house, without a penny he could call his own. 
                  It is said, "if it were not for hope, the heart would break." The mother of W-- was almost broken-hearted. Years of incessant toil passed over her head when she hoped to see the fruit of that seed, so early planted by her own hand, ripening into harvest. But alas! her expectations, when they should have been realized, were awfully blighted, and hope, long, LONG deferred began to expire like the glimmering wick in the socket. There was her son-the child next to her first born, whose presence once lit up her countenance with joy, and whose music gave an in inspiring charm to the family circle, who was blessed with a heart once glowing with tender and pure emotions, NOW standing before her the pitiable victim of intemperance. 
                  We have said that HOPE had almost departed from the mother of W--. Yes, it had well nigh gone, when an unexpected event occurred in his history. A change began to be visible in his habits, and hope again revived in the hearts of many who were ready at his return to sobriety and virtue, to greet him with a cordial welcome, to clothe him with the best robe, and to rejoice in his salvation from the drunkard's destiny. The change was not radical or final; but it was enough to kindle up that hope which had now nearly expired in a mother's bosom, and which was never "clean gone," even in the darkest passages of his life. He appeared at this time to be, as it sometimes is said, "on the mending hand." He was earlier at home than usual-more steady to his business, and more trim in his general appearance. 
                  About this time he became acquainted with a young lady, who proved to be to him a suitable companion. The former young person of his acquaintance had, during his absence from home, married a gentleman of virtuous habits, and of respectable standing in society. W-- was now determined in his choice, and in a short time was united in marriage to E--. His young and amiable wife endeavored to keep every thing agreeable and pleasant about home. If he returned late, she spake kindly to him; and in all his delinquencies in duty as a husband, she murmured not, but patiently hoped for the best. 
                  A few weeks after his marriage, he relapsed again into his former habits. Home was neglected, his forbearing and patient wife forgotten, and the affairs of the house-hold assumed a chilling aspect. 
                  W-- promised better things as the tears rolled down his cheeks when recollections of the past crowded upon his mind, and he thought of his mother's prayers, and tears, and counsels, and when he looked upon his patient wife whom he had promised to love protect and cherish. 
                  The mother of W-- still cherished the hope of his reformation. By what means it would be accomplished, she could not foresee; but there was the impression, indelibly fixed in her heart that he would, at some future day, abandon the habit of drinking, and by a sober and industrious life, reward her for all her anxieties and never-ceasing solicitude for his welfare. 
                  The reformation which began at Baltimore, reached her ears about this time, and every one was talking about the Washingtonians, and the influence they were exerting, by the power of the pledge in connection with the thrilling tales of their own experience. The mother of W-- eagerly watched the movements of these men, as they were chronicled in every paper and borne on every breeze. Ascertaining for the first time where they assembled, she goes to her son and kindly invites him to accompany her to the meeting. W-- loved his mother; but on that night he excused himself for not complying with her request. She goes alone, and after hearing the reformed men speak of the blessings of the pledge, and tell the unvarnished history of their own experience, she resolved to leave no means untried to bring her son under the influence of these men. She felt this to be the last resort for the reformation of W--; and knowing that his heart was not insensible to the melting appeals of kindness and love, and that the voice of these reformers could not plead in vain, she brought before her son every motive and every argument to induce him to accompany her to the Washingtonian meetings. At last W-- gave his mother his consent, not that he would sign the pledge, but that he would oblige her by attending the meetings. 
                  The mother could hardly wait for the evening to arrive-such was her anxiety to have her son come under the influence of the living voice of a reformed man. That evening, Mr. H--s was to address the audience. The mother watched the timepiece, which was suspended on the wall of the parlor, that they might be at the meeting in good season to secure a seat where W-- might hear every word that fell from the lips of the speaker. The hour for meeting arrived, and taking the arm of W--, with hasty steps they both joined the multitude of villagers who were now thronging to the meeting. 
                  In a short time the house was filled to overflowing. Many were there who were still held fast by the strong bands of Alcohol, and others who had been free from the bondage for a short time only. There were the old tipplers and the companions of W--, looking at each other as if they were about to be taken by storm. The speaker arose-every eye was fastened upon him, and as he gave the details of his own sad experience, every eye was suffused with tears; a chord was touched which vibrated in every heart. No man could have spoken more tenderly, more effectually, than did the speaker more on that memorable night which witnessed the triumph of moral power-kind words, persuasive eloquence, over minds which had became, spell-bound to intemperance. As the speaker closed his address, he invited the unpledged part of his audience to come forward and give their signatures. W-- arose from his seat and pressing through the crowd, made his way to the desk, and in the presence of these who had long known him, and in sight of his weeping but rejoicing mother, wrote out his name in full, with the solemn declaration, that he would never again use intoxicating drinks. That pledge remains unbroken to this day. From that moment, W-- was in all respects a new man; and from that period he has maintained a virtuous and sober life. His parents are now honored and rewarded for their unceasing solicitude in his behalf. His wife, beloved and esteemed by her husband, wipes out the past, and shares in the peace and comfort of domestic life. Her three little boys, like olive plants around her table, welcome the presence of a kind and intelligent father. And, 
                         
                           "By temperance, joys all round his dwelling-place grow, 
                           Succeeding dark storms like Heaven's bright bow." 
                        
                     
                   
                
             
             
                
               THE CUP OF COLD WATER. 
               BY T. S. ARTHUR. 
               HENRY GREEN had been a most abandoned drunkard, and, in the years of his sad decadence, had shamefully wronged and abused his family. But in a lucid moment, he perceived. with startling distinctness, the upon the very brink of which he was standing, and started back therefrom. 
               It was early in the fall of the year when Green took the pledge. Through the winter he had worked industriously; and as he could earn good wages, his income had given his family very many comforts. He had not been much tempted of his old appetite during the cold weather; but with the fervent heat of summer, the slumbering desire awoke. 
               Green was a carpenter. Early in the spring, a gentleman offered him a good contract for putting up two or three frame buildings, which he gladly accepted; and, as the lot upon which his house stood was large, he erected a shop thereon. 
               About eleven o'clock one day-it was a hotter day than usual-Green's thoughts were dwelling, as was now too often the case, upon the "refreshing glass," once so keenly enjoyed. A little way from his shop, though not in view, was a tavern, the bar-room of which, memory was picturing to the eyes of his mind with tempting distinctness. He had often been there in times past-often drank there until thought and feeling were lost. He saw, in imagination, the rows of alluring decanters, with their many colored contents; he heard the cold ice as it rattled in the glasses; he almost felt the cold beverage upon his lips. So absorbed did he at length become, that he paused in his work, and leaned over his bench his eyes half closed, like one in a dreamy reverie. 
               It was a moment upon which his future, for good or for evil, hung trembling in an even balance that a hair might turn. 
               For as long as five minutes did Henry Green stand leaning over his workbench, a picture of the neighboring bar-room distinctly before his mind, while he was conscious of an intense thirst-that it seemed as if nothing but a glass of mixed ice and liquor could possibly assuage. 
               With a deep drawn breath he at length raised himself; the straggle that was going on in his mind more than half decided in favor of self-indulgence. 
               "Papa!" spoke a low familiar voice by his side. 
               Green started and turned suddenly. A child not over four years old, stood by him-a fair child, with a countenance full of innocence and affection. She held a tin cup in both her little hands. 
               "Have a drink of cold water, papa?" 
               "Yes, dear," replied the father, in a low voice that was unsteady from the rush of sudden emotion, and he caught the cup from the child's hands, and raising it to his lips, drank it eagerly. 
               Instantly the picture of the bar-room with all its allurements, fled from the mind of Green. He was a man again, in the integrity of a firm purpose. His child, led to him by the hand of Providence, had saved him. The cup of cold water had fully quenched the violence of his burning thirst; and he was no longer under temptation. 
                
               "Thank you, dear!" he murmured, as he lifted his child up in his arms, and kissed her, tenderly. 
               "Shall I bring you another cool drink after awhile?" asked the little one, as she pressed her father's checks with both her hands. 
               "Did any one tell you to bring me the cup of water?" asked Mr. Green. 
               "No, sir. But I thought you would like a cup of cool drink," innocently replied the child. 
               "Yes, dear, bring me another drink after awhile." Then kissing the little angel who had been the means of saving him when about to fall into temptation, he replaced her upon the ground, once more turned to his work; and as he bent his body in labor, mused thus: 
               "I did not think of the water when I felt that intense desire for a glass of liquor-it did not seem to be what I wanted. But the cooling draught sent me (by Heaven, I might say,) so opportunely, has quenched the morbid appetite, and I feel it no longer. Water, pure, health-giving water, you are all I need to give entire strength to my good resolutions! When the old desire comes again, I will drown it in clear, cold water. I feel safer now. There is a medicine for the inebriate's craving appetite, and it is WATER. Freely will I use it! THANK GOD FOR WATER." 
               "Yes, water is the medicine that cures the sickly craving for strong drink. Let the reformed man keep this ever in his thoughts, and the moment he feels the old desire, drown it as did Henry Green, in pure cold water. Let him do this, and he is safe. He should watch the beginnings of thirst, and be quick to allay the uneasy sensation, lest he, all unawares, be led into danger. 
             
             
                
               TEMPERANCE ANECDOTE. 
               REV. THOMAS P. HUNT once sent a notice to a place where he was not personally known, that he would lecture on a particular evening. On arriving, he put up at a tavern. At the supper table, he asked the landlord "If there was any thing new going on, at which a stranger would be amused." 
               "No, nothing in particular," was the reply, "unless it be a rascally temperance lecturer, named Hunt, is to hold forth on that subject to-night." 
               "Ah, you intend to go, of course-don't you, landlord? You are the very one to expose the falsehoods of Hunt's statements." 
               "I am no public speaker; but if I was, nothing would be easier than to refute him." 
               "Well, then come along, and let us hear what he what he has to say. If you don't feel able to give Hunt a tug, I'll try him myself! I shall like the fun of such an entertainment for the evening!" 
               The landlord had conceived a great admiration for his guest's tongue, and readily embraced the proposition to go to the temperance meeting with his companion. 
               The temperance men were in great trepidation at the non-appearance of Mr. Hunt, no one suspecting the diminutive stranger in the least. At last the President of the Society arose and apologizing for the disappointment, made a speech, the edge of which, no doubt, was a little sharpened by the known presence of the landlord. 
                
               After this, he gave out an invitation to any one in the house to advocate or oppose temperance. 
               "Now is your time," whispered the landlord, giving his hump-backed friend a jog, "give it to them roundly." 
               Forthwith he rose, and every body looked at him with surprise and painful expectations. He said, in the blandest tones, that this friend the landlord had invited him over to hear Hunt, and had expressed that he should say a word or two on the question. He hoped the audience would indulge him, although a stranger, and introduced by a liquor-seller. 
               The very way in which he pronounced the word "liquor-seller," a very favorite phrase with him, made both the landlord and all the rest start as if a red hot bolt had dropped among them. This was settled, however, by his quiet way of setting forth the advantage a rum-dealer confers on the community. 
               This calm was a very delusive one for our poor landlord, as his advocate's tones deepened into the sharpest irony, and set forth a multitude of horrid acts issuing from the bar-room. The effect was increased by his peculiar intonations in repeating the word "liquor-seller," in which the seemed to concentrate more contempt and horror, than any man living. All this time the was ostensibly pleading the landlord's cause, but in a very amusing way, since every one present was convulsed with laughter. Scenes from his own bar-room were repeated by his advocate in such a way as to present him in a most unamiable light. 
               Long before his speech was finished, people began to surmise that the landlord's lawyer must be their expected lecture. As for the tavern-keeper, he left the house in a great hurry when the meeting was over, and the next morning when Mr. Hunt went for his horse, he found him in the road and the landlord holding him. 
               "You old sinner," said he, "take your horse. I won't charge you any thing. Only don't come back again, and I'll forgive you." 
             
         
       
   
