
    ----CITATION----
        Sedley, Henry, (1835-1899). Marian Rooke, or, The Quest for Fortune .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7729
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Marian Rooke, or, The quest for fortune 
            
                  MARIAN ROOKE; OR, ThE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.  By HENRY       SEDLEY. ... I met a fool i' the forest, A motley fool; a miserable world! As I do live by food I met a fool; Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun, And rai'd on Lady Fortune in good terms; In good set terms, and yet a motley fool. "Good morrow, fool," quoth I! " No, sir," quoth he, CallI me not fool till lheaven hath sent me fortune." And thereby hangs a tale.   NEW YORK:  1860.    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, BY HENRY D. SEDLEY, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the nitedStates for the Southern District of New York. A. S. q. BEMAN CO.  92 AND 94 EAG3D STRBET, NEW YORK.   MARIAN R0OKE: OR THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.  BOOK THE  FIRST.  CHAPTEU I. FAR beyond the tossing Atlantic,-far beyond that chain of blue mountains which early settlers once thought the ultima thule of white encroachment,-far beyond the turbid stream whose vast dimensions make sea-coasts of its shores, and bear the spoils of a continent to the Gulf,-aye, and even far beyond that stern range of once impassable Rocky Mountains, the ever- restless Anglo-Saxon has pushed his way, until there is scarcely a streamlet he has left unexplored, scarcely a square mile he has left untrodden. To speak of change in connection with America seems idle now, for the words have become all but synonymous. And yet these mutations, so far as they are connected with the occu- pation of fresh territory, must, through physical necessity, come to an end; the swifter the racer the sooner he comes to his goal and the rapidity of a nation's growth bespeaks an early maturity, if not a premature decay. There are those who may find abundant significance in the fact that all of the many vast tracts belonging to the United States which had undergone ter- ritorial organization, became permanently settled during the present decade. There were no more lands,-none at least in the direction of the setting sun,-to wrest from the unwilling savage, no more to conquer from the weaker neighbor; the ex- citing progress had come to an end at last, for the extraordinary people, who for an eventful century had been struggling, fight-    4 . MARIAN ROOKE; OK,  ing, and floating their way westward. There was nothing fiunher to be accomplished by those who had moved their Ra- tional boundary from the Alleghanies to the Paifie h Fifteen years ago it was not so. There were then far reach- inr spaces, where the elk and -the antelope could feed in peace, and the bison still roam undisturbed. Spaces where no human  beings save bands of the thin and scatteredtribes of Sioux,  Pawnees, and Apaches ever found their way to break with rude chase or ruder battle the solitude of nature Spaces where we may suppose that for ages and ages back no sounds save those of nature's own everlasting processes had interruptedthe solemn stillness. And these tracts migrht to-day have been equally -silent might have been yet unoccupied, or, as some vacant and s -'g   ":^  "tewile   mn  u o nt would have it, yet unpolluted by the white man, but for one thing, which since 1492 has been working such wongaous efects upon mankind and their habitation,--the potent agent of discovery. The same irresistible lure which rought the fall of Monte- zuma and the Incas,-the sad possession which plunged Mexico  and Peru into a sea of troubles whence they have never alto- gether 'emerged, -has prematurely developed and populated these occidental wilds which, by a      82ua poes and makn l allowance for a prodigious immigration, would otherwise have remained virgin for another half centumy. When the news reached the Atanic States, in 1849, of Cap- tain Sutter's discovery, with the subsequent report that portions of the soil of California were literally spangled with gold, a rush ensued for the favored region, such as scarcely ever has occurred in history. Some crowded on board steamships bound for the Isthmus of Darien, with intention to cross to Panama, and again take ship to San Francisco. Some, with more patience or fewer Idollars, contented themselves with sailing ships going by the circuitous passage ofthe orn. Some, and these later includ- ed many a bold fiontiersman, with plenty of pluck, but often- times no money at all, unable or unwilling to buy transport by sea, betook themselves to the more-hazardous and more adven- turous resource of crossing the plains. It is true that nearly fifty years before such an exploit had been attempted and performed. Americans, familiar with the annals of Congress, and few of them are not, knew that in 1803, "Captain Meriwether Lewis, of the 1st Regiment of In- fantry, was appointed, 'with a party of men, to explore the river Missouri, from its mouth to its source, and crossing the highlands by the shortest portage, to seek the best water com-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUE.          5 munication thence to the Pacific ocean; and Lieutenant Clark was appointed second in command.'"  But this expedition, as well as others which succeeded it, besides being heavily armed, well disciplined, accompanied by skilful guides and trappers, and under government authority, accomplished, as was intended, most of its journey by water, a method of transit presenting many advantages over those whose sole aim was that of getting as quickly as possible from one point to another. The pilgrims of '49 sought only to get at the Californian gold, and cared little about the navigable facilities of the Missouri and Columbia rivers, or the flora and fauna to be found upon their banks. Thus they attempted short cuts, seeking to make their course coincide as nearly as possible with a parallel of latitude from their point of departure. Sometimes they succeeded, to the benefit of those who come after;- but often in such efforts, they paid the last penalty for the'ir enterprise, and perished miserably in sterile waterless expanse or freezing mountain pass; so that not long ago there were tracks, marked by the whitening bones of their first discoverers, which did sad service for later adventurers, who closely followed them as guides; a ghastly remembrancer of the episode in the Babes in the Wood, save that now there were no unthinking or pitying robins to cover or remove the relics of those who had gone before. Some of these unfortunates had perished of hunger and thirst; for although in those days there was no lack of game in certain places, yet in the heart of the continent there are long stretches of country divided by no water-courses, and where, if agriculture ever flourishes hereafter, it must be with the aid of extensive ir- rigation.- In the dry season these stretches are utterly destitute of water, and therefore as empty of fur or feather as Sahara itself Into these inhospitable tracts, sometimes by miscalcula- tion of their position, sometimes to avoid hostile Indians, way- farers would stray and wander about until exhaustion forced them to lie down and-die. There were also many cases where trains would be attacked and captured by the savages, whose numbers, now yearly decreasing, were then formidable, and who, possessing great numbers of fleet horses, were often able to gather in such force as to overcome resistance however brave, and almost invariably butchered whoever might have survived the fight. All these dangers had been evaded by a little caravan, which, on a bright afternoon in June 1850, was slowly descending the last slopes which lead down firom the Rocky Mountains on the further side of the South-west Pass. There were four large wagons, or ox-carts of the sort used in the western country,   6          MARIAN ROOKE; ORB with huge wheels, and tall canvas tops. Each of these vehi- cles was drawn by oxen, which, albeit they showed signs of a heavy journey, were yet in tolerable condition. The third in the line was somewhat the larger of the four, and, in truth its tent-like cover sheltered what constituted an apartment of very fair proportions, and which, as we shall see, was capable of af- fording no little comfort to its occupants. At the head of the column rode a large sinewy man of fifty, who bestrode a power- ful mule, and who was constantly scrutinizmng-notwithstanding the rays of the sun which were slanting directly athwart his face-the sweep of plains and valleys which lay below. In his immediate rear, and in front of the wagons, walked pensively about a dozen head of cattle, on either side of whom therewere a couple of men mounted on horses of the plains; while be- hind the wagons again rode half-a-dozen more, with rifle on shoulder, forming the end of the train. For many weeks had the travellers been pressing their way towards the west. They had traversed monotonous plains, seemingly interminable, whose arid surfaces bore sca'cely any vegetation but bushes of wild sage and the more obnoxious prickly pear. They had crossed innumerable water-courses, fringed with the cottonwood and the willow, sometimes by ford- ing, sometimes by rafting, sometimes by horse-ferry constructed of their own resources. They had climbed many a steep hill, each like the other, with unvarying crests of cedar, pine, and wild mahogany.: They had camped in many a little timber "island," whose welcome shelter and security in the otherwise unbroken plain invited their weary feet to tarry for the night. But, although they had experienced vicissitudes, had lost some of their cattle had encountered mnany Indians, and had more than once been short of water, the little band had been spared graver disaster, and had lost none of their number by violence or disease. Their immunity was, no doubt, partly due to good fortune; but their numbers and somewhat formidable appear. ance had likewise been serviceable, for they were a powerful. ' looking body of men, and mustered over a dozen rifles. More. -over, the consequences of some of their recent acts of murdei and plunder had begotten among the tribes of the plains s wholesome dread of their "Great Father" at Washington, ani uncomfortable doubts as to the length of his arm The passel of the great mountain range had become, under these circum stances, the most critical portion of the overland route; the distance from the settlements, and the all but impossibility o tracing out offenders, combining to multiply their dangers -    I'    i            THE QUEST FOR FO RTUNE.        7 No wonder, then, that those who crossed the plains should be delighted when they had left the great central chain of the Rocky Mountains behind them. The man at the head of the column turned in his saddle as if to escape for a moment the glare of the falling sun, and gazed at the scene behind him. He gazed upon a countless succession of hills, mere swells at first of red and brown, with clumps here and there of hardy redwood and scrawny mahog- any, the foliage touched ever and anon with a glint of gold. Further off; as the panorama receded, the swells sharpened into points and crags crowned with bristling pines,' and broken with masses of granite and flint, all bathed in hues of various purple. Furthest yet, but with numberless gradations between, rose the solemn, dark, blue peaks of the central range, crested with snow, which, suffused with the oblique rays of the sun, shot forth all manner of radiant colors. The spectetor saw no more of earth beyond, nothing but the pure, delicate blue of the approaching evening; a background, indeed, of the same color as the mountains, and yet so wonderfully in contrast. 'The man gazed at the vista for a while, not altogether uncon- scious of its beauty, and then suddenly gave vent to a cheery shout: "Hurrah, boys! We've passed the wust of it! We're gittin' out o' the foot-hills, and to-night we'll sleep west o' the mountains!" A responsive cheer broke from the men nearest the speaker, and those behind, readily guessing its purport, without quite catching the words which inspired it, took up the cry and cheered until the welkin rang again. As the echoes subsided, a voice. far away to the west took up the cry once more, and sent it back in tones which, although distant, were distinct and clear ; and directly after this again was heard the ringing bay of a dog. "That's Luke!":said the pioneer of the column. And "( That's Luke!" said the cattle-drivers behind, and the horsemen in the rear of the train. And "That's Luke," was repeated by two or three feminine voices, whilst their owners' heads were thrust forth firom the wagon the third in the line. "I hope he's got some venison," said one on the right. "I'm blamed tired of hung beef and pemmican for more'n a week, and only half a pint o' whiskey a day." "Pshaw, Jabe Fitch," retorted his companion, -a long Ken- tuckian, with an eye and face like a hawk, "ye think o' noth- ing but the inside o' yer stomach; be thankful ye've got yer  Q  '     W-CT**mttn&.". v AZ " w-X scalp on the outside o' yer head. That's the first lookout, goin' through the mountains." "A place for everything, and everything in its place, Dick Railes," quoth the other, "as my old grandmother used to tell. When we was goin' through a skeary place, why, I say look out for safety and nothin' else; when we've got out o' the woods, I allow we've got a right to holler!" ,Ay, but maybe we ain't out of 'em yet." "No? Why, Uncle Seth thinks there's ne'er an Injun 'twixt this and Stockton; that is, once out o' the foot hills." Seth Armstrong's cute, he is; but he don't allers know every- thing. - It ain't the call of an Illinise or Ohio farmer to be up to all the ins and outs o' the redskins, like as if he was raised on the frontier." "You, don't s'pose-" "There may not be an Injun within a hundred mile on us; and then, again, look thar." The speaker pointed as he spoke, and his interlocutor peered long and earnestly in the direction indicated ere he could make out what the practised eyes of the Kentuckian had detected some tihne before. Far away on the right, perhaps a couple of miles distant, so tiny as to be nearly invisible, curled upwards a spiral of smoke, blue and delicate against the green and brown of the earth and the foliage. Jabez Fitch looked for some time, and then drew a long breath. "Thunder! hadn't we better let on to Uncle Seth?" !"No. Leastways not yet. Maybe Luke's lit a fire; though it ain't like him afore night. Maybe that 'ere simpleton's set the brush ablaze for fun. Maybe one o' Luke's wads has done it. Anyhow, we'll be up with him soon, and we can find out." The sun was now sinking fast-to use the incorrectexpression. As the train was continually descending, it was shortening its daylight by a double process, and in a few minutes after the little colloquy described, it had become almost dusky. Still, it was light enough to see a couple of hundred yards further on, a stream which ran directly across their path. It was an old ac- quaintance, the party having often passed it miles behind as a mountain brook, and having been beholden to its clear currment for many a refreshing draught. It was growing more ambitious as it neared the plains, and although it had learned to be less noisy, it was much deeper, and now boasted a width of some twenty yards. On its furthest bank from our travellers stood a little grove of cottonwood trees, gracefully distributed in a curve of the stream; and beneath could now be discerned a group con-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.          9 sisting of five figures, two of which, however, alone were human.  The most conspicuous form was that of a young man full six feet high, who stood in advance of the others, leaning upon his rifle. He was attired, as were indeed most of the company, in a leathern or buckskin hunting shirt, and he wore Indian leg- gings and moccasins as the best protection against the prickly pear of the plains. Luke Armstrong might have seen some five-and-twenty sum- mers, and as he stood bareheaded, with his brown curling locks fluttering in the breeze, and a smile of welcome wreathing his handsome bronzed features, he looked the very ideal of manly strength and good humor. A few paces behind was another youth, apparently- fast asleep. His limbs were stretched carelessly upon the ground, while his head was pillowed on the back of a huge black dog, who lay pa- tiently enough, although his sagacious eyes and a scarcely per- ceptible movement of his bushy tail showed plainly his interest in the approaching party. The head of the sleeper was covered with a thick shock of coarse red hair, and the cap which had fallen on his side was decorated with three or four feathers of great length and gaudy colors. His dress was similar to that of Luke, except that it was fantastically ornamented with beads, feathers, and bits of fur, in a manner usually considered more consonant with a barbarian than a civilized taste. At a short distance a couple of Mexican mustangs, secured by lariats, were nibbling the bright green herbage which carpeted the borders of the stream; and their saddles and bridles cast upon the ground completed the inanimate portion of the picture. "Well, Luke, lad, what fortune?" cried Seth Armstrong, as his mule paused in splashing passage of the rivulet to bury its nose greedily in its cooling current. "Why, as to grass and water, father, you see; and as to game, look there!" He pointed as he spoke to a fine elk, which swung from the lower branch of a neighboring tree, and at whose foot there lay a considerable pile of feathered spoil. "We might have had two, continued Luke, regretfully. He would be hunting squirrels and Calumet- eagles for the sake of their tails, instead of foi good hullsome meat to keep the pot bilin." "Darn the simpleton!" said Dick Railes, riding up. He's allers spilin' sport. If I was you, Luke, I'd leave him with the   10        MARIAN ROOKE ; OKR train another time. -There's plenty'dbe glad to chum with ye, on yer huntin' days, without yer taking up with Silly Ike." "No, no," replied Luke, good-naturedly, " don't be too hard on poor Ichabod. He's ready enough, generally, to do his share o' the work; and if he has a taste for girmcracks, he's no worse than lots o' gals Dick Railes would be the last to speak a harsh word of." "That's so," said Jabez Fitch, with some malice. "Kitty Armstrong's the only gal I ever see that didn't care for ribbons and finery, and the only one Dick Railes can't git along with." "Who told you how he gits along?" growled Dick in high dudgeon, but evidently discomfited by the stroke. "One thing I can tell ye, boys," said Seth Armstrong, "and none on ye knows it better than Richard; and that is, ef we're all here now safe and sound, we have to thank Silly Ike for it. Them 'ere pesky Pawnees and Sioux would have belted our scalps, sure, more'n once, but for him. Darn me if I hadn't rather cross the plains with a half-wit than a hull regiment of Uncle Sam's blue bottles." "I do think you're right,father," said Luke. "It's-queerthat them red devils who won't respect a helpless woman, or even a child in arms for that matter, daren't so much as lift a finger agin a witling that hain't got so much sense as either." The party had in truth found reason to put the matter to a severe test. On one occasion in particular, during the first ten days of their journey from Liberty, rendered somewhat too bold by impunity nearly the whole number had incautiously sepa- rated themselves from their train, leaving only Ichabod and two others with the females in charge of the cattle and wagons. Thus defenceless, they were surprised by a band of some fifty Sioux, all well mounted and in the'ir war-paint, who surrounded the train with frightful cries. Fortunately, several of their num- ber understood enough English to converse intelligibly, and they speedily discovered the misfortune of poor Ichabod, who showed not the slightest trace of fear. By what persuasion or argument the dusky warriors arrived at their determination his companions never knew; but they were well satisfied when, af- ter an animated discussion in their own tongue, the Indians galloped off as swiftly as they had first approached, not, how- ever, without a considerable exhibition of admiration and rever- ence towards Ichabod, received by him with great gravity and equanimity. "And!'ll tell ye another thing 'bout Silly Ike," cried the ,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        "  latter personage himself, suddenly raising his head, and show- ing that, with characteristic cunning, he had been listening to the conversation. His black pillow accepted the movement as giving leave of absence, for, with a short, glad bark, he jumped up and ran to greet his various friends. I'll tell ye another thing 'bout Silly Ike," he repeated, sit- ting up cross-legged, and wagging his red locks spitefully at Dick Railes. ' He knows darned well who treats him right and who don't. He keeps a memory longer'nfrom here to Fort Leavenworth, Silly Ike does. He kin talk Yankee, and he kin talk Chiny, and he kin talk Turkey, and he kin talk Injun, he kin. He saved your scalps twice, and he kin do it agin. You're all darned smart, and there's only one on ye kin understand me, and that's Lion; he knows what I say, every word on't ; don't -ye, Lion?" The dog came up and rubbed himself affectionately against his master's shoulder. "That ain't what I was goin' to say, though," proceeded the latter, " and what it was is this. You're all on ye bound for Californy, to scratch and dig, and worry and burrow your souls out, and all for what? All for one thing. Most on ye'd sell your souls for it, I'll swear. Dick Railes would anyhow. Well, now, what's the pint? Just this: Ike kin give ye more gold than 'ud make that 'ere mountain over agin. Ike's got more'n 'ud make all the eagles and double eagles Uncle Sam ever kined at the mint in Philadelphy.  Virgin gold, though, all rich and yaller--" "Come, Ike," said Seth Armstrong, interrupting him kindly, and knowing by experience that on this subject the poor sim- pleton's haranguing was likely to prove exhaustless. "Come, Ike, boy, it's most sundown, and we've got to make camp, you know, and unyoke the critters and fix up a corral, and git tup- per, and lots o' things. Ye can tell us about the gold when we're smokin' our pipes, bime bye, can't ye?" "I will for you, Uncle Seth," answered Ichabod, quietly. But remember, I don't mean to give it to any on 'em. They ain't fit for it. 'Twould kind o' upset 'em; they're too weak- minded  they'd be for spendin' of it all in a minute, they would."- "Come on, Ike, we've had a good rest," cried Luke; "let's help to rouse out the teams." Darkness was now coming on apace, and the travellers were actively engaged in making their preparations for the night. Indeed, as they had had many days of heavy work, Seth Arm- 1I i .*           12        MARIAN ROOKrE; OR, strong proposed to pause for eight-and-fo1 y hours or therea- bouts, to give man and beast an opportunity to recruit For s urose few spots could have been discovereCI more fa- vorable than that on which they now found themselves. There was abundant orazing for the cattle plenty of water, and, al- though the site of their camp was heavily timbere therse to few trees and little brush for a -long distance on either side to furnish cover for any possible lurking enemies. This last con- sideration, no less important than the others determined the question of a more than usually protracted sojourn.   -HAP'Fr  II. OF the fourwagons described asformingthetrain, one was ex- clusively devoted to carrying the provisions of the party, an was placed when travelling first in the line. The second was filed with farming tools, extra gear for the teams, and such supply of grain or other forage as could, from time to time, be obtained to make up for incidental scarcity on the march. :For there were occasional wastes to traverse whereon the bnng sun had shrivelled everyblade of grass and absorbed eve'y drop of moisture; places, to cross which in safety, the wayfarer must provide food and water, not only for himself but for his cattle. The last wagon was used for he conveyance of such personal luggage as each of the party was permitted to take, andcon- tained besides various articles of household furniture from the farmhouse of the Armstrongs on the banks of the Ohio. It had been a sore question with poor Mrs. Armstrong, which of the se household gods to cheris and Which to tur n her back upon ;- which of the old familiar things to keep familiar still, and which to abandon forever. Give her her way, indeed, and she would have brought the old farmhouse itself, carefullypacked in se- nls* g, and the old red barn, and the hen-house, and the pige  a  all th liv----ing thingswhich inhabited them. Bu pigpen;',.*'l     He was. sensible -ryid here Seth Armstrong was Iney ea      n  e   l ing to a Certain weakness in undertaking this hazardous jouiney at all; and he was, at all events, determined to assert his dig- nity and recompense his self-respect in the carrying out of details.      .        t. The expedition had its orgi simplyinthiswise' Luke Arm-   ; THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE9      13 strong, like many other young men, and quite in a natural way, had taken the "California fever." All reasoning and entreaty to the contrary, go to the land of gold he would. Now, when his mother found his resolution inflexible, she at once resolved to carry out the only device whereby a separation from her first- born might be avoided. She determined on the transportation of the whole family to the Pacific shore ; and, as in all her en- terprises, when she set to work with a will, she succeeded. Not without difficulty, however, for Seth Armstrong was more strongly attached to his home than many of his countrymen are prone to be. He had left a farm in New England five-and- twenty years before; a farm where his people had dwelt and died for many generations. But the soil was flinty and ungen- erous on the banks of the Connecticut, and it was bounteous and virgin on those of the Ohio. It had been a hard struggle for bare subsistence in the former case, and life became easy and comfortable in the latter. So SelM Armstrong had struck down new roots, and had thriven adiv flourished apace until he was turned of fifty years of age. His family never had much money, perhaps, but they had always abundance to eat, to drink, and to wear. Seth was contented with his lot, and so was his wife, and so was their blue-eyed daughter Kitty, and so, until Captain Sutter's lucky discovery, had been his son Luke. Be that as it might, they were now all of them infected with the gold fever. Seth, with many sighs, had, as he called it, "pulled up stakes," shipped his goods down the river to St. Louis, made up his party with a great deal of shrewdness and sagacity, and in the middle of the continent, with -his Lares and Penates- such as were left of them--here he was. But he had obstinate- ly refused to " tote" any articles excepting such as he could be convinced were absolutely necessary, and hence had arisen many a momentous conflict of opinion between himself and " mother." In these encounters, as has been suggested, Seth came off vic- torious in a general way; and if exceptions existed in trifling particulars, they were to be found-in the third wagon of the train, which we now propose to describe. Not to be paradoxical, it was a nondescript sort of a vehicle. It had been used on the journey as a residence, serving as kitch- en for the entire party, sitting-room for the females, and, divid. ed by a thick canvas partition, as a chamber for the Armstrong family at night; the others either finding room in the remain- ing wagons, or sleeping, by preference, in the open air. But these were not the sole uses of the vehicle in question; for it    to . .      MARIAX ROORE  on, had not only been applied to these necessary prposes, bt had seen service on the march as a pontoon and- on one occasion, even moresimply, as'a boat. TThe truth was that Seth Arm- even more Simply, asa-.^      e  hri  uch a con- strong, foreseeing a variety of exigencies wherein such a con- trivance wo uld be useful, had, with Luke's aid, built this re- trivance would be usefuH7  ^ mI-kable wagon himself. It was entirely of home manufacture, markable wagon himself. Itw^^^     which were those of with t thexceptio perhaps   s    body could be re - an rnry heavy 'a .......m hic an ordinary heavy van, and fom ; w of steps similar to, al- ily detached. In the rear was fli  fml       a- though somewhat higher than those of a common omnibus, though  Wha higher      ' admitte light over the and a window of half-a-dozen squares admitted light over the door.; Towards the foremos   t part of  e    r oof, which was of stout canvas, and upwards of seven feet high  from the floore small stove-pipe emerged, and conducted smoke dre the fire below. The whoe structe might have been sixteen feet n length, by seven in width. While the men were attending to the cattle and preparing their camp-re to cook their gamen fo prepraless activity were usually made in the open air,  sc  ene of no less aetit was frog'essing in Castle Armstrong; for such was the nmne was progressing in     'n tieA1^if^ce just described. The conferred by the travellers on the ed ffice J oust describe actical biiliat lghtofthe moon and stars suffced for all practical br illiant light 'of the ..oonl lan    of the fire. Not purposes out of ors eve+ without the help o of candles so, however, within, where  artifial aid of a p  of e wancsr  car  out the operations in progress. A fn'e was necessary to carry o e directly 1  after the halt, and was I c in, the- stove cm-euyg had been lighted    .ge kettle of water staging now blazing brriskly enough, to set a Ir,., of wt  ' now blazing bn  uspyenoughe^ -. ovmelrt   cherry-ipped aloud which was suspended ovei. A     resemblance to rkling blue eyes, .and a striking resemblance to irl with sparkl       g         t. .? Luke Armstrong, was st   g a  ixture intended to make Luke Astrng wag sir-rin  a M ahinge, in the ,hoe-cake" 1on a dresser, which worked with a i hoe,-cake" on a 'esserWI'     e but not unpre-pos- -ore part of the vehicle, while a middle-aged, but not unprepos- sessing woman, whom it needs no second glance to identify as eessing Wo^a,17who           4    and grd- the mother of the younger one, was getting "spiders" and grid- theirons and other indescribable utensils, ready for the evening ironsmeal. At the other end of the apartment and her features some- ewhat obscthe, as the candles stood on a table close by Kitty what obscured, as  J^ thel stopn to get Armstrong, was the tall figure of another girl, stooping to get sArmethirong out , om one of the drawers which were fitted under somethingiout from oneof th we^      e  e to Luk each of the berths. Such was the picture presxen, hted to claue Armstrong as, after unyoking and settling the oxen, h e clam- bered up tothe seat, and thrust his good-humored face into the 'God evening, mother!" cried he.   "We've got such a   "j        '  1-. . F  an  THE QUE ST FOR FORTUNE.  beautiful doe! And the fires are lit, and Bridget and Jabe are cutting the steaks, and the Doctor and Dick Railes are squab. bling about the distance to Salt Lake, and father's found an old corral for the critters! I hope you're most ready with the hoe- cake, for we've all got such famous appetites!" "All right, Sonny," responded the matron. "We ain't usually much behind the men folks, 'specially at cookin' time. Father says we're goin' to rest here a spell." "Yes, we're through the Great PasA, and a right smart bit on our way. There ain't much more chance of stumblin' agen the redskins, and the cattle need a day or two to pick up." "I'm so glad," exulted Kitty Armstrong. "I'm sick and tired of this joggle joggle, which makes you feel jest like crossing Lake Michigan. Now, you Luke," she continued, coming up and kissing his brown cheek, ' where's my present?" "Choose." "No, I won't choose hands, for you always change 'em. Any how, Mary Anne gets the prettiest. Lets see ." "Non no, honor bright. Look, I won't stir after you pick, 'cept to give it to you." "Well, then, left."' "Here you are then Kitty, left." Luke handed his sister a band or circlet of curious shape, but evidently intended for the head. It consisted of some sort of soft skin, adorned with porcupine quills, and enriched at the centre by a noble plume from the eagle, known among the In- dians as the Calumet. "Why, Luke!" cried the girl in surprise, not unmingled with alarm. "Where did you find it?" "In the mountains this morning. I thought Ike had tomfool- ery enough stuck about him, and 'twould better suit you. I think it's a chief's." "Then there are Indians near us, after all?" "How d'ye make that out, silly? The loser may be dead or hundreds of miles away." "I hope he is the last any how. But what have you got for Mary Anne?" "Nuthin' much," said Luke, a flush warming his fiank brow, 4"only a bunch of little mountain posies. Won't you take 'em, Mary Anne?" The tall girl came forward at the invitation, and extended her hand. She was dark--not of Luke's sun-bronzed hue, but with a complexion of clear olive, through which the blood could be traced as if the skin were that of the purest blonde. Like Kitty,   16         MARIAN IROO3; OR, she wore a plain stuff gown, happily unextended by crinoline; and her head carried only its own ample ornament. But, un- like Kitty, her manner was distinguished, and her carriage, without suggesting the slightest affectation, was almost fit for a --queen. Her hand, too, which was stretched to take the prof- fered nosegay, was tapering and delicate. Whoever or what- ever Mary Anne might be, she was one of those whom no humbleness of dress or situation can make common; no disen- chanting adjuncts in the way of domestic, surroundings can altogether deprive of dignity. "Thank you very much, Luke," she said in a low, musical voice. "They can scarcely be sweeter than the last ones were." I have to take what I can find, Mary Anne," said Luke, unconsciously tuning his voice into the same key. "Flowers are scarce on the dry prairie, but these came from the mountains." "And yet their scent is like magnolia blossoms," she went on. 'They remind me of the South." "Put them in your hair, Mary Anne," said Luke; "we're to have a spree to-night-a kind of a blow-out to celebrate our safe crossin' of the mountains; so you girls can make yourselves as pretty as you please."               ' "Well, then, be off, Luke," exclaimed his mother, and don't be a henderin' of 'em, for they've lots of chores to do, and father 'll be hollerin' for supper." Luke reluctantly descended from his perch, and joined the active party outside. By this time a large fire was blazing mer- rily at a convenient distance from the banks of the stream, the cattle were comfortably settled for the night, buffalo robes spread upon the ground, and preparations for a feast in active progress. Bridget, a stout Irish lass, long the faithful follower of the Armstrong family, was busily getting steaks from the elk, and preparing a generous number of the birds for a "stew" in a huge ix'on pot. Some of the men were still engaged at various Necessary labors, while others, having finished their share of the work, were stretched on skins before the fire. Not that its heat was much needed, but the habit. of forming a circle around the blazing logs was strong, and all readily fell into it. This circle, indeed, constituted a sort of evening parliament whereat the discoveries and adventures of the day, and the projects and chances of the morrow, were regularly debated and determined. It has been remarked that Seth Armstrong had made up his  party with not a little sagacity. The primary objects were of course security and efficiency; that is, numbers sufficient to de- ter attack or resist it, and yet not too many to endanger quarrels   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        17 or divided counsels; and discreet selection, with a view to avoid the ineumbrance of indolent, sickly, or otherwise objectionable companions. Seth was no great expert himself in frontier woe albeit a toleral     .  . .  ..'tier worknlS albeit a tolerable woods man, a stanch husbandman, and a steady shot. he had, however, a great deal of self-reliance, and liked to cherish it. When he determined to cross the continent, he had first provided himself with a large map, which was as ac- curate as a sketch of a partly unexplored country on a scale of fifty miles to the inch is likely to be. Such as it was, he had given it careful and protracted study, measured the distances his teams were likely to accomplish 'n various hyothetical periods considered the relative positions of well-known constellations with reference to their ine of march at such epochs, and, in general, so fortified hisltf as 0^ tehh1eo^ad generaly hismself asch  to feel sure that he would not con- vey his charge to the Russian possessions or the city f Mexico Having made hi progrss Seth     -u orth  city of Mexico. Having made this progress, Seth madeit his business to seek out some one who had been on the plains before, and, whatever his otherknowledge or deficiencies, should have experience at all events in this. He had no  great difficulty in inding such an assistant in the long Kentuckian called Dick Railes, a personage whom it would not have been difficult to persuade to undertake ajom'rney to any part of the habitable, or for that matter, unike habitable globe, but who, if he had a choice at that time for one thing over another, preferred to try his luck in the gold diggings of California. Dick had  been as ar as the Rock y Mountains as long ago as '40, he said; and onct he'd been across to the high- est peak away to the northward, when the Pathfinder set up the proud bannerof   uuniversal nation on that uncomfortable and hitherto inaccessible acclivit ick had, owever sundry little weaknesses and eccentricities of temper; and his knowledge was, moreover, of a  merely popular character hi usefl no doubt, but not precisely of thatSt      ghyueluoob, but not precisely of that exhaustive description which one likes 'ode-pend upon exclsiv to   depend upon exclusiv ely when life, fortune, and worldly goods are at issue. This is perhaps not exactly the form wherein Seth would  have set forth what he felt to be a  deficiency in the material of his party; still it expresses substantially his view of adthe case. He, therefore, considered himself very fortunate when he stumbled upon a man of Science, who was not only capable of taking observations with a  theodolite or a  sextant, but who also was   seeking a  party with whom to cross the  plains. This was one Doctor Landale, a  hard headed Scotchman of forty, wh o had b  een bred a  surgeon, had  followed his profession zealously for a d  ozen years, and had  taken a fancy to turn civil engineer at six- and-thirty . Whether this caprice was consequent upon a  deter-   18     .MARIAN ROOKE; OR, mination to visit new countries, where he might wisely have two strings to his bow, did not appear; be that as it may, honest Seth satisfied himself after his own fashion of the doctor's capacity, most especially with reference to exact science; and the sight of a transit instrument, a theodolite, a dumpy level (Troughton and Simms'), together with that of a formidable set of draughting in- struments, quite took his confidence by storm. Furthermore, the doctor agreed to pay a certain sum towards the expenses of transport and provision, which sum being rather in excess of what he got from others of the party who had no special at- tainments to enhance the mercantile value of their society, sat- isfied the thrifty yeoman remarkably well. Besides those already mentioned, there were two young men, farmers' sons, and friends of Luke from Ohio; a quaint and good-humoured looking person, who described himself as having lately a kept store" at Biddeford, Maine; an enormously powerful backwoodsman, who "belonged" in one of the west- ern counties of Illinois; a couple of sturdy Irishmen, who "worked their passage " by special agreement with Seth Arm- strong; and, lastly, a slight young man from Massachusetts, called Hugh Gifford.       . When Luke descended from the wagon he found the party in high spirits, and interested in a not unusual species of dis- cussion between Dr. Landale and Dick Railes. "'Spose now, doctor, you was to lose your th'oderlite and sextant and the fixins, and was to git stuck in the middle ofthe pararie without 'em, then whar would you be?   I could find nmy way by the sun, and the trees, and the different kinds o' sile, and the lay of the land; but whar would you be?" I'd just find my road without either of the tools you men- tion, and without either of yours, for that' matter, although the sun is a very good guide. Why, man, a couple of poles and a lighted brand would give us the meridian any night we could see the north star; and it's easy enough to keep a dead reckoning with such steady travellers as Seth Armstrong's oxen." "Wall, if you could git along so well without 'em, whar's the use o' the gimcracks, so much frettin' and worryin' to carry 'em safe, and you bilin' over half the time about their gittin' out of 'justment, and local attraction disturbin' the needle, and what not? I take it a straight eye and a clear head is as good measures for lines and distances as all the science things you kin scare up I don't see no use in 'em 'ept to scare of the In- up:*          to scare off the In-              THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       19 juns, praps, who allus thinks a round thing with a hole int's bound to go off." "If you were squatting on a quarter section, Master Railes, with pushing neighbors on either side, or coming on a savage coast in winter, when a mile or so might make the differ- ence between death and safety, you'd want something more mathematical, I'm thinking, than clear heads and straight eyes to demonstrate your position.' "As to the quarter sections, they run 'em of down ourway without no spy-glasses; jest a jacob-staff and a compass, and what they call a Gunter's chain; eighty on 'em on a side, and then blaze a tree. They don't use no spy-glasses like your'n, nor no triangulations, "None that you see, perhaps. To simplify the work, as they think, they may divide the square mile as you say with nothing more than the field-cOmpass and chain ; but the lines of the townships, at least, are located more accurately, or the sum  of errors would lead to hopeless confusion. The system you quote is a bungling one at best, and could only answer in a new country, where land is abundant and claimants few., And as to savage coasts," continued the Kentuckian, pur- suing the thread of' his former reply, a I don't know nuthin' about em, and I don't want to knlow nuthin'.  Paariesand Injuns is savage'enough for me. I don't want no water round that ain't fresh, I don't. What it's made for I can't see, cept it is to give the folks in the Atlantic States an excuse to tax the hull country for building ships and forts that ain'twanted., (LWhy, Dick, cried Luke   Armstrong,' laughing,  , you wouldn'tleave the country without a navy, would you? Or the coasts and sea-ports without defences    I "What good does the navy or the forts do us out here?" queried Mr. Railes, obstinately. "We don't own  no- ships to be purtected; we ain't afi-aid of nobody else's ships bombardin' our towns. We air an agricultooral people, we ahi; and we air a  goin' on to open up the boundless west, conquerin' and to conquer until the hull continent clear to the Pacific is filled with states as fine and as flourishin' as old Kentucky. Take kear o' number one, that's my idee; we don't want no ships to do that."1 "Hooray!;' shouted Ichabod, midway in a  series of wild gambols with the dog, Lion.  "Hooray for Uncle Sam! Hooray for the universal Yankee nation! Hooray for the 'Merikun eagle!  We'll all jest sail in and take the hull con- tinent, and hdrive out the Britishers, and the greasers, and an-  20         MARIAN ,ROOKE; OR, nex Canady, and gobble up Cuby, and clean aout the hull lot on 'em. We'll live on milk and honey, and elk meat and hoe- cake, and never do any work; and every man shall have ten farms afore he's had time to cultivate one; and we'll all go to Congress and make new laws every day; and we'll have a new President once a week, and Ike will be the first one, and Lion the second! Hooray!"          , And Ike commenced an active pantomime, whereof the principal feature consisted in enveloping himself in a buffalo robe and pretending to be a bear, to the great joy but affected fury of Lion. "Two on ones too many," said Luke, with his good-natured laugh. "The Doctor can't argue with Ike and you both, Dick. He'll hev to give in." 4Dick's more'n half right," growled Nahum Pelter, the gentleman from Illinois, preceding his opinion with an appall- ing extrusion of tobacco juice. "We don't want no ships 'cept on the greatlakes. We must have 'em thar to keep the Britishers in order." "The only good I could ever see in ships," proceeded Dick Railes, thus heavily reinforced, " is to tote cotton and terbacker; and fuin ships might as well do that as any others. Labor's cheaper with them, and, naterally, they can kerry theprodoose for less money." "4 And sposin' there was a war with the nation ownin' the ships?" put Jabez Fitch, with the air of a man having a thirst for useful information. "Then," answered Dick, confidently, "then we'd jest hive our stuff till the fightin' was over. We could git along better without their ships than they could git along without our cotton and terbacker." "Arter all, Dick Railes," said Seth Armstrong, joining in the discussion, "' -ter all, you can't be in right down airnest in what you say. If we hadn't had no ships and no commerce, we mightn't have had the population or the money to set up all these here great Western States at all. Where would have  been the wealth of New England ef it hadn't been for her trade with the East and West Indies? And where would have been the honor of the nation ef we hadn't had war ships ready when we fit agin impressment and the rightof search in '14? What's the difference where the ships is built, or where they go, so long as they're owned by and fightin' for the hull country ." "The difference is,"l said Mr. Railes, with a dogmatic evasion of the issue, "the difference is that the South and West is self-   THE QUEST FOR FOR TUNE.        21 8 of the issue, "the difference is that the South and West is self- supportin', and the North and East ain't." "Look a here," exclaimed Nahum Pelter, ejecting his cus- tomary avant courier; "  look a here! We kin live on this ere pararie without any help from the Yankee States or rotten old Europe either. We kin find elk, and antelope, and buffalo, and bar enough to eat, and their skins will keep us warm. We kin git corn almost for nothing', for one man's sowing'll feed ten. If you poke round here long enough, I'll find ye coal, and lead; and sulphur, and nitre, and iron; let alone red cinnabar, cop- per, or, for the matter o' that, what we're all huntin' for, gold. Now, if we've got all we want, and other folks come along and want to trade with us, it stands to reason that to do't is for their advantage, and not for our'n." "That's so," quoth Dick Railes, approvingly. You can't find no gold," cried Ichabod. "Nobody knows where the gold is but Ike. He knows where there's mountains of it-more'n ever was found in Indy or Peroo; enough to make ye all so blamed rich ye'd cook yer elk in gold pots, and wear crowns firom now to never. Ike knows where it is, only 'twould kind a spile ye and make ye wild to let ye have it, so he'll keep it for himself." 'What you say, Pelter," said Seth, "sounds reasonable enough, but I'm afeard it's one-sided, arter all. What do you think about it, Mr. Gifford?" he continued, to the young man ;firom Massachusetts, who had hitherto listened, without taking part in the discussion. "I?'" answered the latter. "Why, Mr. Armstrong, I should say that the West can't do without the ships, nor the East with- out the prairies." "A politic conclusion, Mr. Gifford," said Dr. Landale, "and one which does credit to your tact, if it be not altogether con- vincing to either disputant." "Why, as to that, who agrees or disagrees with two dispu- tants never satisfies either. However, I expressed my belief. You have been long enough with us now to know that there are great differences of opinion among the Americans." "To be sure, to be sure," replied the Doctor. Large country, mixed people-miscellaneous educations-tot homines) totsenten- tice" "What's that?" asked Mr. Pelter, in an undertone, of Dick Railes. "Something about the Th'odolite," explained the latter. "Now, then, gentlemen, supper supper!" cried Seth Arm-   22         MARIAN ROOK; OR, strong. "Here's mother and the gals bringin' the tea and the hoe-cakes cooked, and Bridget's got steaks enough cut for a regiment." "Supper with all my heart," said the Doctor. "I'd much rather discuss elk steaks than abstract questions, however inter- esting or instructively set forth." "Amen," said Luke. "Besides, this is a night of jollity, to celebrate gettin' safe through the mountains. Come, Dick, exitra whiskey to-night, you know." "That suits,me" responded Mr, Railes, complacently. "And won't hurt none on us for once," remarked Seth. "I ain't one o' these kind o' men who'd keep the boys Jfrom a cheerful drop now and agin."      /  "Whiskey for Ike," chimed in that personage; " whiskey for Ike, and a drop for Lion. Whatever Ike gits-elk or teal, hoe- cake or whiskey-Lion has some too." "Now, boys, here's the tea comin'," continued Seth. "Take tea with supper, and keep your whiskey for your pipes arter- wards. Who has the fust watch to-night, Luke?" "Mr. Gifford and Ike." "That's well They ain't so like to need sleep, p'raps, as the rest. Now, then, mother, we're all sharp set enough for two. Set the steaks a brilin', Bridget, and git out the teacups." These latter consisted of tins, which served for all drinkables alike, and were soon in use, together with plates of the same durable material. The supper was abundant and savory, and high good humor prevailed among the party. Lion was not forgotten by his zealous firiend,- who, after giving the honest creature his fill, produced a violin, on which he played with considerable skill and facility. Then there were songs about Old Virginny, and Carolina, and Tennessee, and the Ohio tiver, and yaller gals, and old homes, ad libitum. Afterwards there were some rude but jovial and hearty essays at dancing, and when the dancers were too weary to trip it longer they re- clined on their buffalo robes, and took to story-telling. So that it was very late when the festivities at last came to a close, and the moon went to rest, and left the stars to shine down in unobstructed splendor upon the little camp, which now became as placid and still as it had lately been full of life and merriment.   THEE QUEST FOR FORTUNE,       23 CHAPTEM   III. A LONG journey by land has many features in common with a long passage by sea. There are the same likesand dislikes,the same jealousies-and repinings, the same horror of particular faces and expressions which one gets to loathe in the most unchar'ita- ble manner, to be requited, perchance, by being loathed in return There are, too, the same speedy detections of sympathy by kindred natures; the same binding together of tastes and amusements, and caprices, so that nothing is more fiequent on sea or shore than to find a set of people split into little cliques and factions, each as complete in itself and repellent of thea others as if the different members were of opposite and hostile nationalities. The land passage has the advantage of the water in that it presents more variety of scenery, -and, generally speak- ing, entails more physical exertion; circumstances less condu- cive to ennui than the dreary monotone and listless apathy of the ocean axe apt to be. It has not, however, the same opportunities which state-rooms and cabins afford, either for solitary commun- ing or relief from enforced companionship. When the party of Seth Armstrong first set forth from St. Louis there were, as was quite natural, a great many proffers of attention and  minor gallantry to the  young girl called Mary Anne from the men, most of whom were young, and, of the four women of the party, only herself and Kitty Armstrong being eligible Such advances the girl had  received with sim- ple courtesy, speaking kindly to all without hauteur olr reserve, but yet managing, with a tact rather remarkable at nineteen, to prevent either from considering himself peculiarly favored by encouragement. Leading questions, such as most Americans below a certain grade of intelligence and education are by no means too delicate in withholding, she contrived, without giving offence, to avoid. Conversation which tended to elicit any ex- position of her past life she would ingeniously divert, or, as a last resort, would find refuge in silence. Thus it happened that, by the time the caravan had reached the mountains, While the whole party knew all about the Armstrongs  ; were well versed in the life and adventures of Dick Railes and Jabe Fitch; had    been favored with an  autobiography in detail of Mr. Nahum PeIter; were conversant with the business speculations and vicissitudes of the gentleman from Biddeford; had even   24        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, W,^               ^ .   A n, become familiar with the mingled web of physic and mensura- tion, wherein the reminiscences of the cautious Scotchman, Dr. Landale, were interwoven, they yet knew nothing at-all about the young girl called Mary Anne. What was most singular was that Seth Armstrong knew almost as little about her as any one else.  ,Miss May Anne is I presue your second daughter? ar*S^      S-^w--o the ,pumney. ,queried the Doctor, on the second day -of the jour ney. / , Miss Mary Anne? .My darter? Wall, no, I expect she's -that is, I dunno-wall, I calculate she's Mary Anne." With which explanation the Doctor, perforce, remained sat- isfied ; for an introductory " hem" wherewith he prefaced an- other threatened interrogatory so alarmed the worthy farmer that, unused to diplomatic evasions, he hastily beat a retreat under pretence of "seein' to -the tire of thatI'ere hindermost wagon." No one had been more successful than the Doctor; so that Mary Anne continued, so far as the knowledge of the company was concerned, to be Mary Anne; "only this, and nothing more." The truth was that Mr. ArmstronLg's acquaintance with the young woman was scarcely a day older than that of any mem- ber of the party; and when he hesitated or prevaricated re- ,specting her surname, it was for a reason no more occult than "that he simply did not know, it. On the day before the one fixed for setting out, she came to the obscure hotel which was the last rendezvous of his party, and asked to see him alone. "I wish to go across the plains," she said, "to California. I have money-can pay for the :trouble and expense I may cause. You are going-you have a wife and daughter ; let me go with you," ," Why," he hesitated, "it's very sudden-the last minute like. Rain't ye got no friends! I mean no men-folksy" "No!" the girl answered; "none. She went on, wringing her hands with a kind of terror, and looking over her shoulder as if she expected to be interrupted. , You must take me. I must leave this place at once. It is death to me to stay here longer." The farmer looked at her hands. There were two or three -handsome diamonds upon them. Then he looked at her attire. She was in mourning, her dress of a rich dark material, more shapely and stylish, he thought, than any his Kitty had ever worn. Altogether she looked a singular person to be wishing   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         25 to cross the plains. Why didn't she go down to Orleans and take the steamer, and cross the Isthmus?   She read his. thoughts. "Don't hesitate; you musn't, indeed you musn't. I'll pay well-believe me-and in advance, too.  I tell you I  must leave Missouri-leave the neighborhood of the Mississippi. I'll give very, very little trouble; and I'll help your. wife and daughter. I can be very useful; and-and---see here!" Her trembling fingers had sought and opened a reticule, and she drew forbith a large purple silk purse. It was filled with golden eagles. "It's curus,5 thought Seth Armstrong; " dreadful curus." Then aloud and suddenly, "Ye hain't done nuthin' you're ashamed on, and hev to ruin away to escape the consequences, have ye? cos "              , 1No, no, no!" cried she. "I have neverdone a wrong to man or woman! Never! s) help me heaven, never! But  " She put her face close to Seth's, and whispered a sentence in his ear. 'v It's impossible!" he exclaimed; and then again, after a pause, "It can't be." As I am a woman it is true." Another pause longer than before. The farmer put his face in his two hands, cogitated awhile, and then spoke. "I'll take ye." "You will! Oh, thanks, thanks! I'll give you . " "I - don't want none o' your money. If you've a mind to help mother and Kitty, you may." And so it was that Mary Anne had joined the palrty. She told Seth her Christian name-no other-and by it he intro- duced her to his helpmate. What further explanations he vouchsafed that exacting lady need not here be recited; enough that they were sufficient to obtain her acquiescence in the ar- rangement he had made. She offered no objections, and but one recommendation, niamely, that the young lady should take off them 'ere duds, and put on others more suitable for the jour- ney; so that the prompt adoption of her suggestion made matters  quite amicable all round.  Of all the young men who surrounded her, the one who at the outset had treated Mary Anne with the greatest distance was Hugh Gifford. He was not disrespectful certainly, or even indifferent towards her; for when they casually met he omitted no courtesy due to a lady whose position was thoroughly de- fined and understood. But beyond this he made no step. He I       '2      ,            - . ' I                     *'          26       -MARIAN ROOKE; OR, contented himself with a grave, commonplace civility and there paused. Perhaps he admnired her rather striking appearance, -and that with something of an artist's eye. But no 0look, no tolne no lingering glance even, which might lhave been supposed unseen, betrayed such a feeling. Luke Armstrong, who made not the slightest effort to hide his own honest admiration of the girl expressed surprise not unmingled ,with indignation at Giford's insensibility. "There's a gal,." he thought, ".who steps like a fawn, and talks like a runnin' brook, and who's got a shape and an eye enough to set a man a-fire, a:nd that there young Yankee looks at her for all the world as if she was cut out of a block of ice."         - It is one of the many strange perversities of our common nature to seek to make revelations to those who never ask us questions. Had Gifford approached her as the others had, he would have been received in like manner, except, indeed, that his -superior education and breeding would have doubtless gained him a gentler spiriting. But the very reserve which tinged his manner, and which would have interposed an in- superable barrier to the confidence of a woman of coarser nature, put Mary Anne at ease with him., Indeed, she felt better acquainted with Gifford before he had spoken a hundred wods to her, than weeks of daily intercourse caused her to feel with the others. X               '  Little by little, as time wore on, they began to talk, and to pick up, at first in an odd desultory way, some klnowledge each of the other. Sometimesthe occasion would be the sud- den coming upon some glorious view, when she would involun- tarily glance quickly about to catch his eye, and then as swiftly look away again. Sometimes a curious flower or some strange mineral would be discovered, and Would draw. together as such things will those who, alone of the party save Dr. Landale, could hazard conjecture as to its classification or species. Some- times the Doctor, who kept a chart and a log, marking the former and making his entries in the latter as the courses and distances for each day were computed, would challenge them to inspect his work, and thus generate discussion. But most frequently these confidences were interchanged on long starry evenings when it happened that Gifford was on watch and the rest were quiet in sleep.. It was the custom of the party to keep watch and watch as on shipboard-a measure highly ne- cessary where Indians as well as wild animals abound; and Ichabod had been early detailed with Gifford. The poor fellow's misfortune did not affect his useifulness in this or in many othel   ,      THEI QUEST FOR FORTUNE        7 3 a           27 respects; unless he had been, as sometimes happened, over- fatigued; the mind Would then fail to control the body, and he ? would sink into heavy slumbers. 'However, this Wratch was - numlerieally stronger than the others, since it included Lion; -; and, as the dog never slept when his master did, there was no loss of vigilance involved. Mary Anne had kindled in the -7; simple mind of Kitty Asmstrons some little taste f r y        itertase foro astr + and the two             e wonll wastsilent to tell over and watch the constellations. Kritty would soon  weary, however, even with the most interesting of 1i1ili she w o u r n eyld         o fte rest'  o  t e ach e r s,  a n d - she would often fall asleep by the camp-fire. Occasionally Seth Armstrong, anxious for the safety of his fl-ock, would ttur' out from Iis, comfortable berth and take a survey of the state of things; but'as he lilked Kitty to " get, all the learnin' she could," and saw -no harm, "so long as the gals was together," A; he never objected to these, midnight ga,thebings. It was on such an occasion, and on a night like that whic followed the merriment described  in the last chapter, that iuh Gif ror[ told AIary Anne something of his early life. X They had been speaking of the motives which had led the little company to brave the toils and dangers of their present ,: journey. " The father would rather be with his family, the mother will not be sepa rated from her son; the son alone avows his real ;. object, which is, after all, the object of all, gold. They have ;:::-nothing else to care for, nothing else to hope for. It is what the Children have heard of all their lives as the sole end and goal of  existence. The yeoman wants it, the backwoodsman -.nt,     e rawants it, the every half-wit here wants it, as ]his poor childish talk, continually dwelling on the stibject, proves." ' "And do not you, too, want it?", asked Mary Anne gravely. I?'More  than all the  others. What am I without it? - Nothing. What, in this land, can I be with it ? Everything. :? "I am sorry." ,! "Sorry?" ," I should have hope&you had some nobler thought for your future; some purer ambition, some higher aspiration." ," W  hy go to California, but for gold?"       ' "Ah, but onl  y as a  means to an  end. Not for its own sordid sake, but to enable you to do good.- To relieve undeserved suffering by m aking some forlorn ones happy. To belp obscure Mnerit onward and upward in its struggle aorise, To hep obs cure ;which m ight otherwise scorn and trample upon it. Is there not   / 28         MARAX RKOOKE; OR? more pleasure in this than in mere wealth for its own sak Perhaps. I think I should like to do good. But one m first have the means. It is idle to speculate on the possi good a mani might do while he continues without them." "You have-pardon me-you have suffered much from 1 want of money perhaps?" "Yes and no. Others havre been poorer than I; plenty, doubt, more deserving. But I doubt that many have felt povei more keenly; have craved so much for wealth, not caring straw for the luxury it would buy, but to escape the scorn the vulgar and ignoble whose presence I'could not escape t low and mean, who hated me because they thought me educat without being rich, and- -who sneered at the idea of a paut being proud." "But you came from Massachusetts, the State which spen so much money for free schools; the State which of all oth should hold education and brains in the highest esteem ;t State where money as compared with intelligence should cat lowest honor: " "It may be so in theory; I only know what it is in practi( I only know that firom the schools themselves-where the ri men's sons lord it in pitying scorn over their poorer mates- the churches and courts, and marts of trade, gold is the measu of each maln's standing, reputation, influence. Is this unnatura It is such a measure for the simplest of reasons, because there no other." ' I have read much of social life in New England, and wh I have read scarcely consists with what you say. Has not yo case been a peculiar one? Have you not been-if you will I me say so-have you not been too sensitive " "Possibly! You shall judge. I thank "Ileaven that for time, at least,' I have left New England behind me. There m- be society there more elevated-a moral atmosphere mo genial than I "have any knowledge of. My own experien, stamps the first as narrow, selfish and conceited-the second; inconceivably grovelling and sordid. I will tell you somethin of that experience, although I fear it has little to interest yoi I will tell you because you may fi ind in t something to pallial views and feelings which may strike you, perhaps, as warpe and cynical." "No! I only think you are angry now, because no doul you hlave been badly treated. You must know I am rathi prejudiced. I have for years regarded New England as a so] of haven of justice for allkinds and conditions of men ; a plac     ,   ...; j  ,  THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.  q                FTUE.   . 29 where none could go W Without being valued, trusted, and rewarded for What they are; and that, without rcgm'd to the ?! smiles orfi-owns of all the world besider    to the ::' , "New England and its people have great merits'no doubt Ther:e are numbers, without question, who can justly and r *: My .ound he-S'S ^^SSeS^^ and grac- fully sound her praises from the depths of their own knowledgea from the sincerityof their own gratitude. I . canedge,        '       e '-,. x cando. True, mine may be a rare, an exceptional case; but such as it is you shall q! hear its history." . d .h7 :: lie rose as he spoke, and talkinghirfemaeoeotos it- swift circuits of the sleeping campwhich it was partofthe ty -  of those on watch now and again  perform In a ew !: moments hereturned. :;  "T have So rarely lout confidence in 'any one," he said rather diffidently, as be resumed his seat by the girl's side, " that it - comes awkwardly enoug to relate my ownoor adventrees. :, beridehi^,1      atd 1em1Y Own!" poo adven]turlyfs Y ou will make large allowance, I am sure, for the want of grace or fluency ill the narrative." Mary Anne bowed in assent, and as she did 'so, one  rhome,         o oln^SAeor two - of the burning logs of the cam  fire fell in and te fa es hot up with a ruddier glow. alow: ;f I:.., , i r , .es slie as closely as miost men would have, looked at the iovely face ?:;it       ---, .ooear t  it erloest thace beside hm, hle might have seell, or fancied, a warmerinterest than that mere  assent implied e eton with his story  f Who were unworthy-IOti weh t ^ oo  withhis st0or te:, :;5Iy f" ather was an Engishman, who leftis nativeand ear     9          s hnvative land e01 in lell   Whm y  hedi E hso, iZ?0q a7il o a  n ife. Why he aid s0, and why in doing so -le chose America -for a home, Inever  knew. When be died, I was still to young gto have been told of such thingsnd ferars ti  y  :knew of them, "none took th e trouble to enlighten me My -father las unfortunate very. Perhaps I ought to say that his own weaknesses were the active Causes of his misfortunes; but I do not  like to say that, for none knew wha t he may have suffered in his youth , and miserable detractors said it too ofte who were unworthy to t ie his shoes. ie as a enman,  :'kn ow.  A           Hnlema w. a,.., ,e. tieman, I :'this fact had ha pily b-,ueelno-c by eduain  If s OW A enlenal b brth b beedn, by eucation. If uown to my- early associates, my lf- e mig t have been the pleasanter. "ty fattor martied, too, il this country. The m e n  ot a happy one Over this I would also Maw a v eil, so far as well I m ay An lnScglishian's idea of the du y of a vif e, and 'an American wroman's of that of'a husband nigh t easily clash, i as those experienced 'in both perfectl we ll kno I the mig)ht          hIv kgedan . . ..ow. Still thy est have agreed and been. happy, had they been left to emve  -She was a pu'e-minded and conscientious w omai , *s       woX   380 *    . MARIAN ROOKE; OR,- and, albeit he gave her much cause for complaint, she- -would have gained an influence which might have softened and con- trolled his foibles and laidc the basis for a happy future. She was very young at the time of their marriage, and her character had scarcely had time to mature. When it might have done so, with results all-important to the whole lives of both my parents and that of their child, my mother's brothers interfered, and sowed the seeds of incurable dissension between herself and her husband. They took advantage of mx father's temporary absence -an absence unfortunately connected with his besetting weak- ness-to poison her mind against him. They persuaded her to return a letter reversed, and otherwise unanswered, which lhe had sent her. The expedient succeeded, and my father and mother, in this world at least, never met .again. "These men, the brothers, thought they were doing their sister a service. As. to my father, they were utterly incapable of understanding or appreciating him. They were men in busi- ness, not exactly tradesmen, but a step or two above it; and with true New England feeling they conceived that their regu- lar attention to, daily routine, and their smug companionship with other common-place money-grubbers like themselves, en- dowed them with a worldly status far above that of my father, 'who was poor, irregular in his habits, and- a gentleman. While they thought they were doing their sister a service, they were not sorry for an opportunity to humiliate a man they had never quite understood, but had always somewhat feared. He possessed accomplishments which they at once envied and disliked. He had personal courage and artistic tastes, which they pretended to despise or to consider affected ; but which, in reality, they knew to 'be the badges and signs of a superior nature to their own, the marks of blood which no prosperity could have emphasized, any more than any misfortune or even vice could altogether obliterate." "I know the kind of man you mean,"' said Mary Anne, softly. '"These men were vindictive, too, as well as short-sighted and cowardly. When my father married, although not rich, he was affluent as compared with them. They were young in the world, needy, almost friendless, almost homeless. He took (hem by the hand, aided them to the utmost of his power, en- couraged, advanced, stood by them. They were of the true reptile breed, and they never forgave him. They got on and prospered, as the little world went in which they moved, and at the same tinie my father had been going downward. Iis faults   ):,           . ' rd 2      THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       31 X,3 were patent enough, but they-were not the men to school him on them. They attempted to do so, however, and they never pardoned the rebuke which they had thus'provoked. "Therefobre, when they had contrived to. bring about a rup- ture between my father and mother; when they had managed to put asunder those whom God had joined together; they went about with busy lies and innuendoes and prevarications, to the end that public opinion might trample my father still deeper into the mire, and that my mother, well plied with their accounts of his misconduct during the term of their separation, should learn to regard as final' and insuperable the barrier they had erected between herself and her husband. It became so.; the efforts of a few kindlier hearts, who remembered the brightness and promise of the early days of their marriage, for they were both very handsome and attractive people, never surmounted it. "But New England is very observant and sharp-tongued wilenever, from whatever cause, any suspension occurs of Oldi- nary marital relations. If man and wife must perforce separate, they had best keep out of the territory of the Pilgrims. My mother was too proud to explain, to remonstrate, or to propi- tiate, and she was neither rich enough nor strong enoughi to brave the world's opinion. Her position grew more equivocal and more difficult as time wore on. Then her brothers, who had young families growing up, were thriving in their callings, and were full of social ambition, treated her with more and more distankeo and coldness. Finally, the slender thread snapped altogether, and they never met at all. Thus my poor mother was deserted by the kindred who had brought about her great- est misfortune in life. She lingered on for a few years and died. Some pbople called her mortal illness by one name, and some by another; but she died of a broken heart." "And your father?" "He, too, died,; it was a year before her, and the circum- stances were very painful. His death, no doubt, accelerated her own.   Meanwhile, I had been sent to various schools.. I was ten years old at the time of the separation, and for some time after was left in my mother's unmolested charge. - She did all. she could for me, nay; more than with her slender means she was justified in doing; but, as I said before, she was conscien- tious, and would do more rather than less than her duty. After niy eleventh birthcay there was some  painful litigation, and it resulted in my  going to my father; but neither he nor my mother lived  until my twelfth." "You were, then, left an orphan?!"   32         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, i'Yes; one of my mothers brothers, the one who had per- haps most heart pf the three, sent me to a boarding-school, and afterwards to another and another. I was miserable in all; yet I know not that he could have done better for me. The boys always found out by some inexplicable, but never-lacking in- stinct, that there was something wrong in my family matters. And they were worthy sons of their New England sires, for they made me feel it more bitterly than if it had arisen through some crime of my own. They also discovered, by more ob- vious means, that I was very poor-a sin even worse than the other. The first reproach might readily have been condoned, had the conditions of the second- been reversed, but the two to- gether were inexpiable. They shunned me, pointed at me-be- tween their malignant whispers, wrote bitter taunts in fly- leaves of my school books which fell into their hands.. I don't know that they ever analyzed their opinions, but if they did they resolved them down to the firm basis that a boy whose parents lived apart, and who at the same time had no money, ought not, as a matter of propriety, to be allowed to live; and, God knows, if they entertained such a conviction, I shared it with them. "I had few companions, and hardly ever joined in the usual boyish sports. I would not obtrude myself, and I was rarely invited. Those of my schoolmates who were better off-by far the larger number-seemed to despise me, and, at all events, they avoided me as if I were a Pariah. The very few who were even humbler than myself or younger, or more ignorant, usually discovered that I was the sonof an Englishman, and cherished a prejudice on that account. I believe they thought my father had some mysterious connection with Greville's wickedness, or had had a hand in the preparation of the Stamp Act. Nearly all these boys were mean and acquisitive; they were shop- keepers and money-grubbers in embryo. They swapped knives, gambled for marbles, and were continually over-reaching each other in juvenile speculations, thus actively preparing for the business of life. They had all the greed, the narrowness, the sectarian pride, and exclusiveness of their progenitors in little; you will not wonder that I liked them no better than they liked me- "I was the son of an Englishman, and few transplanted trees will thrive. From my earliest youth I found, irrespective of human beings and their peculiarities, much to displease me and rouse my aversion in surrounding objects and in natural vicissitudes. I disliked the burning heat of the summers, and   :v     s     TIME QUEST FOR FORmTUNE.        83 the piercing, dismal cold of the winters. I 'disliked the square, white-painted, wooden houses which covered the hillsides and villages, with the treeless wastes which 'surrounded, and the mathematically straight roads which led to them. I disliked the unmeaning, firagile meeting-houses, with their monotonous spires, -their canting preachers, and the innumerable and inde- scribable sectarians, their congregations. I yearned for the soft, moist-temspered elime of the olden home, with its winding green lanes, its masses of comfortable foliage, its stout-built little cot- tages all covered with thatch and running vines, its dear crum- bling old churches, all reverend and gray with time, and rich with stores of ivy which had taken so long to grow. Was there necessarily an inseparable bond between unlimited free- dom and unlimited ugliness?  Must forest trees always be destroyed in republics, and where universal suffrage is must the streets of cities be like -chess-boards?" "You speak of the accidental peculiarities of a new country, not of those of a republic. What you craved comes as the work of time, and not of kings. The republics of Greece and Rome left temples and high places glorious and venerable enough." "Yes; but I was a boy then, and naturally associated politi- cal conditions with their repellent accompaniments; and still, now that I am a man, I find that mental peculiarities present many analogies to physical ones. I find now, as I found then, that the processes which sweep away nobility, national religion, class privileges, whatever their advantage, bring no substitutes as yet for the incentiv'es they displace. It may be untrub that extension of suffrage makes the popular choice of little value, but I know that abrogation of the things I name has practically left -no spur for ambition save the hope of wealth. Wherever I turned in my boyhood I saw nothing else. I saw that if I would hold any position in .the world, wield any power, be suc- cessful in love-anything--I must first of all get money." "Be successfiul in love?. repeated Mary Anne. "Yes. I am coming to the end of my sad, and I fear dull, tale. As you have seen, my childhood was lonely and loveless; my youth was sadder still, for, as I grew older, I felt even more keenly the slurs that were cast upon my station and my origin. Books were almost nmy only companions. To this, when I had reached the age of sixteen, there came one particular exception. I had been placed in a country attorney's office to read law. A small sum left by my poor fither sufficed to pay for my schooling, and to give me this little start in the world-scarcely more. I was, therefore, happily spared what would have been inexpressibly 2*   4 odious-the being under pecuniary obligation to my uncle. My solicitude was probably misplaced; for I have since reflected that, had this small sum not existed, he would have thrust me forth long before to shift for myself. In this attorney's office I found a young man, one of the few generous nfiatures I have ever encountered. He was the son of a well-to-do farmer, of Lenox, in Berkshire county. In our vacation he invited me to visit his father's house. I accepted, and there for the first time met his sister. She was very beautiful, and her name was Vir- ginia." ^ Was she fair or dark?" "Fair, very fair. With hair of gold and skin of pearl. She had one charm rare in a New England girl-a low, musical voice; and another not so rare, a sweetly-winning smile. I won't weary you with a conventional love story. We found much to like in each dther; for her, none could help being attracted by her, and I suppose I was fascinated into taking great pains to conceal my faults. My visit was repeated again and again, and at last, with her acquiescence, I asked MAr. Chester to sanction our engagement. He listened with kindness, and I thought regarded my sufiit with favor. When I had concluded, however, he seemed embarrassed, and after a pause Said: " I like ye very much, Mr. Gifibrd, and so does John, and so, I expect, does Virginia; but you see there's been a good deal o' talk-your folks, you know, was-that is, you know your father was---' "' My father was a gentleman, Mr. Chester.' "' I don't know anything about that; but how much money did he leave ye?' "I was forced to confess that, at the end of my probation in the lawyer's office, I should not have more than a couple of 'hundred dollars left. Mr Chester's countenance fell. He went on: "I woudn't a cared so much 'bout your folks, you know; though it's a pity-and your father, you know-not but that I've heerd he was a nice man-only folks will talk-but if he hain't left ye no money, what d'ye calculate to git married on?' "I explained that it was my hope, after being admitted to the bar, to obtain an income through the practice of my profession. "Ah that's dreadful uncertain, ain't it? When I put John in Squire Tarbox's office he told me right out that a young man was'nt likely to git more the fust five year than he'd git 'by goint' huckleberryin', and John's arrangements was made accordingly.   , THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        U0 i)W. A.. "This was a dark prospect, and I knew what the farmer said ;  was true. I was not-or rather had not been-without the usual dreams of boyhood, wherein we see ourselves achieving wonders altogether out of the common way. But I knew that even if uncommon obstacles did not lie in my path-which, how- ever, they always did-the average chances at the New England country bar had not been too sombrely painted. I resolved to go to Boston. There a wider field presented itself, and prefer- : ment might come faster. Mr. Chester seemed pleased with my resolution and encouraged it. "If ye go to Boston ye may git better chances certainly; and I'll tell ye what I'll do. You've got a year longer to read before you're admitted? Well, if you come to me in three years' tiime, and show me three thousand dollars-that'sjest the amount  of a mo'gage lyin' on this 'ere farm-all your own moneymind- I dunno as I'll oppose things between you and Virginia. But if this is agreed, I won't have nothin' gin out about engagements in the mean time.' Upon this basis our bargain was struck. Within the year, I passed, and went to Boston. I struggled hard, read early and late, tasked my energies and my ingenuity to the last degree to fight upward. But it was all in vain. No one seemed to wish to employ me. I had no friends, no influence. My uncles, who might have assisted me, kept aloof  They even went further, and, as I have since heard, secretly disparaged my capacity and my character. Their vengeance on my father was not yet  appeased. The three years passed and I was poorer than ever. Just then the news came of the discovery of the gold in Cali- fornia, and I at once determined to make my way thither. I went into Berkshire, explained my position and my new deter- mination, and, with some difficqlty, arranged with Mr. Chester for a probation of two years more." - And does she-Virginia-love you?" "She has often told me so." "You will correspond?" "I am to find letters from her on our arrival." Such was the story of Hugh Gifford, and such was the manner in which it was communicated to Mary Anne. She accepted it as the record of a highly sensitive nature grown morbid through the stress of a f4Als position: and thwarted sensibilities. His yearnings for the life and scenery of the oldworn-out land across the sea were the reflexes of much reading; growths sown in discontent and stimulated by the want of sympathy with those Pr quad hi, His strong desire for gold was, to her, something   3G         MARIAN ROMEU ; A c* repugnant and unnatural, and doubtless it lowered him somewhat in her esteem On the other hand, there was that in his iso- lation, his delicacy, and his apparent need of sympathy, which constantly attracted, her. Whether or not she had gone so far as to allow her feelings to become seriously interestedin the young man we need not pause to inquire; but it is certain that the announcement of his engagement gave Mary Anne a sudden shock, an unexpected pang. Hugh Gifford was one of the last men of whom you would think to hear it said that he was en- gaged to be married; and yet you would have been puzzled, as Mary Anne was, to explain the reason why. After a while you might come to the Conclusion, as she did, that therewas so much self-restraint, so much reticence in his character, as to make it improbable that he would ever go so far with any woman asto say that he loved lher. This sort of man is very generally misunderstood, and almost always misleads those who seek to  ' fathom him. He is like a mill pond, which the higher and closer the dam the more sweeping and abundant is the flood it pours forth when the barrier is once overleaped.      '  Whatever the girl's sentiments might have become, whatever  seeds might have found lodgment in her breast capable of quick-l  e  ing into blossoms, this name of Virginia had been a spell, if.  not to frieeze and destroy, at least to thrust them away far from  the light into her heart's innermost recesses If any observei could have suspected her feelings before, they should never have groundsfor suspicion hereafter. Every avenue was guard- l ed henceforth with trusty sentinels of maidenly reserve. Mary Anne and Gifford were: good friends for the future, and nothing more. In the capacity of friends then, they had many a discussion ! and, perhaps, some usefal interchange of thought. It has been : seen that Mary Anne's opinions of New England hadl been as- .; Sailed; notto say outraged, by the tale which she had heard.; Ever since she had learned to read, New England, and especially Massachusetts, had been cherished in her convictions -as the - happiest andjustest of communities; the Utopia where, if ever social and political justice had existed on earth they could ; be sought and found. In New Entgland was labor respected   , intellect cherished, virtue canonized gray hairs reverenced. In ' New England was truth discovered, thought unshackled, merit  sought out with diligence and crowned with honor. In New   , England ta the place of sanctuary, the refuge ofthe oppressed, ! the cradle of li'berty! 'To her, Boston was more than Mecca to a true believer, and i ' . , s                  , t^   THE, QUEST FOR FORTUE..        37 Faneuil Hall greater than the Holy Temple.   And was this hallowed country, this vaunted intellectual and moral paradise, this exemplar among the nations, no more than the home of a vulgar and base-minlded plutocracy?   The lair of a crew of idolaters setting up a worship more ignoble and more sordid thanl that of the veriest slaves who ever crawled to thrust their necks under the foot of a tyrant? They were in fine condition truly,  these republicans, to despise the subjects of kings!  There might be something at least of dignity in such a potentate- ancient lineage, the association of a magical name with heroic deeds of the past, long-time consent, and reverence of ancestors; but what could there be about this wretched parvenu, this, mon- arch of yellow earth, that the children of the Puritans should fall down and worship him! Alas alas! that the pmurest and most aspiring should be little abler than the meanest to shake off burthens, to shiver the yoke of oppressors, without. taking on of themselves yokes and bur- thens of different but no nobler species, in the room of those they have bled and died to break and to destroy! After all, what right had Hugh Gifford to speak thus of his home, of the land which gave him birth? HiIs views were un- just, distorted, seen with a jaundiced eye; for by his own con- fession he was disappointed, nay, disgusted with his lot., Her own estimate of Newe England might be the truer one yet; and still had he not lived there all the days of his life, and she, not one? Was he not better fitted to form a judgment, to express a censure? Perhaps; but then again she remembered howl lov- ingly he had spoken of Old England-of her green fields and hoary ruins, her placid streams and happy rural homes-of the order and comfort of her society, where all were by the law equally protected, whether living in haughty castles or in those lowly, comfortable cottages: What did he know of the Old England more than she knew of the New? He had never been in the one any more than she had been in the other. And she- she could tell a bitterer tale of wrong and oppression than had ever fallen to his lot; had greater cause to magnify the beauty of a distant picture by comparison with the poverty or discomfort of that which is near. Evidently they had the same disposition, how different soever their natures otherwise might be-the dis- position which comforts and gilds so much of life in this iron world of ours, to idealize the unknown. i       38         MARIAN OOK; OR,  $8x           .ol o. CI-HAPTER IV. TEE was that about ^al An"ne to more than. justify even TnrRE u      '.= A n  tO:   She wasa TnFP F 'Wa thatab: ^.i. of Luke Arjmstong. the extravagant admuation ofL  e r more attenti on in a woman,.indeed, who Vwould have ateenature -o n balroomthanj on a western prairie; since where nature 'ondon ball-room than(o . .., lo for physical types to is most unrchecked and luxu iant welo o h^iav thyps to  con'espond as mattes   o   ll..... unight lhave theehtn reaarding her, of Diana and      au,; b u a  e sure to feel, a moment aftet,   tha, there was too much womn .li- ness about the gil to inicat  e her  ari was an ease and freedom about her carriage which, for somehinex licabl eason, is uncommon with American women: sor   e   Euro   ano zsplanted, b goes for, although the EMropeal }n1ta ..bori naj charac- 7m -latr cemiamaolnl unquestionably acquire, oner ter, a 'adignity in movement rsticsf the parti'ular ones of grace and aige tr no moveen * - t         Aeri c0lan savagmentrpo and bearing, so marlred in the Amero sued in his civilized successor.     through being Perhaps ar Anne was the gainert in grace      I ' untramnelled'with unsightly crinoline; yet, as this was an ie- n   mieod  in  o  o  ith the Armstrongs, mot er ma  nity sher senjyd i cow menWsohisticate d Bridget, neiter ' with lt1'I uisohi} it, and daughter, as also w, . . .  .  rl ..u.... Sat   ]l Chneeandeeturt g ^^ uthe hand get ofxe wled or stood Elike her, it was a ared .t ag ofo  s lwas to be credited for the advIantage. de limbs, not alt wic-dh was to  os r e1t &Cd,          at beg tonfined in an iron  ten, movedwith Ireedom, an being     onfined m an I --'-ch the wee mad e, without any answered the purpose lof wh t             ' Of i  cacy, such as the admirers and promioters o suggestiona   of detecting in their absence. he girl was irn calgesneio pd in de-respect forher'massive black locks uncnvenional in ano "L i'rie     akwinrds with were-neither frizzled nor peadded notained  wkh  th thatwChinese and eye-;-orruing effect sometime popular with th %ye-tortur      the hmir grew thatx Ches of fas . eo r forehead was high, but expets o xas on. a*gh l  ow, so lowf as to be-almost a defect., and was parted straight roh low's.. The eyebrows and lashes were, like ti, hair, across the boNVs Th I ...,iaeseewe      the eyes of a jetty black; the lter w-uld  seemed,  when they sly lengthy and -sweeping,  were closed, superfluousl lege -noh to justify such abun- larfe e 4e u a  odened ta he eswre  was srht, the, ips perfect, ald tgic dantc* ntis. The, nose was -gra' aaut curtain    la   (Ic ha fauit, it -was that the teeth dazzlingly white. If the face ha o expressed, perhaps, too much will chin w. as'atorbie too la ith'g e rest of t etrs o en wstrc a r  mn with the, rest of the featmes."   ' THE H QUEST FOR FORTUNE.      9 As we have seen, she wore a gown of plain worsted stuff, which fitted closely to a figure whose comeliness left nothing to desire. The hands and feet, without being remarkably small, w ere beautifally shaped; and althoug h the latter m ight .have ap- peared to better advantag e than in their deerskin moccasins with sole of elk, which were found best for general purposes on the prairie, and the former had become somewhat browned by the sun, their natural symmetry could not be altogether concealed. The inner nature of tis young woman was well expressed in her physical development. So far as enthusiasm, ardency, strength of the inclinations , warmth of the attachments may go, she was a true child of the South. With less heart she might have been cruel, and might still be revengeful: with less intel- lect she might have been passionate and voluptuous. But h ap- pily the elements were tolerably well balanced, and whatever might lie below the surface, there was enough above it to make Mary Anne dangerously attractive. It was not surprising, then, that Luke Armstrong should be attracted; but it certainly seemed remarkable that Hugh Gifford was not. So much so, in truth, to Luke him self, that he lost all sense of jealousy, knowing as he did that the pair were much to- gether, when he thought of it.- Two beings could scarcely have been more opposite than the southern girl and the young New Englander. He was slight, not tall, but deep-chested and strongly built, with short, light hair, tending to curl, Saxon-looking eyes and complexion, and a rather firmly set mouth and chin. He presented few, if any, of the national traits, which require, as a rule, more than one gener- ation to bring forth, and his speech had none of the twang com- men in his section. This deficiency, by no means regarded as meet for congratulation, was imputed by Dick Railes, Jabe Fitch, and their fellows, to what they termed " too much schola'in'. " If there had been nothing approaching to flirtation, however, between these young people, there grew up a great deal of friendly and sympathetic intercourse; and although the news of Hugh's engagement might have been unwelcome to her, there was nothing in Mary Anne's subsequent manner which could be perceptibly traced to such Ifeeling. She was not quite as ready afterwards, perhaps, to speak of her own child- hood, albeit she had promised to do so in the way of reciprocity when Hugh had described his own; but she would not break her word, and, after being once or twice reminded, she pro- ceeded to fulfil it. "My story is very brief," she said, "and has little, I fear, to   4' O    -    MARIAN  OOKE; OR, interest, because, until within the twelvemonth passed, it has contained so little of pain. The first sights I can remember are those of warm colors, loving faces, and rich scenery, of boun- teousness and affluence both within and without. The first sounds are those of voices melodious with affection, of brilliant music tastefully played, of the songs of birds, and the pleasant murmurs of brooks which ran through our plantation to swell the Mississippi. The first odors are those of roses, of orange- blossoms, and magnolias. Those were dear days, and I was  very-very happy.'? "How can you be drawn toward our bleak, sterile New Eng- land, if your happiness sprang from associations such as these?" "These are mere gratifications of the senses are they not? They may be pleasant in reminding us of those we loved, who were with us when surrounded'by'them. New England I have honored for something which, with all its blessings and delights, was not to be found in my early home. As a child I did not miss it, and these sights, and sounds, and odors, are always -with me when I think of those who were inexpressibly dear. My father almost idolized me. There was nothing that money could buy, nothing that anxious affection could desire, which was wanting to minister to my health, my enjoyments, my educa- tion."  "Ah, you had always wealth, then?" said Hugh, thoughtfully. "Always. I thought to be very unhappy now, but one of the comforts-the consolations-seems to me to be without it." The young man shook his head incredulously. "It is quite natural you should not think so; perhapslyou may hereafter. We had a plantation near the great river, and here we passed the summers;-summers full of light and joy; with pleasant friends and choicest books; with charming drives and lovely views. There could notwell be a happier life than mine was then, and I remember my fondest wish was that it should remain so always, I was not sent to school like the daughters of neighboring planters, so I did not see many of them; and, in-' deed, most of our friends came from a distance; but I had pri- rate teachers for my father wished me to be accomplished, and would spare neither money nor pains to that end. In the winters we went to New Orleans, my father and a sister of his, to whom we were both much attached, and I. We always took the same servants and our house was always ready for us in town. There we had the opera-I was passionately fond of. the opera, and races, and parties, and sometimes balls, though my father was particular where I went, and on such occasions insisted on his    - E        THE QUE ST FOR PORTAN. '  )ii: 41 ;.1 sister as well as himself being one of the party. This, of course ' was when, I grew up--I       artY. This, -of coure, X  twaenty now."ge up- I mean five years ago-I am one-and- twenty Dow." "These people we are with must be strangely offensive--I :i  mean very distasteful to you. "- "No; they   are vev r good and kind. It is not their fault that :i11lilthy aveneerbee i s ciety, or spent money on accomplsh- '?;?: ments, or learned to speak quite correctly.'They ae all brusque someti'mes, but I know th  ey mean no ha,  and little - does not, give me pain IS      ,hr'ac 0' -owith good he ain.  Ihave been 'used to ignorant people wiath odh s all my life, and never learned to despise them, B  esides , they have given me a sanctuary-a refuge , "A refuge?', "Yes; I shal come to that soon. As I have said, I was vetj a happy ch,    and the best of fathers y v - nai your mothers were ca?" re      wasenot bridg ht enough at the moment fgor HughGiffbrclto see m fit. wso "I never remember seeing her; she died when I was velr-- rey young, and those about me neer poke of her." the misfortuneed ab oad th per haps  o, not a b  road; but it was lo r he r d eath before I was -,a enuht nesappy schildhings, andth beto fahers "And your father-did he never speak of her?" "Smtihenamre wnof  he wer allone together; but I had r athern brigPray forgive ne; had I thought the subject was painful-'  yno right to reserve my contfidteUdncthe. aftier yohave gie me ' ay I exat o such literal recompense. I quesind be-  "Alas, 'remar  sh e was, V er, sery unhappy n I "But let us speak n o more of that; go on about yourself"  od tenough        t upneand buhti a in s.,tandgh that tiereho 4olS fathel-die never speak- of her?^ - no   S  S   ^ itc is'n,     painful, no s itgh   shul nott  d?^^^  be. Besides, I have  nouright to reevemcofdnce after yon have given me sad t o h ave sWe he r/song '-bhs e vrecompen s  I questioned  be-n Bue floetrs wheno evrertig aout th e .ibathedo in wab'u,   42         MARIAN BOOKE; OR, genial sunshine when the'ir needs and their pleasures are lavishy supplied without labor or care, when their thoughts are farthest from the damp, dusky night, and they make no provision for the pinching winter? The night must come in its due course, the winter must be felt in its season, but they, the gay and thoughtless ones, have no heed for the one or the other. So was. it with me through all my early life. My father's care prepared me for everything exeept to meet adversity." "He hoped to shield you always frori it." "Doubtless; and for me, I never (dreamed that such hopes are never realized. Perhaps, too, his views had more than usually exists to julstify them. We were rich; and it was probable that we should always so refrain." "There was much to warrant hope in that." "Ah, you think so much of money; and yet, after all, what did it d6 for me?" "Everything, I should say, from your story so far, or next to everything. Does not all the happiness which surrounded you, the luxury which lapped your childhood, the pleasures which gilded your youth, the travel which enlarged, the tuition which instructed your understanding, did not these all depend upon the possession of wealth?" "They did; 'and yet perchance I had been happier if the wealth had never been-if I had been born as poor as I now am, and am likely to be for the future." Hugh looked at her with his incredulous smile. "How easy it is to talk of the nothingness of riches, of the luxury of honest poverty! How muc h we hear of it in our pulpits; how much 'we read of it in our newspapers! Turn where we will, we are confrontedP with endless babble of the dignity of labor, of honest toil of hard-handed industry-! a And what is the sum and sub- stance of all? A bubble-a most illusory, transparent, and empty bubble! Why, the .preachers and the scribblers who teach this doctrine are the most grasping and avaricious of all!' What do they care for, think of, pray for, whether rising, sitting, walking, or sleeping? Gold!-,gold-nothing but gold!" "Gold," murmured Ike, as he lay half asleep, his red head pillowed as usual on Lion's curly back; "'Gold," he repeated, 'they're -all arter it! Hoosier fronom the backwoods, pedlar from the town, chaps firom Old England, chaps from New England, farmer to -buy new steers, farmer's wife to buy new chiny. All arter the gold!-nothing but gold!" I And yet," said Mary Anne, gently, and yet it brought me the first suffering of my life, it brought me its greatest crisis of Y   ::'R ,      THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       43 43 danger and pain; and wheIn I pray, it is always that wealth, or the love of it, may not make my life for the future altogether wret;chled. "                   - , "Piddles," said Hugh, "or fantasies. The gold is reakl tan- gible, solid."                    , "Solid gold," echoed the half-wit; "Ike knows! where 'tis; acres of it, oceans of it, mountains of it! But he won't tell; oh, no! 'Twoulcdkind o' 'hurt ye and set ye back to git too rich all in a minute! 'So we'll keep it for ourselves, Lion and me-Lion and me."   Hle smoothed and patted the dog's head as if sealing the compact, and Lion looked at his master with a wise, trustful acquiescence in his watchful eyes, as Ike turned heavily over and fell asleep again.             , "Not riddles--not fantasies," continued Mary Anne, " but hard, pitiless, realities. It was because w e were rich, and because the fame of it went abroad, that the first bitter hours I had ever known came upon me.  When I was eighteen, there came on a visit to our country home a  gentleman we had met the Winter before in !ew Orleans. He was young, rich, gifted, it was said, and be- longed to one of the proudest families- in Louisiana. My father liked hima much, and rather courted his society; urged him indeed, to pay us this visit with an object that I only afterwards divined. What object you can readily guess." !"He wished him to become your suitor?" "Ho did; and in truth there was much about him   to at- tract any woman, especially one so young and inexperienced as I was. My father was wise, too; he imposed upon me no -com- maid, scarce even a wish, but I could not help seeing that it was agreeable to him  that Mr. Du Solle and I should be much together-riding, walking, playing, the various pursuits and amusements of a country life." "Mr. Du Solle was handsome?" "He was thoug!ht so; to m u he always seemed too dark; he had a   Spanish face witl glittering teeth; handsome when he smiled, but forbidding and harsh if he frowned. He was agree- able enlloh, howTever and evidently took pains to make himself liked. Still, I felt sure from the moment I saw his and my father's aim, I felt sure that I could never love him, and I think he knew it too. But matters went on, as they will in sneh cases and it came to be generally bruited about the neighborhood that we were engraed. -   I often reproach myself with this now. I was cowardly; had I  faced my father's anger and his indignation, had I told him betimes that I could never love 'that man, the terrible consequences might have been spared."    "         MAIAN ROOKE; OR, "Terrible?"  "Most terrible, as you will hear. The time came at last when Mr. Dr Solle declared himself. He asked me to become his wife. I was forced to be candid then, and I told him the truth. He. leaded, remonstrated, wept. I would change, perhaps. I felt certain that I never should, but was touched by the evident  sincerity of his feelings. He acknowledged that the reputation of my father's great wealth had at first attracted him, but pro- tested that he now loved me for myself alone. Alas! for man's duplicity and falsehood-I believed him. I scould not promise to-love him, but I yielded to his passionate entreaty, and agreed to delay a week before giving him a final dismissal. "In that week he made a horrible discovery. By what means I knew not then-know-not even now. I did not even know the nature of the discovery itself, so religiously had the truth  been kept from me, until another event more awful still had oc- curTed as its consequence. One day-the third after our inter- view--I had been riding, attended only by a negro servant, for it had been agreed Mr. Du Solle was not to be my escort during the week of probation. I alighted at the portico fionting the main hall of the house, when, with a face like midnight, he sud- denly confronted me.  "So! he hissed, rather than said, 'so you are a party--you, with your amiable father-to this exquisite conspiracy!' "' Sir', I stammered, outraged and astonished, 'what con- spiracy mean you-how dare you?' "'Oh, spare your pretended amazement, he cried, furious with anger. 'It is. likely that eighteen years should pass, and you, forsooth, be still in'ignorance.' "He went on for some moments pouring forth heated abuse of which I cannot now remember a word, but which redoubled my agitation and surprise. "' Sir, I gasped at last, 'this is incredible, infamous. Let me pass; let me go to my father! "' Your father!' shouted Du Solle, your father! Infamous, dishonored as he is. Let him come to me! let him answer for his attempt to :disgrace me! The villain! To seek to entrap me, unawares; to link my name, my blood, with the daughter of his          '                      r "I heard no more, and no more was said, for my father was by my side. He struck Du Solle with dreadful rapidity several  heavy blows with his fists, and then kicked him down the steps under my horse's feet. What followed I know not, for I fainted. "Let me make as brief as may be the horrible sequel. They   in;           , THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        45 45 fought the next day-a protracted and barbarous duel-and my father was brought home a corpse. "Even while I was yet in my agony over this cold clay, my nurse, a mulatto woman, who dearly loved me from my birth, poured into my terror-stricken ears the secret whose disclosure had led to this catastrophe. She showed me ample proofs of what she would never, never have revealed, as with bitter tears and lamentations she explained, but for a circumstance which made such a step inevitable. 'AMy fatAher had left no will. His relatives were coming in haste to claim the estate; and hear it, O GOD of Heaven! so far from inheriting my father's wealth I must fly, fly, if I would not, by remaining, add to its sum in my own unhappy person. "I did fly, with speed, with secresy, and at night. I had help at first, for every hand on the plantation would have aided me; but after leaving it there were two days and a half of travel before reaching St. Louis, and I was in constant dread of the telegraph. However, I got to St. Louis in safety. "Thus you see that, in my case at least, wealth was not alto- gether a blessing, since it had warought me the greatest possible curse, the most irreparable affliction. You see, too, that how- eyer they may appear so, the motives are not all alike that impel us to this Western pilgrimage; for you go for the sake of Gold, I for Liberty!" CHAPTER V. OUR travellers had crossed the great chain of the Rocky Moun- tains upon a line between what is now known as Pike's Peak and the pass called by the early Spanish explorers Sangre de . Christo. The little stream whereon they had encamped was in fact one of the mountain sources of the Rio Grande del Norte a river which, although it has its rise westward of the great chain finds its way through the pass bearing the same name with itself, and ultimately flows into the Gulf of Mexico, form- ing the boundary between the latter country and Texas. The next water they would cross in their progress westward would doubtless be an affluent of the Colorado, which empties into  the Gulf of California, and the party could then fairly consider tself on the Pacific slope..   fcO        SHAKIA. KVU1-^ t re-  The general aim had been to make a course as near due vest as possible, and their present iatitude differed but little rom that of St. Louis,- their point of departure. In this policy  Seth Armstrong had been materially aided by thq observations  Af Dr. Landale, who, notwithstanding the scarce concealed con- empt of Dick Railes, was constant -ill determining their daily  9, : position by means of his instruments. The fact that Indians md trappers could find their way without such assistance   - , ;eepned to the backwoodsman quite conclusive evidence against St ts utility, but as he could make converts of neither the Doctor ";: nor Seth Axmstrong, his conservative objections to science were mnheeded. His daily jest that "the Doctor was goin' to shoot  ;he sun agin," had little effect, therefore, save upon the sympa-  ;hizing intelligence of Nahum Pelter, who, whenever he heard,  received it as a criticism of the first water and pungency.  Whereupon Luke, whose nature it was to try, as he said,to  :make things run easy," -would observe deprecatingly that  ; Dick was a stubborn cuss about the tl'odolite."      ' A "Humph," grunted thie Doctor. "All ignorance is stubborn, A7 [ take it. If Master Railes were made to go through the first  Four books of Euclid-if he once got an idea that the c'ircle ?!; means anything beyond the shape of the sun or the end of his '?! powder-horn, he'd be pliable enough."            ! :: "He don't like book learnin', he'd never take to it." 9   $ "Of cowrse not; so for him a theodolite will be a gimcravk,  and a sextant will be shooting the sun till the end of the chapter." ? "Well, I don't s'pose common folks know much more in the  X:j old country than they know here."  : "Except to hold their tongues-less about most things else.  f And their betters are not always so very- wise either. There are ; plenty in England as stupid as your people here, who think when ? there's a famine over sea which comes of too many mouths, or  poor crops, or laziness, or all three, that it's all the fault of that : rotten old monarchy and the wicked aristocracy. There are  ; plenty there who'll swear by-and-by, when you get into trouble '  from slavery and too many voting immigrants, that it's all the '... fatult of your republican institutions-institutions which, in nine ; essentials-out- often, are precisely the same as their own. We're  all shooting the sun to people who don't know what we're   :-l doing.                           ! X "Yes," argued poor Luke, somewhat bewildered, "but we  try to remedy that by spreading education so's to teach folks to : know what you're doing."       ,           XII "Ay, there's good in what you do-some good. But there's  X /!   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         47 f                           . '  a deal of harm, too. It doesn't do a republican boy any good in the long run to cram hilm with lies about monarchies, or vice versa; only the world isn't wise lenough yet to fined it out." "I expect ourn's about the best system there is goin',"5 said Luke, taking refuge in the most current generality he could think of. "No doubt it is for you, and it's lucky you think so." Such a concession was quite satisfactory to Luke, who would go on hig way rejoicing. The Doctor, however, was more wary in being entrapped into discussion with such stern patriots as Dick Railes or Nahum Pelter, to whom his blunt tenets were not short of flat blasphemy, to be argued to the death in all the stump eloquence they had ever heard of or could master. Still the little circle had become attached and harmonious with the cement of their common cares and hopes; and perhaps there were none but would separate firom each of the others with regret. The morning after the halt broke bright and clear, although the sun was tardy in showing himself above the steeps behind them. Long before he did so the camp was a scene of bustling activity; for, although the halt was nominally for rest and re- freshment, there was much to do in the way of comfort and cleanliness, which for the past few weeks had been perforce neglected. Thus, Castle Armstrong was to be cleared out, the remaining packages of provisions to be overhauled and aired, clothes to be washed, rifes and other arms to be cleaned and a score of minor needs'and duties to be attended to during the respite from the march. Half the small stores originally stowed in the provision wagon had now been consumed, and yet when those which were left came to be spread about the ground during the process of scrubbing, it seemed as if it were impossible to get them in again. But Mrs. Armstirong was the possessor of. mar-  vellous ingenuity,' and, had her spouse permitted her to bring all she wished with the expedition-double the quantity really brought-no doubt she would have managed to pack it in the wagons.  "There was that 'ere Ike," she complained mournfully to Kitty, as she rigorously supervised the hidden operations of Bridget, in the wagon, whence issued profusion of steam and soapsuds. ' There was that ere Ike, and that big heathen, Lion, -father would bring them, and yet he'd leave behind a'most all my chiny. Not but that the poor critter's well enough, and done chores round the farmn ever since he was a little tow-headed boy, and allus earned his salt, if he is silly, poor thing; and    48         MA3ANT RBOOKE; o1, praps he wouldn't a taken to other folks after all these years, or they might a been harsh with him; but that 'ere pesky Lion-- why, he'll eat more meat in a day than I kin in a week t' "But, mother dear, you know Lion lives entirely on the scraps and bones nobody else can touch; and he's a great protection to the camp; and he pulled me out of the water once,when my hoop went flyin' over the bank, and I went flyin' after it; and you know, mother, poor Ike never could git along without Lion." "I know, I know," admitted Mrs. Armstrong, melting- quite visibly, "but I might a had my chiny"  "And you know, mother, the chiny could'nt have walked, or ridden a horse, or taken care of itself like Ike or Li on . No, nor Ike and Lionwould'nt a sold in Califforny for more'n ten times what they cost down to Xenia." "And did brave Lion really save your life?* asked Mary Anne, with interest. I don't know that I can quite say that," answered Kitty, in- genuously, "for it might be I shouldn't have been drowned with- out him. All I knew Was,that I went plump into the river whereit was very deep, and I went down-down ever so far, until I was quite sure I should never come up again. Then all at once I seemed to touch bottom, it was all soft and oozy; and I thought for a little I'd like to stay there, and stay I might for all I could help myself. Then I thought I ought to try and cry out, and I did try, but there seemed to be no noise-only a bubbling-and I felt I must die, for all my breath was gone. Just-then a great black thing came bump, bump, againstme, for I could see a little. in the water--the difference between dark and light, anyhow- and I felt myself bein' dragged up, up, just as fast as before I went down, and we came up to the top of the water with a great jump, and I saw the green trees and the blue sky, and Ike, with his red hair all on end, standin' close by in a punt, and Lion with his great head next to mine, and then I fainted." "Then he really did save you?" "He ought to have the credit of it, anyhow; only as Ike was , close to us in a hay-field, and came right off when he heard the splash, and would have saved me, I take it, anyhow, I like to thinik they both had a hand in it-" , Poor Ichabod is clear-witted enough sometimes. ' ' Bless you, yes; about most everything, 'cept believiwn' he's so dreadful rich, you know. He always thought that long before we set out to go to California;" "And you could trust him-that is, with the house; for exam- ple, should you wish to go abroad $    THE QUEST FOR PO0RTE.         49 "Oh, yes; and be safer than with some, for he'd neither pilfer nor yet drink whiskey. Jest look at him now. He's got Lion for a romp in the river; but he knows were usin' it, so you see he goes down stream. I b'lieve Lion knows enough for that, as well as Ike, and there's many a Christian would know less." During this little colloquy the two young women had, uncon- sciously, been serving as a target for the admiring glances of Luke Armnstrong and Dick Railes, the former being absorbed in i the contemplation of lIary Anne, and the latter no less interested in the animated Kitty. Dick was cleaning his rifle, or pretend- ing to do so, and Luke performing the like office for a fowling- piece. Their attention, however was suddenly distracted, as Kitty conejuded her eIlogy, by a quick exclamation fromi her companion, promptly repeated by the speaker. "Why!" cried Kitty, "what's the matter with the dog?" Lion had been actively engaged in bringing out sticks and other missiles, which Ike would cast for him into the water; but he had hastily loosed his hold of a huge branch he had been Striving to drag from the bottom, and sprung up the bank on the opposite side of the stream. The dog was large-too large and too long- limbed to be a Newfoundland, although he was popularly reputed to be of that breed; and, as his huge framestood out against the sky, he looked of even gigantic proportions. "Lion!" called lke from his side of the stream. "What's got into the critter? Here, Lion, Lion!"' The dog did not turn, but, keeping his nose toward the moun- tains, gave a long, low whine.  "He's pintin' at something!!" exclaimed Luke. "It's a bar!" said Dick Railes, quietly loading his rifle.- "Ye don't s'pose there can be Injuns 'round, arter all?" asked Seth, in an undertone, as he came up anxiously. "I don't b'lieve it; unless they might be a few scatterin' "Ttahs, and they wouldn't attack so many as we be." D "Dear me, father!" cried Mrs. Armstrong,. looking with dis- may on her scattered treasures, "if the savages come now, what will become of all the tea and sugar?" "Don't be afeard, ma'am," said Dick; "the red skins don't  kear a pine shavin' for them doin's; whiskey, and 'backy, and scalps, is what they travel fur!" "Father!" questioned Kitty, fearfully, "do you see how Lion keeps on? What do you think's the trouble with him?" "Why, nothin', Kitty, nothin'," replied Seth, cheerily; "least- ways nothin to hurt. An antelope, p'raps, in the cover yonder, 3   50     MARIAN ROOKE; . OR, or a coote* in the brush on the hillside, or a little brown bar, maybe; bat sartin nothin' to hurt." Kitty looked pale, and mother, little reassured, made for the Castle, to lurTy her handmaid, Bridget, who was peering open- mouthed from the wagon, and telling Mary Ante, who, with a quick presentiment, had made her way inside to help in a swift repacking: "Shure the baste was goin' on as if he had the divil (savin' your presence) foreninst him," "Ye'd better git your shootin" irons ready, boys," said Na- humn Pelter, coming up and joining the group who were dis- cussing; " it mought be a grizzly, ye know, and I'll allow them bars is dreadful cantankerous if they're hungry and git riled." "If it prove to be Indians-- " began the doctor. "Injuns!" laughed the frontiersman derisively; "ye won't ketch no Injuns comin' down on ye in a bee line with the wind, so that a dog with a dull nose like that kin tell ye on't a week beforehand. No; if it ain't game, nor yit no wild critter, it 'll be more white folks travellin' like ourselves." a Anyhow," said Luke Armstrong, "man or beast, we'd best be ready for "em. Forewarned is forearmed, they say, and p'raps we owe Lion another good turn." "Ay, ay," echoed the rest; "load up's the best word now, and find out what's in the wind aterwai'ds." Most of the party had taken advantage of the halt to clean or otherwise overhaul their firearms, so that they were now in good condition for service. For the next few moments little was heard but the snap of locks and rattle of ramrods thrusting home the bullets. "Better git the women-folks all into the wagron, Luke," said Seth, breaking the silence. "Two or thiee 'on ye, git the cat-  tle into the corral. Fust thing we know there'll be a stampede, maybe. Stop the clog's whinnyin', can't ye, Ike?" he contin- ued, calling, though in a suppressed voice, to the latter. Ike turned, and, without speaking, signed that the dog had made some discovery on the further side of the creek. "Yes, yes, we know; but fetch him in; he can't tell us no more, and as like's not 'll pint us out to some one who don't yit know. where we are." The dog Still stood on the rise of the bank, looming against the sky, and had repeated at intervals his warning whine. All at once he changed this note, however, and gave vent to a hoarse, threatening growl. * The wild dog or wolf of the prairies.  -   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        51  'Fetch him in, Ike, fetch him in, quick, can't ye?" cried Luke, impatiently. "Ye'd better," said Nahum Pelter, ominously, " or maybe the stranger 'll git acquainted with him in a way ye won't like." "WThat on airth is it, father?" queried Mrs. Armstrong, ner- vously, -fi'om her Castle.  Te u  vously, from her Castle. "Tell us the wust, whatever it is, and we'll stand by to help." "We hain't seen ne'er a hide nor a hair," answered her hus- band; " but you can stand by, of course, if it's any comfort to ye. The two pieces are locked in the box that fits under my berth, and the bullets and powder, and the key is hangin' on a nail to the left hand side o' the winder; only load keamful, and don't use too much powder." It had been agree, that, in the event of attack, the females should form a sort of reserve, loading weapons for the others, or using those in the wagon, according to the nature of the emer- gency. In pursuance of this plan they had undergone not a little preliminary practice, and were considered by the men at all events fit to be trusted with arms, however they might use them to advantage in a moment of peril. "That gal, MAlary Anne," said the experienced Pelter, when revolving this scheme with the others, "that gal, Mary Anne, 'll stand fire; but whether the old woman and her darter will, ye can't tell till ye see 'em tried." While the various preparations were progressing, Ichabod had been striving to induce the excited Lion to descend from his coigne of vantage, and return to his side; but the dog only re- plied to these requests by a deprecating shake of his tail, as if to say that Ike in his position was incapable of forming a just esti- mate of the exigencies of the case, and kept his ground. Now there is no doubt that Ike had greater confidence in Lion's sa- gacity than he had in that of any other individual of the party; he would unhesitatingly have deferred' to his judgment in any affair wherein conflicting evidence brought about a diversity of opinions; but the gestures and exhortations of the party grew many and wrathful, and Ike, fearful of the consequences to his faxvorite, proceeded to wade across the stream to bring him in. The current was swift and deep, but there'was a strong curve fifty yards below, Where its bed widened and a bar formed which nearly met the side opposite that whence it sprung. tiere the wagons had crossed, and here, by wading through about three feet of water, and taking a jump over a short space which intervened between the shoals, Ike managed to ford the stream.  He soon reached the spot where Lion still kept up his growl, and seizing him by the collar dragged the unwilling   52         MARIAN ROuM X v.- animal down the bankz. Any other than Ike might have found tHs operation attended with some peril; but the dog, although sorely discontented, submitted to -be led across the stream, and finally. made fast with the end of a lariat to one of the wheels .: of the Castle. "Poor old Lion," repeated Ike, while going thr'ough this un- gracious task, "Poor old Lion.! Tells 'em all about who's comin', .o so they can git ready for bars or Injuns, and jest gts roped up . for his pains! Knows more o' what's goin on than any on 'em -longPelter, or DickRailes, - or Jabe Fitchg, or any out o' the hull .:..- alc(-1A--a hoe with thleir rifes ando lot; and the .est -strut round all cok- -?  i bowles, nhile poor old Lions corded up like a break-jaill. Never :!. mind, Lion, Ike 'll bring ye a good elk-bone, and ye can enjoy yourself if ye are corralled." And suiting the action to the word, he sought out a great bone from some secret preserve and straightway presented the peace offeringto the captive; but Lion gave a single grateful wag--of tail and then. without touching the bone, concentrated his attention on the slope he had just quitted. "If it turns out to be -a grizzly," observed Nahum Pelter, sen- -- tentiously, "and he pokes his snout over the rise, three on us had better fire, and the others hold their loads."'X "Right," said Seth; "he might take the creek in a hurw, ,specially if not much hi't. Nahum, s'pose'you, and3i. Gifford, and Jabe fire; you.'re all steady shots, and can reload as quick as any, and the rest on us kin stand by for squalls." This plan being settled, two of the men were detailed to cross the stream, move down some distance, and "feel" in a manner the enemy's flank on the right, the water being so deep above i. that nothing could pass it without swimming. These scouts ,s. having received their instructions, were Just. on the point of .  starting, when a savage cry firom Lion again fixed all eyes on the bank opposite. The tall figure of a man, by his dress and hue a genuine denizen of the forest, had suddenly appeared uon its summit. Quick as light the three rifles flew up to the shoulder, ,and were levelled..  "Hold!. ci  th Armstrong  Don't shoot! We might  .... have a hull tribe about our ears afore the last o the echoes!". "Fact," assented Mr. Pelter, reluctantly dropping his piece. : "Better find how many there be in the flock, afore shooting the i single bird." "Ay, ay; don't fire. Shame to fire on a single man, may i be a friend; have a palaver fast," broke confusedly,from the :: various members of the group, as the hostile weapons were lowered, and Ike persuaded Lion into a temporary silence.  ini:k   THE QUEST FOR FOR TUNE.        53 The Indian, for such he was, had remained motionless and im- passive on the hillock; nor, while hle saw the threatening muzzles of the rifles, did he changye his attitude or his expression. He was of imposing stature, and, from the elevation of the ground where he stood, seemed to tower to a greater than human height. Indeed, what w ith his swarthy complexion, his air of comm and, and the suddenness of his appearance, there required no great effort of the imagination to conceive him the very genius of war, at whose beck might spring forth thousands of myrmidons to slay and to destroy. When he saw, however, the rifles of the white men dropped from their shoulders, the Indian, with a gesture full of grace, took a crimson blanket from a sort of knapsack worn at his back, and holding it up with both hands at the two corners,- shook it forth to the breeze, at the same time sweepingit downwards from above his head, as if to spread it on the ground.*  "The critter's friendly enough," exclaimed Dick Railes; "he wants to have a pow-wow." "He ain't no Pawnee, nor yit no Ottoe, nor yit no Utah; he ain't like e'er an Injun we've seen so fur," remarked Nahum Pelter. - "Whatever he is, he means us no harm," said Hugh Gifford. a He dearly proposes a parley'." "There may be a lot more hard by," observed Seth, dubiously. c; Surely, if he has companions, and they intended mischief, an ambuscade, or a night attack, would be more promising than a 1emonstration like this," said Hugh. "Besides, as our friend, lere says, why come down on us with the wind?"  Thus reassured, Seth Armstrong laid down his rifle, and, ad- vancing to the brink of the rivulet, with amicable signs beck- )ned the stranger to enter the camp.  The latter shook his head  courteously, and indicated that Seth's companions should likewise  dispense with their arms. A consultation followed, which resulted n  the men removing their rifles to a point at some little distance in their rear; Seth, however, taking the precaution to see that the two cruns weie properly loaded and ready in the Castle. Upon these concessions, the red man signified his willingness to confer with ;he party, and, having descended the bank and forded the stream, he advanced with dignity among them. A signal originating in the habit of spreading a robe or skin as a rest for guests to whom they wished to show distinguished courtesy; long practised as a sign of amity among most of the tribes westward of the Mississippi.         ,1     *   ...J    CHAPTER VI. THE stranger looked of an uncertain age, for, while his face showed many marks of thought and exposure, his step was elas- tic as that of a- youth. The features were prominent and aqui- line, with the copper hue and high cheek bones common to his race. There was, however, so much intelligence in the face -so much shrewdness and perception mingled with a cer- tain courtly reserve-that the first impression of the observer would certainly have been to count it as that of a civilized man. The second indeed, would have made him doubt; for he would now perceive that inscrutable tawn in the swift flashing eye which always suggests the barbaric. Unlike those of most of the - savages of the plains, his countenance seemed free from grease or -paint; his head, however, was shaven, except the invariable scalp-lock, and from the ornamental-circlet which surrounded it there sprung, behind, a towering eagle's plume. He wore a hunting shirt of buckskin not unlike those of the white men, and leggings of the highly dressed skin of the ante- lope. The sides of the latter, like the belt and head-dress, were decorated with porcupine quills and beads. From the belt were suspended bags made of more delicately prepared skins, contain- ing ammunition, and a formidable-looking hunting knife. The feet were protected by moccasins of deer-skin with thick elk soles, and the crimson blanket, before referred to, hung from the shoulders.  "My brothers do well," said the Indian, as he advanced into the expectant circle, "My brothers do well to be ready with their rifles, for there are many Ricarees and Ottoes on the war path, and the horse thieves are always watching their trail." He spoke in English, with a guttural but not unmusical accent, and with a wave of the hand, as if to spare his new frieends the making apology for their somewhat hasty demonstration. "You are not then, of either of those tribes?" said Hugh Gifford, to whomArmstrong had signed to act as spokesman. "Of no tribe which my brothers have seen. We are too few to spread far over the land like the Sioux and Blackfeet, and my brother's track lay too far to the south. There are nearly as many leagues between Washashaco and the wigwams of his people as stretch from here to the great Lake of Bitter Waters,"   THUE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       55 Arc you alone?" There must have been a shade of anxiety in Gifford's man- ner which caused the slightest possible trace of amusement in that of the Indian, as he replied, "Not alone; but the braves of Washashaco are fewer than those of my brother." "Will you bring your braves to our camp that they may also smoke a pipe with us?" "They are a day's journey distant. They are watching the beavers, who are very cunning. Washashaco watchleshere. By-and-by we shall return to our homes laden with much spoil." "But this is the country of the Utahs; have you no fear of their enmity?" A haughty smile passed over the chief's swarthy countenance. "The Utahs are women. Shall we, who make dogs of the Pawnees and running hares of the Ottoes, swerve from our path for the Utahs? Besides, these Indians fight only with tomahawks and poisoned arrows; our great'Father has taken our lands, it is true, but he has given us arms which are very long. The French and Yengeese traders from the big Lakes take rich skins firom the red men, and give them short guns fit only for firewood; the people of my brother take most of our hunting grounds, but they give us long rifles, the better to hunt on those that are left." IIis hearers looked instinctively for the Indian's arms. "Wasashaaco's hands are empty. He knew his white bro- thers would not love him better for seeing his rifle. He there- fore left it with his horse in the thicket." "Let him bring his horse and his arms into our camp. Let him partake of our meat and smoke of our pipe, that he may rest and refiresh himself before he goes further on his way." ]The Indian bowed with simple courtesy. "Waashashaco will do so,' le said, and turning on his heel hle recrossed the stream to carry the invitation of Gifford into effect.     Hasty and many .were the suggestions and observations which' followed his departure.  "Can we trust him., dvye think?" asked Seth, anxiously. '"I see his camp fire afore," said Dick Railes, " but thought it mought be Luke's or some of Ike's doin's." There may be others," surmised the Doctor, " on the other sides of us. To conceal their number and make sure of ours, this one may have come singly to lull us into security while the rest hemn us securely in."9 "Ye'd better git out the theodolite, Doctor," suggested Dick with 'irony, " and find out how-many there be."   56         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, "The man strikes me as honest' said Gifford, replying to Seth, " but be that as it may, to- give him a meal and an ounce of tobacco can do no harm. If he means mischief he can work it as well without as with them." "And then ag'in there's a good many of us," mused Seth. "Injuns don't admire so manly long range rifles; and we're twelve able-bodied men, to say nuthin' of Ike and Lion." "'Twont do to set too much store on numbers" warned Dick Railes, who had considerable doubts as to the fighting capacity of the Eastern men, or the "Yanks," as he styled them, and, if the truthmust-be told, more contempt for that of Hugh Gifford than-for those of any of the others ; for was he not a bookworm, a scholard, a lawyer,-all inconsistent with any probable success in arms?  "Numbers is sometimes more hurt than good. They stirs up panic, numbers does; they lose their grip when fightin' time comes; ye can't be sure of e'er a man that hain't smelt powder." "Come, cone, Dick, don't skear us to death aforehand. I guess the funkiest of us 'ud rather fight than lose a scalp with- out it, and that's about what it comes to if we're attacked." "There's more danger of their starvin' ye to death," remarked Jabe Fitch, "at least so I've heerd. If ye meet'em when they've been a long time without game, as they'll often be on the plains, they'll jest belt your grub anyway, if they don't your scalps; and we've a long way to travel yit." '"That's like Jabe, that is," laughed Dick. "He kears more for his belly than he does for his scalp, any day!' "And why shouldn't I?" put Jabe, stoutly. "Ye can live without the one, and it's saitin ye can't without the other.") ' All things considered," said the doctor, '; it may be as well to look sharp for both. But I agree with Gifford in thinldking there's no harm in this man. The signs are much at fault if he's a bad specimen of his race." ' Signs don't go fur with Injuns," said the censorious Dick. "They're wuss than the old sarpint himself in not lettin' on what -they mean to do." 'Any how," pursued Seth, "we'll be ready whatever hap- pens. We'll hevy a double watch all the time, and keep an extra eye on the cattle, and be ready to move at any minute. If the wust comes to the wust, we ain't the only ones who've ever crossed the plains, nor the only ones who've had to fight their way through.," ]Fight!" chimed in Nahum Pelter, with his deep bass voice; "there won't be no fight!"   e -' o '    * ,         *    / .          THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        57 "Why won't there?" "There won't be no fight-not with that man or his war- riors-leastways, not if he says there won't." "And why not, I asked ye?" pressed Seth. "Because he won't lie-he's a Delaware!" "A Delaware!" exclaimed Hugh Gifford, "  and in these western wilds!" "Ay; Uncle Sam gave 'em hunting grounds out in West Kansas. They'd changed and changed as the years rolled on, and the country got thicker settled, and the Injuns couldn't live near the whites, so at last they've got 'em clear into Kansas, what there is left of 'em." "And you think this is one of the tribe?"  "I'm sure on't; I knowed at first he weren't neither Paw- nee, nor Creek, nor Sioux, nor Ottoe; but I didn't see the signs that told me what he was. I've known Delawares since I was knee high, and I never heerd o' their breaking the'ir words." "But what, think you, is the cause of his being so far from his hunting-grounds V"- "That is puzzlin'; it can't be forhuntin', it's no use to come so fur; it can't be for tradin', there's nothin' to trade, and no- body to trade with. I take it there's only one thing else, and that is that he's on the war path."' "But you don't think he means harm to ourselves ; and who else is there to fight?' ;  " True enough, who?" repeated Seth. "Ie's the first red- skin we've seen for a fortnit." "The country mought swairm with -'em," answered the Ili- noisian, " and we not see one. There'd be two hostile parties, maybe, each trying to circumvent the other travellin' only at night, lurkin' in the valleys and gulches by day, or dodgin' and crawlin' on their bellies among the brush,. weeks and weeks afore a war cry's heard or a scalp took. We not seein' 'em's no sure thing they ain't thar." "It seems prudent, Mr. Armstrong," said Gifford, "to ac- cept this Indian's presence as the evidence of others besides Ad! his own party being near. It may be as well to take it for granted, and to act as if we were sure of it." "'Them's my idees," corroborated Mr. Pelter. "But here comes the chief back again. P'raps he'll let on what he's up to " himself-most likely, if no one asks him 'bout it." The warrior now returned, this time bestriding a powerful mare, and carrying a formidable rifle. Luke Armstrong took I         3*   58         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, charge of the former, notWithstanding her owners courteous deprecation of the service, and Lion 'was soon reconciled to the unfamiliar presence on seeing its amicable relations with his friends. Washashaco readily partook of the refreshment of- fered him, and the whole party, with a mingling of curiosity, policy, and a large proportion of genuine kindness, vied with each other in offering - him attentions. Mrs. Armstrong was, perhaps, an exception, for nothing could induce her to regard an Indian otherwise than with aversion and distrust. They ain't Christians,' she declared; I and it's agin Scripture to put your faith in the heathen. Lion kne'w the Evil One was about somewheres. Jest as like 's not he'll -cut all our throats in the night, and lug off our scalps afore breakfast." "Dear Mrs. Armstrong," argued Mary Anne, "I've always heard that the Delawares were a noble race, and most wander- ing tribes, they say, will always respect your confidence, if they have broken bread and eaten salt with you.' "They tell that about the Arabs, I know," conceded the good lady ;but they're half Christians; they ain't like these 'ere painted devils, who go round howlin' and scalpin' folks." "You've no call to be the least afeerd, Miss Kitty," said Dick Railes, who always availed of any excuse to get near that blooming damsel; ' he's quite safe, and we're goin' to keep double watch to-night." "Law, Richard, I'm not afraid," replied Kiitty, saucily; "and if twelve men are not enough for one Indian, I'm sure four women would be." "And what do you think of this chieftain?" 1Mary Anne asked of Hugh Giffoxd.       I              -  - "Think? Why, that it would be more dangerous to appear to doubt than to trust him." Washashaco said nothing of his objects, or those of his braves, durinng the day; and although the principal and most responsi- ble members of the party were naturally anxious on the subject, r they yet prudently forbore to question himn. The Indian's eye roved unceasingly over their camp, their equipage, their cattle, and their arms; but otherwise he expressed neither curiosity nor surprise. Once, indeed when Seth opened the rearward entrance to Castle Armstrong, and showed him its singular 'in-  terior, he uttered a characteristic "Ugh;" but this might have been elicited by satisfaction with the very obvious disgust of Mrs. Armstroncg at the procedure, rather than by admiration of i? what he saw besides. During the day he preserved his silence, - but at night, when all were assembled around the camp'fire,  - X                       k ' ' .I *      "', XI;r ,  ,. J   THE QUEST FOR FORTIJNE.        59 and the females had retired' he expressed a desire to address his friends on a topic of common interest. The night was cooler than usual, and the wind hurtled mournfully through the cottonwoods and willows which stood on the banks of the stream. The - camp fire was, therefore, made large and ruddy, and it cast a far-reaching glow over the picturesque scene which surrounded it. Pipes and whiskey had been produced; but al- though the Indian used the tobacco freely, he declined to touch the stimulant which has been the curse of so many of his race. The men mostly lay stretched on their robes and blankets in va- rious attitudes of careless ease, for four of their number were circling the camp in vigilant patrol, and they were free to smoke in quiet. Seth Armstrong sat on one side, with Doctor Landale and Hugh Gifford supporting him on either hand; the Indian seeming to regard the two, in -their capacities of medi- cine-man and spokesman, as somewhat elevated above the rest of the party. Washashaco, in dignified isolation, sat apart a short distance upon his crimson blanket. Not far off were Icha- bod and Lion, both grave and attentive watchers c f the proceed- ings. What with the long beards and gleaming eyes, the pie- turesque costumes, the bits of bright color thrown out here and there by the dancing flames, and the intense solitude of the scene far around it, the group would have appeared to a specta- tor, to use the hackneyism, well worthy a painter's pencil. There had been a long pause, purposely unbroken by his hosts, when the chief rose to his feet and spoke:  "Ay brothers have heard of the tribe of the Delawares. They were once very many and very strong. They are now very few', but still strong, and will be so until the last of the Lenni Lenape shall join his fathers in the happy hunting- grounds. -Their braves were once counted by tens of thou- sands, and there are now only a few poor hundreds; but Lthe hundreds'who remain are mighty warriors, and their deeds are not less brave than'the deeds of those who have gone before. "My brothers have heard how their fathers deprived the Del-,' awares of their lands ; Sit is an old story, and it cannot be pleas- ant to my brothers' ears. It cannot be pleasant to be told that their fathers did wrong, therefore I will not repeat it. I will only say that the Delawares came from  the banks of the Ohio as their fathers came from those of the Susquehanna; and that they came from the banks of the Mississippi as they came from the banks of the Ohio.   The remnant -of my -tribe are now far from the haighty river, where they were told they should live fr ever. They are now in the west-   60         MARIAN ROOKE; OR    - ern plains of Kansas. If the Delawares were as numerous as they were when they first left the valley of the Susquehanna, they would be pushed on, and pushed on, until they were pushed at sunset into the great lake of bitter waters. But they are few, and their last warlriors will be dead and forgotten before they-can be driven to the great mountains. "Old men say that one wrong brings on another; and it is so with red men as well as white ones. The white men thrust the Delawares firom their hunting-grounds, and the Delawares have been forced to thrust the Pawnees and Sioux from theirs. The Pawnees did not like to see the Delawares come into the land that had always been theirs. This was to be expected. They fight all the time; but the Delawares are better warrior, and kill far more braves than they lose. Still, they lose many, and grow fewer and fewer every year. This is a pity; but they cannot now, even if they would, return to the lands they have left behind. They will, therefore, remain, and die fighting. "Three moons ago, a strong band of Pawnees made an attack upon one of our villages. It was at night, and most of the young men were absent hunting. The Pawnees burned the village, and killed some old women. Tlhey also drove off somep cattle. They were pursued, and divided into several parties. Washashaco, and the braves under his command, chased the party which was led by their principal chief. After a little, the Pawnees discovered your train, and resolved to attack it. They did not do so because you were then near the Forts, and they were afiaid. They followed, determined to surprise you after you should cross the mountains, and so be far distant from the soldiers of your great father. I and my braves have followed them cautiously, knowing every step they have taken. They think the Delawares have returned to their camp. Four days ago they were short of food, and they stop- ped to hunt. I hastened on, and gained some distance, leaving my braves to watchl their course. The Pawnees will soon attack the camp of my brothers; but Washashaco and his young men will help them to fight." The address of the chief had been thus far -received in un- broken silence; but when it arrived at this startling pero- ration, a hum of anxiety and exclamation ran round the circle. Seth raised his hand, imposing continued silence; and Gifford rose. "' We have listened," he said, "with interest and attention, and we hope we shall be good friends both withWashashaco and his yasti'i0,  ut ,why is it-Vice th e Delawares have been inj'ured WW) 13  't   ,       - -THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE,         61 by the white men-why is it that they should offer to assist white men against their enemies ."t "Because," answered' the chief, gravely, (because the Del- awares aye at peace with the white men, and at war with their red enemies; because the Delawares and my brothers together  can fight the Pawnees, but would not be strong enough to fight them singly, for they are many; and because, though there are some Delawares who do not like white men. there are no Dela- wares but who hate Pawnees. Is my brother answered?" Gifford bowed assent, and continued, "What, then, is the number of the Pawnees?"' "When we first struck their trail," said Washashaco, "they counted over three score; but some have left them by the way." "Three score!" exclaimed Nahum Pelter, with a dismayed whistle; "that's five to one, I reckon." "My big brother forgets the braves of Washashaco." "And how many are they '" "There' are nine besides Washashaco." "Chief!" said Seth, anxiously, "how do ye know where the Pawnees air now? How do ye know but they might come upon us at any moment; p'raps this very night?" "Because, had they been near enough to strike, theDelawares would have been here to warn their chief long before the sun went to sleep."  "But were your people to approach this neighborhood," said Gifford, "how are!they to discover you?  Our sentinels are wary, and should the Delawares approach the camp, may mis- take them for enemies." "My braves are not geese," replied the warrior, "arind they know that my white brothers are here. When they arrive they will be half a day's journey in advance of the Pawnees, for they are well mounted, and know :where to come.  They will seek Washashaco in a spot where he has lately been. They will find that he is in safety and close at hand. Had any accident befallen him, thev would know  that, too. Should they come by night or by day, Washashaco will know it; and they will not enter your camp until they are invited by their white brothers." The party were fain to rest content with these assurances, although it became evident to the boldest that their situation was a critical one. If the chief's statements and opinions could be implicitly relied upon, the chance for protecting their lives and property was by no means too good; while, if he were playing them false, it must be with a design whose fruition was likely to be yet more fatal to their security. The latter theory, however,    62          MARIAN ROOKE; OR,  none were ready to maintain; the opinion, that it would be well to keep a close watch upon Washashaco, constituting its strongest expression. As for the chief himself, having said what he camne to say, he had folded himself in his blanket, and quietly gone to sleep by the camp fire. Most of the others were wakeful, naturally enough, and remained a long time in anxious and thoughtful counsel. Ike and Lion lay -down trustingly together next -to the red man, and- dropped into their customary slum- bers; but it was long before their comrades desisted from their  whispered consultations, and the small hours were creeping on ere the little camp was once more buried in repose. CHAPTER VII. THE sweet air of the morning was just stealing over the earth when Mary Anne left her couch and the rosy fingers of Aurora had hot quite swept away the deep and tender blue which still lingered in the west. The girl stole down to the tiny beach of yellow sand which margined the rippling stream to get water for her morning ablutions. She glanced as she went toward the camp fire; it was burning yet, or rather smouldering in its turn-, bling debris of white ashes, and the robe-wrapped figures hud- dled aboutit were motionless in slumber. By the .ford lower down. the stream, she saw a figure leaning statue-like against a tree. His rifle was clasped in the arms folded across his chest, while the breech rested on the ground. The head of the senti- nel drooped forward heavily, and he, too, seemed fast asleep. It was very, very still, but, as alyays happens, it seemed more silent because there were' certain sounds to remind one of the absence of others. Such were the deep breathing of the slecep- ers, the gentle swirling of the stream, and the confused trilling of some early birds.  The girl completed her toilet- undisturbed. She arranged some details of her dress, and bound into a simple knot the great masses of black hair which had previously fallen below her waist. Close by was a smooth p:ol, caused by an accidental eddy, and darkened by a little shrubbery beside it. Into this, with a natural impulse, she looked, as she adjusted her tresses, as if to mark the final effect, "But that Miss Armstrong is so free firom vanity,'" said a low   4         THE QUEST FOR FORTUE.         63 voice behind her, " one might think her in .danger of the fate of Narcissus." She was called Miss Armstrong by the party, just as the young lady to whom that designation belonged was universally known as Kitty,; and Hugh Gifford, finding she did not object, so styled her. She looked tp with a quick blush. "Mr. Gifford is not often lavish of even implied -compliments; but, since he has grown classical and speaks of fate, he shouldn't forget that of Action." 6 Indeed, Honly came as the coffure approached its conclu- sion-an oftence not punishable, I hope, even in the eyes of the most severe of Dianas. What a lovely morning! and how calm and peaceful everything appears. Thank Heaven, we are all safe thus far!" "You think we are in danger, then?" "You know nothing of what passed last night?" "I do. Kitty and I were uneasy after the arrival of the In- dian. W- e yielded to the natural propensity of our sex, and list- ened from the wagon. Poor child! She was in mortal ter- ror."         c "And you?" "I? I accustomed myself to- the idea, that danger was in- -evitable in crossing the plains. I ran some risks to enable my- self to do so. I have lately endured a great, a desolating af- fliction. Perhaps, therefore, I am not so appalled at the chance of peril." "I really apprehend that chance is serious. The men will fight, well, if need be, without doubt. But I fear we mav be assailed by overwhelming numbers." ' "Why not fly, push on as fast as possible, and so escape?" "Impossible. These heavy wagons could never keep ahead of the horses of our pursuers; and to abandon them is to risk starvation. Besides, the chief would be dissatisfied by such an attempt, even if he did not essay forcibly to oppose it." "Why should he do so?T "IIe thinks, of nothing but glory. Why should he be here? Why acquaint us with the designs of our enemies? Simply because he hopes to win a triumph over them, and carry back their scalps to the lodges of his people. He would not regard with favor any policy on our part which would render, an en- counter less probable." "But is he sanguine of success T" "He counts upon it as certain." "And what if it should be otherwise?"    "        MARIAN ROOKE; OR? "You mean should we be overcome?" "Yes."  ' The men would probably all be killed; the women carried into captivity.55  That I for one would not be. Stil you do not think our case really desperate?' "By no means.  We have many advantages of position. This stream covers us pretty effectually on nearly three sides. We can barricade the fourth so as to obtain all the advantage of a fortified position. As to provisions and water, we are abundantly supplied; so that, if the enemy attempt a siege, we need not dread it. Meantime, there is always a hope that some other and more numerous party of our own rage may chance this way and reinforce us." He spoke lightly, but there was a gravity in his eye, and the habitual compression of the lips-was slightly increased. Mary Anne went on as though answering what she saw in his thoughts rather thant what fell from his mouth. "I don't know that I should fear to die," she said, musingly, "or much regret it. True, I had hoped to be of some small use in the world. What they taught me might be useless for myself, considering what my future station is likely to be. But all these busy ones thronging to the land of gold-they must have children, and I could teach them, and so be not altogether a useless clod-a cumberer of the earth!" She had spoken of this scheme before, and Hugh, seeing it was a somewhat cherished one, had applauded it as an honora- ble and useful career for her to adopt. But he had thought before, and he thought now, as he gazed on the girl's striking face, and remembered her many attractions, that, in a land where women are few, such an one would find plenty to dis- suade her from the arduous toils of a school teacher. What is life," continued Mary Anne, with more bitterness than was usual with her, " what is life, when one has nothing to make life dear? The home, the cherished scenes, the faith- ful friends, and more, far more than all, the adored father- gone, all gone, and for ever. Why should I wish to live, without father, without home, without friends?" "Do not say without friends," interrupted Gifford, gently. "I am sure this worthy family are your good friends, and Kitty dearly loves you. Do not say without friends; for H-if you will let me call mtyself so, I will always be a friend to you.' "You Will.' "I will."   SI r ^ s^  ?4 A  v-.    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        65 "You promise it, then?" "Faithfully." . "I shall remember, and perhaps call upon you some time to remember. "Now, and always. And for now, since it is one of a friend's offices to tell truths let me offer you one. A woman with youth and beauty-I do not flatter, recollect, for I am only a friend-with youth and beauty such as yours should despair of nothing. The loss of friends, indeed, she may deplore, for it is irreparable. But there is nothing else, no other loss but it can be supplied, and more. Youth, health, loveliness-they can compass anything!" "Anything T" "Why not? They can procure fortune." "Dross!" "-Ah! you have never wanted it. Fame  "That is more valuable." "Love " "Love!" she exclaimed, as the color rose in her pure olive cheek-'"Love! No! They cannot procure love!" "Believe me, they can. More surely than all else beside." "Are you sure of it?' she asked, archly, and turnming her lustrous black eyes full on his face, "With your particular ex- perience, do you feel so sure,?" Gifford colored in turn. "You know exceptions are admit- ted to prove general rules. But my argument is that you have everything to hope-abright, a cherished a courted future! Contrast your case with mine. I see nothing before me but a long, miserable struggle with, poverty, before which I may suec cumb at last." "You have also youth; you have talents, ambition." "The first and last, perhaps; but, unlike you, I have no happy past to recur to, to, show me that life may sometimes be bright and beautiful. The vista behind is grim, cheerless, and deso- late, and I have no right to assume that it will be different with me in the future. Aly life has been all bitterness. I have par- taken unwillingly of the bitter cup of the Puritans, who settled min the rocky land that bole me. The draught has been flavored with all of asceticism, intolerance, hardship, they ever knew or I most loathle, without the enthusiasm which enabled them to drain it to the cdregs, or the perversity which enabled them to call it nectar. I have no friends whom I can esteem ;' there are none who love me." a None who love you! You forget Virginia!"   "         MXRIAN ROOKE; OR, She was quite right; more than once in this conversation had Hugh forgotten Virginia; but the reproach, while hie felt it to be just, nettled him at the mraoment, and he said, hastily : "Were I to tell her as much as I have now told you, she would think me as crazy as poor Ike there; and so I should be to tell it with the hope of sympathy." "Then why--"The girl reddened, stammered, and paused. It was doubtful whether she felt moie of relief or annoyance when the cheery call of Kitty Armstrong came to her aid by summoning her to the inside of the castle; However, she flew to respond to it, and left Gifford standing absorbed in thought upon the strand.         . Looking up, he saw in the act of crossing firom the opposite bank the tall figure of the chieftain, who had evidently fore- stalled his hosts, early as their rising had been. '"Vashashaco is up before the sun,' said Gifford, as hle sa- luted him. "Hias he seen anything of interest this morning?" There was the slightest smile of polite irony on the Indian's face, as he replied: "I saw the' White Fawn talking with my brother, and I saw her run away into the moving wigwam." "Has the chief any tidings of his braves? - "N one*. ' i he Pawnees are bad hunters as well as bad warriors. and they have found no, deer. Or they have fallen in with an- other arty of their tribe, and will come in greater numbers." "Should they do so, our chance to resist them will be but small." "They are dogs. Great in feasting; great when their young men drag at their heels the skin of the polecat; great in be- coming hogs when they get at the white man's fire-water; but small on the war-path, and like children when they encounter the DelaVares.-" "The Delawares are valiant, and their white friends will fight hard; but can they hope to do wonders? Can they make one rifle equal to ten?" "Is my brother aftraid?9" A hot flush rose to Gifford's brow, but he restrained Iris an- ger, and answered gently, "He has not yet been in battle, and perhaps makes the danger greater than it is. Most of his peo- ple think they can conquer against five times their number of Indians." "The white men have better guns, and the red men have more cunning. Baut this place can be made strong, like the foits of the soldiers at Leavenwortlh. Very few can hold it against very many."   "4.      THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       67 The sleepers by this time were awake and stirring, and Icha- bod, having approached the spot where the chief and Gifford stood, thought this a favorable moment to join in their deliber- ations. "Ike kin hold it alone," he remarkied, gravely; "Ike and, Lion. We kin hold it agin all the red-skins 'twixt here and the Mississippi. There ain't ne'er an Injun 'ud dare fire a gun if they knew Ike was anywheres "round.   He can do all the fightin' and all the gold-findin', he kin; only he won't tell ye 'bout the gold, cause it's bad for ye. Small good in gittin' things for nuthil'. Lion works for his dinner, and gits a good appetite." Ie was a strange figure enough, with his shock of red hair; his cap of bearskin, with its extravagantly long plumes; his hunting-shirt, with its grotesque ornaments of beads and feath- ers, and bits of far; his assured speech, and his ungainly ac- tion. - But the Indian regarded him with a countenance as im- movable as stone. P'raps ye'd like some gold, chief? P'raps you'd like to cook your elk'in a gold pot, and wear a crown friom now to never. Ike knows where it is-more 'n they ever found in lMexico, or Golcondy, or Peroo! More"n they ever piled inter the mint at Philadelfy! Acres of it-nmountains of it-so ye kin have yer wigwams, and ycr canoes, and yer tomahawks, and yer lhuntin' knives, all of bright, pure, beautiful, yaller gold." "Iy brother is laughing," said Washashaco, sententiously. "D'ye know what we're goin' to do? We're goin' to sail in bime by, and jest take the hull continent, and dri;ve out the Britishers, ancld the Rooshians, and the red-skins, and the greas- ers, and annex Canady, and gobble up Cuby, and clean out the hull lot of 'em That's what we're goin' to do. And every man shall have two farms, and live on millk, and honey, and elk-meat, and hoe-cake, and never do any work 'cept when he goes to Congress! And Ike's to be the President one week, turn about, and Lion another! Hooray! for Ike the Fust, and the ' 3urikun eagle!' Hooray!" And he began his strange performance of capering and leap- ing about, and covering himself with his buffalo robe, at which Lion, as usual, assumed that he was a bear, and attacked him furiously accordingly. The Indian looked at him steadlfastly for a space, and then a light crept over his bronzed and haughty features. "My brother is possessed of the Great Spirit," he said, revy   UOJ        21uaJu Am vvmau X watt erently, " and no red man would do him harm; but they might not always respect his friends." The camp was now all bustle and activity. The females werpre eparing the morning meal, and the men were hard at work moving the wagons into a position which would cause them, so far as they could extend, to describe a chord of the arc formed by the little stream. On the right, with its back to the river, was the corral where the cattle were placed ; a situa- tion more secure than that on the left, where lay the ford. It was believed that no enemy would risk an attack on the water- side, thus giving the greatest possible advantages to the de- fence, and it therefore seemed prudent to strengthen the open or land approach as much as possible. The soil was extremely hard and stony, and the attempt to throw up a breastwork of earth would, it was judged, be impracticable, or, if practicable, involve too much exhausting labor; and it was expedient to keep their small number as fresh and unexhausted as safety would permit. On a small knoll which separated the corral firom the space forming the immediate camp, stood a copse of timber, almost the only wood of any moment in sight. There was, it is true, a thin fringe of cottonwoods scattered along the banks of the rivulet ; but they were few and sparse, and afforded little cover. The copse in question, however,. chiefly consisting of hard, gnarly mahogany of the scrub description found in this region, was so close and thick as to afford considerable protection. Here, after careful consultation, Castle Armstrong was now planted, to serve as a refuge for the women, and, indeed, as a kind of citadel to the fortress. Seth Armstrong, having slept on the intelligence received the night before, was possessed, in the morning, with the idea that the intervention of poor Ichabod might be made as useful in the event of an attack from the Pawnees as it had been on a pre- vious occasion; but Washashaco, now apprised of the latter incident, and having seen the hero of it, shook his head, on its being suggested that such a result might again be hoped for. The Pawnees, he represented, would in all probability attempt a surprise; in such a case, how should they know or care that any one possessed of the Great Spirit had made the party con- traband of war? In such a tone, if not in such precise terms, he opposed any reliance on Ike's mediation. The truth was, the warrior desired no other result than that the issue should be squarely fought out to what he regarded as its legitimate conclusion, and used every argument his eloquence could sugm   THE QUEST FOR FORrUNE.        69 gest against flight, diplomacy, strategy, or any other ignoble substitute for battle. Preparations for hostilities were, therefore, pushed with the utmost speed; preparations intelligible enough to all the assem- blily save poor Mrs. Armstrong, who looked on them with a dubiousness which, as they progressed, gave place to terror. Her appeals to the two young women failing to elicit satisfac- tory replies, she had recourse to Luke. - "What on airth is the matter, Luke? I knew that drefful heathen was come for no good; but do they really expect we shall git attackted? Oh, Lord! oh, Lord! nothin' never did come but harm from havin' to do with the Evil One! What will they do with us if they take us all prisoners? And these 'ere poor gals, too! Arter all, it's lucky I didn't bring my chiny!" Luke reassured his mother as well as he could; there was by no means .a certainty of their being attacked-only a chance; but it was well to be ready for anything. The chief was very friendly, and had come to warn and not to harm them; more- over, he had others of his tribe near at hand, who, in case of need, would fly to their assistance. These assurances were re- ceived with obstinate incredulity; so Mary Anne, who had been followed everywhere during the explanation by Luke's admiring eyes, relieved herself and him by coming to his support. Meanwhile, sturdy Doctor Landale was getting ready lint and bandages with the same equanimity that marked his daily obser- vations. "You'd better learn how to apply a tourniquet," he remarked to Hugh Gifford, " in case I happen to get hit. These Western men have remedies of their own for most simple hurts, but they've nothing to substitute for that." And Hugh did learn it as well as was possible in the hour which elapsed before break- fast. When that hour arrived, the dispositions for defending the camp were tolerably complete. Washashaco, truly, had some suggestions to make, but it would answer, he said, if they were carried into effect after the meal. The sentries were now called in, to be replaced as quickly as possible by others. "All here," said Seth Armstrong, "all here, and, thank God, all safe!" as the different members of the little company came flocking in toward the kettles. The worthy man paused a little, meaning to say a word or two in more formal recognition of the mercies they enjoyed, and a strange murmur arose among the. assemblage. "All here," somebody' repeated.  "Not all, I reckon, unless twelve's the same as thirteen!"And, "Who is it, who is it?" ran from one to the other as each looked at and counted his neighbors. It wars one of the young   70     X"MAIAN ROOK; OR,  . Irishmen, one of the laborers whom Seth had engaged at St. Louis.  "Why," cried Luke, "Dennis was placed sentry at two o'clock at the ford!" "So he was," exclaimed Gifford, "and he was there, safe enough, at daybreak, for I saw him. I do believe," he continued, as his thoughts flew back over the time, "I do believe the fellow was asleep, though!" "Asleep!" repeated Seth; "then like enough he's asleep still. That won't do!" "Do," cried Dick Railes, "I should think not; if men's goin' to sleep on watch, With the country swarmin' with red-skins, we'll git shot off like so many woodchucks!" "Come," said Gifford, rising, " let's hear what he's got to say; perhaps the poor fellow's unwell." "Ay, ay," echoed Seth, kindly, "we'll go and see what he says for himself." The men started for the ford; only a short twenty rods to go. The sentinel was still there; still leaning against the tree, with his arms folded across his breast, and the clasped rifle resting on the ground. , "Dennis!" cried Luke, as they approached. There was no reply, and the party quickened their steps until they stood by the man's side. He was lashed to the tree by a cord passing around the waist; a knife was buried to .the hilt in his side, and the man was dead-stone dead. All gazed for a moment in silent horror; then a shout went -tip: "Washashaco! The Chief! TheIndian! Whereishe ." But the Delaware had vanished, and was nowhere to be found. CHAPTIES VHil. THE day was passed by the wayfarers in gloom and anxiety. It was evident that they were surrounded by unseen enemies, and where the stroke would fall next none could tell. The sudden dis- appearance of the Delaware naturally led to the belief that he was knowing to the assassination of the unfortunate sentry, if, indeed, he was not himself the actual murderer. But, if so, why should he have come into their midst to warn them of coming   ':?:          THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         71 danger? And if such a course had been adopted with the sinister design alone of learning their numbers and means of defence, why, after obtaining that knowledge, should he ,have returned, thus incurring the risk of being set face to face with the corpse of Dennis, and being charged with his murder? The latter objec- tion was most conclusive to Hugh. Gifford, as opposed to the -hypothesis of the Indian's guilt; for he remembered his con- versation with him in the morning, which took place within easy b hail of the spot where Dennis stood, and when there was each moment the greatest probability of the deed being detected. Cer- tainly it seemed strange that Washashaco should have made Lris way across the ford in the mornincg unchallenged by Dennis, who stood close by it; but might not the deed have been wrought as probably before the chief set out as afterwards, and might not the apathy of the sentry be thus accounted for? On the other hand, if Washashaco were innocent, why should he throw a cloud over his conduct, by absconding without a word of explanation at the critical moment of discovery? These were doubts and fears not easy to be resolved, and the more they were canvassed the more threatening the prospect appeared for the future. Upon one point all were agreed, which was that they must henceforth practise redoubled vigilance, and leave no precaution unemployed which might avert the further reduction of their scanty numbers. To this end they determined that it would be imprudent to send out scouts, and that, should they remain unmolested throughout the day, the most intelligent and wary of the party should serve that night as sentinels. For it was remarkable that no one could be found who had heard the slightest noise during the night before. Not a growl from Lion, usually so watchful, not the rustle of a leaf had served as a warning sign or had betrayed the stealthy foot of the assassin. They must, therefore, watch to-night with increased wariness if they would not share the fate of their luckless companion. "As to gittin' shot in a fair fight," growled Nahum Pelter in his deep bass voice, " every man expects it,'I reckon, and jest travels on his chances. But this here skewerin'.of ye onawares in the dark rakes me down altogether- It ain't my style, that ain't. I don't s'pose the poor Paddy was good for much," he continued, chewing ponderously, and ejecting regretfulspirts of tobacco-juice. "I don't s'pose the poor cuss had much grit in him for a bush fight; but I'm sorry for him, I am; and a rifle less is a rifle less when we' come to the scratch." Dr. Landale,. who was gliding about sounding the spirit and temper of the men just as he would feel their pulses, questioned  72         MARIAN OOKE; O, Pelter as to how he thought, in the event of a fight, the men would behave. "Think they'll fight? Wall, I reckon all the Westerners will. They're born fighters, they are. I don't feel so stiff about the Yanks; there's two kinds o' Yanks, wooden nutmeg Yanks, and book-learnin' ones; I don't think there's much fight in neither of 'em. Still they may do well enough behind the wagons; and efthey don't run at the fust fire they'll be apt to be darned ob- stinate arterwards. But the Western boys there, Luke and Dick in pettikilar, they'll fight like h , they will. And I calkilate I'm good for about ten Injins, I am: that's so." With which comfortable assurance the giant launched forth a fresh cataract of saliva, and stalked away to prepare his arma- ment. Hugh Giford was more generous in his estimate of Nahum's prowess. "These Western countrymen of yours brag so consumedly," observed the doctor, "that by all accepted rules of probability and precedent they should prove feeble if not cowardly in action." "I firmly believe they whl do all that men can do," answered Hugh, "if not all that they promise. This inflated talk is a mere matter of habit, and no true test of the nature of the man. Brag- garts are often brave men on this side the water as, I fancy, cox- combs often are on the other. But I believe there are no people about whom old-fashioned saws and accepted axioms are more firequently falsified than the Americans."  "Humph,"  rumbled the doctor; "that means, I suppose, that they are of stuff so different from ordinary mortals that they are not to be judged by the laws which history and experience have established-a modern chosen people made to order, who are to have new codes for social organization, new philosophies for intellectual development, because the humdrum affairs which have taken some thousands of years to grow are notgood enough for the'ir purpose, eh?" "No," said Hugh, smiling, "only that the conditions which surround them-intellectual and physical-are so very differeint firom those of any people of whom we have any authentic record, that we must not expect their progress or achievements to pre- cisely square with those of any people whose histories we pos- sess." "We're like to hev a hard time on't, gentlemen," said Seth, coming up. "I did hope to git across all safe and sound when we'd come so far as the mountains; but we've had an uncommon easy journey, and I suppose it weren't in the nature of things that the path should be allers smooth. This poor lad who's gone   "A -i             THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         73 may be's only a day before all the rest on us; but we must try and do our dooty like men. I shouldn't kear so much," he added in a lower tone, " if it weren't for the women folks. It hurts me pooty bad to see mother goin' on as she is now-and themt two poor gals ain't fit either to die or to fall into the hands of them devils of Injuns. Howsumever, please God, they shan't if. we can help it." "Amen," said Hugh and the' doctor, while Seth passed on, busy as he was in. planning and arranging to make the strong- hold as secure as possible. The others stood for a moment in silence, when the doctor spoke: "The good man doesn't see that the presence of the women makes his camp twice as' strong as it would otherwise be. What think you?" "I? I am. sure of it." "'I suppose," continued the doctor, '" that there's no great chance of availing ourselves of poor Ichabod's misfortune?" "I fear not; for whether ho plays us true or false, the chief's argument on that subject seems unanswerable. The Pawnees will, without doubt, attempt a surprise, and, in that case, it mat- ters little whether he be with us or not, except that he knows how to pull a trigger. But come, we should do our share toward the fortifications."' The two men then t followed Seth to the line of the wagons, which were now connected, after a fashion, by a hasty abattis made- of such rough brush and bits of timber as the men had been able to collect, and strengthened by ox chains interlaced through them. Dick Railes and Nahum Pelter, while approv- ing this arrangement, did not fail to warn the others that the Indians, should they attempt an assault, would certainly try to set this barricade on fire as a preliminary, but all hoped that, with the aid of their revolvers, they could make an approach- too haz- ardous for them to face its risks. All the extra guns and. pistols were carefully examined, loaded, and placed in' Castle Armstrong, while the females--gincluding .Mrs. Armstrong, who was now aroused to the-necessity of exertion-were actively engaged in rehearsing and making sure of their accomplishment of rapid loading. To guard against the dangers of fire, all the pails and other utensils they possessed were now filled with water at the river, and placed at cofivenient points under the wagons. In such labors the day wore on, and the sun again disappeared in the west, yet still there were no signs of an enemy. Every one appeared, however, to feel that the coming night was the most critical period of their fate, and a thrill of aniiety .ran through the little party when the time arrived for placing the' 4  ty 74          ARIAN ROOKE; OR, sentries. Somewhat to the surprise of the western men, and yet to the obvious satisfaction of most of the company, Hugh Gifford insisted upon being placed at the perilous station by the ford, where poor Dennis had lost his life the night before. "The place is important," he said. "I feel no need of sleep, and my mind will be the easier for being there." It was finally agreed that Luke and Dr. Landale should hold the post until two o'clock, and that they should then be relieved by Gifford and Ike-Seth Arm- strong insisting that at that particular place, at least, there should be two sentries for the night. There were three others posted along the line of the wagons, and as Seth inwardly resolved that somine one in addition should remain awake in the Castle, he felt tolerably secure against surprise.   ' In accordance with these arrangements, Hugh determined to force himself, if possible, to sleep in the early par't of the night, i. in ordet that he might be thoroughly wakeful at the dangerous period of his watch. Whether he saw a design shaping itself in the speaking face of Mary Anlne when she heard-that he and Ike were to be on watch after two or no is doubtful; but it is certain that, after the band had shared their unusually quiet and thought- ful supper, he found his way to where the girl was standing by the Castle, looldking sorrowfully upon the ground. He laid his hand * upon her arm. "You will not leave-the Castle to-night, Miss Armstrong." "You are sure I meant to do so, then?-But why not?" "There is danger in it-real danger-to which you must not be exposed." "And you?" It is my duty-some one must do it,--I as well as others. But on you there is no such demand." "I have no fear." '  , "But I have-on your account-and I beg you not to come." "You particularly wish me not to come?" "Yes-I request-I beg it."             , "Then I will not. Only   "  "Only what?s Promise me one thing." "What is it?" "Nay, but promise." "Well then, I promise." "That you will run no needless risks-that you will take care of yourseJf." "I am sure to do that," said Hugh, smiling. "Ah, you are jesting-you are not sincere. Remember the   i I            THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       75 promise should be as grave, as fully meant to be implicitly kept -aS mine."    .  "Indeed it shall be, then." ' "Good night then---ad-and-- eaven guard yo!" The voice was tremulous, and Hugh turned quickly in some surprise to look at Mary Anne's face; yet even had she stood still he would scarce have seen it, for the dusk was gathering fast; but she had fled away and joined Mrs. Armstrong and Kitty in the Castle. So Hugh returned to the camp fire, and wrapping himself in a buffalo skin, lay down to sleep. His mind was ranging rapidly over many and opposite themes, and he found it no easy task to forget his consciousness ; but with perseverance he at last succeeded, and fell into a gentle slumber. At the appointed hour he was awakened by Luke: !"I Wouldn't rouse ye, Mr. Gifford, but I suppose we must be' strict now in obeying orders." ' Quite right. All has been quiet, I suppose?" "Not a critter stirring; not so much as a night hawk or an owl. The doctor's been makin' what he calls astral observa- tions.  "Where alre He and Lion?" "Oh, they've been up this half-hour watchin' the doctor. I think Ike's got an idea that he ought to keep about so that if the Injuns come he could pack 'em off as he did afore.' Hugh shook his head.   "They won't come in a way to leave time for parley. That chance before was one in a thousand. We've no right to count on such luck twice.", "No, I reckon not. I do wish some more of our folks would happen by. That would be the best luck that could befall us now. It makes my heart sick, Mi. Gifford, when I think of mother and those two gurls, and that-we mayn't be strong enough to defend em." "Ve mustn't think of that-we will be strong enough." "She dropped this out of her bosom by the wagon this even- ing, and as I was going to be where poor Dennis met his death I thought it might serve as a sort of talisman like, and that she wouldn't miss it until to-morrow morning, so I put it here over my heart."  As he spoke, Luke held in his hand a  small, morocco-bound volume. Gifford  took it mechanically and looked at it by the light of the fire. It was a Testament, and as he turned it over it opened at the fly-leaf, and he saw there written, insmall but distict characters, the name-- "] MAxlaN R OOE001."        I   7G         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, 'And as he returned the volume, by the same light of the fire he looked into Luke Armstrong's honest eyes, and then Gifford -aw for the first tilne that Luke'loved her. "Strange," he thought, as he went to his watch, "passing strange. And yet, why strange? Is it remarkable that a fine, honest, young fellow, stlrong, comely, well-principled, should fall in love with abeautiful girl-apoor girl, too, with nothing but her own exertions to dependuponfor subsistence? Is it-strange that Luke should love, ay, or marry her? Is it not rather natural? True, there may be something incongruous between their manners, their educations; but in a new country where the strong arm and the manly spirit are the main stays for protection and sustenance, what matter?"     ' - So reasoned Hugh as he stood in the. starlight, glancing up and down the stream, now looking before him, now behind, ever vigilant as feeling the deep responsibility of his trust. "What matter?" he mused, his thoughts running into a fre- quent channel; " what matter for culture,.reflection, intellectual graces? In a country like this it is the capacity for rude toil, the power which accumulates and retains material things alone -which is desirable, for it alone gains leadership or distinction. What matter.? That a woman fall of refinement and rich in feminine delicacy, highly educated, keenly appreciative, should love and wed a lrstic, hard-handed ploughlman ' A mere boor! No, no, that is unjust; Luke is not .so bad as that; a good fellow with a sound heart and plenty of comnmon sense, if not much book- learning; and, perhaps, after all she may fancy him; stranger things have been." Here Hugh began to think that somehow it did matter, not-' withstanding his subtle arguments to the contrary. He fell to envying Luke. "Something to love-something to love! What a hope, what a daily pleasure, what a nightly consolation!" His eye fell on Ike and Lion sitting together at a little distance. The man's arm was thrown caressingly round the dog's neck, and he seemed to be whispeiring to the creature, as, indeed, he often did. "There; what a comfort does that poor fellow hourly enjoy in the affectioi even of a dumb beast, while I " Here hisconscience gave the dreamer a sudden twinge; for was he not also blessed-blessed with the love of Virginia? A cool night breeze came hurtling and sighing through the melancholy trees, and seemed to answer the question sadly enough. At the same moment Gifford heard a muffled cry, like thedistantshriekofan owl. "Some signal, perhaps," he thought,   -I .4$ THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.              7 'and he grasped his rifle more tightly and peered more anxiously into the obscure around him. A log came floating gently down the river, and slid into the shadow of the bank beneath the spot where he stood. The next instant a figure rose as if from under his feet, and, as swiftly, Gifford's 'rifle was at its breast. CMy brother will not shoot," said the calm, deep voice of Washashaco, " he will not fire upon the friend who trusts him." The young man hesitated: ' One of our number has been treacherously slain when Wasshahaco was our guest; when we discovered the crime, Washashaco had fled away, and could no longer be found." "He knew that his white brothers might doubt him," re- turned the chief, quietly; " but when he saw that the Pawnees were at hand, it was needful that he should at once find and talk to his braves. There is little time to tell stories on the war-path." "Yopu say that the Pawnees are at hand?"' "One of their scouts made his way hither unperceived by the Delawares. He crept on the ground like a snake, and sur- prised the white man who stood here last night. Something frightened him, and he crawled away, taking neither his scalp nor his rifle." "When knew you that this deed had been done?" "Washashaco saw that the man was missing when his brothers assembled to eat. He passed quickly this way, and found him dead: then he crossed therivecr, and struck the trail of the Indian who had slain him: at noon he camne up with him in the mountains and took his scalp. Behold!" Gifford turned With disgust from the ghastly trophy. "And where are my brother's young men-the braves of his tribe?" "One is close at hand, the others la few miles away." "And the Pawnees?" "About as far, but in another direction. My braves thought they would remain for another day to rest, but the one who has come thinks otherwise; he thinks they will be here to-morrow. Washashaco, therefore, sent him at sunset to bring up his war- riors at once." How numerous are the enemy?" "Theyare verymany. Mybrothers will have to fight hard. But they'can depend upon the Delawares. I go to lead them hither." Gifford paused and reflected. He was in doubt as to the wisest course for!m to pursue. Oughbt hle not, now that the chief was in their power, to insist on his remaining in the camp, at least until the imminence of the danger was past, or until   further investigation could be made as to the murder of the - sentry? "Willit not be better for Washashaco to iremain with his  white brothers? They will then be satisfied of his friendship, i and that hle had no hand in the killing of their friend. He can  fight here with his brothers, if they are attacked, as well as  elsewhere: Will he not remain?" "The Delawares will not fight well without their chief. Washashaco must go to lead them." Hughl again hesitated. "His brothers thought it unfriendly  ! of Washashaco to leave them without farewell at the moment    they had lost one of their number." He stopped, not knowing exactly how to suggest a doubt without giving offence. "Washashaco's ears are open." "I may be,-blamed for not urging him to remain until they can see him to shake hands with himn in the morning."      ' The Indian looked intently on the speaker with his dark, glittering eyes: "My brother doubts the good faith of Washa- shaco?" "I do not; but others, perhaps " "Listen," said the red man sternly. "I go to bring my braves to the help of my white brothers. I will not remain in their camp. I will shake hands with 5 ou in sign of faith with all. A chief of the Delawares cannot lie. I have spoken." Hle stretched forth his hand, as he concluded, with an air of command so princely, that Gifford could not repress a thrill of  secret admiration. During the colloquy, too, the dog Lion had approached, and, recognizing Washasfiaco, gave every indica- ;ion of pleasmwe and confidence. The Indian looked down and smiled. "Be it so," said Gifford, with decision, and, grasping the  proffered hand; "I will tell my friends that the Delaware chief will not fail them in their hour of need." "Let them be watchful as the lynx, for the Pawnees are many mnd cunning. The battle may be long and fierce, but the vic- ;ory will be the more glorious. I go."             I "Farewell, then, brave warrior.  The battle has many hances, and we may meet no more." The Delawares are taught to carry their lives in their hands, ind they know that their time on the earth is short," said Wash-  ishaco, solemnly. "The Great Spirit has ordered that my peo-  i le shall disappear one by one firom their old homes, and that  he children of the white man shall take their places. A few  rears, more or less, matter little to Washashaco or his braves,  i.    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         79 and, if they die gloriously, they care not when their hour may comle. They' may die; but they will remain faithful to the mighty memories of their race. The children of the Lenni Le- nape will not give their fathers cause to blush in the happy hunting-grounds. To the last, the name of the Delaware, driven firom his lands, broken in numbers, fading away, like a mist, though hle is, shall be respected and terrible among all the tribes of the red men! Their footsteps are far from their ancient home,.and their bones will whiten the prairie a long way from the graves of their fathers; but their spirits will dwell in the land for ever! They will roam at will through the forests aud the plains, they will lie on the banks of their own loved rivers, and listen to the sound of the mighty cataract! And they will wander freely over the hunting-grounds, which once were theirs, long after the last red man has been taken from the earth, ald the memory even of the race which succeeds him shall be forgotten!" The chieftain was silent, and ere the last deep tones of his voice had ceased to vibrate, he had folded his blanket about him, and his tall form had glided swiftly away into the darkness. I   CHAPTER IX. THE sun was some hor's'high, and the little band were await- ing, in sullen expectancy, the onset of the savages, which now seemed inevitable. For since daybreak they had seen, at several points among the hills - belhind them, curling puffs of smoke, which not only told that the Indians were near, but, what was still more ominous, that their numbers made concealment need- less. The sun was some hours high, yet he gave only an imperfect light It was one of those heavy, vaporous atmospheres which, when we feel they carly no moisture, seem so- inexplicable; an atmosphere often seen on deserts where no water is, or in climates which have dry seasons long protracted. The sun's rays, strug- gling through the murky air, gave a sickly, yellow light, and the luminary himself looked a dull, red ball. The mountains east of the camp appeared shadowy and dim; the clear outlines and tangible colors, seen by the party on the hopeful eve when they descended to the banks of the stream, were no longer visible. No more sunny slopes and reaching   80         MEAIAN ROOKE; OR, vistas; no more purple and blue and gold; nothing but huge, indistinct masses, suffused with a dreary monotone of grayish red. The plains on the wcest looked arid and obscure. They were desolate enough to the eye at the best of times, but the vast stretch now appeared inexpressibly sombre; and the long waves of soil, and the scanty shrubs which crested the% were all tinged alike with the pervading muddy hue.        l "Nahum thinks there must be an awful sight of 'em," half whispered Seth Armstrong to Gifford, as they stood on the small eminence which overlooked their line of defene. His grizzled face was lined with anxiety, and his voice came a little thick as he spoke. "Few or many, we must fight them," replied Hugh with a white light in his eye, which always came there in moments of resolution. We've done all that men can do in the way of prepaxation, and we must look to our own right arms-and God's helDp-for the rest." 'His will be done," said Seth solemnly. "I would ha' liked to git across in peace, but if so be that we must fight fort,- why fight let it be." "They don't seem to vally us no moreln so many beavers," observed Nahum Pelter, sauntering up to the group on the hil- lock. The man was chewing more rapidly than usual, but this was the only mark he showed of sharing any uncommon interest. "I shouldn't wonder if there was a hundred of the red devifsi. "Pray Heaven not," exclaimed the doctor fervently, "or we've had our last supper." "Time enough to cry when'we're hurt. Ten good men, with plenty o' grit and a little luck, have whipped a hundred red skins afore now. Shoot low, shoot steady, never throw away a shot, and allers have some loads in reserve; them's the pints we want to look to." "And so we will," cried Luke cheerfully. "Who knows? If the Indians get a sharp repulse at the beginnin' of a fight, I've 'heard they'll often give it up and leave. Let's hope it 'll be so now."        -  They am't like to quit," said Dick Railes, "onlesB they think that by hangi' on, others may come up and take a hand,- and so add to the chances agin 'em. They know darned well how onlikely it is for us to Ot help while the scrimmage's goin' on." You forget the Delawares," remarked Gifford. "There's the pint: Accordin' to what the chief said to you, he didn't think the Pawnees would be here for a hull day; and n y'    n   :t0'l         ' ' ,THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        81 look at 'em! Now, if his men don't come up soon, it looks to me as though we'd heyv to fight without 'ern." '"Depend upon it, he knowis the danger, and will strain every nerve to forestall it. But look! They will give us little time, I fear!" All eyes were turned in the direction indicated, and as speed- ily saw how grave was thie cause for the speaker's apprehen- sion. A large body of Indians appeared on horseback in their rear, and were slowly winding downi the defile6 taken, by their own train in descending the fobot hills. They made no attempt ,at concealment, and. rode in irregular order, as if perfectly at ease, and confident of carrying out their designs. At the dis- tance, nothing more could be discerned than that they were about twenty-five in number, and that, although some carried fire-arms, the majority seemed only provided with lances and bows and arrows. A feeling of relief came over the hearts and faces of the white men, as each thus descried, and drew his conclusions from these details of the approaching array. 'Come,"' said Seth, drawing a long breath, "come!   If these be'all we've got to handle, we mayn't have sech a bad lookout as we thought for."' Nahum Pelter shook his head.  There never was Injun yet who showed his hand like that without hidin' something he didn't show. They've jest divided their gang, that's what it is, and they' re goin' to close us in all round, same as they do the buffalo!" An exclamation burst from the doctor as Pelter finished, which drew attention from the east to the west. '4 Look! look there!" Far away on the plain there appeared a knot of horsemen seemingly on the verge of the horizon. - There might have been six or eight of them, and so far there was no great occasion for alarm; but presently others fwere seen to the right and left, as if they were beating the plain for game. In another moment still more became visible on the outskirts of the others; and now there was no part of the semi-circle behind the line of the wagons, but was dotted with dark, threatening figures. All were mounted, and all were converging as to a common centre, Astaight down upon the little camp. ' There are seventy of 'em if there's one," said the doctor with a groan. "To your posts, men!" shouted-Seth, hoarsely; "we've no time to waste!" e^   82         MARIAI, ROOKE; OR, The dispositions which had been agreed upon required some modification, owing to the probably .complicated nature of the expected attack. It had been thought tht a very small portion of the scanty force would suffice to hold the ford, and it had been determined to place the men likely to be most efficient, along the firont line, where they would lave ample cover, and could use their rifles to the best advanta:ge. This arrangement was so far hastily altered as to put Nahum Pelter in charge at that nowocritical point with three pthers, including poor Ike and his constant companion. It was thought, and justly, that the dog, sagacious and-amenable as he was, might do good service in the event of a rush being made by the enemy in numbers at the crossing. This little band was provided with double sets of rifles, besides revolvers -and long knives; and Nahum had, in addition, a laige ducking gun, which, to use his own expression, he had "rammed full of slugs" for close quarters. On the left of the front, Dick Railes was placed in charge, supported by the doctor and two others, Luke holding the cen- tre, and Seth himself, with Hugh Giitord, being stationed at the Castle. The party was thus detailed over a line of some forty yards in length, the river covering their rear with tolerable effi- cacy, save at the weak point so well guarded by Pelter. It was fortunate for the little band that the ground on the op- posite bank of the stream was low and flat for a long distance toward the hills, and that it swelled upwards on their own side, forming a knoll in about the centre of the camp, depressing again as it ran to the line of wagons. The result of these acci- dents was that no rakling fire upon the men holding the main line could be opened in the rear from the opposite bank; while it enabled them to gain time by reconnoitring, and, if need be, opposing- an approach in that direction, from behind the friendly shelter of the ridge, without entirely drawing off their attention from enemies in front. The position was certainly a very strong one; whether it were sufficiently so to enable the garrison to hold it against vastly superior numbers, remained to be seen. The Indians on the plain had now approached to within a dis- tance of about four hundred yards, while those descending the defile had apparently come to a halt, since their column had for several minutes remained without emerging from one of its turnings which concealed it firom view. Those on the plain now dismounted, and it could be seen that their dress was somewhat similar to that of the chief of the Delawares. They were, however, of inferior height and presence, and their countenances were hideously daubed with paint. Most of this party bore   t    .      rHE QUEST FOR FORTNE.   .      83 ^ "' ,' 1,                    '     short rifles, as well as knives and tomahawks carried in their belts, while the rest, in addition to the latter weapons, had for- midable-looking spears. One of the party now advanced a few yards before the others, and, with amicable gestures, unrolled the long skin which he had carried at his back, and performed the manceuvre employed by Washashaco, as an indication of friendly intentions. Upon this demonstration, although having small hopes of its sincerity, Seth and Gifford ascended the knoll and made friendly gestures in response, which were, in turn reciprocated by the savage. At this point of the proceedings, the Indians slowly and cautiously drew somnewhat nearer, and their leader made signs, proposing that his party should enter their camp, and pay the white men a visit. To this thel atter signified a courteous refusal, which was not altogether well received. The Indians soon commenced aviolent discussion among themselves, which terminated in their chief, with some difficulty, intimating to the whites that his band had missed one of their number, whom they supposed to be in the travellers' camp, and that unless he were given up they intended to come and search for him. To this Seth and Gifford could only reply that the missing man was not there, and again 'decline the proffered visit. The warrior then sug- gested, aby way of satisfying his braves, that the white men should all come and show thenselves on the eminence where their spokesman stood, and thus prove to the Indians that their lost comrade was not among them. This transparent artifice poor Seth, in his earnest desire to avert a collision, failed to see through, and he called to the others to join him on the ridge, which most of them were in the act of doing, when the bass shout of Nahum Pelter was heard behind : "Be ye all mad? Do ye all want to git shot down in a bunch like wild pigeons? Down! down! every man while he can   The warning did not come too soon; for, whether fearful their trick would be un'derstood, or, from some other reason, that they might get no other opportunity, the savages paused no longer. The sharp crack of a dozen rifles was heard, and al- though they did small damage beyond a flesh wound in the thigh for Jabez Fitch, andthe perforation of Seth's fur cap, they were well meant enough to clear the knoll in a trice, and drive the whites to their postintent on sharp hostilities. At the same instant, the report of Pelter's rifle rang through the air, followed in quick succession by three other shots. The whole front line now opened on their assailants in a volley, and   84         MARIAN ROOKE; OR the Indians, with demoniac shouts, rushed forward to the as- sault. Keeping up a. running fire as they advanced, the enemy reached a point within twenty yards of the wagons with a loss of only two or three of their number; but at this critical mo- ment the garrison delivered their reserved fire with deadly effect, nearly as many savages falling as there had been shots. The advance wavered, and finally retreated in confusion, bearing off their fallen companions. An exulting cheer went up from the little band as they swiftly reloaded theiir weapons and exchanged congratulations. None were hurt at this first onset, and they accepted the immunity as a happy augury. Well done, boys!" cried Pelter, his huge form appearing on the ridge from the ford. We've peppered three on 'em, sartain, down on our side, and they dursen't take to the water! Keep on as well as you're doin', and we'll beat 'em off yet." "No one is hurt?" asked Mary Anne, looking anxiously from the wagon. "None, thank Heaven," replied Hugh; " but pray do not show yourself thus; you will attract their attention, and draw their fire on the castle." "We W have four guns," said the girl, " and are ready to use them." "Not yet, not yet; things are not so desperate yet as to make it needful or wise for you to expose yourselves. Pray retire."  Even as he spoke a bullet struck the top of the wagon, and, tearing away a shred of canvas in its course, sped on across the river. A cry burst from Luke, who saw the incident from his post. "Back! back!" he shouted, "and lie down in the wagon! There's men enough left to be killed without women helpin' 'em. See! the red devils are comin' on again! Make her go in, Mr. Gifford, do!".  "I will go in," said the girl, steadily, but very pale. "I will go in, but onlybecause I can do as much within as without." Indeed, she and Kitty had cut slits in the canvas on the side towards the enemy, and now prepared to swell the next volley as the foe came on, by pointing through these apertures the arms they possessed. Sminall time was given for preparation, for the Indians were rushing forward with as much show of resolution as before. This time they advanced in much looser order, spreading them.   I4 -          THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        85 ;iV.: selves further apart than at first, and leaping and whooping to distract the aim of the whites. The latter, however, prudently withheld their fire until the enemy was even nearer than at first, and then poured in a double volley with much more destructive effect. Again the assailants retreated, and again were congrat- ulations exchanged. But matters were looking graver at the ford.' Despite the cover of the group of cottonwoods, one of Nahum Pelter's handful had been hit, and although the around was not fatal, it was serious enough to keep the sufferer firom being of further use in the fray. He was carried back to a safe place by Ike, and the doctor summoned in haste to his assistance. Thus the defence was at once weakened by two rifles, a fact of which the red men were speedily aware. - They did not attempt for the present a third general advance, but contented themselves by keeping tp a heavy, though desul- tory fire, hoping by chance to disable others, and make the re- mainder an easy prey when they should resolve on a final charge. This policy the white men met in turn, by keeping securely behind their cover, and wasting no ammunition in reply. An hour thus wore on, the little band lying grim and resolute on their arms, the Indians actively circling about them striving to spy out some vulnerable spot, or to catch a'chance at some ex- posed, one of their otherwise invisible foes. Tired at last of these unproductive tactics, a new manceuvre was resolved upon, and to their other dangers the beleaguered band were now threatened with those of fire. A shower of burning arrows' were thrown among the brush which has been described as forming an abattis, and connecting the wagons while it masked the movements of those behind. Should this be consumed, not only would they be deprived of their best cover, but openings would be made whereby the enemy might make their way into the camp. The water which had been prudently made ready to meet this emergency was now used with good effect; but those who used it were neces- sarily more exposed than before to the fire of the Indians, and the man Fitch, who had been slightly hurt earlier in the day, now fell mortally wounded by a bullet through the body. At this heavy cost the flames were extinguished; but it was clear that the assailants could repeat their incendiary efforts whenever they chose, and even should they be defeated at a similar expense, on each occasion, it was easy to reckon the small space that lay between the devoted party and extermina- tion.   ' .00 . .    MARIAN ROOKE ; OR The Indians were apparently satisfied with this prospect, and willing to rest awhile from their labors. Their' fire slackened, they no longer threw burning arrows, and the white men thus found time for hasty consultation. It was long past noon now, and .the hope which had buoyed many of their hearts during the unequal strife had begun to fail them. "iWhere," asked Setl! drawing a powder-blackened hand across his brow, which looked ten years older since yesterday, "where, think ye, are the Delawares?" Hugh shook his head without reply. He was, indeed, miser- ably disappointed; for, irrespective of the pressing need of his services and those of his wariors,.the young man had placed implicit'faith in Washashaco; and he grieved as much as a man could grieve, surrounded by so much that was exciting and en- grossing, over the chief's defection. Pelter crept over to say a word, but it wa not now a word of encouragement; and Luke came over and grasped his father's horny hand with a sad look at the wagon, more expressive than words; the doctor came, too with set teeth and a bandage about his head. They had lost four out of their scanty number, besides one or two with slight wounds. All saw, what none ' cared in words to express, that there was nothing before them but to die like men. On came the Indians once again, and again the now desperate band rushed to their posts for a last struggle. Again the blaz- ing missiles were hurled into the brush, and the flames this time mounted higher than before. Again were desperate efforts made to extinguish them; but the fire had more heart this time, and so had the assailants. With yells and screeches and appall- ing whoops, they swarmed on, not heeding now those who dropped among their number. The last shot of the whites was expended and still their foes swept on. The blaze now caught one of the wagons, and at this place a gap had been made, larger than any other. Through this gap poured the exulting savages, but the two first fell by the rifles of Pelter and Ike, who sprang up the ridge to help beat back the assault. At this terrible moment Seth Armstrong was hit by a chance bullet, and his right arm fell powerless by his side; but, nothing daunted, he seized an axe, and stood bareheaded, with his gray hair streaming in the wind, in front of the wagon where the females were, prepared to defend it to the last. But Hugh Gifford sprang toward the breach as if, though but for a minoment, to contest its passage. As he did so a terrific war-whoop sounded firom the ford.   US   '        THE QUEST - FOR FORTUNE.        87 "Hurrah!" shouted Nahum Pelter, as he bounded down from the slope, " hurrah! 'Tis the war-cry of the Delawares! Stand firm, boys! We'll lick 'em yet." As he spoke, the giant threw himself headlong into the gap, whirling his long rifle, and dashing the Incians right and left to the earth at every whirl. It really seemed that he could hold the pass single-handed against the surging mass who opposed him. For,three minutes, in truth, he did so; and' those three minutes doubtless saved the lives of the rest of the party, but they cost the gallant frontiersman his own; for he fell at last like some noble tree, surrounded by the dead and wounded of his foes. During this struggle Ike had pressed bravely forward to the aid of his comrade, but, before the latter had fallen, the poor sim- pleton was struck in the breast by a tomahawk hurled by a savage who had managed to pierce the line below the larger breach. As he fell, the dog Lion sprang with a fierce howl at the throat of his assailant, and bore him also to the earth; but a second red man was close at the heels of the first, and he raised his hatchet to brain the noble beast from behind. Whether incited by the imploring look in Ike's eyes as he lay on the ground or not, Gifford was fortunately in time to anticipate this stroke; and, clubbing his rifle, he dealt the Indian a blow on .the temple, which stretched him lifeless by Ike's side. Having succeeded in overwhelming their huge opponent, the Pawnees now leaped in numbers over his body into the camp, but they met other and fresher foes than they counted upon; for Washashaco with his braves had crossed the stream above the ford, and now rushed down the hill, uttering the terrible war-whoop of the Delawares. This onset, so sudden, so unex- pectedl as it was, appeared to fill the Pawnees with terror. Six or eight were shot down at once, almost without lifting a hand, and the next instant the Delawares were upon and among them, striking and destroying without mercy. The females now handed freshy-loaded weapons to their friends, and a volley from Luke, Dick Railes, and the Doctor, dis- charged into the crowd on the plain outside, completed the dis- comfiture of the attacking party. They fled in all directions, leaving their dead and wounded to the mercy of the conquerors, while they sought to reach their horses on the open beyond. The yells and shots of their pursuers, however, produced a stam- . ; pede among the horses, and doubled *the confusion of the rout.  The Delawares followed up their advantage relentlessly, and, in half an hour, of the numbers who commenced the attack, scarcely a tithe were living and unhurt.    88-        MAR- AN ROOKE; OR, Washashaco, returning from the pursuit, found his friends mourning over their dead. He paused by the body of Nahum Pelter. "He was a great warrior," said the chieftain, solemnly, " and died as a warrior should. My brothers can now go forward in safety," he continued, pointing to the plain, where the last of the broken enemy could be seen flying before the victorious Del- awares.. "My brothers can go on their journey in peace; there are now no red men to stop their path from this place to the Great Lake of Bitter Waters!" END OF THE FIRST BOOK.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.                  89 BOOK THE SECOND. CHAPTER I. THE time has arrived when some brief explanation may be- fit- ting, both as regards what has already been given of this nar- rative and what may hereafter be related. There is a piece of information which, although it may not be strictly due to the reader, is yet likely to be in some degree satisfactory, as clearing up doubts and solving the manner of treating the characters of certain individuals of our story, which otherwise might appear to be needlessly cloudedand incomplete. When the author first determined on his work, his design was to set forth with tracing the adventures of its principal personages from the time when he first encountered and knew them in the wilds of California ; but he afterwards thought such a narrative would be better rounded and more interesting if the leader were made acquainted with the eventful journey across the plains on which those char- acters first met, and whence the mutual influence of diverse natures might be supposed to have begun. Thus it fell out, then, that what he has called the First Book was taken down chiefly from the lips of Hugch Gifford, a circumstance which will explain the absence of any particular elaboration touching that gentleman's own peculiarities; and also, perhaps, account for some indications of reticence in describing the motives -or thoughts of others. So far as these omissions are concerned, they might possibly have been fatal to the intelligibility of his story had not the author been able to elicit from femninine sources such links and fragments as connected the gaps, and enabled him to construct a tolerably  comprehensive whole. Human beings are rarely good judges of their owrn moral or aesthetic development, but those among .them who are the best, are seldom apt to be free in imparting its history. Hugh was    90         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, e - more like William the Silent than Michel de Montaigne, and( although he would readily tell you what he had done, or even at times what he meant to do, he was grudging as to what he had thought and felt. But Marian-well, we shall see and judge her for ourselves, for' it was many weeks that we lived within sight of her almost ideal beauty, within sound of her musical voice, in the same family, indeed, all of us digging and straining for yel- low earth, in the lovely country that nestled about Armstrong's Bar. Beautiful land of California! .Beautiful in thy soaring moun- tains, beautiful in thy laughing plains, in thy lakes and valleys, thy brimming rivers and thy sublime cataracts! Noble and yet mysterious land-where with all the vastness and solitude of primeval wilds there were found long reaches of velvety turf, shiaded by giant trees, and as free from underbrush ." an English park; reaches where one could gallop for miles and miles and yet see no sign of a living thing; where after soime long and easy ascent, -perchance, the trees grew thicker and the air grew darker, till of a sudden, bursting on the eye with a food of light, there stretched below a landscape of such surpassing and cultivated loveliness that the gazer could scarce believe-such is the force of prejudice and. association-that it had not been for ages the abode of man, sm6ootled, softened, and redeemed firom natural savagery by works of art arid of agriculture. But as he gazed on he saw that it was not so., No line of smoke, no roof- tree, could his narrowest scrutiny dethect in the spacious panorama before him. No broken column relieved with its sculptured whiteness the unvaried green of the foliage. No fragment of some springing dome intercepted the endless waves of the tree- tops. No cattle or sheep browsed over the boundless meadows so loaded with luxuriant vegetation, as if for their needs. No figures-more mournful deficiency than any other-no figures of human beings with crooks in hand and bits of bright color about their dress, to catch the- eye with a comforting assurance that life and sympathy were there! Nature alone-nature at once grand jin her own majesty and made delicate and various by the constant suggestion of refined inhabitants, but of whomn the closest eye could find no trace. It seemed as if capricious genii had swept by night through some Arcadian vale, rich in the labor of classic hands, stored with piles and piles of priceless architecture-temples, arches, fanes-and borne them, like Alad- din's palace, carefully away, leaving nature's work and nature's - work alone behind. Such was California-at least, such parts of it as I best knew.    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.          91 California, which, with her delicious atmosphere, her sunny skies, her teeming fertility, has tangible attractions besides those of al  her pomp of scenery and her feverish glare of gold, to draw earth's discontented wanderers to her soil, and, if they be wise, to keep them there. For me there is no need to call up associa- tions connected with discoveries of the precious ore, to think of California as essentially a land of romance. The air alone-so different from that of the harsh, easterly exposures of the Alantic coast-makes the pulse quicken even in memory, and the heart beat with retrospective gratitude for its inspiriting beneficence. Where the body is healed and comforted, the spirit is likewise apt to be, and the recollection of lif6 is most prosaic which is passed in ungenial climes. Physical discomfort-the constant struggle against unfavorable external conditions-is a sad draw- back on poetic memories as well as poetic feelingr; and although the Norsemen had bards as well as the Greeks there is not much diffrence of opinion as to the relative inspiration of their muse. The misery which is taught in song may come of the east wind, but its love and its melody, its perfume and its hope, must be inspired by the balmy breath of the south and the west. Yes, California was to me a land of romance; and not less so that I met there for the first time those friends of ours with whom the reader is already somewhat acquainted. It was a soft evening in the spring of 1851 that, having wan- dered in many directions with many objects, chance or fate drew me near the spot where these firiends had made their camp and set up their tents. All the afternoon I had been walking, trot- ting, or cantering my .horse through such park-like glades. as I have essayed to describe. The last stopping-place had been twenty miles behind, but the day Was fine, and the track not diffilcult to follow, since one had merely to keep withn easy dis- tance of a stream which flowed on the left, and on whose banks the settlement, which was the goal of my journhey, was to be found. There had been, however, an abrupt rise in the rolling country, and for some miles the tall trees, always ascending be-' fore, told me I was gaining a -considerable elevration. This led me to swerve more to the right, to keep clear of the river, whose banks must now be high and precipitous; and, thus inclining, the forest grew denser, until the tall redwoods seemed almost dis- posed to dispute my further passage. It was getting towards evening, too, and although hostile Indians were said to be few in that region, yet an occasional grizzly was stumbled upon, and was pretty certain to prove a very dangerous customer. Just as this disagreeable thought flashed acoss my mid, the deep bay this disgreeable huh'lse    across my mind, the deep a   92     :MAmAN ROOKE; OR, :       o of a dog rang forth in the thicket beyond, and put to flight alO fear of any such terrible neighbor; fol it was not the bark of an Indian's cur, -or the dismal whine of the coyote, and I knew. at once that white men must be near. A few moments longer, and my conviction was verified, although the faces I saw would scarcely have passed for Caucasian ill an Atlantic city. There were two of them bronzed to more than a mahogany color, and, at the first glance, neither in expression nor manner did the strangers seem very prepossessing. They-were seated on a log in a small natural clearing, and a mountain brook was babbling along beside them; two men in leathern hunting-shirts and leg- gings of what appeared to be of the same material. The elder had little else in the' way of dress or trappings, save /a broad knife stuck in his girdle; he had a white line scored across one cheek, as I -aterwards learned, by a rifle bullet. The younger man was more curiously arrayed, for his dress was plentifully bedecked with gaily colored feathers and beads, interspersed here and there by pieces of bright scarlet cloth. The two had a tin ewer or pan on the log between them, which they were shaking back and forth, watching it -the while with eager in- terest. "Down, Lion, down!" cried one of the men, just before my horse emerged into the open. " There ain't no 'Injuns near abouts, I tell ye, and as to the bars, they're a gettin' too all-fired smart to travel so close to the settlement. Down, I tell ye!" "Lion knows more nor you or me, Dick Railes," exclaimed his companion.  If he says red-skin, it's red-skin. If he says bar; it's bar. Hle don't say neither bar nor red-skin now though, seein' he knows it's a white man!" As he spoke, the dog burst into the area, baying furiously, for the intruder was close at hand. My horse was a trifle rest-. ive under this ungracious welcome, and I hastened to establish more friendly relations. "It is a white man, my friends," I cried, "and one who means no one harm ; so, perhaps, you'll call off this trusty sen- tinel of yours, whom my horse seems to think a grizzly in dis- guise."    -  But Iion barked no longer. The sound of my voice, and the fact that his companions knew of my presence, were quite suffi- cient for the sagacious creature, who now lay down close to the log in silence, only questioning my every movement with his bright, penetrating eyes. ' More on 'em!" said the elder man, in a discontented tone. 'That's three since Sunday. Honey and bees is nuthin' to 't. ,           *   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        93 You air a stranger, you ai; sir. You're welcome sure enough, so fur's hung beef and hoe-cake goes, and shiakedown for that matter. But there's poor diggins round here.' That's so. May be," he continued, his face brightening with a look of sudden hope and reassurance, "May be, ye don't reckon to stay round here? Like as not, you're gpin' on to Yankee Jim's, or Shirt- tail Canon?" I shook my head.  I was going to ask you to show me the way to Armstrong's Bar."       / My interlocutor groaned. "You're sure ye hadn't rather keep on to Yankee Jim's? It's drefful poor pickin' hereabouts. Itave a chaw, stranger?" "Not now, thank you. Then you don't know the way to Armstrong's?"         ' "Know it? Why, I know it backwards, and every inch fif- teen miles' up and dclown both sides of the river. Ye hain't heard how fast they're scratchin' out the coarse gold up at the Canon, have ye?" I explained that I did not come for the immediate purpose of digging, but to see the country; and that my object was to pro- ceed at once to Armstrong's Bar. The first part of my state- ment seemed to afford my companion great relief and satisfaction. "Don't mean to dig, eh? Well, it is hard work, and harder down our way than most any wheres else. As for the Bar, I kin take ye there, and I will. Not that the boys like strangers pooty well. They're kinder sot agen 'em. There was an editor there last month from Marysville ; a curus kind of a chap, but I guess he means well. His name was Zelotes Panghurn, it wor; and the boys treated him as slick as they knew how; but he turned agen 'cm." "Hooray!" shouted the other so suddenly that the dog leaped up with a quick bark of sympathy. "Hooray! here's the shiny arter all! Ike's found it-moire'n there is anywhere on the Bar! Hooray:!" and he held up in the palm of his hand a little heap of glittering dust. "Shut up, can't ye?" growled Dick Railes; "ye'll have the hull of Californy on the Bar, with your boastin' and howlin'." ' And s'pose I did," cried Ike, "there's more'n enough for all on 'em! and when there ain't Ike ll find more still- mountains of it." I -tell ye what, Ike," proceeded his comrade, s'pose you and Lion travel on ahead, and tell Miss Armstrong. and Kitty this 'ere man's comin' on to the Bar ; they'll want to scare up umnthin' for supper." ,e.   ;94      r^MAKIAN ROOKE; OR, Ike was nothing loath to accede to this arrangement, and he set forth, as theyfassured me, -by a short cut, which would bring him to the settlement much sooner than my horsewould cary me. This cut led toward the left and down the cliffs, Arm- strong's Bar being directly on the banks of the stream, a couple of miles further on. Dick and myself proceeded by a more circuitous route, having to pass airound the base of a series of lofty hills. "He's only a poor nateral," observed Mr. Railes, in a depre- cating tone, as he took in a gigantic slice of his favorite weed, "only a poor nateral.. But the folks thinks a heap of him,.and he lkin fight like sin, he kin." "Fight?" "Fight. He and that there big dog o' his'n jest put four red- skins through their dickies atween 'em, out there on the plains. That's so, I was along and seen it; and it wor the hardest day's fight I ever see. Most o' the boys on the Bar was in it, they woi; and there was more that never came out of it." "You had a rough time of it?" "Rough? you can bet high we had. 'Twas just touch and go whether any on us ever came out alive. I never think on't but I feelmy scalp half off, and put up my-hand to see if it's thai."' "And your friends at the Bar were in this struggle, you say?" "Most all on 'em; old Seth, and Luke, and his wife and gals, and the Scotch doctor we've got there, and Hugh Gifford, and Ike, and Lion-you've seen them-and a heap more ; let alone  them we buried where they fell. There was a chap- named Pel- ter, as good a hunter and as true a shot as ever dropped a buck or hit a dollar. He saved the hull party, he did; for he stood like a rock, and blocked the hole where the Injuns was tryin' to pogr in, till the Delawares came to help us." "So that most of the party escaped?" "Yes. Some on 'ena hurt bad, though. Uncle Seth had his arm broke, and poor Ike was hit in the chest with a hatchet. It stunned him like, and the big dog had the redskin that hove it by the throat quicker 'n greased lightnin'; but it wor all day with Lion, it wor, if it hadn't been for Gifford; for he jest cooked another devil who was arter splittin' the critter's head open. A minute more and the Delawares were among us. Painters and screech-owls! I can hear 'em a hollerin' ,now! Louder than thunder, and sharper than a steam-engine! But it wor the pootiest music we ever heerd for all that;, for we Nmew it was friends, and it meant we were saved." '* ,*   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       95 "And you; were you unhurt?" "Not quite; I wor tickled up in the ribs some, and got this wipe across the cheek-mnthin' to speak of. So you see, stranger," continued Mr. Railes, spirting a parenthetical obla- tion far ahead; " so you see, arter goin' through sech lively old times in company, the folks up at the Bar kind o' froze together; and though they hadn't thought of it afore, only meanin' to hitch bosses to cross the plains, they agreed to try and stick to the same diggins, and run with the same machine as long as they could. That's why I'm down on Zelotes Panghurn." "He interfered with this association, then " "Not that you'd say he exactly interfered. But he wrent'and stuck a lot of stuff in-his paper, down to Marysville, 'bout what fat diggins and slick folks there was up to Armstrong's Bar, and how complete and pooty it was, and this set others a chatferin' down at Frisco and other places, and we've just been bothered with strangers ever since." "Well, you understand I don't come to dig or to give trouble, and-- :"     '             - "Oh, no offence; I was only explainin' to ye, ye know, 'bout Zel. ; we're all glad to see folks who don't come to make trouble interferin' with claims. Arter all, we don't do much more'n make a good livin'; for grub, and boots, and tools is so all-fired high, anyhow, and teamin' makes 'em come so much higher, it don't leave much room to dicker on; but we're happy and pom- fortable together, and, if we was let alone, there ain't none of the party 'd vote for a change." It was nearly dusk now, and as my tired horse stepped slowly along, Dick Railes walked by my side, beguiling the way with his rambling accounts of the people at Armstrong's Bar, their likes and dislikes, their adventures on the plains after the en- counter with the savages-which adventures were, as usual after any highly perilous and exciting one, duil and commonplace in comparison-the exploits of Lion and the eccentricities of his master the troubles the party had overcome in getting cover over their heads when they first came on the Bar, and so forth  until, when the stars began to wink through the thickening obscure, and we wound slowly down the hill side into the little settlement, I knew nearly as/much of its habits and its history as my informant himself It was a charming spot, whose beauties not even the deepen- ing shadows could altogether conceal. The washings were at some little distance in a bend of the stream, and hidden by inter- vening slopes; so that there was none of that hideous tearing   yUf     '{ as sttl 1Aff I XU s rV esV/  7 cWM up of the earth, that rifting'and scoring of nature's bosom, which afterwards gave such vast tracts in California so ghastly an appearance; the appearance of a place which has been sub- jected to a terrlific bombardment; where descending shells have sunk into the soil, and, bursting, thrown it in all manner of con- fused heaps and shapeless clods around; Where cannon-balls, flying at a tangent to the surface, have struck inequalities and laid open huge furrows of many yards in length; where .the ground has been turned up from so great a depth that the mould which alone can bear green things is covered over and buried by yellow, sun-burned masses of clay and piles of sterile gravel; where man, having accomplished all the. desolation possible, has fled and left the place a solitude. There are three things, in- deed, in whose pursuit our race make sinilar sacrilegious assaults -leave similar scars upon mother earth-three passions, whose traces may be easily confounded, those for war, travel, and gold. Intrenchments and rifle-pits for defence and attack, excava- tions and embankments for lines of railway, and tearing up the soil for the coveted metal, produce appearances which may be readily mistaken one for the other. But there was no sign of any such violence to be seen as yet at Armstrong's Bar. They came there for gold, it is true, and if it were to be had they would have it. Those who thought, when first leaving the East, that they would till the soil, embark in trade, mend bod- ies, cure souls, or what not, fell to 'pure gold-getting at last, in its simplest form, when they came on the ground. But their toils were happily pursued out of silght of their dwellings, and- rare blessing in the earlier Californian days-women's hands were with them to beautify as well- as women's eyes to keep holy,; so that there were no outward mnarks of plutocracy about the little nest of homes. It was a very odd-looking nest cer- tainly; something like a Cross, perhaps, between a straggling Yankee village and a Bedouin encampment; the two or three edifices, half tent and half shanty; but the turf was green and virgin all around, the neighborhood was scrupulously clean, and there was a dear, sweet odor of climbing vines in the air, which seemed to sanctify the place like incense, because it reminded one of home. There was, at least, no sign of gold-digging about the place, and that of itself was an attraction. These were advantages dimly seen and imperfectly appreci- ated, it is true, on the evening when I came to Armstrong's Bar; but I learned to know and cherish them afterwards, and so describe them rather from later than earlier impressions. My -welcome was a cordial one, however; more so than I had any ,     :           /   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         97 right to expect. But Dick Railes, propitiated, no doubt, by my evident interest in his narrative, and by the more material inci- dent of my not coming to prospect for gold, evidently did his best to launch me comfortably into the good opinion of the tiny society; and although, as usual, those whom I subsequently came to know best were at first most distant, I had passed many an evening less agreeably than my first proved to be at Armstrong's Bar. Seth Armstrong had managed to erect a highly respectable domicile, all things considered. There were, probably, no such things as clap-boards, or planking, or shingles, within many a mile, and a saw-mill was yet unheard of in that region. But the frame of the building Was of stout redwood, with the bark still covering the trees and saplings which served as timbers and joists, and the roof of heavy canvas was steep enough to give fahir promise of dry shelter below. A chimney had been man- aged of adobe, the sunburnt brick used by the Mexicans, half- breeds, native Californians, or whatever else or more properly the singular population could be called, which the Anglo-Saxons found in languid possession when they came to occupy the new appanage of the great republic. There was, therefore, a very comfortable fireplace, and a bright blaze on the hearth not un- welcome to see, for the night was growing chilly. The house was of one story only, but there was a ceiling of canvas some ten feet from the ground, besides the cover afforded by the roof proper, and there were two windows, with real sashes and glass, opposite the door. The space within, which measured some forty by twenty feet, was divided into four rooms, the largest being in the centre, and forming the main apartment, while one end was partitioned off apparently for the females of the fam- ily, and the other for the men. Each of these had serviceable doors leading into .the central hall, which latter was well pro- videi with settles, tables, drhessers, and such necessaries as were requisite to comfort, albeit it was idle to make any pretensions to elegance. From the middle of the ceiling, and about three feet below it, hung a hoop, to which were attached several bits of lighted candle, and which constituted a chandelier of a prim- itive shape and style, indeed, but having its own advantages of convenience-asawellas of safety,'which, in an establishment so largely constructed of cotton, was not to be despised. Several barrels stood in the corners, and alolg the walls were hung fr'om the wood forming the frame of the house various hams, and other articles of provender, of a dried and generally imperishable character. On one side there were also secured a rough set of 5   98         MARIAN ROOKE; oR, shelves, on the lower of which were arrayed a few dishes and metallic utensils for cooking, ,and on the upper about .a dozen well-worn volumes.  Floor to this unique saloon there was none, except of beaten clay, which, indeed, was nearly as hard- uened with much use, as if it had been laid in the adobe itself With all its homeliness, there was an air of neatness in the room   There were curtains of simple calico to the windows, and on the little seats in front of them were bunches of wild flowers. Then, again, the floor, if only of clay, was free from litter, and the tables and dressers were as clean as hands could make them. Over the mantelpiece appeared a species of rude trophy, With a couple of rifles and a fowling-piece crossed, a bowie knife, with a -pa of pistols and a belt, pouch, and pow- der-flask; the whole crowned with a stag's horns, which made a picturevque apex to the mass. Underneath the arms were two or three pairs of spurs, on either side of an old-fashioned mir- ror, a piece of furniture rather long for its width, anid being one of the very few of her household treasures which poor Mrs. Armstrong had been able to bring in safety across the plains. The roof of the edifice projected some ten feet beyond its fagade, forming a kind of piazza, useful for shade and shelter; and it was here that I was deserted by my guide, after I had complied with his suggestion to dismount. "I'll jest take off the saddle, and put the critter in the corral," observed Mr. Railes, "while you walk in and see. the folks. 'Taint supper-time yet, but the gals 'll be on hand, and glad to see ye.", The speaker was gone before I could remonstrate, and I felt somewhat embarrassed about thrusting myself thus unintro- duced and unasked into a house which, although humble enough, was evidently not a hostelry, and whose accommodation must dlearly be of a limited description, I, therefore, paused in a momentary perplexity, which was relieved by the opening of the door. A flicker of red light from within fell on a face -and figure which I had no difficulty in recognizing as those of the "pooty gal who lived with the Armstrongs," who had been mentioned as we came by my communicative companion. "You are the gentleman Ike and Lion saw on the road . asked a full, soft contralto. "You are very welcome. Mr. Armstrong is up at the Bend, but will soon be at home for the night. Pray walk in." Which I did, nothing loath. I see her now, with her lithe yet rounded figure, and her plain stuff gown; her brow so low and sweet, and the wonderful long lashes, which swept over eyes   THE QUEST FOR FO RTUNE.       99 more wonderful still,; her straight Greek profile, her wealth of massive black hair, her radiant teeth,' her almost babyish'mouth. t could go into rhapsodies now after all these years, and after Marian RKooke has become-but we must not anticipate ; neither must we-for I hate double dealing of every kind-neither must we mislead the reader regarding the relater's connection with the more important matters of this history. Therefore, let this opportunity be embraced to explain that, although there exist reasons why he should here and there verify them by referring to his personal knowledge and experience, his individuality has little concern with them otherwise, and will not be obtruded more than may ob3 strictly conducive to clearness and authenticity. Two other women were in the room,--Mrs. Armstrong, who- greeted the stranger with homely kindness, and pretty Kitty, who received him with shy cordiality. Presently the door open- ed again, and my avant couriers were added to the assemblage. The dog walked straight up to my side, and looked steadily in ' my face with an expression of deliberate inquilry ; and on my responding with some customary indications of amity, he gave three slow and ponderous wags of his tail, and went and dropped heavily in a corner   , "He never forgits any one he's seed afore," remarked Ike, gravely, nor he couldn't if he tried. He knows all them as lives on the Bar, .and all them as ever came to it, and all them as he don't know ain't wuth knowin'." No one venturing to combat this proposition, its enunciator seated himself near his dog, and commenced a process of an or- namental character, intended to enrich some portion of his costume. He's allers quiet and good-tempered," said the old lady, in an undertone, 'cept when he talks about the plaguy gold, and then he only wants to talk a bit too much. Hie used to be wuss than he is, but I think it made him kind o' brighter, havin' the dreadful time with the Injuns on the plains. Ike fit, and fit well, but he got hurt bad, and was some time gittin' over it." "You seem to have had a narrow escape." "If there was e'er a time the Lord visibly interfered, "answer- ed Mrs. Armstrong, piously, " it was on that day. Our folks did their best, but they was well nigh spent, and we women did our best-not that I should have had strength to do anything if it hadn't been for the pluck of that eere young lady, Mary Anne, there, who's got more grit than any gal I ever see in all my born days, and kept Kitty and me up a cheerin' us, and settin' us the example of loadin' and firin' just as reglar's if she'd been a sodger."   100        MARE ROOF; OR, . "The gentleman will think me quite an Amazon," said the young lady referred to, laughing. CSo ye are, I reckon. You amazed me enough, and the In- jurS enough, and more too, that time, I'm thinking But 'twould all have been no use if it hadn't been for that chief I hated the sight of afore, and thought no better than a murderer! Jest showin' how folks takes themselves in in this world, and how slow we oughterbe a sittin' iln judgment on our fellow critters. "You know, ma," said Kitty Armstrong, coming into the light with her golden hair, and bright, bashful face, " you know  ma, that hr, Gifford said all the time that the chief would be true to us, and felt sure he'd git us out of trouble at last."' "I know, I know. But then you see the friontier boys thought Mr. Gifford knew too much 'bout books to, know much 'bout Inuns; and they was afeard he wouldn't like to fight much hisself when the time came, so that kind o' shook and wavered ' me in puttin' much trust in his idees." And he did fight artcr all!" "Like a lion! and saved that poor critter's life in the corner inter the bargain. Folks learn a good deal they never expect to when they come to cross the plains." - The huge dog here rose and stalked majestically to the door, where, turning his head on one side, he listened for a tnime with profound attention ; after which, apparently satisfied, he slowly marched back, and resumed his position in the corner. Kitty answered my inquiring look. , He heard us mention Mr. Gifford's name, and I s'pose that reminded him 'twas about time for him and the rest to be in to supper. He always knows when it's time for erm to come in."5 "He knows everythink, he does," asserted Ike, with energy. "The time to eat, and the time to drink, when to git up, and when to lie down. He knows things that pison, and he'll warn ye on 'em if you watch him. He   knows friends from foes sooner than any man does, and none on 'em can pull the wool over his eyes. He'd tell ye where all the gold is, only he thinks 'twould be bad for ye to grow too rich all of a suddint; don't ye, Lion?" The dog looked gravely at his master, and gave three thumps on the floor with his great tail. Ye see he knows every word ye say to him. What's more, he knows what ye say to each other, only he don't kear much 'bout your noticin' it, for fear 't would make ye cautious, and he likes to keep posted in all that's goin' on. Don't ye, Lion'T?' Lion gave the same response as before, but he no longer   .     .      .   .   - THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.          101 ,                   ,0 awaited further questioning, but rose promptly, and again went to the door, and listened ; and this time his rcconnoissance was mpre satisfactory, for he quickly leaped up and opened the door with the greatest ease, pushing up the latch with his paw, and giving a bark of welcome. Immnediately after, four men entered the little cabin. CHAPTER II. "'HARY we are, mother," cried Seth Armstrong, cheerily. "Here we ate, richer by five eagles than we was in the mornin'. 'Taint much, to be sure, with flour at fifty dollars a barrel, and salt pork a dollar a pound, and boots at two ounces! But it's gittin' on, and keepin' .our head above water, which is more than many poor critters are doin'just atpresent. Servant, sir, didn't see you afore ; come to stay a night with us?  That's right. We'll try and make you as comfortable as we kin, though the coyotes do haowl some and the shake-down ain't jest like the Astor H:ouse. Kitty, I hope there's something to give the gen- tleman for supper." "There's six of us men," remarked Luke, with a good-humor- ed essay at ntroduction, "six in all, by good rights, though Ike, there, allers reckons seven  Thlat's the old man, and this is me, and this here's Dr. Landale ; he's a Britisher, he is, but he's a good kind of a man for all, that, and ain't stuck up none. And that mlan  playin' with the dog, that's Hugh Gifford. As to mother and the gals, yoiu've made acquaintance your- selves." "Glad to know you, sir," quoth the doctor, " only I hope you didn't come to the Bar' on the recommendation of that busy- body, Panghutn. He's sent so many with the idea that we were shovelling out gold by the ton as to cause some disappointment. We're just paying our wav,'that's all; with a good chance every day of striking a lead that may bring us to fortune-' "Fortune!" echoed a grave voice from the corner. "Xot with one at suchl ill terms with the goddess as me, I fear." "You! Nonsense!" said the Scotchman.   "If sle were re- solved to make a, dead set against you, you'd have left your bones among the Pawnees.   You Americans are always so imp patient. You must build a house, a ship, 4 reputation, a fortune ,    JIVA        lMAlRIAN JKUUAB; 'O, in a day; you do sometimes, and what is the consequence?  Your house totters at the push of a child; your ship goes-to bits in the first gale; your reputations are bright and shining as soap bubbles, and as lasting; and your riches take wings and fly away before you learn how to spend them." "Our'n won't," said Luke, as hle seated himself at a table, and prepared to weigh the glittering dust, which he poured from a buckskin bag. "Leastways, not afore we git to divide more' eight dollars and a half a day." "I don't b'lieve in hasty got fortin' no more than you, doctor," observed Seth, approvingly, " only I don't know as?Merikins are wuss than other folks in such things. If they're lively and spry, it's 'cause they're in a new country, and they hev' to keep even or go behindhand. We air like a young colt, we air; when we git older we'll git stiddier." "Three ounces and a half and an eighth," announced Luke from his scales. "Nigher to six eagles than to five, father." "That's above the average-above the average. If we keep on, p'raps we'll ketch up to what Mr. Panghurn said we got, arter all." "Why," I inquired, "did he overstate your profits?", "Overstate? Well, I reckon he did, some. He said that we was takin' out fifty dollars a day to the man, and that the wildest dreams of Golcondy and the Ind would soon be outstrip- ped by the wealth of S. Airmstrong-." "But what could be his object. . ': You see, si; " growled the doctor, "he was just exerting one of the pet privileges of his countlrymen. Once understand that, and they'll never deceive you. Swallow all things, but tot for- getting the grains of salt. As a mountain is to a molehill, so is fifty dollars to the answer. A very simple sum in proportion, and of universal application."  - "You mustn't let Doctor Landale excite your national preju- dices, sir," uttered the sweet contralto I had first heard. "HHe has his privileges as well as our poor countrymen, and we're all afraid to offend him. You know he keeps the key of the medi- cine chest, and can always punish those who vex him. Besides, if he abuses ts to-day he will praise us to-molrrow. Why, 'twas onlf yesterday morning he was extolling the republic as warmly as the veriest Yankee in the land; and to a Yankee too." ' Miss Rooke omits to explain the animus," retorted the doc- tor, " which was that my natural pugnacity was aroused by talk of an opposite character." .  4Which means that you won't let Mr. Gifford criticize the r    THE QUEST F   UKVt ruJ nz1.N. faults of his countrymen, a practice to which you have put in a claim to a mnonopoly."^ "ts a Briton's birthright to grumble," urged the doctor, " as it is a Yankee's to brag; and it seems contrary to nature that either should seek, as Dick Railes would call it, to ' swap their privileges.'" "I guess the doctor's contrary enough," laughed Luke. "We all thought as much when he insisted on layin' out the street here, and locatin' all the corner posts, science like with his n- struments, just 'cause Dick laughed at the th'odolite" "And why shouldn't the Bar be properly laid out? Thismay be the site of a prosperous, city. Here in a few years there may be thousands of people, huge squares, flourishing trade. This spot may become famous among the merchants of the earth, who shall flock hither with the-ir silks and spices and precious stuffs, to exchange for the treasure and produce yielded by the soil. Armstrong's Bar may be the centre of a powerful nation, the seat of a great dynasty, the home of learning, the cradle of genius, the temple of the arts. It may become a Tyre, a Car- thage, a Venice   " Doctor, Doctor! Ain't that awful like Zel. Panghurn." "Well, perhaps. But the difference is, that I am only specu- lating on what may possibly be, while he is always lying about that which actually is." "I'm thinkhiy' there's about as much romance in one as t'other," said the practical Luke., "There ain't depth of water here to allow much trade. To be sure, there's rails' But folks ain't goin' to settle much on rails alone when there's big rivers enough to have ships and rails too. I guess Sacramenlty and Frisky 'll have to take the rag off the Bar; to say nuthin' of Stockton and Beneshy and Marysville." "Who lives will see," said the doctor, sententiously. ".Mean- while, let us have our supper."              ' The meal was soon smoking on the board ; rustic enough, but wholesome, abundant, and clean. Moreover, to be served by such fair hands was a novelty in those days, and as such, would have given zest to a far inferior repast. The tea was hot and strong, the bacon tolerable, the bread well made, and, although there were neither butter nor vegetables, zoe were used to those deficiencies in the mines. Every one talked and bantered and argued but Hughll Giffird - and truth impels the confession that that gentleman did not strike me on this occasion as the most . agreeable member of the little circle. When he looked at me at all--which was not often-there was sqmething like suspicion s /s   104        MARIA ROOKE; OR, in his eyes; and when he spoke to me-which was less frequent still-it was with a distance almost amounting to hauteur. How- ever, the ladies were affable, and the other men hospitable, so that I was put at my ease on the whole, in spite of Mr. Gifford's constraint ; and the doctor was disposed to makeup for the lack of conversational powers or of good humor exhibited by the New Englanider. D'ye stay long hereabouts?" the former asked; as the meal drew npar a conclusion-. !"A-I don't quite know-haven't made up my mind ; but would like to see as much of the country as I can ; the scenery, I mean, and all that sort of thing."  I hesitated because I felt a little guilty. It was evident that the party were not anxious to be disturbed in their new home. Nor was there an certainty that they would or need be. When I first met Dick Railes I had seen that he, at least, was preju- diced against new 'comers, more especially of a gold-seeking character. There was no reason why I should enter into the explanation that I was there in a sort of half-engineer, half- lawyer capacity, with a view to determine the bounds and metes of an old Spanish-Mexican grant, which, but for the discovery of the gold, might never have been heard of, but which I had good grounds- to think extended over what was called Arm- strong's Bar. There. was no reason, I repeat, to prematurely -volunteer such an explanation; but, as I answered the doctor's question, I looked up and saw Hugh Gifford's calm, inquiring eyes'fixed upon me in a manner which made me feel as if I had been guilty of a cr'ime. "There is lovely scenery to be found here, sir'- responded the doctor, in a more earnest tone than usual, "scenery which is different indeed, from ours, but which sometimes makes me feel as I used -to feel at home in Scotland. There is, it is true, no Bay of San Francisco hereabouts; no Yo-Semite cataract, no Monte Diabolo ; little of the grandeur you find along the coast range or in the great sweep of the Sierra Nevadas ; but I can show you valleys as picturesque, lakes as secluded and peaceful, livers as winding and pleasant-banked, and brooks as firolic- some as, I'll dare swear, you've ever seen elsewhere." You'll find the doctor an enthusiast about nature, sir," said the contralto; "he finds something to like in the hills and trees and flowers of this new country, if not always in its newer * inhabitants."' ".The hills and trees and flowers are not Yankees," grumbled the Scotchman, "'at least, not yet; when they bestow a few of the , , .-                 THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE         105 outlandish names on spots in this vicinity, they're so prodigal of in those more thickly settled, I dare say my admiration may cool. It's hard to keep up any enthusiasm about a Jackass Gulch, or to cherish any sweet imaginings about a Murderer s Bar. The place they call Dead Mule Canon is said to be one of the most lovely ravines in California; and I can bear witness to the beauty of Wake-up Lake; but who can preserve abiding inter- est in spots degraded by such diabolical nomenclature ? Why, the poor natives and half-breeds should put these rascals to the blush were there any shame in them, by the contrast between their own melodious and appropriate names, and the luffianly substitutes of the new-comers." I heartily coincided in the justice of the doctor's stricture, but hinted that) the solecisms lhe complained of were committed by the ignorant and thoughtless Western men, uneducated and little used to pick their expressions-the pioneers and vanguard of our civilization, who would be closely ibfollowed by others with more delicate ears and respecters of euphony, who would banish and replace by others more suitable the barbarous appellatives of their predecessors. But the doctor demurred even to this reasonable probability; he doubted it-he knew what it was to give a dog a bad name-and he believed Jackass Gulch would be Jackass Gulch to the end of the chapter. The evening passed with no greater jars than such mild con- troversies, and I found myself so much absorbed, partly by the presence of the gentler sex, and partly by interest in people so different firom most of those with whom I had lately been in con- tact, that a circumstance quite slipped from my memory, which otherwise might have gained for me a more assured welcome at the outset. It was only when Dick Railes brought in mny sad- dle bags, at a late hour, saying, he "s'posed I'd like to have 'em nigh me when I turned in," that the circumstance recurred to my mind. The postmaster of the settlement I had left in the morning had confided to my care a package of letters, apparent- ly some twenty in number, for Armstrong's Bar-and they were to be given to Seth Armstrong. .It'was not unusual, in the absence of any regular postal arrangemients, to avail in this manner of private carriage, and to intrust the delivery of the missives to the oldest or best known settler of the neighbo6r- hood where they were addressed. "A thousand pardons," I exclaimed, " for keeping back what s some of you may be anxiously expecting; but you have made my evening so agreeable as to drive all other thoughts from my mind., r      *    5*  *  .  -  . . i                       "-   The package was promptly given to Seth, who, aftelr reading the superscription with grave and evidently satisfied deliberation, broke the seals and counted over the letters :-' S. Armstrong, Mr. Seth Armstrong, Seth Armstrong, Esquire; that's me. Mrs. Colonel Seth Armstrong, postmarked Woods County, Ohio mother, that's you. Phineas Pitcher, care qfColonel Armstrong, Alrmstrong's Bar; Daniel Spike, ditto; EliphaletPike, the same; Patrick Mike, ditto Mr, Ebenezer Skinner date of Biddeford, Maine), the same ; these belongs to the boys down to the Bend. Eleanor Doolittle-that's wrong, that 'd oughter gone to Yan- kee Jim's. Senor Diego y Santiago de Alamedn, postmarked Mariposa; that's the greaser we hired to take keer of the crit- ters, and who went off on Kitty s gray mustang. What's this- Massachusetts-per Gl91den Cityy-San Francisco--Hugh Gif- ford, Esquire." The young nan held out his hand to receive his letter, and I saw a sombre shadow flit across his face as he did so. There was certainly none of the anxious yet pleased alacrity in his mannbr which people commonly exhibit on receiving letters, th'ee thousand miles from home. Hie went to his corner, and his face grew no brighter as he looked at the handwriting on the missive; but the others were too much engrossed with their own or their firiends' letters to notice his disquietude. Yet no; there were eyes besides mine fixed upon him. For as I turned away lest my gaze, as it had once or twice before to-night, should attract his attention, it fell upon the countenance of Marian Rooke. She was studying Hugh Gifford's. Her lips were slightly parted, and the color was coming and going on her- olive cheek as with one who watches for some critical contin- gency. . She sat opposite to him at some distance, and had in her lap some sort of woman's work; her hands had left it, and one, wandering up to her brow, had pushed back the mass of black hair, making the forehead look wider than before; while her elbow rested on a table by her side. I looked but for a moment or two, feeling some compunction at penetrating a mys- tery wherein I had no concern:.' But in those two moments were crowded, thus inadvertently, all manner of traces of what had gone before, all manner of prophecies of what was to come hereafter. I had already been told something of the common vicissitudes of'these people-something of the history of their mere outer lives; I had suddenly gone beyond this, and had stepped within the portal of the history of the'ir hearts.   adsl:!  AGEjlD-An. rs xs -Vi  Jvows  t % J f '            l- ClHAPTER III. I S:ALL make no further apology than has been already made or implied, for either extinguishing my personality when it be- comes necessary that I should be, in a manner, a spiritual rather than a corporeal witness of the scenes which are to follow, or re- appearing when such personality should be remembered in the few wherein I was a positive actor. The reader will be satisfied, I trust, with the assurance that my sources of information may bd in all cases implicitly relied upon; and that in every instance when I was not absolutely present ia propria persona, I spared no pains to obtain both personal and circumstantial testimony as to what occurred.- So fiar as my present agency was concerned, I was merely a dens ex mac-tti--that is to say, a Mercury-to the extent of bringing letters to Armstrong's Bar, which paved the way to my becoming more intimate there aifterwards-but I must overcome this absurd tendency to anticipate. The scene which appeared so full of significance to the ob- server was one whiich could be but of rare occurence. Mails were not frequent, and letters for small and remote settlements were often long in reaching their destination in the early mining days. Not more than twice or thrice before had letters arrived for the dwellers on Armstrong's Bart  Not more than twice or thrice, then could such a cause have risked the betrayal of a secret like that the observer saw, or thought he saw, on this oc- casion. Those Who were most interested in such a secret-if it existed-spoke of the letter next morning in a way which might well make it appear imaginary. It was early morning, and they were walking on the luxuriant virgin turf which carpeted the banks of the stream. A beauti- ful dewy morning, with spangles everywhere on the ground and no clouds in the sky, except some long, gorgeously-colored strips, which latticed the rising sun. The gold-seekers were not. yet at their daily toil, and Marian and Gifford often rose and walked thus early, before the others were even stirring. ' So you have had a letter?"  4'Yes.?^ .-, "From- -Virginia?' "From Virginia." :' She is well, I hope?" ( (   "She writes as if she were." ' And your friend, her brother, and the rest of the family' ' Quite well, he says." , She is anxious about you, of course?" "She is anxious about my prospects." "Prospects?" "Yes; of making money, to be sure." "And is that all she is anxious about?" "What else is there she should care for?" "What else? Why, your health; your thoughts; the state of your mind; the books you have read, whether by nature or man; the people you have met; the views you have seen; your recollections of the dear days which have gone by; your hopes for the future. Should she care for none of these?" "She has been taught--as I have-that all these things are sub- ordinate to the chief one. If I have health or strength, luck or cunning, such as enable me to gain gold, the rest is as nothing." I think you must wrong her; a true woman dannot be so mercenary." "No one was ever called a bigot among an assemblage of roundheads. The talk of the people about her, their every gspi- ration, their thoughts when they lie down and when they get up, by their firesides, in the market, in the very house of prayer itself, is. of money, nothing but money. If her father ialls asleep after dinner, he mumbles about stocks and prices; if a neighbor dies, he speculates on the cost of the funeral; the very atmosphere is weighed down with covetous whisperings and the echoes of hard bargains. I do not blame her." They were strolling on as they talked, and he broke little bits of twigs from the bushes, and cast them idly into the stream. "Then she knows that my life has been darkened by poverty. That there are many-not more industrious and not more clever, perhaps-who are far on'the road to success, while I am still a beggar. She knows that such little talent as I have can never buy me distinction or honor in this country, unless I can back its.-feeble stress with gold. She knows that my father was an unfortunate I gentleman and lived to be patronized by his shoe- maker, and to receive half scornful nods from his tailor." "That made him none the worse." But more unhappy. The proudest spirit breaks at last when thrust into the dust by fortune, to be trampled on for ever by the vulgar and the mean, as he was. Curse them! These minen can see the difference in the blood of their cattle and pigs-they know the distinctions between the cart-horse and the racer-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        109 they acknowledge gradations in the quality and value of unrea- soning beasts, but deliy them to the nobler beings their Maker has created in His image! And this they cll demnocracy!" "Perhaps they go too far the other way in older countries. Perhaps they are too ready to set men over each other, and ex- act honors for them which should only be paid to Him alone." "Perhaps. But what is .the idolatry they substitute here? A very Mammon's. The naked worship of the golden calf They give plenty of religious liberty otherwise. You may worship as you list, or let it alone altogether; but dare to scorn or hold in contempt this money-god-dare to refuse your hom- age to his priests, never minding how they got their benefices- dare to dissent from the thirty-nine articles in the prayer-book of Plutus, and although the tortures of the Inquisition or the fires of Smithfield may not be revived for your body, as for un- happy heretics, your social punishment and disabilities will hardly be less. Being in Rome, you must do as Romans do; you must conform or Starve."  The girl gazed thoughtfully in the stream for a moment, and answered: ' Your peculiar experience makes you unjust, I think. There are many poor men whose names will live in the nation's histo- ry; men who never had wealth or strove for it, and whomin their countrymen yet delighted to honor. I see no harmn in your try- ing honestly to amass a fortune; it is necessary to your happiness -you are sensitive, and fret under the ills, real and imaginary, which want of it entails; it may hereafter enable you to do good; why should you not, then, struggle to obtain it?" ' "Why not, indeed?" "And yet, considered singly and abstractedly, what an igno- ble incentive to exertion." "Ignoble?" "I call it so. That is, for any one capable of anything higher or nobler, and having in view the elevation of those whom he loves and who love him.  No'w, if I were a man, and had a- Virginia  "Well!" "That is, supposing Virginia to be the Virginia she would have to be for me to love her, I should feel degraded in her eyes even by the avowal-the confession that money was the principal object of my ambition. As an accessory to comfort and convenience it might "be well enough, and not to be 'de- spised. But I should not believe I truly loved-nay, more, I doubt if any one ever truly loved-when the thought of the be-   "O        MARUA ROOKE; OR, *loved object did not awaken a loftier ambition, if there were need of any at all. I should feel that to accomplish some noble action-to attach my name to some deed or cause which shou d enlighten or confer a benefit on mankinid-to aid the oppressed, or to teach truth when truth was unpopular, and its advocates had to contend against the- powerful, the scornful, and the un- willing; I should feel that to do these, or any of these, was of more worth as a trophy to 1ay at the feet of the loved one than all the gold that lies buried in the hills of California!" The girl turned and stood still in her earnestness as she spoke; her tall figure dilating, her breast heavhig, and her great black eyes flashing with enthusiasm. Something like a flush of shame mounted to Gifford's brow as he replied:  "And if your idol cared not for these offerings-held them, cheap to the more material if less romantic one?" "It should be mine to lift her to a higher sphere-to elevate her nature to a height which is possible for every human soul when rightly directed and adequately inspired-to a height where her desires would cease to be grovelling, her aspirations incapable of being mean." They walked on again, and the young man ceased to break , twigs and cast them into the stream. The girl resumed half musingly: "For why is love given in this dark world, but that its light may enable us to help each other upward and onward in the sublimest path; but that the devotion of one soul to another may endow it with the clearest, the most unerring perception as to the manner in which the beloved sp'irit may be developed to the highest excellence-to the grandest expansion of which it is capable; and, knowing the means, should continually stimulate the chosen one to their adoption?" "I fear Virginia would scarcely comprehend such thoughts as these."'. cThen you should teach her." Once moresthey wandered in silence, presently broken by Hugh: -  Perhaps one day you will teach her for me-you know we are always to be friends." ' Always. - -But does'Virginia say nothing more?" 6 Not so much as Marian has said this morning." "Marian! It was Miss Rooke last night." : Ah, there was a stranger; and' as Mrs. Armstrong persists in changing your name into one she thinks more euphonious, it was needless to advertise the discrepancy."   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       I ,     .i "Good Mrs. Armstrong; she, always would have .it 'Mary Anne,' and it was too unim'portant to correct her. The name was -familiar to her, and I suppose her ear would recognize no dis- tinction were I to have done so. The stranfige gentleman seemed interested in our little circle."  "He seemed inquisitive enough." ' Was he-disagreeably so? I did not notice it. / He struck me as educated and well'bred." "Do you think him attractive-handsome . I scarcely scrutinized him closely enough to answer as to the latter," said Marian, laughing, II but I did think him rather attractive."' Giford's brow  clouded slightly. "He is a gentleman, or something like- one, and you have been thrust among rude peo- ple of late." "But very, very kind ones, all. The Armstrongs have been like parents to me, and what could be more courteous, nay, chivalrous, in the way of demeanor to a poor 10orn damsel than that of Luke?" Again the cloaud. "Luke is at no pains to conceal his admi- ration."                   ' "Admiration! Luke!    Vhy, he feels toward me something as he does toward dear Kitty-the regard of a brother."' "And brothers in his rank of life are always bringing their sisters fragrant wild flowers, and curious bits of minerals and strange fragments of golden dust and oire-bearing quartz; and finding lovely mountain views for them, and   solemn, glassy lakes among the hills ; and  training vines which bear sweet- scented blossoms over their chamber windows!'" "No, no; these are for1 all of us; and, besides, you forget that I  am  ' the stranger within their gates.'" "Not always to remain so, perchance," To remain," said Marian, putting the most obvious con- struction upon an ambiguous speech, "until midsummer, at farthest. My friends here are very good, but I have work to do   for myself. When we first came I was ignorant as to the n  latue and extent of  the settlement; but it is clear now that I iust go to one of the towns. There are no   children to teach in the m ines.  They are to be sought among the ahrnilies of traders in the cities." "You will go forth  alone ?" Why not   ? It is my duty-should be my pleasur=-and I must earn my   bread." Y"ou are not fit for such -a liW . You have not been trained   to it. You will find its drudgery irksome, if not insupport- able." "I do not fear it. I believe we are so constituted that we can accomplish almost anything, however foreign or repugnant at first sight it may appear-anything which is undertaken with a firm heart and a resolute purpose. I am grateful to these worthy people, but, except for their love and kindness, do not mean to be under obligations to thenm. I shall go in July." "And I, I think, before that."  You?" "I am impatient-feverish. The beggarly gains to be gleaned on the Bar may answer for the others-not for me. Nor is there any necessity they should. The newspapers may contain exaggerations, but it is certain that great discoveries are being made all over the country. The gold-lists of the mail-steamers tell a story not invented by the scribblers. What others do, I can do." "There is a chance at any moment of striking vast deposits here as well as elsewhere." "A chance, yes. But we have been here several months and the yield has been most nigga-dly-less than the average at any of the surface-diggings we have accounts of It was thought, firom the situation of the river, and its having its rise so close by in the mountains, that this spot would prove one of the most productive; but it has turned out the reverse. The Armstrongs seem disposed to remain, but that need not control my course. Our arrangement of partnership is terminable any week, and that which satisfies them does not satisfy me." "The rolling stone- " "Is just the one which does gather moss in. gold countries. It is vain to waste time in places where careful search is unre- munerative. I believe the true policy to be that of moving from point to point with all convenient speed, so that, each fail- ing successively, another experiment may at once be tried. Ul- timately the lucky discovery must be made,'and fortune be the result., ' And, with fortune, happiness?"  "Alas who knows?" f   THE QUEST rO  FORTE.         113 CHTAPTER IV. THE party were at breakfast, when a growl from Lion, fol- lowed by the swift patter of a horse's hoofs, told that a stranger was approaching. ' Somebody from the Bend, may be," sug-  gested Seth Armnstrong, " come over for their letters."  But his helpmate, looking out of window, negatived this supposition. You could tell miners, indeed, from afar off, their almost invari- able dress being such as was worn by our fr'iends at Armstrong's Bar. A red flannel shirt, belt, trousers thrust in strong, coarse boots rising above the knee, and a wide-brimmed, felt sombrero, constituted their uniform, which was recognizable from a greater distance than was commanded on the winding road from the windows of the cabin. "' Taint no miner,' said Luke, as he-thrust his curly head into the aperture next to his mothers; ' 'taint no miner, in a dress coat and a stove-pipe hat! Darn my skin," he exclaimed with sud- den interest, " if it ain't that Panghurn come back 'a-in!'" "Shobw!" said Seth, "I thought wre'd seed the last of him for a spell; them lies o' his'n in the ' Mounting Clarion' ought to have kept him off the Bar a month o' Sundays." I-"How little," quoth the doctor, "do you appreciate the Pang- burn turn of mind; or you might know that nothing short of a. pestilence would keep him away from  a place where he wasn't wanted."           ; 'S'posin' we set Lion on him," suggested Ah. Railes, "and then he daresn't git off his hoss!" "No, no," said Seth, promptly, 'that won't do; give the critter a air show now he is here; only, doctor, 'praps if you or Mr. Gifford was jest to hint that we felt a little riled about the way he advertised the Bar, it might make him kearful another time." "'Never fear, Uncle Seth," said the doctor, "but that we will administer proper admonition. Not but that the hide of an alli- gator is less likely to be proof against such pursuasions than that of Zelotes; yet, as a. matter of duty, we will try the ex- periment." The subjectl of these complimentary allusions Was now at the door, and Ike being sent totake charge of lhis horse, he speedily made his way into the apartment.    "4        MARIAN ROOKE; OR           ' Mr. Panghurn was about six feet in height, and was alTayed in a seedy black dress coat and trousers, the latter stuck into a pahi of huge Wellington boots, ornamented with red morocco tops. He swoie a high siM't collar, extremely grimy, and en- Sl'cled by a faded pmI and yellow muslin cravat. On his head - as a tall black beaver hat, and on his hands eormous buckskin gloves. His hahir, beard, face, eyes, and teeth, seemed all of one color, namely a dirty whitish brown , and the latter projected in a manner highly suggestive of the species called the rodentia. Of beard, indeed, there was little, except on the end of the chin where it Localized in a pointed, bristly tuft. Mr. Pang- burn's inability to quite cover his teeth with his lips gave a not otherwise prepossessing countenance a sardonic expression fear- ful to behold; and his habit of shutting one eye in conversation as he launched bforth his sentences, completed the more salient attractionsof his physiognomy. Such was the remarkable figure which now made its way into the little house of the Arm- strongs, "How air you, Kernul Armstrongf and ladies, and how air you, boys and strangers! Glad to see ye. Here's twenty copies of the last Clarion, 'nuff to go all round the settlement never mind about pay, jest as good or an advertisement. Thank you, mum, don't kear if I do, hain't liquored since I left the Cascades. Just so; much obleeged, and news there ain't none, for the last steamer had to put into Acapulco short of coal, where the capting, in a fit of delirium tremens, jumped overboard and cut his throat. That's all sence Toosday, 'xcept Sacramenty's burnt down Sunday night, fire lightin in Bella Union, gam- blers got fightin', spilt the ile, spirit lamps, run through carpet roof into prayer-meetin' below, hull town built up agin next mornin' with cotton-duck; i Kernul, I'm a lookin' at yer!" This speech, delivered in a high key and precisely as the speaker would have addressed a public meeting, was emphasized with innumerable winks, and succeeded by what appeared to be a highly sarcastic leer, which, commencing with the Kernul, swept around until it included the entire company , "Mr. Panghurn,' commenced Dr. Landale, w becoming the approaching accents of reproof, "I puted to name to you that we; who live onr the quite satisfied with the account you gave of us and it last month, in your enterprising journal, and---"  "Knew yonu weren't, knew you weren't," interrupted Mr. Panghurn, derisively; "knew darned well youL'd have your dander up about that. Couldn't help it-thtee new placers, -rich   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        115 diggins', broke out on Coyote Creek and Kettletas Run-public attention to be directed to twenty other places, so's to keep the rush from them-Armstrong's Bar one of the twenty; two slugs and hundred copies of the Clarion-business you know-in- crease the circhiation." "Do you mean to say you publish false statements to the effect that gold is plenty where it is scarce, to distract the atten- tion friom those where miners could really find it?" "False statements!" echoed Zelotes, grinning with irony. "The Mounting Clarion is true, sir, as the needle to the pole, to them immutable principles of public weal and commercial rectitood, whereon it fust took its proud stand, and mocked the embattled world! That's so. A story, sir, may kinder git the color, as the diggers say, without bein' stuck together out of hull cloth. I allowed I had a high opinion of Armstrong's Bar; my sentiments is unchanged and unalterable. Folks oughtn't to find fault with the lofty sperits chained to the oar of journal- ism-- onlightenih' and a rushin' forfrad the uangratefal masses until they know the hull truth-until they're kind o' sot face to face with the paower behind the throne!" 'Well, sir," said the Doctor, impatiently, "being in that juxtaposition, I now tell you that what you published, besides being untrue in point of fact, was seriously prejudicial, both to the interest and the convenience of this little community." "Pettikilarise, pettikilarise; state theitems, state the items!" "You deeclared that the dioggins on tlae Bar wereo turning out among the richest in the country ; and in conifirmation of this singular fable, you added that the settlers were taking out at the rate of fifty dollars a day to the man.1" "Jest so, jest so,' replied Mr. Panghurn, running his fingers through his lank hair; ' them air the facts.) "Then how can you justify them?" "Justify 'erm? I glory in 'cm. Measured by'a narrer prin- ciple of temporary expediency, they may seem vain and illoosive to the short-sighted and rash; they may illicit condemnation from the hasty and censorious; but what care I? ' Truth crushed to airth will rise again, The cternal years of God are her'n; But error, woundedl, writhes in pain, And dies amid her worshipper'n.' That ere is the proud predicament of yours respectfully, Z. Panghurn." "Your argument may be forcible, sir; but I fail to see its application to the practice of spreading false intelligence."   "6         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, 'You ain't heerd me out. Hear, and then condemn me if you kin. I said my opinions was unchangcda and I adhere to my primary assertion. I stick to it like deatlh to a dead nigger. I said the Bar was a pooty place, and it is a pooty place. I said there was rich digin's on the Bar, and I b'lieve that there air. What I said about the exact amounts that was took Out, I allow savored 'of hyperbole. It was a festive vision of the happy futur', perhaps, rather than a cold recital of the livin' present. But I'm reqdy to back my opinions, I am, even on that pint. I b'lieve in 'em, and I'm ready to stand or perish with 'em. What I propose, Kernul and gentlemen is a jint-stock company-yes;" and the speaker, rising with his theme, glared about with a smile of fiendish sarcasm, "yes!" lifting his voice to a nasal yell. "A jint-stock company to unkiver and develop the hid- den treasures of Armstrong's Bar!" "Hooray!" screamed Ike, from the corner, quite excited by this oratorical outhurst, while Lion chimed in with a greivous howl. "I know'd," pursued the orator, availing himself of the general stupefaction which succeeded these demonstrations, and his own proposal to enforce its advantages; "-I know'd when the Mounting Clarion spread its glad tidings upon the air-the tidin's my honorable friend here hists his dander at-that its editor would be blamed, and its sources of information scouted as un- worthy of credick; and I was prepared to tote round the load of temperary ignermiiny which them tidin's Would cost and in- volve. But Panghurn looked to the future like true nobility, and found his blazon in posterity. That's so. He saw that when he should come on the Bar, asi he has come among ye this day, and after explainin' the motives which actooated his course, should offer to ratify his sentiments, touchin' the riches of the location, by puttin' down his own dimes, and goin' in with ye on the jint-stock principle, that yer prejudices agen him would van- ish like a vapor wreath that dims the summer moon-that he would no longer be regarded among ye as Panght rn yer tra- doocer, but as Panghurn yer benefactor! True, I give the Bar a good name when aperiently it didfi't deserve it. Why? It answered my purpose in two ways. It directed the squatter interest on to the spot, and when it come, it was disappointed. Now it's got a bad name, and when the gold is found, if all the papers from Oregon to Mariposy was to blow their horns they couldn't'undo the work of the Mounting Clarion! That air's my statesmanship, that is, and after I've chucked in a few o' them buckwheats, I'll explain to ye at hull length what I think the          .    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        117 gold is a hidin' and how I come to think so. And if I ain't as much mistaken ss the man who lost his shiht, fortin' awaits us; fortin' on a big scale, the hull hog and no discount; and then Hail Columby and the Atlantic States, happy return of Z. Pang- burn to love and Utiky I5 The speaker here concluded his harangue, and after once again showing his teeth to the company, in a manner at once thieaten- ing and scornful, he employed them with characteristic vigor upon the viands before him. It is- true that most of his hearers were disposed to regard Mr. Panghurn's views with a suspicious rather than a sanguine eye. But it must be remembered that this was a time when glowing anticipations, such as his' were often more than realized. Many were the instances in those early clays of men landing pen- niless at San Francisco, and becoming within three months tho possessors of thousands. Many were the cases of people who never in their lives possessed a hundred dollars, until they scraped together all possible resources to buy their passage-tickets, accu- mullating even in less time what to them were princely fortunes. There were not wanting examples where cdiggings, like those at Armstrong's Bar, had been abandoned as unprofitable, and sub- sequent adventurers, more lucky than the first, had stumbled on the treasure and grown rich upon the wealth which their prede- cessors had left undiscovered. It was by no means incredible, then, that sucht an example might be repeated on this very spot or in its immediate vicinity; and although a man's discretion as well as his candor might be doubted when, by inducing many to come where few had explored before, lie atug'mented the chances of a discovery which it was his professed interest to avoid; yet he might be knowing to circumstances which made discovery next to impossible, and might easily be forgiven for seeking to give the settlers so strong an evidence that they were unlikely to effect it as would lead them to put a just value on his own agency, which could supply the clue. It was not, therefore; remarkable that those who had so sharply stigmatizedtheir flowery visitant an hour before, and who even now accorded him but a grudging confidence, were yet not un- willing to consider his proposals and to investigate his grounds for auguring success. There could be small harm in hearing what hle had to say, even if nothing came of it. They would, in such a case, be no worse off than at present, and there Was a chance, on the other hand, of the happiest results. It was soon agreed, therefore, between Seth, the Doctor, and Gifford, who retired as a Committee of Consultation pending the devastating   "8         MARIAN ROOKE ; OR onslaught of Zelotes upon their provender, that that worthy should have full opportunity to make good his words, and if -ie would, to share in the: profit he anticipated. They all came there for gold; and, provided they got it, there would have been little objection, on most parts, to 3Iephistopheles himself as a stockholder in the company.            / "The long and short of the matter is," observed the Doctor, "that the fellow is an unprincipled rascal; but if he is cunning enough to teach us something we don't know, we needn't stand in our own light." "I hardly know what to think on't," said Seth, thoughtfully; "I don't see why a chap who's only been on the Bar once afore is like to know more 'bout it than men who've been diggin' round goin' on six months." "After all," suggested Hugh, "what harm   can he do? What we, make now can scarcely excite his cupidity, that he should wish to share it on the same termns-hard labor and small profit. Let him point out his wonderful secret. If he trifles with us, we can warn him off the Bar, and so be rid of him al- together." With this understanding the conference ended, and it was forthwith announced to Mr. Panghurn that the party were will- ing to tolerate' his presence and to listen to his explanations. That gentleman, however, having stimulated the curiosity and raised the expectation of his hosts to the highest possible pitch, was now disposed to secure his own interests in the pending bar- gain., He represented, with a show of reason which could not be gainsaid, that, if by his instructions the yield of gold should increase largely on the Bar, it was but fair that he should sharei in the advantage thereof; and as the others were collectively indebted to him in such a case for their augmented emolument, they should be willing to allow him a liberal percentage. There were two other parties in the immediate neighborhood who man- aged their affairs much in the same way with that pursued at Seth Armstrong's' that is to say, thie bands wNorkled in concert, and divided regularly all that they gained. Over these l'aiud Armstrong's party had, of course, no control; for although the spot had received the name of the first comer, by common con- sent, he had no legal or prospective sway over their actions. A friendly feeling existed, especially as some of the men had been of the party in crossing the plains; but beyond this, and with the exception of coming thither for supplies and occasional letters, there was no particular intercourse withy nor were these men in any sense amenable to, those at the immediate Bar. Mr. Pang-   TiE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        119 burn was, of course, perfectly aware that, failing negotiations with the latter, he could easily open fresh ones with the others, and he calculated that thllis knowledge-vould have its effect in producing an acquiescent disposition on the part of his present hosts. All he wanted, he assured thlem, was what was fair. He always looked out for number one, he did, but he didn't go in for no chizzlin'. He allowed he ought to git pooty fair pay for his time, and the "Mounting Clarion" might suffer some when he was away. Those fellers over to the Bend would give half the profits to anybody who'd put them on such a lay, they would. But he went fur for friiendship, he did. He always stuck by his friends through thick and thin; and he liked iMr. Armstrong and the others very much. Ait. A. was an Amurikin of the sort he liked; he was his kind, he Was. Give him a man that was not passion's slave, and he would wear him ir- his heart of hearts, as he did Seth; also the Doctor and Mr. Gifford, either of whom he would be pleased to have contribute to the "Clarion." Did they see the pome in the last number-"Haowl on, ye base and hireling crelw "? They'd find it was kind of gritty; being an effusion of lis own, suggested by hearing the coyotes bullyraggin' round the ' Clarion" office at night, and remindin' him of the legislatur' at Sacramenty last winter, when they refused to vote for Panghurn for State printer. Somethin' in that way would be always acceptable, 'specially as they were likely to be pard's  when this 'ere bargain was struck and brought to a conclusion In the mean time, he reckoned that about twenty-five per cent. on the excess of what they might git through his advice, over and above the former average, would make 'em square. The others demurired to this proposition. Mr. Panghurn might know a lead that they were ignorant of; but .they were likely, at any day, at any hour, to strike it. Gold-digging and washing were very hard work, and their plan was share and share alike. The democratic principle was surely most applica- ble to a species of labor where, without merit or demerit on the part of any individual, without either industry or indolence, he might get nothing by a day's work, and his neighbor a hundred dollars or more. They always divided even, at the Bend, at Yankee Jim's, and at every other place they knew of. It didn't work well to change the rule, and they had better not try it. Besides, Mr. Panghurn would frequently be obliged to leave them, and thus the company would lose the advantage of his services, a consideration not to be forgotten in estimating their general value. Thus far the Doctor as spokesman for the Bar. Zelotes-had heerd his honorable friend with minglin' emo-   120        HMA  NA ROOKE; OR, tions. He was surprised to hear the help he was about to be- stow, coming, as he was, to lead 'em on to fortin' and to fame, should be so far disparaged as to be only counted as the ordi- nary toil of an ordinary man. As for the Bend and Yankee Jim's, they was the Bend and Yankee Jim's. What he was a contemplatin' of now was to serve his friends at Armstrong's Bar. When they allowed they didn't want the arm or Voice of Panghurn, it vzould be time enough to think of other folks who might. He thanked 'em firom the, recesses of his inmost soul for their solicitood touchin' the interests of freedom's bahner, the ' Mounting Clarion." It was nateral that they, sons of liberty as they was, should feel anxious about the prospects of her fa- vorite organ; and when he told themn that he had arranged that those prospects should be attended to in his absence, he lknew they could be happy. When he mentioned the name of Eli S. Barlow as that of the distinguished scholar he had engaged to supplement the labors of Panghurn, and ile the machine in his absence, they would feel satisfied that all was well. He was the partner of their toils, their feelings, and their fame, he was; and twenty per cent. on the gross receipts was what he would take, and ne'er a cent less. An agreement was finally effected upon the last-named basis; a prudential clause being inserted, that under no circumstances was the division to be made when it would leave to the original settlers a daily stipend inferior to the average they had been re- ceiving. This precaution would, at all' events, prevent any in-  jury to established rights from resulting as a consequence of the innovation; while it placed the new comer in a position which would oblige him to increase the general wealth, or, as an alter- native, to entirely waste his time. Such was the treaty which, being pronounced to be fair to all parties, now received the gen- eral acquiesence and solemn ratification. / CHAPTER V. MR. PANGBTuRN was a person by no means without sagacity. Acuteness of a certain kind constituted, indeed, the leading char- acteristic of his mind. Of education, in the usual sense of the term, he had little or none He had been sent to a district school for the winter months during several years of his boyhood ; those   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        121 of the summer having been engrossed by hard work on his uncle's farm. But the snowy intervals, which were supposed by that thrifty yeoman to be devoted to learning, were, on the con- trary, chiefly employed in speculations of a mercantile character, whereby his schoolfellows were the sufferers, and in the manu- facture of sleds, shipping and other market-able commodities, to the fashioning of which Zelotes brought much zeal, and no little ingenuity. To do him justice, he was never indolent; and al- though what he called "hooking Jack" caused him to grow up awfully deficient in even the simpler branches of a country boy's education, more especially in spelling and grammar, he had at eighteen already amassed a small capital, and knew more of the little world about him than any of his by no means artless con- temporaries. To get at the key-note of Mr. Panghurn's nature, you had only to keep one thing steadily in view, which was, that the acquisi- tion of money was never for an instant absent firom his mind. Wherever he went, with whomsoever he talked, this important matter was always uppermost there, and no larger subject, no higher thought, was by any chance permitted to thrust it aside. If lhe ever thought of the ocean, it was with regret that it should be so unnecessarily extensive, and that the utmost ingenuity or industry of man could only be expected to wrest from it a cer- tain limited quantity of " made land." If his reflections ever touched upon the sun, moon, and stars, they were min gled with regret that physical obstacles prevented those luminaries from being chopped up into quarter sections, or staked off in claims. He had, it is true, at his tongue's end, plenty of the current slang about matters as spacious as liberty, national glory, the freedom  of the press, and the destiny of his country; but he meant no more by them than is meant by the perpetual beating of the gong during a Chinese play; they were the conventional and duly expected accompaniments of the drama of his daily life, his exits and his entrances, his dialogue and his " business." They had no true relation to either, but the audience expected them as a matter of course, and as a matter of course the audi- ence got theme. Now, although Mr. Panghurn may not appear from   this de- scription to have been eminently fitted for the character of a public instructor, it is certain that the "Mountain Clarion," as blown by him, was heard afar off, and often with considerable effect. - He was too cunning not to be aware of his own deft- ciencies, where they 'we,' likely to affect his pocket; and al- though he could not conveniently spell himself, he always man- 6   aged to have a sub-editor and a compositor who could. Gener- ally speaking, one person united the two offices, although, since the advent of Eli S. Barlow, this economical expedient had been disused. The "Clarion " had been blowing only a few months at the time when our history commenced; but it had, as I have said, not been unheard. Zelotes perceived, with early intuition that, where a population was increasing with such unexampled rapidity, where gold was being ravished from the earth ill such unheard of profusion, there must speedily arise conflicts of m- terests and struggles of parties which would cause a printed ad- vocate to become valuable. He possessed himself of one of the  first printing-presses which had been brought into the country,  a battered and ancient engine which had doubled Cape Horn,   ! after seeing the life and death of more than one country news- ! paper in little New England towns. But it was a wonder when  it first appeared among the diggings, and its sway and name  grew great in mouths of wisest censure.  Mr. Panghurn employed his Organ, as he somewhat incor-   l reetlytermed the "Clarion," with great assiduity for the further-  ance of what was stereotyped over the leading article as "The Interests and Prospects of this Great; Free, and Prosperous Communitv," and in his own breast as the Interests and Pros- pects of his cherished pocket; When he could get black mail from claim-owners, town-projectors, or political aspirants, he took it, and the "Clarion " burst into a glad song of praise, and warbled in cadences of unmingled eulogy When he was dis- appointed, through the obstinacy or stupidity of such specula- tors, the Clarion " gave vent to solemn denunciation, or, in the way of variety, ran up and down the gamut of coarse Vitupera-  tion. The Organ, however, was costly, wages and material be- ing enormously high; the subscribers, being chiefly of a migra-  tory character, were often oblivious of their obligations; and  finally, there were considerations of a personal nature which made it wise for the proprietor to absent himself as much as possible from the office. He had therefore taken to riding through the country with a view to augment his subscription  v list, to solict advertisements, and, as he averred, ",to take a hand in wherever he see a chance to make somethink." In this speculative framehe had first visited Armnstrongs Bar ; and having to this extent outlined his pursuits and character, I may proceed to describe the iumerdiate motives which led Mr. Panghurn to believe that he could make this quiet spot the scene of a fesh golden triumph. Although utterly without philosoph- ical lore of a profound character, no man was quicker than this  ,   'j.'l. UiblD!. Jl VJ lM .t i'.ltlql Jl. ,  . . man in grasping the theory of physical phenomena, which he could make subsidiary to money-getting.  He knew, as he often declared, as well as any one, that water would run down hill. To the careful consideration ef so simple a commonplace as this, with the cognate incidents which it, like the vater, always car- ries in its bosom, many a great fortune has since been' due. Whenever Mr. Panghurn struck running  water in this land of gold, he immediately began to examine and peer about the ad- jacent country, in order to satisfy himself as to whether it had always been flowing in its present channel. There was no par- ticular novelty in this idea:' Dr. Landlalc had thought of it when he first came on the Bar. But the difference was-that the Doc- tor, with all his scientific know ledge, had failed ,to ht on a fact I  that Zelotes, with nothing but his insatiate thirst for gold, had detected. The little river which ran by the door of our adven- turers had indeed long, long before forsaken the old track throulgh which, it had struggled to get toward the sea. The neighboring country was greatly diversified, and scored here and there with rifts, ancd gullies, and deep ravines. By one of those accidents. of heavy fireshet, or volcanic eruption, or crumbling soil, which ofttimes produce such mutations, the bed of the stream had been changed. Between Armstrong's Bar and the place which has been allud- ed to as "4 the Bend," the inequalities of the surface were most rugged and bold; and this was the case for a mile or more towards the interior. The curve of the stream between the two settlements was elliptical in shape, and very long; to that degree that, while the distance between them by water could not have been less than six or seven miles- it was less than a third of that space across the country. Now the water had found its way lort ages before firom one point to the other in nearly a strailght line; and only had recourse to its present devious path when, through the unknown cause referred to, it could adopt no other l: The old bed, then, lay between the Bar and the Bend, and de- flected towards the present one about a mile belbw the former; and this was what the astuite Mr. Panghurn had discovered. The cabin of the Armstrong's was almost immediately on the bank of the river, and not more than a mile, perhaps, from its ancient channel. But such was the broken character of the intervening country, that no horse could traverse it, and a man would find it extremely difficult. To get to the place, then, from the Bar, it was necessary to go down the stream for about a mile and then make one's'way up again, in a direction far to the right of that which has just been described. This, after   profound cogitation, Mr. Panghurn had done. He had gone in the saddle as far as he could penetrate. -Ie had then dismounted, encouraged by the signs he found about him, and made his way onwards after securing his horse to a tree. His path was by no  means an easy one, for it crossed at almost every turn with thickets and thorns, and huge firagments of rock, and impene- trable chcqarral. Still, he was more and more sanguine of the correctness of his supposition as -he got furtlher. Finally, he came to a dark, narrow gorge, which seemed absolutely impass- able, and which could neither be avoided nor taken in flank. The soil under his feet was gravelly and uneven, and he slipped at almost every step, but he had struggled manfully on until this : last obstacle became manifestly insuperable. , At that moment,  his eyes getting used to the twilight, the heart of Zelotes leaped e to his mouth and his skinny frame thrilled with joy; for therein  front of him, piercing the gloom of the deep ratvine, and in spite  of the intervening brush, lhe saw on the ground a tender sparklle,  which made his spirit exult as it never exulted before. It was a ! fragment-tiny indeed, but still a frilgment-of virgin gold.   [ When the editor of the "Clarion' left the ravine, his sadcdle-  bags were stuffed with earth hle had scraped from its bottom. And the first result of the careful washing of that earth at the earliest favorable opporunitywas a good ounce and a half of the precious metal. The second, as we have seen, was that of lead- ing him to return very soon to the Bar, and to make that pro- posal to its denizens which has been already described. It is improbable that owe discoverer would have brought him- self to admit others to share his counsels and his profits but for t ' a necessity which could hot be avoided. ie had with great la- 1 bor and pains brought away enough of the precious soil on which I to try a conclusive-experiment. This had involved time as well  as labor, which were to be added to the chances of detection  when any wayfarer might step in to anticipate or divide his gains. f To turn his discovery to the best advantage, it would be neces-  sary to convey water to the spot; not in slender driblets, but   in a copious and a continuous stream. Such a supply could only , be obtained firom the river, and must be brought thence by some mechanical contrivance. There were no quartz mills in those   : days, and although mercury was often used to separate gold    r from dross, the method most in vogue was the simplest; that is. ; to say, the method of placing the auriferous soil in any hollow vessel and adding water; after which, by shaking, stirring, or  rocking, the greater specific grav/ity of the gold would cause it  to &drop to the bottom, and the remainder of the mixture being , %.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        125 poured away, its most valuable ingredient would remain as a precipitate. Water must be carried from the river; and to carry out this necessity the aid of those on the Bar became indispen- sable. Having unfolded thus much to his new friends, who listened with the gravest interest and attention, and having exlhibited the gold hle had procurod in the canon by way of confirmation, Mr. Panghurn properly observed that the first thing to be done was to devise means for the transport of the first essential to success-the water of the river. This opportunity for the exer- cise of his abilities as engineer of the comlpany, put the Doctor in high spirits. "What's the difference in levelS?" he inquired, briskly. "I dunno. How should I? I reckon, the', it must be higher 'n this, else what would the water run here for?" "That doesn't follow. It would be very unfortunate if it did. The streanm mnight have been been diverted by an obstacle, which had no necessary connection with the land it ran over al/t'rwards Its true that the tendency of a disused channel is to fill -up, as it is that of one in use to deepen; but we can determine noth- ing until we know the real difference of level."  Well, how are ye goin' to git at it " 'i Easily enougl, with a little time and patience; it will take more to build an aqueduct." "%Yo call that aflumie, wocdo." "Call it what you like, it's the same thing. But before we go to the expense of such a work, we'd best test the place a little further.       , All agreed as to the expediency of such a precaution, Mr. Panghurn being so satisfied with the prospect as to make no ob- jection. A party was accordingly sent off under his guardian- ship, and, after three hours' absence, returned with a consider- able quantity of the soil, taken out as lie directed. The result showed that his sagacity was not at fault; for, firom a quantity of earth about three times as great as he had first practised upon, they succeeded in obtaining nearly five ounces of gold-dust. In the nmean time the Doctor had contrived to manufacture a couple of rods with sliding disks, and his theodolite being in tolerable adjustment, had comumeinced, with the help of Luke Armstrong and -myself; to run a line of levels from the river to the new placer. It was evening w1hen this labor was concluded, but the result was tolerably satisfactory ; the surface ofthe water having been found to be some fifteen"'feet higher than that of the ground whence the earth had been taken. A :consultation was  -      g   126        MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, held that night after supper, and it was, resolved to transfer the scene of their daily toils to these newer and richer diggings. If, after a week, appearances continued encouraging, the colm- pany would go to the -great expense of bringingl boards from the nearest saw-mill for the construction of a flume. For hewn timber they must rely on their own exertions; and as Dick Railes promised to see to that part of the work, just confidence was reposed that it would be thoroughly performed. It was considered that the water would necessarily fall very much as the dry season advanced, and this suggested the building of a sort of reservoir which should be supplied by force-pumps; an expedient which would enable water to be delivered at the new diggings, even when thelstream should fall, if possible, to be as low as the level of the canion itself.  At the end of the week the party had taken out nearly sixty ounces of gold, a result which was voted to warrant the expense and labor of the flume. Accordingly the materials were con- tracted for; a proceeding of itself attended with some diiliculty, since the experience of the last season had put the miners on their guard about providing for water in the dry solstice, and these structures were being put up all over the country, causing a great scarcity of the timber whereof alone they could be made. The combination of pluck, science, steadiness, and cunning, which was now at work on Armstrong's Bar was well calculated to overcome this or much greater impediments to success. In a fortnight more the flume was built and in operation. The fame of these operations, of course, was bruited abroad, and although the "Mounting Clarion n" week after week continued to declare in the most unblushing manner that the diggers on the Bar were not making their salt, and that what had been discovered there had proved to be onlyinferior and scanty'surface stuff, it could not deter some greedy adventurers, who would see for them- selves, and who put no faith in "Clarions,' from settling in the neighborhood. The original company, on the other hland, had staked out claims as extensive as the laws then allowed; and they possessed a vast advantage in the-ir flume, which had cost the labor ahld capital of many to complete. Sonme time passed before another was attempted, and in the interval the gains of the company were steadily increasing. It became evident, even to the least sanguine, that a few months of such prosperity as they now enjoyed would make them all rich. Some who came to California wandered from point to point, setting lup their tents now in one place, now in another, and departing fiorom each as penniless as when they arrived. Some had tried a dozen ex- /   W   ,THE QUEST FOR FORTUE.         127 periments before finding what they called a paying location; and some unlucky ones never found such a location at all. The party at Armustrong's Batr were more fort. nate. They had paid their Way even in the worst of times; they had not been lured to abandon the spot of their first election'by glittering fables of others more prolific; and they seemed to be reaping the reward of their fidelity, in wealth which was now pouring into their coffers with swift and bewilderimng reality. CHAPTERl VI. "A HUNDRED ipounds of pure gold! It looks pooty, don't it? The speaker was Mr. Panghurn, and it was a Saturday night, about two months after that gentleman's association with the party at Armstrong's Bar. It was their custom on Saturday nigrhts to add up the gains of the past week, and then to place them with the general store for safe-keeping. In the absence of an iron safe, a deep hole had been sunk in a corner of the cabin, which, with the aid of adobe, some flat stones, and a' heavy wooden lid, or cover, provided with hinges and a ring, consti- tuted a sort of treasure-vault. In this receptacle there reposed, during the rest' of the week, a strong iron-bound box, secured by two padlocks, about two feet in length ,by one in height and breadth. On Saturday nights this box, being unearthed, was put where it now stood, on the table in the middle of the room, to receive the fruits of the week's toil, and the admiring saluta- tions of its collective owners. There it stood, wide open, with various little bags of nuggets, and some curious specimens of crystals and quartz-bearing gold, arranged about its sides; but in the middle was a smaller box of tin, also furnished with a padlock, and also open; and in this inner sanctuary was the pile which feasted the loving eyes of Mr. Panghurn. Gold was there in all shapes and many sizes; molten lumps which showed the action of fire, and rounded lumps which told of that of water.  Large pieces of the size of a pigeon's egg, and tiny spangles scarcely bigger than the point 'of a pin. Queer-shaped bits, here and there, which fascinated the eye by grotesque resemblance to people's heads and legs; regular bits now  and again, like coins and ornaments, which you would   1J   .      KAMAAN UUvK- X WIC scarcely believe had not been fashioned by human hand5 Variety, too, in color as well as in form, was there. Warm- looking gold, with the reddish tinge of copper; pale-looking, delicate gold, having some admixture of silver, with various in- termediate shades between. A good deal of the precious earth was in the box ; and it lay in little irregular heaps, with mnioun- tains and valleys, and bright yellow plains and dark purple ra- vines breaking and diversifying its surface. The light fell from the chandelier, which was made of a hoop, and which hung firom the roof, and the company were seated close to the table, with all the'ir eyes riveted on the glittering heap in its centre. Mr. Panghurn had insinuated himself rather nearer than either of thile others, and was toying at the treasure with his great coarse fingers, as if the sense of touch as well as that of sight gave him an exquisite pleasure; and, while he enjoyed himself with so undissembled a satisfaction, the Doctor, who sat opposite, seemed to be watching his hands with a flinty suspi- cion in his hard Scotch face that he was scarcely at pains to con- ceal. Perhaps he might have thought Mr. Panghurn capable of putting pitch upon his fingers, in anticipation of such an oppor- tunity; and yet the surmise would have been unreasonable, since it was not difficult, if any one were so disposed, to'overreach the others in the daily routine of work, by adroit. processes of with- holding and concealing ; and, to do him justice, no one had ever seen a trace of such a disposition on the part of Mr. Panghurn. "It's dreadful pooty stuff, ain't it?" repeated he, gloating over it with his hyena-like grin. ' Twice as much as there is there 'd-put up a hull stone-front block in Utiky." ' And would that be so desirable an investment?"' queried the Doctor. "It would that. You'd only put down 'bout half cost, bor- row the rest on bond and mortgage at six pei cent., git fifteen for the rent o' the stores, hev Tricopherous Hall or somethin' overhead for nigger singers and temperance meetin's, fifty dol- larsa night, and church on Sundays; rum on storage down cel- lar-double your money in five year.'" ' Oh," said the Doctor, apparently satisfied, ' and that's your idea of laying out your ' pile, when you make it?" "Yes,' replied Zelotes, 'that's my idee. I might hev an , organ," he added, thoughtfully.; " when a man's onct had an or- gan he don't kind o' like to give up his holt on the public mind; it might be in Syracuse and it might be in Schenectady ; but the stone-front block in Utiky 'd be my first idee. What's your'n?" "A cottage on the Clyde," half-sighed, half-mused the Doc-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        129 tor, a softer light coming over his hard features, "with many friends, and few patients; with plenty of instruments, and time to use them; with a pretty view, and enough to feel easy, with- out being rich.' "That wouldn't bring ye-in no twelve per cent." "No ; but it would bring in something of more worth-con- tent." A sarcastic smile played across the lineaments of Mr. Pang- burn. "We don't kear nuthin' 'bout content, we don't, until there ain't nuthin' else to git. Our motto is uppards and on- nards. We air like Alexander, we air, and would shed tears as fast as the Arabian trees if there weren't'no more worlds to con- quer. The stream with 'a more sure resistless tendency seeks not the ocean than a Yank the next gitable dollar." "I believe you," quoth the Doctor. 'Well, Seth, you've heard two aspirations ; let's hear yours-let's hear the ambition of the oldest of us-of him who gave a name to thesettlement." "Why," said Uncle Seth, "I never tho't on't, honest, until jest lately, when we got to take out so much dust. I've allers had to work, and I allers expect to; and I don't raally much calculate ever to git on withoutit as it is. I don't want to move no more, I. don't. I've moved twict; first from the Bay State to the Buckeye, and then fromr the Buckeye out here. I don't go back over them plains agin, not if I know myself intimately." "Then your ambition is simply to stay and be as you are ." "Well, as to ambition, it's a big word, and I don't jest get the hang, on't all in a minute. If it means things I'd like to do, why," looking up, and passing a horny lhand through his griz- zled hair " p'raps a wood roof d be slicker 'n a cotton one-and a nice barn with stalls is a sight better 'n a corral I did use to think," continued Seth, as the thought of an old memory, a youthful, half-forgotten aspiration, played over his face-"I did use to think that if I was awful lucky, I'd like to spend my old age on the Blueberry Hill Farm at Old Saybrook ; where my gran'father's bones is, my father havin' bad luck,' and bein' obleeged to sell it when I was alittle shaver. It's a costly farm, that is, aind to own it would be the only thing to tempt me ever to, pull up stakes agin. But I was allers content with what Providence seed fit to send, and I ain't goin' to take to grum- blin' now. It's well for all on us, Tpears to me, that let alone havin' a roof, we've got any scalps to, put under 'em; and I'm willin' for one to rest and be thankful." "It 'ud be more Christianer to jest think of totin' my chiny over here," muttered Mrs. Armstrong, shaking her knitting- 6*   130         MARAN g ROOKE; OR, needles and staring over her spectacles from the chimney corner, ' since wishinl 's flyin' round; let alohe six bureaus full o' lidien fixin's and patchwork-comforters to reach from here to the canion. But I never see a thing in trousers yet but was mean and riley on patchwork and chiny." Stone-front block, cottage on a somethink, and rest and be thankful on a wood roof instead of a cotton one," said Mr. Panghurn, briskly, and stirring up the gold with his forefinger, and then tasting it as if it were undergoing some culinary pro- cess. "What do you say, Mr. Gifford?" "I?" said Hugh, carelessly; "why, I scarcely know. You say there are a hundred pounds weight there-scarcely twenty thousand dollars; if I had let us suppose, 'five times that amount, I dare say I should go and travel in Europe." "Five times '!" exclaimed Panghurn, aghast; "a hundred thousand dollars! Why,you don't mean to say ye'd go and spend all that money among foreigners out o' yer own country -" I I didn't say I should spend it all," replied Hug-Ih; then observ ing the horror of his interlocutor, he added, " although I dare say I might-European travelling is, I hear, very expensive." "Well," observed Mr. Panghurn, derisively, "when ye git it ye can go and travel it aout; I give you leave. What's your notion o' spendin' your money, Dick Railes? P'raps you'd like to go a' scatterin' of your substance on stony places, eh?" "Not I," returned that worthy. "That ain't my style, that ain't. I don't want to scatter nuthin' unless it's shot if I kin get a good double barr'l, and not then if I can't hev a good smell dog in t' the bargain. I'd like a good house and a good horse, and play-day 'bout half the time, and"-peering over toward the corner where Kitty sat blushing over her knitting-" a pooty gal to help me enjoy it."  "That's you," nodded Mr. Panghurn, approvingly, " symper- thizin' allers with a taste for loveliness; only ye know, Dick, the more play the less dimes, a proverb never stale in thrifty minds. It's also hard to resoom toil arter too much relaxation. When engaged in editorial duty on the 'Mounting Clarion,' no one ever know'd me to unbend the bow, a circumstance whichl, be- sides servin' the public and keepin' active the intellectual facul- ties, also enabled me to bind Barlow to my will when he came to take charge; he see I never spared myseli, and so prepared never to git spared hisself when his turn come to the bellows. The genius of our country is to keep a pitchin' in ; whereby the grass don't grow under her feet afore she hits'somethink." The company having duly admired this brief dissertation on   - -  THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        131 industry, the Doctor proposed that Luke, who had remained silent, should impart his views as to the enjoyment of his pros- pective wealth.        . "Allers rememberin'," cautioned Zelotes, "that twenty thou- sand dollars in two months is equal to forty thousand in .four months, and sixty thousand in, six; lettin' alone contingent finds, and allowin' that nuthin' busts, up to the cainon."  "It seems like counitin' our chickens afore they're hatched," said Luke, in response, "to talk about bein' rich yet awhile; but I think if I was to have my time, I'd like to git some books, and read and study for a year or two." "Study!" echoed Zelotes, contemptuously. "What on alrth d'ye want to study for? You've been to grammar-school, ain't ye?" "Three winters,' answered modest Luke; "summers I had to work on the farm, like most folks down our way, and all I learned won't hurt me much. I think'a man ought to try and improve himself when he gits a fair show, and don't have to work all the time." "Wall," said the Editor, "my plan-always was to do workin' and readin' the same time; workin' for the biglicks, and readin' ' for fillia' up the chinks, and then ye don't lose nuthin'!" "That may do for common things-'rithmetic and geography, anid such; but if a man wants to make himself knowledgeable, so 's to fit himself to be with folks who are better educated than. he's been used to, he's got to buckle down to it."  "You git money enough," chuckled Mr. Panghurn, "and you'll find yourself fit enough for any society they kin scare up. This 'ere yaller stuff teaches folks what's what, a darned sight quicker'n any books that ever was writ; and what's more,' there ain't nobody nowheres but what kin understand it." "I don't vote for puttin' too much store on money, I don't," remarked Seth; mildly;. "It's a verygood thing to have, that's a fact, and our folks have felt the want of it. We've worked hard for our livin' so fur, and no mistake; but I allow I'd rather hear a son of mine had a good name among his neighbors and no more money, than to hear him call-dd a rascal, and be ten times as rich as his father was." "That's you, Seth!" exclaimed Mrs. Armstrong, from her cornel.  I'm with ye there, chiny or no ehiny.  And as to that critter," she continued, in an undertone, and peering specu latively at Pqqghurn over her spectacles, "I think lihed sell his father; if he's got one, for thirty pieces, quicker 'n a wink." "tepo tation," proceeded that critter, gravely, "is a fig, oft   132        MARTAN OOKE;, OR, got without merit and lost without deserving But eagles is eagles, and passes current all the world over." "Anyhow," continued Luke, "it's a free country, and I take it we kin all spend our earnin's in our own way." "That is so,"' acquiesced Panghurn, " and we don't hev' to pay it all away in taxes neither, like them 'ere downtrodden people in the old world. What the poor man gits the poor man keeps, and the sweat of honest labor ain't used to ile the hinges of luxurious pomp." "Hail Columby!" bawled Ike, from his divan on the floor, where he was extended with his four-footed companion. Hail Columby! and long live everybody but Ike and Lion! The only ones who know how to git the money; the only ones that knows how to spend it when it is got and the only ones whose idees on the pini ain't asked for to teach the folks wisdom. Guess when the gold gves out on the canon ye won't be so smart; like enough then ye'll come and ask us to show ye some- thing, and perhaps then we won't do it. Talk of gold! All ye've got in that there cake-basket is no more to what Ike kin show ye than a minner to a whale, nor a huckleberry to a pum- kin!" "Well, and why don't ye then, Ike?" said Luke soothingly. "Why don't ye show us?" ' "Why don't mother, here, teach ye how to knit, or Lion to sniff out where the bones is? 'Cause it ain't fit for ye, and 'cause ye couldn't learn it, and 'cause it wouldn't do ye good if ye could," was Ike's, as usual, unsatisfactory reply. But, for all his ailing wits, poor Ike worked as hard, and as fairly earned his share as any one on the Bar. With his own free consent it had been agreed that'Seth should take charge of this share, de- ducting what each regularly paid toward the expenses of the household. The Doctor, who had watched his case with interest, was of opinion that the change of scene from his old home on the Ohio, together with regular and healthful occupation, might effect a change for the better in his mental condition; but although there was now and then an apparently lucid interval, it was always soon interrupted by a relapse into his usual con- dition. It was a case, indeed,- which some great and unexpected shock was more likely to restore than any monotonous routine of life, and such could only be brought about by fate or acci- dent, and could not be improvised at will. Whatever might be the varying hopes or ambitions of the members of our little band, there was no want of energy or in- genuity in the pursuit of the common object. Day followed   I           THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        133 day, and week succeeded week,.and there was no sickness, no interruption, save on the Sabbath, to the lucrative toil. All worked as if this was the sole chance to overtake fortune, and they were deteimined the fickle goddess should not escape them. Occasionally Mr. Panghurn would absent himself for a day or two's attention to the affiairs of the "Mountain Clarion," but the zeal and vigor with which he resumed his post at the work on his return were universally allowed to compensate for such defections of his time. iHe had the art, too, of making himself generally useful in a manner which gradually gained on the popular esteem.' HHe it was who brought pipes and tobacco, and replenished the failing supply of whiskey. He who brought calicoes for the females, yarns for Mrs. Armstrong, even needles and pins, at times when those little articles were scarce and most needed.  Occasionally, newspapers from the Atlantic States, and even an odd volume or two, would gladden the Sun- days at the Bar with intelligence and food for reflection, which were much in request. Even the Doctor was in course of time propitiated by offierings of small nicknacks in the way of sta- tionery, and other trifles difficult to get in the mines, but quite necessary to his peace and comfort. Notwithstanding the un- couthness of his person, and the unfavorable impression he had first made on many of the company, Mr. Panghurn was celtainly improving upon acquaintance; and when it was remembered that he was, in a great measure, the author of the prosperity which they now enjoyed, it was not surprishing that the settlers on the Bar grew in time to regard him very much in the light of a public benefactor. CTTAPTlHR VII. I AM afraid Hugh .Gifford was not a model hero. It has al- ready been hinted that he did not impress me on our first acquaintance as a very prepossessing personage. I may as well go further, and say that it took a long time to find out the good that was really in him; and that it would not surprise me to know thatvthe reader were very ready to appreciate the circum- stance.  He was in truth one of those people whom hard fortune and unfavorable surroundings lead into the habit of continually turning the worst side of their character outwards. Believing   himself to have been ill-used, whether by accident or fate; too proud to go through the world making complaints; having a inely balanced mind, and a very sensitive nervous organization; despising, whether justly or not, most of those with whom he was brought in contact; habitually taking refuge in books, be- cause debarred from congenial and. appropriate society; believ- ing from his earliest youth that there was something incongruous and oppressive in the social structure and political tenets which encircled him; feeling that he possessed talents which in a less depressing atmosphere would enable him to do good for mankind and satisfy his own self-respect, it was natural that with such qualities and with such disabilities he should have become re- served and suspicious; it was natural that he should have be- come very, very proud; and it was natural that he should be, at first at least, very much disliked by nearly all whom chance threw in his way. It is, not easy to defend such a character; but it would be most unjust to condemn it. A man who, by his coldness and reticence, habitually prohibits attempts at sympathetic inter- course, soon gains more disesteem than he deserves. We are apt to resent such a want of appreciation of ourselves by attrib- uting to the offender bad qualities, of which he has given no other evidence, and of which he may really be innocent. He becomes exceedingly unpopular; and it is not an adequate recom- pense that such men, disliked by society, should always be the favorites of philosophers, and, almost as invariably, the favorites of clever women. Such men have much to suffer; and what- ever the origin of their peculiarities-whether they have sprung from the unmerited persecutions of fortune, or have their source in mere morbid egotism--the world is ever slow to do them justice-ever ready to listen to their censure. She loves not those who do not seek her in spirit and in truth; she is bitterly hostile to those who affect to despise her, There was something interwoven in the texture of H-ugh's intellect- from which he could no more escape than from the blood in his veins. A feeling of distaste for the ways of the peo- ple by whom his boyhood and youth had been surrounded; a dislike of their dress, their speech, their physiognomy, their re- ligious observances, their social practices; a loathing for the col- orlessness of life, as life had to be lived among them; a hatred for square houses, and straight roads, and naked fields, and the other too numerous signs of dreary asceticism, of provincial in- tolerance. These were the outward and visible signs of a social condition which seemed to his nature most repellent, and, as the   producer of general happiness, a blank delusion. No servants or other blind teachers had ever infused prejudices into his mind. Had they made such efforts, they would have made them in an opposite direction: they would have striven to persuade him that America was the choicest country, in every respect, in the universe ; that New England was the choicest part of America; and that Massachusetts was the choicest part of New England. They Would have taught him that her laws, her schools, her temples, her people, were more glorious than those of Imperial Rome, or of Academic Greece. They would have insisted that no system of government could compare with one which placed its power in the hands of the ignorant many, and judiciously relegated to inert obscurity the thihking few: all these things they would have reported, and he would probably not have be- lieved them; but no such experiment had, in point of fact, ever been made. His mind, such as it was, grew up and expanded, and took in such knowledge as it craved and could lay hold of, and arrived at its own conclusions. He saw and felt early that to make any figure in the world he must first get money. That to get it he must meet and grapple with cunning and unscrupulous men, and perhaps become as cunning and unscrupulous as they. Where there was only one object of ambition, and the means universally regarded as indif- ferent, provided the end were attained, it seemed clear that no one could reach that end and hope to preserve clean hands and an unsullied conscience. The case was simplicity itself. It was running a race in a narrow, filthy avenue with crowds of dirty competitors, and mountains of mud and slime to 'struggle through; yet there was nothing else to be done-there was no cleaner road, no selecter companions: it wa/s this or nothing. The conclusion was revolting enough, but really there was no help for it.  Having made up his mind to this, Hugh Gifford went his way, always secretly despising himself. He was unfortunate, truly, in meeting no loftier natures than he did-natures which might have taught him where his eirors lay in a kindly spirit-might have revealed to him glimpses of that knowledge which surely comes to each and all of us sometimes, the fulness of which is as the eternal day. He was unfortunate in the women toward whom he had ever been attracted-even in that lonely, helpless sort of way that men turn toward utterly uncongenial, incom- patible women, in the absence of any more eligible or loveable- vainly groping after the help and consolation which seems so long in coming. The last and gravest-it might almost be said  186         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, the only-attraction of this kind had been no more productive than any other. He fancied he loved Virginia Chester, and no doubt he did admire her as much as any other ever could or would; but that he loved her as he was capable of loving was untrue; and he was tormented, even when most resolute in thinking of the prospective consummation of duty and inclina- tion-their marriage-by a dismal consciousness of the fact. Now, whatever might be its permanent effect upon his char- acter, his meeting and association with Marian Rooke made Gif- ford much less comfortable-less at ease with himself-less con- tent to pursue the path he had inwardly traced out-than he had been before. She saw, with that singular prescience which women of her stamp possess, and which is unerring as it is in- explicable, that the young man had latent qualities of a far higher and nobler nature than those which appeared on the sur- face of his character-qualities which needed appreciation, cul- ture encouragement, it is true but which were not the less gen- uine and not the less worthy of all that could be bestowed to draw them forth. tHow far Marian was actuated by a warmer than a mere speculative interest in the matter we may fairly leave for the present out of the discussion; suffice that her self respect was of too high a standard to permit such a sentiment to become apparent, either to Hugh or others. True, they were often together, and seemed to take pleasure in each other's soci- ety; but it was known that Gifford was already engaged, and" there was that about Marian which prevented people firom in- dulging either in word or thought of the fleering sort, so com- mon when young men and maidens talk much together. There was an exception to the general view in the breast of Luke Armstrong; but of that hereafter. Sometimes by hints, sometimes by suggestions, sometimes by soaring pietures of what was her own ideal of life and its du- ties, sometimes by processes of questioning and inference too subtle to be more than shadowed by mere words, whenever the girl was with Giford this awakening or developing influence was slowly but surely at work. Oftentimes it would be uncon- sciously to both, but it never ceased. There would be occa- sions when Marian would feel that she had gone too far; that their relative situations did not warrant her seeking to reverse his convictions, or to change the current of his resolutions. There would be occasions when he would hold half angry com- mune with himself, and determine that it was foolish, vain, im- possible to overthrowthe teachings of his whole experience, aind to set up new objects of ambition. But-neither of these ocd-a ' ?    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        137 sionswere productive of any tangible results; for that which was going on was chiefly involuntary, and in obedience to im- mutable laws. The earth would go round the slun, and not the sun round the earth, Papal decisions to the contrary notwith- standing. I do not mean to convey the idea that through this regener- ating influence Hugh Gifford was metamorphosed, of a sudden, from a warped, self-contained egotist, to a great-souled, high- minded man; that would have been too miraculous for real life, and we have to do with no other. The process, indeed, was a slow one' and, like the incoming tide, showed a long series of advances and retrocessions. When I began to know the main- I mean when I penetrated the first crust of his reserve, and to catch glimpses of his real character--I doubted whether the good or the bad most predominated. It was a singular trait with him, at that time, to deal with people much in their own coin. I have known him to get the better of unprincipled sharpers-to turn the tables upon them when they laid their deepest schemes to circumvent him, and positively to fleece them in turn. This surely was not right. It was what he could never have done had Iarian Rooke stood near, watching his course with her calm, earnest eyes. But, on the other hland, if Hugh had to deal with a man of honor-with a person of plain, guileless integrity-there could be no juster judge, no more trustworthy friend. If he alone had had to deal with him, I doubt not Hugh would have even got the better of Mr. Pang- burn; albeit it had been a marvellous encounter, and opinions might well waver as to its issue. But had he to deal with Seth Armstrong, or with his son Luke, you might adventure worlds that if there were an advantage Hugh would cast it against himself.  It followed that tricky and dishonest people-and there were abtuidance of such in those early Californian days-were apt, on coming into contact with our hero, to hail him as one of their own order; and that upright, simple, and straightforward peo- ple-of whom there were -unhappily but few-wouldput in a similar claim. Each class was equally sincere-equally right and equally wrong; but a comparison of their relative numbers would augur unfavorably for Hugh's reputation., There were two of the company at Armstrong's, Bar whose attachment, to Gifford was utterly independent of his merits or defects. Had he been an angel from heaven they could have clung to him no closer; had he been a fiend incarnate they would have loved him no less. These were Ichabod and Lion.   MARIAN ROOKE; OR,      : The memory of the moment when, by a happy accident, the life of the latter had been saved by Hugh's interposition, seemed ever fresh in the breasts alike of the animal and his master. Neither had the human wit to know why they should dislike, but both appeared to have gratitude enough to love a benefac- tor. The others of the party grew to understand and like him better as time wore on. Those especially who did not fancy Hugh before their great trial and deliverance on the plains, were mollified by the courage and steadiness he had shown on that occasion. Dick Railes and his followers were of those con- verts: but none of them were or could be fit associates for Hugh; and thei' intercourse was limited to a common friendli- ness, such as came naturally with their common toil. Leaving Marian out of the question, none could be called his intimates save these two alone. So, therefore, it was, that, whether engaged in the rude, rough labor of digging and washing for gold-whether strolling with Marian at early morning or in the dusky evening on the banks of the stream-whether exploring in the fastnesses and recesses of the mountains and forests for fresh sources of wealth, fresh signs of auriferous deposit-whether sitting on the brink of a lovely little lake they had found perched clear away up among the hills--whether waking or sleeping, Hughl was all but invariably attended'by a body-guard in the persons of the poor simpleton and his faithful dog. -CHAPTER VI11. "So you'll not leave the Armstrongs after all. You won't go on a solitary ramble to hunt for fresh gold-fields, but will stay and make your fortune on the Bar?" Thus said Marian, as they sat together one quiet Sunday morn- ing by the shore of the lake which was perched up among the hills. They sat on a little cushion of velvet turf which crowned-a tiny promontory jutting into the lake. A few feet below them lay the placild water, smooth as glass. Above were the tall branches of a great redwood, which neither waved nor whisper- ed in the motionless air. All around lay an amphitheatre of lov hills, their outlines broken here and there by spreading foliage; whilst masses of dark-gray rock, some imbedded in the earth   'J 139   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.   some lying apparently loose on its surface, relieved the green, and told the curious eye a story of not very remote volcanic com- motion. At a short distance, on the edge of the water, crouched Ike, sedulously engaged in the difficult problem of making a little vessel he ad carved of redwood, sail without wind; and Lion lay by, watching the endeavor with incredulous apathy. It was a very lazy day, with a soft, lulling atmosphere, not common in regions where the air is so elastic. There were lumps of white clond hanging over-head and looking like gigantic powder-puffs, whbose'images were reflected in the miror below, distinct and ai J as the originals. Who knows t" replied Hugh tossing a bit of stick toward X:ion, and managing to land it on his back; the dog turned quickly, and, seeing who was his assailant, gave a slow wag of his tail and resumed his languid observation of Ike. "Who knows? Things look promising enough so far, but we have no assurance of lasting success. The yield may drop as quickly as it rose. -This gold-digging is very like a rocket: very brilliant one moment, very dull the next. All we can do is to make the most of it while it lasts. We had a dazzling week of it, to be sure-nearly a thousand dollars a man; and the coming week may see us fall to our old average of fifty. Still, I grant the prospect is a good one." "I am so glad," said Marian, " that you resisted that man's attempt to get the party to work on Sundays. Others do it, no doubt; but it would seem so dreary and barbarous-fiar away in these unpeopled wilds as we are, and a hundred miles from any church-to have no day of rest, nothing to remind one of the sweet Sabbath of childhood." The miners on the Bar had resolved at the outset to do no labor on Sundays; and had found their account, as people usually will, by accomplishing quite as much in the six days as any of their neighbors did in seven. It was rare in those times for any of the diggers to respect the Iord's day any more than another. Their feverish thirst for 'gold would have made them work by night, if nature and starlight would have allowed it. When the Sundays first began to be distinguished in the various diggings, it was rather, as in-Catholic countries. as a day of festivity than one of prayer; gambling being the favorite diver- sion, with its usual concomitants of drinking and blasphemous revelry. "I don't know that they get more more' gold," answered Hugh, thoughtfully; " but the men are more healthy and happy, for a day to bathe and tidy their clothes, and write their letters.   MARIA ROOKE ; OR,  here are sad scenes, we hear, in the larger places on Sundays. But we have gained as well as lost something by our isolation. Not but that we have a very good set; but the best of men 'will drink or gamble, or go a little wrong, so f fr from the restraints of home, and leading so strange-so unusual a life." "You will make your fortune on the Bar," continued the girl, pursuing her former train of thought, "and return home, rich. But you must not stay at home. That would be only to become settled and confimned in ways and thoughts which are not best for your future. Yu must travel travel and study. There are many strange things you should know of-many you should see, which you have no great knowledge of now." ," True," said the young man, humbly " too many." "Don't say 'too many,' for that implies a hopelessness which doesn't belong to eight-and-twenty, good health, a fortune-in prospective; and a beautiful wife to encourage you." "Equally in prospective!" "You will travel-chiefly in Europe, for there almost all things are to be learned. You must spend your time mostly in England and France, for in those countries there is more to learn than in the whole of Europe beside. You must study their manners, their arts, their laws, and their governments-not superficially, but so as to have a substantial, if not a particular knowledge of them all. You must especially note the differences which exist between all these things and similar or analogous ones in your own country. You must be able to judge for your- self how far we in America are really in advance, and how far we are behind the progress and civilization of other nations; for the people of all countries are apt to be conceited, and to suppose, from the continued boasting they hear all around them, that their own is superior to every other. You, perhaps, are somewhat different; you seem to think that in our country-at least in your part of it-we are not so well off as others in some important respects. It will be well, therefore, that you should see for yourself the condition of the population in other lands, so that you may form a really just comparison. After some years devoted to this kind of study and investigation, you will return home." "I fear," said Hugh, smiling, "that supposing all these castles to be built of anything more substantial than air-sup- posing them to be resolved into solid realities-that if I found rmyself in Europe with a sufficient income, reasonably assured. I should falsify your sketch." "Ah, you mean you could remain?"     I think so." "And I thought so-and that is precisely what you would have no right to do." "No right? Not if I made my fortuneby my ownhonest toil?" "No. l "I think you combat your own theories there. You say that self-culture is our first and highest duty, but you would refuse the right to stay where such culture could be practised with the best advantage. Surely if the sight of all that is most ennobling and artistic in the works of the most cultivated of our species- the monuments of architecture, of sculpture, of painting-if the survey of what remains of the greatest achievements of our race, ranging far back into the history of the past-if the con- templation, on the spot, of the results which have arisen from the successes and the failures of dynasties-if these are not the  objects whose study is most conducive to self-improvement, what things are more so?" "There are none, I suppose." "But yet you would censure me for wishing to remain among them?" "No ; not if you were justified in living for yourself alone. But what human being is so justified? How, least of all can, any one be justified in a country like this, where there is such vast work to be done, and so few'to do it? Of what avail is your culture to be, if it is only to conduce to your own selfish gratifi- cation? Iow can any of us regard such opportunities of im- provement-opportunities given us like talents to use for the ben- efit of all around us-if, like talents, they are to be wrapped up and put away in a napkin? No; you will see all you can, learn all you can, think all you can, and you will then return to give your country the benefit of what you have acquired." ' Virginia could not sympathize with all this," said Gifford, sadly. "You ought to teach her, then. If you have the fortune, or the wit to see and use noble means for raising, or aiding, or free- ing your fellow-beings, that happiness, the purest and most sub- lime of which humanity is capable, should be shared by her whom you swear to love, to cherish, and to protect." "I would, gladly do my duty; but natures-souls-are so very, very different. Could you teach Ike, there, to fancy Wordsworth, or Mr. Panghurn to appreciate the beauties of Ten- nyson? She is good, and gentle, and true; but I do not think she would understand such tastes as you describe, were I to strive ever so hard to teach them."   '(iWomen are, nine times out of ten, more capable than your sex are disposed to believe. At least, you can try the experi. ent, and should you fail, you will not have yourself to blame. As for me  " Marian paused, for the sun behind now caused some long shadows to darken the water before them, and she perceived -that the company was more numerous than shehad thought. A few paces off, and slowly descending the slope, were Luke Arm- strong and Mr. Panghnrii. "Ye crags and peaks, I'm with ye once agin i" declaimedthe latter. "I'd no idee there was such a pooty place on the Bar! Hee, p'raps, the sedgy Injun once paddled his (usky canoe- here he barbecued his venison, and friizled his taters, and had no man to make him afraid! No offence, I hope, none intended, public property, hey? And the hull company invited to a syl- van shade, sacred to love and water-paower! "I wouldn't have disturbed you, MaIry Anne," said Luke, and there was a faint touch of reproach inll his manner, " or you Mr. Gifford, but there's letters jest -come for both of ye, and I tho't you'd like to have 'em." ' Thank you very much, Luke," answered the girl; "you are "M. Panghurn said he'd like to take a walk,' continuedLuke, half apologetically, (I and so he come along.' Holin',' ridded that gentleman, sarcastically, is thathis room ain't better than his company."' "The place is free to all, I suppose," said Hugh Gifford, cold- ly  "there are no monopolies here." "No more they ought to be. What's the use ofhavin' a free country if ye ain't free to go where you like in it? The beauty of Californy, when I fust come to it, was that there weren't a fence the hull length and breadth of the land, 'cept corrals to stow the cattle in." "This is for you, Mary Anne, and it looks as if it had a European postmark. And this is for you, Mr. Gifford." "Any intelligence of interest bein' understood to be bespoke for the Mounting Clarion," suggested Zelotes. "I doubt whether mine will be of any service, said Marian,- smiling " since my correspondent is neither much interested in public affairs nor very communicative ; but, with your leave, I'll She walked quietly away as shefinished; and Gifford, after re- ceiving his own missive and thanking its bearer, as deliberately went in the same direction, and was seen to join and walk by   Marian's side ; whereupon Lion gravely arose, and, with meas- ured steps, followed in their track ; and Ike, quite as a matter of course, having withldran his vessel from the glassy water, proceeded to follow the dog. The two thus-left behind, looked for a moment at the retreating figures and then at each other. "-That ere's kind o' sociable, ain't it?" commented Mr Pang- burn, grinning after the pair like a rat of an ironical turn. "Two's company and more isn't, eh? For I don't count that 'ere silly cuss nothink. ' Let on now, willye, how long's young Besting been sweet on the gal .?" !Sweet on her!" echoed Luke, half angrily ; "he ain't-he can't be." "It looks tarnationlike it. Why can't he be?" "Because it's impossible." "Six o' one and half-a-dozen o' the other- Handsome gal- eyes like lightnin'-lips like coral-pooty bust--clipper-built all over. Young man silent and gloomy-stuck up, rather-no other gals round 'cept that pooty sister o' yourn and she en- gaged to that 'ere backwopdsman and might do better; 'pears to me natural these folks should be sweet." ,' I tell you it's out of the question. * She's too good; and I don't think, for that matter, that he's the man to do a real mean thing." "Nuthin' mean 'bout bein' sweet, Gs there? That ain't what I call it. I never see a pooty gal yit who was too good to be cottoned up to." "You don't understand," said the other, impatiently; "Hugh Gifford isn't his own man; he's engaged-engaged to be mar- ried to a young lady at home-his home-in Massachusetts." "Thunder! Why didn't ye tell me that afore '?" "Tell you / Why should I?" "What's a young feller like you up to, that lets a chap who's spoke for lug a gal like that right away from under his nose? Where's yer spunk? If I weren't in somethin' like the same box as his'n-not," he added in the way of parenthesis, and gaz- ing speculatively on Marian's form, now disappearing beyond the opposite slope, "but what I could wriggle aout if I tried hard-referrin' to a young lady in Utiky--I'd try it on merself." The blood mounted to Luke's brow, and he bit his lips to keep himself firom an angry retort. Rough and uneducated as hezwas, he had delicacy and perception enough, independently of his own particular feelings, to be outraged by the incongruous asso- ciation, even in idle words, of such a woman as Marian and the satyr-like creature beside him.   "You see," he explained, finally, " she's not a gurl to flirt  with any one in a common way; she knows too much. Her and him have read a good many of the same books-for he's got a sight o' book learnin'-and they like to talk together about 'am, Seein' every one knows he's engaged, and allers treated her so distant and respectful, it ain't nobody's business, I 'pose." "And what does your sister Kitty and Miss Armstrong-- what do tihy think about sech goin's on?" '"Think Why, they think the same's the rest on us, I take it, and mind their own business." And Luke began to walk  ; slowly homewards. Mr. Panghurn was not unobservant of the flush on his companion's face and the tremor in his voice during this little discussion. But, partly to satisfy his curiosity, and mat partly from a love of small mischief, inwhich he sometimes i- i j dulged, he essayed to resolve his doubts into certainty. lie , walked along in a reflective manner for a while, and then said: Gals is allers kind o' risky when they're much with young fel- : lers who talk 'bout books, and poetry, and sech things. There  was a gal named Amandy Tomkins drownded herself in a well  , up our way, in Ultiky, 'cause a married man-a dreadful talky, moony kind of a cuss--come round 'her in this same fashion, pretendin' to be single, and blowin' off steam 'bout pomes and sympathetic souls, and alltlhis 'ere entanglin' sawder they go in for, when they know reg'lar courtin' ain't down in the bill.  "You don't mean," said Luke, turning quite pale and coming ' - to a halt, You don't mean that Mary Anne's the gurl, even if j Hugh Gifford w-as the man, to  "             I '?I don't mean. nuthin'," replied Mr. Panghuin, reassuringly, for he saw rather an ominous look in Luke's eye,' I don't mean i nuthin' that's wrong. Only, if I was the gal's'father, or brother, i: or was interested in her'in any way, I'd think prevention was ! better than cure, that's all. She's an awful nice gal," he contin- i tued, by-way of additional mollification, "and I think she jest j takes the rag off any she critter in the diggin's."    I Luke made no reply, but walked on, buried in abstraction, ii The conversation had kindled thoughts which were most painful  to him.' Even against the warnings of his more sensible self, i he had suffered the dangerous beauty of Marian to gain a seri-  oug influence over his heart. He knew full well his own defi- :a ciencies, for he was as free from conceit as he was honest and . simple-minded; but he had sometimes, especially since they ' were growing richer, indulged in the dream that, after all, poor i and homeless as was Marian, and living as they were in a soO- ;   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       145 ety where deficiencies of culture would be least perceived or least missed--the dream that she might overlook all that, and ac- cept the protection of his name and stalwart arm. He had not liked her manifest partiality for Gifford's society; but, partly from diffidence and partly from good nature, he had never more than faintly indicated such a thing. . Besides, he knew of Hugh's engagement; and, moreover, his nature was not narrow enough to be lightly jealous. But now new thoughts had entered his mind-thoughts of apprehension and dismay--thoughts which led him to consider whether it was not a duty, somehow,. to put Marian on her guard, even if apprehension should prove to be groundless. Even the wisest may sometimes be misled, and perhaps both the young girl and Hugh were going idly astray, merely for the want of some friendly and judicious warning.    . That such a warning would be given, if given at all, in the in-  i terest of his own even to himself scarce half-avowed hopes, Lukoe was well aware ; but he was too unsophisticated to think  j of hesitating in what he once believed to be a duty, simply be- cause of the risk of misconstruction.               i Whether r'. Panghurn had contemplated such a result as the product of his invfdious suggestions; whether he was impelled  by curiosity, mere idle malice, or real dislike of the cool and dis- tant manner wherewith Gifford always lhad treated him; or whether he was merely animated by the wish to pursue his studies in human nature, certain it is that his words had pro- duced considerable effect upon the mind of Luke Armstrong; sufficient, at all events, to hasten an explanation which that  young man had often longingly contemplated, but which ap- peared to have required some extraordinary stimulus before it could be brought about. While this scene was passing between Luke and Zelotes, the letters which had arrived furnished occasion for an important explanation between Mariaa and Gifford. She had often said that her stay on the Bar would only, last until midsummer-a period which she had fixed as likely to bring information which would seriously affect her whole future prospects. When Marian first sought the protection of Seth Armstrong, her para- ' mount impulse was to fly-to find safety wherever it might be; and her idea of sustaining. herself as a teacher or governess oc- curred very naturally afterwards. But at that time, in the absence  of families, and in the heat and hurry of the race for lucre, there seemed little or no demand for such services as she could afford, and such attempts as she had made by advertising in the San Francisco newspapers had hitherto proved unavailing. On -             .                ..' i.   14f        MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, this the Armstrongs had pressed Mrian to remain permanently among them, and she bad so far consented as to agree to stay until midsummer-a consent, however, which was based on a step which she had previously resolved to take. In. the flurry of her flight she had scarcely thought of a person to whom her thoughts were now directed as to one who might naturally be her counsel and guide: this was a very old friend of her father's, a man somewhat his senior, long settled as a lawyer at New 'Orleans This gentleman usually spent the summer at the. North, and, knowing the address of his agent at New Yorki 1S gian hs d now written to him describing her situation, and soliciting his help to put her in a way to earn her bread some- where in the Northern States. To this letter Lukle hadlnow handed her a reply. It was from the agrent in question, and stated that I. llivingstone had sailed for Europe some months before, to be absent for two years; but that the letter of Miss Rooke had been forwarded, and would be certain to reach hilm in due course. Such was the explanation which Marian now made to Gifford, adding thereto a statement of her resolution not to outstay the time originally fixed for her departure, but to set out at furthest by the mdle of July, to seek employment at San Francisco.  ' CHAPTER X.               i- GOLD-GETTIrG was the vital action of the drama, the bright finale to every dream of the little world at Armstrong's Bar; but, like the drama and the dream of the Midsummer Night, it J included several actions, and linlked iogether many and conflict- ing aspirations. All worked regularly and zealously enough for the common end; but their days were not all of quietness, nor ;were all their paths of peace. There -were at intervals dire con- flicts touching matters of polity and society between Dr. Lan- dale and Lr. PanIghurn-two opposing stars who could not be in the same sphere without many a perturbation and ominous collision. - In suach encounters the Doctor must be adjudged to have had the best of it so far as scientific, statistical and julis- prudential knowledge were concerne4; but even such consider- able advantages did not always, in the general esteem, secure a conclusive victory against the soaring eloquence and blistering bi .;   THE QUEST FOR FOR TUNE.       147' sarcasm of 'his opponent. The latter, as might occasionally have been gathered from his ordinary discourse, had been enabled by some dramatic experience to make up after a fashion his general cloudiness on other subjects of polite letters. By some rlys- terious chance in his erratic career he had been for a .short time a  theatrical critic or reporter for a western newspaper; and hav- ing naturally a retentive memory, and an imagination readily impressed by the swelling diction of the class of plays most favored of occidental taste, he frequently drew upon this resource to eke out his own flowery  periods. This, indeed, with a certain rough facility in eatchincg fragments of popular verse, and in using the extraordinary slang so current with the inferior press --the hackne'yed commonplaces about political subjects which rest upon the ear, and not upon the sense-his familiarity with a certain oratorical class-book known as "The Amnerican Speaker," to^gether with his close acquaintance with the world as he had seen it, constituted the sum total of the weapons in Mr. Panghurn's intellectual armory; but it could not fairly be denied that he used them with adroitness and effect. The Doc- tor, who, like many of his countrymen, exhibited an odd union of crabbedness and good-nature, often found his adversary so interesting as a psychological study as to quite disarm his ani- mosity---a result which Zelotes very promptly and very naturally would attribute to his own controversial superiority. "I kerry too many guns," he asserted, with his derisive leer; ' I kerry too man  y unsfor any o' these 'ere Britishers to stand afore. I jest pint 'em, I do, and tech 'cm off, loaded to the muzzle with the principles of our glorious constitution rammed daoivn with the pole of liberty; and afore the smoke hists, the bloated advocates of tyranny has left, and kin be heerd of from up a tree. Sic semper arastercrats! is the sentiments of Z. Pang- burn, and the more they hev' to do with him the sicker they'll be."  ' Stuff and nonsense," growled the Doctor.  ou You Y kees will never learn that your constitution owes all that is good in it, ana your country too, to the mother-land. As to the rebel- lion, it was an English rebellion against an un-English princi- ciple. Because George the Third and his ministers violated the  principle of their own country-no taxation Without represent- ation-and your ancestors fought for and vindicated that prin- r ciple, you think your constitution and your government, both copied from the old models, are antagonistic to the English ones. Trash, sir, which every Yankee schoolboy ought to see through, and would, if you didn't fence them in and shut out   "8        -MARIAN BOOKE; On, the light by mountains of twaddle about tyranny and liberty, and rotten old despotisms, and the like. Let them read Chat- ham's 'speeches, or even Burgoyne's, for that matter, when lie came to seek laurels in the foraumn he had lost in the field, and learn a bit of sense on the other side." There ain't no sense," retorted Zelotes, " nor yit no justice to be got out o' the minions of despots; and, as to our consti- tution, it was made up bran new and slick to order by T. Jeffer- son and A. Hamilton. If there's been any hookin' of idees, it's been on yoour side, 'cause a selfish and corrupt aristocracy got skeered by the fierce haowls of a daown-trodden people. We air a curus people, and our idees is all of hum manufactur'. We air strong and vigorous, and we call no man master. We are youling, but peert; and we don't go hauthoying about for other folks' notions, when we kin git 'cm, as easy as rollin' off a log, out o' the mint and coinage of our brains.:' ' There's nothing in .your laws, your government, or your constitution," said the Doctor, stubbornly, " which is worth a fig for the happiness of mankind that Englishmen did not mnake perfect, assert, fight for, and die for, before Jefferson or Hamil- ton were born: And as for your youth, if there's any merit in it, you are as old a nation as the English, if not as old in Amer- ica as they are in England. Crossing the ocean doesn't make a man younger, neither does it a people." ' - It makes him spryer and 'cuter," contended Mr. Panghurn, "and shows him a heap o' thiings he never heerd of, and giner- ally enlarges the field of his intellectooal vision. It teaches him to shake off them 'ere degradin' superstitions and worm-eaten customs of the old world, which priests and lords air tryin' to keepD a goin', so's to save their hides and plunder, long arter the spirit of the age has called with a loud voice that it was time they went under. It teaches him that all mankind are equal by nateral right, and that distinctions 'that makes 'cm different is the unnateral humbug of them that wants to set themselves up above their feller critters. It teaches him that we air the Ark of Safety, the. Hum of Freedom, and the Haven of the Op- pressed.' "There's good here, certainly," went on the Doctor, "as well as bad. But the good is nearly all English, and the bad you've invented among yourselves. There's no particalar merit in developing the resources of a vast rich country-resources *The Doctor had, apparently, read Mr. Lander's "Imagnary Conversations.",   l !          THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.- 14 "9q ?; , which would almost develop themselves; and you've no right ;!  to credit for greatness of national character until the nation has ; been exposed to and has resisted temptation; until she's made sacrifices for the sake of right and a pure reputation, which prove the capacity and high-mindedness of her people. For all your good cause, the military strength of England would have l   overwhelmed you, bad she not been setrupon atthe same time by nearly every nation in Christendom. The matter was well managed, but you wouldn't have carried the point single-handed. America had then, as she has had always, prodigious good luck and her sons have gone about the world ever since praising ' themselves for a result for which they ought to give at least equal credit to Fortune." - "We don't give no credick to nobody," demurred Zelotes, nor nuthin' else, where we don't git nuthin' in return. We air the architecks of our own fortin', we air, and we don'lt want nobody to teach us how to build. And as to other nations, we kin lick your'n and them too, and we ain't over pettikilar when we begin. We'.ve done it twice, and we kin do it ain " "You'd better not try it," quoth the Doctor, waxing wroth; "at least not when we're not fighting half the world beside. But I dare say you Yankees Will be shrewd enough to pick your time." "We do everythink on business principles," exclaimed Mr PIanghurn, winking and grinning with sardonic joy at the oth- erl s anger. "I we kin bring both arms agen' your one, we'll do it, sure enough; but then it is our praoud boast that we kin lick ye wiith one hand all .the same. The Stars and Stripes is good aen' the world, they air; and they kiver twenty-five millions of freenlen."                     .. "And how many slaves?  How many stripes cover them? If your systemi were far better, far more enlightening than it is, those poor creatures' wrongs would suffice to darken it." "Darken it?  Darken that air banner? Do the spots darken the sunll? Does. a  shootin' star spile the glory of the skies ? Does a   black sheep sethack a hull flock aly? Ireckon not. Who fetched the niggers here?  No  Yankee or Yankee gov- ernment, was it? ' Think on, my chains? Hlow came they on me?' 'Beware'my    vengeance!' 'Kin it more than kill ' ' And is not that enough?' ' No, not enoughl; it cannot take away the grace of life, the comeliness of look Which virtue- gives; it ceannot lay its hand on thlese no more than it kin shoot aen' theExcerpt from Sheridan!nowless 'liam Tell." *-Excerpt from Sheridan Knowles's ,Winllam Mel.,   150 M'I           ROOKE; OR, I I don't see the force of the argu  "' When Freedom from her mounting height Unfurled her standard to the air, She tore the azoor robe of night, And set the stars of glory there.' "That's so! "But permit me to say--' "There's a fierce gray bird with a bendin' beak, With an angry eye and a startlin' shriek, That nurses her brood where the cliff flowers blow On the precipice top in perpetooal snow.' That air a fact!" "But slavery surely is ,  "' Stand! the ground's yer own, mer braves! Will ye give it up to slaves?' a grievous wrong and an infamous disgrace. A   stain which, until wiped out, will always disgrace your flag" -' Nail to the mast that tattered flag, Set every threadbare sail, And give her to the god of storms, The lightnin' and the gale!'" At some such point as this the Doctor would usually give up the argument, and the scene would conclude with a grand stump- speech from the florid Panghurn, by this time in a high state of patriotic fervor and poetic exaltation. It was not remarkable that so ingenious a politician should always adopt the plan sug- gested in the foregoing colloquy ; that is to say, the plan of be- coming lofty and obscure, not to say inconsequential, on getting into logical difficulties, or on being confronted with arguments he was unable or unwilling to refute. "The man's mad," the Doc- tor confidently assured me, " stark staring mad, and not worth talking to at all except in a professional way, to watch the pro- gress of the disease. Your half-educated Yankee is the most im- practicable of animals for believing in nothing he can't see, and trusting in nothing he doesn't understand. Look at that man, Railes; I firmly believe he thought my theodolite was a toy, until he saw we really got with it the difference of level between the river and the canon. TVat was something tangible, and I (    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         151 think you might now persuade him that the instrument could throw a cannon ball to the moon. This Editor of ours, with his Clarion and his Bedlamite spouting, is quite persuaded his coun- try could take the whole world in hand to-morrow, and parcel it out like another Roman Empire. Luck and security, sir, will be the ruin of your people if they don't have some big, bouncing piece of misfortune to teach them common sense." As I was of much the same way of thinking, the Doctor and I did not quarrel, although I had the pleasure of assisting at seve- ral of his encounters with his eccentric opponent. It may be well, before proceeding further, to explain how it was that I be- came personally interested in the diggings on Armstrong's Bar. The original object of my coming has been before mentioned as being that of determining the proper bounds and metes of a large tract of land, claimed under an ancient Spanish deed, whose holders had deputed me to act in their behalf. The data in my possession were such as to satisfy me very early respect- ing the extent of at least one boundary of the claim. This was on the river, and undoubtedly included the ground covered by the little settlement as well as theni niewly discovered gold-field in the interior. In the existing state of the country, however, a direct attempt to oust actual settlers was a critical and often an unsuccessful affair, and there were certain moot points to be re- solved as to title, which would make such an attempt a very un- wise one in this instance. This being the case, I did, as I thought, the safest thing for my principals, by first exhibiting the strength of their claim to the Armstrong company, and subsequently en- tering into an agreement with them to forego any proceedingfor the space of one year, subject to renewal, and without prejudice to the real or supposed rights of either party, on condition of re- ceiving a clear eighth of the gold they might gain from the soil. It was not without  some discussion that this conclusion was reached, nor altogether without pugnacious and litigious propo- sitions on the part, of Panghurn.  But as it was clear that the claimants I represented could put the company  to great incon- venience and expense, if not force them to desist working on the claim altogether, prudence overcame all other emotions, and the arrangement proposed was quietly adopted.   152         rrAPIAN ROOKE; OR, CHAPTER XI. IT was a soft, balmy evening in June, a ribbon or two of. fad- ing fire in the west showing where the sun had gone down, while in his place the moon was riding up the firmament in ma- jestic yet chastened "splendor. The day had been hot, and a light breeze which rustled about and scattered the delicate odor of blossoms whose parent vines clamberedraround the cabin, was all the more grateful for the close air which it disturbed. The same delicate odors which first told me that feminine cares must have been busy here, still survived the burning heat of the sun; for the river was close by, and the fingers which had planted, were careful to sust-[.in with daily refireshment the thirsty stran- gers which otherwise would have drooped and withered. Several of the party-and the Doctor and Hugh Gifford were among them-had been absent since early morning. They had set forth at daybreak for the saw-mill, somnle thirty miles off, and would return late at night. Work had gone on as usual in the canion, and those who remained behind, having finished their labor and partaken of their evening meal, were chatting and smoking and reckoning the gains of the day. Pretty Kitty was sitting at one end of the porch listening-I fear not unwillirig]y -to the uncouth worshippings of Dick Railes. Her mother was sitting quietly within, reading her Bible, the usual occupa- tion of her leisure moments. Ichabod was employed in elaborat- ing some new ornament for his capricious head-gear, and Lion lay near by gazing with solemn intentness on the last red coal of the pmouldering fire. As for Marian, she stood at the door looking up as intently at the radiant heavens, and wondering, as most of us so often wonder, whether those mysterious and innumerable orbs could be peopled by beings like ourselves. She was brought back to earth by a low, pleading voice; a voice which, notwithstanding its accent, was not without music; a voice, however, which, even had it been dissonant, might have grown melodious when laden with the fulness of the heart whence it came. The words were simple enough: w"You're not very busy, just now, Mary Anne?" "Busy! No, indeed, as idle as indolence and this lovely evening' can make me." "You wouldn't mind "-and the voice was very low, almost /    L?           THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        153 cautious-"- you wouldn't mlind walking a few steps with me on the river-bank-where-where you often walk with Mr. Gif- ford?r "Mind, Luke? Thank you, I shall be glad of a little stroll. Indeed, I was only thinking of going there just now. It is a favorite walk of mine." "I know it is." They walked gently. down the little lawn which trended to the stream, and turned into the path long worn smooth by foot- steps along its bank. The water swam along in flecks and patches of black and silver as the shadows fell or the moon- beams danced upon the tiny ripples. Higher and higher sailed the moon, and her light grew strongDer until it seemed almost like the light of day. Some minutes passed of turning and re- turning-for the slopes and the shrubbery made a promenade of a hundred yards or so most convenientand Luke spoke never a word. In truth, the poor fellow felt that he was somehow ap-- proaching the most momentous crisis of his life, and even the first accents whierein his thoughts should shape themselves into expression became of exaggerated importance. He was natu- rally shy, too, and a nervous feeling of self-depreciation, a - keener than common sense of his deficiencies, crept over him and added to his embarrassment. But he had watched sedu- lously for this opportunityv-watched for it with not a little of the cool, steadfast perseverance of his countrymen-and he must not let it slip by unimproved. The words came at last, but they' were slow and hesitating:. "I jest wanted to say a few words to you, Mary Anne." "Yes, Luke."        ' I wonder if any woman is ever altogether unconscious of the admiration she excites, that is, supposing her to be in daily con- tact with her admirer? It is doubtful; but if ever a woman was so unconscious, it was Marian now. Next her heart she carried a little Testament, which had been some months before the means of revealing Luke's secret to Hugh Gifford. Others might now and then have guessed it, albeit for an untutored Luke was not a demonstrative man. But of all who ever thought of such a thing, Marian herself would have been the last. Still, when a young man asks a young woman to a moonlight walk, and, after a preface of solemn silence, begins to unfold his mind in terms such as Luke set forth with, there are few over whom would not flash a suspicion of what was to follow.' Marian was not of the few; but she did not get her suspicion from what she remembered of Luke's words and tones in the past; it was ,   154        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, begotten of what she recalled of Hugh Gifford's looks and tones when they referred to Luke. As she thought of these, came another remark, or rather a question, which seemed somewhat irrelevant:- "Mary Anne, you're fond of sister Kitty, ain't you?" "What a question! Why, you know, Luke, she is my sister, too. She has been always kind, and considerate, anid affectionate. People who are left alone appreciate these things." "Left alone?" "Without friends-relatives, I mean. You know I am quite alone in the world."' "I knew you had no father or mother, Mary Anne," said Luke, gently.  "Neither father nor mother, sister nor brother ;, so that I think much of those who have made me half forget my loneli- ness. Of course I'm fond of Kitty. But then she is a good girl besides-a good daughter, dutiful and obedient-a girl of a fi'ank, cordial nature, which would make me love her for herself, even if she had not been so very kind to mne." "Then I s'pose, Mary Anne, if you saw Kitty in any kind of trouble, in any kind of danger, you'd try to help-to save her?"  "To be sure I should." "If you saw hei wanderin' along a bank all covered with things that was bright and beautiful-nice trees, and sparklin' " brooks, and tumblin' waterfalls,' full of singing birds and sweet smelling flowers, a place where she seemed to be happy as the day is long-you'd think it was kind o' sinful to disturb her there, wouldn't you?"         . "And so it would be," acquiesced the girl, half smiling at Luke's unwonted poetry. But if you knew that over agen' the bank-always yawnin, always threatening ready at any moment to swallow her up and destroy her, whenever chance or temptation should git her to make a single false step-if you knew that right agen' the bank was a deep, black, horrid precipice, which, if she went over it, would crush her, ruin her for ever, now and hereafter-then you'd think you'd oughter take the risk of givin' her pain to save the greater irisk of her destruction, wouldn't you, Mary Anne                 . "I should. I suppose most of us are at some time or another placed in a position where duty requires us to make such a choice. - But this is mere laughing, surely. Dear Kitty can be in no such straits. You surely do not mean---- " /   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       155 "I don't mean that Kitty is in any danger. What I meant was only in example-like-allygurry-what mother is so often quoting from Scriptur', takin' one person's case to try on to another. "And which of our little company is in a plight so critical?" "I don't know for certain, as any one is; but if I think SO ' "   " "If you think so, you would say, you ought to put them on their guard?" "That is jest what I would say." "And I quite agree with you." "You do?" "Perfectly." "But it ain't always easy to do such a thing. Even the kindest folks are sometimes hurt if one seems to meddle too much with their private affairs. It's hard to run the chance ot hurtin' anybody's feelin's." "No sensible person would be displeased at what must cer- tainly be seen to be kindly meant. It would be a duty to incur such a risk as well as the other." "You think so?" "Unquestionably." "I don't want to shrink from doin' a duty; and I think I'll hev' to do it." "There is, then, a person here in the position you describe?" "I said I only thought so, Mary Anne; and you said, if I thought so, I'd ought to put 'em on their guard." "Well?" "And I thought as much before; only I was glad to hear you say so, because the person " "Stop a moment, Luke. It may be quite correct that you should warn the person most interested, but it might not be al- together/iight that you should previously intrust the secret to another; you might be mistaken, and " "That's jest what I thought, that's jest what I hoped, Mary Anne; and that's the reason why I spoke first about it to you. Heaven knows if I was mistaken how happy 'twould make me!" "But how can I tell? "That's jest- it, Mary Anne; you are the only one who can tell." The only one who can tell!"  "Yes; because this loved one wanderin' on the bank, this un- suspectin' one who's yit' in such dreadful peril-as I think, mind-is---"    '                ,   156        MAtIAX ROOE; OR, "Well, this person is---" "This person is yc, Mary Anne." "Me!" cried Marian, in astonishmen.. It had been very, very difficult for Luke to get thus far. The separate clauses of the little artifice, whereby he had led up to the critical accusation, had cost him a world of doubt, bewilder- ment, and embarrassment. But having accomplished this deli- cate step-having crossed his Rubicon-he cast restraint to the winds, and said what he had to say with all the blunt manliness of which he was capable      - "I know there weren't a soul of us who crossed the plains fit for you to associate with except Hugh Gifford; I know he's eddicated and refined, and full of book learning and that you weren't brought up to mix with- poor farmin: folks like us. You was always thoughtful, and too good to let any one see you know'd such a thing; but it's true for all that. And I know that Mr. Gifford's got a gift of talk, and, when he likes, he can ' carry you away with him to Chiny, or to Europe, and put you in all kinds of beautiful places, and hang 'em round with all manner of enticin' and lovely colors! It was nateral you'd like his-company, and that he'd like yourn. But don't be angry, Mary Anne, if I say there might be danger both of you might learn to like it too well, when it's remembered he's an engaged man! There might be danger both of you would forget this, and both be sorry for it ever after Don't be hurt if I thought this was a precipice you might fall into; you have said yourself, you know, that no one could be displeased at what must be s een to be kindly meant!" Marian was taken very much by surprise. Her bosom heaved, and the rich color came and went in her face in a manner visi- ble even by the moonlight-in a manner which, to some, would have been conclusive evidenfce of deeper feeling than even the speaker's words would seem to imply. She was taken by sur- prise, and, as people often do in such cases, she spoke, when a pause occurred, in a mechanical sort of way, her thoughts the while busy within, her voice somewhat changed, and her face somewhat averted: Mr. Gifford and I are good friends-no more. You mean kindly, Luke, and I am not displeased. But it seems strange that neither your mother nor your sister should ever have alluded to a subject which, if it were so marked 'and obvious, women are usually first to mention." Ah, they could not see with my eyes!" "With your eyes, -Luke?"   ,9         'BETEE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.    15 "No; I can't keep back the words, if I choke in speakin them. They couldn't see ,with my eyes, Mary Anne;' ho p should they? They were fond of you. :and glad to, see you pleased and happy, and there an end. But H-loved you; and where they had no thought of danger I could see a hundred. I know, I'm sure, you can t, with your self respect and your learnin', go to fall in love with a man that's engaged! Why, he's the same as married! Wuss, perhaps, for theysay the first bloom of love is what is most wicked to steal. P'raps that's what makes  e feel as I do feel. Surely one woman's enough for one mat! We're not livin' among the Mormons, and" "Luke!"  "Forgive me! Think it unsaid, Mary Anne,-for I know I had no right to say it. For -you've told me, haven't you, that Mr. Gifford and you are good friends and nothin' more That's all I want to know-more'n I had a right to ask. See, Mary Anne. I know I'm dreadful low and mean, compared with what you are!  I know I ain't worthy of you. But I couldn't live nigh you, not within sound of yourvice, without bein' a better man ; I'm better for it even now. We're gettin' richer you know, Mary Afine; and we'll soon have a better house, and p'raps a piano and books, and you know you love this place! And you have neither father nor mother, nor sister nor brother, and you can have 'em all here-all, if you'll only say that you'll let us love and cherish you." Luke," said Maiman  in slow; measured, but sorrowful ac- cents,. "Luke-good, kind Luke, forget all that you hlave said to me this night. As to Mr. Gifford, I thought you knew, as your father and mother know, that I am going- going, almost directly, far away. It was never intended, vou know, never proposed, that I should stay here always .  only until other ar- rangements were made.   Those other arrangements are .made. I depart, therefore, now-almost immediately " "If you knew how I'd work-if you knew how I'd   slave- to please you, to make you happy; if you would onl tr-I know well you don't love me  now, but oh! don't, don' t hrow away the chance of a happy life-don't, I pray, I beseech you- without at least thinkin' over it a little; don't do what 'llI make me so, so very wretched!"  He   turned his handsome, sunny face toward Marian as he spoke, and she saw in the bright light how deep was the mean- ing of his words. The face was sunny no longer though, but very pale, the mouth was set, and the eyes were brimnmine with tears. 7*   158        MARIAN ROOKIEy oK, "iI must have been wrong," said Marian painfully "wrong  not to have seen or guessed something of this before. Indeed, indeed, Luke, what you propose can never be, If you would have me feel kindly towards you-if you would not drive me away from this roof, prematurely, in sorrow and in pain, never again, speak to me of this subject. I feel grateful-nay, more, I feel affectionate towards you for all your kindness, for even the service you thoughlt to render me to-night; but you must not- ideed you must not-ask more. As to the differences you speak oif they are nothing; but of love, such love as you would seek; I have none--none to bestow. Won't you let things go on in the same old way, Luke? Won't you let me think of you still as a brother?" He turned away from her as she ended, and the two walked up and down the river path several times in silence. Marian saw that Luke was struggling manfully with himself, and she said no more until he found words to reply: ' I "He is--will-be-no more than a good friend to you ." "No more!1 He is no more--no more can he ever be!" She held forth her hand as she spoke,- as if to close the con- versation with such a sign of friendship and of confidence;and Luke, bending low over her hand, for the first time kissed it; and he left, for the kiss he toolq the first tears he had shed since he was a little child.  (     . CHATPTER XII. THE weeks were flying swiftly by, and every one brought its share of th e yellow earth all were striving for. Each Saturday night, when they came together and unlocked and augmented tirtreasure, the iniers of Armstrong's Bar saw themselves gwing richerand r icher, while their fears of the canon " giving out" grewmore and more remote and feeble. There was talk now of building another flume, but stories were rife of diggings like these running short in the most sudden and mysterious man- ner, and the prudent plan of letting well enough alone was wisely adhered to. It is a strange circumstance, which those who have been in the golden lands will readily verify, that, although time seems to fly soswiftly in them, it always appears long in the retrospect. The excitement of unwanted gains, the novelty of the scenery, he excitement   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         159 the perpetual bustle, the omnipresence of that rosy, alluring figure of hope, make the hours glide fast no doubt; but why, when past, should they appear so long? Perhaps it is that the wealth procured is compared instinctively with the space con- sumned in its acquisition, and, reasoning from previous experi- ence, the mind extends that space to mnake it consistent with the parallels suggested by memory. When a man gets a thou- sand dollars in a week who never before earned more than that sum inll a year, he naturally feels that more than seven little days must surely have gone by in getting it. With our little party labor went on steadily, and no mischance occurred to interrupt or diminish its income. There were aching hearts on the Bar no doubt; but their pain did no t spring from the absence of gold, nor did it extend to the company at large. On the contrary, matters seemed to the others eminently buoyant and gay; and never in particular did Mr. Panghurn appear to better advantage. He laughed and joked and told grotesque Yankee stories from morn till dewy eve. Nothing could exceed the good spirits which our golden shower brought to the active editor. He even made friends with Ike and Lion; neither of whom were swift in vouchsafing theni confidence, and who had regarded Zelotes with protracted suspicion. For my part/! must say, in all honesty, that I never saw any one bear pros- perity so well. Some are made crusty, presuming, unsocial by the gifts of fortune; but the reverse was distinctly their effect upon the eccentric nature of Panghurn. The sweet breath of Spring had come and gone, the brightly beautiful June-a month so charming here-had been enjoyed, and had likewise fled, and we were far into July. It wag well for us we were so near a stream, for the season, always dry, pro- mised this summer to be parching in the extreme. The rains which had been so bountiful were sucked from the soil by the thirsty sun; the rivers slowly narrowed until there was scarcely water even in the mountain springs to feed their sluggish course. Our works, however, stood us in good stead; our supply of the precious fluid was exceptionally abundant; and we could look forward to the droughts of August and September without dis- may, for the doctor had invented and perfected an ingenious system of force pumps, which promised to keep the flume run- nzin-g when all other devices might haply fail. Marian was subjected to a heavy cross fire of entreaties to rescind her determination as the time fixed for her departure drew near. Luke said no more, for he had passed his word; yet there was now and then a pleading look in his saddened blue /               160         MARIAN ROOKE; ORS eyes, which told quite as much as his tongue could have possibly uttered. But his father, mother and- sister were by no means silent, for they plied the poor girl ceaselessly with objections to her going, and affectionate persuasions that she should remain. Such a thing was, however, quite out of the question. Marian saw plainly that after making all allowance for any peculiar animus in Luke's strictures touching her position with regard to Gifford, there was a residum of justice and propriety about them which made separation- quite essential to her self-respect. The situation had been a singular one, and, isolated as they were, it was easy to suggest excuses fog educated people who found pleasure in each other's society; but when once such a thing was marked enough to excite comment, it was time to bring it to a close. When the girl looked into her heart, too, and found how painful this impending close was like to be, she was more than ever persuaded of its strict necessity. Marian was impul- sive, truly, .but her nature was eminently conscientious. ' She had never yet, to her knowledge, wronged man or woman; and she would not begin by wronging Virginia Chester. As to Gifford himself, (he strove long and earnestly in his quiet, stubborn way, against'her departure. The idea of utter separation-a separation which was almost certain to be an eternal one-filled him with consternation and dismay. With- out contemplating any wrong to his affianced bride, he was yet bitterly averse to being parted from what was a continual tetlp- tation to commit it. He knew very well the force of this temp- tation; but he pushed it away from his immediate thouglits, and wished to glide on in the old course, that the coming months might be similar to the ones just passed. It is needless to say that he was more selfish than Marian; that is obvious enough; but his selfishness by no means went the length of dreaming to entrap her affections, situated as they both were. Hhe was too manly for that; but he thought they might continue in the way they had been indefinitely, without any assignable limit, and without the intervention of any disagreeable observation or ex- planation; and seeing no reason for her going, excepting that which she advanced, namely, her resolve to be independent and at work, he strove against it by every argument in his power. And so he might have continued to strive but for the altered demeanor of Luke. The alteration was not so marked as to excite any general comment; but Gifford knew in his heart of hearts that the kind-souled young rustic was Marian's secret worshipper. When he found Luke's laugh was becoming less fequent-when" he saw the broad smile which formerly lighted ,   -,:            THEI QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        : Luke's face replaced by an expression of patient sorrow, Hugh began to ask himnself mental questions, and was. not long ir guessing at something like the truth. Arrived at this, his wishe, experienced a radical change. tIe had no right to be jealous, and hle knew it. But he had a strange dread of the effect upon Marian s generous nature, which the sight of poor Luke's sim- ple distress might bring about.- Many a woman before her time had been melted by pity to concessions which would never have been wrought' by love; and fugh, with all his faults, was not coxcomb enough to suspect that there existed in himself an in- surmountable barrier to such a thing in the present instance. After awhile, therefore, he ceased to oppose her departure; and even spoke of it more than once as a desirable and neces- sary step in suoh a, way as by no means to please Marian her- self. She was truly grieved at the idea of her absence inflicting any pain upon Luke Armstrong; but she was far firom gratified to be taught that it could be. regarded with complacency by Hugh Gifford. Such an inconsistency told a tale unfavorable to her future peace, as she well knew ; but absence feels and con quers much, and Marian was not yet old enough to have learned to distrust its efficacy. She felt that it was high time she were gone, and believed she was glad that the hour of departure was so close at hand. The weeks had flown by, and the treasure-chest had filled and filled until it now contained a sum of more than eighty thousand dollars; and Gifford had for his share, as Marian reminded him more than the sum which John Chester had named as, in a manner; the price of his bride. Each Satiurday night the chest had been opened, and its contents exhibited and augmented, and it had been resolved that, as soon as they turned what Mr. Panghurn called the lucky corner of a hundred thousand dollars their hoard should be taken down to San Francisco, there to be deposited with some safe banking-house.  Indeed, such a step might have been most prudent before it had increased to its present proportions. But this happened to be a period when many bankers had stopped payment, and general distrust pre- vailed, even as to making what were called special deposits. On the other hand, gold robberies had been very few in the mines. It seemed a safer speculation to. try and rifle the gener- ous earth than one's neighbors; the former. cost no terrors save those of hard work, while the latter tempted the terribly sum- mary ones of Judge Lynch. The Rothschilds had lately sent an accredited agent to the city,'whose fame was now reaching across the sea, and it was   162        MARIAN ROOKE  OR, "determined that the capital of Armstrong's Bar might safely be intrusted to Mr. Davidson. "Another sech week as this,"' said Seth, one Saturday night, "and we'll send the stuff down the river." ".And another sech a six months, exulted Mr. Panghurn, "and we kin see a loomin' up the stun front block in Utiky, and the cottage on the what's-is-name, and book-learni', and the v'yage to Europe, and the old farm at Saybrook, and all the rest on't; includin' a wood roof instead of a cotting one, and Miss Armstrong's chiny!"  , "But I'm ateard," continued Seth, "I'm afeard about bein, too sanguine. , We air in luck, that's a fact; but luck like our'n is dreadful apt to break off short, as suddint as it begun. This week's been good, dreadfil good; but there's looks about the canon which I've heerd old miners tell on, when diggin's is nigh to giv' aout."  Show!" said Zelotes, uneasily. "D'ye think so, now?" "Sartain; therms looks; but then agin, looks is jest as like as not to be deceivin', and we came first to the river bank in- stead of the canon." "It's run in my head all along," remarked Dick Railcs, that we'd struck the likeliest part o' the place at the fast go off; but I didn't see no call to talk blue when we was doin' so well; and ' arter the Doctor's pintin' the th'odolite utip and down the gulch sech a heap o' times, I tho't it oughter fetch the gold there if anything would." "As to that," quoth the Doctor, " levelling rods may be bet- ter than divining ones, but they only teach us' the way to the gold, not the gold the way to us. I think myself that what we've taken so far has been in a sort of pocket, lower than the bed runs else-where. It is quite likely, then, that the spot may be the richest in the channel; but we can only tell when we try." These prognostications were agreeable to :none, but they ap- peared especially disquieting to Mr. Panghurn. "Not," he, said "but what it's easy enough to strike new leads; but when I've put folks on a good thing, I like folks to find it a good thing. Panghu's pride, if not his honor, bein' bound up in the issoo, it siles-his dander to hew it tech bottom. However," he added, reassuringly, ' there's been some 'cute things printed lately in the 'Frisky papers on all these pints, gulch, dry, sur- face diggin', and bar, and- even 'bout grindi-n'l the stuff out o' rotten-stun'; which latter seems a peert style o' gold-mnining. Now I've got to go down Monday or Tuesday to see 'bout the ' Mounting Clarion,' and stimerlate Eli S. some and I reckon          I *S.  sm an  rco   THE QUEST 'FOR FORTUNE.                   163 Ill jest keep on to 'Frisky and git posted on the new dodges; inasmuch as failin' wages is leaden servitors to dull delay, like- wise F ortin' allers helps them as helps theirselves. With this sage maxim and prophetic corollary, the editor of the Clarion betook himself to a seat in a distant cornerp where, with a flour barrel for a desk, he was in the habit of inditing what he termed editorial articles for the flourishing periodical he controlled. The Monday came and saw Mr. Panghurn safe on his way, at- tended by the good wishes of all, or nearly all; fo' if the truth must be told, there were a few of the party who could not over- come, and could scarcely conceal their aversion from the man. He had, however, taken great pains of late to make himself agreeable, and on the intervening Sunday before his departure he had made a successful bid for popularity with the ladies, by de- visin and carrying out a scheme for a quiet pic-nic at the canion, in order that they might see wad admire the romantic scenery which environed the spot whence so much wealth was flowing into the general coffers'. Andseach of the ladies had washed out a small portion of the precious metal, which Zelotes had insisted upon their keeping for themselves; and he capped the climax of his gallantry by riding clear back to the Bar, where Ike and Lion had remained in charge, to fetch Mrs. Armstrong's knit- ting, which she had forgotten, and was always uncomfortable to be long without.  Mr. Panghurn was gone then, bearing many good wishes, but he would bring them back in a few days, so that his departure  caused little sorrow. Not so as regarded the departure of Marian, an event which was to take place on the Monday next following.' Bitter were the lamentations of Kitty, who was thus to be deprived not only of a kind friend but of a teacher wh ro had been of inestimable service to her. Many were the re- monstrances of Mrs. Armstrong, who really loved Marian, and who was persuaded that men in San Francisco added to the usual criminal disregard of their sex to the claims of patchwork and chiny, the most shocking depravity that could be imagined; and that, more particularly witk reference to lovely and unpro- tected young women, they went about like roaring lions seeking what ithey might devour. Seth for his part grieved more than he cared to show' over the coming separation. Since the girl bhad aippeale9l to him at St. Louis for aid and protection, he had grown to feel more and more like a- father toward her; and to part from her now seemed like the snapping of a natural tie. Nothing could induce him to accept the money she strove to   164       , - MARLAN ROOKE; OR, force upon him in recompense for her long sojourn with the fam. ily; he pressed it back into her delicate hands, and holding them and it together betiveen his own horny palms, with a voice not quite steady, and an eye not quite undimmed, he inade Marianapromise to return should she not find a situation, or should she for any reason hereafter require a home. And Marian- and Hugh wandered for the last time among their favorite walks, up and down the path by the river, up to and all around the lovely little lake that lay perched among the hills. Again they sat on the velvet turf, and again gazed into the pla- cid waters, and watched the shadows of the silent trees. And once more did the girl breathe into her companion's unquiet and ' feverish spirit something of her own ; so much more lofty, so much more calm. It was well, perhaps, that all this was soon to end, for from the habit of giving and receiving comfort, strength, solace, grows something which, if not altogether love, becomes a more indispensable necessity. Strangely enough, during the first few days of that week the yield of gold from the cafnon grew smaller and smaller. For many weeks before, the days had ranged from thirty to fifty ounces and, during one week, had exceeded the latter average ; but now the return sank by nearly one-half, and on the Friday the miners brought home but ten ounces. On that evening- one of the three last AMarian was to spend at the Bar--Hugh had spoken again in his discontented -way about seeking his fortune elsewhere. "I shall be sorry to think of your leaving the Armstrongs," said Marian, ' now that I am going from among them." "You cannot suppose that the attractions here are increased -by your departure," ' replied :Gifiord, looking sadly out upon the river. "Nay, I wasn't thinking of myself, but of you. I don't think you quite fit to go among strangers." "Fit? I? who am naturally one of the most solitary of hu- man beings T" 'You are solitary when among others, perhaps; but there are few human beings, for all that, who need others more than you need them.' "Your riddle, Marian ."  Why, what is the whole story of your life as you have told it me, but the history of an unsatisfied cravingf for sympathy? You think yourself in love with solitude, only because your soul is out of tune with those around you; and you people the soli- tude with spirits more harmonious. Is it not so?"9   ' ;'iis. ^THE' QUEST FOR FORTUNE.           165 "C And will ever be, I fear," he answered gloomily. "You must make your future, Gifford," said Marian, earnestly, "and you will not do so by indulging in idle repinings; you can- not by such change your barren, whitewashed meeting-house into Westminster Abbey-a change which is a type, in a man- ner, of what were needed to satisfy you; nor can you meta- morphose those who surround you into idealized creatures who should minister to your intellectual requirements. But you can unlock the gates and overleap the barriers which separate you from these and more than these. You must exert, and that right resolutely, Will, Industry, Self-Denial; they will infallibly lead you to Strength, Usefulness, and Power." "Not without money, Marian. . We reason ever from opposite poles, I fear. You have looked upon a social condition alone where all who have any right to be ambitious are provided with wealth, as a matter of course, to begin with; I upon another. where all may be as ambitious as they will, but for whom the only goal-the 'sole qualification, without which you are nothing, -with which you are everything--is wealth to end with." "Get the gold to begin with, then, and press onward to some- thing nobler!" A mari is unfit for anything nobler who gets wealth by the means he must employ to get it, and after the time the getting it has cost; a gold-grubber among gold-grubbers, what is he fit for after? Is there any Lethean cup whereof he may'quaff and forget the sordid paths he has pursued, the foul companions he has consorted wlthal?  Can he even forego the habits which, mean and despicable as they generally are, must absolutely be acquired and practised, the armor offensive and defensive, with- out which he were at the mercy of the desperate throng with whollm I  must needs do battle?" "The picture is dark," said Marian with a sigh, " darker, I think, than it need be; it must be possible to pursue such paths, to lherd with such companions even, and yet keep the hands clean and the soul pure. T'he harder the task, the nobler the achievement."        '   Mortals can only do what mortals may," returned Hugh; "yet I know well, if Ilhaply glow to be a better and purer man than my early and bitter experience would fain have made me, to whom the merit will be justly due. But I. would speak of yourself, Marian-- a subject on wlE-ch we may agree no better, but whic is surely of more immediate interest. You are going to this new-born city-to San Francisco--to seek employment?" "Surely!"    {J{J        MARTAN ROOKE; OR, '"But you have no friends there, no single acquaintance even, to attest to your accomplishments, to vouch for your character!" "No; these are things which should spealk for themselves." "How can they in advanced People seeking governesses, or' teachers, alwcays ask evidence of capacity, references." "As to capacity, I can play, sing, speak French and Italian, or Sketch a little, and my employers can use their own eyes and ears to test my performances. References, truly, I have none, and I must endeavor to make my way without them." You will be exposed to unpleasantness, to insult, perhaps, with no one to befriend, no one to protect you [" "' Was I so exposed when I crossed the plains . Did I lack friends or protectors there?" ' Ah, that. was different. Different in circumstances, re- straints, common danger, family safeguards. You are going into a new world now." "I have no fears. They are our countrymen in San Fran- cisco; I do not fear them-not, at least, in a State like this. Besides, I may not remain there long. In a few weeks letters may reach me from Europe; and I may: go at once to the At- lantic coast." "And we-you and H-will never see each other again!" A slight shiver came over Marian at the words, but she tried to smile. "What a gloomy prophecy! Why should we note? The world is wide, to be sure, but we are both travellers, both wayfarers. Who shall say when we may not cross each other once more?" 'Marian," said the young man gravely, and with an icy em- phasis that was meant to cover a fire' which threatened to burst forth below, "Marian, you will promise, if you resolve to leave California, to write me-to that effect-before you are to sail?" "Write to you," repeated she in some embarrassment; then with a sudden thought--" it will not be necessary; I shall write, you know, to Kitty, to Mrs. Armstrong."  "( To me!" he persisted imploringly.            t "It would seem unusual," hesitated Marian, "( cause remark, i perhaps, and  "  "Your letter need not be directed here; it is not so much to ! ask. Besides, I may be far away from this: I shall let 'you know if I depart. Won't you do as much for me?'" "Enough; I will do as you wish; only such things some- times work mischief-through misconception and accident, I mean; and you in your turn must promise that, should I write, you will destroy my letter." :          , '    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        l7 "Willingly, gladly." And with such words, ending in such a pledge, the two wan- adered on their way, .each feeling, unbeknown to the other, what neither could rightly express; each yielding, in those last few days, to the inclination to be much with the other, and to in- dulge in trains of thought which constantly tempted to such ex- pression. It was well, indeed, that all this was so soon to end. Poor Luke often thouught se, for although he was quite incapable of watching their movements, he could not help noticing that Marian and Hugh were often absent, and at the same time. He thought, as most of us have thought, how hard it was that there should be such cross purposes in the world; he consoled him- self, as most of us have done, with the reflection that his imme- diate cause of suffering would soon pass away. A grievous sol- ace, when such a cause has become to the suffering soul the only source of joy. Saturday night had come again. A hot stifling night, with a thick air pushed sluggishy about now and then by puffs of a sirocco-like 'wind. The last Saturday night Marian was to be there, a circumstance which clearly had its effect on the spirits of the party, for they were sometimes jocular and sometimes' de. pressed. It seemed to be generally agreed that the occasion should be honored as a sort of complimentary festival at leave- taking, but the cheer had au air as of funeral baked meats, the old-fashioned provender which served as a recompense to those who came to share the gloom of a house of mourning ; and it prompted melancholy retrospects rather than happy auguries. Mr. Panghurn had not yet returned, which was not remarka- ble, since he had expressed his determination to go down to San Francisco.  Moreover, he might have had trouble with Eli S. Barlow', as he had signified his dissatisfaction with late numbers of the "AMountain Clarion," and intimateda suspicion that his dep- uty had been enjoying "a leetle tech of the horrors ;" which it appeared was the sole gratification which that otherwise exem- plary litterateur occasionally allowed himself. a Things don't look quite so bright as they did a week ago," said Seth as he stretched his limbs wearily, and wiped the per- spiration from his wrinkled brow. "The gold las fell off a sight," observed Dick Railes, by way of reply.  "I weren't .thinking of that," said Seth, 'I at least not then. We must taike the good with the bad, so fur's that goes. If the week haim t paid as well as some did two months balck, it's paid a hea  more'n many a week did afore we hreamt of gittin' a speck on't in the c ation."   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE. "That air Panghurn," pursued Dick, reflectively, "-is sharp- er'n a steel trap, he is. He allowed the color'd be thar, and it was thar. He reckoned it would kind o' whittle down, and it kind o' whittled down." It's the creature's instinct," grumbled the Doctor, -with ac- rimony; "he-finds gold as bears find honey, or as hogs find truffles. There's no more merit in it than belongs to a hound for his nose."  . "He is s'rewd," continued Dick, who appeared to be in a eu- logistic mood, " he is s'rewd, Panghurn is. Thar's nigh on to a hundred thousand witnesses in that air box which will allow that Panghurn is s'rewd." "I'm sure he's dreadful good-natered," remarked Mrs. Arm- strong, blinking over her spectacles firom the corner, " not for- gettin' him a totin' this very knittin' over to the pic-nic, it having slipped everybody's mind with the excitement of that cheerful gatherin'.g Likewise," continued the matron, glar- ing with ferocious meaning at Father, " he's the only man I ever see with idees wuth a ball o' yarn, touchin' patchwork and chiny!"  "He brought us some very pooty calico last time he come up," ventured Kitty, feeling called on to swell the chorus in praise of the absent one, " and some awful nice books!" "Do say very nice, Kitty, dear," whispered M]arian, whereat Kitty colored penitentially, bhaving been often told before. Whichever way you look at it," added Seth, in a manner suggesting that hhe had viewed the Subjectin every possible light, "whichever way you look at it, it can't be denied but we air be- hoven to Panghurn for our present fortin'." "And we should render unto CXesar the things which are Cesar's' said the Doctor. ,Agreed. Far be it from mne to derogate from his well-earned laurels. I only meant to imply that it was through the gift of nature, rather than by toilsome acquisition; that he gained them so readily. So all hail, Pang- burn, with all my heart-! "This is the last countin' you'll see, Mary Anne," said Seth, sorrowfully, "onless, which we all much hope, ye see fit to come back home among us once agin.' ' "Miss Rooke will soon yearn for country life," said the Doc- tor ; ,she willsoon tire of the feverish town,. which, from all ac- counts, is more like an infant Pandemnonium than anything else, and come back to the peace and quiet of the Bar." I have warned her what she has to expect," said Gifford; "but, like most4ladies, she must see for herself. She will at A-  *    .   .,   XI MARIAN ROOKE; OR,                G least find more of the comforts of civilization there, if few of its other blessings. This is hardly an establishment which presents attractions to any except such enforced gold-seekers as can hope for no better." "We're goin' to better of it soon," remarked Luke, humbly "and put up stables where the corral is, and storehouses in place ;A  0of the huts where the Irishmen lived." ,3"Arter two or three months more," added Seth, prudently, ar "ter two or three months more, whenwe was also thinkin' of puttin' up a wooden roof instead of a cotting one, with other modern improvements. But come, boys, fly round and git up . the chist. We must jest stow away what we've got, if it ain't such a mighty week's work. Hist out the chist, boys,/and Mother, fetch us out the keys." In their accustomed comer, over the trap-door, lay Lion and Ike, both of whom, having been fast alseep, seemed to think it highly unnecessary and absurd that they should be disturbed. However, they consented to give way, and the door having been raised, Luke and Dick Railes lifted the treasure-box firom  its place. It was set on the table as usual, and lMrs. Armstrong having brought the keys and the gains of the past week from a chest of drawers in the inner room, her husband unlocked the heavy padlock and opened the trunk. There lay the tin box, in the middle, with the v'arious little bags of nuggets and the curi- ous specimens of crystals and gold-bearing quartz arranged about its sides. Seth now proceeded to unlock the inner sanctuary, the tin box wherein the precious dust, the fruit of their accumulated months of labor, was every week deposited. There were six little bags of buckskin, each containing from ten to five-and- twenty ounces, which were now to be added to the capital store. But as the old man opened the box his jaw dropped, his eyes di- lated, aid he staggered back as if he had been shot. "Thunder and lightnin'!" exclaimed Luke, "what's the mat- ter, father?" "The gold!-the gold!" gasped  Seth, hoarsely; - where is the gold? , All rushed to the table, and every eye was riveted on the con- tents of the box. It was filled with pebbles firom the river-side of many a shape and hue, but none yellow, none gold. "The Devil!", 6 We've been robbed!" "Where is it?"    ' Shouted simultaneously the Doctor, Dick, and Luke Arm- 8 , 8   170       THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE. strong. The latter, with nervous haste, tore open bag after bag which had contained the nuggets. Every' one had been rifles, and the contents replaced like those of the box by worthless stones. Eagerly did Luke empty every bag, peer into every corner to find some trace or fragmnent of the missing treasure. All, all was gone! There was not even a sparkle, save from a few pieces of quartz which had evidently been thought too bulky to carry away.  "The box!-the box!" cried the Doctor; " emptythe box!" Luke did so, and with such haste and trepidation, that the mocldng pebbles rolled in every direction over the floor. "Nothing," said Luke, in despair, "nothing here." Yes there is!" exclaimed Dick ; " look there!" A paper had been lying on the very bottom of the box, and now fluttered to the ground. The Doctor stooped and snatched it up. As he opened it, writing was seen on the inside. ' Read it, Doctor, read it!" cried all, impatient for some clue, now they knew the extent of their misfortune. In a hoarse growl, and with many an interpolated execration, the Doctor did so. The paper was directed on the outside to "Kernui Seth Armstrong and Co.," and ran as follows :- FELLERIF CITIZENS, "By the time you git this I shall proberly be on the boundin' biller. In our great and glorious country events foi- lers each other in quick sucksession, and, wafted by ifavorin' gales, I shall naterally strike New York imimegiately after. "In takin' leave of scenes so charmin' which fond remem- brance my heart is warmin, I find it difficult to express the anx- ious hopes I cherish bfor your individooal and collective welfare. But all may be simmered down into one fervent aspiration, That you may be happy yit! "There is a tide in the affairs of men, feller citizens, which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortin'! and I've concluded to take this ere tide and Sail in! And as some on ye might think it kind o' prematoor that I take so much of my sheer to once, I hereby make over all the rest of my undivided interest in the Bar to you, Kumrel, for the benefit of the Co. "I hope Nobody won't 'feel Riled. Who steals my puss steals trash. 'Tis Somethin' nothink. 'Twas mine, 'tis his'n; and altho' the gold on the Bar haint been slave to thousands, Cash Circoolates rapidly in this Happy Land, so nothing exten- ooate or Set down Ought in malice. As to your repootations, you can leave 'em with confidence in the' hands of Panghurn, which not enricheth him, and makes you Poor Indeed.   ?          THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       }71 "I think the canon's about gin' aout. And it would be Small business in me to be a sharin' your toils, your feelin's, and your fame, when there ain't Nothink else to divide. But time Flies, and the Etarnal Ages rolls on. My Bark is by the shore, and sails on Wednesday at Twelve o'clock percisely. No Berth se- cured until paid for. "Farewell for ever! And yit, No. We shall meet agin, when the Mem'ry of these Scenes will be but as a Parson Bell, a Dream too sweet to last, when you shall Forgit the feverish thirst for gold in Karmer pursoots, and When the name of Pang- burn shall be proudly enrolled among the Merchant Princes of his country. h With affectionate complements to the ladies, "I am, "Feller Citizens, "Your'n, While This Mashine is To him. ' Z. PAXGBURN. a P S. I have ordered a copy of the "Mountain Clarion' to be sent to each of yer for 6 months, Postpaid. "P S. No. 2. I have entirely giv' up the idee of the stun- fiont block in Utiky." It was too true, and all was gone. Pursuit was idle, for the steamship taken by the plunderer had sailed on the Wednesday before. The dreams which had counted on this treasure as the foundation of fortune were all in a, moment dissipated. The fruit of six months' labor had been swept away, and the party at Armstrong's Bar were once again as poor as when they first had recourse to the Canon. END OF THE SECOND BOOK.\ + END OF THE SECOND BOOK.   172     MARIAN ROOKE; OR, BOOK     TtIE THRD.. CHAPIrER I. WHE the expectant voyager, whose prow has so many days been pointing northward, first makes the promised land of gold, his eye ranges vainly along the continuous wall of frowning cliffs in search of a hospitable opening, the gateway to that haven where his bark shall find shelter and himself rest. He sees far away to the eastward the soaring peaks of the Sierra Nevada; he sees, masking their base, the rugged contour of the Coast Range; he sees, still nearer, the ramparted bulwark which yet affords no passage. He sees much that is weird and uncommon in the prospect to stimulate his imagination and pique his Curiosity. The mountains have a height, a graceful- ness of outline, and yet a grandeur unmatched by the prosaic Atlantic shore. The sea itself grows ruddy near the land, and the atmosphere has a positive golden tint seldom seen on the colder coast of the east. These phenomena, niatural though they be, scarcely seem so to the gaze of the new-come adventurer. They seem, on the contrary, to be magical touches given to natural objects by unseen genii, to the end that visible nature may be in sympathy with the strange, romantic vicissitudes of the golden land; vicissitudes which mock all the experience of men elsewhere, and which, therefore, should fittingly be en-. circled by coloring and physical detail equally unprecedented. The adventurer sees all these things and( marvels. If he be sanguine, he accepts them as happy auguries, and his breast swells with hope; if superstitious, he may view them as adjuncts in a vast scheme of Satanic temptation, and his boSom may thrill with fear; but in either case those sentiments will be greatly leavened with impatience; he is on the coast of California in- deed, but he has not yet seen the Golden Gate. Far onward to the north-west, trend the lofty unbroken wall and the rugged hills of the Coast Range. Peak after peak of the *          X            , .    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.     ,   173 Sierras appears and vanishes in succession as the vessel rushes on. The sea grows ruddier, and the ahi more golden. The coast grows more distinct, until the eye discerns the point where wall and water meet. But there seems no space between wide enough to pitch even a tent upon; thereis nothing but a sombre precipice springing abruptly out of the sea to a height of several hundred feet, with scarce an aperture, a nook, or a plateau to break the uniformity or to temper the inhospitable aspect of the panorama. Suddenly, almost indeed with the quickness of light- ning, the cliff opens like a pair of flats in a gigantic theatre; opens with a rift as clean, as straight, and as perpendicular. The flats recede until they are near a mile apart, although the space appears but a span, and then stand like two towering sen- tinels guarding the pass thus rent asunder. They are the per-  tals of the Golden Gate, and beyond them is the Bay of San Francisco. Thus, at the very entrance of E1 Dorado, things come upon the beholder in the character of surprises. He is prepared at the outset to abandon all precedents, and to expect the unex- pected as a matter of ordinary routine. He is prepared to enter upon a new life, neither whose pleasures nor whose pains are suggested by the experience of the old. He is warned to forget all commonplace sequences, and to begin afresh in an atmosphere of paradoxes. This entrance seems a very speck-a mere needle's eye-to the vast and otherwise unbroken extent of the coast-wall. It is easy to see how earlier navigators ran by without discovering what is so comparatively minute and yet so signally important; for through this needle's eye, ships of the hugest tonnage may pass, and the combined navies of the world could float in safety on the magnificent bay within. To the right-that is to say, bearing away to the southward on passing through the Golden Gate-lies the city of San Fran- cisco.- This is now a stately metropolis, whose chief constituents are solid granite, marble, and other scarcely less perishable masonry. A month is a year in California, and a year a decade, when compared with the histories of other places; so that the ' changes wrought since 1850 may be reckoned as equivalent to those of a century and a half elsewhere. At that time a large proportion of the inhabitants were living under canvas. There were tents on the hills and tents in the valleys; so many were there, that, in conjunction with the countless shipping in the harbor, it was difficult to escape the idea that an army had dis- embarked, of which those vessels were the transports. A sinall   MARIAN ROOKE; OR loa town existed here prior to the discovery of gold in the upper country; a town chiefly built of adobe, disposed in one-storied dwellings, and devoted to a small trade in hides and tallow. There was also some attempt at military fortification on the point called the Presidio, and some religious buildings of more pretension at the Mission Dolores. But the slothful occupancy of the half-blooded race then in possession was next to none at all; and their edifices conveyed just such a notion. When the Americans first came pouring into the place, they pitched innumerable tents; and the tremendous northwest gales soon blew them away. Then they built wooden houses for a time; and almost as speedily they were reduced to ashes. Fi- nally they brought stone, iron, and brick sixteen thousand miles around Cape Horn, and built a town which promises to be more durable. These changes were progressive, like the means they adopted for winning the precious metal from the earth; first merely scratching up the particles wherever they could be seen to shine; secondly, the using of fluids, as water and quicksilver, to eliminate the gold from the dross; and finally, the crushing of solid rocks in powerful quartz mills, that Nature, even with such guards, should be coerced to yield up her treasure. Into the great Bay of San Francisco are discharged the vol- umes of several large streams which, rising in the mountains and swelled by many an auriferous affluent, find here the outlet they have long sought for to the sea. The greatest of these, the Sacramento, boasts also of the largest interior towns of the State to grace its banks; a just distinction it would appear, since on these banks the original discoveries of the gold were made. Like all rivers in California, the Sacramento is very unequal at different seasons. Low and placid in the dry season, it becomes an angiy freshet oftentimes in the wet. Not that there is just apprehension of a frequent recurrence of the great floods which devastated the valleys of the Sacramento and San Joaquin in December and January, 1861-2, and which destroyed the works of men to the value of millions of dollars; on the contrary, there appeared upon those occasions to be conclusive testimony in the ages of trees swept from the banks of those streams, as well as in other corroborative incidents, that no such catastrophe had occurred for several centuries before. But the Sacramento often overflows its banks in a more moderate way; and it did so on'one particular night a few months after the events which were described in the last chapters had transpired at Armstrong's Bar. It was a wild night, pitch dark, with rain falling in torrents, and a thick sulphurous smell in the atmosphere, as if it were   loaded with electricity which could find no other means for man-, ifesting itself to the senses. The river was roaring on its course, r  sometimes expanding into a lake whose shores would scarcely have been visible by daylight; sometimes plunging swiftly through a narrow defile where the banks were too lofty to be submerged. Down the stream a long black mass, dotted and :4?,- splashed with glaring lights, was flying with a speed which could not well have been exceeded had its track been ever so bright - and certain, instead of so dark and doubtful. This was the steamer "Capital," on her way from Sacramento to San Fran- cisco. How she contrived to steam in that way and yet meet no - mishap, it would be impossible to explain. It would have been equally hard to account for the apparently irreconcilable quali- ties of her commander. He was one of those singular persons, peculiar, I fancy, to America, who unite the capacity to be in a continual state of delirium tremens with another, to perform their various duties-often difficult and onerous ones-in a most thor- ough and efficient manner. No' one had ever known old Cap- tain Bracebridge to be sober; but no one, on the other hand, ever knew him to neglect his duty, to be absent on an emer- gency, however unexpected, or to have any disaster happen to his boat or machinery. It really seemed as if he must keep up a dual existence, one intelligence being riveted with sleepless watchfulness on the movements of the "Capital," and the other devoted, with unremitting industry, to "liquoring ' with almost every passenger that fleet vessel conveyed. The Captain was short, wiry, and active; indeed, although sixty years of age, he was, as he declared, "as spry as a catamount." He had bushy gray hair, and a keen, albeit rather watery eye of the same color; a hard, red face, and an habitually incoherent manner of speak- ing on all occasions save with respect to his steamer. Such was the person who had just succeeded in inveigling Dr. Landale to his cabin to "try something," in conformity with about his tenth invitation to that effect since tea-time. As to Hugh Gifford, he had positively declined, to the obvious wonder of the Captain, to take any more than a glass of the champagne wherewith the evening's felicities had commenced; and he was now left alone, or nearly so, in the large saloon, which, running almost the whole length of the vessel, served as sitting-room, dining-hall, and promenade all in one. They had left Sacramento that afternoon, so that there had been little opportunity to make acquaintance with fellow-passengers; but the Doctor had stum- bled upon an Englishman, an old friend, in that city, who hap- pened also to be a boon companion of Captain Biacebridge, and  1J I O       MALAJN RKUS j US , who had insisted on introducing them. With this exception, neither Hugh nor the Doctor knew any one on board. It was not then surprising, especially as, being twelve o'clock, he was rather sleepy, that Gifford as he sat resolving to retire to his state-room and to forget in sleep, if possible, the moody thoughts that mingled obscurely in his brain; it was not surpris- ing that he did not recognize or even notice a strange-looking person who was now approaching him. This was a lank, sinewy man with hollow cheeks, a sallow complexion, long, straggling black hair put behind his ears, a hawk-like profile and a particu- larly fierce expression, who had been hovering about the group before the Captain and the Doctor had gone to try something. He now proceeded to make his concentric rings narrower, re- garding Gifford all the time with an implacable regard quite formidable to behold. He came closer still, and seeing that Gifford was still staring at vacancy, the stranger put an enormous cowhide boot under the other's chair and kicked forth a vast spittoon, which he manceuvred into a position immediately in his front; he then dragged up a second chair, and straddling across it with the back toward his face, he proceeded to drop into the vessel previously adjusted a huge quid of tobacco. This done, and still scowling horribly, he produced a savage- looking clasp-knife, and cut a similar delectable morsel to replace the one rejected. These preparations finally attracted the atten- tioni of Gifford, who now looked at the man's face with a look of inquiry not unmixed with amusement, but which the man re- * ceived without changing his' expression or indeed moving a muscle of his iron countenance. Having glared in silence for full a minute, he spoke at last in a voice which seemed pumped up from the very bottom of his chest: "Be you a miller?" "Well," said Hugh smiling, "I suppose I am." "I've mined too," continued the man sternly, " some. But ' I'm more'n a miner. I'm a Pike, I am."  "A Pike?"                     ;! "A Pike and nothin' shorter. I was raised on hog and',. hominy, I was. I'm a hull team, I am. Likewise," he added after a short pause, and as if he had been in danger of making an important omission, "with a little yaller dog under the wagon." "I see," responded Hugh, scarcely knowing what to say, and yet perceiving,. from the impressive manner of his interlo- ciutor, that. some reply was expected. P'raps," continued the latter, holding his head on one side,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        1 7 and looking at Gifford with one eye, after the manner of an in- quiring parrot, "p'raps you've never heern tell of Layfayette Sloper?" The other admitted that he never had. , Wall," resumed the stranger, with an air of unabated de- fiance, "that air pack," pointing to a shapeless bundle not far off, enveloped in a pair of dingy red blankets secured by a strap, " that air pack is his'n." K Ah'" ,' Likewise this here buck-hag is his'n, and this here plug of tobacco, and this here deck o' keards, not forgettin' this here artful little tickler," producing a fearful bowie-knife, and strik- ing it into the table, where it stood quivering, -which are also the property of Layfayette Sloper." "I understand,"' Said Hugh, beginning to appreciate his com- panion's circumlocutory method of imparting information. You, then, are " "Not to put too fine a pint on to 't,". said the other severely, "Layfayette Sloper sits afore ye." Hugh said something in the way of congratulation, and added that he thought of going to bed. ,1, ed!" echoed Lafayette with a frown; "what in h d' ye want to go to bed for? We'll expostoolate a piece fust, I guess. Wharbouts hev you bin a mminin' ." "At a place called Armstrong's Bar." "I reckoned as much; I ciphered you come from the Bar and no whar's else." "Indeed?" "I heerd that there Britisher you're a travellin' with blowin' about it to th' old Cap; I know'd he was a Britisher by his curus lingo, and I set store on his words because I thought a spell of comin' ont' the Bar myself." How was that, pray?" "It bein   ' the fashion," explained Sloper, "for Pikes and hull teams, let alone little yaller dogs under the wagon, to keep their eyes skun, I'd bin prospectin for a slicker place than Wild Cat Caion; Wild Cat havin' been my previous location, and a pooty petikilarly gol darned bad one at that; so I puflled up stakes and was a hesitatin' as to whar they should he druv next when I see this." The speaker here drew forth an extremely dirty frag- ment of newspaper, and'invited Hugl's attention to a paragraph by pointing with a still dirtier long yellow claw. "I see this, I did, and I allowed thar was the place whar them stakes ought to be druv." *8.   178        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, The fragment was a portion of a San Francisco daily, some months old, and the paragraph which was indicated ran thus: "Among the passengers by the 'Sonora,' on Wednesday, was our distinguished fellow-citizen and brother of the quill, Colonel Hon. Zelotes Panghurn, of the 'Mountain Clarion.'   The talent, perseverance, and indomitable will of this enterprising pioneer, have been illustrated by many works of internal im- provement, more especially those at Armstrong's Bar, where,  it is said, he amassed a large fortune in a remarkably short space of time. The Colonel is a high-toned gentleman, and will do credit. to our State on the other side. On dit that he proceeds to Washington to claim at the hands of Government that reward to which his long and unflinching devotion to his party justly entitles him. Attila K. Scalpgitter may well tremble when he learns that this squints toward the Custom House, and we tell him boldly and fearlessly that it does." "So you thought of emulating Mr. Panghurn   did you?" Hugh asked, as he returned the paper, " and of also amassing a fortune in a remarkably short space of time?" 7"Well, I did that," answered Sloper, "likewise of goin' better and emoolating that there Scalpgitter out o' the Custom House. If I understand one thing better'n another," he con- tinued reflectively, " it's revenoo." "But has Mr. Scalpgitter behaved ill or in any manner de- served removal?" "He don't soot the people," said Lafayette, harshy, " and that's enough. He's jest chawed up all his popularity, and he ain't 'cute enough to lay in a fresh stock. One thing I heerd tell he did would have smashed up his political futur' in Pike whatever it does in Frisky." "And what may that have been?" "He put up a rail fence round his desk in the Custom House, he did, so that the citizens couldn't git close up to 't and look at the papers and see what he -was writin' of. No sech stuck-up ways as them goes down with our folks." "But if the man didn't want his private papers overlooked, or  "He was a servant of the people," interrupted Mr. Sloper acr- moniously, " and his papers was public papers, or they hadn't no call to be be thar. If he wanted to hev private papers he'd oughter resigned and  took to drink, or any other private pastime which sooted his voos. Fences was made for cattle and not for   4: y )- TTHE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.                 179 human critters; and to have gone and built a corral like that to keep out the citizens up to Pike, would hev jest skeared up the dod rottest row Scalpgitter or any other gitter ever heern tell of from the lips of sages. He'd hev had to make tracks, he would; and them tracks would hey had to be as spry and ily as greased lightnin'. But," he added, waving his hand as in dis- missal of the offensive subject, " whar's your pile?" "My pile? "The Hon. Kurnel Panghurn havin' toted off his pile, I in- quire whar's your'n ." At this, Gifford narrated briefly to his attentive listener the circumstances which preceded and attended Mr. Panghurn's de- parture. The processes whereby the ingenious editor had ob- taiued the confidence of the community, and the subsequent use he had made of it in abstracting the common capital, appeared to afford Mr. Sloper the most lively satisfaction. For, although nothing could induce him to smile, there was a delighted twinkle in his cavernous eyes, and a rolling of his quid firom side to side of his mouth, which were indicative of the most superlative pleasure it was in his nature to experience. And so he belted the hull pile?T" he queried, as Gifford con- cluded, amid these unconcealed expressions of sympathy and joy. Every penny of it." "Darn my sister's cat, then, if he ain't a screamer! a real contoomacious, highfalootin, ring-tailed top-sawyer, that's what he is! And what was all the rest on ye up to while the Kurnel was playin' this nice little game?" "Doing? Takling him for an honest man, I suppose." "Ye don't want no more pardners, do ye?"  "Why," replied Giffoird, laughing, I I fear the same oppor- tunities are unlikely to recur. The yield has been much less, on the average, since our loss; but we have also been much more vigilant. We resolved, too, that whenever we got up to a cer- tain small sum, for the future, it should be at once removed to a place of greater safety." That's what you and the Britisher is up to now?' Well, we are taking down a little dust-not much; but we have other business which takes us to the city." Lafayette eyed his companion for some time, in his morose way, and then asked: "Do ye sport some?" Sport?" repeated Hugh. Bq you a bucker agen Pharaoh? Air you a gay gambollier?   MARIAN ROOKE; OR, Hev you never fit the tiger 1 Hev you never tried to captur' the eagle-bird by chance?" Gifford was forced to confess his inexperience in these fascinat- ing mysteries. "I ain't no professed sport," continued Sloper, with some contempt, "although I kerry them keards. But I've had .my experience-I've seed the elephant, and I know his way. I begun feelin' of him on Spanish monte and roulette; and I finished off with Pharaoh and Draw-Poker; and I allow that Pharaoh and Draw-Poker was too many for me. They jest over-sized my pile and raked down; which was exactly the reason, stranger, that I didn't fetch up to Armstrong's Bar." Hugh felt a gratitude to those potent agencies which he did not feel called upon to express, but said he had always heard that it was eminently imprudent to attempt such games-against professional players. "Gen'rally speaking," said Sloper, "it are; but banks is bust sometimes, and I might be a buster as well as any other man." "But how," asked Gifford, " did these misfortunes interfere to prevent you from coming to the Bar?" "Why, I know'd you was a jint-stock, 'cause it said as much in, Kurnel Panghurn's paper, the 'Mounting Clarion;' and there was accaounts 'most every week of folks gittin' draw'd on for comin' theie and prospectin' vithout leave of the company; and havin' bucked away most all my pile, I'd never a dime to buy in; that's how. But I kin jest tell ye one thing, stranger, and I don't kear if you put it in when ye write to your friends, and that is, Pm bound to git even, I am. That's what I'm goin' to Frisky for. They've beat me in the diggins, but I'll clean 'em in the taown, as sure as I come from Pike Caounty. I haint got more'n two slugs to go in with, but if I don't make my everlastin' fortin out on 'em, my name ain't Sloper nor yit Layfayette. Im goin' down to that thar burg, stranger, to real- ize; and gol darn my preternatooral pictur if I don't realize or die!" With these sentiments, delivered with an air of unspeakable ferocity, Mr. Sloper replaced his bowie knife. and gloomily de- manded that Gifford should descend with him to the bar, and liquor-a demand which, as it seemed to be enforced by a tacit alternative of immediate death, was prudently complied with. So they went down by gangways which were streaming with water, and all groaning and shivering with the force of the wind and the strain of the engine, and passed by the great   181   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.   throbbing engine in its lurid home, with the black figures of tenders and coal-passers, looking like ministering fiends in the crimson glare, and thus into the bar. When they got there it became obvious enough why the up- per portions of the boat were comparatively deserted; for the room was crowded, almost to suffocation, with miners, and tra- ders, and lawyers, and " sports"--four classes which predomina- ted over all others at this season in California, and were mis- chievous, as a rule, in the inverse order of their enumeration. There were a good many people who looked like Mr. Sloper, that is, with hawk faces, deep-set eyes, and hair behind ears, high sombreros, red flannel shirts, and long cowhide boots. There were a good many who looked like Mr. Panghurn; that is, with very greedy faces, goatees on their chins, beaver hats, and black suits from head to foot. The " sports" were distinguished by the superior richness and cut of their garments, and by wearing a profusion of (reaD jewelry; they were more distinguished still by a sobriety quite remarkable among so many hard drink- ers; it was incompatible with successful business to get drunk. Through the uproarious crowd Gifford and his new acquaintance elbowed their way to the spot where an urbane gentleman, with glossy black curls, immaculate linen, and a diamond breastpin, which could not have cost less than five hundred dollars, was dis- pensing 'drinks" to the vociferous and eager customers, who kept him, nothing loath, in a continual state of activity. Mr. Sloper took a rum-and-brandy punch, strong, and Gifford, to be consistent with what he had taken earlier, took a glass of champagne, for that attractive effervescent could be had at the bar for the same price with other, even the most common bever- ages, no more no less; twenty-five cents being the charge for a glass, let the liquor be what it might. In this choice retreat there roared a very cataract of sound. There was the constant monotonous rush of the vessel through the water for an undertone; abbve this the intermittent heaves and throes of the machinery ; and higher still the crash and jin- gle of an hundred shouting voices in half a dozen different lan- guages; for England, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, 'and Chi- na had representatives there, as well as Yankee land. Then there was the clinking of dollars from a couple of monte tables to add to that of the glasses at the bar ; for gambling was openly practised on board steamers as well as elsewhere at this period; and, to crown all. a vocal concert was in progress in one corner, an agonizing stave being just then in favor, the refrain of which appeared to be:  182         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, Blow on, blow on, we love the h-a-o-wling Of winds that waft us o'er the sea!" etc., ad {D. The noise, the smoke, and the unsavory peculiarities of many of his neighbors led Hugh to beat a retreat as soon as fie felt he could do so without giving mortal offence to Mr. Sloper, and so subject himself to the chance of being " ripped" by that stern patriot, whom he left atlast engaged in a discussion with a long Kentuckian on some technical point in "Draw-Poker:" Hugh went to his state-room, an apartment shared with the Doctor, and found that that gentleman was still detained in the hospitable toils of Captain Bracebridge. He would have locked the door as fearing another attack from Lafayette, who might not unreasonably be expected to become heated with drink and elo- quence below; but he must needs leave firee ingress for his com- panion; so he prepared to stretch himself on his narrow pallet without that precaution. Before doing so, however, Hugh drew forth, smoothed, and read over two letters which he had received during the week just passed. The one which had come the greatest distance bore a Massachusetts postmark, and its contents were these :- "East Canaan, Mass., July 20th, 1851. "DEAR HUGH,- "It seems ever so long since you went away, especially when we think that people make fortunes so quick in California. And I hope you will makbi yours right away, and come home, for Pa seems a little set against your being so ' dreadful careless,' as he says you must have been to lose all that beautiful money you had saved up. He thinks he knows some of the Panghurns, and says they are all smart, and sure to turn out rich. Pamelia  Staples has married very well off, and his name is Cuticle S. Flip, with quite a large practice, and I admire to see the chaise they come to church in on Sundays, though he is sometimes called out during service. Pa frets about the mortgage, and--I wouldn't say it to any one but you-I think he drinks some because the Pennifeathers have a new roof to their barn, and sold, their first hay at eighteen-fifty, heonlygettingeighteen-twenty-five. Ifor- got to say that Isabel Tarbox-,-you remember a black-eyed girl (not a very nice complexion) you thought pretty? Well, she is mar- ried down at Boston, Pa says, to a very good thing in fish. People here seem to speak rather coldly about you, I don't know why, which is very wicked of them. But they act as thofagh folks who are away must always be doing something wrong, and   .  THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        183 deserve to be systemically run down, unless they come back quick with a great deal of money. This aggravates me pretty badly, but perhaps, dear Hugh, it was a little careless to lose all that money, and when I see the Cuticle Flips with that change- able silk and real ostriches in fahorse and chaise, sometimes am foolish enough to repir3 at the hardness of fortune. Which re- minds me of our minister's new house, and what he said about you when we called there. The house is beautiful being an ex- act model of the Parthenon, furnished with the most lovely rose- wood piano, and everything Turkey in the chambers, and Brus- sels in the parlors. It is already known as the Pride of Canaan, presented by his affectionate parishioners to Rev. Pastile F. Bau- bee. I wouldn't think of writing what he said about you, but I liave suspected Pa some of putting Mr. Baubee up to it, know- ing his words always fall with Weight, and besides, I do not like to keep any secrets from you during the present understanding. What he said was that, considering your antecedents and youth- ful atmosphere-the old leaven brought by your Pa firom a sinful and unenlightened soil-and the physiological consequences which the Calm Eye of science could predict of such conditions, that you were likely to turn out illy. That in a general way he feared you was a brand whom it wouldn't pay to try and pluck. from the burning. Andthis idea that you won't pay seems to be running in Pa's head ever'since. So I do trust, dear Hugh, anx- ious as I am to reconcile our hopes with filial devotion, that you will ere long, by some means or other, make up for the past, and silence calumny by ample provision for the future. I am quite sure that there's nothing for silencing the world like being inde- pendent of it, and folks in Canaan now appear to be quite agreed ' on te subject of substantial property. I told brother John what Mr. Baubee said about you, and he said, Les absens sent toujours torts,' and that he was an old jackass; but it is right to add that I don;t think this fairly represents current opinion in Canaan. We are to have a visitor next week-young Mr. Gaycow, who speculated heavily last fall for a rise in groceries; he had a store, you know, at Canaan Centre, and since then has made a great deal of money in tasks, and has bought a factory with very efficient water power at Persepolis, N. Y. Well, he is coming home to buy property, and Pa would insist on his staying with us during his sojourn, which is therefore agreed, and I am to have a new changeable silk, purple in one light, and gold in an- other, like Mrs. Flip's. Ah, Hugh, I hope it will not be faded by the time you get back. But it's quite true they don't wear as well as black. Pray, dear Hugh, take care of your precious   184         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, health, and the gold you may be fortunate enough to dig here- after, for the sake of "Your affectionate but anxious, "VIRGINIA. "3N B.-We hear a good deal of 'specimens.' If you were to send some nice, rich ones, directed to Pa, I think it would have a good effect.-V." Hugh's other letter was much briefer, and ran as follows:- 1"San Francisco, Oct. 20th, 1851. "MY FRIEND,- "Although I think it had been better otherwise, I must yet keep my promise, and tell you that I am to sail by the ' Gold- ep Age' next Wednesday, for New York.     "M R." Gifford read these missives and re-read them, and then com- pared the writings in a mechanical sort of way; and then he heaved a great sigh, and put them away again in the pocket whence they came. Then he lay down in his berth for a while, and dreamed strange dreams, wherein Marian came and smiled sweetly upon him, and Mr. Sloper came and danced madly up and down with Cuticle S. Flip. From these uneasy slumbers he was roused now and again by, bacchanalian shouts and the harsh yell of the people who loved the h-a-o-wling of winds that blew them o'er the sea. And then the Doctor came in very late and rather unsteady, and not quite so decorous generally as was his wont; whence ensued some discussion of the relative merits as boon companions of the Captain and Sloper. Finally, not even the incessant Babel of noises, and not even the jerks and thumps, which gave the idea that the steamer was crashing through a submarine forest, could keep High' awake longer, and he fell into a heavy sleep. When he awoke, the sun was pouring a flood of yellow light through the state-room, and he looked forth from the window, and saw for the first time the far-famed golden city.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        18 CHAPTER II. To meet a man dressed in broadcloth and fine linen, laying down the law to listening potentates of trade, and who on in- spection is remembered as an Irish cab driver in the city of New York-to find in another, who handearts your luggage to the hotel, a man of Cambridge who sweetens brokerage with Greek quotations-to recognize in the voluble auctioneer on a corner, the former occupant of a not obscure pulpit-to see half the business population of a commercial town thronging to gam- bling tables in open day-to read names on election papers posted as candidates1for high offices, which belong to people who ran away defaulters and disgraced from their homes in the East-all these, and many more kindred peculiarities may be admitted to be well calculated to strike a new-comer with interest and aston- ishment. With these and many more such extraordinary things were all of us familiar who were in San Francisco in 1850. Since then the city has crept up and covered many a slope which at that time was bare. Since then the tents of Happy Valley have been superseded by solid masonry. Since then what was most suggestive of a huge gipsy encampment has become suggestive of, the early vigor of Carthage or of Tyre. Gambling has ceased in the high places, and the gamblers are no longer the magnates of the land.  Women are in a greater ratio than as one to fifty of the population-a propor- tion which then unfortunately existed; and such a thing as a baby is not followed about the town as a natural cuiriosity. I suppose a sudden fusilade of pistol-shots is a more uncommon and startling thing there now than it was then; albeit we were lately told of a wonderful desperado who managed to kill five assailants who set upon him in the comfortable old-fashioned way in the public streets; an incident which appeared to revive in the newspapers of the place quite touching and sentimental re- minicences. Those merry days are gone when excitable gentlemen used to waylay and shoot each other down at corners, or when-as they were said to have done at Vallecitos-the playful fellows would rush out from gambling houses at midnight and fire promiscuous volleys up and down the streets, from mere speculative motives }to see what they might hit. The times when you could go up to   186        MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, Xthe Plaza of an evening, feeling certain if your spirits ware lan- guid of having them quickened and refieshed by the spectacle of a rattling " knock-down and drag-out fight," which would even be among the tamest and most ordinary episodes of nightly amusements, have doubtless vanished ;--those small hours when governors, and senators, and great lawyers, and leading bankers mingled graciously with blacklegs, pugilists, and " fancy men," and staked their salaries their retainers, and the'ir depositors' for- tunes, if not their owrn, upon the chances of faro: have gone, I suppose, to return no more. The promising epoch when Irish ward politicians-the dregs of the dregs of the great Atlantic towns-with Australian ticket- of-leave men and a sprinkliing of Western border ruffians, dom- inated San Francisco, and fostered social conditions against which decent men, in self-defence, at last took the law in their own hands by organizing the Vigilance Committee, has been re- placed by another less variant to civilization. This committee, which was a sort of Wittenagemote or mass meeting of Judge Lynches, was one of those unlawful organizations for a good end which the intriguing, the turbulent, and the debauched al- ways denounce most bitterly on the score of their technical ille- gality, for the excellent reason that their own excesses could never have been checked by any better' authorized machinery that existed. The Vigilance Committee, like other agencies which could be named, was distinctly unconstitutional and as distinctly necessary, not for the purgation alone, but for the ab- solute existence of the community. It put an end to gross abuses by radical measures, indicated the way to prepare for a healthy future, did its work thoroughly, and then, unlike some other revolutionary committees we all wot of, by its own volun- tary act and motion disappeared. But in 1850 all those choice and eccentric spirits, who were destined to be so cruelly interfered with, exported, suspended, or restrained, were in high feather, and exerted full sway in the land of gold. , So far were they friom being ashamed of them- selves, that, with a pride which often goeth before a fall, they vaunted and glorified their misdeeds before the common gaze; which, as many of them were in official stations, they could more readily do. It is evident from the reaction which they provoked that the social elements were by no means all bad. On the contrary, they included much that was honorable, high- minded, enterprising, and progressive. San Francisco was 'u sample pattern, in which were woven and interwoven threads of gold and of dross-a specimen which exhibited in little all   I , ;M -'            THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         187 that is brightest and best, and all that is basest and worst in American society. But it is only fair to say that nearly all the latter constituents were, as they usually are, palpably and imme- diately of European origin. It seems to be in the nature of things that these inevitable immigrants, much as they always hate the -Old World, should be as troublesome in their changed situation as if they equally hated the New. California, I have said, was a land of surprises; and it was a curious study to see how anomalies in character-unexpected and unaccountable warps one way or the other-seemed to be produced or reacted by strange things, physical and material. It was "curious to see blood relations, one of whom came sud- denly into the possession of wealth beyond his wildest dreams, refuse the other money to buy food or shelter; curious, in an- other similar case, to see the lucky adventurer insist upon shar- ing dollar for dollar with his less fortunate brother. It was in- structive to see starchy, cast-iron men, who had been deacons of New England churches may be, plunging frantically into the most reckless dissipation in San Francisco; instructive to see those artful persons, who used to dodge circumspectly up tortu- ous alleys where drink is sold on the sly in Puritanic Boston, fearful lest any critical eye should track their devious steps, now drinking, and swaggering and cursing, full in the public view, amid the blaze of full noon; instructive to see 'scholars turned cartmen, divines turned hawkers, gamblers made judges, and ploughmen transformed into millionaires. But Hugh Gifford thought little of these things, however he might ordinarily have appreciated their teachings. He was in the same town with Marian i breathing the same air, seeing the same sights, treading the same streets which she might daily tread; and all that he saw and heard was as nothing for its own sake, and only interesting as associated with this absorbing thought. Was he in love with her then, and had his heart al- together turned traitor to Virginia? He did not think so; at least not always, although there were certainly times when his brow would knit and his breast grow cold as he read, in almost every line of her letters, how the glorification of lucre, and the pitiful standards of those who surrounded the girl, had grown into and debased a soul which might naturally have been a gen- erous one. But at such times, and on the heels of such reflec- tions, he would ask himself what right, of all others, he had to contemn Virginia for the love of money. Was it not the master passion, the engrossing desire of his own soul to make himself, by some means or another, rich? Did he not comnie to Califor-   188         MARIAN ROOKE; OR  . nia with that passion, that desire, paramount as the end-all, if not altogether the be-all, of his aspirations? How unworthy, then, to blame Virginia for at most sympathizing with what she. knew to occupy so large a place in his thoughts. It must be unworthy,it must be unjust; and yet why did he find himself continually indulging in such covert censure? He often asked himself the question. But it did not occur to him, introspect- ive as was his nature, that the reason lay in the fact that he had changed. and she had not And Marian, who had wrought this change in all honor and purity of intention, so far as wishing the young man to set up for himself higher standards, to aim at a loftier ambition; Ma- rian, who had earnestly hoped to be instrumental in forwarding Virginia's happiness through elevating the character of her affi- anced, had unwittingly done mote than she had proposed; more than would have sufficed, had she gained a premonitory glimpse of it, to have made her flee away from Armstrong's Bar long before she did so. For Marian's self-respect, unconventional though she, might be, was of that nice and delicate character which shrinks firom the bare suspicion of a taint, which cannot continue what it is, and yet permit its owner, by any possibil- ity, to find a pleasure through another's pain. No ; she had no mistrust, not the faintest, that she was doing any wrong to Vir- ginia by the alienation of Gifford's feelings. There were two strong bars against the passage of such a suspicion; the one was her own remarkable freedom from personal vanity, the other the self-contained and reserved nature of Gifford 'himself. For my part-familiar as I am and have been with all the cir- cumstances-I am afraid that, with the usual perversity of hu- manity, Gifford fell in love with Marian on the same night that he saw poor Luke put her little Testament over against his heart. I do not like Hugh any the better for the thought; and yet why should we be uncharitable, if love really is, as they say, so despotic that the feelings of those he rules are absolutely in- voluntary? But acts may be controlled, I am informed, if feel- ings cannot be; and it was just their acts that both Hugh and Marian, each unbeknown to the other, had been stoutly control- ling.                          i Marian left the Bar on the Monday which followed that dole- ful Saturday night when the robbery was discovered which made her friends all poor again. After the first outhurst of indigna- tion and disappointment, the miners had come to the only sen- sible determination which seemed open to them; that is to say, to go quietly to work and retrieve their loss. As has been seen,   ' i *         '     X               - vs.:      THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        189 pursuit was useless; so for the present, at least, the ingenious Panghurn was left to the undisturbed enjoyment of his ill-gotten gains. To prove a case in the Atlantic States would have in- volved great expense and difficulty, even supposiig the culprit were apprehended there. But if he had eschewed Utica, as he declared his intention of doing, who should tell in what Troy, Athens, Thebes, Rome, or Paradise Centre, the erring steps of the despoiler were to be traced? Even the method of the 'burglary remained a mystery; for although poor Ichabod confessed the device whereby he had been induced to quit the cabin for a space long enough to cany it out, no one except -the perpetrator could explain its details; which, moreover, were held to be of little consequence since the deed was done, unless to teach the propriety of greater caution for the future. Marian went to the town, and a few days afterward I followed her thither. Urgent business obliged my presence in San Fran- cisco, but, in truth, I had grown weary of mining; and in leav- ing had made arrangements to provide a substitute who should supply my place upon the same terms. It was my hope to have been of some service to Marian in finding her a position as gov- erness or teacher, such as I knew she desired to procure. But on arriving I learned that the service was unnecessary; she had already obtained a situation in a French family, where her know- ledge of the language was of peculiar advantage. There were three children, all girls, to supervise; the mother being an in- valid, and the father, a quiet, sagacious Lyonnaise of fifty, the only one of the family who spoke English. The conditions of demand and supply in the San Franciscan market for competent governesses who could speak French were fortunately such as to preclude the necessity for references ; and as the engagement was only from month to month--to enable Marian to depart when she might hear from her European correspondent-all par- ties were well satisfied. Marian had kept her word' as to acquainting Hugh with the time of her departure, and he could not resist coming to bid her farewell. There were, as we have seen, other excuses for his coming: gold to be brought down to bank, purchases to be made for. the colony-reasons enough for the journey; but it is certain some one else would have been the Doctor's companion had it not been for the all-important one. Not but Gifford was rather partial to the former's society, and, since Marian's, depart- ure, sought it more frequently than that of any one else; but it was not necessary to come to San Francisco in order& to enjoy it.   190        MARIAN ROOK ; OR, It was on a Sunday morning that they arrived, but the shops were open, the gamblers in fall blast, and few, indeed, if any, of the signs could be seen usual in Christian communities as mark- ing the day of rest. His companion went at once to procure some dlrugs and chemicals he required, and Hugh made his way to the residence of M. Bellot; rather a distinguished mansion in the upper part of the town, with some attempt at flowers and shrubbery about it. As the site of San Francisco then consisted almost exclusively of shifting sandhills, these surroundings of themselves gave the house an ah' of distinction; and when Hugh passed through the gate and ascended the steps leading to the hall-door, the perfume of some creeping shrubs, being like oth- ers at'Armstrong's Bar, reminded him so forcibly of Marian that his breath came short, and his hand shook a little as he rang for admittance. The bell-for knockers were as rare in San Pran- cisco as in most American towns-sounded sharply through the house, and gave a presage of emptiness which, so far as the vis- itor's hopes were concerned, was destined to be fulfilled. Miss Rooke had gone with the three demoiselles to Oakland, in Con- tracosta. M. Bellot had a brother there, and all the family ex- cept Madame had gone on Saturday to be present at a sort of fate which was partly complimentary to Miss Rooke, who was so soon to depart to their great regret; and they were expected to return to-morrow. With this unwelcome intelligence Hugh turned away, and, woefully disappointed, retraced his steps into the heart of the city. He wandered listlessly down into the open space which the first new-comers among the Anglo-Americans had essayed to change from "The Plaza " into "Portsmouth Square," but-a notable instance of the refusal of an ancient cognomen to give place to a new and foreign one-unsuccessfully. For people would call the spot "The Plaza " in 1850, and although it then was, as it may still be, known on the city maps as "Portsmouth Square," it got the name nowhere else. This "Plaza,"9 then, formerly en- closed-by one-storied houses of adobe, several of which, in the days we write of, still remained, was now enriched by buildings of a remarkable and unique style of architecture. The materi- als were chiefly pine boards and cotton canvas, the dimensions very large, and the general exterior effect, save in the matter of size, not over imposing. The facades consisted almost entirely of doors surmounted by painted signs, such as "El Dorado," "Bella Union," &c., being the names whereby the respective proprietors wished the'ir establishments to beknown. Inside of these establishments was seen one- vast hall, the area being usu-   I        -:  THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        191 ally left unpartitioned. But although there was little color or re- lief for the eye in the signs and flags which alone broke the mo- notonous white of their outsides, the interiors of these strange edifices were far different, and by no means open to such a re- proach. Here were enormous milrors covering the walls on all sides only alternating now and then with huge oil paintings of high colors and equivocal subjects. Cut-glass chandeliers which, at night, gave the light of day, shimmelled and glittered in ev- ery direction. On one side ran a long counter or bar, where numbers of attendants were constantly engaged; while behind them were piled glasses, and decanters, and bottles, and pitch- ers of all imaginable shapes and hues. These sparkling objects, reflected by mirrors behind them added to the general brilliancy of the scene, while hundreds of figures moving restlessly about, many of them wearing the then predominant red flannel shirt as an outer garment, with slouched hats and long boots, with here and there the gaudy Mexican serape, gave an effect truly sur- prising to an eye accustomed only to the more common sights of modern civilization. For the rest, the hall was filled with gaming-tables; tables of ,all shapes and sizes for all sorts of games; tables for faro, tables for monte, tables for roulette, tables for vingt-et-un, tables for rouge-et-noir; tables where the dealers were Americans, Eng- lishmen, Mexicans, Frenchmen, Jews, and women-few, hap- pily, of the latter-indiscriminately mixed, all cool and industri- ous, and all well patronized. Into such a pandemonium did Hugh Gifford find his way, staring at the sights, confused by the sounds, and instinctively comparing each with the sober-looking people and the quiet church bells, wherewith the Sabbath morning was associated in all his past memories. What an extraordinary society--what extraordinary habits-had the gold discovery all of a sudden conjured up, as dragon's teeth brought from the earth armed men Every moment men came trooping in, evidently-fiesh from the mines, their faces worn with toil and exposure, their gar- ments dirt-stained and often in fragments, and who went straight to the faro table, staked their bag of precious dust on the turn of a single card, lost or won with the same imperturbability, and stalked out again. It was not customary at this time to ex- amiine the contents of such bags; that would have taken too rnluch timn, and hurt the business by suggesting a Suspicion per- haps of the integrity of the owner. The card was turned, and, if the bank lost, the dust was promptly weighed, and its equiva- lent handed over in kind or in gold coin ; if the bank won, the   192        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, bag-was callously, and generally without inspection, cast in among the rouleux and loose treasure of the concern, which were contained in a box within easy ireach of the dealer. Many sat at the tables from morning till night, now winning, now los- ing, but in either case unwilling or unable to tear themselves away from the fascination. These people were commonly very taci- turn; indeed, any audible expression of feeling respecting the play was unusual; so that, with the exception of an occasional Spanish -oath and the unceasing chink of coin and shuffling of cards, the vicinage of the tables was comparatively quiet. Not so, however, the bar, where there was an endless roar of shoutings, cursings, and boisterous recognitions. Men were con- tinually meeting for the first time since separating in " the States," and signalizing the occasion as if firom the deck of a ship. Po- litical talk, firiendly talk, gambling talk, and drunken talk unit- ed in the charming medley, and swelled its discordant climax to the very echo. Among those who were the loudest, the biggest, and perhaps the tipsiest of the most conspicuous group in the sa- loon, Gifford remarked a red man, with a round face and golden hair which stuck in shreds and patches to his perspiring forehead. He wore a white hat, which was pushed far back, and a huge diamond sun in his bosom, almost as wide as a dollar. His clothes consisted of a suit of a vast pattern in green and black checks, and he had a large red silk pocket handkerchief which he occasionally filliped in playful manner into the faces of his more distant interlocutors at the bar. This gentleman was declaim- ing in a heated key, and appeared to be regarded with great de- ference and admiration, not only by the bar-keepers, but by the crowd around him. While Hugh was regarding this group and trying to catch the signification of-some of the words of wisdom which were falling from its vociferous centre, he felt his hat slightly tipped over his eyes friom behind, and, turning to see who had adopted this del- icate, but not unusual, method of salutation, found at his elbow Mr. Sloper. "I'll liquor with you this time," said the latter, as if pursuing a previous conversation. "I've been a buckin', and I hain't got no more change 'n the law allows." "Cleaned out, eh?" said Hugh, recognizing the force of the invitation, as they made their way to the bar. 'Can't say I'm exactly cleaned out, since I've got one thou- sand nine hundred and seventy-six cigars," returned Lafayette  4 five I guv away, and nineteen I smoked last night. Try one ; they aih' A 1, and no discount."                    - ,       ,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        9 "I wasn't aware," said Hugh, accepting the offer, " that you dealt in the article." "No more I didn't till arter you turned in last night. Then I run agin a cuss who had three thousand cigars, and ne'er a red besides, bein' played out chasin' the eagle 'board the boat. I had three hundred dollars. and his Havanas .was worth more rather than less. So we jest went in for a little plain poker to pass away time. We played till daylight and was jest even. Nre took a hand for the very last, and he drawed a good un. He bet a clean thousand o' them weeds, and I see 'em and went two slugs better; he seed 'em and went a thousand better 'n me. I called, and he laid down three aces and two kings; I slung four dooses atop on 'em, and raked down the pile." "So that you're now so much the richer?" "Ne'er a time. I sold a thousand for one hundred and fifty to this 'ere chap who keeps the den; and I've lost four hundred and more in his darned old Pharaoh bank since breakfast; that's so." : Well," said Hugh, doubtfully, " don't you think, it about time to knock off?" "Not in these boots, I don't. I'm playin' for even now, and even I'm a goin' to be. A squeeze more bitters in that 'ere cock- tail, young man. I hain't had dhinks enough yit," continued Mr. Sloper, sternly, "to feel riled. I've got to git my dander up, and then you'll see the bar fly. D'ye know that man ye was looking at jest now?" "No-, "No!" repeated the other, turning his profile toward Hugh, and fixing one keen eye reprovingly upon him. Don't know that air man. Why, he's a Californian Instertooshun, he is. He's one of the gol-darndest, hull-hoggest, out-and-out screamers that ever drunk whiskey! Why, he's the man that killed Hank Swett for takin' the copper off his parlee and the last card in, at old Deaf Dan's bank, up to Stockton!  I'll tell ye what" said Sloper, with fierce resolution, "I'll put ye through!" Don't!" said Hugh, at a hazard. '4 Yes, I will. Why," he added, seizing Hugh's shoulder, and gripping it hard as if to nerve him to bear what was to follow, "that ere h-a-o-wling oriator is Judge Skewer!" "Judge Skewer!" "Achilles McGaw O'Rafferty Skewer," said Lafayette, leaning back a little to watch the effect of his announcement. "Guess ye know who he is now, don't ye?" "I confess I " 9,   MARLUN ROOKE; OR, "Say no more," cried Sloper, authoritatively. "I'll put ye through!" And he darted off with the apparent design to carry his mysterious threat into effect. As quickly, however, he returned, and whispering hurriedly, "Don't say anythink to him 'bout Hank Swett; he's easy het, and p'raps he might knife ye, ye know!" disappeared again. "I say," exclaimed Hugh, in some dismay; " don't! Hold on! I'd rather not, whatever it is!" But expostulation was use- less, for Sloper was already achieving his purpose. Presently he was seen wriggling and plunging through the crowd, and to force his way toward the man with the white hat and the golden hair. That person was just in the act of tak- ing his fifth drink without stirring from the spot, and his back was turned for the moment to Mr. Sloper. The latter now seized the drinker firmly round the waist, from behind, and dragged him backwards through the crowd to where Gifford was standing. "Quit!" roared the Judge. "Who is't? Let up, or I'll open daylight inter yer!" But his assailant whispered a cabalistic word in his ear, and he continued, in the same breath, while he was released and faced about: "Why, Lafe! You here! What in     fetched you down from up country?" Lafe made a significant gesture. "Broke, air ye? Quiere Oro? Well, now, if you want a hundred  " "No, I don't, Judge. I kin kerry sail so fur, and when I can't I'll let ye know. I jest wanted t' interdoose ye to a friend o' mine. Judge Skewer, Cap'en Giffurd; Cap'en Giffurd, Judge Skewer." "flow air you?" inquired the 'Judge, with great interest. "How do you find yourself now.? Take somethink?. We're all a-takin' somethink. Come, Lafe, replenish, and let the flowin' bowl go round!" With this the Judge finished his glass at a gulp, and imme- diately ordered another, insisting that his companions should do the like. While these refreshments were in preparation, he caught sight of a large bowl, or ewer, filled with broken frag- ments of ice, with which he now began slyly to pelt the party ,he had just quitted, watching the results of his shots in the opposite mirror. "The boys is havin' a lively time here to-day," continued Judge Skewer, juicily, "Not but that the festive scene's pooty   reg'lar; only there's more o' the old stiff drinkers round than :;:: usual. Where did you say you come from, Cap'en Gifford?" Hugh hadn't said, but he now admitted that he hailed from Massachusetts. ?  "Drefful sot up State, ain't it? Good many nice boys, tho' come from there ; too darned pooritanical for 'em to home, I reckon. We don't hev nuthin' o' that kind here. Gents, I'm ,:?; lookin' at yer!" "Air you a runnin', Judge?" queried Sloper, mysteriously. "I am that. And I'm a goin' to keep on till I run all these 'ere scallywags off the track. I ain't a goin' to be bought off this time with no ten thousand and a sheer in Jim Docket's bank. I tell yer," he continued, confidentially, "I'm a goin' to stick to my friends from the word 'Go!"Kin you stump-speak some Cap'en?" Hugh didn't know, he had never tried; but as he had some- times addressed juries, he thought he might. "You air the bone and sinoo, you young men air," said the Judge, pressing Gifford's hand with great feeling and urbanity, "you air the bone and sinoo, who yer country looks to keep her eend up, and cement her power. I'll bet somethink on you, I will! and I'm goin' to make a lofty pile: Where'd you say you'd been a minin' of, Cap'en?" Hugh mentioned the, hame of Armstrong's Bar. "Armstrong's Bar! I've heerd on't as a place risin' fast in wealth and consequence. Fill up, Lafe. You're kinder shirkin' yer rum, you air' Fourteen drops for you, Cap'en? Why, that wouldn't drown a fly! What I was goin' to let on, gen- tlemen, was that we air expectin' a time!" ... "A reg'lar time?" suggested Mr. Sloper, sippinghis whiskey. "Better-a darned sight better. You'd oughter 'fheerd that Tom Flyer has jest arrived from York, and was tearin' about last night as blue as a razor! and Yankee Bullyman, and Sydney Bob, and Belcher Gay, and some more o' the 'sports; they feel asi like givin' him a turn ; and he's got a strong gang with him, Tom has, and I reckon he's the wuss man to tackle in the world, lettin' bowies and sixshooters alone ; so if these here Pucks and - his crowd fall together we air expectin' a time!" "I hain't seen a real square old scrimmage," said Lafayette '  sorrowfully, "for more'n three months. Not, candidways, since them curu caes sto Beneshy, when Pony Lazarous sliced off Johnny Fargo's nose." "Ah!" said the Judge sympathetically, ' them was gay old times. Nothin' but champagne cocktails and Pharaoh and free    196         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, fights, from night till morn and morn till dooey eve! But," he continued reassuringly, "I do actooally b'lieve we shall have a time with these 'ere roughs nigh as good 's any o' the old-fash- ioned ones. How much dust did you say you fetched down from the Bar, Cap'en " Hugh's reply was drowned in the sudden and unexpected rush of the Judge's late boon companions, who, impatient at his 'pro- tracted absence, now burst into the circle with mingling yells, the most intelligible purport of which seemed to be that there was too much talkin' between drinks, and that they see him fire that last hunk of ice. "Hold on now, gents, hold on," cried the Judge with digni- ty, and stilling the uproar with a Demosthenean wave of the hand, "allow me. Permit me to introdoose-Sheriff Mayhem, Cap'en Gifford; brandy straight for me, what's your'n, Sheriff? This here is our Surrogate, Malachi Gallus, Major Gifford; gin cocktail, Charley, with a very little sugar. Mr. McCracken, per- mit me to introdoose-Mr. McCracken, the great pool player, Kurnel Gifford. Two more brandies, Charles. I beg your par- ding, I'm sure. This is the honored Chief of our Fire Depart- ment and former vanquisher of the 'Lancashire Chicken' and the 'Lily of the Valley ;' Mr. Samson Adder, this is my esteem- ed friend, General Gifford. Air you all ready? If so, fire!" Messrs. Mayhem, -Gallus, McCracken, and Adder, all smelling horribly of spirits, shook Gifford's hand in succession with tre- mendous energy, and being supplied with fresh glasses of their favorite stimulants, tossed them off with a hasty formula that sounded very like "Success to crime." "General Gifford's one of my boys," announced Judge Skew- er, who by this time had passed his arm -affectionately round Hugh's neck, "and bein' a stranger tothis 'ere praowd taown- unbeknown, as I may say, to these halls of dazzlin' light, I'm a goin' to show him the elephant. My intellectooal feller citizen Lafayette Sloper is, I believe, well known among ye.' We air expectin' a time, and until it comes, all I kin say is, drink hearty and vote for Skewer!" This sentiment was received with much applause, and those unqualified endorsements which were forthcoming as often as the Judge paid for the drinks; but excitement was greatly augment- ed when Mr. Sloper returned from the door, whither he had gone for a moment, and, with as gratified an expression as his satur- nine features-were capable of; said: "The Ducks air a comin'!" "Ye don't say so! Where d'ye s'pose Tom's party air?   3;:;:i: .       THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        197 Now there'll be fun, and no mistake!" broke delightedly from different members of the group, as a fresh drink was proposed in honor of the bearer of the happy tidings. "But, Lafe,;" suggested the Judge anxiously, "there's no tellin' for sure that Tom and the York boys 'll happen along jest at the right minute. Wouldn't it pay to kind o' slip round taown and let 'em know where these Ducks is?" "'Taint no use," replied Lafe :'the trap's all sot. They know jest as well as we do where the Ducks hang aout. You see now, there'll. be the allfiredest, tearinest, sweet- scented little riot in 'bout ten minutes, ever skeared up this side o' h--." "If you think so," remarked Gifford, " don't you think we had better go away a" "Go away!" echoed the Judge, with stupefied amazement. "Go away! What fur?" "What for? Why, to be safe out of the row-to escape the tumult, to be sure.9' "Escape the toomult! Why, my dear unsophisticated gene-  ral, to see the toomnult was jest what we come here for'!" I come here to see a toomult," affirmed Mr. Sloper, sternly, 'and a toomult I'll have, or blood; and I don't kear a darn which.' "Meanin', naterally," said the Judge, "a good knock-down and drag-aout fight. That's your idee, ain't it, Lafe?" "That was my meanin'," acquiesced Lafe, with acerbity, for the notion of quitting any spot likely to be the scene of a row was to him, perhaps, of almost all others, the most senseless and distasteful. "If I know merself intimately," continued Judge Skewer, judicially, "and this court thinks it does, nobody of this 'ere party leaves until we see things through.," 'There's too much talkin' agin," observed the Sheriff with a menacing air, " between drinks. I don't feel good yit, I don't. I don't take kindly to-my rum when there's sech a heap o' cacklin', ' I don't. Charles, we air a repeatin'!"  At this point a great hubbub arose near the doors, and pres- ently the crowd rolled back and opened a way to the bar for the choice spirits termed by Sloper the "Ducks." They con- sisted, to speak plainly, of the very elite of the reckless and tur- bulent fighting men, or more commonly, " shoulder strikears," to be found in California. In the wild and lawless society which then existed, this class of ruffians were highly important and in- fluential.- Almost any one who became prominent, either as a   / 198        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, political candidate, a tavern or saloon keeper, a proprietor of gambling rooms, or the like, found it necessary to propitiate, if not to directly subsidize, this crew, under pain of defeat, failure, or even personal molestation. Wherever they went, then, they were received with affected if, not real cordiality and joy; and their capacity at once for pommelling and robbing stood them in as good stead as did ever similar repute the moss troopers or black mailers of old. Just at present their reign seemed likely to be disputed, and their prestige to be impaired by fresh arrivals from the Atlantic States. A deputation of notable prize-fighters, headed by a ce- lebrity famous for winning a recent desperate battle against a hitherto invincible opponent, had landed from the last steamer, and, after reconnoitring their ground, had coolly announced a determination to " clean out" and supplant the autocrats now holding undivided sway. This was barely a day or two before, and furnished reason for the profound interest in forthcoming events expressed by Skewer, Sloper & Co, Certainly no regime could be worse than that of the desperadoes in power. Several among them had been transported firom Great Britain for divers felonies, and their general moral tone was far below thille average of even their questionable kidney. On the other hand, the new comers, although indubitably of the "fancy," were men who had never been charged with crime; and although there might not have been much to choose between the fiactions so far as the'ir disposition towards fighting and riotous living were concerned, the strangers had beyond question the cleanest hands, and in view of their records were most likely to keepD them so. It is hardly necessary to add, for the information of those familiar with the material of the dangerous classes in America, that the horde in possession were chiefly foreigners, and that the arrivals were almost all native-born. The party which now swaggered into the hall were for the most part very expensively dressed, their brawny shoulders being cased- in glossy broadcloth, and their inflamed, bull-dog-looking faces surmounted by irreproachable castorS. They all had ex- aggerated cerebellums, heavy jaw-bones, flinty brows, and defiant expressions. There appeared to be a dozen "or fifteen of them and as the crowd parted with respectful deference to allow their passage to the bar, they evidently accepted the homage as rightly due to the importance and dignity of their social position. They were talking and gesticulating with great excitement and energy, and they ordered champagne, several bottles of which were promptly opened for their use. Gifford remarked, however, o    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE&         199 that none of their number even offered to pay for it, and men- tioned the omission in an undertone to Sloper. If they was to ask one o' them thar Ducks for pay," ex- plained the worthy, " the house 'd jest come down in about ten minutes. They air on the fightin' lay, they air, and they travel on their shaped ' ' But," urged Hugh, " surely there must be some law, some authority to protect people in the possession of their property?" "If any judge was to go back on them thar Ducks he'd jest git voted out of office so quick 'twould make his head swim." "We must allow, then, that this is a very bad state of so- ciety. - "1 reckon ye'd better not bile over on our glorious inster- tooshuns,'9 retorted Lafayette, turning one eye with extreme suspicion on his interlocutor. "If that thar Britisher you're travellin' with has inocoolated ye with the pison out o' that rot- ten old hum o' his'n, you'd best not show it where the Ducks is. The Ducks is awful sot agin praoud old aristocracies; that's so; and they strike out awful bitter when they git riled." Hugh promised to keep their propensities under consideration, as in all prudence became him, explaining, meanwhile, to the incredulous Sloper that his criticism bore only a local and tem- porary application, which, although perhaps it might be offen- sive to the Ducks, need not necessarily be so to any other pa- triot whatever. Pending this elucidation a tremendous howl *  without, followed by a hasty scrambling together of their gold i and dust on the part of the " bankers" nearest the doors, gave   signal that some fresh incident was about to transpire. s Ai It's the York boys," cried Judge Skewer, rubbing his hands in ecstasy; " it's Tom and the York boys. I know'd they'd come. Let's take a drink for the very last, and then, gents, stand by for squalls. Gineral Gifford, you jest freeze close to me, fox bein' in, allers, with both gangs, I don't jine either too pop'la till I see which licks!" "Hooray!" roared Mayhem, Gallus, McCracken, and Adder, in unison. "Hooray for them as licks!" With a roar of sound like so many wild animals suddenly let loose from their cages, the redoubted Flyer and his followers came tearing, screeching, bellowing into the hall. Nearly aUll were in red flannel shirts, a distinctive uniform, as it appeared, in token of a democratic uprising against the hierarchy of the Ducks. There was a perfect Babel of oaths, execrations, ques- tions, replies, and giving of the lie ; but where fifty voices were speaking together, and at their utmost tension, it was idle even   200        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, to tty to get at the purport of their speech. There was a bran- dishing of gigantic fists, a scattering on all sides of the affrighted throng who were not immediately of the hostile parties; but al- though' every one knew mischief was coming, none knew the precise why or wherefore. Short was the parley, for, with the rapidity of lightning, a towering figure of the "York boys' threw himself right into the very centre of the group of Ducks. Three of them went down almost instantly under this man's sledge-hammer blows; but they were soon up again, and then the fight began -in downright earnest. Everyone of the two parties was immediately hotly engaged. Over went the tables in every direction, and coin, and bags, and ivory checks, and boxes, rolling and tumbling about the floor, with their frantic owners sprawling and grasping after them, added to the hideous confusion. Meanwhile Judge Skewelr was fairly dancing with. glee, and' the others of his company, as if the din were insufficient, roared themseles quite purple with shouts which accompanied and set off the row, as melodramatic action is illustrated by a " hurry" in the orchestra. By this time, too, Mr. Sloper was standing on the bar, and, not content with tossing wine-glasses and such tri- fles into the struggling mass, he finally, in a fit of enthusiasm, launched the- huge bowl at his feet, and which was filled with broken ice, into the very midst of the combatants. A pistol- shot from some unknown hand instantly rewarded this sally, which, although it missed him, appeared to goad Lafayette to madness; for bottles, tumblers, all the articles on the shelves, and at last even the stools behind the bar, were promptly em- ployed by him as projectiles. At the sound of fire-arms, Judge Skewer, with extreme alacrity, got over the counter and packed himself snugly beneath it, inviting his companions to do the same.', But Messrs. Mayhem and Adder had already decamped for some other place of safety; while Messrs. Gallus and McCracken had become personally engaged in the combat. As for Gifford, he made a rush for the door, whence he es- caped, leaving the day still undecided; the last object he remem- bered seeing in his retreat being the lank form of Mr. Sloper standing on the-counter, and, With a countenance perfectly im- movable, hurling champagne-bottles into the middle of the fray.     . ,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        201 CHAPTER III. HUGH thought he had never seen Marian look so lovely as she did the next morning when he called after her return from Con- tracosta. Beautiful in his eyes she had ever been; but the coarse garb and the commonplace surroundings which were inevitable on the prairies or in the mines, if they could not destroy, were ill calculated to set off her beauty. Hugh saw her now for the first time under circumstances similar at least in some respects to those among which she had been born and bred. The picture was in something like its proper frame, and was no longer left to depend exclusively on the delicacy of its outlines and the rich- ness of its coloring. She wore a dress of some Chinese fabric, a pale lemon in hue, and over this a black net shawl. Her magnificent black harh- was gathered in low, heavy folds to a simple knot behind, with no meretricious convolutions. to disturb the harmony of her pure Greek profile. The olive cheek was tinged with a rosy flush, set- ting off to most bewitching advantage the inky, long eyelashes, and the beautiful eyes they protected ; and the same cause that flushed the cheek had set the bust heaving in a manner that no less fair proportions could have counterfeited. The lips, always so like coral, were as charming as ever; the nose as delicate and as suggestive of high breeding. The step too, so light, so fawn- like as it always was, did not even fall upon Gifford's sense, eager as he was to hear it, so that indeed she had to speak before he knew of her presence. Hugh had been shown into a back drawing-room rather richly furnished in the French taste, and opening by windows which descended to the floor upon a vine-shaded piazza without. Through these vines far away, melting and fading into sky at the horizon, stretched the blue Pacific. I think most of us regret that gloriously placid ocean who have left it, as we deem, to see it no more.  The contrast with the angry, boisterous Atlantic is so very strong, the breezes which ruffle its smooth surface are for the most part so gentle yet so refreshing, as compared with the east winds and dismal fogs we  have known too much of near home, that we  sigh to think the change was but for a time, and that we have returned perforce to the old inhospitalities. But Hugh's thoughts were not fixed on such contrasts as these. He 9*   202         MARIAN ROOKE I OR, was thinking in how short, how very short a time-eight and forty hours perchance--Marian would be sailing away on this glittering element, sailing away from allthose friends with whom she had crossed the plains, sailing away from him, Hugh, on whose life she had wrought so great a change, sailing away to return no more forever!       - Alas for human hopes, and' human faith! Who of us shall say that we will do this or that-which shall dare to echo the boast of the impious conqueror when speaking of his purposes, "Je dis c'est moi qui prpose et c'est moi aussiqui disose," in the teeth of bitter experience, and knowing how inevitably we have each our petty Moscow as a crown and end of our best digested plans, our most cherished hopes! What schemes, what lofty re- solves, what unalterable determinations have melted, dissolved, vanished like wreaths of vapor, before even a tinier assault than lay in those musical words which broke at once Hugh's trance and the surrounding silence:  "Won't you speak to me, Hugh?" A bright smile broke over the young man's face, and the blood ran up to the roots of his hair like a girl's.  "Marian!" he exclaimed, and then rather awkwardly stopped. "You hardly seem pleased to see me," continued she, " and yet it is more than three months since you have done so." "Three years!" said Hugh, half unconsciously. "Not quite so long," said Marian, laughing; "but that is meant for a compliment, I suppose. You were not used to pay me compliments." No., -"Won't you sit down? You were looking at the view, I see. It is pretty, but nothing to compare with what you get forom the other side of the Bay." "Ah!" "It is quite lovely there. I've often been since I came to the city; and yesterday I went-with the children-for the last time."  "For the last time?"Hugh repeated mechanically. "Surely. Don't you remember I sail Wednesday? I[ow dis- trait you are!" s Distrait?" "You've uttered nothing but monosyllables, and so far firom seeming glad to see me, you " "Marian!" She stopped, and neither spoke for at least a minute. The truth is, -Hugh was wrestling with all his might to suppress what   i           THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        203 he feared each moment would escape him. This impassiveness, justly complained of, was the veriest mask that could be imagin- ed, for the man's whole nature was stirred, and his heart was rocking and swaying in a storm which he feared every instant would bring it to shipwreck. How strange it is that men, ay, and women too, although not so often, will so generally misun- derstand this sort of nature-will believe that this cold, reserved, self-contained exterior is the true exponent of that which lies be- low or within! From the moment those lustrous eyes of Marian's were fixed upon him, Hugh felt he was more and more in danger of ceasing to be master of himself. That which re- strained him from throwing himself headlong at the girl's feet, and then and there pouring forth the wildest, the most over- whelming tale of passion, seemed so delicate, so fragile, that he marvelled then and afterwards that he did not throw down or over- leap it. When they had been constantly together there had been far less risk of such an explosion. But the cruel void, the un- speakable vacuum Marian's departure had left behind he had now felt in all its bitterness, and his soul yearned to prevent its per- manency. The shock of seeing her again was striking chords in his breast of exquisite melody transcendent harmony; was bringing back lovely scenery, delicious perfumes; all that seems most delightful in life, all that ever reconciles to its woes and cares, came back in a flood of intoxicating memory, as of things which he had regarded as passed away, dead forever, and yet they were here and alive again. And Virginia? Yes, Marian was right, in that sense, in thinking as she wrote "it had been better otherwise." When she fulfilledher promise, however, she was only reckoning on her own strength, and thought nothing of any possible strain upon Hugh's. As for him, he kept on looking at the ocean, and then at the floor, and then, irresistibly impelled, at Marian again, and then fell thinking of honor and firmness, and Europe and Armstrong's Bar, and of how he ought to have undergone some process of purification be- fore conming from the presence of Judge Skewer and Mr. Sloper into that of Marian; and then, all of a sudden, awoke to the consciousness that he was expected to say something. 'Yes Miss Rooke, that is, Marian, you were very kind to write; and we are all very, sorry to think you are going to leave California," he said, at last, in a measured, business-like tone; "and as it was necessary two of us should come down to the Bay--on another account-the coincidence was fortunate. Dr. Landale came down with me, and is also quite anxious to see you. He would have called this morning, but  "   : 204        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, Here he caught Marian's eyes; a look which turned the dis- simulating drift of his sentence, and ended it in truth as it were with the foree of destiny. " but that I devised a plan to induce him to walt till the afternoon," he finished desperately. Marian laughed quite unsuspectingly. "I shall be very glad to see him. The Doctor is sometimes rough, but he is so straightforward, and, as I think, so trustworthy, that one can- not help respecting him. And how are all the others at the Bar? I had a letter or two from dear Kitty-short, though- and the last some weeks ago. Are they all well?" "Yes-all well. Living the same life-seeing the same sights --hoping the same hopes-as when you left us." "And you have been fortunate?" In gold-hunting, you mean? Not so much so as before. I don't know whether the charm lay in you or in Mr. Panghurn, but we have never done worse than in these last three months." "So that you are becoming discontented again." "Becoming? I am always discontented, I fear. You know, of course, I have nothing to do but to grind on to the end of the chapter. There is no chance for me in life-no hope-but that gold is its stepping-stone. - So for gold I must e'en still work." They had seated themselves on a Chinese sofa, placed con- veniently on the piazza, and Marian had pulled off her gloves- for she had been walking in the garden, it seems,-and was propping them up mechanically in her lap, one against the other, as if they had fingers in them. "You have doubtless fiequently heard from Miss Chester- from Virginia?" "Oh yes," muttered Hugh, a slight shiver running in.. voluntarily through his fiame; "several times since I saw you." "She is well-and happy, I hope " "Here is her last letter," said Hugh, half offering it to Marian, as if thus best to answer her question. "It contains nothing which is indelicate for another-a friend-to read." he added, seeing a slight movement of rejection. "I would rather not read it, please," said Marian, gently, but quite positively. "Then I will read it-or parts of it-to you." And he did so, calmly and dispassionately, as if it were a paragraph friom a newspaper. There might have been just a trace of irony here and there in passages which were least equivocal as to the para- mount thoughts in the writers mind, but only a trace. A shadow   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        205 came over Marian's brow as she listened, and when Hugh ended she looked somewhat pained. "She has false lights-bad counsellors," she said, perceiving that Gifford looked for some criticism; but you must undo all that. You will teach her higher views-nobler aims-and re- deem her from the bad effects of this village gossip which sur- rounds her." And when am I to begin this work of reformation?" Begin? Now; at any, at all times. In your letters; you write to her, do you not?" "Yes. Regularly, almost, since we came to the country; and you see with what effect." "Ah, but have you striven to make a change-to divert her mind into new channels?" "Have I a right to censure her for our common weakness- if it is one? To criticise the mote without seeking to cast out the beam? Why, it is on this point that we are most in sym- pathy. The similarity shows how well we are adapted for each other." "This bitterness is misplaced on such a subject," said Marian, earnestly. "If I did not know you better, I should think you heartless. Your duty is plainly to elevate and improve, not to cavil or snieer 'at weaknesses wherein you admit you have your- self a share. What! Are we placed here to deal in such a spirit with characters whose growth is clearly, and for a Wise purpose, entrusted to our care-characters which it is given us to nurture and foster even as if they were those of little children? Do you think so poorly of yourself that you do not feel strong enough- capable enough-to undertake such an obvious care, such a man- ifest duty?" "Marian," answered Hugh, humbly and sadly, "it is easy for the prosperous to condemn the short-comings of the needy, and the world will never go backwards for the want of censure from those who have never felt the temptation to the crime they con- temn. There is something wrong about me-radically wrong, I fear; and to be at fault in this one thing may be only one symp- tom of a pervading disease. I loathe the society in which I am placed-not the Armstrongs, or the others at the Bar, but the circles at large wherein my life has been passed in the years gone by-must be passed, I suppose, for those to come. This may be another sign of the same malady. What then? There have been discontented egotists before my time ; like them I shall live, die, and be forgotten." You are wronging yourself now," said Marian, "this is also ^                   .   mere bitterness, like the rest; and what has it to do with Vir- ginia?" "Only that I am asking charity; the charity a man seeks from those who can have never felt the ills which led to his fall. I can feel-although you may not quite think it-the felicity that may lie in teaching, guarding, training to nobler life and higher beau- ty, a certain favored being. I know how the doting mother can make for herself a paradise in merely hanging over the footsteps of her tottering child. I can feel that without this relation- that of parent and offspring--such happiness may be as great, such solicitude may be as tender. Itis not hard to picture a man and a woman in such a light. She is young, lovely, and most engaging ; but, through the accident of fortune, unenlightened, ignorant, perhaps even misdirected; and yet her character is fiull of the germs of nobleness and generosity, her intellect is stored with undeveloped ability. The man, with better opportunities, with more enlarged experience, devotes liimself to the task of im- proving this charming being-of leading her to the utmost heights of excellence which she is capable of attaining. How noble, how glorious such an undertaking! What happiness to watch, while tending, each shoot of perception, each bud of maturing intelli- gence! What rapture to find each year, each month, each day bringing forth its fruit of grateful symmetry and increasing ex- cellence to cheer and reward his exertions! What bliss to be- hold at last a creature beautiful and perfect in soul as in body, and to feel that such an ideal work has been partly due to his own self-paying labors-his own happy toils! Think of the joy that Phidias or such as he have felt in the mere cold, speechless marble whence they have hewn their marvellous conceptions- and then compare it with his ecstasy who, as it were, has created intelligence instead of matter-a soul instead of a body!" "Such a task, such a labor," exclaimed Marian with enthusi- asm, " should be yours with Virginia." "You forget," said Hugh, with averted face, "that to such a labor one thing is indispensable." "Which is "That it should be one of love," said Hugh, in a very low voice. Good heavens! you don't surely mean  " "You do not understand me?" "I hope I do not. I would not think of you as capricious or wilful; asforgetting goodfeeling, justice,honor. Andyet " "And yet you would think all these were I to confess that I do not love Virginia Chester?"   !           THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       207 "Indeed, I had rather believe that you were exaggerating or mnisstating, or mnisconceiving your true feelings; thatyouhad been distressed by unpleasing foibles, perhaps, annoyed by traits which were rather reflected from others than natural to Virginia herself; and so that you were led to speak hastily and thought- lessly ;, but that you wronged yourself and her in speaking so, and that in your heart of hearts you truly loved Virginia still." Gifford turned and looked straight in Marian's eyes. ' Would you, Marian, would you indeed rather believe so?" Could he himself have stood such a question and such a test! I doubt it. Was it the truth which came in response from Ma- rian's lips? I doubt it. But what moralist can tell the nice dis- tinctions between right and wrong in such a case? I cannot an- swer, and can only tell what Marian did and what she said ; ex- cept I will aver that if she spoke falsely then, she never did be- fore. There was a little rising in her throat, bravely choked, and she looked unfalteringly in Gifford's face and said  ' For your honor's sake I would indeed, Hugh Gifford." There was a long pause again, and Hugh looked far out on the smiling blue sea and heaved a great sigh. And Marian occupied herself some time in smoothing her gloves out very assiduously on her knee. It was she who broke the silence and changed the subject in the dexterous fashion women have : "And they are all well, you say, and going on in the same old way?"     .  "Yes ; just the same." "I wish to send them some things-some little keepsakes; you'll take them for me, will you not?" "Oh yes, unquestionably." "Two dresses, and one or two little tobacco-boxes and trinkets, and some books for Luke, and a collar for Lion," proceeded Marian, as if it were needful to give an inventory of her con- signment. "Books for Luke?" "I promised them. He is ambitious, poor Luke, and, very worthily, wishes to improve himself." "He is ambitious, I think," said Hugh, pointedly. Marian colored. Could he suspect, she thought, the mournfal scene before her departure? If he did, what matter? Only Marian somehow did not like to believe Hugh knew of Luke's attach ment or the revelation of it. "I saw him have a book of yours once," continued Hugh, " a little Testament."  "He has it now," said Marian, simply. Luke had indeed   begged the volume of her just after his rejection, and she had not the heart to refuse it. She would not have chosen to men- tion-the fact, but since he had made the allusion, she saw that Hugh would think her disingenuous if she withheld it, and he Were afterwards by chance to see the book in Luke's possession. "He askedme for it before I left the Bar, and I gave it him." "And I," said Hugh, not without pique, "I am the only one to be left without a keepsake!" You are too hasty,' replied Marian, laughing, "in coming to such a conclusion.- You'll wait, please, until you get your package before being quite so certain." "With that hint I surely will, and fancy myself, as Lear says of poor Cordelia ' though last not least in your dear -' " "Nay," interrupted Marian, with a quick impulse suppressing the coming word, "I have no such wealth as the unhappy old king had to distribute." *"And so will escape an ungrateful return?" "And have no need, I know, to purchase any return save the one which will be mine without guerdon-to be kindly remem- beref." "Only kindly, Marian?V "Perhaps I might have said, 'affectionately.'" "You might, indeed." "I know well," continued Marian, thoughtfully, "how very fortunate I was, alone Xnd helpless, with none to speak in my behalf, and appearances, perhaps, rather against me-how very fortunate to chance among such kind friends as the Armstrongs proved to be. I can never forget good Uncle Seth's trusting, fatherly confidence-shown from the very first-or worthy Mrs. Armstrong's quaint, bustling kindness; or -clear Kitty's simple- hearted love, fond and clinging as a sister's.- "And Luke?" "He has a heart of gold, Hugh. Rustic and untutored as he is, I don't think there breathes an honester spirit-a more guile- less nature. But all were good to me; oven blunt, rough Dick, who always wanted me for a confidante in his addresses to Kitty. And as to poor Ichabod and his inseparable companion, I have felt as if leaving them for ever in this manner were like leaving part-of one's self behind." They were both looking seaward, and, as they gazed on- the glittering expanse, the boom of a gun rolled solemnly in to the land, and the next moment a long, black steamship glided swiftly into sight, 'making straight for the Heads, the portals of the Golden Gate.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         209 "Marian," cried Gifford suddenly, " why go at all? we were all very happy together at the Bar, and none of us are sure to be so elsewhere. None could have ever been more discontented than I had been in my previous life, but there-at least when you were there-I was nearer to happiness than ever before. You have blamed me for restlessness in wishing to quit it; and yet you do so for less reason. As to independence, none can be more truly independent than those who, like you, give far more than they take. Think of the many happy hours you have passed there, Marian. Think of the old walk by the river, and the dear little lake perched up among the hills; think of the many kind souls who loved and valued you so highly, and whom you were always in return teaching and improving; think of the seclusion, the placid content, the unbroken peace we all enjoyed shut out from the jars, the clamorings, the hearthurnings of the world. Ah, Marian, will you find better friends, will you find securer shelter than in that little nest of ours, all homely as it is? Will you find solace, when care and pain perchance shall come and seek you amid strangers, in the thought that you have thus needlessly been tempted to fly away and abandon it? Marian, dear Marian, give up this wild scheme of wandering forth alone over the earth; give it up, and gladden all our hearts by going back home with me to the Bar!" Marian's color---came and went as he spoke, her lips parted eagerly, and the white teeth behind them seemed clenched as if in resistance to an impulse which strove hard for mastery. Why was it that this man whom she had sought to purify and exalt should now be urging her to that which conscience taught her to be wrong? And yet how was it that she should censure him thus when he must be ignorant of her strongest motives for re- sistance? Alas! she was far better than Hugh, for he had yielded in a burst of wild impulsive selfishness to the same tempt- ation that she in her purity was proof against. "No, Hugh," she answered quietly and steadily, "no, that cannot be;--do not urge it. It pains me much, very much. Pray speak of it no more." "And we who remain," he exclaimed almost angrily, "our pain, you think nothing of that!" She turned her eyes full upon him with a mournful expression that made Gifford hate himself for the temper of his speech, and yearn to go down on his knees again for pardon's sake, as he had yearned to do before for adoration's. "You do not think that, Hugh, although you say it; you will be sorry for it when I am gone."   He caught up the delicate little hand which lay on her lap toy- ing nervously with its glove, and-he had never even approached the doing such a thing before-he pressed upon it one single, passionate kiss. - She drew it gently away with something of surprise, and, as she did so, their eyes met, and Marian shivered from head to foot as if sickened with a sudden chill. For at that instant she became possessed of a secret such as Hugh him- self discovered on the night he saw Luke with Marian's Testa- ment. "You must leave me now," she said, with a half bewildered, half frightened air. "We shall meet again before I sail. That is, perhaps you will call once again-to get the parcels, you know. H-don't like sending you away, but there is a great deal to do and "  "I go, Marian,"' said Hugh, relieving her evident embarrass- ment; '- only don't let me go thinking I have offended you." ' Oh, no, no," she replied; "the time is too short for any of- fences to be given-or taken." And that was all. I have been wrong, thought Hugh, unea- sily, as he went down the steps, very wrong, and hasty as a spoilt child. And yet, he murmured to himself, I should have thought she would have shown more feeling. Wise judges these men often are! Could he. at that moment have looked into poor Marian's little chamber, he would have seen her stretched on the bed, weeping her heart out in a passion of desperate, sickening tears. CHAPTER IV. "Tms is not precisely a model city," said Gifford, .when the Doctor and he compared notes as to their discoveries and expe- riences. "It is a very charming spectacle," quoth the Doctor, com- plaisantly, " of our dear democracy run mad. I must confess they have been entirely consistent here, and have by no means done things by halves. It is a picture in little of the great re- public, with a slight exaggeration in details necessary to bring out the whole force of the subject. It is a thorough-going at- tempt to demonstrate the possibility of making a pyramid stand upon its apex with a heaven-kissing base; and to tell you the !   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        2" truth, I for one would rather be anywhere else when the experi- ment is just at its poising acme, for, whoever is hurt, those be- low are sure to be." "The gold discovery," returned Hugh, willing toefind an ex- cuse for a state of things which yet was as repulsive to himself as to his companion, "' brought quickly to the place not only many of the most enterprising, but a great number of the most lawless of our eastern population. It seems the inevitable fate of new countries. Virginia and the Carolinas were largely pop- ulated, you know, by thieves and cut-throats, and, more lately, so have been your settlements in Australia. To be sure, in these cases, expatriation was involuntary, but the result appears to be a common one. Men who have forfeited social'position at home are very naturally led to flock to a country where social distinc- tions are as yet unknown.'"  "Ay, but," argued the Doctor, "it's just that of which I complain. There are people of education here, people of breed- ing and character; men who have all the knowledge, if they had only thile will, to bring matters to a more creditable pass, to put down the disgraceful scenes we see all around us, to make the community, in a word, a respectable one. There are such peo- ple, and with such a capacity ; but here, as in the Atlantic States, they won't exert it. They lie down supinely, and allow the very scum of the earth to ride over them rough-shod-suffer them to make their city a bye-word and a jeer for the civilized world- just because they think of nothing but making money, and are too lazy or too cowardly to apply the necessary remedies." "There has been so little time," extenuated Hugh: c" we can't fairly blame men for not acting before they've had time to turn round." "Perhaps not. And there is, moreover, the blissful consola- tion that it can't last. In a very large city like New York, the  Irish mob-pugilists, dramsellers, and gamblers-may have their way for a longer space, because their abuses are not so glaringly conspicuous, and there are some little-unhappily very little- but still some preorganized social adjustments which they cannot utterly defy and overthrow. But here they are first on the ground-here they come in with the conqueror; and hence they're safe to run so rampant that a struggle is inevitable, wherein either they or all other classes in the community must succumb. This is the true goal of sam culotteism, and the only pity is that when the example comes, the rest- of the country won't profit by it." "'Twill come on a larger scale in good time," said Gifford,   212        MARIAN ROOKE  OR, thoughtfiully; " we are fast getting to the extremest limit of practical democracy, and I believe all historical precedents war- rant the theory that, once having reached that limit, the scale must begin to gravitate the other way. But you must admit that, whatever the evils you find in our system-universal or manhood suffrage, election of judges, licentiousness of the press, the elevation of ignorant or depraved men to power-you must allow that the most injurious effects are largely due to immigrants from your own islands. There is nothing ia the American sys- ' tem, so far as it touches those matters, which need have been al- tered or amended for years to come, had it been applicable to Americans alone. You predict a social convulsion in this very little city; such a necessity would be obviated, or would never have existed, if the adventurers consisted exclusively of natives of the country. The turbulent, the vicious, the Red Republi- cans, the proposers and fomenters of file and sword for' every European country which lives under a monarchy, are almost to a man foreigners, and generally subjects of the very countries whose institutions they are so anxious to subvert." "Ay, they want to make all the other foxes cut off their tails, and so they may in good time; but only to go through the nat- ural process that you Americans will first set the example of do- ing-that of persuading them to grow again." "'Perhaps so; for it seems that there is a predestined round of national vicissitudes which, sooner or later, none are to es- cape. But, in the mean time, I honestly believe that with all her defects there is much in America which is truly excellent, encouraging, and instructive to mankind." "And so do I," said the Doctor heartily; "and so will most men, east or West, who are not more anxious to serve party than to serve truth. But so long as our English conservatives swear that the republic is all bad, and our English radicals vow that it is all good-whilst amid their eternal racket no more reasonable voices can be heard-it will be very hard for untravelled men to get at a really fair notion of the facts. And what complicates the matter more is, that your own parties on this side are always playing into the hands of the parties on the other that hate them best." "There is nothing left in such a dilemma," observed Hugh, "but to neutralize the mischief-makers and promote good will by the constant encouragement of education and intelligence." "Just so," assented the Doctor, " and to bear witness to facts as you see them in both countries without reserve, and espe- cially as against the interested or partisan propagation of false-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       213 hoods. To speak the truth at all times without fear or favor, and stick to it." "Amen,'" said Hugh, as they strolled into the Plaza. CHAPTER V. TuE day, which had opened so bright and fairy-like, became dark and lowering as it grew older. The air, which had been so clear and elastic, became dense and oppressive. The color- ing, all blue and gold, which Hugh and Marian had admired so much in the morning, was replaced by gray and lead. Great black clouds came rolling and overlapping each other in from the sea, and heavy drops, like skirmishers' musketry, heralded the approach of the storm. Sudden and violent gusts of wind, which would often lay low many a tent on the neighboring hill- sides, tore through the streets, ripping off signs, and threatening to prostrate the fragile edifices to which they were attached. The rainy season was beginning, and this was but a specimen of many a gay and laughing morning it would bring, to be fol- lowed by a morose and scowling noon, and a desperately tem- pestuous night. By-and-by the water would pour down in literal floods, penetrating every roof, making impassable every street, transforming the town almost into a lake. These cata- racts would descend the live-long night without cessation, and the stranger would be astonished, on looking forth in the morn- ing, to see again the smiling, treacherous blue, the bay without a ripple, and the ahir without a sigh. The Doctor and Gifford had sought shelter in one of the pal- aces of pleasure on-the square, where, as might have been ex- pected, they soon fell in with Judge Skewer and Mr. Sloper. The latter had a huge black patch over one eye, which by no means contributed to the prepossessing effect of his appearance, and the Judge had a generally swollen air, which led Hugh to think he must have kept on drinking ever since he last saw aim, an impression not far from the truth. "The Yorkers has licked," he exclaimed, exultingly, to Hugh "and the Sydney Ducks ain't nowhere. Two on 'em had their ribs stove in, and Belcher Gay's got one eye aout and the other in the water-bucket. I've put Tom on my committee, Major, and as soon as he finds time to git sober he's goin' in for Skewer   ZJL 9:       MARlLIAN JHOUUJKi;J UJ,: and Liberty. Lafe's a nice-lookin' article, ain't he? He fired one bottle too many, that's the hull on't, and some cuss fired it back and belted him over the head." "And I've got my eye on him," added Lafe, turning his head on one side, and fixing it on the Doctor with awful malevolence; "and the pieces inter which he will be redooced when I git a right fa'ir chance to whittle air exceedin' small." "But really," said Gifford, with a faint idea that the provoca- tion given by Mr. Sloper might be presumed to justify that ap- peal to the law of retaliation which had evidently been resorted to, I you might have expected an attack, standing on the coun- ter as you did, and pelting both sets of combatants, and " "When there air -a Time," interrupted Mr. Sloper, with grave superiority, "them kind o' chicken fixins is counted in, and there ain't no back action." '"The Public," expounded the Judge, with Eldonian deliber- ation, " bein' in a free country, reserves the right to sail in and add to the pervadin' hilarity in a gineral Way, knives and shoot- ers bein' barred. A princerple," he added, perceiving that his ruling was accepted with some doubt by a portion of his audi- ence, " which has its origin in the idee that sech folks purchases immoonity by voluntary contributions to the great sum of hu- man enj'ymllent." , And aidin' in the pursoot of happiness the industrious por- tion of the risin' generation," said Mr. Sloper. Meanwhile," continued Judge Skewer, "this court doesn't recolleck the distinguished feller citizen it sees afore it. Major Gifford, I'll permit you to interdoose. Vamnos. Purceed." "Oh,"' said Hugh, "I beg pardon, I'm sure. This, Judge, is my friend and ,co-laborer, Doctor Landale. Doctor Landale, Judge Skewer. Mr. Lafayette Sloper, Doctor Landale; a dis- tinguished physician, engineer, and naturalist."  "I'm tickled to know ye," condescended Mr. Sloper, changing his eye on the Doctor, "although ye air what some folks thinks a leetle onnateral, bein' a Britisher; but I'm tickled to know ye." "A Britisher!" echoed the Judge, pausing in the muscular process of hand-shaking, and holding the Doctor at arm's length; "a Britisher!" he repeated, scrutinizing him with the curiosity and interest he would have bestowed on some strange phenomenon. "Not a Duck, and yit not naturalized?" he con- tinued, doubtfully. Thle Doctor explained that he had never been in Australia, and was unfortunately equally fat, for the present, from being   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        215 an American citizen; whereupon the Judge drew a large pocket- handkerohief, wiped his shining red face, took off his hat, pushed back his moist golden hair, and proceeded in an exalted key: "Air you from that onhappy and down-trodden land? Be you the subjick of a remorseless tyrant? Hev you been a goin' up and down the airth grindin' and stompin' on the poor, or hev you been one o' the poor, and got ground and stomped on your- self?" i The Doctor blandly described his social position at home as having been equally removed firom either category; but could not resist adding that, firom what he had learned, more people had been " stomped " on in the place they were in of late, than he had ever heard of as being subjected to the process in his na- tive land. "Ah!" said the Judge, with compassion, " that's 'cause them bloated minions of a tyrant's power keep things so drefful dark. They're afeard an outraged and long-sufferin' people will rise in their wrath and hurl 'em in the dust. It's 'quite nateral. You hain't got no free and independent press like our'n, hev ye, now?" "Why," admitted the Doctor, ' not precisely like yours, per- haps; but it's progressing fast, and I think may fairly be said in some respects to rival it. Our newspapers are as large as yours, they are fast getting as cheap, and will soon, therefore, become as personal." ' The Sore cheap and the more personal they git to be," re- turned the Judge, " the better the chance for the sufferin' masses. What's wanted is that the misdeeds of them that sit in high places should be dug aout, and held up to the light in all their hidjus deformity. And when the people's quit respectin' their rulers, they'll naterally take more to respectin' theirselves ; bein' the true aim of good government, and the hull duty of man." With this parenthetical protest against the institutions of Britain, Judge Skewer immediately became extremely cordial to her representative, and insisted upon his joining him in a glass of champagne then and there, which the Doctor, willing to  change the subject, readily agreed to. "I'm aware," said the Judge, assuming an air of great famil- iarity with English domestic habits, as the party made the'ir way to the bar, " that your folks don't -drink nuthihx' but beer, and that 'ere thick muck ye call porter; but bein', as we air, the de- scendants of a common mother, p'raps we can jine for once in the same milk." This sentiment commanding general acquiescence, the spark-   216  -MAIAN ROOKE       OR, p ling beverage was soon forthcoming and disposed of, whereupon . the Judge with great alacrity ordered another bottle, which, in j spite of their remonstrances, he almost forced his guests to con- sume. "I'm cock o' the walk," he affirmed; " this here's my  dunghill, and I kin do all the crowin' ;" a metaphor whereby he meant to convey-that no one else should offer to pay for the wine I previously or thereafter to be drunk in the place.    \ "I The Gin'ral," exclaimed Judge Skewer, as he warmed with the second bottle, and, having promoted Hugh successively through the intermediate grades, gazed at him with affectionate enthusiasm, -"The Gin'ral's one o' my boys, he is; and to-night S it's my intention to hist the rag, and show him and our distin- guished British feller-citizen here, a boundin', riotous old ele- phant, and nothin' shorter."                p The company was augmented at this point by the arrival of I Messrs. Gallus and McCracken, the former with his arm in a sling, and the latter with a bandage about his head, and the i Judge at once became highly interested in the recital of their exploits and th'e condition of their wounds. Mr. Sloper went a  little distance from the group to where a large earthen vase stood on the counter, from which he extracted a mass of fine-cut tobacco, which he stuffed into his mouth. Catching Hugh's eye while engaged in this operation, he beckoned him to ap- proach, and on that gentleman's complying, Lafayette whispered  in his ear:                        I "I hain't got no bet on the Britisher, and he kinf do as he likes; but don't you git to playin' keards with the Judge to- night, that's all." "I! Why?" asked Hugh, who, without any idea of doing so, was curious as to the reason for the prohibition. "Why? 'Cause if ye do, the chances are he'll skin ye alive; and if he happened to lose, jest as likes not he'd knife ye; and whar would ye be either way? I tell ye, so's ye can watch how the critter works, and draw out when there's a good chance. The Judge is a smashin' good feller, but keards is his lay. He's smarter on 'em than greased lightnin'; likewise he is a two- edged sword, cuttin' both friiend and foe. So don't blame me if ye run agin him." "I never play," said Hugh; " but thank you all the same." "Folks air up to all kinds o' capers they never do," replied Sloper, philosophically, "when they git enough champagne into 'em. My idee is, to wind up the evenin's amusements at Steve Whipple's. You hev' there a square game, a nice supper, and fewer of the roughs than at these here open institutions."   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        217 "In other words, a hell conducted on aristocratic principles?' Mr. Sloper frowned. "There ain't nuthiri' aristocratic' bout it onless it's givin' credick to likely buckers when they run aout o' tin. The pint is, that up to Steve's they turn for too much money for free fightin' to pay. Consequently it's wuth his while to allow somethin' to the shoulder-hittin' boys to s'tav away." An animated discussion here arose from an attempt on the part of the Doctor to make his escape, having, as he alleged, impor- tant letters to write and further purchases to effect of necessaries to take back to the 'Bar. But the Judge was in that state of mind that he had become extremely obstinate, and he coolly de- clared that if either the General or his British fellow-citizen wanted to leave, they would have to fight him, Skewer, as an in-'  dispensable precedent ; and that, so far at least as that night was concerned, it was his intention to live and die with them. In vain did the Doctor plead hfis engagements, backed by the cor- roborating testimony of Gifford. "You air in a minority, ren- ftemen," said the Judge, appealing   to Sloper, Gallus, and M'Cracken; -' and in this here free country minorities has no rights the majorities are bound to respeck." "But at least," urged the Doctor, " the majority will allow us to go and get our dinners?"                      i "The majority," pronounced the immovable Skewer, " ill dine along with ye ; and from this decision there is no appeal." The rain was falling in torrents, and there really seemed noth- ing better for it than to accept the Judge's proposal that the party should dine together at a celebrated French restaurant hard by; a conclusion to which Hugh and the Doctor soon came.       i -Nor did they  find cause, in a gastronomical sense, to regret    s their acquiescence, since the cuisine and the wines were found to be altogether superior to any they had seen in California. The - market of San Francisco is now famous for its variety and abun-    j dance;  and even in the day we write of, its fish and game, served by French cooks and washed down by French uwines, were conceded even by fastidious travellers to be exceptionally meri-   II torious for so new and so savage a country. Once at table, the  Judge made great efforts to be agreeable, and if he did not in i    5 the very fullest sense succeed, it is but fair to acknowledge that he was often highly amusing.  He gave a graphic account of the    : first discoveries of the gold; showed by what curious vagaries      , of fortune all those who were first on the ground, and who might   IR have rivalled or surpassed Rotchschild in the vastness of their  possessions, had been swindled or cajoled out of their propedrty,  or had been so dazzled by its sudden acquisition that their heads   i 10            1*                 ZJiO        MARIAN ROOUKI; OR,  gave way, and they took to systematic gambling or drinking, or, more frequently, to both. and so ended in utter ruin. He told wondrous stories of people who never before had a second coat, arriving here and becoming millionaires in a month ; of others  who brought capital carefully hoarded by fathers and uncles and ! employers at home. and sent out to found a business under the aun-  spices :of the steady ones who were never known before to take 2 a glass of wine, to 'win or lose sixpence at play, or to look askance at a pretty girl; and how in six months the capital was all in the faro banks, and the steady ones hopelessly engulfed in iAc the lowest depths of dissipation. He described the extraordinary  adventures of Johnny Byng, who!" tapped " all the great banulks of Sacramento in one night, and came down and was himself tap- ii ped, at Whipple's in another ; of how, on being again staked by an old partner, he, had gone up into the interior, and returned in  six weeks with three hundred thousand dollars ; and how Dock- et's bank had agreed to. let him stake two hundred thousand of : it on a single card; and how Johnny lost; but took his other i hundred thousand safely home, settled down on a farm in-r New Jersey, and never gambled more. Then he declared that  ; John C. Fremont was the richest landowner in the world; and A on some faint mention of the names of Westminster and Buc-  cleuch'from the Doctor, swore that the Mariposa property alone  was worth more than double the possessions of both those fortu- nate noblemen put together. The question of property suggest- ed the histories of all manner of lucky tinkers and tailors and  whatnot who had come here miserably poor, and who, by  marrying their washerwomen or being "' agents". for somebody, i had- gownto be stupendously rich. It appearedremarkablehow  often these two rather curious methods of rising in the world had : been adopted by wily adventurers as young Ambition's ladders. But when washing was twenty-four dollars a dozen, and real estate went up cent-per-cent in a month, the modus operandi may g be easily imagined. The Judge was quite right when he cited, i in illustration of the mutability of fortune, the cases of Yankee  snips and pedlers, who used to " cut and make trousers for ten W shillings a pair, trimmings in," or go about pot-mending, and  who to-day swelled in Montgomery Street, the lords of hundred-  vara* lots, and snivelled through their now supercilious noses  about   t my property." When Gifford heard about these/,cases, and many more like  them, he groaned in spirit. Of what use was his education, his  * VARA. The unit of land measurement. being a fraction less than a yard, established by the original settlers of Spanish origin. , *   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       219 thought, sr eadn, his refinement, if tinkers and tailors grasped the prizes nvhch allthese acquisitions would not enable him to wml Indeed, why should men be educated at all, sin e it was cearly unnecessary to gold-winning, and only mae tlem U- hppy when they foundthat those who had it not so ofteh on- stripped them in the riace in spite f  the deficienc Wh u- cate at all in a country wrY          Why edu- cate at all in a country where money is the only god, the sole object of pursuit, the goal of ee aspiration Californi s socially speaking, the mere focali ation of the e ntire country wa and the more tinkers and tailors made fortunes, and the more gentlemen or educated men lost or failed to win them, the sooner vould the Sgeagt denmoratic ideal be attained. Such were Hugh's  thoughts and inferduces but the Doctor, who always seemed judicially inclined when the cment of deduction aemed to be running all one way struck in at a avorable oement I  k Cs vte .ut o as $e,nwe deserat and success--cpacity and  ani that ibr that matter money-worship was gaming proselyteshi very swiftly in Old England herself. So that alig pthoush he did ot expect to se the aseday when, as he had heard was sometimes the case in the States, a carefl investiation nd inventory of a  a t*, id Ithaty toat *eDon itha bm kinr d vpl ovident anottin a o gl Pon      wil je-t he tan iperoincy tan e Uni- e e traditweoul 'oui accoraie1 huttin's downcall di-" .       to the laws of nater a e  oneo which seems to be pa kd h Providentialextione ' odt it sta to reasion f that bime bye yell a to the sae ul    i fltitood, uand measure men by their tdolai  o I me prou OnSt,               mnt that thaboue idee willjest ne th  ere:ainq o wy ao 3 his'll sSto pei  smedifferences betw een the Judget ae  W 1te anu   oeedcd ii the, utuost hamony.   , t 't '  .  I'," ou r eloridus o. .. as your friend is a Britisheo n  we ugs,/    to Pick UP right idees 'bout our glorious instertoo-  altitood and .- . . . . . . .  .  . ..    i iii^ Y ehesae rod      I!   220        MARIAN ROOK;; OR, Messrs. Gallus and McCracken had, in the meanwhile, aug- -mented the advantage of their superior natural capacities by eat- . ing in vigorous silence, so that they had far outstripped their companions in the demolition of rather more than their share of  the viands. Copious draughts of fiery whiskey, which they de-  clared to be infinitely preferable to " that sour French swill," had  washed down theirfood, and had been followed in turn by gigan- i tic plugs of tobacco, which almost answered the purpose of gags; ? since if either of them were addressed it was observed that some time elapsed, and much preliminary extrusion of saliva interven-  ed, before he was in a safe condition to reply. These gentle- ? men now began to rasp their feet uneasily on the floor, to wink /significantly at each other, and to otherwise express discontent with their present monotonous surroundings ; and the Judge at : last satisfied their yearning souls by suddenly rising, announcing that this court was now adjourned, and that it was time to think i about chasing the eagle. "'Steve's?" interrogated Sloper.  j "Steve's," responded the Judge; and having paid the bill, which ? he insisted upon doing, and silenced remonstrance by swearing S that he'd draw on any man who tried to quit the crowd, the whole party made swift march through the rain, until they  I!!- reached the doorway of the renowned "Steve," then the prince of the " sporting" fraternity in the golden city.  The establishment to which -our friends now sought admittance  was perhaps the most sumptuously furnished which could have been found in that day on the Pacific coast. Rooms and stair- g cases were covered by the rilchest carpetings, into which the feet  sank noiselessly, and which, to the eye, were mossy banks of  flowers. The walls were hung in the costhest manner in various delicate tints set off by slender threads of gold; and there were paintings upon them which, if of smaller size, were of far higher grade than those in-the garish saloons of the square. The ceil- ings were elegantly frescoed, and there depended from them  0 tasteful chandeliers whose lights were softened by ground glass shades of a curious and unique pattern. The furniture was either - of rosewood or of solid, unpolished black walnut, and the side-  boards of some of the rooms blazed with utensils nqt of silver alone but of the more precious metal. In the apartment next adjoining that which guests first entered, a supper table was laid j whose' appointments the most fastidious must have approved. The linen, the plate, the glass, were unexceptionable. The flowers which formed centres for the principal groups were ex- { quisite in colors and in perfume. The wines, whether of the ' sorts standing in the coolers or otherwise disposed, gave every   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE,       221 sign of excellence ; and such of the' viands as were served cold, such as game, fowls, galantines, and the like, intrinsically, as well as in respect of garniture, afforded similar evidences of their quality. In effect there was nothing which -money could buv which was not lavishy bestowed to add to the fascinations oif the scene. Nor was it difficult to obtain admission for the free enjoyment of these pleasures. Whatever afforded presumptive evidence that the applicant was notabsolutely without cash seem ed to be sufficient to insure his welcome, provided he'were  known or introduced by some one who was. On the present occasion, the decorous black who officiated as Cerberus in a small hall between the street and an inner door recognized Judge  Skewer with a respectful grin, and passed his companions with- out inquiry or comment; and; after ascending a broad and'easy  staircase, they found themselves in what appeared to be the prin-  cipal hall of play.                       . The door to this apartment which opened on the passage was aar, and no one mounting the stairs would have supposed from   i* the silence that some twenty persons were in it. Such, however,  was the fact. A  long green table ran about half the length of  one side of the room, and around it sat a group of men almost as  speechless as if they,constituted a meeting of Friends. A  very I handsome hale-faced man, with snowy finelrs and diamond rings,  sat behind the table and dealt cards from a silver box.  Before -0 him were ranged the thirteen cards ofa single suit, firmly pasted !'{ to the cloth ;, and on these cards were piles of round"checks or i chips made of bone or  ivory of clifferent colors and sizes, and : whichl represented various Sums, from a dollar to five hundred. There were also gold coins here and there, the bank freely ac-  cepting bets in actual money as well as in its representations. - Moreover there  were one or two pieces of paper lying on or be-  tween certain cards ; these were checks on local banks staked by persons whose responsibility was  known or approved by the   I banker. On   his right was a handsome box in which were dis-  posed coin, checks, and a great many additional 'packs of cards.  Next this again were symmetrical piles of the  "chips," which  were sold to any 'itending player, and redeemed at his pleasure  when he chose  to desist. Besilethe banker there sat an assist-- ant whose  cduty it was to overlook the game and see that no minis- takies, intentional or other, should occur to the disadvantage ofthe ' concern. Sometimes the banker would name the cards  when he turned them as they alternately lost and won; but there was    { scarcely an  other sound, save the  slight noise made by the fall- ing cards, to break A silence which was almost oppressive. Xiii *         e             S!   222        MARIAN ROOKE; OK , The pervading stillness had its effect upon even the boister- ous spirit of Judge Skewer, and it was quite in a whisper that he said to the Doctor as they advanced into the room, ' Don't hev' nuthin' o' this kind on your benighted sile, I reckon!" and with a considerable affectation of courtliness that he bowed to one or two of the company, who were sufficiently interested in the new comers to raise their eyes. Most of them were ab- sorbed-transfixed-their whole souls speaking through their eyes, which were glued to some particular bit of pasteboard on the table before them. These men were of a better class than *most of those in the public resorts. Well dressed, chiefly- some with reverend white hair, many who had all the outer ap- pearance of gentlemen-these were of the merchants, lawyers, and bankers of the rising city. It was noticeable that the per- son who was dealing was gentlemanly, almost distinguished in his bearing; and Doctor Landale, with his old-world experience, thought he had never seen one of his profession whose manners so little betrayed his calling. Notwithstanding his being so act- ively engaged, this man had a ready word and a courteous smile for his fresh customers. "Good evening, Judge-your servant, Marshall-quite well, Mr. McCracken?-most happy, I'm sure-Ace loses, Jack wins -friends, too, most welcome-a split ten-Antony, chairs for the gentlemen-I pay the deuce-chips, Judge -Oh yes, plenty of room-fifty and the coppered bet are seventy-five- thank you, sit-Ace loses again-a bad ace and a dead kinmg. The Doctor and Hugh followed the example of their conduc- tor, and bought a few of the tempting symbols. A man was really ashamed, as they both thought, to go into a place like that and not pay a trifle towards its enormous cost; it was to such a delicate sentiment as this that the bank was monthly in- debted for solid thousands. Meanwhile the Judge planted him- self on the left hand and next to the dealer, whom he accosted as "Leo nidas, and Messrs. Gallus and McCracken having sand- wiched themselves into eligible positions, the game proceeded with increased spirit and interest. Presently Leonidas made some sotto voce statement to his neighbor. "Show!" admired Skewer. "Fact," affirmed the dealer. "How long?"               i "Forty-eight hours at four o'clock to-day-nothing on the queen-and five makes fifty-three." "That's an awful long sittin'. (I'm goinl' on that queen agin if I bust.) And how do they propel respectin' grub and rumn '   THE QUEST F'R FORTNE.         223 "W hy, Antony and Pomp keep them going. The pot cop- ' pered for all, gentlemen? All right, now I understand it. There's a regular express between Franois in the kitchen and  ' r ,ewen r ragos in the kitchen and Number Five, Judge, and that's the way of it. All down? Four loses, five wins." From such words as the preceding it became apparent to any one who, like Gifford and the Doctor took notice of them; that aremarkable seance was in progress at the room called by the dealer Number Five; and, as successive hints revealed the de- tails,'they became cognizant of the interesting fact that General Snagge, Governor Bragge, and Judge Quagge had been gambling together at poker there, since some time the day before yester- day; during which interval a hundred thousand dollars had changed hands; and six dozen of champagne been emptied. Having mastered this piece of intelligence, our two friends were both highly edified by the rapidity with which their modest little capitals of twenty-five dollars each were melting away 'n the chances of the game. Presently Hugh had but five left and the Doctor eight. "Confidence," said Leonidas blandly, "confidence wins the game.  Might as well bet a hundred as one, and double each time you lose. Must win at last. Nine and seven, I see, sir ; and a nine loses, 'seven wins is a stand-off." "The nine's a case," said Judge Skewer, "and I'm a goin to back it with all my bones." . Here Mr. Sloper, who for some reason had detached himself from the party on entering the house, stalked into the apart- ment. "I like to git posted," he explained in an undertone as he squeezed himself into a seat next to Hugh, "as to whatfolks is a doin' of 'bout the premises; and there's the gol-darndest, three- storied, ground-and-lofty poker fight progressin in the sky par- lor as I ever heerd tell on ; likewise I've riz a stake by a small dicker in cigars." "'Back the nine, Lafe," suggested the Judge. "Only one on 'em in, and I've jest dumped my hull pile on it." "That bein' the case," responded Mr. Sloper, "I reckon I'll hev to copper. It runs agin my style to bet agen the bank when it's turnin' for a hull pile." As the speaker put a little Chinese or Japanese coin on his stake, which implied that he backed the card to lose, a dark man who had a considerable sum also on the nine, did the same thing, just an instant before the dealer turned. "Five'loses-Jack wins. All down?  Six loses, queen wins." ,    224         BRIAN ROOKE; OR,'  "Cuss that queen," anathematized the Judge; "I left her jest atthe wrong time." "Ace loses, deuce wins. Nine loses, queen wins.9' Two hunderd on the deal," lamented Skewer. "That comes o' you copperin' mybet, Lafe. Don't do it agin, now, or I'll git sassy." "This takes the five and seven," said the dark man, laying down a hunderd dollars on a corner of the five. "Very good, sir. Two turns more in, gentlemen, or three. Five loses, seven wins ; a stand-off, Mr. Du Solle. All ready? Why, Antony, where are you going with that brandy V" - Judge Quagge, sir, he sick o, de dam wishy-washy, sody- mead wine. He say de General and de Gubenor make him ner- vous wid it, so's to shaken him grip." ' Give him my compliments-Mr. Darell's compliments-and tell him to try a little absinthe. Four loses, ace wins. Nothing like absinthe after a heavy siege. Eight loses, seven wins. You're beating us heavily this deal, Mr. Du Solle." The dark man smiled but said nothing, and Mr. Sloper promptly coppered the seven, thinking that next time it was likely to lose. No use buckin' agen luck," groaned Judge Skewer ; 'how do you stand, Marshal '9- "Two hundred in." "Jest lend us a hunderd, then, and I9'll see if I can't fetch up on the next box. You're bitter-water to-night, Lonny, you are." "The fortune of war, Judge. We can't always win,you know. The bank's out heavily on the week:" "Is that so? What does Steve say to that?" "What does he care?! said Leonidas, carelessly; " with five hundred thousand ahead since the first of May." ' Five hunderd thousand ahead! Seems to me if I had that I'd jest shet Van and slope for hum!  "Home's a fool to this place ; and he'd rather run the bank and 0lose than knock off altogether. New deal, gentlemen. All ready now for a lively turn. What'll you take, Judge? Come, gentlemen, give your oiders. Pomp, take the gentle- mef s orders."          ' "Yis, sar!' ": 'Nine champagnes,four brandy and water, three whiskey neat, two sherries, two soda cocktails, two midnight warblers, one iced water! And a box of cigars!" "Yis, sar." "Give me some more chips, Lonny. I'll make a break this time, or spill my hearth's best blood!"9 or ^,                  -    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       225 "All right, Judge. Twenty-five, fifty, seventy-five, and a hundred. A tremendous yell here rang through the upper part of the house, followed by cries of apparent remonstrance and expostula- tion. "What the devil's that?" cried half-a-dozen voices. "Don't be alarmed, gentlemen," said Leohidas, with his per- petual suave smile. Nothing broke, I dare say. Watch the game, Augustus. Now, Antony, what is it?" "Judge Quagge, sir, him have jest little tech of the man wid the poker arter him; and Gineral Snagge and. Governor Bragge and Massa Steventhey are jest a sittin' on him little while, til he stop him shakin'!"             ' "4Oh, that's all, is it? Shouldn't have taken the brandy. This is my bitters, gentlemen," said the dealer, showing his hand- some teeth and tapping the tumbler of iced wiater beside him. "HeIe we go again! All ready and nobody left behind." Don't see what a man shouldhev the horrors fur," grumbled Sloper morosely, " with only forty-eight hours trainin'. There's them down our way that case-hardened they don't see snakes under a week!  I reckon I could travel four days, and I ain't much accaount."     -  "Ah," said Judge Skewer, pathetically, " it's these 'ere new ways as knocks the bottom   out. Nater can't be expected to wrastle with this outlandish French muck like as when she had old Rye to lean agen.  I kin drink champagne, I kin, and I like it; but I don't feel -merself the man I was when I ante'd on whiskey straight and didn't go nuthin'better." "King wins, five loses. Come  down, gentlemen. Eight loses, tray wins. - Tray loses, eight wins; a repeater backwards. King wins, five loses again; the cards are bewitched. You're winning fast enough this time, Judge!' On'y a hunderd, so fur. There'syour moneyback, Malachi, and darned lucky you air to git it. Gin'rally speakin' I take thirty days for them debts. 'That man's goin' in heavy," con- trned the Judge, in an undertone to Gifford. "See! He's got five hunderd on the king to win a third tirme-a bad bet I call  it, but then you can't tell nuthin' about old Phalraoh. There he goes, by thunder!" "King loses, ten wins. Five hundred again, Mr. Du Solle?" The dark man had not spoken before, nor did he move a mus- cle when he lost his late heavy bet; but he replied briefly to the dealer's question: "A thousand, if you'll take the bet." 7 ' i'.   i 226        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, Leonidas hesitated. "Two hundred,. cold, is the rule, you know, sir; and we've exceeded it several times; however, we'll take the bet for once. Shall I give you more checks, sir 9, "I've no more money. Just hand me that pen."   The speaker tore a leaf from a small book which he took from his breast, hastilly filled up a check, and threw it carelessly across the table, saying, I That will do, I suppose." "Thanks, -yes," replied' Leonidas, just running his eye over the writing, "perfectly well, Mr. Du Solle." A fourth time that name! And Hugh, absorbed in the unu- sual scene, or interested in his own or the Doctor's vicissitudes, had taken no heed; but, as the dealer tossed the slip of paper he had glanced at on the top of others lying in his box, Hugh's eye involuntarily followed it and read there: "Burgoyne and Co. Pay to Bearer One Thousand Dollars. Pierre Du Solle." At the same moment Leonidas handed over two large ivory circles, each representing five hundred dollars, and which the dark man immediately placed on the king. 4'All-ready, gentlemen? All down?" Hold yer bosses, Lonny!" exclaimed Judge Skewer; "I'm a goin' to copper that king!" "Me, too,' echoed Sloper, Gallus, and McCracken; but their aggregate stakes were much less than the dark man's sin- gle one. "All down?  Ace loses, deuce wins. King loses, queen wins." Mr. Du Solle rose quietly and lit a cigar. - Will you take two thousand on the next case king? Either to win or lose?" "Well, sir, you know two hunchdred, cold, is the rule," re- peated Leonidas, smiling with even more than his usual urban- ity; " but since you are a heavy loser, sir, we will transcend it for once." Again a check was filled up and handed over; and again the ceremony of passing over in return the ivory sytibols. This time, however, the recipient waited until three of his favorite kings had been dealt off before placing his stake; and this time he backed the king to lose. "I'm goin' a hundred on that king!" proclaimed Skewer with alacrity, and "Me too!" again echoed Sloper, and Gallus and McCracken. "All right, gentlemen," quoth the affable Leonidas, ' and all down. Pomp, give me a cigar. Ten loses, nine wins; and a queer nine it's been to-night. Queen loses, ace wins. Keep your eyes open, Augustus. Six loses, king wins!"   TIE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        227 Mr. Du Solle again rose, but this time he sauntered coolly to- wards the door. No more checks, sir?" asked the dealer. "None, thank you. Ten thousand is enough for one night" and he disappeared. "I say, Lonny," said the Judge, softly, "you kind o' cooked him." "Nonsense," returned Lonny; " he won twice the sum here yesterday." "Git aout! Did he, though?" "Fact. But I didn't deal. You see there's a difference in men's luck when---" He was interrupted by the outhurst of an uproar above ten times more hideous than before; but the sounds were not con- fined to shoutings and strugglings like the last. For suddenly there came the sharp report of a pistol-shot; then another, another and another, until the listeners had counted five. "Sit still, gentlemen, sit still," cried the imperturbable Leoni- das; "nothing but a bit of fun above, I dare say.  Quick, Pomp, and let us know what's up. Watch the game, Augus- tus. Here's Antony!   What is it, Antony?"  "Nuffin, Massa Lonny, least, nuffin much. You see, Massa, Judge Quagge and Gub'nor Bragge hab a little. difficulty and draw'd.  And Gineral Snagge comin' between to keep  'em peaceable   , they both jest sot to, and went to firin' into the Gineral!" "Good Heavens!" cried Gifford and the Doctor, rising' aghast.  "Is he dead?" exclaimed the o6thers, one or two making for the door. "Guess he'm hurt a good deal, gemmen, 'cause he didn't fire back; but he ain't dead." And the negro rushed out with what he had been sent to-fetch, nearly knocking down another just running in.   ,       -  "Quick now, Pomp, what's the word? Is the General killed?" "Oh no, Massa. On'y knocked him ear off wid one shot, and anoder shoot him troo de libber. Him all right in a weeks I reckon." "Nuthin' but a one-horse fight, arter all," said Sloper, vin- dictively. "Do go on with the game, can't ye, Lonny?" asked Skewer, with impatience. "D-n the game!" cried the Doctor, starting off to the relief *      a         -   228         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, of the suffeer, closely followed by Gifford, who was not sory to / avail himself of the chance, since it had arisen, to escape from the clutches of his extraordinary companions. CHlAPTER VI. 31ArIAr had more reasons than one to fortify her resolution to ,leave California. It is probable that had she found, on first arriving in the country, so congenial and refined a tome as had been hers in the quiet French family with whom she now resided, she would have esteemed it a rare good fortune, and would gladly have accepted its permanent protection. But several events had since fallen out to modify her views, and which promised, indeed, altogether to change her intended future. The letter she had last received from her father's friend in Europe contained expres- sions which were as potent in determining her actions as per- emptory commands would have been from that father himself. "It is necessary," he wrote, "for the sake of my dear friend's memory as well as for that of his daughter, that she and I should meet at an early day, that matters should be disclosed which are unsuitable to a correspondence, and that investigations should be made of a nature requiring both your concurrence and my own to render them complete and satisfactory. I should do less than my duty did I not urge immediate attention to these points as sacredly due to yourself and to the -character of your dead father." The letter concluded with a repeated desire that Marian should meet the writer at New York within a given date, and enclosed a letter of credit, which under any circumstances would afford her ample means. There needed, then, no conscientious scruples respecting her relations with Gifford to urge her departure; since she would equally have felt bound to depart had none such existed. But there was, besides, a third reason for such a step, which had scarcely less weight than either of the others; and it need scarcely be said that this was the presence of the man whom Hugh had chanced to meet at the gaming house. There was nothing singular in the circumstance that Du Solle should have bent his steps to California. Many men of his stamp found their way there in the early days, and find their way there perhaps still. He had, moreover, a load on his breast--a dark stain   s!     THE. QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        229 on his conscience-which not unnaturally might urge him to travel, to hurry from place to place, that he might escape in fresh distractions the constant thought of that ineffaceable deed within. Marian had no idea that there was any sinister connection between her presence in San Francisco and this man's arrival there. But she knew of his coming-had seen him indeed in the streets- and she felt she could not breathe the same air with that inhaled by the slayer of her father. When Gifford saw her therefore on the following day, the last day, as he thought, they might ever meet for converse such as then they had, alone and undisturbed, he scarcely required her renewed explanation as to the necessity for her going to New York, to understand lher conviction that the necessity existed for her quitting San Francisco. He had felt instinctively, when reading his name on the check, that there was no doubt as to the man's identity; and the repugnance with whichsuch a presence inspired himself, remembering as he did every detail of Marian's sad story, readily supplied a measure for estimating its effect upon her. He well knew that with such a nature as Marian's, every day, almost every hour, must be a separate pain when thus living in the same place, funning the constant risk of encounter in its contracted limits with one whose relation to her in each of its wretched features had been that of Pierre Du Solle. And the more hethought of it, the more he himself seemed to dislike the idea of her remaining. Go back to the Bar she could or would not. She felt that, even before he had been irresistibly tempted to propose it; and that was the only alternative left since she. could notremain where she was. This was to be their last meeting, then. For although Hugh was to see Marian on board the steamship, yet the family, who were full of kindness, would-also be there, and so, for that matter, would the Doctor ; and thus this was practically their last meet- ing. It was a very, very sad one. Heaven knows there are ills and pains and trials enough-for its own wise purposes-in this strange world of ouir's; but I know of no trial more sharp, no pain more acute, no ill more hopeless than that of two beings who might make each other very, very happy, and who feel in their innermost souls that they could increase each for the other its highest capacity for good works, and who yet, for duty's sake, for conscience' sake, for justice' sake, must say that bitter good bve to each other for .ever; must take up their weary crosses to struggle on in this gloomy pilgrimage by paths which shall never meet again. , The meeting was a very sad one, and we will not linger over   *    230         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, its details. But there was no talk of love in it. That ground was banned, tabooed, forbidden. There was no talk of love; but there was a strange, sorrowful undertone accompanying everything that was said, and whispering of yearnings crushed, of hopes never to be fulfilled, of a life to come full of weariness, and blackness, and despair. To be sure there were bits and flashes of gaiety, like those threads of gold Spanish women delight in having shot here and there through their sombre dresses; but the undertone of sorrow, the background of gloom was ever present,. and the threads only made it look the blacker. Marian had her package ready; the package of little offerings which Gifford was to take home to the Bar, and not to open until he got there. And she had many fond and loving mes- sages to send to her kind friends the Armstrongs; nor was any one forgotten, indeed, of all the little circle. They were to re- member that, after all, she and they might be together once more. For, might not Mr. Armstrong get rich enough to buy the old homestead at Saybrook? And was not that within a very short distance by rail firom New York? And might they not then see as much of each other as ever? She, Marian, hoped so. Nay, she even felt sure of it. But she did not express, even if she felt, any such aspiration, any such certainty as to meeting Hugh again. It was wiser not to wish such a thing, wiser even if wished not to say it. I must affirm, without intending to enter into the vexed ques- tion touching the relative moral or intellectual inferiority of the sexes, that, so far as this man and this woman were concerned, she was the better and the stronger. She knew, or felt certain now, that Hugh loved her; but nothing could make her let him see that she knew it. If he knew that she loved him-which he did not know-he would, I fear, have been neither so mag- nanimous nor so brave; he would nothave resisted temptation so courageously, he would not have respected the rights of another so religiously. He had many good qualities, had Hugh; ay, and nobler Obnes than the world has given him credit for before or per- haps since; but I seekto describe hm ashe was, andnot to depict as a perfect monster a creature not without faults. To which it may be urged that my account of Marianis inconsistent with such a profession; but I do not fear that any man who has seen much of the world will challenge my accuracy when I say that perfection, if impossible, is more possible with the opposite sex than his own. For my part, I have no hesitancy in declaring that, consider- ing all the hard and unsympathizing character of his boyish sur- roundings-considering his original nature, so sensitive, so re-   231 THE QUEST   FOR FORTUNE. ; served and so proud; considering the oblique warp which injus- tice and harsh treatment had begotten, received among people who dislikdel him because they did not understand him, or be- cause he wasdierent from themselves, or because they disliked or did not understand his parents, or because he or they were oor--I sa y, i .egding all these, things, Hugh Gifford became in time a better man than might have been expected. Neither do I shrink from expressing my belief that much that was sweet, and straightforward, and true in Marian's character owed its develop- ment, if not its existence, to the happy, generous abundance and trusting fondness which- hedged around her childhood. There are many things in every-day life which appear mysteri ous and complex, but which analysis resolves into very simple elements. If the two had been changed in childhood, Marian  might have been a sort of Jane Eyre ; an hd Iugh would ha-ie own up a gay and reckless cavaier perhaps; so perhaps it is just as well that they were not. I called on Marian that afternoon to say my adieux-l-or we had always been and always will be the best of friends--and on my way to the door I met Hugh; and he looked like a very sul- len, and morose, and miserable man; and Marian, although her eyes were a little red, looked like a saint; and this, it struck me, veor fainly represent heir two characters at the then stage of their experience-at 'the point which each had then attained in'their pilgrimage t  hrough the world. CHAPTER VII. IT was not -the easiest thing imaginable to find a lodfging at this time in San Francisco. Much of the popfulation, as has already been observed, lived under canvas. any slept oni board the innumerable old ships in the harbor ; some slept under the the insatiable gamblers and ther streams of hallucinated custom- ers became at last wearied and exhausted, there was a claimant for' every betting-board, for every billiard-table, and for every counter. Buildings were going up, it is true, with great radity - but population was pouring in with a rapidity greater raffdityl ; Dbu poulat'* grea still; so that every tent, shed, shop, and wareouse had its con- trivances for dormitories, its complement of sleepers. There   232       , MARIAN ROOKE; OR were hotels too; but they were, to speak mildly, of indifferent character, and moreover, they were incredibly dealr; therefore Hugh Gifford and Dr. Landale did not patronize the Oriental or the Tehama House; they took the advice of AIl. Sloper, who recom- mended an attic in a new three-storied warehouse on Sacramento Street, and where, if furniture and attendance were of the scan- tiest, the price was moderate and the situation convenient. Into this rather exceptionally lofty apartment the Doctor and Hugh had conveyed their various purchases; consisting of chugs, dry goods, seeds, agricultural implement, powder and shot, and other useful articles which they were to take with themn on their return to Armstrong's Bar. Hliere also was Marian's package; and here the- two came to sleep on the night, before the day of her departure. The Doctor had proposed returning to Sacra- mento en route for home that afternoon, but willingly deferred to Gifford's wishes and the representation that the Armstrongs would be so much the better pleased to know that they had seen their protegee safely on her voyage. The companions were both weary of the perpetual and monot- onous sights and sounds of dissipation and debauchery of which two days sufficed to furnish a repletion, and had conversed to a late hour on the evils and drawhacks: of the infant civilization which the gold discovery was forcing into so swift and abnor- mal a growth. They had discussed, and agreed, and argued about old societies and new societies, and the comparative ad- vantages and disadvantages of republican or monarchical systems as applied to both, and the probable future of California, and that of the whole country, and the general effect upon national policy of that peculiar hatred of England which the immigrant Irish and their descendants, and English and Scotch co-mates in exile as well, were at such pains to keep alive and to disseminate, and divers cognate subjects, until their eyelids could no longer wag. These matters, although of an eminently suggestive, were by no means of a lightsome or inspiriting character, and when Hugh fell asleep it was no great wonder that his mind rambled iito regions more picturesque and fanciful. He dreamed thathe had become enormously rich, but that old Mr. Chester, through some extraordinary concatenation, refused to let Virginia marry him because he was so poor; and how he travelled across the sea to the Old World his waking dreams in boyhood used to dwell so mush upon; and how many a gray old cathedral, many an historic castle, crumbling, yet majestic, how many a Gothic bra- ver of the centuries, and many a lovely, winding, copse-embow-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        233 ered road, had filled up his unsatisfied longings, had supplied the something to imagination, the color to the blank, ugly common- place of existence which a life passed among steeples made of white boards, and mansions like shoe boxes, and treeless wastes which fear of Indians had denuded and idiotic tastelessness had left so, and intercrossing roads like chess boards, and a host of other antithetical disagreeables had left empty and sterile. Then, from these merely physical contrasts, his mind passed to spirit- ual ones. He dreamed that he had become a much better and nobler man than' he ever yet had been. That, casting selfishness and indolence and morbid egotism behind him, he was pressing forward with earth's brightest and best, doing battle in the very van, for human rights, for human progress, for immutable truth, for celestial justice which was to bed one on earth. And out of that idea of something celestial was evolved a most lovely and roseate halo at the end of a glorious perspective, to be reached through stress of glorious deeds; and in that halo stood Marian, smiling and beckoning him to her arms, as the crown and re- ward of his labors. But to reach her, much must still be accomplished. The path was beset with difficulties, there were many stalwart opponents to overcome, many a barrier to overthrow or to overleap. Yet WhOat would not Hugh do and dare with such a prize as his ulti- r mate reward? On he rushed, now smiting down an adversary, now rolling in the dust himself; sometimes discomfited but always recovering, straining on through all and in spite of all towards his goal. At last he saw it close at hand, but before he could quite attain the shrine, before he could clasp Marian's snowy  hand and claim it as his own, he must encounter one adversary more terrible than all the others, a gigantic dark-faced Being, whose features were those of the murderer-gamester, Du Solle. This horrible figure wielded a huge battle-axe, with which he carved vast circles through the air within its radius. It would seem that nothing could come within that radius and live. Yet must the attempt be made. With desperate resolution did Hugh spring within the enchanted circle; but as he did 'so, uplifting sword and shield to guard his head, his foot slipped in a viscous puddle which seemed of human gore. As he fell, he saw Marian s smile of inviting tenderness change to a scowl of gloomy con- tempt  As he fell, he saw the huge battle-axe of the arch-enemy descending with lightning rapidity. It was rushing down with a hurtling roar Another instant it would crush-did crush him -with an irresistible force, and he felt his own blood running into and blinding his eyes! By a despairing effort he dashed   234         MARPAX ROOKE; OR, aside the gore and stared before him; immediately opposite, with his head thrust through a shattered panel of the chamber door, were the imperturbable features of Mr. Sloper, and on the pillow beside him was that gentleman's sombrero, which had been launch- ed with such accuracy as to strike Hugh between the eyes and so recall him to consciousness. "Air you two goin' to git fried or biled this mornin?" inquired Lafayette. "Or," he added, sarcastically, "hev ye an itch for gittin' griddled? There ain't much time for ch'ice, the hull town bein' afnire, and the next buildin' in a light blaze!" To rush to the window and dash it open, and thus to verify the truth of Mr. Sloper's assertion, was the work of Fn instant. It took scarcely another for Hugh to rouse the. Doctor, to un- lock the door, and to hurry on such of his garments a4 he had doffed for the night. "I couldn't make ye hear by hollerin, " observed Mr. Sloper, quietly taking a chew of tobacco, " nor yit bust the lock off .by kickin' ; so I did the next best thing and smashed mi the panel with a harmer. Reckon ye'd have got roasted in ten minutes more!" "Good Heavens!" cried the Doctor, dividing his time be- tween a hasty toilette, the-collection of his medicines, and rapid reconnoitring from the windows. "How is it? How did it happenr?" "Old Nick knows," returned Lafayette, " and he won't tell. Alter the big mucchants hev sold off all their truck and got the dust, some folks think they kind o' git up this sort of thing as a clearin' out sale; so's to send accaounts to consignors that the'ir goods is stepped aout. But ye'd best scratch gravel if ye don't want your har frizzled!"  Here the speaker discovered that there were some boxes, well nailed and secured, stored at one end of the room, and with great skill and celerity he broke one of them open with his "harmer."  An exclamation followed by the knocking off of the neck of a bottle at once revealed the nature of the contents --foreign spirits-wherewith Mr. Sloper instantly made intimate acquaintance. Not content with this, he straightway began to drop the boxes out of window, to which employment he appear- ed to be stimulated by the outcries and remonstrances from the now swarming crowd below. That the bottles would almost certainly break and the contents be wasted in the process gave Lafayette no apparant concern. He seemed to consider the oc- casion a sort of repetition --of "a Time," and one on which his - singular passion for uproar and grotesque confusion might safe-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         235 ly be indulged. Having thrown out all the boxes, he now pro- ceeded to hurl out the beds, followed by the chairs and tables of the room, until a general roar of execration from below and the exhaustion of material induced him to desist. "4 By hokey!" he suddenly exclaimed at this stage of his pro- ceedings, "I snum, I forgot to tell ye that thar's a kag fill o'r pound canisters o' gunpowder down close to the doom, and like enough we'd better vacate, quicker!"  This startling intelligence was followed by a retreat more rapid than dignified, Hugh clinging fast to .Marian's package as the Doctor did to his drugs. They had scarcely quitted the build- ing before it was enveloped in flames; and although the "kag" of gunpowder-which was a receptable of the size of a pipe- had been rolled down the street and into the dock at its foot, the danger of stayifig much longer in the building would scarcely have been greater had it remained. For the fire spread with appalling swiftness. It sprang from the windows whence Sloper had cast the boxes almost as soon as they reached the street; and in five minutes more it was leaping and running and greedily lilcking at every scrap of wood-work, so that the mass looked like a fiery cage. Nearty the whole town was indeed, as Sloper said, in flames. Almost entirely built as it was of the lightest and most inflam- mable materials, a long and unusually dry season had prepared it for destruction in a manner which the first few days of rain had done little to neutralize. Houses of pine boards, houses of can- vas, houses said to be of iron, but which looked like shirred zinc, were swept away, licked up, rolled up, like so much paste- board or parchment, as the devouring element flew ruthlessly on. As usual, a high wind lent fury to the flames, and as men rushed hither and thither in all the -mad excitement and confusion which great danger and swift destruction so often engender, there were vague rumors passing from lip to lip of human beings further "up town, " who had perished miserably, roasted in their beds. The fire was sweeping towards the bay; and as it came crushing and devastating on, there passed before it a fringe of carts, boxes and chattels of numberless descriptions, which the owners or others had rescued from destruction, and which still retreated be- fore the victorious enemy as he marched nearer and nearer to the bay. Before him, all was a glittering, fleeing, smoke-swathed crush; behind, a mere barren, blackened char. Presently the streets themselves-they were all made of planks in those days- were caught by the flames, and further and further the fringe of people and their goods were foreedtowards the water. A lit-   tle more and the fringe would be overtaken and consumed. All manner of efforts were made to stop the pirogress of the toe  --tearing down, blowing up, drenching him with the waters of 0 thesea-butin vain. March intriumph he would to the very  i edge and border of the bay. Then the people and their proper- i tywere driven to a new expedient; they removed each and all-- their goods and their persons-to the long wharves, produced from the principal streets, and stretching at right angles to the. shore-orth into the harbor; they carried all to these havens of  safety, and then with axes they cut the wharves away and isola-  ted themselves from the main land.      -: On one of these wharves stood the Doctor surrounded by , claret boxes, cooking-stoves, wheelbarrows, crates of crockery,  and almost every conceivable article of furniture, clothing and I general household gear.  He had been deserted by histwo con- i panions, for Hugh had flown like the wind to assure himself of the , safety of Iarian, and Mr. Sloper was making himself more busy I than he ever was before in his life in numberless mysterious ope- rations connected with salvage, waifs and strays, and other dis- ; interested supervision of other people's goods. In a few min- il utes more, the conflagration had extended so that scarcely any- thing of the shore could be seen. There were vast ,columns of X rolling and eddying smoke; black, brown, and blue, mixed here  and there with white vapor; at intervals a fierce, reddening I glare told where the fire raged hottest; at intervals a dull explo- sion told where the engineers were blowing up buildings to stop  the progress of the flames; yet there was little to see or hear, towards the land, save the repetition of these same sights and sounds. Butinthebaythere were now swift motion-and excite-  ment; for the ships began to be warped or tugged from their dangerous berths at the wharves, and two or three of them were already on fire. Then those adjacent commenced frantic efforts : to escape from their -dangerous neighbors, and the air rang with shouts and imprecations from the imperilled craft, each struggling  to avoid the others;              ,  Small time bhad the Doctor to admire either the picturesque- ness or the horrors of the scene, for soon two or three poor fel-  lows with mangled limbs, dragged from the fire where they had  been striving to6save life or property, and who in so doing had been crushed by falling beams, were brought in boats to the wharf; and, at once volunteering his aid, he was quiclytoo much engrossed for any cares beside the merciful ones of his calling.  Meanwhile Hugh had flown through the town, many times thwarted in the direction he strove to tale by the flames, but sue'   THE QUEST FORI FORTUNE.       237 - ceeding at last in reaching the house of M. Bellot. Happily it   i was a considerable distance to windward of the spot where the  ?! conflagration had originated, and there was no anxiety on the: part of the inmates as to their own safety. But Marian could  not well conceal the joy with which she saw Gifford alive and well; for the calamity had befallen with even greater than com-  mon rapidity, and she had already heard that persons had per-   ; ished in the flames, and well knew that Hugh's lodging was    ! directly in the track over which the wind would carry them.    J There was, however, no time for sentiment, since M. Bellot had ascertained from the officials that the steamship would sail with-  out regard to the fire;. and that, indeed, as a change of wind might endanger her own berth and make it necessary to drop- into the stream before the hour fixed for sailing, it would be well forpassengers to go on board directly. Marian's luggage had    i already been despatched, and after much embracing of the weep-  ing family, and innumerable kisses of the children, who were in-  consolable because not allowed to see their governess to the    i ship, herself, M. Bellot, and Gifford entered the carriage which   was waiting at the door and drove at once to the "Golden Age."rk The great black steamer was heaving and throbbing convul-si sively; for steamwas up, and the fierce blasts of white vapor were ; driving through her pipes with a hoarse, warning cry, which rose   above the crumbling roar of the conflagration.  Through two  {  gangways running from the wharf, up and down her steep sides, a restless mass of human beings were crowding, jostling  H and struggling as if their lives depended on getting that very   I instant on or off the ship. There were crowds of successful mi- ; ners, of ingenious agents, of promoted tailors, of artful adventure-  ers who had married great washerwomen, of cabmen become     ! millionaires, of scholars playing porter and carrying trunks and bags as they forced their way up the critical incline, of lucky   gamblers, of magnificent nigger singers, of gorgeously peremp-  ! tory ladies of the town, some going, some here to bid adieu to    others who were going, but all crowding, jostling, struggling as : if it were their last day to live, or as if they composed an Amer- ican assemblage of the olden time on its way to dinner. Through such a mass of seething humanity did Hugh and M.   jV Bellot almost carry Marian up the gangway, feeling when they ' got to the top much as warriors must feel who have carried' an enemy's rampart at the point of the bayonet.. Once there, the,  task was somewhat easier, although by no means finished. They had next to find Marian's state-room, which she was to    i share with a lady, a relative of the captain's wife, who accompa- i : ;l   238        MARIAN RO6KE; OR, nied him on the passage. While Hugh devoted himself to this search, the Frenchman, with his usual promptness aud good-na- ture, ran to see that her effects were not lost in the confusion, but placed in the state-room, where she could have easy access to them. And thus, amid the clanging of bells, the4rush of steam, the Babel of voices, and, covering all and pervading all, the smnoke and horror of the great fire, Marian and Gifford were to say good-bye. It was perhaps as well that such an adieu should be surrounded by so noisy, engrossing, and terrible a scene, for mutual fears for mutual safety had softened him and weakened her to a degree that might otherwise have been dangerous; dangerous to Hugh's honor, dangerous to Marian's self-respect. He saw her safely into the little room which was for some weeks to be her home ; saw that it looked comfortable and seemed well situated, opening into what was termed the ladies' saloon. He saw, too, that Marian was very pale, and remembered long after how much she seemed affected by the excitement and confusion. He went to fetch her a glass of iced-water, and by the time he returned M. Bellot was busy directing his porter how to place Marian's boxes so as to take least room, and be in the most convenient spots. That done, a fiercer shriek than ever arose from the impatient demon who, Weary of being confined, was to force the ship on her way; whereupon a sort of alarm-bell was rung, and then a cry ran through the vessel, up and down'the decks, up and down the saloons, was screamed through all the passages and echoed into all the state-rooms, to the purport that all save passengers must now go on shore. M. Bellot had said farewell in his own kindly and fatherly way, and tried to press upon Marian more money than she had earned or would accept, and underktaeken the transport of all manner of apocryphal kisses by way of final adieux to the children and their mamma, and he now briskly started for the gangway, inviting Hugh -to follow. The latter had been hurriedly saying something to Marian about writing, but she would not promise now-perhaps she would write to him-after a time-but she would not promise. "Don't lose what I placed for you in the packet," she said to him at the last. And "Not while I live," he answered, and then; there came another great, warning screech from the steam whistle. "Farewell, Marian!" "Farewell! a hundred times! And--and don't go backward, Hugh!" "Not while I can see you in memory as I see you now," he said, thickly; and, as he spoke, he pressed on her finger and   2. g      TTHE QUESr FOR FORTUrNE.      239 into her hand a ring and a brooch-of very plain workmanship, but made of the first gold which IIugh himself had dug on Arm- strong's Bar. "Our Father will guide you, Hugh," whispered Marian, the tears flocking into her eyes. With an impulse he could not resist, Gifford clasped her in his arms -and kissed-not her lips or her cheek, but that lovely brow of hers. "'Tis only once," he muttered, "only once--the first-the last. May our Father protect and guard you, now and for ever, darling Marian!" And he rushed from the room. Hie was the last to dash down the plank as the lines were manned to with- draw it, and so to sever the ship from the shore. In another moment the sable monster was dropped into the stream. As Hugh sprang on the wharf he found himself in a group whereof Judge Skewer, Mr. Gallus, and Mr. McCraclken were members, they, together with Mr. Collector Scalpgitter, two edi- tors, two aldermen, and the keeper of a fashionable groggery, having been drinking champagne with the captain in his cabin. His friends would have detained him, but Gifford escaped them almost rudely, for he was resolved to make with all speed to the wharf where he knew he should find the Doctor ; from its ex- tremity he could get a last sight of the steamship--wave a last farewell to Marian. He had greater difficulty than before, for now the air was filled not only with smoke, but with cinders; and part of the ground he crossed had actually been traversed by the fire. The sky above was all of an angry glow, and the sun, which now required no eaglets eye to gaze upon it, looked a mere copper ball. The explosions still continued, for the fury of the fire was at its height. He found that even some of the wharves which had been cut away had been ignited by falling brands; so that it required ceaseless care on the parts of those who had taken refuge on them to save themselves and the goods on the wharves from common destruction. Still these places of refuge were safer than any others, and accordingly some of them were packed close with people. Not so that on which was the Doctor; it had been one of the earliest endangered, and therefore one of the first saved from the flames, and, as access could only thereafter be had to it by boats, very few persons except the original refugees had repaired thither. Hugh managed to find a man who, for a couple of dollars, would take 'the trouble of a dozen strokes of the oar and land him on the wharf; and as he walked swiftly toward the seaward end, on which were some low sheds or store- houses, he saw the same boatman take up the Judge and his com- panions, who were evidently resolved to follow in his wake and find shelter in the same place.   He quickly gained the end of the structure, without pausing to look into the buildings, or to notice more than that they, as well as the platform they stood on, were crammed and overflowing with. boxes, bales, packages, merchandise of every description, and that almost every one he met was- covered with soot and filth from head to foot. - Amid the tumult and destruction of a scene the like of which he had never known or even pictured to him- self before, he had but one thought-of Marian; and if he thought of the surrounding horror, even for a moment, it was in her connection, as that the angel of peace was sailing far away, in whose absence the confusion must needs become worse con- fo unded.  Hughgained the end of the wharf, and there, with his back to the burning city, he once more, and for the last time, saw her. She was in the gallery below the hurricane deck, and, there be- ing comparatively few near the spot, her figure was not lost in a surrounding throng. She stood there in her pale lemon dress, with her net shawl, and her massive black hair, looking just as she did the day before yesterday, when Hugh first saw her after he had come down from the mines. The coral lips were parted with an' anxious look, as her eyes ranged over the desolation be- yond; but as the vessel forged onwards, she presently descried Hugh, and a sweet smile took its place. A sweet smile, but a very sad one- such  as comes over the faces of tender- hearted women who are striving to make others happy when they are most unhappy themselves. The great crimson wheels turn round faster, faster, and fast- er; the puffs of thick white steam cease to spring from the pipes - the red-ribbed, star-dotted ensigns fly up to the peak and the fore; a jet of smoke and a flash, as in mockery of the conflagra- tion left behind, a hollow boom echoing slowly around the bay -and the steamship is flying towards, has entered, passed through the Golden Gate, the vision has vanished, and Hugh is left alone.  How long he sat there he did not know. It seemed to him as if the night must be near before he stirred, but the sulphur- ous pall which covered alike the earth and the sky made it im- possible to tell. He walked towards the storehouses at last, and presently he. came upon Mr. Sloper, who looked like a large chimney sweep, sitting in a sumptuous brocaded arm-chair, and digging sardines out of a box with his bowie-knife. By his side was a broken case of brandy, and what he would have called a , kag' of biscuit or crackers. Judge Skewer and his friends were also here partaking of these dainties with the greatest avidity.   THE QUEST POR FORTUNE.         241 "Come and git sumthin' to eat," invited Sloper, with unusual cordiality. 1' I called ye 'bout fourteen times afore, but ye seemed to be sot on staring at Alcatraz Island." "Smashed on a gal in a yaller cdress," amended Judge Skewer; "that 'ere is the Gineral's complaint. I seed her on the boat, and if I'd a been the Gineral I'd a fit hard afore I'd let her slope."  Any way," pursued Lafayette, "Island or gal, don't let it spile your appetite. These here air minners or shiners, and they're jist soddered up in their own ile. And, if ye like 'em better, we've laid in can chickens, lobsters and oysters to last a month o' Sundays." "And if ye'don't cotton to this'ere rot," added the Judge, quaffing a generous horn of brandy, " there's claret, champagne, ' forty-rod rum, and old rye in Liberty Hall there!" "Liberty Hall?" said Gifford, in the way of inquiry. "Nuthin' shorter, ".replied Lafayette, proudly. It's a hard day's work, but I done it. Come and inspect."  He led the way, and the party entered the largest of the sheds, over the door of which now appeared a rude sign inscribed with the legend: L. SLOPER   CO.,  COMMSSION MERCHANTS. In this building were heaped barrels, cases of spirits, teas, sugars, and groceries of every description. There were also boxes of silks, bandas, and Chinese shawls, as cotild been seen by the labels. There were fine laces and codfish, jewelry and pre- served meats, ladies' gloves and pickled salmon. Near the door stood a child's rocking-horse and a barber's chair. On one side were two huge oil paintings of Venuses or something worse, and opposite to these a cheval-glass. In one corner stood a gentle- man richly dressed, with a remarkably urbane, albeit somewhat glassy expression, whom Hugh remembered to have seen doing duty in the window of a fashionable tailor of Montgomery Street the day before. There were saddles and bridles in profusion, and, in divers mysterious wheels and gi'een and red cloths, 'could be recognized some of the tools of the gambling fraternity. "It took me a heap o' labor," observed Mr. Sloper, survey- ing the field after the manner in which Napoleon might have contemplated that of Austerlitz, " specially the hullsale parcels. But I fetch't 'em at last." "Ah!" exclaimed Hugh, a sudden light coming upon him and "   242  'MARIAN ROOKE; Oi, showing how selfishy he had passed the day while some had thus devoted themselves to saving the property of others "Ah! ;I see; and very handsome conduct of you, I'm sure, to run such risks, and take such pains to rescue the poor people's property. They ought to feel exceedingly grateful to you!" "Otro tiemp; no entiende," suggested the Judge, with a puz- zled air. "Say that agin," fieely translated AL. Sloper; and Hugh re- peated the substance of what he had said, whereat such a burst of volcanic laughter flew from the company that he thought he must have made some odd mistake, especially as the laughter ran into another peal, and then another, until the rickety building shook again. *'Look a thar!" finally commanded Mr. Sloper, sternly. ' What is it, let me put it to ye, that ye see thar?" Gifford looked as ordered at the end of one of the innumera- ble boxes, and read the cabalistic legend again of "L. ,Sloper & Co." He looked at others; and every one bore the same in- scription. ' Now," continued Lafayette, "what d'ye say to that?" "Well, really, I don't know what to say."' "Very well, then, I'll tell ye. Them as had them goods air now, manly on 'em, makin' out their accaounts to send hum to the owners the consignors; in them accaounts not only these here goods air sot down as bturnt up, but, likewise, all they've sold and got the money fur in, the last six months. Which bein' the case, in the interest of the absent owners, L. Sloper becomes an auctioneer and a commission merchant. Jest as quick as the fire gits put aout, the goods goes under the harmet, and Sloper and Company belts the proceeds!" With this elucidation, the details of. which it may be added were subsequently religiously carried out, Mr. Slopelr excused himself for a few moments, and, in company with Judge Skewer, retired to an inner apartment. The Doctor now emerged from another of the buildings, gaining some respite at last in the care of the poor creatures he had been attending, other sur- gical aid .having arrived from the City Hospital. Hugh will- ingly acceded to his companion's proposal to depart from the unfortunate town as soon as possible; he had no longer any motive for wishing to stay. They learned, however, that their departure must necessarily be postponed until the following day, for the Sacramento boat had been so injured by the fire that she was taken off the line for a week at least, and passengers must wait for her sister craft, now on the upward trip.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        243 While they were regretting this casualty, Mr. Sloper and the Judge once more presented themselves, but in far different guise from that in which they had disappeared. They had both been begrimed with smoke, and daubed and battered to the last de- gree by the vicissitudes of the day, but they now appeared as spruce and dainty as the tailor's block in the warehouse. Each was arrayed in a new suit of clothes of what seemed costly ma- terial, with hats and gloves to match, of the choicest quality. Mr. Sloper's red shirt, old trousers, and miner's boots, had, like the ancient checked suit and white hat of the Judge, been offered up to Neptune, and by this time were spinning gaily away with the tide in the w{ake of the vanished steamer. While Hugh was gazing in surprise at these metamorphoses, Lafayette led him apart, and turning his head on one side and riveting his eye with. stern meaning, after his custom when about to be signally impressive, he put five eagles in his companion's hand, and said: ' Them air your'n." "Mine?" echoed Gifford. "Your'n. I don't never go back on no pal, I don't. I don't bet nuthin' on the Britisher, and he kin skin his own skunks, he kin. But them's your brads, them air." "But how came they so?" When you quit the table arter Quagge and his gang got jawin', ye left ten chips behind ye. That's so. I jest messed 'em up with my pile, and when I knocked off-which was when the fire broke aout-I had jest five times as much as when you left the ranch." But I don't want it. I didn't win it. I'll take ten, because I left them, but for the rest, I'd rather " "If you don't belt them brads, pooty darned quick," inter- rupted Mr. Sloper, with a highly ferocious and determined airh', "all I kin say is that you and me'll differ." Thus admonished, Hugh prudently pocketed the gold, and Lafayette walked away quite satisfied. The night was now fast advancing, and after procuring some little refreshment, neither the Doctor nor Gifford were sorry to stretch themselves in a loft over the warehouse of L. Sloper and Co., and to try and re- cover in sleep from the toils and excitements of the day. Hugh was not so successful as his heart-whole senior, for although he fell asleep without difficulty, he awoke shortly after midnight, and all his subsequent attempts to lose his consciousness completely failed. He looked forth from a tiny window which opened on the town; the fire was still burning, although exhausted in  o   ,ft JMARIAN a      r UU04jim  OHt many places, and what had looked like mountains of blazing light were now mere chasms, pits, of inky desolation. The smoke and cinders were everywhere blackening the sky, shrouding the earth, and even hiding the sea. Faint crashes could still be heard in the distance, and now and again fresh showers of red sparks would leap high into the air, showing where a new ex- plosion had occurred or another roof-tree had fallen. Hugh saw lights also through chinks in the partition on the further side of the room, and he peered through to ascertain the'ir cause. There he saw the Judge and Sloper, and Gallus and  McCracken, and Belcher Gay and half-a-dozen others whom he did not know, enthusiastically engaged in a game of faro. They had their cloth, their silver box, their chips, their gold coin, and the Judge was dealing and the others were drinking and betting against his bank as merrily as Nero might have done had faro been known to old Rome. Hugh sighed at the spectacle, and turned for relief toward the sea. He thought-and thought rightly-that perhaps another heart, another eye, might be turned toward his own in the gloomy night, in the contemplation of which he might forget the sordid Bacchanals close by. And Marian was indeed thinking of him at that moment, and praying with all her heart for his happiness and for his good; which finished, she had strained her eyes in striving to catch, far northwards, a parting glimpse of the land be hind-but she saw only a lurid cloud. CHAPITER VK11.  HOGH GIFFORD had resumed his old life at Armstrong's Bar- his old life in things external, but a new and critical one for things within. A straggle was going on, in his soul the end of ,which no one, not himself, could tell. The love, the best love of which this, man was capable, was a thing of slow growth. - When he first saw Marian Rooke he had admired, indeed, but he had not loved her; nor would he have done so had his feelings been  altogether firee. - For although by nature exceedingly susceptible to beautiful things, his early life -had taught him an instinctive caution not only as to showing, but as to yielding even secretly to, such emotions. His mind oscillated between a sort of enthu- siastic worship for every lovely thing he saw, and a suspicious   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       24 5 dread lest such an opening of his heart might tempt the entrance. of something which should bring pain. Suspicion as to sincer- ity, suspicion as to fidelity, of course had their share in produc- mg such a mental warp; but when suspicion was once disarmed, when doubt was once cleared away, the natural, unwarped dis- position of the man had full sway. It may be thought strange that Huigh should have been most free from the caution and sus- picion which were his blemishes, precisely at those times when he was meditating, consciously or unconsciously, treason to Vir- ginia Chester. But a great passion which purges the bosom of many an unworthiness beside, has no compunction for the crime t, by which alone it itself can exist. Hugh was capable-as these doubters, scoffers, satirists, men looked upon with general distrust, fear, or aversion almost invariably are-of the most tenacious, unflinching and devoted adherence to any sentiment, any idea which once gained possession of his soul. The idea or the sen- timent, slow totake root or find entrance, was in that proportion ineradicable or inexpugnable. Long ago he would have died at the stake sooner than recant his faith. He would have .clung to the fortunes of the Stuarts long after their cause was unutterably hopeless, and have died a persistent, unvarying Jacobite. With a large amount of that sagacity which is swift to perceive when anything is inconsistent with common sense, he would yet have clung to a faith or a standard when hope of prevalence was ut- terly opposed to its plainest teachings. Thus it was that when any faint hope of winning Marian through any possible concur'- rence of events was put out of the question by her departure- when the chance which was Mslender at the best of times was re- duced to the veriest of minimuinms by so final a separation-Gif- ford began to, hug his illicit passion to his bosom, to cherish it day by day, to live in it, by it, through it, like as it were a re- ligion, and to put his goddess on a higher pedestal than she had ever occupied before. He resumed his old life at Armstrong's Bar; but the Bar was not the same place, nor was he the same man as before the departure of Marian. ' His visit to San Francisco had not tended to raise his self-es- teem. He had seen a great many vulgar and dishonest men all openlyand unreservedly proclaiming their devotion to one thing-- gold getting. But in what, he asked himself, was he better than any of them? Was not he also striving to get gold? Had he not habitually set this desire or necessity above all others in his own estimation? What was the difference between himself and Sloper, or Judge Skewer, or any of the gamblers, unless it lay in the fact that they seemed to get the money they were striving   246    -    MARAN ROOKE; OR, for and he did not? What advantage did he reap from his classics, his mathematics, his law, his knowledge of belles-let- tres, which had cost such pains to acquire, and of which he had formerly been so proud? Alas, they could not help him to a sin- gle ounce of the yellow earth all were so desperately struggling for; indeed, he remembered that although his acquaintances in the Golden City had appeared willing, good-naturedly, to overlook his obvious educational impediments, it was clear that they con- sidered them such, and were secretly of opinion that they were likely to be serious practical obstacles in the way of his success. Such humiliating reflections were not likely to be modified by the experience of the Bar. A man there was a man, and noth- ing more. The only one of the company who could be said to have been of more value than another for the general weal was Dr. Landale. Hie, indeed, by dint of the theodolite-once des- pised of Dick Railes, now reverenced to that degree that he would have put himself under its tripod as it'were a car of Juggernaut --lhad discovered what had made the company richer for a time, and had received his due meed of honor and consideration. But with this exception, the democracy was complete. Each had his share and no more. Hugh, Luke, Dick Railes, even poor Ike, stood upon the same platform; and when Hugh had spoken of Luke's ambition, in significant allusion to his supposed admiration for Marian, he had forgotten that, so far as worldly circumstances went; he himself could claim no precedence. If Luke were unworthy, on such a score, of Marian's consideration, he, Hugh, was no less so. Having thought thus far, he fell back upon his old remedy-the only panacea after all for his par- ticular griefs and woes-the only ally whose aid would enable him to mount into his fitting social position-the sole stepping- stone whereby he could ascend so as to be seen and respected of the world-Gold.  Gold! He would have it, he must have it. What had he come too California for? To crawl about with these wretched dig- gers, earning barely enough to keep soul and body together, like laborers on a railway? To live without society, without litera- ture, without appreciation or mingling with those of kindred sympathies, of similar culture-for now that Marian was gone, this deficiency was felt in all its force-was. this to be the end, the reward of his aspirations and his pilgrimage? No; it should not, must not be. He must have gold, ay, and plenty of it, as the indispensable prerequisite to any of his schemes, his plans of use- fulness or honor for future life. But how to set about it! Were not all there equally anxious to grow rich with himself?   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        247 Or, if their deiresr Were not quite so impatient and feverish as his  own, would they not at least work as hard and as willingly as he to carry them out? What royal road could he devise to get more swiftly to the wished-for goal? What device could he employ, like Aladdin's lamp or Fortunatus' purse, to outstrip competition, to supersede that duller, yet as certaip talisman, hard, patient, determined labor? ' I would grow rich," he moaned, "before youth has passed away ; before the capacity for enjoyment has faded; before the time when love can. no longer be inspired or friendship made; before travel will have ceased to amuse or novelty to excite ; be- fore the passions and sympathies are deadened or stiffened, and life has become a mere routine of monotonous repetition ; before the time has gone by when I shall care to show the miserable, soulless grubs I was born and bred Among, how I loathe their lives, their practices, their sordid examples; before the time when the spirit shall have flown to denounce and hold up to the world's contempt their Pharisaical lives, their knavish trickeries, their dastardly hatred of al that is superior to their own con- temptible standards. But how to set about it " How, indeed! For the bright promise of the younger days of the canon had been but imperfectly fulfilled as time wore on. Mr. Panghurn had been guided by a diabolical instinct when, rat-like, he had quitted the falling house, adding to the self-pre- serving, a provident, forethought which had cost his companions all their accumulationS. The yield now was small; not so little as it had been just before the abandonment of the surface wash- ings on the river, but not comparable to what it had been at their best of seasons. In a word, it was such as would have obliged the party to labor for a term of years before they could reason- ably expect to save even modest competencies. To be sure,'there was always the chance of another windfall like the discovery of the canion; but, on the other hand, there was an equal chance, to say the least, of the diggings becoming exhausted altogether. This was not a very bright look-out for Hugh's soaring calcu- lations; and he became, as time wore on, his heart oppressed with unsatisfied longings, more and more moody, and more and more desponding. It was strange he never thought at this time that through poverty, and not through wealth, any chance of winning Marian was most likely to lie. That is to say, that while in the event of his becoming rich he could not in honor avoid his engagement to Virginia, if he remained poor, her father was all but certain to do his utmost to emancipate ]iim from it. Instead of thinking of such a contingency, Hugh would often   248         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, muse on the ease with which be might follow Marian, go where she might, even to the uttermost ends of the earth, if. this great unbuilt castle in Spain of his, this unearned fortune, could by fairy, or any other means, once be realized. When Marian had made up the package of gifts for him to bring to tlp Bar, she had not had that conversation with Hugh which had towards its conclusion, as it were by a lightning flash, revealed to her what she had not hitherto suspected as to his feel- ings. Perhaps if she had, she would have rearranged its con- tents, Her gift to him was, to say the least, in view of the cir- cumstances, an indiscreet one. But the girl, with all her self-re- spect, was apt, as we have se en, to be somewhat unconventional. The little box which contained this gift was carefully sealed, and addressed to ",Hugh Gifford, Esq. ;" and that gentleman having distributed, like another Santa Claus, the remaining contents of his satchel, had kept his box without openingit for two days after the Doctor and he had returned to the Bar. He did not open it until the Sunday which next ensued, and which enabled him to stray away alone to one of the haunts Marian and he had often frequented; he went up to the placid lake among the hills, there, in that melancholy, yet grateful retirement, to examine and gloat over his treasure. It was Marian's picture. A very small miniature taken a year or two back, and although, as was natural, not looking quite so developed as the original, yet a striking likeness. It was in a fiame evidently very much older than itself, a frame of very old- fashioned make, set around with alternating diamonds and pearls, and having a cover like a locket, which fastened with a spring. The likeness was remarkable. There were the lips just parted, as Marian's often were, the nose slightly aquiline and so deli- cately chiselled, the low dreamy brow, the wealth of glossy raven hair, and-more than all-there were the large, melting, un- speakably lustrous eyes,-eyes with their outlineand meaning so distinct, so absolutely real, notwithstanding the heavy shade which the longest of lashes necessarily cast over them. Unequiv- ocally, it was Marian's picture. So that Hugh was the only one at the Bar who still saw Marian every day ; but he was not the only one who thought of her. She had left a void in the life of all, although it was a greater void with some than with others. Thus, the old people mourned over her loss quite as if it were that of a child, and Kitty could not have cried more for that of a sister; but the one to whom the bereavement came hardest was poor Luke. He it was who sat wistfully in the long evenings looking at Marian's vacant   - THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.    '  249 chair; he it was who carved a curious rustic bench and placed it on the brink of the little lake among the Ihills where she used to love to sit; he who built bowers at either end of the favorite walk by the river, and trained wild roses and jessamine to grow over them. It might have seemed too marked had these things been done when Marian was living and moving among them; but nobody noticed now in any such sense what were, in effect, only so many little monuments to her memory. Gifford saw these things, and Maw them without being jealous. It appeared to him right enough that since Marian was lost to them-as well as to him-and for ever, that sorrow should be ex- hibited in as unreserved a form as any who felt it might choose to show. One day-it was Sunday-he wandered up to the old place and found Luke sitting on the bench he had fashioned, and, as Luke quietly made room for him, he sat down by his side. "It doesn't seem like the same spot now," he said, after a pause, and as if answering the thoughts of his companion. "No more like it," answered Luke, seriously, "than the little duck-pond over behind grandfather's barn at Old Saybrook- that was where I was born, Mr. Gifford, and mem'ry's sharp 'bout things we see when we was little-not so dull, neither," he added, with a sigh, "'bout some things when we git older.'" "Luke," said Hugh, after another pause, and with aswift im- pulse, "now she's gone-gone, and we are, none of us, I sup- pose, ever to see her again-it doesn't so much matter to speak plainly about it. You-you were very fond of Miss Rooke-of Marian, weren't you?" "Yes," replied Luke, simply.      -     . "All here were, to be sure," continued Hugh, accepting the reply in a general sense; " but you felt something more toward her than the rest, did you not?" "I don't know what the rest felt," said Luke, "but I loved her with all my heart and with all my soul." And no one who looked in his honest blue eyes could have doubted it. "And would you," Hugh went on with a strange sort of curiosity, "that is, supposing no obstacles to have existed- would you have married her, Luke?"' "No," was the decided reply. , "No? You love her so deeply and would not, if you could, marry herTp" "]No."               i "    .   250         MARSA ROOKE; OR, ' Why?" "Because," and the worthy fellow's voice trembled as he spoke, "because she did not love me." "Still, people get to love others in time, when they do not at first, perhaps. Some natures require, as it were, to grow into a love and dependency on others. By perseverance-constancy 'you might perhaps have   " "Ah, Mr. Gifford! why should I seek to fidget and worry a nater like hers jest for a selfish purpose? What difference does it make, and what account am I, compared to her? I didn't love for my sake, Mr. Gifford, but for hers." ' That is noble." "Only just and right, I call it. I did tell Mary Anne I loved her, and I pleaded rather .hard-too hard, it seemed to me after- wards. But it was a sharp trial at the time, and allers after I forgot my own pain in bein' sorry for her." "Sorry for her?" "Because she had to suffer in the same way, and bein' a higher and purer nater than mine, I knew she must suffer more." "But how mean you in the same way?" "I mean that Mary Anne, too, loved as I did; and as I did, hopelessly." "INo'!"' half shouted Hugh, "she is heart-free, heart- whole!" "Free she may be, but heart-whole, no; no more than I be, M'. Gifford." ,  "You must be in error, Luke," said Augh, more calmly. "Miss Rooke had no affair of that sort-only had one in her life, and that irrevocably broken off. You must be in error." A strange light came into Luke's eyes. Such a strange ex- pression-like what is sometimes seen in the face of one who has been weeping, but over whose mind some humorous con- ceit has floated unbidden, and sheds its reflection through the face. "No," he said, firmly, 'I'm not in error'. I'm ignorant enough, Lord knows, Mr. Gifford, and I might naterally make mistakes 'bout a great many things, but not 'bout that. No, Mary Anne Rooke loves, as I said, and loves hopelessly; and that's what made me feel so sorry foir her, till, as I said, the pity kind of overpowered and smothered the love." "But even if it were true-which I must still doubt-would you then regret this hopeless love? Surely, with your feelings, you would not wish her to marry another?"   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        251 C7 "That's jest where you're wrong, Mr. Gifford. Heaven is my witness how glad I'd be if it were an honorable love and made her happy. But it isn't, can't be, is quite out of the question; so of course I don't wish it." "You speak in enigmas, Luke," said Hugh, a little impa- tiently; "I wish you could think it right to speak plainly." Luke looked at the other long and earnestly. "It's strange,"  he murmured, half to himself, "very strange-and yet it's jest like her." Then aloud, "You've no idea, M3. Gifford, what I mean?" "None whatever-except that you must have deceived your- self in some odd way." Luke shook his head again; and there remained in his face the only self-confident expression which perhaps had ever shown itself there. "As you said, Mr. Gifford," he replied, slowly, " now that she's gone-gone, and we, none of us, are ever to see her again --p'raps it don't make so much difference, and then it's bein' so impossible and all; and you-you've no idea?" "None whatever-not the least-I repeat." "Then, Mary Anne was very much in love- and hopelessly, mind-with some one here on the Bar; had been before she or that some one came on the Bar; will be, long after she and that some one are gone from the Bar." "And that some one?" "And that some one is you, yourself, Mr. Gifford!" "Good heavens!" "I knew ye didn't think it, and I was glad, for both your sakes, ye didn't. But it was you, just the same, for all that." The color gave a' deeper bronze to Gifford's cheek, and his breath came and went swiftly as he muttered: "You are wrong-wrong! Your own love has deceived, blinded you." "No-never' Never, except for three. minutes, once when I talked with her in the path there by the river. Never before, never since." "And how do you know this?" "And how do I know!" and Luke almost laughed aloud- "how do I know that the sun shines or the moon, or that the water tumbles over the caterack, or that she is beautiful, or that I am not good enough to love her? Because I KNOw it.- Because, if there were ten thousand people on the Bar, and each. swore it wasn't so, I'd still know that it was." "Surely, she-="               i   252        -MARIAN ROOKE OR, "Never spoke of or hinted such a thing? No. I spoke to her, thinking', which I was hasty in perhaps, that others might see and talk of your bein' a good deal together; but, tho' she thank- ed me, she didn't admit I was right in my guess." You spoke to her?" Yes; it was kindly meant, if it does look selfish. It was be- cause I knew that for you two ever to be anything to each other was impossible and so  " "Impossible,! And why?" "Why? Mr. Gifford, wasn't you, and ain't you engaged to another woman? And was it right for Mary Anne's honor any more than it was for your'n, that sech things should be said, or even thought? I didn't think so, and I spoke." "Right-quite right. I forgot, Luke; you were quite right, I don't doubt. People often forget, or never think," he went on musingly, "what construction others may put upon the'ir conduct." "That was jest it." And as Miss Rooke and I had many subjects of common in- terest to both, we, perhaps, were not considerate enough about people making allowances. But, about this other surmise of yours, Luke-about Miss Rooke's feelings towards myself-you have misinterpreted this common interest and believed some- thing deeper, and-- " "Let us not argue that, Mr. Gifford, please. That's a thing I know; so I can't weigh chances or doubts touchin' it. Mary Anne loves you-loves you as-as-I loved her."  The poor fellow stopped: and Hugh respected his silence. In- deed he had so much cause to wish for commune with himself as to be glad of the time for reflection. Here was a revelation, coming from this simple, single-minded source too, whose truth he thoughthimself a very mole not to have before suspected,- a revelation, which seemed to be at one moment the most blissful ever heard fromr mortal lips, at the next to be almost. utterly in- different. That he loved Marian as he never yet had loved woman, Hugh was now too well aware; but was his love made a whit more prosperous by a knowledge that it had been return- ed? If Marian were able to act as she had acted, to tear herself away firom a presence which was so dear to her, simply from a conviction of duty, was she likely to be any less resolute merely because Hugh knew more of the state of her heart than was proper for her to divulge? Manifestly not. So far as his own feelings were concerned, Hugh found it difficult, in reviewing his conduct, to escape the persuasion that Marian must be aware   THE QUEST' FOR FORTUNE.        253 of them. If so, it was with a double knowledge that she had acted as she had. It was with a determination that the honor of both should receive no blemish, that. she had taken and acted upon her resolution. She had done to Virginia Chester as she would have been done by, and if Hugh were by her side at this moment, armed with all the passionate eloquence that his new discovery would endow him withal, he believed her strong enough to persevere in the right path, and to resist him still. There was no particular gain, then, in this revelation; it only, increased the measure of Hugh's regret and despondency. He wandered over the dear old haunts again and again, and all he could arrive at was the thought ever recurring, sometimes in one shape, sometimes another, but, substantially, the same thought still, that if he were only rich, somehow all difficulties could be smoothed, and every one made happy without any one being wronged. In his wanderings he was almost always attended by his old companions, Ichabod and Lion. Hugh liked their company chiefly, perhaps, because they seldom spoke, but there was a strong tie between them for a better reason. It is said that peo- ple--that is to say, people of mean, low natures-never forgive those who have done them  favors. I am very sure that this is not the case with dogs; those, at least, of the nobler breeds may be better described as never forgetting rather than never forgiv- ing their benefactors. Such, at any rate, was the'case with Lion: he recognized Ike as his playfellow and his master, to the extent that they were never separated; but he regarded Hugh, so far as a dog could cherish such a sentiment, with a species of grate- ful reverence, of steadfast, unmovable attachment, which, by a natural sympathy, he also shared with Ike himself. The dark- ened mind of the imbecile, darkened in spite of its occasional flashes of keen perception or shrewd cunning, was yet capable of the most intense feeling of gratitude. The strongest desire that he had ever felt was that of doing Gifford some signal service in return for the inestimable one of saving his favorite's life, and this desire was hardly ever absent from his thoughts' Many a strange colloquy had he had with Lion on this important subject whin no one else was by; many atime had he impressed upon his canine understanding the necessity which existed for some re- compense being devised in requital for the great boon which had been conferred upon him.   At such times the creature would listen with a grave and attentive ah'ir, and appear altogether to appreciate and concur in the arguments presented; and, whether he understood them or not, I  am quite sure that he would have   a 254         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, shrnunk from no sacrifice or personal risk which, upon occasion their acceptance might entail. While all the others on the Bar saw Hugh's depression, and accounted for it in Various ways, Ike did the same with his own lights, and after his own fashion. He knew that Marian and Gif- ford had been a great deal together,.for he had often enough been of the party; but he did not connect her departure with the existing gloom for two reasons: one was that, although he would have seen something to laugh at and have a joke about in the flirtations of Kitty Armstrong and Dick Railes, such an idea never for an instant occurred to him in connection with Marian and Hugh. He regarded the former indeed as a superior, almost as an angelic being, and had an inrstinctive perception of the impropriety of coupling her name with the jests and gibes about love which seemed natural enough with those of creatures of coarser clay. These are of the perceptions which, in our fel- low beings whom we call weak-minded, are often the strongest and most clearly defined. But Ike believed that he knew the real secret at the bottom of Hurgh's disquietude; and he addressed himself one day to obtain a satisfactory acknowledgment of the accuracy of his opinion. They had-been, as usual, hard at work in the canon, and the two had withdrawn, as was often their wont, to eat their frugal mid- day meal under a waterproof tent hard by. The day had been very wet, the rain pouring almost constantly in sullen, leaden showers, and scarcely a gleam of sunshine or a patch of blue sky, which now and again would cheer their weary toil in the long days of the rainy season, had on this morning been seen. There were two or thred tents for shelter when the torrents were too heavy and unceasing for work; but the miners had long boots coming to the thigh, and oilskin coats, and generally speaking they toiled steadily on, rain or shine.  "'Pears to me," said Ike, addressing Lion, who laywith his great cmurly black hide streaming with moisture outside the tent, -" 'pears to me everybody's gittin' down-hearted and lonesome 'cept you and me. P'raps," he continued, cutting off a piece-of dried beef and presenting to the animal, who took it with great gentleness and deliberation, "p'raps it's bekase you and me air the only ones who have everythink we want. We ain't down- hearted, for we don't hanker for what we can't git. We ain't lonesum, for we allers have enough company." "Yes," said Hugh, half consciously acquiescing, "you two are happy enough, no doubt. The happiest on the Bar are those whom the rest are always pitying."   is  t      THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       255 "I don't want no pity," said Ike, scornfully ; "pity 'em back and see how they like it. Allers a grlmblin' and cussin' come low water or high. Heavy yield, no thanks; little- yield, all growl. Ike's a poor shoat, that's so. He's' a drned fool Dick says. P'raps that's s6. But he's the only one o' the crowd who don't rile over what he hain't got, and yet could git what all the rest hanker artel:" ' "You mustn't mind Dick," said Hugh, gently; "he says mnuch he don't mean, you know, Ike. He's a good fellow at bottom." "Ay, may be there's wuss than Dick; and then Kitty likes him, so he wouldn't be drefful bad." "No; surely that's a mark in his favor. But you see, Ike, it's natural when people work hard that they should look for some re, ward." ' They don't git more for grumblin' over it." "No, perhaps not. But it's some relief, you know, to com- plain.' "4Injuns don't think so; and they know a heap better'n most of us. Better'n most anyone, 'ceptin' Lion. Injuns know a sight o' things they don't tell on, that's more," added Ike, reflec- tively. "You've seen many of 'em-I  mean since we've been here?" "Only two or three. There's lots, they say, towards the rising  sun. And none  of our folks dares to go to the north-east for fear o' their precious scalps. They don't fight open, not even like them 'ere devils o' Pawnees; but lie in the "Chaparral and pick folks off when they go by. They're like Ike for -one thing-.", "And what's that, pray? '"Not carin' a darn for the gold." "Oh, they don't value it, eh?" "Not yet: Uncle Seth says they will, plaguey quick, when they know how much fire-water, and blankets, and powder and shot, it'll fetch. But  they'll stop bein' Injuns soon when they get to know that much." a Poor people, they don't last Iong after contact with the white mnan.' "But they know what Ike knows-they know   what all peo- ple know-where to find things they don't want. Ike don't care for gold; and he kin tell where's there's acres and moun- tains of it. That's alters the way; nobody kin find it as wants it, and everyone kin hev it who don't." The boast had been repeated too often for Hugh to regard it   256        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, as any more than one of Ike's harmless and frequent fantasies, and he well knew that if. questioned as to why he did not use his exceptional knowledge, the old reply, that it would be " bad" for the others to share in its benefit, would be his only one ; so Hugh remained silent. "Now you, Mr. Gifford," said Ike, turning sharply upon him, and narrowly scanning his face-" you can't find any gold; more'n the poor scratching you git here now, I mean?" "No, Ike, I suppose I can't." "Then you kear for it, that's all." "Well," confessed Hugh, with a sigh, "I fear I do, Ike." "Do ye now really, very much?" put Ike, with curiosity. "Yes-really-very much." "Ever so much?" persisted Ike, coming close, and peering into the other's face, as if trying to elicit some mysterious occult secret. "Yes, ever so much." "I wish ye'd tell me why." "Why.? Why?" repeated Hugh, forgetting, in the thoughts which the inquiry suggested, the mental deficiency of the ques- tioner. "How can you ask why? Because it would make me a different man! Because it would change into refined and ele- vated surroundings the coarse and sordid ones which must now, perforce, content me! Because it would enable me to achieve something, and show the world of what stuff I am made! Be- cause it would enable me to avenge myself on the narrow- minded wretches who have scorned and trampled on me because I was poor! Because it would enable me to apply the touchstone, that I might thus distinguish between false love and true! And because, if the test showed what I think it would, it would enable me-oh, happiness! to-to  "     / "To what?" urged Ike, eagerly. "To do and bq all that I most wish for on earthy, said Hugh, recollecting himself in time to employ a generality instead of the particular declaration which had hovered on his lips. "It's curus," mused Ike, " that what some folks want so much, other folks don't kear shucks for." "Yes," answered Hugh, abstractedly, and thinking how he had been led unawares into a mere wild and purposeless decla- ration of his wishes.    t  "P'raps, arter all, we may strike a lead agin, as rich as the ' first go off wos on the canon." "Perhaps." "There's nuthin' for't but to keep on tryin'."      .   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE,       257 '"Nothing."  "Then agin," remarked Ike, digressing into a new train of reflection, "you know a heap more'n most any on 'em on the Bar. I don't know nuthin' and don't make nuthin', being short o' school learnin', let alone other things; but folks that know so much ought to git on faster'n them that don't know anythink." Hugh colored. "Why, you see, Ike," he replied, again ex- plaining, "I lave had some education, it's true but I'vre never had anything of a start in life to make that education of any avail. I was bred to a profession, but a man should be able to live four or five years without its aid, who is to depend on its plractice for the future. I had no such help. My parents could give me education, but they could give me nothing more. So that in some sense I was rather the worse than the better foi it, seeing it pointed out pleasures, opened the way to habits, gen erated hopes which I had no means of carrying out or fual- filling." "Then,' said Ike, calmly, " you're wuss off with the eddica- tio than ye would have bin without it. So I allers thought." "Perhaps not altogether so. But it doesn't make a man hap- pier who is absolutely hopeless of rising in life." "You want to rise in life," repeated Ike, in an argumentative Sort of tone, but yit you can't earn no more with your hands than Dick Railes!" "No" said Hugh, sadly, "perhaps not so much." "And you can't rise in life without gold?" "No," said Hugh, decisively; " certainly not." The sun here flickerpd forth a little through the drenching showers, and the colloquists joined their fellow'laborers at their tedious labor in the now niggardly canon. Hugh thought he had been holding what appeared to be a curiously-connected conversation, seeing that poor Ike had been his companion; but, beyond a   passing wonder, the matter soon slipped from his memory. It was far otherwise with Ike himself. He had in his own way obtained the particular knowledge he had set him- self to find out; and the discovery, so far as its main essential was concerned, had  sunk deeply into hisheart. ! '   258        MARIAN ROOKE: OR, CHAPTER IX. T"THERE ain't mu h show," said Uncle Seth, as ho sat smoking his pipe in the chimney-corner, one raw January evening, " for the old homestead at Saybrook this year. We kin lay by some- think in bank, and hev a wood instead of a cotting roof, may be; but gold is too scass for to think of gittin' rich by railroad this 'ere 'season."- "All along o' that 'ere pesky Panghurn," snapped Mrs. Arm- strong, her eyes quivering over her, spectacles, " which was the palaveringest mortal I ever see. I ask ye now,. who could tell he didn't care anything about chiny, or never took an interest in patchwork, by what he said--no, not from fust to last?" "' He is a fust-rate business man," chuckled Dick Railes, who had always felt a lurking dread that Panghurn's merits as a con- noisseur in these articles of vertu might seduce the good dame into an attempt to supersede his own pretensions with pretty Kitty-" a fust-rate business man is Panghurn; and knows drefful well which way to make folks look when he's arter the sugar.  ' ( Anyhow," growled the Doctor, " he just kept us from making improvements which might have made us all rich by this time. However, it's worth some sacrifice to have had one really good chance to study that sort of animal." "I reckon studyin' of 'em don't make 'em hook less," ob- served Mrs. Armstrong, sagely ; " and, opinion bein' asked, I'd elect their bein' studied where folks had stronger bolts, or more to lose." "After- all, ma," chirruped Kitty, "we're much better off than some poor people; and surely it might have been much worse."  "Allowin'," affirmed her mothers " f'r instance, that we'd set- tled-among the Mandans, where the red varmints has that taste for chiny and patchwork that they wear all they kin git on their miserable painted bodies. It might a. ben wuss to be skinned by a Mandan instead of a Panghurn ; but .for ch'ice, give me nuther." "Up, away no'th east'ards," said Uncle Seth, puffing away patiently, " there's bin awful work among the red-slins. When   S         THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         259 I there warn't many whites, they was peaceable enough; but now : the miners air increasin' and multiplyin', and kind o' pushin' into ! their huntin'-grounds, they're gittin' awful savage There was g seven miners killed on the Coltsfoot range away to the no'th o' v' I Gunpowder Crik a week ago Sunday." I  "That's whar Panghurn  ought to a gone," said Mr. Railes. , If you could on'y a made a pint thereaway, Doctor, with the  th'odolite, and persuaded the critter thar was rich diggins thar,  he'd a come to a righteous end by this." "I wouldn't wish no white man sech a fate, Dick," said Uncle  Seth, charitably ; "we've ben too near it ourselves to wish e'er f a feller bein' to share in't. As for the dust, he won't be no - better nor we no wuss for it, in the long run." "When I kin dig taters out of a hill," remarked Mrs. Arm- I strong, furthest be it from me to grudge fryin' 'em with the pork. a But the hard lines was rather tucked on to us jest about then. ' You kin dig gold, and you can dig taters, but you can't dig up i gals like our Mary- Anne not every day." This was said with a sorrowing glance towards Luke ; for the mother's instinct taking I: alarm at his long-continued, patient sorrow, had not been de- ceived at last in divining the cause. \  "Ay," said Seth gravely; "both our treasures -were took' from us to onct; and it did seem rather stiff comin' together like. I take it, if we'd had a ch'ice, few on us would a differed as to which to lose. But these things is ordered for us, and we don't order 'em for ourselves." '  "I wish an order'd come for an ounce to the pan," said Dick R ailes, sotto voce, ' like as was in the old tiies.  Seems to me if : things keeps on, we'll hev to go to hoein' corn agin for a livin', with a little huntin' and fishin' thrown in." "There's gold enough in the country," continued Seth, " only p S'raps we ain't so fortunate as some folks who change their loca- tion oftener. For my part I allers allowed I'd rather stick to one spot, bein' naterally sot agen movin', and some struck in years. We've staid here very stiddy, that's a fact ; and when we fust come, we could pick and choose.  Its harder doin' that now; for to the suth'ard and west'ard. there's the settlers comin' in thicker and thicker every day; and to the north'ard and east'ard there's the'redskins who air on the war-path, and no mistake. So now I don't see nuthin' better than to squat where we air, and worry of it out." "There's as much gold here as anywhere," said the Doctor, lighlting his pipe with a red-wood shaving; but it's harder to get at, and will take machinery such as we haven't got. Quick-   260        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, silver will separate gold from earth, but it won't extract it from quartz. That must be pulverized before it will relax its hold.' We've been skimming the surface, that's all; and we shall keep on skimming till we either find a new placer, or get a quartz mill."       etr '4 Couldn't we make one?" asked Dick. it Make one!" Make one as we did the flume," explained the backwoods. man, who had a secret conviction that strong arms and broad axes were equal to the manufacture of almost any, however com- plicated, machinery. Do you know what such a thing is . Iow would you set about it?" "Why," said Dick, somewhat abashed, " couldn't ye kind o' work in the th'odolite?" This was the resource for any mysterious or recondite needs, when the strong arms and broad axes required auxiliary aid. It was remarkable that, just as Dick had at first regarded the instru- ment as a mere bauble, a child's plaything, he now firmly be- lieved it capable of conquering the most unheard-of difficulties. It now inspired him with awe, just as before it filled him with contempt. It had been a useless toy, and was now the thlunder- boit of Jove.- "Why, no," laughed the Doctor, ' I fear it would scarcely serve us there. 'Twillmeasure heights and distances, and survey land, and lay off angles, and tell us-even differences of levels, but it won't answer the purpose of a machine-shop, nor build us a steam-engine."  , ' I've bin thnkin, " said Seth, 4that we might kind o' prbs- pect more. None o' these qu estions of title are likely to be riz, leastways for some years to come, and, we might give a little time when the rains hold up to prospectin' a piece jest as well as spend it all in poor work. 'Anyway, it'll only cost the time to try. There had been a great deal of desultory prospecting before, and it had generally proved very unproductive. But Uncle Seth had an idea that, by proposing sutch experiments now and then he forestalled discontent, and kept the party in harmony together It had been arranged between Dick and Kitty, and, after sore demur and talking of it over, with the ol -folks, that they wer to be married in the coming spring, provided a certain sun 'should then have been accumulated as going to Dickl's share, thu making it reasonably prudentfor him to assume new responsibili ties. Accordingto Dick'sversion, they were to be married ateal. summer, ,'-whether or no" ; but although inwardly resolved o   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         261 not being debarred from happiness by pecuniary considerations, Dick was still extremely anxious to get on, and he chafed under the slow progress and niggardly yield which so long attended their efforts at the' Bar. But the rainy season had kept more than one impatient spirit in check there. Luke Armstrong pined for a more active and adventurous life, and we have seen some- thing of Gifford's  discontents and aspirations. As for the Doctor, in addition to his share of the mining interests, and at- tending to such few trifling ailments as any of the company had ; experienced, he was absorbed in making geological and botanical collections to that degree that he had no time either to be un- happy or discontented. There were a great many vicissitudes of fortune that season. Stories were blown to the ear on every breeze of enormous for- tunes swiftly amassed, of incredible lumps of gold' discovered, of mountains all compact with the glittering metal, of ravines more precious than the fabled valley of diamonds. The truth was, that when any brilliant discovery was made, it was profusely ad- vertised and trumpeted, so that scarcely any one in California re- mained ignorant of it; but of the thousands who made but a bare subsistence, struggling on against the evils of enormous prices for every necessary, often almost without shelter, clothing, or even food, report made no mention. So that the young men at Arm- strong's Bar very naturally contrasted their own measure not with the latter, but with the former, standards of success; a pro- ceeding common to all men in all generations, and it may be supposed, always to remain so. But in spite of this, there were a great number of real, substantial fortunes amassed, and no lack of authentic details to cause the unlucky ones to envy and ad- mire. As for Hugh, not a week passed but he was revolving some scheme for changing his situation. But there were not a few obstacles to such a step. First, there was Marian's desire that he should remain with the Armstrongs; it was very sweet and grateful to Hugh to think he was obeying that desire. Then he could not bear, somehow, melancholy as were their associa- tions, to tear himself from the places she used to love, the spots which she had hallowed by her presence. Added to this was the circumstance, that it was a matter of no little inconvenience at that date to wander forth in the rainy season with no fixed abode or habitation. I remember sleeping on top of a pile of trunks once, exposed through the livelong night to a drenching rain, at a place called the ' Summit," on the Isthmus of Panama. The "Summit," besides its negative charms of affording' no   262        MARIAN ROOKEE; OR, shelter-the few wretched adobe huts it contained having been absolutely packed with travellers before my arrival-struck me as the most hideously desolate hole I had ever yet seen. Now, I dare say to those who, being, if not comfortably, at least dryly, housed, looked forth and saw me on my eyrie, the place ap- peared a very good one to stop in, notwithstanding they were sleeping so close to one another on the floor that there was no room for any living thing, except the fleas, to come between them; and Hugh had seen, even in his short travels, so many poor fellows without a roof over their heads, that even the o "cotting" one of his p;resent quarters was not to be despised. At all events, the seasonl which we call spring had almost come, and he still lingered at the Bar. When the rains began to cease, a marked change came over the poor witling, Ike. It has been said before, that his mental weakness had not the effect to impair his-usefulness in a general way, or to disqualify him for steadfast labor. On the contrary. he was always at work with the earliest, and among the last to pause. But latterly he seemed to take a different view of his obligations. By degrees he began to avoid exertion, to go late to the canfon, to abandon. the particular spot where he was post- ed, and go restlessly to others. After a time he stayed away from work altogether, hanging about the house, however, and chopping wood and bringing water, as had been his wont long ago at the farm on the banks of the Ohio. When this had gone on for a while, alternating with returns to his more regullar hab- its, Seth took occasion, with great gentleness, to remonstrate with him, whereat Ike plumply refused for some days to do any labor at all. Being unmolested and unnoticed for a space, he again resumed his toil with the others. But the interruptions continued, and even became more frequent. Soon after, he add- ed a new vagary to his former ones, .which at first caused some * alarm ; he absented himself for a whole day, and did not return until far into the night, being let in with his four-legged comn- panion, at twelve o'clock, greatly to the relief of MAIs. Arm- strong, who had desired the whole party to .turn out and scolur the country for him. An impression now arose in the little cir- cle that poor Ike was fast losing what slender wits he ever had, and that he was in danger of becoming quite useless and incapa- bie. On this, Seth consulted the Doctor; but the latter advised that Ike should be left entirely to his own devices. In that case the increased aberration might be but temporary; but if too much notice were taken, or any coercion attempted, it might not s            .    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         263 only make him worse, but destroy all chance of his ultimate re- covery. One day he seemed to have capped the climax of his eccentri- cities, for he departed before daybreak, taking with him not only his inseparable companion, but also Dick Railes' mustang mare, -the apple of his eye, from her shed in the corral. At first Dick stormed and swore, for this was his one possession which he could not bear to have in any manner interfered with; but he forgot his anger before the next morning, when neither man, horse, nor dog had been seen or heard of. -Such a thing, had never occurred before, and it threw the Bar into a great commo- tion. They hunted in all directions, as farias Yankee Jim's on one side, and the Coyote Run on the other; they even pene- trated a dozen miles toward the dreaded Indian country--a di- rection they had ever been most sedulous in' avoiding. A sec- ond night wore away in anxious expectancy, but still the truant came not. Towards morning Seth had determined to raise the country in every quarter, and, if possible, to have poor Ike found; for there now began to be a general fear that he had met disaster, and that his body, :mangled by Indians or grizzlies, was all they could hope to find, if; indeed, it were not already dis- posed of by the latter .  But on the second morning, as the sun was just peeping over the hills, poor Ike returned, having been absent eight-and-forty hours; and to Dick's great satisfaction he was accompanied not only by Lion, but by the 'mare. The trio were in a woeful plight, indeed. They were draggled with dirt, and wet from head to foot. Ike was rather a singular figure at the best of times, but now he was a sight to behold. If he had been plas- tered with glue, and then rolled in a dust heap, he could scarcely have been more matted with adhering filth ; and Lion had evi- dently experienced precisely the same vicissitudes with his master. As to the mare, she was not only exceedingly dirty, and quite knocked-up, but very footsore, notwithstanding Ike had led her for many miles during the latter part of his erratic journey, himself scarcely able to drag one foot after another. As usual Ike declined to give any account of his wanderiugs, and his friends wisely avoided pestering him with questions. He ate and drank heartily, and then fell into a sound sleep which lasted into the evening. Then he awoke, and soon after had a violent chill, followed by sharp febrile symptoms. At this the Doctor gave him quinine, and found it necessary to continue his treatment for some days. In the mean time the mare was put     i 1i   . ,     ,     , fl;   264         MARIAN ROOKE  OR, out of his reach, and Lion, who seemed heartily glad to be at home again, lay snoring under his cot. Ike had started for his excursion on a Tuesday; he returned on the following Thursday, but it was not until Sunday that he seemed to have entirely recovered from its effects. It was one of those supremely lovely mornings that are so bright, so gladdening, to the heart, because they come after a long, long series of days when the sun is scarcely ever seen, and when the rain falls almost ceaselessly, as if the skies were never again to clear. A fine haze was in the ail, which made the land- scapes look like mezzotint, and the sky was of that tender Cali- fornian blue, than which that of Italy may be more beautiful, but which none who have seen the former will allow. The long- continued moisture had swelled vegetation into its most luxu- riant growth, and a sparkle seemed to dance on every spray and tree-top as if diamonds had been sprinkled there. It was a day to be remembered for its own loveliness, but it was tenfold more precious to Gifford, in that it reminded him so strongly of some others like it when his walk up to the mountain farm had not been so lonely as it this morning was.' He sat there on Luke's memorial bench, and bathed in the soft, delicious air, his thoughts wandering back many a day into the. past, far into the time which now appeared so distant, when the company had started from St. Louis; to the time before they had faced the dangers of the plains, and had turned into a veritable citadel the huge old vehicle they christened Castle Armstrong. And Hugh could not but remember how nervously anxious he had been for those days to pass that he might be at his destined workl of winning a fortune. Alas! how many of us like him can recall such memories, and long to change the present days for those-the unreturling ones! His reverie was broken by a light step, and Ichabod stood before him.. He wore something of his old look again; his dress, if fantastic, was, at least, clean, and as usual the stalwart Lion was at his heels. 'Why, Ike," cried Gifford, " you look quite yourself again- as. hearty and well as if you had never taken that wild-goose chase of yours among the hills." "What's a wild-goose chase?' asked Ike, suspiciously, "What? - Why, a chase after a will-o'-the-wisp-a race with- out a goal-a running after nothing, to be sure." "And you think Ike has been running after nothing? X"Not puirposely," said Hugh, gently. He had an object in view, but was mistaken, perhaps, in the path he took to get at it."   THE QUEST 'OR FORTUNE.       2G5 'That'is the way with all the wise folks," returned Ike, sulk- ily, " everybody's mistaken but themselves. The beasts know how to suckle their young, and the birds -to make their nests, and even the sparrers know how to find the berries.; but they're all fools like Ike! Bime by, when the wise folks kin find what Ike kin, they'll be fools, I reckon, and Ike'll be a wise man." "Come, come," said Hugh, in his soothing way, which he seemed to keep for the simpleton, and use with no one else, "none of us are wise always, Ike; and if you accomplished tie object of your journey, so much the better." Ike sat down on the bench by Gifford's side, and began with  great industry to rearrange the feathers in his hat, while his com- panion relapsed into reverie. Presently, however, he was roused again by a touch on the shoulder, and, looking at Ike, he saw that the latter was pointing mysteriously to the north-east. ( There's Injuns there away," he affirmed sententiously. Hughnodded. "We always knew that-or supposed it." "'There's Injuns there away," repeated the other, ' but they won't hurt Ike."  'No??   "No;" and Ike resumed his work with the cherished feathers. After an interval he again broke silence: a They've gone and hid Dick's mare!" "Yes. She was tired and footsore, and they have given her a holiday." "They've hid Dick'sr mare," reiterated the simpleton; '( but there's hosses at Yankee Jim's that don't vant no holiday." "Yes?* "Yes," and once more the prpcess of redecoration went on. "I'm a fool," suddenly exclaimed Ike, interrupting his toils with a great outhurst of candor; " but not about everythink. Some folks ain't fools; but then again they ain't cute about any- think." "Ay," conceded Hugh, with a lazy assent to the proposition, "there are many who think themselves wise who don't khow more than Ike." "There's many who think themselves wise who know a darned sight less than Ike," corrected he decisively. Now," he con- tinned, after a few moments of deep reflection, "you're one on 'em." "T' said Hugh, smiling. "I want you to promise me something" said Ike, mistily changing the thread of his discourse, " afore I go any further." "What is it, Ike?" 12   266        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, "A promise to be kept as sacred as one to your sweetheart." Gifford turned crimson at the allusion; but Ike was too ab- sorbed in his -own effort at concentration and continuity to notice him. "You'll make a sacred promise, with Lion as a witness," he repeated. "If you wish it," answered Hugh, " and it's nothing wrong, I will.'  "Wrong, wrong!" echoed Ike, impatiently; "it's nobody's business but mine and your'n. I don'twant ye to kill no one, nor set the old ranch a-fire, nor yit hook the gold dust like old Panghurn. I ain't travellin' on anythink but what's right, I guess." "Well, well, Ike, 'I promise." "Seein'it's for your own good-as Lion knows as well as me -ye might as well. It's only to promise what I tell ye no one else shall ever know, 'cept I myself agree to their knowin' of it." "That's reasonable enough. I promise, faithfully." "That's you. I like to hear ye say 'faithfully,' for talkin' honest, Mr. Gifford, I don't feel quite sure how long my head 'll last, and'it sounds as though you'd carry out my idea if I give out.' Hugh looked at him with surprise. His words were perfectly coherent now; coherent as they had been on one other occasion when he had made a great effort to explain and to understand. Hugh had not sufficiently studied the pathology of such cases to be aware how it often happens that the afflicted can compass something very like sanity by a sovereign effort of the will; and although reaction be certain. to follow such an instance, that, during the effort,'the reasoning faculty is almost in a normal or healthy condition. ( .I'll do whatever you wish, Ike," said Gifford, " at least so far as I can, believe me." "Well, then," continued the simpleton, gravely;. "I wish ye to git up to-night arter the rest is asleep, and walk with me as far as to Yankee Jim's; there we'll git hosses, and at daybreak  we kin push on our way in the saddle." Gifford hesitated. There was something so like folly in this apparently aimless expedition that it seemed ridiculous to embark in it. On the other hand, he had promised acquiescence, and Ike's manner was so different from usual that he felt it would be extremely awkward to employ one of the commonplace eva. sions generally adopted with such people. He was greatly puzzled.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         267 "Youhe a fllinkin'," observed Ike, steadily, "that this ere fool's tryin' to git you on a chase arter the wild goose he's be'n travellin' arter liisself. Don't think that, Mr. Gifford. Don't think it this time. I hold ye to your word, mind; and I. agree and stipperlate ye won't be sorry ye kept it." "Be it so," exclaimed Hugh, after a little more reflection. "It shall be exactly as you wish, Ike- I'm sure you wouldn't give me unnecessary anxiety or trouble. I will do as' you de- sire. And now will you tell me, after that, Ike, what is the aim-the object of this queer journey of yours " Ike shook his head. "I'd rather ye tlustedclme clear through. P'raps," he added, ingenuously, " if I told ye the object ye wouldn't go, after all." "That's not very encouraging," returned Gifford, laughing. ' However, my word is passed, and I won't go behind it. At twelve o'clock, then, Ike?" "At twelve." said Ike, " or as nigh it as the rest may happen to be all sound. It wouldn't do for 'em to know I was stirrin' again, for they'd try and stop me, maybe, 'specially the Doctor." With this curious illustration of the gleams of sagacity that sometimes shot furtively athwart the dark texture of his mind, Ike whistled to Lion, and stalked away into the depths of the forest. Much as he doubted his own wisdom in giving the promise, Hlugh never dreamed, nowthat it was given, of revoking or quali- fying it; but he passed the daywith some uneasiness asie reflect- ed upon the many possible dangers and troubles his compliance might bring, not upon himself alone, but upon, his irresponsible companion.. Should anything befall, who would hold him justi- fiable in asse-nting to the plans of one so notoriously imbeclet if not absolutely idiotic? Such was the thought that- gave him most concern. On the other hand, he found a feeling within his breast which had almost the force of conviction, and which con- tinually urged a belief that, as Ike had declared, he would not be sorry for keeping his word. ' The day wore .on, as many another quiet Sunday had worn on before ; but Hugh's pleasure in its beauty, its softness, its cluster- ing associations, was marred, or merged into a longing curiosity h that the night might come and bring at least a beginning to the solution of Ike's mystery. It came at last with a deep, solemn starlight; but, as chance would have it, the family were wakeful that night, and it was quite twelve o'clock before, as Hugh    : judged, all could safely be deemed unconscious. IBe was just thinking of rising, as he lay on his narrow pallet, ,  I:   MARIAN ROOKE; OR,X when a hand passed lightly over his face, and he knew that Ike was beside him. He rose noiselessly, and quickly finishing the scanty operations of his toilette, Gifford thrust his revolver and hunting-knife into his belt, and strapping on his knapsack, in which he had provided a few biscuits and a flask of whiskey, the two stole forth into the darkness. Lion was already outside the door, waiting, apparently in accordance with a previous under- standing, until he should be joined by the others. There was no moon, but the stars were bright, and the air perfectly still, and the trio set forth on their march amid that un- earthly silence seldom observed, save in a new country, where the sounds of humanity and its adjuncts are few and very far be- tween. Now and again this silence was interrupted by the dis- tant cry of a coyote, which made Lion sniff the air with a con- temptuous sort of curiosity, for he had more than once grappled with and overcome these wolves of the prairie; but, for the most part, the silence was unbroken. All night long they tramped on, keeping near the river for a guide, with an occasional look upwards at the stars to make sure of being in the right direction. The distance to Yankee Jim's was upwards of twenty miles, a march which might have ex- hausted many who had not, like Hugh and Ike, lived so much in the open air, and who had not, as they had, since starting to cross the plains, spent so much time on their legs. As it was, they were not sorry, at the same moment that they saw the first red streak of day, to see the low roofs of two or three straggling huts which constituted the settlement. Here, as they were well known, after some little bargaining, Hugh managed to hire a couple of respectable, rough Californian ponies, much more surefooted and trustworthy for a long pull than if they had been two hands higher, or two hundi'ed weight heavier than they were. Having made arrangements to keep the animals for three days, Gifford and his companion turned back, as if to retrace their steps to the Bar; but before a mile had been traversed in that direction, they wheeled sharply to the left and made straight toward the north-east. All that day, and far into the following night, with only an occasional pause for frugal refreshment, the two horsemen wound, and forced, and struggled their way over hills, down valleys, across brooklets and marshes, skirting woods, avoiding moun- tains, sometimes fighting through caaparral. But they always made substantially for the north-east. Near midnight they bivouacked in a wood by the side of a little stream; and their sleep was even sounder than common,   for their march had been most wearisome, and with the faithful  Lion for a sentinel, there was small danger of being surprised. However, they saw no traces of Indians, although they were now on the borders of the lands where they were said to be numerous; and, although Ike averred that in his previous wan- derings he had encountered them more than once, their track was happily avoided on the present occasion. Towards daylight they again resumed their journey, and reso- lute as Gifford had been in keeping his word, his heart half failed him as he fouind that after all the great distance they had trav- elled-for they must now be more than fifty miles from Arm- strong's Bar-his companion insisted on proceeding still further. The aspect of the country had now altogether changed. The smooth, vernal character of the plain had given place to the rugged wildness of a mountainous district, and each step appear- ed to be taking them higher. The luxuriant clambering vines which thickened the chaparral of the lower country disappeared, and were replaced by scrubby oaks, or hardy, jagged evergreens. The redwoods grew scantier of foliage, and pointed upwards with sharper pencils. The atmosphere grew more rarcfied, while its temperature fell. They were evidently some thousands of feet above the level of the sea. Still the simpleton insisted that they should continue to push on. It is not to be supposed that during this strange journey Ike had remained absolutely silent as to its object. On the contrary, when they had left the settlement well behind them-when they had cut themselves adrift, as it were, from all other human knowl- edge or sympathy, he began to drop hints whence Gifford was not slow to draw some enlightenment touching his hopes and pur- poses. But Ike was not far from wrong when he anticipated that the knowledge thus suggested might, at the outset, have led Hugh to abandon the enterprise. It was clear that, whatever his weaknesses otherwise, his sagacity was not at fault when he declined to be more communicative until that enterprise had been seriously undertaken. The sun was mounting fast in the heavens, and was several hours high when Hugh began to think it was time to take a stand, and absolutely to refuse to go further. They had truly escaped the Indians thus far, but who should say how long that good fortune would last? At aniy moment they were liable to be captured, and, in the temper the savages were known to be, it was ten to one their lives would prove the sacrifice of a mere hare-brained, profitless act of temerity. Hugh pondered as to how he could explain his views and his determination to Ike in   270        nMARIN ROOKE; OR, a manner such as would avoid hurting his feelings and invite his qequiescence. But, just as the words were on his lips, the latter, who had always led the way, suddenlyr dismounted, and desired Gifford to follow his example. They were in a wide valley, enclosed on either hand by high mountains, and they had been advancing up this valley for some miles. As they advanced the valley narrowed, and at what ap- peared to be its end-which they had now reached-a wall of gray basaltic rocks rose, fiowning, e to a great height, and bar- red their further progress. This wall seemed quite impervious, and when Ike fastened the horses with his lariat, and made pre- parations for proceeding on foot, Gifford glanced curiously about on every side to see by what path he intended to make his way. But Ike, beckoning him to follow, strode straight through the bush as if for the base of the precipice, and Hugh and Lion followed. When he got close to the bottom of the rock :Ike turnedto the right, tracing its line for a space of two hundred yards and; when Htugh had accomplished this distance, he saw a singular rift or cleavage, bearing inwards at a very oblique angle to the left, and apparently as straight as if some sharp and tremendous instru- ment had split the mountain at a blow from top to base. Op- posite this passage was a confused maze of brush and tangle, which seemed-as impenetrable as the rock itself. Here the guide paused, and called to his dog, who came up promptly at the word. "In,! in! Lion!" cried Ike, and Lion instantly dashed into a small aperture which had escaped Gifford's eye. "It's jest as well," explained Ike, "to clear the way, seein' it's a likely good place for snakes and sech cattle." In a moment more he was at Lion's heels, 'and following him up the gorge. As they went on the air became icily cold.- Such, too, was the height of the rocks and the extreme narrowness of the pass, that before they had gone many-steps it became almost dark, and Gifford quite needed the assistance of his companions to find !his way. For a distance which seemed interminable, but which in reality was about half a mile, Ike followed his four-footed predecessor silently on. Neither made any pause, and it was evi- dent that the place was well known to both. At last they emerged in a space which was very like the apex of an inverted cone. Ranged around in an almost exact circle, precipitous mountains towered majestically in the air to so vast a height, that while their bases were sable, their peaks were   tI.  ,/       THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        271 of the most delicate ethereal blue. The bottom of the ravine, for an area of perhaps half a dozen acres, was covered withll vol- canic stones, mingled with the emerald green of patches of herb- age, and the grizzly, moss-grown gray of venerable trees. Scat- tered about were many heavy slabs of stone, some of which were blackened as by the action of fire. The lower steeps of the mountain were masked by innumerable parallel evergreens, which made up in numbers what they lacked in denseness of foliage, and which all pointed monotonously upwards. When they arrived at the centre of this remarkable retreat, Ike for the first time turned and looked Gifford full in the face with an indescribable expression of triumph. The dog, Lion, too, as if knowing that after his toilsome march all that was expected of him was performed, lay quietly down, and surveyed the scene with a look of complacent satisfaction. "Well, Ike," said Hugh, after such a pause as he thought af- forded ample opportunity for explanation. "Well, Ike! here we are, after all our trouble, and what next.?"At which Ike laughed aloud, as though one of the most mirth-exciting jokes had been perpetrated of -which he had ever been cognizant, and Lion, pointing his. nose in the air, attested his sympathy by giv- ing vent to a long, joyous howl. "What next?" repeated Hugh, somewhat impatiently. "What next!" echoed the simpleton, as he dragged up and overturned a huge slab of stone which lay directly at his ques- tioner's feet. "What next! Why, THS!" Gifford  started back with a cry of astonishment and delight- The ground beneath his feet was literally lined with gold. Some fragments under the stone had been certainly placed there by Ike in the way of a coup de theatre, but the richness of the soil was quite genuine enough  to need no artificial setting off. He rushed   i swiftly from place to place, turning over the stones, striking up  the soil here and there with his knife, lifting the great nuggets I: Ike had accumulated to make slre of their reality, doing all he   i could think of, in a word, to test the truth of the existence of the i; treasures the place unquestionably contained.    . The valley was an absolute pocket of the precious metal; and i: there lay there within easy reach of surface digging, the value of a million of dollars in gold.        A: "All your'n, all your'n!" cried Ike, dancing now in quite a   ' paroxysm ofjoy. "All your'n! A  present from me and Lion!    ; You're rich now! Ye kin do all ye want to in the world! And    s all-all-thanks to me and Lion!" and the poor fellow went into   :   272        MARIAN. ROOK; OR, peals of idiotic laughter, and finally threw himself on the green- sward and burst into a hysterical passion of tears. It was true. It was fulfilled suddenly, indeed, and not in the way he expected or thought it would have been ; but the dream and the hope of Hugh Gifford's life were accomplished at last, and he was rich. END OF THE 'ti'i00} BOOK.  ,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       273 :BOOKE THE FOURTH. CHAPTERlI I. HOT, smoky August! With the golden grain bowing and tilt- ing in the breezelgss air, and the short-cropped grass, interlaced with long lines of its own stolen hay giving forth perfume indeed, but beginning sharply to complain of the want of moisture. With the apples in the orchards blushing deeper and deeper, and the long, long swells of distant greenwoods broken and flecked with the crimson glories of the coming fall. With the hazy languor pervading everything which tells of fruition accomplished, and basking, voluptuous rest for man and beast during the pause which comes between the seasons. When Hugh Gifford complained of New England-of her bitter climate, her straight, formal roads, her dull, commonplace architecture, her barren scenery, he was very ungateful for what he himself had seen and enjoyed among the hills of Berkshire. Scarcely a spot on the continent affords more lovely views, more romantic vales, more charming little highland tarns, than the neighborhood of Lenox and Stockbridge. Far less grand indeed than the famous lake district of the mother country, it is scarcely less picturesque and captivating. IEut poor Hugh, like most of us, was swayed and tinged in his estimate of things without by the condition of things within. The young life had -'been so jaundiced and embittered, that it was not to be wondered at that scenes the remotest from those among which it had been passed were idealized always as the most beautiful. There is little ro- mance in the outer world when a cloud is on the soul, and the t Vale of Cashmere itself must have been anything but paradise to : a captive.                     v Not but that Hugh's strictures and complaints of man and nature in New England were just and sound enough; they were ;i both ; but, like most censors, he only told part of the truth, so 3 12*                       i   274        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, that without being unfaithful as to the letter, he conveyed but a partial picture as to the spirit. When he blamed the New Englanders as sordid and grasping, he should also'have borne witness that they were wonderfully vigorous and industrious. When he found just fault with the narrowness and prejudice of their manners, he might fairly have acknowledged the general uprightness and purity of their morals. When he pointed out the evidences of their weakness, he ought also to have indicated the sources of their strength. But few can afford to be truly just when speaking of countries and peoples ; and it will always hap- pen that in the court which, on such subjects, regulates the world's opinion, there will be a hundred advocates to a single judge. There are compensations in seasorn,- as there are apt to be in the characters of mankind ; and if the winters and springs of Massachusetts are cruel and inhospitable-if their very mention reminds us, with a shiver, of Plymhouth Rock and the Mayflower -.noble but most uncomfortable reminiscences!--it should be owned that her summers and autumns are proportionably invit- ing and delightful. There can be no season anywhere more de- licious- than the balmy Indian summer ; and brief though it be, nowhere are its choicest attractions more profusely bestowed than in Massachusetts. It was not time, properly, for the Indian summer; but, as often happens, something very like that season presented itself towards the last of August by way of precursor. The red even- ing sun was streaming aslant the broad fields and sprinkling trees of John Chester's farm at East Canaan-a nice, large farm, with a brown old wooden mansion, and a red old wooden barn, of much greater size, overlooking it hard by. The land lay on a wide slope, which inclined towards the south; and a silvei riv- ulet, which was parallel to the high road, went trickling on its way at its base. Facing this stream was the farm-house, with a piazza on two sides, and windows coming to the floor in the sit- ting-room 'and parlor, which respectively flanked the entrance- hall The windows of the sitting-room were wide open, and showed to any one passing without, the quaint, old-fashioned fur- niture, mingled here and there with some modern innovation, of the apartment within. They showed, too, a young lady seated in a racking-chair, and an old gentleman seated in an easy-chair, on either side of a table ; and that young lady seemed occupied with a letter which she held in her hand, while the old gentleman was equally absorbed with a child's slate. The girl was very beautiful. She has been before described in these pages as being fair, very fair, with hair of gold and skin   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        275 of pearl, and as having one charm rare in a New England girl, a low, musical voice, and another not so rare, a sweetly winning smile. To read her letters, or perhaps to be told the substance of her usual discourse, one might wonder how on earth Hugh Gifford'could have fallen in love, or fancied he had fallen in love, with her; but to see and to hear her was far different. Then the matter was simple ereough. He had seen this lovely crea- tu'e, become intoxicated with her beauty, and straightway en- dowed her with all the preconceived attractions of an ideal mistress he had, ever since boyhood, been busily creating and putting together. The man was all lines. Every muscle showed through his hardy, weather-beaten face, and his stringy mottled hands. His, hair was iron-gray, close clipped, and grew low on his wrinkled forehead. The mouth was flat, but not ungarnished with humor- ous lines, and his deep-set eyes were of a light, twinkling blue. His chin and lips were shaven, but a fringe of pepper-and-salt beard, hard and bristly, ran round his face from ear to ear. He was in his shirt-sleeves, and occasionally dried his beady brows with a silk handkercliief. "It's more'n two year and four months," observed this per- sonage, looking up incidentally from his calculations. He kept his teeth very close together, apparently for fear of spilling some- thing. "And it was to be for two year," he added, conclu- sively. "Yesi pa." "Which, seein' Gaycow's turned his money twice, let alone clearin' ,off the factory at Persepolis, and keepin' the store a-goin' at Canaan Centre, seems a heap o' time; don't it, now?" "Yes, pa." "Folks has to fly round and be up to time now-a-days. They don't allow me no four months, I notice, when the interest on the mo'gage comes doo. When Deacon Plodge put the new roof to our barn the fall arter the Pennefeathers sold their hay at eighteeni-fifty, I only gittin' eighteen-tAwenty-five, I put it to ye now, did he wait four months afore sendin' in his little ac- count?"  * No, pa."t That there changeable silk o' your'n-ye had that the time Gaycow come to board with us; they didn't wait no four months for that, nor nuthin,' when they intermated they'd like their pay? i No, pa." 6' AnO when we had to subscribe to send the Rev. Mr. Baubee )   276        MARAIN BROOKE; ORB to Europe, to cure his ,browncheeters, he wanted it afore he  went, may be, and not arterwards?" "But, pas people can't measure time for engagements just as if they were bills, you know." "I dunno; -some folks does. Look at Gaycow; he's a busi- ness man, he is. You know what he said the time of his grandma's funeral? It was a Saturday afternoon, ye know, over to Stockbridge; and Saturday bein' an awful busy day, Canaan folks sniggered some to think 'twould put him out; but he had the work all done, and the cash all balanced, and every- thing put through in good shape, and arrived jest as people was seneerin' he wouldn't come to his own father's mother's funeral, and jest as the coffin was bein' lugged out o' the house. And says he, ' Business fust and pleasure afterwards'; so from that day, I says alters to myself, Gaycow's bound to be a rich man." "I think it was a very unfeeling speech." "Onfeelin'! It didn't hurt nobody, did it? It didn't set the old lady-back any, I reckon; and it showed Gaycow never wasted his time. He's a different man, I take it, fromi Hugh Gifford."  "Yes," sighed Virginia, "very different." "One on 'em," said Mr. Chester, ejecting something into a box of sand near by, and afterwards speaking with more facility "one on 'em's a business man, and the other ain't; that's all there is about it." "Hugh was bred to a profession, pa, and it takes longer to get on in a profession than it does in trade. Besides, he's been unfortunate."  ,UTnfortinnit!- Yes, in never stickin' to anythin'. Purfes- sion! Well, look at our John. He's been at it the same time, and look at him. He's stuck to it, and he's riz from pint to pint, until at last he's goin' to have a Murder. Only last week, he writ me that this fall he'd have a Murder." "John has a different temperament. It costs him no effort whatever to stick, as you call it, to a single pursuit, he's so steady-going and phlegmatic. .Then he's always had an allow- ance, not much, to be sure, but' always enough to keep him." "Ah, well, it's easy onderratin of him; and bime by, if he turns out a Dan'el Webster, or a Rufus Choate, ye'll sing another song. Butisettin' him aside, jest think how many there is who've come'home from Californy in a year with enough to se$ 'em up slick and easy for life. Let's hear agen what 'tis he says about it."   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       2" Virginia turned the letter she held in her hand, and read from its last page as follows: ". . During most of my stay in California, then, I have cer- tainly been less f6rtunate than many others J You are already aware of the losses our company sustained through the dishonesty of one of their number. After that, the yield of gold from the Bar became very small, and it has never been greater since than to afford a very slender margin bevond what has been necessary for bare subsistence. Unlike other gold diggings, ours basbeen poor and unsatisfactory; and after a trial of many months, I am not disposed to work at Armstrong's Bar any further. The oc- cupation at'best is uncongenial to me; but when it is also almost utterly unprofitable, the incentive to its pursuit is indeed small. Notwithstanding this want of success,- however, I am not with- out high hopes for the future in other fields. That good in the world which it seems I am not to do here, I hope to do else- where. In a word, I am on the point of leaving California; and trust in a few weeks, or perhaps in less, to be able to follow' thig letter. It may be within a few days after it reaches you, that I also' may be with you; when it is my anticipation to meet the same sympathy and interest in my hopes and prospects which have never been wanting heretofore." The reader paused here, and read the last sentence a second time; and then paused again, and laid the letter on her lap. "Now, that ain't what I call a business letter," criticised Mr. Chester, with his teeth close together, for the impediment was accumulating again. "Why don't he say right out how much money he's got? I don't kear a darn 'bout sympathy, nor yit interest, nuther, 'cept the interest on my mo'gage. I put it to ye now, ain't a bargain a bargain?" "Yes, pa." "Well, the bargain was, that in two years he was to accoo- moolate a certain sum, pintin' allers to the easin' of my mo'gage; sech a transaction to be follered by another, to which you bein' the princerpal, with my consent."  'Yes, pa." "Well, now, Virginny, it looks to me as if nuther on ye was so set-on carryin' out that transaction as ye was two year ago." "Does it, pa?" "It looks to me," continued Mr. Chester, drawing his lines closer and harder, and eyeing his daughter in a gimblety sort of fashion, " as if nuther on ye'd fi'et much if that 'ere transaction was laid on the table."                   .  i "Yes, pa."             ,             ' .   278         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, "It looks to me," he proceeded, expectorating boldly, and be- coming more confident and free of speech as a consequent, " as if one side of -a bargain bein' broke, the other gits sot free, as a matter of course." Virginia said nothing, but kept looking at the letter in her lap. . a Symperthies and prospecs," observed her father, philosophi- cally, after a reasonable pause for a reply, "6 air very good things in their way, but they won't keep the pot a boilin', nor the mare a goin'. Talkin' of which," he added, casually, "have you seen that 'ere new span of Gaycow's?" No, Virginia hadn't. "Talk to me o' yet Cuticle Flips," said Mr. Chester, with en- thusiasm. ' Why, they ain't nowhere. It's the pootiest turnout I ever see, and if even the Baubee grays kin hold a candle to that span, ye kin boot me, that's all!" . "I heard the horses were very handsome." "And that 'ere new house front o' his'n," went on pa, rhap- sodically; " it mayn't be the Baubee Parthenon, but its a likelier elevation, to my way o' thinkin'. I heer'n tell it was moddled on the Alhambrly." "Ah!" "What with the Canaan Varieties, and the Persepolis Fac- tory, he dan't be a rakin' in less than three thousand dollars a year."         '  "Every one says he's growing rich." "Puttin' of it short, Virginny," concluded Mr. Chester, fixing his lines at their sternest tension, and heavily augmenting the contents of the sand-box- "' Puttin' of it short, if John gits a Murder, I think the least you kin do is to clear off that mo'gage " "CIf Hugh brings back money  " beganVi  ia, faintly. '"Don't run away with that idee now, I warn ye. I never know'd a man yit who'd made money who was ashamed to say so. Why should they be? Seein' it mnakes 'em pop'lar and re- spected, and gives 'em credick and importance with their feller men? I don't bet much on a young man goin' oh thirty who trav- els excloosive on his symperthies and prospecs. Travellirn on new roofs and mo'gages; or, may be," with a keen concentra- tion of the facial lines on his daughter, "or, may be, travellin' on new spans and Alhambrys soots my style. There's allers time for symperthizin' and prospectin' arter folks gits ahead in the world; and it's a blamed bad sign if they take to't when they're behindhand." "We can't expect people to be all alike, pa. Hugh was   !;)    *     THE QUESTFOR FORTUNE.         279 brought up very differently from many we know. He is a ver : sensitive man and has been highly educated, and naturally writes and feels as many wouldn't." }  "Has his eddication pinted out any gold mines? , Has bein' sensitive made him any cuter on the main chance? This here ain't no country for palaverin' and splittin' hairs, but for fvorkin'  and mskin' money in. I tell ye what it is, Virginny, I'm in the best kind of a position to judge about these things. I married. i poor; not but I allers loved your mother as long as she lived, oor thing; but, pecooniarily peaking, that'ere ill-judged trans- action has been pullin' of me back all my life. Its been the cause of mo'gages and leaky roofs and poor hay, and a heap o' troubles besides. I've bin a racing all my days to git even on that fust mistake. I don't want to offer to coerce ye, far from it; but I put it to ye to choose atween abundance and stent comfort and onsartainty, Gifford and Gaycow.  Fur be it from me to offer to set ye agin' your future happiness; and if the mo'gage is made all right, I won't say boo, leastways unless I'm asked; in which case, as a father, I still think'I should say Gay- cow." : With this statement Mr. Chester departed, in the belief that a favorable period had arrived for leaving his daughter to her own reflections. Perhaps his sagacity was not at fault when he abstained from urging his wishes more strenuously. The ex- ' hibition of a strong will often provokes opposition where a mere amiable preference will enlist concurrence; a probability which many a  parent, from the time of old Capulet downwards, has for- gotten, to his -own detriment, but to which the Yankee farmer as fully alive. /te was not ignorant, too, that he had formi- dable allies fighting on his side; allies whose aid was unremit- ting, and of a character which he had seldom known to fail. The constant reference of all hopes and purposes to the most sordid passions which find entrance in the human breast, on the part of all who came in contact with her-the feminine love of dress, and the scarcely less potent love of the elegant and costly in furni-  ure and equipage-the bitter disappointment she felt at heart on the score of Hugh's apparent failure-all these were perpetually   ; at work to second her father's wish to break off the engagement.  ! There was also a  further emotion irfVirginia's breast, which had ever been latent there, but which might have remained inactive or ultimately have been altogether extinguished but for the    it other verifying causes. This was a certain fear of Gifford, which had its rise in a conviction of his ability to detect, and his readi- ness to condemn, various tastes and weaknesses whose indul-    ili Iii),   2SU M nA ROIOKE; us, gence it would quite mar the pleasure of her life to forego. She knew-as most women, even if they are not very intellectual, areqwift to know-that his admiration for her beauty, at first so undisguised, would not always blind him to qualities which lay behind it ; and she shrank from the discovery and its conse- quences. There was none of this sort of apprehension ringled with her thoughts of Gaycow. If she was fond of dress, he was fond of dresS. If she admired showy furniture and stylish equipages, he admired them as well. If she derived an extravagant gratifi- cation from exciting the envy and wonder of Canaan, it was a  passion wherein he could fully participate. If she could glory in a turn-out that eclipsed the Baubee grays-could exult in pal- ing the glow-worm of a Parthenon before the sun of an Alham- bra-were not these the objects of his choicest ambition? To do Virginia justice, there was, however, enough of her to enable her to despise Gaycow; but she thought it might perhaps be better to despise than be despised. This may not be an un. natural illusion, even if the alternative is soundly put; the mis- ery it has occasioned, and every day does occasion, many a woman who reads these pages can attest. iVirginia knew that the faculties which enabled Mr. Gaycow to buy cheap and sell dear; to delude his customers into paying a larger profit than his capital and industry fairly earned; to save interest by putting off payment, and to make it by insisting upon its addition to ac- counts owing to himself; to get the better, by one device or an- other, in short, of three-fourths of those with whom he came in contact; Virginia knew that these faculties, if not utterly and comprehensively base, were still among the lowest and least worthy which a man could possess. She knew that if they ena- bled him to heap up millions, he would still be by far the inferior of IIugh Gifford, standing unfriended and without a dollar. But, unhappily, she also knew that the world by which she was surrounded would not agree with her in this estimate; and to captivate, subdue, outshine the world, to conquer its suffrage, and taste to the full its pleasures, were objects too darling to be entirely foregone. Her soul recoiled too with genuine disgust at the prospect of a long career of poverty-perhaps even want-- as the bride of a man whom the Canaanites were unlikely ever to delight to honor; a poor, paltry, gossiping village circle, per- haps; but was it not better to despise than to be despised! When she contemplated the prospect of Hugh's returning rich anad prosperous, such a contrast as this never suggested itself to her mind. She only thought that young men who went away   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       281 from home poor, were expected to make and bring home their fortunes as matters of course. There was something horribly blank and dreary in the idea of a young man coming home poorer than he went! Canaan might stand much, but nothing so mad as that. The opinion of the world may be worthless enough, but since we are compelled to live in it, for comfort's sake, if nothing else, we must really pay it some little defeience. What a sickening sensation it would be to be dusted by the triumphal . chariot of Gaycow; to be smiled upon with cold commiseration i by the Pastile PF. Baubees; to be openly sneered at by the Pen- nifeathers; to be calmly cut by that Belle Tarbox who had mar- ried so excellent a Thing in fish! Ugh! it must not-could not -be thought of. Sometimes nobler thoughts would rise in Virginia's breast, and she would say to herself, that if Hugh were unhappy, so much the greater his need for consolation, that if fortune proved faith- less to him, so much the more her cause to be faithful; that, after all, riches of any material sort might take wings to them- selves and fly away; how, for example, would she like to be a poor Mr. Gaycow? but that atrue and honest love had no wings after they had once borne it to a lasting resting-place. Besides -and here the selfish element came in again--Hugh was an in- tellectual man, and such men often made their mark and took the world by storm in the long run, even when insignificant enough and little heeded at the outset, Such a triumph she thought was something like that of true love, in that it could not be taken or tricked away by the caprices of fortune. Such were Virginia's thoughts as she gazed forth on that smoky August evening, as the sun went down in his blood-red glory, and the yellow moon, like a disk of burnished gold, sailed slowly up in the opposite sky. She had to think gravely, and to decide quickly too; for the same moon that looked pityingly down upon her troubled counsels, looked dokn on the trackless . ocean as well, and lighted the ship which bore her betrothed as it breasted the waves which rolled about his home. :. i! '^-                  ;L  to * i'   "ANo'lhnaK year!" "Only, if you think it best, Virginia. I propose that you shall have the option. For me, I am ready at any time-now, this week if you will-to fulfil our engagement." "But, you see, father thinks that-that under all the circum- stances it would be so imiprudent,-so  "Precisely. And for that reason I propose the alternative." "That would make six years, Hugh." "I know. Too long, in all fairness, to keep any girl wait- ing; I acknowledge that; but the decision must rest with her- self. There is no obligation here, save on the man's part." "I'm sure I've never changed, Hugh," her voice trembled a little as she spoke, "but if I can escape being thought undutiful and rash   " "You had rather do so. That seems rational enough, and I quite agree it would be wise to avoid such an imputation. It is only reasonable, I repeat, that since my share of the contract ap- pears to have been only partially kept--I mean since I am not ready to do what your papa stipulated for, and I agreed to-that you should have the choice of waiting still further, or-or of holding yourself entirely absolved." Virginia looked at him. He looked older than when she saw him last, by more than two years. His face was tanned and roughened,' too, so that the delicate cutting of the features, and the rather feminine beauty of the complexion, had no longer the attractions they used to have. Then, his clothes ! If he wished to appear to advantage before his lady love, what persuaded Gif- ford to wear that dark, rusty, suit which was so suspiciously like the one she had last seen him wear ? She bit her lips with a scarcely concealed vexation, and he followed her eyes with a pained, and yet curious smile. " Pray understand, Virginia, that in proposing our immediate marriage, I consider myself quite in a position to support awife; and that there does not seem to me the least reason to fear that my position will become worse than it now is." " I understand," she said. It was in a tone which implied -that she did not think it possible.   "So that," continued Gifford, quietly, "there need be no ap- prehension on your part of burthening me, prematurely, with such responsibilities. You may be sure there is no danger of that." Virginia knew'that she had not thought of the contingency in precisely such a bearing. She knew that her sole reflections had been of hardship to herself in foregoing competency-of wedding respectable poverty when she had expected easy abundance. There was something wretchedly disgusting to her in this placid contemplation of a mere honest, homely subsistence in place of the style, the fashion, the elegance she had so often thought of, yearned for, and anticipated; and she heaved a deep, woeful sigh. "The chances are," said Hugh, "indeed, that my prospects may be better rather than worse. Still I had rather you did not look forward to any material change for some years to come." She made an impatient gesture.  "Why should I look for change at all ?" she exclaimed, with ill suppressed bitterness. "I am only a plain farmer's daughter; and a poor one at that. I ought to content myself, I take it, to stay in the position I was born in without looking' to rise out of it." "Most people," said Gifford, regarding her steadily, "in this country strive to rise in the world. It may be right, or it may be wrong. It may, or not, make them happier. But such is the fact; and there is nothing unusual or blamable in such an ambi- tion. But I infer, fiom what you say, that you don't care to wait for another year-is it so ?T"  I don't quite know what to say," answered Virginia, hesita- ting. "You see, father has iun away with an idea that you shouldn't have come home unless-unless  " "Unless I had made a fortune ?" "At least, without being better off than you went. And he's more strict and exacting about such things than ever. And John being away-and.mnother gone, you know-I being an only child, and to leave him contrary to his will, and quite alone-- " "True. It is natural and right that you should hesitate." There was a mixture of truth and deceit-of pathos and hy- pocricy-in what Virginia said that too often colors the argu- ments of poor, frail mortals. Her father knew all she did about Gifford's position. He was more anxious than not to get her off his hands, so that she went off handsomely. The rest of it was genuine enough. Hugh put the best acceptation upon the whole.  284        MAEIAN ROOKE; OR, "Let the matter be referred to your father, then," he said, "and, with his aid and counsel, come to your decision." If it be true that a man loves the meat in his youth he cannot endure inhis age, and that such fickleness involves no moral de- linquency, I cannot see the justice of the eternal censures level- led- against changes in matters of the heart. It may be urged that Hugh Gifford never really loved Virginia Chester, since all the time that he was speaking with her, the image of Marian Rooke was conjured up beside her, and constantly supplying the, means for invidious comparisons. But, whether he ever had or not, he was firmly resolved that no chance for real happiness should be lost to her through him, so far as it was- clear that he could supply it. There may be various opinions as to the course he was pursuing; some men, under all the circumstances, might have behaved differently and better ; some might have behaved differently and worse ; but, as always, we have to deal not with what he might have done, but with what Gifford actually did. This was within a week of the time when Virginia had receiv- ed his letter, so that her father and herself had had ample time to discuss the question in all its possible lights and bearings. Gifford had arrived at New York, and almost directly after made his'way to Canaan, and -unfolded himself as -has been related. As he walked slowly back to the village tavern where he had left his slender luggage, he passed a very large and flaunting shop, over which, in letters of gold, was suspended the following legend . ALPHONSO GAYcOW AND Co., W. I. GOODS, DRY GOODS, AND GENERAL PRODUCE. In front of this shop stood a vehicle, or rather the skeleton of zavehicle, tastefully painted in lake and gold, and weighing ap"- parently about fifty or sixty poufds. To this vehicle were at-  tached two prodigiously tall bay horses, well groomed and har-' nessed, and in a high state of impatience. Hugh looked at the establishment with some surprise, as being a somewhat unusual turn-out for a quiet country neighborhood; but he had not the remotest idea how far it or its owner, the flashy shopkeeper aforesaid, might'have any effect upon his own matrimonial pros- pects. The aid and counsel of Mr. Chester, who was ever of a prac-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        285 tical turn, were concise and pointed enough. He saw Virginia immediately after her fiance's departure, and listened to her recital of the conversation with interest and impatience. "Wait another year!" he, exclaimed, as this proposal was touched upon. "Why, he'll want ye to wait till ye look like the last of pea-time, and no one else 'll have ye." Virginia smiled, and glanced at the old-fashioned mirror over the mantel with an assurance that expressed a mind at ease on that point, if upon no 'other. 1 "I know-I know," said her parent, answering the glance. "I know you're dreadful handsome-no pootier girl in Canaan, no, not in Centre, East or West; but looks is looks, and don't last allers. However, that's neither here nor there. Here's the pint: how much did he say he was wuth?" "Why, pa, I didn't ask him that." "Didn't ask him?" "No, pa, how should I?" Pa gazed at his offspring curiously for a while, as though she had suddenly become a highly interesting psychological study. He was reflecting, perhaps, that for his part he should hardly have asked Gifford anything else. Then a vision dawned upon him as he rolled over his quid, and knotted and unknotted his astute countenance, that possibly there might be some indelicacy in a young lady thus situated putting so leading a question, and that, after all, it left the whole field of interesting inquiry open to his own strictly appropriate investigation. He looks kind o' seedy, don't he?" he asked indirectly. "I'm afraid, poor fellow, he isn't too rich," sighed Virginia: "Poor fellow!" echoed Mr. Chester. "Poor fellow! Come now, don't. It ain't so bad's all that comes to, is it?"       "I don't know what you mean by as bad as that ;comes to," cried Virginia, pettishy. "But it seems to me if he had any-   J thing to speak of, he wouldn't keep so still about it." "It ain't the way in Canaan, that's a fact. But may be he means to surprise ye."                      ! "No. He says if we marry now, there'll be no material change-for the better he means-anyhow for some years."  "But he wants ye to wait anuther fast T?"            -i. "He doesn't want me to, or not to; but to do as I like, he   ! says, and as you think best."                   j Mr. Chester chewed on for some time in contemplative silence.  li "I bin round to the tavern," he observed, at length, thought-   '  ,fully, "and see his luggage. Things was so I couldn't look int'  ! !;(I!- C                 [a:   286        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, the insides' of all on 'em; but the gen'ral aspect is blamed skeary." "You shouldn't have done that, pa," said Virginia, coloring. "It was quite permiscuous and onbeknown. Buyin' a plug of terbakker, may be, and happenin' round the house arterwards. Besides, they was al a lookin' at it." cAll! Who?" Who? Why, Jake Barker, and Jim Pennifeather, arid Gay- cow, and all on 'em; bein' one o'clock and all hum to dinner. East Canaan's dull jest now, and news is news." "Did he--did Alphonso-know who it was that had come?" "Bless ye, yes; and all about it; and so does all Canaan. And the hull place is watchin' the thing to see how the cat'll jump." Virghiia reddened more than before. "You mean tp see whether my engagement with Mr. Gifford is broken off or not?" "Sartain.. There's a gin'ral feelin' that if he's come back empty-handed-and it looks plaguey like it-that it's darned bad treatment; and that there ain't a gal in Canaan'd put up with it; leastways no gal not with your advantages. And old Jake, bein' a fifty year friend, as I may say, went so fur as to tell me that it was my dooty to put my foot down, and that if Mr. Baubeewas to hum he'd put a stop to the hull thing quicker!" and Mr. Chester screwed his face up, into a tight knot, spat profusely into the sand-box, and looked inquiringly at his daughter. "It's no one's business what I choose to do in the matter, pa," she replied, with some heat, " any mote than it is to inves- tigate DMr. Gifford's luggage." "Well, Canaan will be Canaan, ye know, Virginny, and the folks feel as though they ought to be up to everythink. If they thought ye was no account, they wouldn't be so curus." "Consolingj certainly. The more insignificant a person is, the less they'll be pestered with impertinent curiosity." "Jest so. Talkin' of beans," continued Mr. Chester, 'after a short pause, "there was Alphonsy's new turn-out front o' the store, as large as life. And comin' down Evergreen Avenoo there was Amandy Stokes in that raspin" gownd you call a Mur- ray Ann iTick. No sooner on Main Street, than down she sails straight for the store. So I halted right round our corner, and- peeked a spell, and, sure enough, out come Gaycow and hists her into the wagon, and away they went up the street as though they was sent for!'."                   \:   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        287 , w No answer. I reckon," observed Mr. Chester[ pleasantly, "they was goin' for a nice drive to Crab-apple Grove; or may be to Spy Pond." Virginia was silent still. "I heer'n tell," continued her father, after another pause, (the Splodge gals bein' well posted on such truck, that 'ere Murray Ann Tick cost more'n four dollars a-yard." "It couldn't!" cried Virginia, breaking out violently; " three- and-a-half at the outside, and dear at that!" Mr. Chester shook his head sorrowfully: "Hen Splodge's been clerk to A. B. Cookey and Co.'s, in Bosting, five year, goin' on six, Virginny. I reckon the gals is posted on them things, if any one is. Besides," he added, reflectively, "Gaycow's smart, he is, and I don't think, as things are goin', he'd kear to drive out anything at three-and-a-half." "Nonsense, pa; he wouldn't think of such a thing. And he wouldn't drive that homely girl out at all, if Hugh Gifford wasn't here." "Why," queried pa, ingenuously, " what's that got to do with it?" "Never mind. What is it you want me to say?" "Say! What about?" "Why, to Mr. Gifford, to be sure. He's coming this evening to hear what you think, and we're to have an understanding, and all that." And you don't know, honest, how much he's wuth?" cNo." ,           -     . "When I fust heerd," said Mr. Chester, crossing his legs, and going off calmly into extraneous reflections-" when I fust lieerd that Pamelia Staples had married a Flip, I calkilated there : was one chance less in Canaan.  Wheni Bell Tarbox married      - out o' the town, it weren't, as you may say, treadin' on no one's toes, and I didn't have no call to grumble. But if Amandy Stokes was to marry a Gaycow!   Well, I wouldn't crowd the    I mourners no further than to say, it would be tight papers; but there is sech a thing as,kerryin' a joke too fur."         }j "What do you wish me to say to Mr. Gifford?"           : "I don't go strong for vanity, nor yit pomp; but a stylish gal in a Murray Ann Tick, behind two lofty pelters that kin go, let's say, to the inside o' three, is a soarin' sight!"     - "Think," proceeded the speaker, finding his encomium elicit-   i ed no response, "think o' them  pelters drawin' proudly up in fiont of the Alhambry, driv' along showy, and brought up all   !j   288         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, standin' A nigger appears, and bowin' low, throws open the palatial hall. Permiscuous and kind o' careless, Gaycow de- scends; Gaycow, lord of every shoe-peg in Persepolis; master 'of the hull variety trade in Canaan. He hands down the lady of his ch'ice. She alights, springy and easy, a rustlin, a shinin, and a cracklin'! As' she moves; delicate perfooms float upon the air, and folks travellin' along-incloodin' the hull female popu- lation of Canaan--bile with envy! Another minute and the portals is closed, closed agin the vulgar herd-for only Canaan's brightest and best is allowed in them dazzlin' halls. Sech would be the fate of her who weds Alphonsy; sech the lot of a Mrs. Gaycow!"' The picture was truly as absurd as it was attractive ; but Vir- ginia was by no means insensibleto the advantages which it sug- gested rather than described. It could not be denied that the young trader was daily gaining in wealth, and consequent popu- lar estimation. While Gifford appeared to have retrograded, the happy speculator in shoe-pegs and varieties had steadily advanced. His wife would be the richest woman in Canaan. She would be known like Lady Clifford to all the country round. Of what avail were the intellectual qualities, the unproductive talents of Hugh, when weighed against the dollars of his rival? "With regard to Mr. Gifford, pa," she said, in a confused maze of thought. 4 Oh!" exclaimed Mr. Chester, as if to a sudden break in the thread of the conversation, and drawing the lines of his face closer and closer, as he narrowly eyed his daughter. "; P'raps you'd like me to talk to him a spell?" She knew instinctively what this meant. It was tantamount -with Giffird's high spirit, and her father's sordid one-to a conclusion likely to be a final one. If Mr. Chester did not eagerly accept the proposal to release Virginia -from her promise, he would be sure to annex conditions to postponement, such as would make it practically equivalent to the same thing. Was it her good angel which now pleaded and struggled in Virginia's bosom, urging her to say aloud : "No; the one man I can love and respect ; the other, never. The -wealth of the last shall not buy, nor the poverty of the first dismay me. I will marry where my heart can go with my hand, and take the chance afterward for fortune." Whether or no, the struggle in her breast was a fierce one. There was much in the girl of the poetic, much that was capable of a higher development than she had yet been able to attain; and she felt that inward conviction which is so unerring, that such   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        289 an expansion, such an elevation, would be possible were she mated with one of these men, hopeless for ever with the other. There was little doubt she could marry the trader if she chose. His ad- miration for her beautiful person had long been undisguised, and was indeed a common topic of village tattle. Her known en- gagement had truly. prevented him from making Virginia an offer; but it prevented nothing else. It had not precluded fre- quent visits since he first came to board in her father's house; profuse compliments, offers of gifts, which she had happily the grace to decline, unmistakable glances at church, in the shop, or in the highway. . Moreover, old John Chester, if not as rich as many, was known to be thrifty, and his son was a rising young man  and the family had that savor of respectability which, even among the plutocratic descendants of the Puritans, long res- idence and a fairname will purchase some share of; so that, all things considered, it was not a bad match even for the rising Gaycow. She could marry him if she chose, but in doing so what did she resign?                       r Virginia hesitated; and the devil, as usual, was lying in wait for his opportunity. For, as she looked through the open win- dow-, across the piazza, through the warm, smoky, air, over the tinkling rivulet, to the high-road on the other side, there dashed ,; by the sumptuous equipage so much extolled, and there-lean-   ! ing back in his seat, with his air of flippant audacity, chatting with the gorgeous Amanda, whose black eyes and glossy hair were set off by her purple moire-antique-drove the prosperous   ; -Gaycow in all the bloom of youth and May of dollarhood. Nor, as the vehicle spun gaily by, the handsome horses displaying themselves so consciously as knowing how much they were look- ed at and admired, was the picture in all its details uncompleted; for, plodding slowly behind,-his rusty black clothes well dusted 1 by the carriage which had passed him, came along the road-  Hugh Gifford. His head was bowed as if in deep thought, and   i he paid no .regard to anything around him. Onward he trudged  I in the track of the now distant wheels, until clump of trees in- 'I tervened, and he, too, disappeared.               j  "I suppose you had better speak with him," said Yirginia, at  ! last, wearily.                       - "That's my idee," returned her father unconscious of what   I she had seen, but quite pleased and rather surprised by her un- j' qualified assent. ' There's many things a man don't feel a call I: to let on to a gal, he'll tell to her authorized gardeean. I don't ! want ye to think, Virginny, that I want to coerce ye in any way. 13r3 lii   MARIAN lOOiJK; UO, The mo'gage havin' waited some time, kin wait a spell longer, I 'pose ; and if, as you say, he agrees to fix things in a year ' I didn't say so," interripted the girl, impatiently; "he said nothing definite-nothing on the subject." "Oh !" exclaimed Mr. Chester, with an air of great surprise, as if he had been laboring under a complete misconception about the matter. "He didn't say he'd fix the mo'gage i  a year!, Maybe, then, he ain't a calkilating to fix it at all " " I don't know ; you can ask him, I suppose. "Fur be it from me to offer to interfere with your feelings, Virginny ;" and the fond father celebrated theprogress of his wishes with a fresh quid ; "but if that air bargain ain't a goin' to be kenied out, what with Gaycow admirin' you to kill, and John havin' a Murder and everythink-I'll put it to ye, now ; air folks any.more likely to rush a thing through in one year, arter they've tried and broke down a tryin' of it in two " " I don't know; perhaps not." "And I don't know, neither," said Mr. Chester, ionically; "but I'll ask, and then, p'raps, I'll find out." "Don't-don't speak to him too much about that-not at first, pa !" said Virginia, painfully. "'Bout what ?" ", About money." "Don't be afeard: I'll fetch it in kind o' slantin', so's he'll tell it all himself." And he did; at least he received that night from Gifford a clear statement, to the effect that he was by no means prepared to make the stipulated advance, and that he quite agreed with Mr. Chester in the opinion that such a defection on his part fairly included the waiving of his pretensions to the handof Vir- mgia, should such a relinquishment be desired by the.lady and her faily. On the other hand, Hugh expressed a sanguine be- lief that in another twelvemonth he would be able to compass the difficulty, and his-readiness to bind himself to such a com- pact at the option of the other contracting parties. To this lat- ter proposal Mr. Chester lent a willing eai. A bargain which might bring profit, and could not possibly bring loss-a contract which imposed cndi      onditi ons on one side, leaving the other un- shackled-was to him especially grateful, when to him was the prospective profit, and to another the fettering conditions. He understood, in a general way, that Gifford had been un- lucky, but that he did not despond; that he held Virginia to no promise, but was willing, in view of unfulfilled expectancies, for at least a year longer to be himself so pledged. At the expiration   TIHE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.   of that time the Chesters could decide whether they would hold him to the engagement or set him free. It seemed a rather one-sided arrangement, but was frankly offered, and Mr. Ches- ter was not the man to let any ultra-chivalrous compunctions stand between himself and the light; therefore, so far as le was concerned, it received his hearty approval and subscription. Virginia, too, when this was formally proposed to her, although she blushed a little, and her woman's instinct did not fail to teach her there was something mean about it, saw many advantages of simplicity and directness in the plan which commended it to the baser portions of her nature with a force almost impossible to resist. The struggle was, practically, no other than what goes on with most people every day: on one side, all that looks most flatter- iug to ease, vanity, selfishness, bedecking a road broad and sim- ple to follow; on the other, whatever is most uninviting to such passions, but also something which, dificult and tortuous though it appear, an unerring consciousness for ever whispers is the better, the nobler, the permanently enduring path which surely will repay the bitter effort which shall now be made to follow it. If Virginia could have made her election aright, she would have grown into a noble and beautiful woman. She was at a tide which, taken at the flood, would have led her to no less glori- ous a fortune. But she was weak, and she temporized. She thought the flood would return, at the least, three hundred and sixty-five times-a long stretch to look ahead! and she could judge meanwhile of the shoals and eddies and quickds which might make it unwise to trust it. When the agreement had been made, Gifford appeared, strangely enough, to think that it was not sufficiently binding upon himself. He strove to impress upon Virginia that, while he was always to be considered as firmly pledged, she was by no means to let that consideration fetter her own wishes, should she at any time wish the affair at an end. He also assured her-and with an earnestness which betrayed more feeling than he had yet shown since his return-that he felt sure of being within the year in a position to satisfy all the conditions, provided she were un- changed and agreed. Was it the conviction that his own con- duct had not been so ingenuous as it should have been 'that in- fused this feeling into his manner, on the last evening he sat with Virginia, before his departure from the village  I know not. I know that there were warm tears on her peach-like cheek, and that he-for the fTst and last time-kissed them away. I know  292         MARA  R OOKE; O1, that there were moments, when only the round harvest moon looked down upon them, that both Hugh and Virginia were each trembling on the brink of foregoing certain cherished resolutions. But neither did so; and the next day the village gossips were disconsolate, and the old life went on uncheckered, for the shabby-looking stlrager had gone, and Canann saw Mm no more. CHAPTER lI. IT is, p'hap, needless to confess that all this wile Hngh Gifford was a very rich man. How far he was, or was not, jus- tified in the course he had thought fit to adopt, is a matter wherein casuists are likely to differ. That Virginia gained a right, when she plighted her troth, to a share in any advantages her betrothed might subsequently acquire, may certainly be maintained. That Gifford had a right, if possible, to test the sincerity of her affection, and at least afford himself the satisfac- tion of knowing that her feelings were not sorely swayed by in- terest, may perhaps be allowed. On the whole, scrupulous judges may be disposed to declare that our hero's ruse deserved censure. But I cannot forget that Hugh's early life, and the grovelling spirits which-surrounded it, had fostered the quality of suspiciq to a degree which was really foreign to his nature; and I feel constrained in passing judgment on any criminal to take into consideration just such circumstances as these. It is in vain that we seek to apply arbitrary standards to measure the amount of right or wrong which attaches to different individuals for the same act ; in vain, at least, so far as the effort is expected to teach anything serviceable, excepting the divergence which exists between human justice and the divine. I therefore leave this portion of Hugh's life to such mercy as it may get, content- ing myself with describing facts and their fruits, rather than with speculating as to motives and their morality. In the place to which Ichabod had so mysteriously led .him, Gifford found a vast store of gold. It had been his immediate desire to bring the company of Armstrong's Bar to participate in the treasure; but this Ike stoutly resisted, reminding Hugh of his promise to reveal to no one the discovery which had been made without the consent of the original discoverer. A com- ?'   THE QUESr FOR FORTUNE.       293 promise was at last arranged, to the effect that after the two should have obtained a certain sum-placed by Ike at a very high figure-the others were to be apprised of their good fortune, and invited to share it. Without dwelling on details, it will suffice to record that within three months the adventurers man- aged to extract, and--a far more difficult task--to onvey to San Francisco in safety, a sum of three hundred thousand dollars. This sum, Ike insisted, was Gifford's. He would take his share of what might afterwards be found, as one of the company; but the first cream of the placer he positively refused to touch. It was his offering, so far as he had any rights in it, to Hugh; and nothing would satisfy him but its unreserved acceptance. The former knew the obstinacy with which he had to deal too well to combat it openly. ie therefore resolved to lay aside a round sum, which, come what might, would furnish the half-wit with  a comfortable llfe-long provision, and for the present to let tilhe subject drop. It was part of Ike's scheme--and he exhibtited throug-hout a degree of cunning which seemed to his companion quite aston- ishin--not to return to Armstrong's Bar, or to 0ommunicate with its inhabitants, until his own views were successfully carried out. They could contrive-to get food, he said, fr'om other points, by striking the trail leading to Downieville, eighteen miles to the west; they could find means to send -back the horses to their owners at Yankee Jim's, and could arrange for needful supplies to come by the same route. Money would3 buy  all they wanted and it was better to take any amount of trouble --hauls pack, or even carry their supplies a distance of twenty miles, lather than run the risk of hiaving their treasure dis-  covelred and the spot overrun before they had gathered its  ,fruits, To the first part of this scheme Gifford demurred, upon the  very obvious ground that, hould their fiends at the Bar hear i nothing of them, they would speedily institute researches, and  - get up a hu e and cry which might prove more fatal to their pro- i jects than anything else could possibly be. It was finally d r- ' ranged that a letter should be forwarded f irom a remote point,  which should assure the party of their safety and speedy return  from thei expedition, which was described as an experimens tal  one for the sale of prospecting; and this letter could be-as, - j; indeed, it was- ollowed up fromn time to time by others in aI manner to forestall anxiety and keep matters quiet at the Bar. : The other details w ere consummated as Ike proposed; and   '!, although the plan involved, as it turned out, all manner of p ri- :i -L -     !;i   294        MARIAN 9OOKE; OR, vations and difficulties, yet they managed to preserve health and strength sufficient to carry out the work, and that with a speed which only those who have known what it is to dig from the earth an enormous daily tribute of gold can quite appreciate. Midsummer had not come, .before, having safely lodged their gold in the vaults of a banker, who, singular to relate, had never yet stopped payment, Gifford and Ike returned to their won- 'dering friends; and, having told as much of their adventures as seemed prudent and had been mutually agreed upon, invited them to emigrate to what they had christened "Lion's Dale" (a name, by the way, which I am glad to see the valley still re- tains), and, in their turn, to amass fortunes. By this time the scattered bands of Indians had begun to retreat as usual before the advancing pressure of swarming whites, and there was little -fear now of an interference or danger which, when Ike first made his'discovery, had been so effectual in making it an ex- clusive one. In the mean time, more settlers had gathered about the Bar, and there were two new flumes in the course of construction. Discoveries had been made in other places near by, although the gold yield at Armstrong's continued scanty; and the latter, be- ing very accessible and convenient to several lines of travel, was growing in importance as an entrepot, irrespeCtive of any value or poverty attributed to its diggings. A post-office was regular-  ly estabished there, and Uncle Seth was appointed postmaster. The buildings were improved, and the long coveted wooden roof over the principal structure took the place of the cotting" one. There was every indication that the place would become popu- lous, and the land, consequiently, valuable. Under these circumstance, it was resolved that Luke, Dick Railes, and Ike, together with the Doctor, should form a party for the new diggings, retaining the old home-as a base of sup- plies, and leaving Uncle Seth and the " women folks" to keep possession, ther6of; and this sensible arrangement ha'd just been carried into effect at the time Hugh Gifford sailed for New York. As for Ike, Hugh would willingly have taken him with himself, but Ike promptly rejected the proposal. He was very well as he was, he said; and certainly there did not appear to be any par-  ticular advantage in his removal to the Atlantic States. Hugh had, to be sure,an idea that the poor fellow's mental condition might possibly be improved by travel; or, perchance, by medical advice in the Old World if not in the New. But Dr. Landale thought he saw signs of improvement, which might be checked   THE QUEST FOE FORTUNE.       295 or reversed were Ike taken from his present haunts and pursuits, and this opinion was accepted as conclusive. Thus it was that Gifford sailed for home with his fortune, quite alone. He had his gold with him, but otherwise he was solitary. Long habit had reconciled him to the companionship of even the most illiterate and unintellectual of the people at the Bar. To separate, even firom poor Lion, he now found gave him a pain which he had rarely known in parting even from a human being. His thoughts ranged back over the many event- ful scenes they had all seen and braved together. He remembered withl vividness a hundred pictures of the Plains; Castle Arm- strong, with its quaint interior, the colors of the different cattle who drew it, the very clothes various members of the party wore. He recalled a score of different camp-fires where they had sat ndnd watched and smoked, and told stories and adventures, in the fitful light of the spluttering green wood as it blazed and sparkled on the gloom around. He thought of the first time he saw the friendly chief, Washashaco, as he came up to the brow of the slope and warned his white brethren of impending danger; of the confidence he had felt in the warrior from the outset, and how that confidence had never been shaken until late in the'long,  long day yvhen the little band fought so overwhelming an array of savages; when poor lTahum Pelter had fallen, as it were, in the very moment of safety and victory, and the swarthy chieftain, like av avenging fury, followed by his red troop of whooping demons, had bounded into their midst to turn the scale of battle. But from all these memories, and many more which were'akin to them, Gifford's thoughts always came back to fix upon one ob- ject-the green oasis in his dreary, dusty march of life-the music which had made tolerable the dull, monotonous clangor of commonplace sounds and vulgar voices-the poetry which, from childhood, he had dreamed of and yearned for, but never before in good faith believed to exist-to the memory of Marian. And, as often as he came back to this thought, he found another standing, as it were, by its side, and warning him, with an emphasis he could not soften, of the great need there was  that he should regard his own honor as well as Marian's memory, i and do nothing that should cloud either in his treatment of Virginia.    . He was rich now, and there was no obstacle to their happy  union; why then should he shudder at such a reflection? It  really seemed that the path of duty lay straight before him, and  that the path of duty should also be'that of happiness but, alas!  "  '            ^W   296        MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, it was not so. Loyal as Marian had ever been, she had most unwittingly, partly by the effect of continual contrast, partly by a certain way she had of suggesting analysis of character, led Huugh to a sharp and painful perception of the unlovely faults of Virginia's nature. At the same time, the latter had unfortunate- . ly been yielding more and more to the influences which tended to increase those faults, and the retrogression was only too obvi- ously reflected in her letters. On the passage home, then, Gifford, in a blurred and bewil- dered sort of way, had sketched out for himself a plan of oper- ations which were intended, as we have seen, to test the reality and the steadfastness of Virgina's affection. He determined to afford her every possible opportunity to hold him to his engage- ment-every possible incentive, save the single one of knowing his altered circumstances. If she would not adhere to his for- tunes as a poor man, Hugh thought he might fairly escape from the tie as a rich one. There was certainly no particular origi- nality about the idea; but it was eminently practical, since scarce- ly any one in the world could possibly betray him, and it also had the merit of extreme simplicity. Straightway, on his arrival, he commenced to reduce it to practice; and having thus wasted no time in attending to what he could not avoid regarding as an honorable obligation, he now thought, with a strange notion of having earned some compensation floating in his mind, that he had a right to try and find Marian. Hugh had no inclination to seek out any of his relations. None of them, as he well knew, would care a straw to see him unless he came with a fortified assurance that he was well to do in the world, and such information would be likely to defeat his plans, to say nothing of the fact that its being essential to a welcome, very naturally made him indifferent to those who would exact it. And yet, although his kinsmen were otherwise hard and base- minded men, in this particular respect they differed not from most New Englanders around them. It is inevitable that an ex- aggerated value should attgch to wealth where no other title or passport to reverence and consideration is acknowledged. The sordid tone which pervades much American society has its origin not in the fact that people are born more selfish and grasping there than elsewhere, but because they are taught from their youth up that gold is the only good, and find that democracy has done too much to establish the maxim., There is no way to reason this evil out of existence, any more than to make water run up hill, save by reversing political conditions or the laws of gravity. The systems of man are for ever imperfect, and it is by   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        297 no means certain 'that because there are evils in oligarchy a sweeping plutocracy is altogether free of them. One thing at least is certain, which is, that to dig their heads like ostriche into bushes of brag, and to diligently ostracize those who dare to tell them the truth, is not the way for my country- men to purge their system of its ills, and make what they would have a model worthy of universal imitation. A nation is in as bad a way as a man is, when it cannot endure to be told of its faults ; and because some people have exaggerated, or misrelpre- sented those faults in times past, is no reason why they should be stoutly maintained to bb virtues for all time to come. But having been abused for digression before now, as well as for unfair strict- ures on national manners, let me be wary and return to my hero. He turned his back, then, on Boston almost as soon as he showed his face there. The best society, mutual admiration or other, the guarded amusements, the secluded homes of the better ,classes where was breathed a strange atmosphere, compounded in equal portions the Puritan and the Sybarite, the hearty greeting of condcippuli, even at the neighbor Alma Mater he once had'loved-all these were forbidden joys to one who, like Gifford, had committed two capital sins : he had gone a-way from their midst, and he had come back poor. Rarely does Boston forgive the first crime ; the second, never. Hugh did, indeed, go to see his old friend and fellow student, John Chester; and John Chester proved an exceptionto the gen- eral rule, for he shook the wanderer warmly by the hand, and was glad to see him, notwithstanding be came back poor, and notwithstanding he himself had a Murder. Still, Hugh saw, or fancied he saw, something a little stiff and frightened in John's manner-something a little furtive and watchful, as if somebody might witness perchance this anomalous cordiality to one who had gone away and come back poor; something which seemed to indicate that such cordiality besides being " outred" and un- usual, had also a customary penalty attached, which John would like to evade.' Perhaps Hugh was mistaken; very reserved mlon are especially apt to notice little frigidities or acerbities of man- ner in others; but he could not help thinking that if his ostensi- ble poverty were to continue until John got two or three more Mrders, he would be less welcome even than he was at present. John heard the statement of Gifford's arrangement Tith his sister with a puzzled air, and seemed twice or thrice to be upon the point of saying something which again caution restrained. 13'   298        MARIAN ROO001; OR,  The truth was, John felt heartily ashamed of the air of meanness which appeared in the whole matter, and thought his friend badly treated ; but he did not quite like to say so. He feared Hugh was of too speculative and discursive a turn to prosper, and con- ceived that any incentive which was likely to combat or neutral- ize such a predisposition would have a good effect. I amafraid, too, that Boston was saturating John over-much with those views / of expediency and " getting ahead " in life, .which in his more callow years he had made bold to despise in his sagacious father. -It is a Iard thing to live always at Rome, and yet not feel and think, not less than do, even as the Romans. "What d'ye mean to do?" he asked,incidentally, before they parted. "Of course you have some plans for making money. What are they?" "To tell the truth, I have not made up my mind," prevari- cated Hugli. . "Time you had, I should think. Folks here are terribly hard on what they think an aimless or discursive Sort of life. You tried law in California?" "Io ; the country was overrun with lawyers. Besides, after all, you know, I was making a, living in the mines."  "Come now," said John, with interest, "could you make fifty dollars a week?" "Not all the time, perhaps ; during most of it, yes." "Could you make forty dollars a week the year round?" "I believe we averaged as well as that." "Thunder! What did you come away for?" "Why, John. H was rather weary of mining ; it wasn't so very congenial, you may suppose ; and there are other things to -think of in the world besides making money, you know, John." "Oh! ah! yes," admitted-John, doubtfully ; at least I used to think so. But youthful dreams are one thing and the busi- ness of life is another. We're all business men here, Gifford." "I suppose so; and each thinks only of what will advance his own business," said Hugh, with' some bitterness. "They are business men in Canaan, who only keep that eye open which looks towards profit; and this place is only a bigger Canaan. I was walking down School Street just now, and I saw a man ap- proaching whom my poor father's brain and industry made rich; for he made others rich if he did not make himself so. Well, this man's instinct or some gossiping tongue had taught him that I had not been over successful, I suppose; at any rate his eye of profit couldn't see me, and he crossed over and passed by on the other side."    THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        299 a'  C"Ah, you mean Scumble?" : "Yes." "Well, he has got on immensely of late years. He's uncom- monly smart, Scumble is. You're quite right, he's a first-rate business man."    Yes; even John Chester was infected by the atmosphere. he breathed. He might have substantially the same nature still, ; but it was so crusted over by the oxidization of the prevailing gold-worship that but little of its old true metal could be seen below. Gifford sighed as lie thought that even this one true friend, whose staunchness he had counted on, had become, if not alienated, at least somewhat cooled towards him. There are some places in the world whose absent ones are more wrong than those of any other spot beside; and Boston is not the least conspicuous of them. Hugh had not the least idea that he had committed any crime during his Pacific sojourn; but he was convinced that, had he done so, and the noise of it been bruited, the people he met could scarcely have regarded hiam with more coldness and suspicion. He could not make it out; at least he only partly saw the truth. He was not yet quite experienced enough to know that if his townsmen had been aware of the ex- istence of that gold heap of his, they would have roared them- selves hoarse with welcome-have strewn flowers in his path-- have chanted his praise firom the very house-tops-have converted his doleful visit into a gorgeous triumph. He guessed enough, however, to supply him with a plentiful stock of bitterness, and to rejoice when the old dome of the State House faded from his view, and he could shake the dust of Boston from his feet. It was agreed that John should write to Gifford, to a certain address in New York, if anything occurred at Canaan which would be interesting to relate; Hugh being, as he professed, unsettled as to whither he should bend his steps, but intending to arrange that all letters should safely follow wherever he might determine to go. With this understanding our hero repaired at once to New York, and betook himself to the task of discover- ing Marian. His means for performing this task were of the simplest; con- sisting, as they did, of nothing more than the name of Mr. Riv- ingstone's agent. To find him was only the work of an hour after arriving in the metropolis, but the information he could  ; afford was of the most meagre description. Miss Rooke had been met by Mr. Rivingstone on her arrival from San Franeisco; she had remained in town while he had gone South for a three   i months' tour; inthe mean time his sister had joined Miss Rooke,   '300         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, and the two had awaited his return. He came back in June, and the whole party had sailed directly' afterwards for Europe. Of their present address he knew nothing, and could only refer to a banker in London. With this knowledge Hugh was per- force content, and, indeed, any other would have been of little use, since he was resolved to get it for himself, and at closer quarters; nor was he long in putting, his resolution into force, for within a week he was again on shipboard, again breasting old ocean's billows; but this time in what was for him an un- tried direction, for he was leaving his native land behind him, and his prow was turned eastward. CHAPTER IV., "THE question is, Who can he be?" "Yes, mamma, and echo answers, 'Who " "He couldn't be, for example, an English nobleman in dis- guise?" "Not he. No man born at once rich and titled, ever has those premature lines-those souvenirs of anxiety in his face. The body may acquire ease, the bearing, grace, and no vestige remain of what they supersede-but not the countenance. The ink used there is indelible, and never washes out." ' You conceive then that he is " "Un nouveau ric'he? Quite so; but he may be a gentleman for all that." "A gentleman! I should think so, indeed.. Clinton would scarcely write as he did about a man who was not. And yet the puzzle is, that he writes precisely as if he knew nothing of Mr. Gifford's antecedents." "My brother is certainly never too ready to take people on trust. An American, abroad, too! It's very odd." ," You would say now," pursued the elder lady, who was doing something, with snowy fingers, to a maze of crimson silk, ".that he could not be a retired trader?" "Impossible, dear mamma. Consider the man's air-his manner of speaking. Besides-more crucial test-there's no crest emblazoned- on his carriage." "True, true. And the cmriage itself--quite a miracle of   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        301 plainness. No; I think you're right, Edith, But if not a suc- cessful merchant, it's clear he's no politician."- '"Heavens, no! Clinton would never have given letters to a politician; whatever his faults, my brother would never dream of introducing a politician into the family of the Parapets!" "Unless sinning through ignorance, perhaps " "Ignorance! surely their odious names are familiar enough. To be sure, we don't read the detestable newspapers, their organs, but the men do; and I'm confident either papa or Clinton would know if Mr. Gifford had been compromised in politics." They were absurdly alike-mother and daughter-with tall figures, delicate aquiline noses, brows exhibiting just a soupcon of the supercilious, irreproachable complexions, dainty hands and feet, and undeniably aristocratic bearings generally. There was not the difference which is legitimate between five-and-twenty and five-and-forty; not because the daughter looked old, but because the mother looked young'-two things which by com- mon consent are voted impossible in America, but which occa- sionally contrive to be true, notwithstanding. - It is very odd, by the way, how often exceptions will insist on crossing one's path to give the lie to accepted theories. Perhaps when a man has known many a skinny Englishwoman, and many a stout -American--many a Briton who didn't drink beer, and many a Yankee who didn't boast-many a Bull who was cosmopolite, and many a Jonathan who was not provincial-many a German who was airy and mercurial, and many a Frenchman who would not eat -fiogs; I say, when one can truly cite such an experi- ence, he may be permitted, perhaps, to disregard the general rule, and, like an ingenious lawyer, to insist on urging a numer- ous family of exceptions. At all events, these two ladies were of or among them. They were unimpeachably well dressed, and, beyond all cavil, they were well bred. They did not shriek like peacocks, nor load themselves with diamonds at their breakfast table. Their speech betrayed no nasal twang; they did not " conclude," IIcalculate," or " guess ;" they did not "admire" things to eat, call their ser- vants "helps," or commit any other kindred abomination. The worst that could be said of them was that, ignoring their own utility as shining lights-a grave remissness indeed in a com- munity most of whose members are for ever groping after standards and seldom finding them--they would insist on getting perpetually under bushels, so that the world declared that light there was none. "Politics and the Parapets," continued the younger lady,   802'        MARIAN ROOKE; US, philosophically, "are like oil and vinegar; they never mingle save at a great crisis, and only then on much persuasion. No such occasion exists now, as brother Clinton well knows."  "There remain the professions," said Mrs. Parapet, following the more particular thread of the discourse. "Our new acquaint- ance may be a lawyer, an officer, a physician, or even a clergy- man."  ';"Each and all incompatible with his movements. A man whom nobody, except Clinton, knows, comes into a fashionable square, buys a handsome house of brown stone, furnishes it in exquisite taste; sets up his carriage, is introduced by us into our set, goes to two. or three parties, makes the proper calls, appears half a dozen times at the opera, and then when every- one expects him to settle quietly in his new home, and perhaps set about selecting its mistress, he starts off like a madman or an express agent, and is heard of one week at Niagara, the next at St Louis, the next at New Orleans, the fourth at Havana, the fifth is at home again, and on papa calling at the beginning of the sixth he is told that Mr. Gifford left for Montreal the night before. These are eccentricities hardly consistent with the pur- suit of a profession. . Besides, Clinton met him travelling quite in a similar way; he seems to have frisked through Europe very much in the same odd fashion he adopts here." "Perhaps," observed Mrs. Parapet, hunting vaguely about for a suggestion, "perhaps he is the agent for some great European company." "*'No," replied her daughter, decisively, "there is not a trace of anything commercial about him." "The secret emissary of some foreign government, perhaps," again hazarded the mother, ingeniously. "There is something reserved and thoughtful in his manner; but then, you know, he said- he had only been in Europe for a year. Besides, he's,too young for a post of that sort." "An author, possibly." "An author with a carriage in this country ." said Edith, scorn- fully. c"Not in our generation, I fear.. And who ever heard of any scribbling Gifford? There has been none such since the Reviewer." "Well, my love, we are simply reduced to consider him a well educated and rather clever young man, to whom somebody has been good enough to leave a fortune. We are on sure ground here, and if the foothold is narrow it is certain to be safe." "Ah, mamma, but that's just it. Clinton wrote me that his firiend, although in general very uncommunicative about his   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        303 former life, had yet told him that his family were poor-only able to educate him by making sacrifices-and that he had not a relative or connection on earth who would serve him to the ex- tent of a dollar, or whose help he would not despise if it were offered." "In that case, dear Edith, I confess myself completely at a loss, and our mysterious acquaintance may be the Wandering Jew for aught I can surmise to the contrary." "He may have done something somewhere," said Miss Para- pet, thoughtfully, "I to get all this money; but your clever rascals always have something flashy-something you are called on to  illustrate with. notes of admiration--about them; and he has absolutely nothing of the kind." "So that you give up the enigma, Edith, my love, with all your cleverness, and confess yourself nonplussed as well as mamma?" It was rather hard to make Gifford out. Not but that there  - were plenty of gold-laden Californians in New York as well as he; but they were mostly of the tinker and tailor class, who made no secret of their wealth, or the mode of its acquisition; and whose origin and calibre it required no confidence on their  part to explain. They were also well known to each other, so that, if any particular tongue were silent, all the rest wagged sufficiently to make its reticent master's affairs no mystery. As we have seen, Gifford was an exception to this rule. There was no 'longshoreman, cab-driver, jackltar, tinker or tailor, faro- S banker, or wholesale swindler among the begemmed and gor- geous crew at the Cosmopolitan Hotel, who could tell whence Gifford's resources were drawn, even if any of them might per- chance have known his face. Even if that prince of bold oper- ,ators, the redoubted Panghurn, himself had turned up, he could only have explained howHugh had lost a small fortune-not how he had found a large one. Indeed there were none living   i excepting Ike and Lion, both of whom were equally unlikely to appear in Parapetian society, who could give the smallest light on the subject. Thus that rara avis anywhere, the spectacle of a 7 man who, having come suddeily into the possession of money, has - yet some distant notion of how to spend it, was not likely to be I elucidated so far as the history of Gifford was concerned, unless he himself chose to tell his own story. -"He's certainly handsome," remarked Mrs.,Parapet as a pen- dant to a knot in her silken mystery.              H "I call him distinguished looking rather than handsome;    g scarcely tall enough to be a fine man, but with a great number of il:   good points. No :man without decent blood in his veins has precisely those points-in America, or out of it." ; There are a great many eligible girls just out," proceeded the mamma; " he could hardly have come at a more promising season. Of course none of the old families could think of a man so utterly unknown. But there are plenty in the next grade-- the ball and dinner-palty set-who are all before him where to choose. There is Clara Vyse, the great counsellor's daugh- ter--"   - ( Dear mamma, she's so dreadfully common! and she bridles and squeaks like a-peacock!" "There's Julia Cranstoun, with a nice fortune and----" "The face of a cook, and the manners of a nursery govern- ess." ' Isabel Pinckney, I'm sure, is a very good match." ; A scrawny creature like that, half deaf, and at least six-and- thirty!" "And Emily Bishop has both beauty and money." "' An incorrigible Yankee, who snivels like Mawworm, and fills the room with an atmosphere of pork-and-beans and pump- kin pie!" ' My dear Edith!" "I beg your pardon, mamma, I'm sure, for disparaging your favorites, but you really seem to forget that Mr. Gifford is not only a man of keen perception, but also one who is uncommonly fastidious, and the specimens you select are curiously obnoxious to criticism." Mrs. Parapet raised her eyes for an instant, and then dropped them again upon her crimson silk; she hdd seen the faintest of flushes on her daughter's aristocratic cheek; rather an odd thing, she thought, for a young lady whose fashionable imperturbability was carried, in general, almost to excess. "The old families are out of the question," she repeated, half interrogatively, by way of experiment. "Distinctly!" answered Edith, with emphasis. "But there are some young women not altogether hideous, unpresentable, and passees among the new. And, since Mr. Gifford is in a man- rmer consigned to us, we may fairly wish him success in the least objectionable category." "Cihacun a son go'At. The- taste of men and women in such matters I have commonly found to be at variance. Your own would be thought uninmpeachable, my love, in every respect save that of female charms; and even in those, Mr. Gifford and your-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        305 self may agree. Should he return in time for the Egremont Ball, the point may be fairly put to the test." "We go to the Egremonts, then?" I think, upon the whole, yes. It doesn't involve visiting, ; you know, and is perfectly understood as' not to be taken advan- tage of. To be sure they can never be of our set by any possi- bility, so the risk is but slight. Their balls are showy, fashion- able, and amusing, if not of the best ton; and! if one meets a rather promiscuous assemblage, 'tis only once a year, and you never know them again. Your papa thinks it well to patronize the Egremonts."          . "To this extent-no more?" "Precisely. And, as I observed, Mr. Gifford may, if he re- turns in time, give you the opportunity of comparing notes with him on the particular question at issue. The Egremonts always muster pretty girls in shoals." "The daughters of Israel largely included." "Que voulez vous? A man who has a people and a vocation cannot put both to the wall' at his seasons of festivity. Every- thing considered, they are most inoffensive, and so long as they continue as unobtrusive as they have hitherto been, Ifor one will  help them out once a year with all the pleasure imaginable." This conversation took place in a very tasteful boudoir in a very roomy mansion in the most exclusive, although not the most modern, fashionable quarter of New York. The mansion was not built of pretentious brown strone, now so generally used to make showy facades, and too often facades only, for the houses of the new rich in that remarkable city, but of solid, sombre old gray granite, and dingy red bricks. It was not propped on either side by a companion precisely like itself, as from a sometimes not unreasonable precaution lest it should fall, but stood in its own grounds, which were large enough to contain a whole block of such parvenu fabrics, and was shaded by vast elms, which threw their protecting arms far above even its own lofty gables. This was the town-house of the Parapets, and had been such for many a year before any who now bore the name had seen the light. Here they came regularly at the last of October, and- remained until the following first of June. The interval was passed at a still roomier and still older, and still more patrician-looking house on the Hudson, nejr Haverstraw ; the exceptions to either so- journ being when any of the family were in Europe, or saw fit, at cautious periods, to show themselves for a few days at New- port or Saratoga.                         I Enough has been said in the preceding colloquy to describe at  i   306     '    MARIAN ROOKE; OR, least a part of Hugh Gifford's career during the fnist twelvemonth of his newly-gained riches. He had passed a year in Europe, had returned to his native country, had purchased and furnished a house in New York, and set up an establishment, with the ap- parent design of settling regularly in that metropolis ; had no sooner made these arrangements than he had dashed off on a swift tour through the American States, had returned, and at the present time had once more left his new home and betaken him- self to Canada. We shall have occasion anon to go further than to merely trace the outline of these erratic movements, by filling in their explan- atory incentives and hoped-for objects; but before doing so it may not be amiss to describe the origin of our hero's association with the polite society of the great island city, which will neces- sarily involve some further brief description of the family of the Parapets. (CRFAPTEIR V. THERE has always been a great deal of doubt in the outer, more especially in the European world, as to the existence in America of the family of the Parapets. Now it is one among the many objects of this veritable history to set. that doubt en- tirely at rest. That the Parapets do positively exist I most un- hesitatingly pledge myself; and beg leave further to record the conviction' that the stress of events would very speedily have es- tablished the fact of their existence, even had my history failed to do so. Nevertheless, such personal testimony as I am ableto afford will not, I trust, be regarded as supererogatory, since any- thingwhich throws light upon so. important and so much mooted a point may be presumed to .have its uses. In flying back over the continent from the marvellous land of gold-and I may mention, passim, that I so flew very soon after Hugh Gifford became a rich man-just as the sun is constrained to gild first the highest peaks, I feel impelled to enlighten the lreader by touching upon the -Parapets-a simile wIich may or may not be deemed to make up in appositeness what it lacks in modesty, but which will be warmly appreciated by that family themselves, however it may miss endorsement from the remain- der- of mankind.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         307 To begin, then, after the order indicated, it is necessary to il- lumine the highest pinnacle in the person of the head of tilhe house ; it is necessary to give some brief account of Mr. Dyce Parapet. This gentlemen was-arid. refusing to take note of time, still apparently is-a comely, well-preserved, wholesome, benevolent, and regular individual of sixty ; with smooth white hair, smooth white hands, a clear skin, a starchy manner, and a good digestion. There were a great number of Mr. Dyce Para- pets before 'the present one, going back for many a year before the Revolution; and they were physically the pictures of their living representative, except it may be they were a trifle stouter and taller. But after going back for a few generations you would find other than physical differences between them. You would find that they did not in those days think it well to shrink into their shells like oysters to avoid the rough contact of the world without; did not think themselves in the exceptionaliposition of owing no duty whatever to their fellow beings in general, or to their countrymen in particular ; in a word, there was no doubt in their time as to whether or no the Dyce Parapets really existed; and this fact is suggestive of the most-important divergence be- tween the family of yesterday and the family of to-day. The Mr. Parapet of to-day had never been in trade, had nev- er been in any profession, had never been in the legislature, either local or national ;-in brief, had never been in anything ex- cepting the bosom of his family, and such limited and highly exclusive social circles as, with cautiously adapted radii, swept within the probability of noise or publicity. - These circles were constituted of people of similar aptitudes for doing nothing, and  i not being heard of; and, collectively speaking, they were re- markably successful in carrying out their tastes. Hence, there     is the same apocryphal glamour thrown over them by society at large as enshrouds the Parapets; and as they are not much   - more accessible to strangers than to their own country folk, many an European tourist, after thoroughly travelling over, and completely understanding everything else in America in the space of six months, has yet departed with an unhappy persuasion that these families were, like the Parapets, altogether mythical, and not t to be accepted by then intelligent observer as corporeal entities. This was a general effect, highly pleasing and satisfactory to the families; and so far as some of the tourists themselves are con-   J cerned, I confess that its production strikes me as by no means   i an unmixed evil, much as I may deprecate it in a general way.    j In suggesting indolence as a prevalent characteristic of the    I class whereof the Parapets were a type, I only intend to convey   -, ^      '         -I   308         MARIAN EOOKE; OR, that they eschewed effort, as connected with the public service or in the channel of regular pursuits or professions; but they were by no means indolent in respect of personal accomplish- ments or the acquisition of knowldge. Mr. Dyce Parapet him. self was a very well read as well as a very well bred man. He had been substantially grounded in his youth in classic and po- lite letters, and the family had always preserved and augmented an uncommonly fine library, to the advantages of which he was ) far from insensible. He took pleasure at sixty in Homer and the dramatists, and made Latin verses not to be despised. tie read with txdeviating regularity all the best of the foreign reviews, and the most scholarly books which money could bring from the teeming press of Europe. He was well versed in history and political economy, and nothing emanated firom the great mods ern lights in either field that he did not straightway grapple and draw knowledge from it. But all these tastes and acquirements were quite valueless to the community in which he lived. Mr. Parapet had no more idea of the significancy lying in the phys- ical fact that all bodies which receive light give light, than he had of making an auto-da-fe of himself for the general good of the community. If he cherished any particular theory touching the object of his existence, it resolved itself into a sort of negative assumption that there was no niche, no particular sphere of use- fulness, open to him or such as him in his country as it now was;, with which idea I have nothing to do, fulther than to record ' that it was entertained, and furnished an excuse, if any there was, for the aimless, drone-like, useless life which Mr. Parapet and- his compeers lived. Mr. Parapet was very rich. When people have large estates, which for years have been rising in value, and on which they pay next to no taxes, they are very apt to become so. He had always been prudent, like most of his predecessors; and, a1- though by no means illiberal in his expenditure, and having an expensive family, his property had steadily increased until he was perhaps one of the richest landowners in the State. But 'for the untaxed protection afforded by that State he never &deam- ed of making any return; and if his attention had been forcibly directed to the subject, he would doubtless have urged that such contributions as-were made to the public revenue, in the way of customs duties on the articles consumed by his family, were an adequate requital for the security conferred. And in justice it may be acknowledged, that Mrs. Parapet and Miss Parapet were unconscious patriots in the way of French millinery to an extent that might partially justify the plea.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        309 Clinton, the only son and heir of this august house, having passed his four years at Harvard University, had been sent, as was customary with all young Parapets, to make the tour of Europe, and incidentally it was supposed that he would extend the range of his intellectual vision, and give the rounding touches to his scholarship at a venerable seat of learning in Germany. It was. at Gottingen in truth that Hugh Gifford met this young scion, about a twelvemonth after the strange fortune that brought our hero wealth. Americans, like Englishmen, often make i friends of each other abroad, when hardly any thing short of physical torture would induce them to speak at home. Hugh was struck by the easy bearing and gentlemanly manners of his countryman, so different from many among whom his own youth had been passed, and took more pains than he was wont to give 'himself on such a score, to cultivate Clinton's society. After- wards they made a trip to Paris, and saw much of the glittering capital in company. Three or four years' seniority, and more than those years implied a certain rough knowledge of the world, put Hugh in something of the position of a mentor, and he. often found .himself half unconsciously giving forth the same sort of schooling he himself had received from softer lips in the wilds of the West. These utterances chiefly took the form of speculation and advice as to future prospects. "You have no fancy for the bar??' he asked, at an early stage of their acquaintance. "None; or at least, what little I have is curbed by the knowl- edge that practice at it is quite out of the question." "Of course it's very difficult to work up; I've found that E out." "I don't mean that. I could, of course, afford to wait. But there are other and stronger objections." "You think it too dry "  "Oh no; I could stand that. But what man who has a name he feels bound to respect can enter a profession where the chief prizes are accorded to such men as now hold them at New York? To be sure, there are people of high character and attainments in it there, no' doubt as high as any elsewhere, but they are ex- ceptions; the general tone is such that success doesn't imply the i possession of qualities one would wish to have the reputation of; that's all."  "It is better at Boston."     .                "Oh, I dare say; everything's better at Boston; and yet you people who come away never want to g6t back to it!"   310        MAMAN -ROIKE; OR, ( That is for other reasons; in my case at least. But if the bar won't answer, I suppose you'll go into politics?" 4' My dear fellow! what can you be thinking of? Go into ' ongress, or the Assembly, to sit with. McSwyne; to deliberate with Gagger, O'Slasher, and Bowie; to pair off with an Irish grog-seller, or be put on committee with a lottery sharper! Why, the race- of Parapets would rise in their graves and pro- rogue the house! No; no political life for me.' "But surely people of your name have sat in the national councils? And, granting the evils you imply, the leaven to. rectify them must come from above, not from below." 'Oh yes, there have been Parapets in Congress, and in the cabinet too, for that matter. But look, I pray you, at the com- pany they kept; look at the names, sixty, fifty, even five-and- twenty years ago, and note -the difference As to the leaven none is required. The people are satisfied, and if not they have full power to be so. They can do without the Parapets, the Parapets can do without them. Voila tout/" ' Ah, taxation is low now, and do what they may they cannot spur you into rebellion; but were a great war to come, you will find the necessity for being heard and represented, unless you propose to submit to spoliation. Have you ever thought of the army?" "Ay, truly;: but there's nobody to fight. You see, there's nothing on earth to do in America, but for those who have money to keep it, and for those who haven't to make it. And it's lucky that, seeing there are so many ways to make it, the lat- ter class are saved the temptation to rob the former. As for the army, cui bono? You are sent into the swamps of Florida, or to the extremity of the western frontier, to catch fever and ague, and pick off the poor devils of red-skins. No great incentive in that, and yet it's all our officers can do." 'Not very inviting, I grant. Still there must surely be some fields of usefulness ; perhaps you've thought of turning author?" "I doubt my ability. But were it indisputable, I don't see how it could be put to much use. It is too unremittingly labori- ous, too open to the criticism of fools, too uncertain. in its results; in a word, its toils and rewards are too disproportionate to offer attractions for me. I've too little of the sacred fire which makes men ignore the balance or despise it, and should always be measuring profit and loss." "Well, then, after all, what do you mean to do? Since the bar and the forum are too ignoble, the field too inactive or in- -  ,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       3" glorious, and the pen too unprofitable,' if you will allow me to ask, what are you to do?v  "Do? Ah, well, what my grandfather and father have done bfoere me, and succeeded so admirably in doing--Nothing.  It is a pursuit we have learned to accept as a sort of political necessity; we have been taught that in a successful republic, fi'om the inevitable nature of things, there is Nothing to Do for the Parapets."9 Now Gifford had been rather bitterly of opinion that there ,was not much to be done by a poor gentleman in his country, but that there should be no niche, not even an ornamental one, for a rich gentleman, he felt bound to combat. . So he set to work with something very like zeal to persuade the young aris- tocrat that it was his duty to strive for the common weal, albeit such labors might not advance his own and that those who were placed by fortune above the necessity of toiling for bread, were clearly bound to employ their powers for the benefit of those who were under it. 'He pointed out that in a new country, where the absence of shackling conventionalities and time- honored formulas enabled new experiments to be safely made in, the science of human development, and the art of human hap- piness, it was a noble privilege to assist and to guide such experi- ments to their benevolent conclusions and fruition. No poor man could devote himself to such humane, pursuits with a pros- pect of achieving any considerable results. But'any of inde- pendent means might surely do so, and thus ghin the gratitude of his species, and the blessings of his own conscience. Thus argued Hugh, with earnestness and no little eloquence. But his disciple was too substantially grounded in what might be termed the Parapetian Philosophy, to be more than tempo- rarily affected by such suggestions. The Parapets had served their country very faithfully, so long as there was any need, but now there really was none. The people had good schools, high wages, cheap provisions, universal suffrage, and what could the Parapets give them more? Nothing whatever had the Parapets kept to themselves except their money and their lands, which they really couldn't distribute' unless they turned Socialists at i once, which was not in their way. What could the masses-the foundations--want that the Parapets had not'resigned to them? The press was theirs, the legislature was -theirs, the pulpit was j theirs, the bar was theirs, even the arrangements on the lines of - travel had been made exclusively theirs. The Parapets had even paid that regard to public opinion as to hide themselves away from the public eye, that the public might not be offended   %312        MkRIAN 'ROOKE; OR, by the spectacle of greater wealth or refinement than the public, in a general sense, possessed. Clinton didn't *really know what they could do more, unless it might be to commit suicide, en masse, and leave their property for public distribution, and their membry to public gratitude; in which case each would last about the same time, so that it would be of no permanent service. In a word, there was nothing to argue, nothing to fight, nothing to teach, nothing to write, nothing from any possible point of yiew for a Parapet--but to be a Parapet, and do nothing. "CAnd after all," remarked their youthful representative, ig what a pretty fellow you are for a mentor! Here have you been-by your own confession-flying about Europe like a bil- liard-ball for a whole year-first on one side, then on the other -one week in Vienna, the next in Madrid ; yesterday in Regent Street, to-day lounging in the Boulevard des Italiens, and for what? You haven't even the excuse of study, such as I have at Gottingen; you're a time-killer, pure and simple, arid you re- proach me for wasting it!" ' Unjust," quoth Hugh, " although very natural. Time is no enemy of mine; at least I have not intentionally ill-used it. It's not my fault that I have perforce either killed or wasted "Ah,: you mean you have had an object?" "'Unquestionably." 'c Which is a secret, of course?" "For the moment only. I'll tell it you willingly when it is accomplished; that is," he added, with a heavy sigh, "if it ever is accomplished." "Tut!" said young Parapet, carelessly, "everything in this life is sure to be accomplished if we but stick to it long enough." A strange sentiment friom a Parapet-from the scion of a family, no member of which, within the memory of man, had had any aim. or object to accomplish, whatever: yet it did not strike Hugh as incongruous. There are men who, without ever doing anything at all, give you the idea that they could do every-: thing in the world if they liked; and the Parapets were always of the class. Neither was the lack of tenacity a weakness in Gifford's character. He had blood in his veins Wvhich led him to an in- stinctive conviction that what he willed to do, he had strength to compass. It was not through want of resolution, and assuredly not through want of industry, that for so many months he had failed in the chief thing, to effect which he had visited Europe. Truly surprising is it how enterprises will miscarry from what   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       313 are apparently the simplest causes. Nothing, for example, appears easier in these days of newspapers and telegrams than to find any particular person whom you know to be travelling openly and freely about the Continent. It would seem that with a little trouble-a few inquiries, two or three lines in the Times perhaps-you can discover the object. of your search. Yet I have known devices and experiments to be exhausted, to which these are as nothing, and they have absolutely and unaccount- ably failed. Hugh could not exactly advertise Marian in the Times, but there was scarcely any other conceivable expedient to which he  did not resort, and which did not ignominiously fail, during his year in Europe. The London banker he had easily found directly after his arrival; but he could furnish no more in the way of details than could Mr. Rivingstone's agent at New York. The party were on the Continent, he said; they had circular notes; he did not know when they would return; would, with pleasure, take charge of any letters, but had no address to which he could forward them, and really did not know when they might be expected to reach the hands for which they were in- tended. With this scanty intelligence Hugh left England at once, re- serving for the future his intended tour through the country which from childhood had more deeply interested him than any other. But in vain had he visited, in rapid succession, the chief cities of France, Italy, Germany, and Spain; no trace could be discovered of the Rivingstones or of Marian. " Did you ever hear of Mahomet and the mountain?" queried Clinton, as they sat smoking one placid May evening in his apartment in the Rue de Rivoli. The dusk was just coming on, and; hazier and hazier grew the distant view of the Arc de Triomphe. Whatever Gifford was thinking of-whether of his lost love or the Barriere de l'Etoile-it is certain the question had to -be repeated before it was understood and answered. "Well, and what then?" "Only you seem to have been scampering about trying to get at something you have never reached; and it struck me that if you remained stationary--in one place-the something might come to you." AhM! "Of course it requires more patience and all that. But then it saves a deal of trouble." Yes." "Suppose now you were to settle youself down here in this "   314         MARIAN ROOKE  OR, very hotel. Sooner or later all the world comes to Paris. Everyone who comes to Paris passes through the Rue de Pivoli. Sit at this same window with an opera glass, therefore, and sooner or later the mountain will come to you. Q. E. D." Clearly demonstrated, certainly." "My dear fellow, it's infallible. What you have done hitherto has been, notwithstanding your disclaimer, sheer waste of time. I'll wager that in a quarter of the space from this coigne of van- tage you'll succeed." "At all events it is worth the trial," half mused Gifford. "Worth the trial! To be sure it is; and as I never invented anything before in my life, I'm anxious to see this put to the test. You'll stay here then?" Hugh reflected. He must, at all events, remain abroad for a year. It was quite necessary to do so, for in America he would constantly incur the risk of a miscarriage in his plan for concealing the change in his fortunes from Virginia; that is, unless he were to conceal himself somewhere and adopt the ex- pedient of an incognito, neither of which he desired to do. On his return he proposed to take the position which his wealth might allow him to hold, and to carry out projects dim and shadowy as yet in detail, but not the less resolved upon in their general outline. He might as well remain at Paris for a time as elsewhere. "I will," he replied at length, " at least for the present, or until I see good reason for flight. And although I've great doubts of the success of your scheme, yet should it turn out luckily, you shall not be begrudged the fullest credit." There followed a week of Parisian gayety; not, it may be said, of dissoluteness, for it was a marked bond of sympathy between them that neither of the young men was easily fascinated by the more vulgar pleasures. That your friend is Diogenes may be no great attraction ; but it is' often the reverse of one if he be an Alcibiades. Cada oveja con su parega, saith the 'old Spanish : proverb, and the birds of a feather usually flock together in Paris ' as freely as anywhere else, to say the least. One morning-there was a great deal of trumpeting and tramp- ling of hoofs in the great street below, and Hugh looking forth saw what appeared to be a cortege of Chasseurs. What they es- corted had preceded the detachment now in view, which was ev- idently bringing up the rear. Behind them again was a closely packed crowd of vehicles, which had been impeded by the pro- cession, and so accumulated together. Toward these carriages, idly following Clinton's advice, our   I        '  TTHE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.   3o5 315 hero directed his opera glass. He looked long and earnestly and although the instrument hid his eyes, his companion, lolling in an arm-chair close by, had no difficulty in seeing a great change come over the expression of Htugh's face. By Jo ve"  cried 'Mr. Parapet, "the mountain has come to Mahomet!' It had not. But if such a physical phenomenon had presented in good earnest-certainly if he had seen what the metaphor was intended to, illustrateI-Hugh's face would not have expressed more interest and surprise ; for he saw in the showiest cabriolet which adorned the gaudy throng, with a countenance fraught with cunning, and flushed with gratified vanity, the prosperous owner of the factory at Persepolis and the variety store of Canaan; while by his side, radiant in the delicate frippery of a French bonnet, gorgeous in the crumpling rotundities of a won- derful moite antique, sat the golden-haired idol of Hugh Gifford's youthful imagination-Virginia Chester. CHAPTER   VI. HOSE most deeply skilled-in the mysteries of the human m- telligence, tell us that actions ale rarely undertaken at the stim- ulus of a single motive ; that there are commonly one or more besides the ostensible one, which help to strengthen the aim and buttress the resolution. True it is, that if we carefully examine our experience, whether in the colossal affairs of national, or the petty ones of individual life, we find an almost invariable diver- sity of opinion existing among mankind as to the incentives "which have dictated actions; an evidence which is reasonably conclusive in establishing that those incentives have been of a mixed and complicated character.  Without pausing to do more than sfiggest a theory so open to common investigation, I may say that Ifugh Gifford's course gen- erally illustrated its inference. 'He came to Europe at the insti- gation of more motives than one, and he left it for at least as many. A few days before seeing Virginia, as narrated in the last chapter, he had written to Mr. Rivingstone's banker to ask if he could yet afford any information as to the whereabouts of that gentleman. This same evening there came two letters. The first, from the banker, was the briefest, and to the effect that M'.   316         MARIAN ROOKE  OR, Rivingstone and party had sailed for New York three weeks be- fore. The second was from John Chester, having been for- warded from Hugh's address at the same city, and contained an account of the nuptials of his sister with Mr. Alphonso Gaycow. "' I feel sure," wrote John, after a blunt' statement of the lead- ing facts he had to communicate, "that your regard for Virginia is such, as not to allow a natural pain at this event to prevent your rejoicing at her prospects of a comfortable and assured future. G. has very handsomely cleared the mortgage on father's si farm, so that the old gentleman can now go on swimmingly.,  The house has been repainted from top to bottom, and the new one for the married pair is quite the envy of Canaan. The gro- cery business is really a very good one, and G: is a remarkably smart man. He is much respected in Boston, where he often comes to make purchases. I suppose you have about given up the idea of ever settling here; and people do get rather set and different when they stay away long. Perhaps if you came back, and it was perfectly understood you returned with the intention of staying for good, many who are a little prejudiced might be induced to modify. I am doing well, and have bought a likely piece of woodland at Canaan Centre for twenty-seven dollars, sixty-two and a half cents ($27 621) an acre, being sure to rise. The heavy men at the bar seem disposed to give me a chance, being, as they say, wide-awake, and always on hand. Virginia and her husband take a bridal tour for a month or two in Europe. I write as I promised, and suppose that this is what you meant me to advise you of when you asked me to do so, and would be glad if it were of a more agreeable character to yourself. I can't help thinking, if you had stayed in Boston, things would have been different. Some of our old friends at Cambridge inquire about you occasionally; but they clearly think it unfortunate that you should have stayed away so long, unless it was to come back under different circumstances, &c., &c. Wishing you all the prosperity that can be had out of Boston, I am yours, &c., JOHN CHESTER." We have now seen that Hugh had reasons enough to take him back to America, if not to Boston. Whether he had be- haved well or ill in essaying his experiment with Virginia, he had essayed it; and it would be idle to deny that the result was gratifying to him. Not all gratification truly; for there are not many more men than women in the world who are pleased to know that, whatever the circumstances, another has been prefer- red to themselves. But this trifling drawhack was as nothing to   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        317 the great swell of joy with which he anticipated the possibility of a union with Marian. Love for, nay, almost worship of Marian, had grown to be the strongest passion Gifford had ever experienced. It was a pas-  sion which the lapse of time, the obstacles of circumstances, the accidents which prevented their meeting, only made the stronger. There are plenty of people whom such things will cool and deter, for all the dreams of poets and the theories of rhapsodists ; prob-  ably the majority; but Gifford was not among them. If Vir-  ginia, believing him poor, had not wavered in her constancy-- had still adhered to her engagement-I think Hugh would have . married her, everything to the contrary notwithstanding; buthe was now prepared to follow Marian to the ends of the earth, and if he could, to win her there. So, with letters to the Parapets, which Clinton insisted on his taking, a year of European experience, and a heart full of hopes,. doubts, and divers jostling schemes of ambition, back came Hugh from the Old World to the New; where, in the first weeks of his arrivals he disported himself as has already been described. But, in a certain respect, he was no more fortunate on one side the ocean than on the other, for he could not find Marian. His purchase of a house in the great city was prompted by a   Rl mingling of two purposes.  If he was to be useful in any man- ner to his country, he first must become a resident of it. A local ,habitation was an indispensable prerequisite to a name. But he  qloved also to think he was making a home which might become  Marian's ; perhaps as strong a motive as the patriotic one. Fi- nally, Mr. Parapet, Sen., a shrewd judge in such matters, had  warmly recommended him to buy the property, if only as an in- vestment, upon the very sensible ground that he was quite sure   : to double his money in from five to seven years by its sale, should he determine not to retain it as a permanent residence.      ; Mr. Parapet introduced him, with much circumspection and pomp, to several elderly gentleman, all starchy, well bred, and' in a high state of preservation, and all bearing names conveying that general suggestion of representing apocryphal families which^ his own did. And these gentlemen, after successively and reg-    ; ularly mistaking Hugh for an Englishman, treated him with great  " courtesy, invited him to dinner, and introduced him to their va-   rious unexceptional wives and highly-accomplished daughters.    :i The young men were, generally speaking, either travelling like    Clinton Parapet, studying at some university, or otherwise absent  from the family hearth. There was nothing for them to do there, no interest for them in local or national politics, no temptation to by 't ,    .t-t! ^a!;rm   professional exertion of any kind, too much money to make la- bor of any sort obligatory; so for the most part they followed the Parapetian plan and did nothing; preferring as a rule to do it somewhere else, however, than under the paternal roof. It was certainly a great advantage to Hugh Gifford to be launched, in a social sense, by the Parapets. Their endorsement was highly valuable, for the reason that although they had little in common with the classes who did Anything, yet the latter were accustomed to accept their imprint with the greatest reverence, and to regard their judgments as without appeal. With such an endorsement, the neophyte could wander at will through all the various chambers and halls of the edifice, descending until he ar rived at the very foundations; and although the lower he went, the less the occupants knew of the Parapets, and the more dim and shadowy they appeared, there were no strata where-not- withstanding some incredulity, and here and there a weak at- tempt at ridicule--they were not looked up to, and their altitude acknowledged with more or less of awe. The worst of it was, so far as social improvement is concerned-so far as they might have been valuable as standards in that respect if not in any other-that the Parapets held themselves so high that they could only be clearly seen by those upon their own level, and so envel- oped themselves in exclusive clouds that they became almost as useless socially as they were politically. In this exalted atmosphere, Hugh saw and heard a great deal that was, without doubt, vastly interesting and edifying. He heard clever talk about books, pictures, statues; about philoso- phy, history, and natural science; appreciative discussions of new inventions, of achievements in architecture and engineering; of the progress that was making in the useful arts of shipbuild- ing, telegraphing, meteorology; of jurisprudence, and the mod- ern theories in trade and political economy; and, finally, of the public affairs of nearly every country in the world-excepting his own. Our hero was not so minutely versed in the workings of the system under which' he had been born and bred as not to be sur- prised at the prevalence of this omission. He thought it curious if by chance he made a remark about affairs at Washington, that it should be received either in silence or with something like well-bred contempt. He could not perceive why the domestic politics of Cochin China or Timbuctoo should be so interesting and appropriate as subjects for conversation, while those of the United States were clearly, and, to say the least, mauvais ton. It was truly remarkable, that, in so great and growipg a community, '   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         319 the wealthiest citizens who had most leisure to serve it, and the best educated who had most ability, should, voluntarily or other- wise not only take no part in its concerns, but positively avoid their discussion. Happily it was Gifford's privilege to fall in with a gentleman who was both able and willing to give, him some enlightenment. Indeed, it would have been hard to find any one more competent to instruct on cognate subjects than Mr. Eldon Clyde; and although that gentleman was too polite to refer to. them in Para- petian circles, he hesitated not in more mundane spheres to im- part the light that was in him. "Tell me," said this authority, on hearing a statement of Hugh's difficulty, " why do you send to the bank, when they are due, to draw your dividends?" Hugh did not think the question was put to elecit a reply, and was silent. "Why," pursued Mr. Clyde, "'when the bell sounds, do you go to get your dinner? Why do you put on thin clothes when it is hot or thick ones when it is cold? Why, when your strong box is empty, do you leave it unguarded? and when it is full, fasten it with locks and bolts? Why do you refuse to cross the street to get something you don't value, while you go milesvfor something you do?" "Because," responded Gifford seeing that the truisms halted for a general reply, "I suppose it is to my interest to do so." "Precisely," said Mr. Clyde.; "and when it is to the interest of these people to busy themselves with national affairs they'll do it, and not until then."       i "But patriotism  " "A dream. So far as public service is concerned in ordinary times, 'the baseless fabric of a vision.' You don't get the best goods in a state without paying the best price for them, and why should you get the best talents?" "Members of the English Parliament are unpaid, and so are not our Congressmen." "Ah, but note the distinction. The one is elevatedby the suf- fiage of the most, the other by that of the least, cultivated por- tion of the community-a difference which is all in all in mak- ing the seats covetable to the members of either-and the event in both cases demonstrates the truth of the theory. The Para- pets don't -care a straw for mileage, but there is nothing in the shape of dignity or association which are given with it which, they do care for." "But the inference is that our system is so firamed as absolutely   ;5Om        MARIAN ROOKIE; OR, to dissuade the most capable from serving under it ; to deter the 'men who could do the country most good from aiding it at all." "There is no escape from such an inference, for it is an un- deniably true one. I don't think the men in question free from blame; they should bestir themselves more in despite of obsta- cles, or rather of non-incentives, and so they probably would in case of any great need-just because the need would create the incentives. But men are men ; and the country being, on the whole, so prosperous, the defects in machinery pass unheeded, not because they don't exist, but because there is no strain on those particular parts. The principle, nevertheless, which ex- cludes a class, however it may be in a minority, and puts all power in the hands of another, however it may be in a majority, would belie history if it did not come to grief some time." "The class could make itself felt if it liked." "By doing what is contrary to human nature-giving every- thing, and taking nothing. Look, on the other hand, at the few offices in our country which are held for life or good behavior; in them the nation is invariably well served." "Time, perhaps, may work changes for the better." "Oh, the bulk of the nation is well satisfied, and well it may be. As to change, there will be none in effects until they arise in causes. So long as taxes are so low, and the suffrage so ex- tended, what are termed the masses will rule, and the educated and refined will be unrepresented." "And revenge themselves by indifference?" "As you see. The matter lies in a nutshell." Mr. Eldon Clyde would never have expressed himself as he now did on the house-tops, and yet the public very often heard ,from him. He controlled an influential newspaper, and was gen- erally reputed to be one of the few men of signal talent and in- tellectual grasp who interested themselves in politics. When he wrote a leader, or a letter, it was extensively copied and quoted, and usually carried weight. But neither letter not leader ever contained such sentiments as those he expressed to Hugh Gifford. ,They were always skilfully constructed, with a keen apprecia- tion of the calibre of the intelligences they were intended to affect. No ammunition was thrown away which would fall short of its mark, or drop from it idly without being felt, seen, or heeded. Mr. Clyde understood thoroughly the adaptation of means to ends, and useless force was as abhorrent to his taste as accu-. mulated adjectives and superfluous capitals to a purist in diction. He had, however, a very unaffected love of candor and straight- forwardness, when they could be employed without impairing his   -:      THE QUEST, FOR FOR-TUNE.       321 political influence, and scrupled notto express his honest convic- tions on select occasions. It was a maxim with him that many things might rightfilly be done which would makepolitical rela- tions more symmetrical, but which it was not expedient to at- tempt, lest the advantages already secured and enjoyed might be hazarded thereby. Thus there was an apparent inconsistency between his public and private professions which his enemies were ever swift to stigmatize, but which did not prevent his wielding a power which was often greatest when, to the common eye, its source was unseen. Perhaps the chief secret of his strength, so far as it was rot immediately imputa:le to his natu- ral powers, lay in the fact that such great numbers owed to Mr. Clyde their political advancement. He was cfuriously happy in reversing, for his own purposes, the adage which makes gratitude the reward of favors to come. At least he made those which were past pay a very fair and regular rate of interest. "I believe," said Gifford, as he regarded with curiosity a man of whose political exploits he had heard so much, ' I believe, Mr. Clyde, that you have never held office?" "I! Good heavens! No. Do I look like an office holder?" Hugh was obliged to confess that, so far as his individual ex- perience was concerned, he did not. Circumstances had lately, and to his misfortune, taken Hugh into that Milesian close borough on a large scale called the common council of the city of New York, and he certainly remembered nobody there who looked a bit like Mr. Clyde. "If I had ever accepted office for myself," continued Mr. Clyde, graciously receiving the acknowledgment, "I should not now be in the same position to command it for others." ' That seems to me," observed Hugh, smiling, " to be a dis- interestedness rather at variance with your previous explana- tions." "And, as I don't value office a straw," Mr. Clyde went on quietly, " while others value it very much, I make no sacrifice in escaping responsibilities. And now let me ask you a question ; have you seen Doke T" "Doke-? No. Who is he, pray?" "Ah, you'll soon see him, no doubt. I thought he would have called before now. But then you've been absent agood deal since you settled in your new house." 'Yes," answered Hugh, colorifig, "business has taken me to the south and west; but I shall stay in town now for the present." "* ,                         d   322        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, "Then you'll see him, without question, in good time. You'll be at the Egremont Ball?" "Oh, yes. I promised Mrs. Parapet." "A very good thing to do. Not quite so select, you know, as some of our ultra-fastidious ones would have it, but you'll find a great deal to amuse." "I'm anxious to see some of the celebrities of the day." "To be sure. The Parapet circle is quite the loftiest, of course but a trifle too monotonous, perhaps, to revolve in perpetually. Nothing like variety. I believe in social rotations as I do in offi- cial ones." "Variety, I am told, is quite the feature of the Egremonts." "And so it is. Not indiscriminate, you know. It wouldn't be fair to say so ; but they're safe to give you a very tolerable idea of our social fabric. You'll find it quite diversified enough, considering it's a democratic one. Light and shade, color and ornamentation, enough to please Mr. Ruskin.- There's sufficient variety in all conscience, before you get up to the Parapets." "And yet, as you say, the edifice is a democratic one." "Politically, my dear sir, but not socially ; a distinction with a difference, which no one can better expound than your friend Mrs. Parapet." CHAPTM    VII. CRUSH, glitter, and confusion. A paradise of silks and laces and flowers, from which glance dazzling eyes and snowy shoul- ders and dainty feet. A paradise of light and movement, mel- odious with Verdi and oderous with Lubin.  A paradise of beauty, with houris innumerable floating about in every bewitch- ing phase of coloring and contour that dreams present to us or fancy paints. Mrs. Parapet spoke most truly when she said the Egremonts always had shoals of pretty girls. And, albeit the expression which implied multitude might also have con- veyed a tincture of contempt, I for one am religiously of opinion that shoals of pretty girls are signally conducive to the eclat and success of a ball. To look lovely and dance well, are virtues which no vigor of intellect, no loftiness of soul, can compensate in those fleeting hours when pretty girls at once play havoc with one sex and revenge themselves on the other for that   C:          THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         323 current sneer of theis, that beauty must ever and perforce be brainless. But the Egremonts had something besides pretty girls to boast of, they had also noble rooms to show them   off in; lofty  saloons, where, eschewing'old-fashioned chandeliers, light came , from above, and, the jets concealed by cornices, a softened re- fulgence spared the eyes without impairing the effect of ladies' toilets; saloons in long suites of almost regal splendor, and ending in a theatre large enough to hold all the assembled guests; they had pictures and statues of sterling merit, which relieved the delicate neutral tints of the walls; and a spacious conservatory, which afforded the charm of masses of green shade and the perfume of natural flowers to refresh senses which the outer radiance and artificial odors might have palled. Then the Egremonts had an orchestra probably as good of its kind as could be 'found in the world-an orchestra which dealt forth dance music in the ciispest and daintiest of styles, and supplied operatic entr'actes with a feeling and completeness which quickened imagination and stimulated flirtation quite as much as was desirable. Moreover, in good time, viands were forthcoming, which no French or any other cuisine could be ex- pected to surpass; while the wines were such that more fastidi- ous critics than the majority of guests were likely to be would have been more than content with them. As Mr. Clyde had prognosticated, there were a great many celebrities there. People noted for gold were perhaps the shin- ing lights, but there were others whose names were famous in connection with law, with big contracts, -with houses and ships, with high offices of state, with long railways, and fat insurance companies; nay, there were -one or two who had made good books and pictures, and, not over agreeably to the sensitive Parapetian taste, there were a good many politicians. Politics, however, were as essential as mother's milk had been to the head of the house -of Egremont; and, to do him justice, he was liberal enough to invite opponents as well as friends. He courts yon- der great lawyer, who thinks Slavery must be right, because he has had some heavy slaveholding clients, and has read up in their interest, no more than he does Blurt, the great sewing-machine man, who thinks Slavery must be wrong, because a blackl man he once had in his employ understood the binomial theorem. The truth is, the master of the house, without being a giant in intellect, has an essentially kind and liberal nature. Even poor poets find places at his board-a phenomenon which, it must be owned, is raver at the tables of the rich in republics than  'is rarer at of the rich in repz   324        MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, in monarchies. There is Prodder, for instance; you don't know Prodder? He writes little articles and versicles for what are called!"literary weeklies," which start into existence with a great: blaze of trumpets, and an imposing roll-call-Prodder's always figuring in large caps-and die in a few weeks after, without even the poor reverence of a valedictory dead march for the burial of the last number. Of course it isn't Prodder's fault that the New Yorkers have no taste for any sort of weekly, unless' in the style of a feeble cross between 2eynolds's Miscellany and the Sporting Life. And yet, perhaps, if he had saved a little vitality--whatever else he may have exhausted it upon-so that his effusions, always respectable in other respects, had not been so desperately dry, provincial, and prejudiced, something like a sounder taste might have grown up ere this and waxed strong in the land. However, let us not blame Prodder too severely. He is the product of his latitude and his age; and if his latitude and his age require as intellectual pabulum nothing better than vulgar newspapers, emasculated poemlets, and political sermons, let them have their meat and go their way. There are worse men than Prodder here, for all his blunder in thinking the gods have made him poetical. Crash goes the orchestra, and back and forth swings the motley throng. Through a gorgeous fringe of it comes Hugh Gifford, who has returned, as he promised, in season for the famous ball. He makes his way through a brilliant knot of officers-whom he notices particularly, as recognizing in several the shopmen who attended to his wants when making sundry small purchases, at various times, in Broadway. They are point-de-vice now, how- ever, and think no more of shop than Gifford himself thinks of Armstrong's Bar. Not so much, perhaps; for his thoughts did wander thither as he gazed on the many lovely women before him, and remembered how often on starlight nights he had wandered by the river side there with one more beautiful than the loveliest, all unaided as was the gem by the fashion and cost: liness of its setting. Hugh ensconced himself behind some shrubbery, and looked for a while on the joyous scene in silence. "Not sad and solitary on a night like this, surely?" cried a voice, as Mr. Clyde stepped into the'conservatory by his side. "Oh, dear, no. Only waiting. It is a gala day with the Parapets; Clinton has returned, quite unexpectedly, by the Scotia, and Madame mere is in the best of spirits. I promised to meet the party here at ten." "And it only lacks five minutes. Good evening, General;   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       325 you're looking younger than ever, I protest; and how is trade now?" "Slack, sir, slack; and will be until the spring season. We're always dull, you know, after the river closes," replied a dignified man with white hair and epaulets. The general was a boot and. -. shoe dealer down town. They have found different generals of late years. - "Now, Mr. Clyde," cried a handsome middle-aged woman in white brocade, sweeping by on the arm of an Italian singer, "are you going to oppose Mr. Mellish for the Senate this spring? I told him I'd get it from your own lips, and I will." "Ah, my dear madam, so much may happen between now and spring. Why, you can't even tell what may then be the fashion in bonnets; how then can you expect me to tell what may be the mode for senators?" "But only just listen. Pray forgive me an instant, Signor Bragoli. That cold-blooded fish, Bayman, says you're dead set against him; and that you declared you'd send him out of Albany ten thousand behind!" "Indeed, I never made such a boast. Believe me, if I intend- ed such a thing I should never trumpet it beforehand. And as to Mr. Bayman---" "I know; the little sallow wretch thinks only of himself. I may tell Mr. Mellish you won't oppose him then?" "Tell him I never thought of such a thing." "He'll be so grateful, for if you don't nobody else can." And she swept on, leaving a heavy flavor of verbena mingled with the geraniums and tea roses of the conservatory. "Women are such odd creatures," said Mr. Clyde, softly, "especially when they turn politicians. She'll tell Bayman the same thing of me before the night's over, and wring from him an assurance which will be equally valuable with my own. And yet Mis. Mellish fancies herself, and indeed has the reputation, of being a very female Machiavel. Have you danced?" - "I promised to stand up first with Miss Parapet." "Oh, you could scarcely do so with a more lovely partner." "Miss Parapet is certainly very handsome. There are many lovely girls here, but none I have seen are more beautiful than she is." "Have you seen Miss Dimity?" "No. Who is she?" "Daughter to the great. dry goods firm. A tall girl-the finest blonde'in the room. Great rush for her since the new   store has been built up town. But they say nothing in trade will do for her now." "What! Do such people despise the ladder whereby they have mounted to fortune?" "Certainly. Kick it over when they get to the top rung, and pretend they never mounted it at all." "But in a democratic community "  "My dear sir, if there were less political equality among us there would be more social equality. As it is, every one is dying to get among the Parapets, and to achieve the reputation of do- ing nothing." And, talking of their majesties, in came the Parapets at this moment, appropriately heralded by a grand march. They always came late to affairs of this sort, and went early. The mystery of their existence would be rudely dispelled were they to make themselves common to the eyes of the vulgar. Sailing augustly through the clouds of laces and satins, decked out with bouquets and flashing gems, the party made its way to the hostess, who was duly crushed by the honor done her; and then to a cor-  ner where Mrs. Parapet mounted a sort of throne, where she received the homage of a select few who were permitted to approach it. Clinton, more condescending as becoming the younger scion of royalty, presently mingled with the rabble, and established a violent flirtation with Miss Dimity. That young lady, alive to the opportunity for social advancement, hazarded something at a favorable moment about his mother and sister; but Clinton, quite free from snobbery as he was, would no more have dared to present her than he would have dared to present Mr. M'Fenian. There was a despotism which not even the au- dacity of youth, the impulse of good nature, and the fresh hold on a mother's heart gained by the unexpected return from abroad, could venture to offend. Meanwhile, Hugh was waltzing away in fine style with Edith Parapet, and all was going merry as a marriage-bell,. More arrivals, more silks and diamonds, more waltzes of Strauss, Lanner, and Labitzky, and more pretty women! Just after midnight'enter the Mayor and his family. His honor is re- puted to have committed every sin in the decalogue, and, unmind- ful of the old-time axiom, which attributes honor to thieves who deal with each other, he is said to be a double-edged glaive, cut- ting both friend and foe. There are people before, behind, on every hand, who have suffered from his peculations, and the aggregate public worst of all. Yet he is received, adulated, smiled upon. Oh yes, my dear sir, for you must know he is an   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        327 amazingly smart man, and weareth a robe in his civic chair which covers as much as charity. . Oe thing in fairness let us admit-- I he gets no recognition from the Parapets. He may wrigle andI finesse as he likes; and madam mayoress may exhaust her mag-  azine of feminine intrigues and devices, bit into that charmed circle they get no entrance.                   ii!;ma "What a fearfully mixed assemblage!'" murmurs Mrs. Para-   S the new arrivals.              ,M "Ah, my dear madam," answers the gentleman at her elbow, .  what can you expect when there are scarcely any occupations  !I' save trading and cheating, any studies save of cash-books and  ! ledgers, any aspirations save who shall be richest! The ele- ments which constitute a high-minded, chivalrous, and cultivated i society, are wanting in a purely commercial community, and so must they ever be." The speaker is Mr. Cabot, a fossil beau of the past generation. He saw Washington and Hamilton when a youth, and sat at ctt table with Carroll of Carrollton. No wonder he dislikes the peo- ple of to-day.                          -iAi "Clinton; is dancing too much with that yellow-haired girl.' [ don't know her, so of course she's one of the new people's  laughters."             :':.1 "Any one could detect that by comparing her with Miss Para-J )et," said the old gentleman, with his courtly bow. "There are^1 cores of handsome young women now-a-days to a single really   i A klegant one."                  '!:O! What a   delicious polka? and away  goes  Clinton Parapet round the great saloon tfor the twentieth time with his new   iiii harmer, and until she is quite exhausted, and must sink upon a Muteui in a cooler room.                    -!! "I say, Gifford," says Clinton, " it's deuced hot! Come, Pinck- M ey, come with us. You get no supper until half-past one, you now. Gifford and I are going. to have a  bottle of cham-j i agne." May I  not bring you an ice?" asks Gifford of Edith Parapet. "Thanks, yes; only don't remain; but pray go with Clinton,   ,i! r  I'm sure you must feel the heat."      inton, "It won't be uncomfortable. long," lisped Wirt Pinckney; Egiremont has a new ventilating apparatus, and can fix the mer- I; i  ry exactly' where he likes without making a draught."ll "How delightful! Thank you, Mr. Gifford. Yes, I  like nilla; and now, do go, "you three, and get your champagne."  ?ii! "I shan't stay long," exclaims Clinton, running back hurried-      - i *   ly to his charmer. "Remember, Miss Dimity, the schottische, please, the fourth dance from this." ; c Oh, I shall be sure to recollect," responded the young lady, * with a smile all the more fascinating for being a little languid. "Don't- dance with that girl any more," whispers Edith, as her brother passes her again. "( Mamma isn't pleased, and papa has just come in from the club with Mr. Stapleton." "I must keep my engagement, whatever I do." -  (' "Well, but after?" "After will be supper time." "I've just met an old friend," remarks Mr. Clyde to Gifford, as the young men returned from their champagne, " and if you like I'll introduce you to a ward of his, a young lady who, to my poor bachelor taste, is the most bewitching at the ball. Only you mustn't be bewitched, for she's engaged. Will you come ." "With much pleasure. Just permit me to make a word of apology to Miss Parapet."' Which done, on they go through the crowded rooms, now denser than ever with laces, and silks, and dazzling eyes, and complexions radiant with exercise and excitement; and, as they go, the orchestra, by way of respite fi'om the long continued dance-music, strikes up some tender souvenir of Bellini's. Through the saloons, under arches, across corridors, to the con- servatory, where Clyde first accosted him, and Gifford finds himself presented to a tall, suave-looking man, with white cravat and frosty locks. He misses the name, but hears himself intro- duced as "My young friend, -Mr. Gifford." Then some one in a delicate lemon-colored silk, with rose-buds in her hair, glides forward fi'om among the geraniums, while Mr. Clyde concludes the ceremony with: "And allow me to present-Mr. Gifford--Miss Rooke." CHAPTEK V.111. GODWrI thought a man was never in such danger of missing the applause of the world as when he took the greatest possible pains to deserve it. The cynicism is gloomy enough, and its inference, if generally accepted, would surely be fatal to honest endeavor. Perhaps, like many wise saws, its application should be limited to philosophers; when it would become easy and not   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        329 so disheartening to recognize its truth. The author of "Political j Justice" had doubtless some reason to complain of a world which !M thought it had many to complain of him; but the judgments of   J author and public are so often at variance respecting the compar- l{ ative merit of works as to make it strange that a philosopher 'ir should overlook the root of the discrepancy. Now, Hugh Gif-   I ford, being neither author nor philosopher, was duly astonished  I that after taking the utmost possible pains to find Marian, so that  he really felt he deserved to have found her,1 she should sudden- i ly rise before his eyes unsought and unexpected. But they were  I in very decorous and very observant society now, so that they  ili could not rush into each other's arms had they been so minded. Neither could Marian faint, nor Hugh indulge in any correspond- ing sign of emotion, such as they would have been free to in the X woods or prairies. The meeting, so far as words went, was most prosaic; for Hugh, as ,he bowed low over Marian's out-     stretched hand, merely mumbled something inarticulate, while   ;I Marian, who was never inarticulate, said simply in the old sweet :ii contralto:- ' I am very glad to see you." X ' You have, then, met before?" said Mr. Clyde, in some sur-  i,, prise. "Oh, yes," answered Marian steadily, "we are very old friends. But it is some time since we have seen each other."', 'I am fortunate in bringing you together. And since you       have both been in Europe at the same time without meeting, you    will be grateful that the contretemps is not repeated in America." ij "You have been in Europe?" asked Marian with interest. " You?"               ;,!jj "Why not?" said Hugh, laughing. "You always told me I      ;, was to go, you know."                      ?1: "But that was to be after you had made your fortune."     :! "t Ah, in this great gossiping city one is, after all, so obscure. 7q You have not heard, of course?"                 I "Heard what?"       .                  I i i "Why, Miss Rooke e"-he did not call her Marian now,      i! although the two elder gentlemen had strolled away in earnest ; i i Conversation, and were fairly out of earshot-"Why, Miss      " Rooke, the great diream is accomplished at last, and I have made my fortune.."     .                      i " "You, Mr. Gifford; you are rich ,              ii  ' Passably so," returned Hugh, carelessly, " although mine is 'iii no great heap of lucre compared to some of the colossal ones  lj which tower around me. However, I don't complain. I have    ?i l   330         MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, my house, my carriage, and more than enough to support them with dignity; more than I ever expected to possess-more than I deserve." "A house; a carriage?" "Which I keep up as well as one so solitary can." "Solitary?" "Quite so. For although I have some good friends who are very civil to me in their houses, my own is lonely enough. The Parapets, for example -" "Ah, you know the Parapets?" "I owe to them such footing as I have in this slippery world of fashion." "Miss Parapet is beautiful, is she not?" "Most people call her so. She is strikingly graceful and well bred." "You have known her long?" "Not long; nor any such as she. You forget I am quite a nouveau riche."  "At least since your return from Europe." "Oh, yes; since my return from Europe." ' And how long were you there?" "Nearly a twelvemonth. I returned three months ago." - And when did you leave California?" "Almost immediately before that. I was in the Eastern States hardly a week before I sailed." "And our friends at Armstrong's Bar" ' '"Were all well and happy when I left them; and a few weeks ago they were all equally well, and happier still." "Why happier?" "What, of all things, should make them so? They are -growing richer. Like myself, they have been having their turn of luck. Doctor Landale writes me that they have done so well that the Armstrongs think seriously of returning and settling, as they long since hoped to do, on the old family place at Say- brook. And the doctor hopes to have his cottage on the Clyde. And pretty Kitty is to be Mrs. Railes at Midsummer, and --" "Tell me," interrupted Marian, to whom all these questions and answers had .been vague and half meaningless, except as they drew near to the subject which most absorbed her thoughts.- Hugh's last statement, suggestive as it was, stimulated an im- patience which now overleaped her reserve. 'Tell me, then, Hugh Gifford, since you have grown rich, where-where-'is- Virginia?,' Hugh's countenance fell. "I will tell you all when we may ,. . *   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        331 see each other-without interruption. For the present I will only say that we met directly on my return. The family still believed me poor. It was arranged that a year should elapse-  another year of probation. That year has barely' expired, and--" ;'Now, Miss Marian," cried Mr. Rivingstone, approaching, "my friend Clyde here claims the fulfilment of your promise." "He can scarcely forego it," said Mr. Clyde, " since it is his only dance-his sole assertion of juvenility for the evening-and Miss Rooke has kindly promised to lend it lustre." "To-morrow," whispered Hugh, hurriedly, "' if I may call, I will finish my story." And Mr. Clyde bore off his prize at a moment when she was almost inclined to show fight rather than be captured. And Hugh, looking after in a dazed and helpless fashion, watched while his prairie flower mingled with the choice exotics of the ball-room, putting to shame the sweetest and most attractive among them; at least in the opinion of one connois- seur who fancied himself a qualified judge. "You have known Miss Rooke in former days," said Mr. Rivingstone, drawing near and regarding our hero with in- terest. "Yes. In the west-in California," replied Hugh, scarcely knowing how far he was justified in referring to Marian's pre- vious life. "Her fate seemed rather a sad one," continued the elder gen- tleman, gravely, 1" although not more so than that of many by whom it was equally undeserved. In a few years the world will marvel that things could occur among a Christian people such as would disgrace the records of middle-age barbarians; and some will deny they ever existed. But 3Iarian Rooke is only one among hundreds of those who will live and bear witness to the truth." "I supposed you to be a Southerner," observed Gifford, cau- tiously. ' I have lived in the South during many years of my life, else I should not feel competent to judge it so freely. There is more good and more evil there than most Northerners believe; and both are misrepresented. What with philanthropists who get all their facts at second hand on the one side, and bigoted parti- sans whlo would suppress facts altogether on the other, the South fares ill, I think, with both friends and foes in the North. But Miss Rooke has enlightened you." "She has told me," said Hugh, with some hesitation, " enough to convince me that wrong can' exist in the South as foul as the   332         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, bitterest abolitionist ever painted. But perhaps I have no right without her license to refer to such a subject." "She has spoken of you before, and told me how far you were in her confidence." ' Indeed 1" ' When Mr. Clyde proposed to introduce you I did not catch the name, but identified it afterwards. Marian has told me  much of you." "so Miss Rooke is most kind to hold me in such remembrance." "She was interested in your future. She looked forward to your marriage-I am versed in your private affairs, you se-- and to your becoming distinguished hereafter." "Distinguished?" "She thought you had qualities which would ripen into valua- ble ones for your country. A great politician is Marian." "'I should scarcely have, supposed, did I not know to the con- trary, that one who had suffered so much by its institutions would feel much interest in the country which fostered and per- petuated them." "Ah, women are so different from men in that respect. Their inspiration is more of His who said, ' They that are well need not a physician, but they that are sick.' The woment will prove the best healers, and, in good time, the best peacemakers among us after all. But so far as Marian is concerned, she has no un- mitigated complaint to make against her country's laws, bad as some of them may be." "I do not understand you." "( Then I must leave her to finish a story which was only partly told. To change the subject-how do you like the family I heard Clyde mention just now? How do you like the Parapets?" "Why," answerered Hugh, who thought the change of subject rather abrupt, "they are a most dignified and excellent family. Highly accomplished, of high breeding, and superior parts." 4"They are like many families I have known in the South; at least in the characteristics you cite. But my Southernfl'iends were not faultless, whereas you appear to think the Para- pets "I did not say so. On the contrary, however impeccable in a moral or social sense, I think them decidedly at fault politically. Why, do you know, that with all their wealth, lands, influential position, and ancient name, so far as the public service is con- cerned, they positively do " "ZNothing, I know ; while oar Southern Parapets do every- thing; so that, although working in different directions, they   THE QUEST FOR' FORTUNE.        333 effect about an equal amount of mischief. In the North the higher classes are unrepresented, and in the South the lower. Each will ultimately be forced to fulfil the neglected duty by agencies whose stress will be the more irresistible the longer they remain dormant." "Our Parapets say, 'after them the deluge.'" "And so say their Southern prototypes. But like the prophet who said it before them, they may yet see and feel the storm be- fore their tenure is over. But here come one of them to check i our treason." "Excuse me, my dear fellow," cried Clinton Parapet, coming up, " but you are under an engagement which it will be danger- ous not to fulfil; and, being in disgrace myself, I am well fitted to warn you of its pains and penalties.'  "A thousand thanks.' I have been thoughtless indeed, but through uncommon provocation. May I beg you, sir, to offer my compliments to Miss Rooke, and to say that I assume her permission to call?" ' With much pleasure. I am certain she will have much to hear and to tell." "By Jupiter!" exclaimed Clinton, as the two young men wound their way back to the Parapet throng, "the moun- tain has come to Mahomet after all!" CHAPTER IXS  GIFFORD had modestly described his pyramid of gold as small   1; compared with others. It was not, however, so small as to fail to attract attention and homage. The very day after the great ball brought evidence to the contrary. His presence at that fes-  tivity was quickly known to many wistful adorers whom his erratic movements hitherto had enabled him to elude, but who   j now congratulated themselves that their victim had returned to  j town for the season, and could not hereafter escape their toils.  Upon his breakfast-table Hugh found an extraordinay variety  ? of cards, notes, and other missives, chiefly from strangers, and -i which excited his surprise as to how the senders could even know i of his existence. There were printed suggestions that he should A; buy his boots at the store of the general officer to whom he had } been presented the night before; and requests that he should pat- j: i:.is n,.    334   -      MEIAN cOOeI; OR, ronize in the way of dry goods the house of Dimity, Drilling, & Co, the senior partner being the parent of the young lady who had been Clinton Parapet's for such an unconscionable number of dances on the same occasion.    l There were, besides, a shop-card of Mr. McFenian's liquor establishment, down town, and a package of election tickets, containing that patriot's name, as a candidate for some munici- pal office of trust and emolument, with "lMcFenian's Unap- proachable Mountain Dew, at one dollar and fifty cents a gallon,"  underlined thereon; several playbills affixed to preposterous eu- logies of the " classic and scholarly performance of the Melan- choly. Dane and the Cardinal Duke,' by an artist whose classi- cality must have been culled from Sunday newspapers, and whose scholarship certainly went very little beyond writing his name; an illustrated exhibit of the merits of the '"Matutinal Regenera- tor, or Croto-Columbian Prize Cocktail," strengthenedf by the names of one hundred statesmen, divines, heroes, and poets, who had been rescued through profuse indulgence in that cordial from the couch of disease and decrepitude to attain the highest pinnacle of health and fame; many kindred schedules of won- derful hair-dyes, apple-parers, life-restorers, lip-salves, seven- shooters, water-cure establishments, and electrical machines; together with a handsomely-printed statement on silver paper, to the effect that there would be an auction sale of some of the choicest pews in the Reverend Dr. Gracie's new church, on Fifth Avenue, that day, at one o'clock precisely; half cash, the balance on approved bills at sixty or ninety davs. But what struck Hugh as the oddest among these remarkable productions, was an enamelled card of rather large size, on which appeared the figures of two cherubs, apparently struggling for the possession of a scroll, each having got hold of one end. On this scroll was inscribed in a text, surrounded by flourishes, the name "Salathiel Doke." When our hero rose in the morning he found one of these cards lying on a chair by his bedside, and concluded it had found its way there by some mistake. But when in due course he went to his toilet-table, he discovered that the error must have been duplicated, for ( Salathiel Doke" lay there as well. When he was taking his bath, the steady Englishman Hugh had engaged as a sort of major-domo, inti- mated through the door that Mr. Doke was most anxious to see him; that he had been informed Mr. Gifford was not yet dress- ed, but that he declared he would wait; that he had made his way into the reception room on the ground-floor, where he was now engaged in conversing with a policeman through the will-   TlE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        335 dow; and should he, Dobson, request the policeman to take him away, or would Mr. Gifford choose to see him?           I Mr. Gifford chose the latter, by all means ; since he had heard ,  the name mentioned, not disrespectfully, by his friend Mr. Clyde. But he should not be ready to see any one for some time; so, not to keep him waiting, his compliments, and would Mr. Doke be good enough to call an hour hence? To this proposal Mr. Doke was pleased graciously to assent, although he favored the imperturbable Dobson as he departed with the expression of his wonder as to what folks should be a week washin' themselves for. Reasons for such a want of sympathy might have been found with -no very minute examination perhaps, but Dobson was too anxious to get the pertinacious visitor out of the house before his own surveillance should be withdrawn in favor of his master's breakfast, to be over critical. Hugh was trying to read a leader in the Optimist, which con- sisted chiefly of adjectives and personal pronouns, when a third pair of cherubs, striving to rend Salathiel Doke, were presented to him, and, without waiting to be asked, the gentleman himself followed Dobson into the room. He was a short, stoutish man, with a large beard, which should have been grizzled, but which  I. was dyed to a changeable color. That is to say, it was of a glit- tering, metallic black in the shade or by candle-light, and a mis- cellaneous sea-green when viewed-in the rays of the sun. This beard was suffered to grow as it listed, save on about two inches of the upper lip, where it was carefully scraped off, leaving the i flesh livid and indignant below. Over each corner of the mouth, therefore, two tufts of truncated moustache were permitted to flourish, stiff with the vigor which was prohibited from develop-  ing itself elsewhere. Mr. Doke's eyes were small, and would    ! have been colorless had they not been slightly bloodshot; his nose was long and peaked, but enlarged suddenly at the base of the nostrils, so as to give an idea that sections of two incongru- ons noses had through some accident been pieced together. The hair was cut very short, and stood up in bristles all over the   i head; and the mouth was armed with rows of short, white teeth, vlwhich were almost constantly displayed. Mr. Doke's expression was suggestive of the hybrid that he was: being of that pleasant compound of Jesuit and rowdy which   i has grown to be something too prevalent in the Atlantic cities, and which is not prone to alleviate the effect of numbers, by   i hiding its light under a bushel. The general results which ac-   : crue from pouring multitudes of ignorant immigrants, bound by   i the ties of common nationality and religion, into the crowded i ,   336          AMRIN ROOE; OR, streets of seaboard' towns, instead of modifying their power of mischief by scattering them over the boundless prairie, have now been sufficiently felt and appreciated to need no description here. One of those results was Mr. Salathiel Doke; and he was, perhaps, a favorable specimen of the Americanized Celt. Of the origin of his name, patronymic or other, history makes no sign; but the Dennises and Patricks and Terences usually die out in the second republican generation, the latter dying harder than the others; although why Irish-Americans should cleave to a prenomen borrowed from an African slave, is an enigma difficult to solve. However, the present Mr. ) Doke was innocent of such a taint, and probably owed his christian name -if the term be not inapplicable-to a progenitor who had learned to be proud of the fame of his countryman, Dr. Croly. Like the prince of Naphtali, Mr. Doke was a great man in Is- rael, as he, in good season, let Gifford understand; but the lat- ter had time to speculate neither on his visitor's person nor his origin, since Mr. Doke instantly attacked him in a manner which compelled the adoption of a vigilant and exclusive defensive. Ho! ho! hol" roared Mr. Doke at the top of his voice, and, before his host knew what he was at, slapping him vigor- ously on the back, I' How are yer? Ho! ho! ho! managed to crawl out o' bed, at last, have yer? I bin' down to Fulton Market, and eat two dozen on the half-shell at Dorlon's before I come here fust, I did. What yer doin' with them things A" and he took up an egg-cup which Hugh had been in the act of using, and capsized the contents of the egg into a saucer. LThat's handier, ain't it? ,Ho! ho! ho! and how are yer, anyhow?" Gifford was so taken aback by the assurance-the elan of his assailant-so persuaded that no sane human being would accost another in such a way unless they had met before, that he yielded instinctively to the impression that he must really be for- getting some old friend whom he ought to remember, and found himself responding to Mr. Doke's almost superhuman hand- shakes and hyena-grins before, as the phrase goes, he knew  where he was. "I'm devilish glad to see yer," pursued Salathiel, with a fresh burst of laughter, and, wringing his host's hand with frantic energy, "That's so. Ha! ha. ha!  I hain't had time to look at the paper to-day; let's have a squint," and he took the journal from Gifford's knees. 1"Let's see what the gay old cuss has to say for himself Circulation increased ten thousand since yesterday. Certingly, nuthin' shorter. He's a lively old skunk, ain't he? Only paper there is though. Only paper that's posted   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       337 on the true distribootion of political power, and writin' just the way common folks talk, so they can always understand it. Highfalutin' don't go down for papers in York. Folks hain't got time to study 'em out. Ha! ha! ha! and how are yer, anyhow?" "Well," said Hugh, beginning to recover himself at last, "I'm tolerably, thank you. But am I mistaken in supposing that we have met before?" "Oh, no," responded the other, "Oh dear, no. We've met, sure enough. Didn't know as you'd recollect it, though. That smellsnice now, don't it?'" and Mr. Doke took a cigar from the mantel and quietly lighted it, continuing his discourse between the puffs. "That's genuine, sure. Some folks have no eye for faces-I have. It's part o' my business. Many and many's the vote I've got by spottin' a man, and recollecting his name just when he was a waverin' after, may be, takin' his V from both sides. He! he! he! You didn't say nothin' about bitters, did yer?" "No, I didn't," answered Hugh, quietly; " but I will, if you like. Dobson, a bottle of brandy, glasses, and Boker's bitters. Pray mix for yourself, sir; and then, perhaps, you'll tell me whether it was in Boston or in California-in San Francisco, perhaps-that I had the pleasure " "Oh no," interrupted Mr. Doke, "Oh dear, no. I don't go out of York if I know it. It's a good enough town for me. I don't count it a true sign of a patriot to be runnin' about from pillar to post all over Ameriky when there's such a rippin' good burg as this to stay in;" and the speaker, by way of emphasizing his contentment, hooked a second chair toward him with his foot, and stretched his legs thereon in great ease and comfort. "Then, may I ask where?" "You may that.  I met yer one day comin' out'of old Car- boy's office, in Wall Street. I was there to get his assessment for puttin' through the Unscratched Scallywag ticket for the next moonicipal, and you was there to buy stocks. -We met, as they say, on the Ri-al-ter, where muchants most do congregate. I dunno who got stuck, but it weren't me. The Scallywags was elected by a large majority, and if you was histed on Erie or Harlem it'll be because old Carboy is too manyfor yer. Ila! - ha! ha! better luck next time. My respecks" *"Thank you. You'll excuse my restricting myself to coffee, as I don't take spirits, and hardly feel the need of a tonic so early in the day, I have, I believe, the pleasure of addressing Mr. Doke?" 15   338         MARIAN ROOiE; OR, "That's so. S. Doke in general, Sal Doke among the b'hoys, Colonel Doke at Gammony Hall, Salathiel Doke, Esquire, on School Committees and in the papers.  You can take yer chice." Hugh bowed. ' Well, Mr. Doke, perhaps you will now-tell me how I can serve you." "Ho! ho! ho! That's reversin' the ingine, that is. Howlin' good cigars o' yourn. I'll take a few if you,don't mind. Serve me. He!  he! he! That's votin' the ticket backwards; putting the cart before the horse. Why, Judge, I come here to serve you!"  Hugh bowed again.   "I'm greatly obliged, I'm sure, only  " "Only you don't see how I can! Don't put too fine a point on it'! Ila! ha! ha! You don't see how I can." "Why, you perceive in my ignorance of your profession and influence--" , v "Sech," interposed Mr. Doke, settling himself more com- fortably by throwing one leg over the arm of his chair, and ejecting his smoke in half-benignant, half-speculative puffs-- "Sech is fame; a man invents a patent back-action bowie slicer, or scribbles a voloom of peek-a-boo pomes, and his name is girdled round about the airth in forty minutes--is big in mouths of widest censor! But direct the politics of a great metropolis --reggerlate the internal. affairs of a million haughty and' screechin' fireemen-manipoolate every ticket for three years in the Gammony interest, kerryin' even the unterrified Sixth in the holler of yer hand, until yer consoomate the triumph of liberty in an overwhelmnin' majority for the whole ticket of Unscratched Scallywags, and then not to be heard tell of! Why, Mr. Presi- dent, it's enough to make a man, however patriotic, blush for the advertisin' mediums of the community he has served! Enough to make him abandon, in disgust, the service, of that public which has proved so ungrateful, and devote to his own private aggrandizement the talents so imperfectly requited!" '" As I am and have been an utter stranger," began Hugh, apologetically, "and scarcely know a dozen names in the city  A "It is the cuss," continued the orator; waving his hand as if to deprecate any interruption to his peroration-"It is the cuss of Republican communities that they are prone to be ungrateful; it should be, above all others, our endeavor to wipe out that re- proach, so far as it is applicable to the case of our heroic fellow- citizen, Colonel S. Doke. That, sir, is an extract from a speech   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       339 made in the walls of Gammony by Erin's pure and high-souled orator, Phoenix O'Grady, when candidate for City Attorney, I bein' Chairlman of the Nominating Committee." "I've heard complaints that Mr. O'Grady permitted some heavy claims, due the city from individuals, to lapse; and that his laches, however influenced, cost New York a million or more of money." "A base fabrication," exclaimed Doke, frowning sternly, "in- vented by the nigger-worshippers, who hate O'Grady, for his advocacy of the interests of his noble and enlightened country- men. However, that's neither here or there. Comin' more im- mejiately to the question before the meeting, I've heard tell of you, sir, if you haven't heard tell of me." "Pardon me. I have heard of you, Mr. Doke," said Gifford, soothingly, " through my friend, Mr. Clyde. I merely intended to express my ignorance of your particular station and pur- suits." "Oh, Eldon talked about me, did he?" inquired Mr. Doke, somewhat mollified. "He spoke of you as a celebrity." "I reckon he might without setting him back any. Why, do you know, if it hadn't been for me; he'd never kerried out that precious little game o' his, that ended in nominatin' Spidershank and upsettin' the Locomotive Bill?" "No," marvelled Gifford, quite innocent of the whole affair; : "wouldn't he, though "             '  "Fact. While he fixed the legislatur, I cooked Gammony.    And neither of 'em could have worked without the other."    i "I see."                   -  "The Silver-grays and the Dough-heads could pull together  j for once, you know," added Mr. Doke, explanatorily, "when there was so much money in a thing. But, now," said the speaker, waving aside all previous subjects of conversation, and {a mixing another cocktail to go on with-"now, about your i' affair."                           ii Mr. Doke paused for a reply; and Hugh; seeing one was    ij expected, waited a moment or two, and then asked vaguely,  ! "What affair?"i "Ha! ha! ha! That's a good 'un! I take it there's only one ji kind of affair in which the services of Salathiel Doke is requisite. i Here you are surrounded by gilded luxury, havin', as I may say, :IX the entry to good society, and requirin' only one thing to com- ii plete the advantages of your position. Only one thing you   i need, and for that the assistance of Doke is indispensable."  j  . ,!   340         MARIAN ROOKE  OR, "I am still in the dark." "ook a hear! Be you a patriot? Be you anxious to serve your country? Does your bosom swell with a lofty desire to be a leader among men? Would you admire to have your name writ high in the annals of history? If that's so, Doke's your man." "I begin to perceive." "I allowed you only wanted one thing-havin', as you may say, youth, health, and wealth-only one thing is needed in our  happy land to finish off the sum of human felicity; but one i thing-office. To that giddy height, Doke's is the hand that can smooth yer way." "But to what kind of office, asked Hugh, doubtfully, "do you refer? and; supposing a candidate to be qualified, upon what conditions are your services proffered?" Mr. Doke smiled. There was a refreshing simplicity to his in- durated and experienced mind, both in the idea of any particular qualification being essential to a candidate's success, and in that that there could be any possible obscurity as to the conditions to be exacted for assuring it. He gazedupon Gifford for a while, with something of that mingling of pity and contempt where- with an old campagner, worn and battle-scarred, regards the juvenile recruit whose toils and hazards are all before him. "Look a hear!" he said at length, " there's different kinds of offices, and there's different kinds o' ways to get at 'em. It's just like this," and he diew from his pocket five silver coins, and laid them on the table ; a half dime, a dime, a quarter dollar, a half dollar, and a dollar. "This 'ere kitten's eye stands for a little berth like common councillor, or school commissioner-same as I am. This- one next to it might be an alderman, or even a surrogate. The quarter dollar signifies p'raps a representative to the state legislatur, or some minor state office. The half is a state senator, or, may be, congressman. Finally, the big feller is a United States senator, or, possibly, a governor. These are just for signs. Now, the higher the office, the wider is the circle which has to be worked, the more wires there is to pull to work i: it, and the more it costs to'pay for hands to pull 'em. That's all ' there is about it."  "And do you mean to say," said Hugh, with some indignation, "that a man who cherishes the h onorable ambition to serve the country, in either of these capacities, must pay money in this grad- uatned seale to achieve it i9t "I-a! ha! ha!" roared Mr. Doke. "Did you ever get any- thing of vally yet without payin' for 't D'ye suppose men are   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       341 going to all the labor and expense of ward and country organiza- tions, payin' the rent of halls, and whole fortins in printing and banners, and transparencies,: let alone the rum of half the fightin' men in the district, and black mailin' the papers, and takin' the risk now and again of stuffin' a ballot box, just for the sake of amusin' theirselves? Go way! you ain't no baby to swallow sech stuff as that!" "Why, as to necessary expenses in election time," modified Gifford, "they may be all right and proper ; but bribery and corruption in a free country like this " He! he! he! Don't let any of the Gammony boys hear yer talk that way, if we set out to run yer in one o' the city districts. They'd reckon yer a Dead Beat--a psalm singin' blower, they'd call yer, that won't come down. Necessary expenses! Election  time! He! he! he! Why, the expenses are runnin' always, in election time or' out on't.. Only when votin' day's comin' on the cash is paid up, 'cause then it goes further, and tells more! I know they work it different up in St. Lawrence, and the rest o' them old-fashioned back counties, where they put on their Sun- day-go-to-meetins to vote in, and shut up the toddy shops ; but sech ways don't go down in York. York's a live town, I tell yer I That's so. And pint early, and pint often, is the motto for them who want handles to their names, or to finger the peo- ple's money!" "In a word, Mr. Doke," said Hugh, impatiently, "what do you propose?". Mr. Doke peered at his host mysteriouslyfor a space, without speaking, and then glanced rapidly about the handsome apartment with the apparent design of taking an auctioneer's inventory of its contents, before he replied: "Slick house this o' yourn, ain't it?" "It is a very comfortable one." "How much might it have cost yer, now " Hugh laughed, but answered the question. 1' "You're a pooty rich man, ain't yer?" "Pray what has that to do with our discussion?" 6 Only that I don't want to be onreasonably hard on yer. I  ain't one o' these 'ere kind o' men who want all the fat; and j what I say, I'll do. Make up yer mind what sort o' nomination 'll suit, and in about ten days I'll tell yer what'll be the figger."' "You mean how much Imust pay to secure the nomination?" "ell, not to cipher it too fine., that's about the way to put it.  Only don't take my word for anythin'. Just ask Mr. Clyde, eo  any other man posted in politics, and satisfy yourself what Doke  * ,   342        MARIAN BOOKE; OR, can do before you trust him. Don't take nothin' on any one man's word. , That's my style. How doesit suit you?"  "It seems prudent enough; especially in so delicate an affair. As a matter of curiosity, now, Mr. Doke, at what would you ap- praise the congressional nomination for the -th district?" "You mean the figger? Well, now, it's a thing thathas to be gone into some to get it exact. You see there's generally a kind of double-barrelled arrangement; one for the nomination, the other for election. Of course the Hall can insure the first, but the, second is more expensive, likewise more uncertain. I couldn't tell you percise, not right off; I couldn't, really. It's hard times just now, that's a fact; and one o' the Sachems is put- ting up a new block on his Central Park property; and another's bought out the Rising Star Brewery, half on time. I allow it's likely to be steep ; but I'd rayther not name anythin' ontil we've both had time to turn it over." "Very well, Mr. Doke," said Gifford, rising, "I will, as you suggest, take the matter into consideration; you can do the same, and we can compare notes hereafter." "All right. No harm done, anyhow. I heard you had some leanin's towards public life, and that bein' in my line I just thought I'd call. Dreadful good brandy o' yourn. Ha! ha! ha! My respecks. Excuse my French. You talk with Mr. Clyde, and ask him what Doke can do. He'll tell yer I ain't one o' these 'ere kimd o' men who go about, blowin' about what they can't do! He! he! he! Thank yer, I don't care if I do take another cigar." "Take a dozen." "Well, since yer so pressin' I think I will. Shan't get such weeds up to Jones's Wood-that's where I'm going-mass meetin' of laboring men, to protest against wastin' the public money on a new system of drainage. Spohr Hall, yer know. Oppersition ; but we're goin' to split a ticket, and fetch in our own men. Ho! ho! ho!" "Good morning, Mr. Doke." DMornin', Only one word 'more to say, and the best of friends must part. Only one word-Mum!" and Mr. Doke pressed his forefinger to his prepossessing mouth. "We'll do business, I don't doubt. 'He! he! he! I always do business with men o' the right kind! Only Mum! you know; except, of course, inquirin' as to character, and so forth. , I don't fear that 'sort o' scrootiny. And when yer posted on Doke, I'll say, for further pettikilars see small bills! Ho! he ho! ho! So good- bye, Mr. Gifford! Good mornin'!" And the political aspirant was left alone with his Optimist.   TtIE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       343 CHAPTER X. *'You think my conduct culpable, then?" "To be candid, I do not quite approve it.' "Would you have had me tell all at the first greeting; walk blindfold into an ambuscade; feeling that rocks were there, drive on to certain shipwreck?" "Who can ever tell the effect of confidence; whether it might not have dispersed the hidden enemy--have melted the rocks? Alas! In all such cases do we not judge after the event? Which shall boast, ' See I have escaped such a danger,' when a nobler course might have. obviated it altogether, and no one suffered wrong ."  "You think I have inflicted a wrong then; you think me wicked-a criminal.'" - "I do not say that. Perhaps you are entirely right. Your opportunities to judge were surely of the best. I only said, since you asked me the question, and viewing the subject with such lights as I have, that I did not quite approve the course you had pursued." Hugh rose and paced the room impatiently. He had, told Marian the whole story of his adventures since they had parted. Of how he amassed his fortune, and how a foolish man had achieved what half-a-dozen wise ones had failed in when he help- ed him to gain it. Of how he had returned all flushed with his new-born wealth, only to hide its every sign in the old haunts, and among the old friends, where it would have been hailed with loudest rapture. Of how he had used this touch-stone of pov- erty to test the affection of Virginia Chester; and had found it, as the quick event so clearly proved, to be no current coin. Tush! Gifford knew perfectly well-instinctively-that, what- ever Marian's feelings, she would not approve of the episode in question. It is true that when he came to its recital, he suffered himself for a few fleeting moments to be deceived. Deceived by a wondrously beautiful blush which ran swiftly up to Marian's brotw, and was followed by a marble paleness, when she first heard that Virginia was wedded to another, and Hugh Gifford a firee man. But this transitory emotion-the sign merely of feel- ing-was no true index of the decision of her; judgment-no   ;4J         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, mark that her sense of justice could be blinded or misled. Ma- rian's first and strongest instinct was an abhorrence of deception. No one had ever hurt or pained her in all her laughing days of childhood-in all her happy days of girlhood-up to the moment of the catastrophe, whose shadow was sharp and black indeed, but too sudden to reverse -the habits of a whole previous life. That poor Hugh's experience had left him less ingenuous, and so less ready to sympathize with or to participate in this par- ticular virtue, we need not now enforce. But he had not been near Marian for many months in daily and familiar intercourse, he had not loved Marian so deeply for most of those months, without cherishing in his breast a monitor, sometimes dormant, sometimes watchful, but never absent, which told him unerring- ly what that pure nature of hers would denounce as wrong, and what it would permit to pass unchallenged. When he had prac- tised his ruse with Virginia, the monitor was dormant; but when the story was passing from his lips to Marian's ears, the monitor was cruelly active. So Hugh adopted man's frequent and most rational argument, and tried to stifle its voice by getting angry. "Your scruples are too fastidious," he complained, "to apply to the realities of life. By, what law of right, what precept of conscience, should a man be obliged to incur the risk of his life's happiness rather than by a harmless experiment to satisfy him- self whether he is about to place it in safe keeping?" cWhat is right is never too fastidious," said Marian, gently; "and the Golden Rule suggests both the law and the precept that you ask for." ' I should not shrink from such an ordeal, if applied to my- self." "How could you, since from the conditions of the case you would be ignorant of its application?" "I mean as regards the time of probation." "If you were purposely kept in ignorance of its'real object?" "If my love were sincere, that could make no difference." t sCYoU have hit it at last. If your love were sincere!- Ah, my friend, had your love been sincere, you never had tried such an experiment. The love which is sincere would have accepted all, and doubted nothing. Your fears as to Virginia's motives were but the reflexes of your own inconstancy!" "Even admitting this--for argument's sake-wherein am I so culpable, since, had she been faithful, I was bound to keep my promise?" "Because you subjected her to a temptation for which you   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        345 had no warranty.  Because, when she plighted her troth and you reciprocated the pledge, it was a compact between eraing, finite, human beings, and not between spotless angels. Be- cause there was no condition annexed that either party should prove to be perfection in the hour of trial; but that they would each strive their feeble best to approach it. You knew well what influences surrounded Virginia-influences which had sur- rounded her from her birth. You knew that if those influences tended to produce a moral warp, especially objectionable, your duty was to seek to counteract it. What did you do? Pre- cisely what was calculated to encourage the perversion and in- sure its catastrophe!" "Enough, Marian.  I remember we have been over such a ground as this before. I might have known how severely you would judge me," he added, bitterly. ( I was your adviser then, and if now your judge, only a self- imposed one." "I pleaded then as I plead now, that there was one thing wanting which made your advice so difficult to follow. Do you remember it?" "Yes," said Marian, with a heightened color, ' I do remem- ber it. On the same occasion it was agreed that we should always be friends." "Friends!" "And," she continued, steadfastly, " as nothing was said to make us otherwise then, so I hope nothing will make us other- wise now." "(Friends!" he repeated.  "Always friends! Oh, Marian, Marian, can we never be anything more?" The girl did not answer, but turned very pale, as one does when a crisis is coming which cannot be averted, when nothing can be thrown away, not even words, without weakening that brace of the nerves which is needed to meet the expected strain. Her lips slightly parted, as they always did at moments of strong 'excitement; and her bust heaved up and down as does the breezeless sea in sympathy with the still distant but approaching storm. Beautiful was Marian always; but, like all things not quite passionless, more beautifal in action than in repose. !"Can we never be anything more? Is that cold, -old word to be used now that there is no bar between us? Are all our hours of sympathy, whispers of consolation, the sweet dreams of beauty and happiness which gilded our coarse, mean lives, those very lives themselves risked and redeemed side by side, are these to bring no softer, warmer fruit than icy friendship?"   .  .        *   :846        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, "What would you have, Hugh?" she whispered mechani. cally, almost inaudibly. , "What would I have?" he echoed, marking with eager de. light those signs that seemed to say he would not ask in vain. "Hear the woman! as if she did not know and feel, in her in- most soul, better than words can teach her. What would I have? Oh, Marian, can it be that you do not know? Not know that I love you deeply, passionately, eternally; and would have you love me in return?" "'This fire is too swift, too sudden," she murmured, her face dyeing crimson, and paling rapidly again. He caught her hand, which she vainly strove to free. "Swift! sudden! Why, it has been burning for years! Is it not more than two since we toiled together through the heart of the continent? And was it not then and there that the fire was kindled? Was it not then that, for the first time in my hard, bitter life, I was taught to see there was beauty and joy in this barren world, and that life might after all be worth the living? Did I not learn then that there were souls innocent of narrow, canting prejudice, free of the corroding taint of gold- grubbing? Did I not gaze then, through portals for the first time unbarred, on a new and brighter existence, whose possi- bility, however distant, made me endure and struggle on in the hope of one day attaining it?" "Do you mean, Gifford, to say that " "That I have loved you with all my soul since the night before we fought the Indians! That I knew that night, if life were spared to us, mine would never know love again but for you.  Ah, Marian, it was not I who was your knight-not I who bore your glove-your little Testament-through that des- perate strife; but I was not the less vowed thenceforth to your service." "You saw it then?" she asked, half smiling in the midst of -the momentous tumult these words were exciting; "Yes; and knew how Luke came by it. More, Marian; I knew that Luke loved you with a fervid, honest, manly love-" "Poor, good Luke!" murmured Marian. "But not, Marian--oh, not with a love like mine! I would not disparage what I know for manly and sincere, but love can be all that, and more than that, and yet be far, far below mine! The sun would shine, the grass would grow, the spheres con- tinue their music for one who felt a love like that, even if un- requited; but not for me, Marian! For once this tale is told, darkness, obstruction, silence, would come and welcome, too,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        347 -with disappointment. You reproach me with inconstancy, Marian; ah, me! who made me inconstant?" "Alas ." Alas, indeed, if you regret it! I mean if for my sake as well as for that of another I Do you mean you cannot return my love? For Heavenrs sake don't--don't say that! Think, Ma- rian. how very natural it was--I mean for one born and bred like me-to passionately love when he met one like you! Think of how the gloomy vista of his future was hung around after that with the warm, glowing colors of your Southern imagination! Think of how your dear presence, all glorious with hope, lighted up the path which had always before seemed so dark, so profit- less, and so monotonous; and then think how natural it was that such a presence, in scattering the promise of gladness, should also sow the seeds of love. I know myself weak-vain-a selfish egotist, no doubt. Let me have all the censure I deserve, but let me not be condemned without extenuation. The world has not been altogether kind to me. An unhappy childhood, a joyless youth, a morose and cynical manhood, are not all the fault of him who suffers or ex- hibits them. Is it vanity to say I think there is some little good buried among this ill, some gold amid this dross, some service to mankind below this misanthropy, if a tender hand be haply found which, like an enchanter's, shall reveal and put them to their noblest uses? Marian, dearest Marian, shall this hand be yours?" And there was more of this talk-wild, heated, and incohe- rent, indeed, but terribly earnest, for the man's heart was on his tongue, and like all men of his stamp, once the floodgates were open, he made no reservation. He drew a sketch of his jov, his rapture, when through the good offices of simple, grateful Ike, he saw his way to wealth such as he never dreamed of possess- ing; joy to think that now there was at least a chance-remote though it might be-that he could one day lay at Marian's feet fortune, heart, all! Of how he had hurried from Berkshire, after doing what he deemed his duty there, and sought Marian in New York--to find that she had sailed for Europe. Of how he had followed her across the sea, and hunted up and down the continent for weeks and months, to be again foiled and disap- pointed. And when he had found her at last-when he had a home, a fortune worthy of such a mistress, 'with a heart which, if unworthy, was yet so supremely devoted-would she, would Marian, disappoint him again now? And his arm had stolen about her waist during these passion-   348        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, ate adjurations, and his pleading face came nearer and nearer while he poured forth a story of love, so earnest and eloquent, that it seemed impossible for Marian, with her strong preposses- sion and her warm Southern blood, to resist its force. And yet she did so. There was something repugnant to her delicacy--notwithstanding the stress which backed Hugh Gifford's suit-in listening to the tale of the way he had ended the old love, and in the same hour accepting the position of the new. Yet Hugh could scarcely have told one story without telling the other. The latter was the complement-in some sort the justi- fication-of the. former. And he was free ; not, after all, by his own act so much as by Virginia's. Still, Marian was faithful as she had ever been, in spite of the strongest temptations, to her convictions of right and of maidenly propriety. She had been tried before, and did not hesitate ; she did not falter now. v "Listen, Hugh," she said, as she disengaged herself from his eager arms, and, standing apart, with a pale face, but a steady voice, made answer to his passionate speeches, c"I have been to blame-unwittingly, perhaps, but still in part to blame for the miscarriage of your engagement with Virginia. I will not put myself in the position of hastening to fill a place I have helped to vacate. Nor do I think promises on either side exchanged in the first moments of our meeting are, under all the circumstances, either delicate or proper. Therefore, I cannot give the pledge you ask of me." "Your heart is entangled elsewhere!" he cried, hotly. "I re- member now; even at the ball I heard you were engaged. Your guardian's friend-Mr. Clyde-told me as much." ' He must have been in jest. Or he referred, perhaps, to the dance for which I was indeed engaged-to himself. The pledge I refuse to give to you I have given to no other." "But, Marian, this is mere trifling; trifling with the happi- ness of both; for I feel-I know that I am not quite indifferent to you. Speak; is not this true, Marian? I charge you to answer, and answer faithfully." A bright blush rose slowly over the girl's face, until it crim- soned even to. her glossy hair. "It is true, Gifford." "And yet," he exclaimed joyfully, "yet you will make no pledge-will plight no troth?"   "Hear me," answered Marian, " and if you can with patience. I am not quite satisfied either with you or with myself; and I think neither will be the worse for an ordeal which for your -part you have said you would not shrink from." "I do not understand."   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        349 "You. have said that, even if ignorant of the real object of such an ordeal, it could yet, if your love were sincere, make no difference in it. I propose just such an one." "I am still in the dark." "The measure you offered to Virginia Chester I would now mete out to you-and to myself as well. You should not shrink from this application of the golden rule--this test of constancy- according to. your own practice, your own showing." "You would have me wait for a year?" said Hugh, with a darkened face, as he began to perceive her drift. "I would prefer it. Nay, I will make no other promise. Let twelve months roll by, each to be free as Virginia was to set aside the pact at will. If, at their expiration, your mind be unchanged, you will find mine no less so." "These are hard terms, Marian." "If you say so, you will make me doubt you. Is it agreed?" ( And I cannot but think unnecessary ones. If we love each' other, and surely we do, and if wrong is done to no living crea- ture beside, and surely none is done, .why so cruel a delay?" "And if you shrink from it," said Marian, rather proudly, ; you must not expect me to rate your constancy very high ; in which case, am I not right to impose the delay?" "Enough, Marian. Let it be as you will. Let it be my pur- gation for the wrong, if wrong it was, inflicted upon Virginia. I shall at least have earned your forgiveness for that sin." "And for all others, Hugh. Do not think this probation agreeableto me. Far from it. I will conf'ess so much. But it seems to me right; and I would fain you thought so too." "I'll try, Marial ; and indeed what is right to you cannot be otherwise to me. Only I have learned, and that so well that one lesson to the contrary cannot undo the conviction, that it is far harder for man to wait than for woman." "Heresy! Unless you mean he is less likely to be faithful." "Wait and see!" CtHAPTEt XI. MR. DYCE PARAPET walked down Fifth Avenue in no very con- tented frame of mind. His gloves were of as cool a gray, his boots of as radiant a jet, his trousers of as spotless a pearl, his   coat of as glossy a-black, his neckcloth of as delicate a white as they usually were when he walked down Fifth Avenue of a morning. But his face was by no means of as smooth and be- nignant an expression as it was its custom to be. For perhaps the eighth or tenthtime in his life, Mr. Parapet was ruffled; ruf- fled when another would have been very angry. A calamity had befallen his house. A blot threatened to affix its permanent stain upon his escutcheon. A necessity for prompt action to avert the threatened evil had arisen. To be at once annoyed and com- pelled to exhibit energy was a complication of misfortune whose effects upon Mr. Parapet may be measured by its singularity. Either grievance alone he would have endured with his ordinary chronic placidity. The two together were sufficient to ruffle its surface. Clinton Parapet-the cream of cream of youths, only sons, and Parapetian representatives--had been seen driving in the park that beautiful but ineligible heiress of the cotton trade-Miss Flora Dimity. Not in the dusky evening, with a quiet equipage stealing along out-of-the-way roads, as if such an atrocity were to be committed at all, eason and good sense would counsel; but with a pair of slashing grays, known to the whole town, an open carriage through the most frequented drives of the Central Park, at the hour of high fashion, flaunting up and down in the eyes of the chattering world as if in veriest defiance to give his crime the widest publicity. "Just now, too," moaned Mrs. Parapet, " when that odious man's odious new shop is the talk of the whole country; when its height and its breadth, and its length, and the number of its simpering shopmen, and the yards of stuff they sell in a day are published in every newspaper! It seems as if when young men do commit a blunder, it must needs be advertised in the most conspicuous and objectionable of settings." "I May there not be, after all, some mistake ." suggested Mr. Parapet, soothingly. "There are more than one pair of grays- many young men not unlike Clinton. You informant   " "Alas! The best authority! Indeed half a dozen of them! Mrs. Crespigny, with her eye of lynx and heart of steel, drove here the same afternoon-made a pretence of returning a volume of Edith's-and congratulated us incidentally as she was leaving! She was perfectly delighted, bursting with the thing during her whole visit, and her artistic self-control, putting it off for an exit speech, was enough to make one go mad! Afterwards the Van Tassels called ; they were simply angry, on Henrietta's account you know, and wondered whether it was the last Parisian mode ^  *.  yJ   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       351 to drive out one's tradespeople's daughters. And Edith heard it from the Slammerhorns at the opera; they were neither delighted nor angry, but sorry ; pitied her beautifully, she said; I   and asked when it was to be, andlcould it not be stopped in some way. They had heard that busybody, De Talbot Jones, tell it to Mrs. Madison Custard; and when people like that, who are on the- fringe of society, get hold of a story, you know what it means! How I grieve that Clinton oame from abroad!"     "Unfortunate, truly unfortunate," sympathized Mr. Parapet, caressing his white hands as if some one had slighted or injured them, and they needed a little petting to make them come round. "Unfortunate? It's irreparable, almost. The next thing will be a paragraph in the Sphere or the Optimist. Really, if it is not one thing, it appears it must be another. How we have felicitated ourselves on Clinton's freedom from vice, even from the lighter dissipations common to his years, and compared him to others less fortunate! But of what avail is it to escape having delirium tremens like young Schindy, or not to forge on a grandfather, like Tom Creasy, if a son is to turn out like this! A Cranstoun I might have endured. At a Slammerhorn I might have smiled in silence. Even with a Van Boorem my chagrin, though sharp, might have been smothered. But a'a--DIMTY!" "But, my dear," said her husband, still affectionately consol- ing his hands, " since what's done cannot be undone---" "Can it not? It strikes me that is precisely the point. I am impressed with a conviction that it is to undo we ought, or rather you ought, to bend all your energies. Think of Edith's prospects dragged down by a Dimity! Think of a cotton woof spun into the family line! Distinctly, whatis done must be undone!" "But how? The young people have been seen driving in the park. Voila tout. It's very sad, but I see no way of undo- ing it." "Tut! the drive is nothing save as the index and prologue of what has preceded, and may follow it. We must seize on the occasion to reverse any previous understanding, to forestall any injurious consequences. Either Clinton must pledge himself to see Flora Dimity no more, or he must at once be sent abroad." "You remember, of course, that he is his own master?" "Nominally and technically he is so; but it cannot be that this girl has gained such a hold in two weeks as to induce him to set at defiance both your authority and mine. To interpose them at least is better than mere quiescence, even should they prove to have been interposed in vain."   352        MAIpA ROOKE; OR, "I'll tell you what I'll do," said Mr. Parapet, with a happy inspiration,; ' I'll speak to Clinton of course, and do what I can in the way of direct expostulation; but I'll also get young Gif- ford to attack him. Sensible fellow young Gifford, very. Has sharp perceptions and remarkably sound views for his years, and Clinton thinks more of him than of any other young man of his acquaintance." Mrs. Parapet thought well of the idea. Gifford was a sort of person who would see at a glance the horrible incongruity of an alliance between a Parapet and a Dimity. He was one of those who, if they cannot exactly boast pur sang themselves, have very just notions of its quality and responsibility. A young man him- self, he could, with a good grace, point out the grave distinc- tion which lies between venial flirtation and criminal matrimony. Moreover, his great respect for Edith would surely prompt him to do all in his power to prevent a step which would be at once so painful to her feelings, and so damaging to her future pros- pects. Gifford was, therefore, elected member of the privy council, which was to circumvent the ambitious scheme imputed to pretty Flora Dimity. So, when Mr. Parapet got into Union Square and saw Hugh standing and looking up disconsolately at the equestrian figure of the father of his country, he hooked the young gentleman incon- tinently by the arm, and led him away captive to his club. The meeting was apropos, since Hugh -had some advice to ask as well as to give; and Mr. Parapet was the first of whom he had re- solved to seek it. Our hero heard the statement of his companion with the grav- ity befitting a councillor received into the confidence of a rever- end senior, and the caution suitable to the fidelity due to his friendship for a son. "C Mere flirtation and nonsense, my dear sir," was the consola- tory opinion he felt justified in expressing. "The young lady is excessively pretty, and Clinton is amazingly fond of pretty girls. But I'm quite sure he has no serious intentions." ' I'm pleased to hear you say so, and Mrs. Parapet would be delighted. But, pray how can you be sure of such a thing?" "Ah, well, that may be a facon de parler perhaps. I mean to imply the conviction that were Clinton's sentiments of a graver, character, they would find no such public expression." "Yet he should be cautious to avoid the imputation of any- thing dishonorable." "My dear sir, he is your son, and I'm confident if he thought his conduct obnoxious to such a censure, a word or two would   i. TTHE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.                33 set him right. Of course a young gentleman could not do such things abroad as he does with Miss Dimity. But if American girls will walk and drive and go to the opera without duennas, and the custom is permitted by society, Clinton is not individu- ally responsible for it." t You believe then " "That he is merely doing what inclination suggests when no particular reason occurs for declining to gratify it. The young lady is perhaps a little flattered, and encourages him quite as much as she ought."  . "I hope you'll say as much to Mrs. Parapet." "With much pleasure, if you think it will be in the least gratifying to her." "It certainly will be. But you see she will draw this distinc- tion; that what Miss Dimity is doing would not be done by young women of Clinton's own set, and that her own will put only one construction upon it, in which the world might gener- ally uphold them, and thus he may become awkwardly entangled before he has even considered what he is about." "You will speak with him, however, and point out this dan- ger a, "At once; and, if you don't object, I would ask you to do the same. The friend may well put such a case in a more tell- ing light than the father." "He might possibly have the credit of being quite disinter- ested." "Precisely. But there is a dilemma which may prove im- practicable for either. Suppose, after all, his heart should be touched; suppose he has been infatuated to such a degree as to commit himself?" . "Really," laughed Gifford, "I don't think a few dances and promenades, or even this unfortunate drive in the park, can fairly justify so terrible a suspicion. Yet, even were it to prove well founded-, I should not despair." "You. have a panacea for even such an evil?" "I have found it so. You are consulting one, I may observe, not entirely without experience. If matters have gone such a length, I: would counsel, not direct opposition, but masterly in-  activity. Get Clinton to agree to a year's delay: he might chafe, but the hope of condoning the main offence would prob- ! ably induce his acquiescence; and in that year, you may depend, ;i sir, one of the contracting parties will find reason or excuse to escape the bond."                        ' He spoke rather bitterly, and his companion looked at him   854        MARIA  ROQKE; OR, with surprise, excited rather by the tone than the words. Hugh was smarting under an infliction, which he was not, at the mo- ment, unwilling to extend to somebody else, while he was hon- estly satisfied that his previous experience justified the soundness of his advice. Mr. Parapet had too much delicacy to remark upon the feeling of his speech, so he merely thanked Hugh, saying he had no doubt but in the majority of instances such a resource would prove invaluable, and he would certainly put it to the proof in case of need, and reminding him that he had promised to afford some counsel in turn, by way of quid pro quo. Hugh's matter was simply this. He had some thoughts, as Mr. Parapet knew, of embarking in political life. Occupation of one sort or another, he considered essential to keep his mind fi'om rusting; and to serve the country seemed as laudable an ambition as could be cherished. He would be happy of any hints which Mr. Parapet's experience might enable him to fur- nish. Mr. Clyde had been good enough to give him much val- uable information; but, on a subject so many-sided, a multitude of counsels begat wisdom. Hlugh would be glad of Mr. Para- pet's in a general way, and of any details he could supply of the character and uses of-Mr. Salathiel Doke in a particular one. The subject was one which Mr. Parapet could discuss con spirito, if not con amore. "Dy dear young friend,': he said, feelingly, " who toucheth pitch, shall be defiled. If you can achieve something thereby, whose blessing overtops the curse of defilement, profit may come, although I fail to see it. If to spend your substance for the delectation of an unclean rabble; to breathe an atmosphere fla- vored of humanity unwashed, onions and bad whiskey; to listen always to foul oaths unreproved, envy and uncharitableness toward all better educated, better dressed, or indeed dferent in any respect from the rabble itself; to sit under the wing of spread eagles barbarously caricatured to suit the taste of that rabble; to serve it for a constituency, with Salathiel Dokes to interpret its lofty behests; if to do these things be desirable, or if the end sanctify the means-for there is but one road, and that no royal one-become a politician. "If to be drawn gradually but irresistibly into the habit of talking slang instead of English-exaSgerated and hybrid fis- tian instead of pure and simple idiom-lthe habit of lowering yourself on principle to please the tastes and prejudices of the vulgar ; of pretending to be coarse and commonplace, because   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         355 the bulk of your audience are so, until the habit becomes second nature, and you sink to the same level-become a politician. ( You heard a politician speak here the other night-a poli- tician who is also an orator. The occasion was a solemn one- the death of an eminent public servant and benefactor---and the audience mightheconsidereda selectone. I rememberthe speaker as a youth; and he hadthe education, if not altogether the man- ners, of a gentleman. But to hear him, even under such circum- stances, was to show what the habit I cite may do in the way of 'deterioration. What incredible bombast was his speech I  How turgid the diction-how puffed by superfluous and unmeaning adjectives! How preposterous the metaphors-learned by rote on an hundred stumps to tickle the ears of the groundlings! How inconclusive and irrelevant was his argument, and how laughably magniloquent and unscholarly the peroration! The speech was just fit for a grog-shop gathering to nominate an Irish councilman for the Sixth ward; and yet Mr.  ranks as one of the leaders of his party, and, you may depend upon it, is unconscious of his solecisms--his sins against taste and pro- priety. It is in the nature of this disease that its victims are utterly ignorant of its ravages. Tell them it exists, and they will tell you you are a fool. They resent the imputation to the last degree, and are quite sincere in their incredulity; and they are not entirely wrong, so far as censure attaches to their malady, since it is the product, not of individuals, but of a system."' With these and more opinions of a similar uncompromising character did Mr. Parapet regale the ears of Gifford; winding up with the, for him, rather extreme statement that he believed Mr. Doke to be one of the most arrant scoundrels who went un- hung. Nevertheless, he added, if Hugh were absolutely deter- mined upon entering the thorny paths so deprecated, Doke could be made, beyond doubt, very useful as a tool. He was celebrated as having done the dirty work for divers eminent Officials, whilst they were climbing to the dizzy heights they now occupied; and, if unscrupulousness were a virtue, it could not be gainsaid that he possessed that, at least, if no other. He had the ear of many who would dislike to be publicly mentioned in connection with his name; for even Mr. Clyde, who certainly would not associate with him, had employed the man politically. Finally, he might be fitly regarded as a fair specimen of the people whom an aspirant for political honors must make up his mind to see and hear a good deal of; so that, on the whole, Gifford might as well get accustomed to the species in his per- son as in another's.   856         MARIAN. ROOIKE; OR, All this was more disagreeable to our hero than he cared to acknowledge.  Somewhat later in his career, he would not have had to learn that a gentleman of his mentor's order was the last to whom he should apply for an account of the favorable side of political life. He was no more likely to speak well of the existing order - of things than an unenfranchised Englishman who sees no chance of rising to the dignity of a ten-pounder. Indeed, the analogy could be carried to very interesting con- clusions as regards these twin classes, thus excluded on their re- spective sides of the Atlantic friom all share in the business of the state. Practically, their positions are the same. The highest class in America and the lowest class in England are in the like category of discontented or apathetic exclusion; and, however difficult it may be for philosophers to suggest the remedies, it is easy enough to point out the evils which both systems entail. Neither are compatible with that political utopia which Hugh Gifford, like many embryo statesmen, was fond to dream of; but he might have been wiser than to seek either for sympathy or enthusiastic patriotism in a Parapet-and, happily, in time, he grew to be so. CHAPITEK   XII. RUMOR, with her thousand tongues, painted our hero far richer than he was. Unknown in the haunts of trade, or the walks of professional life, and a stranger even in social circles, there was a mystery about his antecedents well calculated to sharpen wonder, and give a zest to speculation. The sponsorship of ,thk Parapets had assured his position, and an expenditure, lib- eral, yet tasteful, attendant on his taking up a settled residence in the metropolis, did its share in attracting attention and re- mark. As the news spread abroad of the new Croesus who had come to dwell among them, the keen-witted, the parasitical, and the grovelling, gathered together to profit by, to fasten to, and to worship him. Greatly to his surprise-for although he fancied he knew much of the world, HHugh was yet but a young man-he found himself' quite overwhelmed with compliments and attentions. The letters from tradespeople; cringing proffers of unlimited credit from disinterested tailors, and saddlers, and jockeys,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        357 were sufficiently explicable, and he was quite old enough to see through them. But the cut flowers on his breakfast-table every morning; the pressing invitations sent daily by sumptuous oc- cupants of palaces; the requests for the honor of his company, and the favor of his patronage, from societies and corporations having some name in the world; the cordial proposals to attend to his Wall street business, free of all expense, by fascinating brokers, who seemed to devote themselves exclusively to such benevolently unrequited labors; the private boxes, mysteriously offered at his shrine by rival managers; the profusion .of nods and becks, and wreathed smiles from hosts of fair ones, to whom he had barely been presented; and, finally, the outrageous puffs of his person, carriage, horses, mansion, and everything that was his, which, to his confusion, appeared one morning in the Optimist, were not so readily seen through or appreciated. 'He's a millionaire!" whispered Mr. Doke into the greedy ears of the Sachems of Gam-mony; and "He's a millionaire!" echoed in joyful unison through the ancient wigwam where they sat in council. "But," added Salathiel, darkly, "no capers, mind! Pm a workin' of him, I am; and I'll cook any duck that comes between me and my game before killin' time." And Sa- chems, preferring, as a rule, to cook, rather than be cooked, grim- ly awaited the event, with the consolatory hope of sharing in the feast when it should be served. "He's a millionaire!" muttered Gollop, the famous speculator, of the heavy firm of Ingott and Gollop, and, as he himself said in the way of boast, one of Mr. Clyde's right-hand men in great political enterprises.  "Wonder how much I could get him to take of the Great Consolidated Horse Railway! Wonder how much he's really worth any' how! Wonder what's his bait: politics, gals, hosses, or buildin'!" FIor Gollop was re- ligiously persuaded that every man on earth had, what he termed, his " bait;" which, like the shining fly to a trout, or toasted cheese to a mouse, was certain, sooner or later, to lure him to his ruin. ". He's a millionaire!" murmured Mrs. Cranstoun, with the marriageable daughter, who, after a poor season or so more, would be no longer marriageable.  "Heavens! if he would only take a fancy to dear Julia! Surely she doesn't look more than eight-and-twenty by gas-light; and they say he's so sensi-- ble and well read, perferring sound, good sense, and solid do- mestic virtues to mere prettiness. Ah, me! If I could only see those giggling girls, who call her a skinny old maid, turn green with envy as she dashed by in that love of a coupe, to   358         MARIAN' ROOKE; OR, that sweet house of his with the brown stone caryatides, I do believe I could die in peace! But how to manage it, oh! how to manage it!" "He's a millionaire!" pondered Mr. Clyde, as he flew by the Erie Railway into the heart of the Sate, and made little entries and calculations on the tablets be habitually carried. "If I put him in by-and-by for one of the River Counties, bringing him forward, as he develops, into the line of promotion; what, with his brain and that conscientiousness which is sure to keep him grateful, I might--hum-well, we'll see." "He's a millionaire!" breathed the reverential rabble, as the Gifford coupe dashed up Broadway, while the hotel loafers, the actors lounging about the doors of theatres, and the red-eyed gamblers looked after it with desire. "Brought back five hun- dred thousand dollars in sacks of gold dust from California, and doubled it in Wall Street the week after." "One of the ablest young men in our great country, sir. Made the tour of Europe in six weeks, at' an -expense of six thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars a week, not countin' drinks." "Don't chew none, but smokes like sin. Half' the gals on Fifth Avenue are fightin' for him." "Sphinx is a paintin' of him, as a Roman emperor with a wreath of laurel on." "Gollop and him are going into partnership toobuy Staten Island, and turn it into Cremorne Gar- dens." "Is that so?" "Yer lie!" ' Shaver told me, anyhow. Only Live Oak George and old Corneel Gingergilt fitas to who should hev the lion's share." ,' Git aout." "Them hosses cost one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four dollars and sixty-eight cents." "Show!" "Jube Cinnamon told me, and he had 'em a week on the Centreville course, slickin' up for market. IlHe says this here ghost's income is five hundred dollars a day!" "' Gas! I don't swaller that." "(Bill Astor, and sech, chalk a heap higher 'n that!" "Yes ; and how long was old John Jacob a makin' of it?" "No one ever heerd o' this man afore. I b'lieve he's some skunk of a lord playin' possum on the upper ten! Stuck up lookin' cuss anyhow." Gifford would have been more than man had he remained utterly insensible to the incense which was perpetually burning below and around him. It is not singular that he grew to mis- take some- of the adulation which his reputed wealth commanded for genuine appreciation of his personal qualities. Alas! Which of us are so strong as to be sure that, similarly circumstanced, we ]ould be more clear-headed? Letthose who are doubtful on His point, seek the confidence, if they can get it, of some one who has suddenly acquired wealth, and is now so fortunate as to   THE QUEST FOR FOR TUNE.        359 be able to look back calmly and measure its immediate effects and consequences.                  ; Little by little the aspirations for greatness, for usefulness to his fellow-men, which had formerly been clear, strong, and sharply defined in Hugh's mind, became confused, weak, and blurred. Why should one who was so much respected and es- teemed labor to win respect and esteem? Why run races when the goal is already won? True, the ignorant people he had form- erly associated with did not reverence him so highly as the more clear-sighted community he now lived among; but that was their lack of education and consequent appreciation, poor things. It could not be expected that svuch as they could comprehend the exceptional merits of an uncommon character-understand the value of attainments to which they were utter strangers. But there was Marian--she surely could understand and ap- preciate him-there could be no doubt of her capacity ; and yet a little while ago she had censured him ; and more than once since, she had gently implied dissatisfaction with the course he was pursuing. She thought- it very different, this life of fes- tivity, pride, and indulgence, from the ideal life of progressive usefulness and resolutely developed faculties she had sketched out for him of old, at Armstrong's Bar ; and she said so. This contrast between the admiration, the felicitations of others, and Marian's quiet, thoughtful disapproval, jarred on Gifford's self- esteem ; and at almost that very time when he was wild with joy at having found her-the time when the acme of human happi- ness, as he once esteemed it, was within his reach-he was weak enough to feel pained by the noble girl's frank sincerity, and to foster an estrangement which was the merest offspring of vanity. This grew not up in a day. Its growth was slow, sinister, and gradual. The old love was too strong to be readily shaken, and there were many occasions when it swept through Hugh's heart with all its wonted power, overthrowing and putting to flight all meaner thoughts, or unworthy jealousies which stood in its way.  But the miserable effect of his wealth was ever present. When he. left Marian, who told him he was a weak, l erring mortal, with good capacities, but much to achieve, he went forth to meet a crowd of worshippers, who hailed him as a de- migod, and filled his path with flowers of praise and his ears with poems of admiration.  And then, alas! for the tender mon- itress who, self-abnegatory as she was, thought only of her lover's good, thus contending with the merciless worldlings who thought only of their own. One morning Gifford received two letters which brought many   360         MARIAN ROOKE; OR) an old memory up before him, which made him think of his childhood, of his boyhood, of his earlier manhood, its struggles, its temptations, its romantic success ; more than all, it recalled the hours passed at Armstrong's Bar with her who had won his heart there. But the letters shall speak for themselves. DR. DAVID LANDALE TO HUGH GIFFORD. "Armstrong's Bar, Oct. 14th, 1852. el "I am just back here taking a look at the old place before coming east. Lion's Dale has been the making of our pockets; but it's a wild, uncouth place, compared with this. There is quite a village here now-shops with painted signs; a big hotel with Corinthian columns (cut out in profile of deal boards) ; two bil- liard-rooms, and twenty-three new houses. Also seven flumes running to the Canon and pumping the poor old stream nearly dry in hot weather. And the old shanty still stands, with a wooden roof instead of a cotton one, and "Post Office" in gilt letters just under the eaves. Of course there are many more folks here than of yore ; but it's not a bit pleasanter for all that. "The solitude that used to be so soothing and grateful; the woods so silent, and the banks of the streams and tarns where we wandered like chiefs who had shut out all the world beside; the pretty spots where we used to idle away the leisure, schem- ing what we'd all do when we got rich; all these are made common and vulgar now by the coarse crowd who see beauty only where gold is, and leave traces wherever they go enough to scare away the fairies forever. You'll remember the bit of a lake among the hills where Luke made the seat after the lassie left? I was there yesterday; and the green sod was crushed with heavy feet, and strewn with broken whiskey bottles and pipes, and fragments of tin cans and old bones. It's well we're all gone or going, for the spot will never again be the spot that it was. "Well, you'd like to know how we've fared. Briefly, then, we have about fifty thousand each to his share; and by staying a couple of years more might have the double of it. But for me, I am weary of the life. There are things dearer in the world than'gold getting; and time rolls on and on without making me younger. For one who's neither kith nor kin, ten thousand pounds may keep the wolf from the door, and some- thing better; so that I've no fears on that score, and am ready   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        361 to cry content while yet free of fever or ague to poison the days to come. "The old people are well and cheerful. Having got on so well, they are now heart-set for the old family place, a farm where Seth was born, not far from New York on the banks of the Connecticut. And pretty Kitty has made up her mind to be Mrs. Railes-she has put it off once or twice-after they get home, she savs, and have time to turn round. - As to Dick he worships the ground she. treads on. I don't think he ever thought so much of any creature or thing on earth-except the theodolite-and I believe he says his prayers to that every morning. "For Luke, he is more studious and quiet-like than ever. He's always done his share of the work and more; but he's done something else besides. He's taught himself a good bit of the Latin grammar, and with a word from me now and then, is well on with the mathematics. I've taught him the principles of plane surveying and levelling, and he's quite up to trigono- metry and the use of logarithms. Last time I went to San Francisco I bought him a Legendre, by way of Euclid, you know, and a Bourdon's algebra; so that you'll guess he's im- proving his mind. "And when I was at the town--a wonderfully different town from what you saw it-I heard somewhat of other friends of ours. Mr. Sloper has become enormously rich, and is soon to return to the Atlantic States. He made ten thousand dollars out of the great fire; and it is said, has doubled it about once a month ever since. Judge Skewer killed two men in a gam- bling row, making five homicides he has committed in all, and had to fly to the'mountains, where he is now reputed to be con- cealed.  Of the two other gentlemen who dined with us at the Cafe Lafayette, Mr. Gallus was hung last summer by the Vigi- lance Committee, and Ir. McCracken is Mayor of Sonora. "Mr. Du Solle, the Southerner, whom we saw leave so much at the gaming house, lost two hundred thousand dollars shortly afterwards, and blew his brains out one fine morning at his lodgings in the Occidental Hotel. What is very singular is, that I happened to sleep at the hotel that night, and was sum- moned, as the nearest surgeon at hand, to see the man. For a few moments I  was alone with the body, and I found in an inner pocket of his waistcoat next his heart a very striking min- iature of Miss Marian Rooke. There could be no mistake, for the-likeness was too life-like. It struck me that, considering all things, as a friend of the young lady, I was justified in taking 16   362         MAEIAN ROOKE; OR, this picture; and I have kept it by me without mention to any one, to return to herself' when I see her. (' If it had not been for the barking of Lion hard by, just now, I do believe I should have been thoughtless enough. not to name him or his master. They are both well ; but do you know I think both Ike and the dog took your going very much to heart. It was many a day after that they went spooking about as if to find you in some out of the way place, /the dog smelling and the man peering; however, they're both greatly creatures of habit, and are getting to be much the same as ever. They will be brought home to the East by the Armstrongs, and may be the new change will do the poor laddie some good. "I might write many more details, but then I'd have nothing to interest you when we meet at New York, which, at my pres- ent thinking, may be in three months' time; that is, provided you're not away when we arrive. So I'll just close this with wishing you-a continuance of the health you always had, and of the fortune begun at Lion's Dale. "DAVID LANDALE. "P. S,-They all tell me to put in their good wishes, and hope soon to see you, and that you have seen ' Mary Anne.' And if I were you, having leisure in abundance, I'd try to un- earth and bring to grief that never-to-be-sufficiently-execrated, and yet most facetious scoundrel-' Colonel' Panghurn." JOHN CHESTER TO HUGI- GIFFORD. "Court Street, Boston, Nov. 15th. "My dear friend Hugh,-;What a world this is! Only three days ago I heard from an old and attached acquaintance of yours of your great-although I am sure deserved-good fortune; that you were living in style at New York, keeping your carriage, and holding your head as high as the best. IlHov time flies! It seems only yesterday since you and I were clerks together in Old Tarbox's office, where we were such dear old friends-were we not, Hugh --and laid the foundations of that friendship which, I trust, is to last always. "It is pleasant, dear friend, as the montL J come round and we feel ourselves going further and further from boyhood, to feel that we still preserve some of boyhood's friendships to aid each other in lightening the burthen of life and to console each other under its afflictions. Watching your course, as I have ever done, with the solicitude-shall I say of a brother?-natural to the   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       363 circumstances; for although Gaycow supplanted you with Vir- ginia he never could fill your place with me--with the solicitude, then, of a brother, I need not say how delighted I am by the prosperity which you have attained, and which will enable you to carry out what-was always your prime desire-the diffusion of happiness among those around you. "i The news of your good fortune has spread rapidly among your friends here, and all are-anxious to see and congratulate you. They appear to be surprised that you should not settle in Boston instead of New York, as, of course, there cannot be a comparison between the two cities in point of society and cul- ture, and they would have thought the memory of the happy hours you have spent in old Trimountain-to say nothing of the shades of Harvard--would have led you to turn with yearning to the scenes of your childhood. But I tell them it is wrong to judge you without a hearing, and that it is quite improbable so prudent and sensible a man as Hugh Gifford has ever been,would act in this or any other matter without due reflection and suffi- cient cause. 'I Father was here yesterday, well and hearty. I have just been conducting a little suit of his against the Pennifeathers, the final result of an old standing quarrel about metes and bounds, the farms you know being contiguous. He says Canaan is over- building itself, trying to compete with the new houses of the Gaycows and Cuticle Flips. When I told him of your great accession of riches and honors, father's face fell a little; not, you will do him the justice to believe, that he was sorry for your i prosperity,- but because he thought perhaps. of how good a chance had been missed by Virginia. Ah, Hugh! we must make allowances for these little weaknesses. Perhaps it is true that the generation which is passing away was over fond of money, over ready to sacrifice all else to its acquisition; and there may have been, probably were, excuses for them. It is not because we of the generation of to-day have outlived that particular weakness or defect of money-worship, that we are to hold our- selves without sin. It should rather teach us humility; teach us how by increased kindness and lenity, and consideration for the interests and feelings of others, we may at once mitigate the faults of our brethren and palliate our own. "Business is good. -My own prospects I consider to be sub- stantial and improving. They are putting up a great number of nice new houses at the South End, and I think of buying, I keep a sharp lookout on the registry of mortgages, knowing that when so much is borrowed to put in bricks and mortar,   364        MARTAN. ROOKE ; OR, sooner than the legitimate increase of population warrants it, somebody must sacrifice. They have repainted the State House, and the dome looks quite a different object, provoking much remark. I should like some more New York business than I have, and will not apologize (knowing you would laugh at that) for enclosing the names of some firms of your city whose business here I would like to get. "Do write me all the particulars of your wonderful success, as to how it came about, and so on. If you could run on here, although only for a day, I am certain you would enjoy it much, and your friends would receive you with open arms. It would have quite touched you to hear how some of the dear old chaps at Cambridge took the news of your rise in the world-it would indeed.\ But I am sure, dear Hugh, that none could rejoice more heartily in so happy a circumstance than does "Your affectionate old friend, "JOHN CHESTER. "P. S. Pray write soon, as I am most anxious to hear from you; would come on, if not so very busy." "Talk of fame!" said Mr. Doke, exultingly; "' look at that air!"And Hugh looked at that' airl; and, to do him justice, blushed very deeply in so doing. He was not so far gone as to be unable to see the absurdity of the thing; but how could he help it? How could he possibly tell that that eccentric genius, Sphinx, would not only have finished his portrait in time, but would have it hanging in that barefaced way on the walls of the Academy the first day it opened its doors? Hugh had been cajoled into sitting, not so much out of vanity as good nature ; and not as a Roman emperor but as that scarce- ly less-abused individual-" a, gentleman." He met Sphinx at Wirt Pinckney's, and had been somewhat puzzled and embar- rassed by the great artist staring fixedly at him in what he thought a rather ironical manner for a long time, and just as he began to think of asking him what he meant, bursting into a  very audible aside to his next neighbor of, "What a magnifi- j cent head!" "You must sit to Sphinx," said Wirt Pinckney, a little while after. "I? What for?" "Oh, everybody does, just now ; that is, everybody who can get him. He's very cran ky--a genius you know-and won't paint people he doesn't fancy. He's struck by you, and will take great pains, so you must sit to him by all means."   THE QUEST FPO F'ORTUNE.       365  "He's the fashion," said Edith Parapet, to whom our hero re- ferred the point, " so, of course, for the moment, is perfection. To be painted by him is to gain distinction, of a certain sort. It doesn't suit usp but " Gifford knew very well how to fill up the sentence. Eldon Clyde filled it up in a different manner. "There is no more ef- fectual way," he affirmed, " of being well advertised, at a small expense, and without too pointed an ostentation. Veryfew, com- paratively, go to the Academy, but all read the papers; and the papers that know least about painting always print most about it; and of course they are the ones that reach the masses. By all means let Sphinx paint you ; he'll make you a great man be- fore you know it." So Sphinx painted him. The artist was fond of working by surprises. He liked to dawdle over his work for weeks and ! months as a rule, but now and then he would produce a picture with really astonishing celerity. Gifford was very much talked about just then, and it was quite in the painter's way to finish him in his express-train style, and drive him into the Exhibition. So there was Hugh on the walls, and on the line, rather too hasty, rather too Byronic and Corsairish, but still making a very effec- tive picture, undeniably like, and incontestably handsome. And there was a rapt and  admiring Crowd, chiefly of ladies, ex- claiming and rustling and buzzing before it. And there was Mr. Salathiel Doke, like a low-living Mephistopheles as he was, doing his utmost to excite and pander to the lowest passions of Hugh's nature.  According to him, there was something signally meri- torious in having a slightly-flattered effigyhung up in this manner in the public eye, a prima facie evidence which, like certain foreign orders, was to be accepted as token irrefragable of. desert. It was the outward and visible sign of what Doke, and all such as Doke most dutifully worship-success; the why and wherefore had no more interest to him than the coral insects would have after they had once piled up what he would call the real estate which now towered ostentatiously above the level of the sea. ': Talk of fame!" repeated Mr. Doke, while the Vyses, and the Dimitys, and the Slammerhorns, and the Cranstouns, and the marriageable daughters, and the manoeuvring mammas, stumbled over one another, and tore out each other's gathers, in the in- tensity of the anxiety to get near the costly image.-"Look at that air!" What a galaxy of worthies! There was the general officer in full uniform, sword on one side, and what should be yardstick on the other; there was the last mayor, who made more money   366   i     MARTAN ROOKE; OR, while in office than any even of his most indefatigable predeces- sors ; there was old Dimity himself, looking sublimely conscious of the regal qualities of cotton and his ministers ; there was the great statesman, Doephase, who had taught the Northern people those sublime strokes of wisdom and policy whereby'thev had preserved their quiet and their dollars at the -cheap cost of their political morality and their manhood; there was Prodder- in an obscure corner by the way-with a torn shirt collar, arnd his hair on end, as if the artist had surprised him just after the application of some stimulating unguent ; there was Rullock, the great shipbuilder, who, to his honor, had grown to be what he was from a poor dock-laborer ; and there were divers military and naval heroes, who happily gave their professions the benefit of their undivided talents; together with a great variety of other worthies and notables, male and female, native and foreign. But none of these, however eminent or deserving, attracted the attention bestowed upon our young Crcesus. They were hopeless, and dried up as sources of favor or profit, while he was budding with the promise of auriferous benefits to come. "Dear Mr. Blobb," said Mrs. Cranstoun, " as you gentlemen of the press know everything-and make such a good use of your time in spreading it-do tell me how did he make his money?" "In strict secrecy, then, dearest Madam " "In strict secrecy, of course." "He found some of Blaclbeard's treasure concealed on one of the guano islands of the Spanish Main." "Bless my heart, how romantic!" "And among a heap of old parchments-fortunately preserved in a steel skull-cap worn by the pirate chief--he discovered a clue to the secret of Captain Kidd's buried wealth, which, as you know, has always been supposed to be hidden somewhere on the coast of New Jersey." "And he found that, too?" "Yes ; by excavating to the depth of nearly a hundred feet at Long Branch-having first purchased the farm where he knew the property lay concealed." "How very extraordinary!" "Is it not? But they say this is nothing to what he's made, since he came to New York, in stocks." !"Quite a Monte Cristo, is he not? But dear Julia thinks him the very ideal of Byron's Conrad!" "I'm sure Miss Julia herself is more like Medora! So deli- cate, so spirituelle as she is."   THE QUEST 'FOR FORTUNE.       367 a' Oh, Mr. Blobb!" "I hadn't the remotest idea," explained Gifford to Clinton Parapet, "that th he wretched thing would be here, or I wouldn't have come." "Tut, what does it matter? It helps Sphinx, who, his affec- tations aside, is a very good fellow, and does you no harm.. Look at that sketch of Millais. It seems absolutely surprised to find itself in such odd company." "I've got some chiny things," observed Mr. Doke, " screens and things, that look like that." "Oh, indeed! Then I advise you to get them hung in the Exhibition. The more the better of that sort. Come, Gifford, I want to show you something grand from a hand less known." The two young men strolled into another room, and stood be- forena very large painting, representing "The Heart of the Con- tinent." Hugh gazed at the picture for a long time, and sighed. "You seem struck by it?" said Clinton. "Yes; the scenery, the coloring, are very familiar to me." "Indeedcl? I thought it ideal, with correct details, of course." u I think not. No idea of an artist could equal what he would find ready-made to his hand, and no one could paint that coloring who had not seen it." "I perceive. Whoever had been on the spot would have no need to draw on his invention. Excuse me a moment, I want to say a civil word to old Dimity." Marian was to meet Hugh at the gallery, and in a few mo- ments she was standing beside him. "I had some trouble in getting through the next room," she observed, significantly. Hugh blushed again, and to the eyes. "It was quite without my assent, without my knowledge." "Pm glad of that; not that there's any real harm that I know of, only it seemed unlike you." "Unlike me," mused Hugh, as he took a rose-bud from his coat and offered it to Marian; "I suppose you mean, unlike as I was there," he added, pointing to the picture. Marian uttered an exclamation of surprise. "Why, it is the place, the very spot!"    c "You recognize it, then?" "Indeed I do. These hills; the little stream as it wound down the ravines between them; the bold, distant mountains. I can even see the knot of trees where Luke and Ike and Lion, awaited us before we crossed the stream; and, this-this surely is the site of our camp." ,/.   368         MARIAN ROOKE; ORS "It is very like it, certainly," said Hugh, smiling, 'but I suppose there are many similar spots." "It is the same," said Marian, her eyes riveted to the paint- ing, "always the same, will ever be so. Unlike ourselves, nature remains what she has been, now and for ever." "Do you think we change so much, then?" questioned the young man in a low voice. "Ask yourself, Hugh; are you now quite what you were when you stood there?" ' No; I am richer, older." "Happier?" "I ought to be, as you may fairly witness." "Would-would that we were there again!" "What! so poor so environed by dangers, so hopeless!" "Do not say 'so hopeless.: For the world was all before us; to ourselves the censure, if we chose not well. As for poverty, we lived and were happy; and, for dangers, what matter since heaven gave us strength and courage to surmount them? Ah, Hugh! is this crowded, jostling world, with its hypocrisy, its parasites, and its gold-worship, so much better than the free, open prairie, where man can grow as God made him, without the warps and stunts and deformities which come of over-crowd- ing; so that each is trying to overreach, or overshadow, or draw sustenance from his neighbor Is your life the happier for a society whose only measure of any man's merits corresponds with-its estimate of the length of his purse? Do you really feel, standing as we do face to face with those glorious plains, that existence in a stifling city is so much better, so much nobler, as to lead you to adopt it as of a permanent choice?" "If you dislike the town, dearest Marian, in good time we'll forsake and turn our backs upon it. Our friends are coming home from Armstrong's Bar, and we can again join their little circle. We will search out some charming rural home, where the evils of this'surging city shall never be seen or heard of; where Lion and Ike, and those simple-minded Armstrongs shall ' be our companions, in place of the fashionables you have grown so weary of; where you can imagine yourself to be once more on the -boundless plains; where--  "I beg yer parding, I'm sure," interrupted Doke, bustling up and apologizing to Marian with an awkward bow, "but I really must interdoose you to --Colonel Ingott-the great firm, you know, Ingott and Gollop. One o' the Sachems, you know," he added, to Gifford, in a lower key, "one of our great pillars, he is-wuth a million if he is a cent. He kin do more'n most   TITHE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.      369 any one 'ept Clyde to put ye through. He's been blowin' to Sphinx 'bout your pictur. He's goin' to sit to him himself as Atlas or somethink. Here he is, now. Colonel Ingott, have I. the pleasure? Allow me!  This is Mr. Gifford, the risin' millionaire I It really makes me feel good to interdoose you two gentlemen, I'm sure!" Pending the salutations, a long train of Colonel Inglott's fol- lowers completely encircled the group, and our hero found him- self, in a few moments, presented to an imposing array of poli- ticians, officials, and other dignitaries. It was not a place of customary resort with them, but Doke had managed, an im- promptu gathering, to give eclat and amplitude to the report which would appear in to-morrow's papers of Sphihx's chef d'oeuvre-the portrait of the future political candidate. The latter was quickly the -cynosure of an admiring band, at whose approach Marian stole away like a nymph from the advent of so many satyrs. Truly, Gifford's prospects were waxing brighter - and brighter. What with the substantial weight of his gold, and the judicious ministerings of Doke and his creatures--what I with the pencil of Sphinx, and the drums and hauthoys of rival mammas, he was fast rising into celebrity, if he did not al- together promise-as Eldon Clyde suggested -to become a great man before he knew it. I CHAPTER XIII. GOLD is a subtle and insidious destroyer of good resolutions. Dangerous under the most favorable circumstances, it is espe- cially so when it comes as the product of unexpected fortune rather than as that of accumulating and patient toil. Our hero wias quite right when he thought himself for many reasons un- suited to the peculiar social atmosphere in which his boyhood had been passed; but he was decidedly wrong when he thought, as he often did, that, because he could appreciate and despise the vulgar deference paid to money-the sordid uses to which it was 'a  put--he could, therefore, in the event of growing suddenly rich, become a model of self-command and beneficial dispensation. How he had longed for gold! TWhat images had he conjured up of the good he would do with it, of how it should be the step- ping-stone to his own moral and intellectual development, of i       .                ,       ,   370         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, how he would set an example to its grovelling worshippers, and teach them that man should be its master and not its slave. And yet now, surrounded by pretty women, by cunning speculators, by social drones, ever ready to batten on others' hives; led to credit by sheer force of iteration that he really must be a very remarkable person, and one to be looked up to, else wherefore had he grown to be what he was?-fetedand courted, and invited to a degree which would have been wearisome had it not been so very fIattering--our hero began to grow sadly like the pattern of Crcesus he had once thought so contemptible, to drink in for daily excitement the species of incense he had once so much despised. The tone of his moral nature began to be vitiated. The studies in constitutional law, political economy, and the like, which he had laid out for himself when he should once settle in New York, were first slighted, then postponed, finally thrust out of mind altogether and thought of no more. What need of all those things when people were constantly assuring him that he was so very clever? Especially what need when a con- trast with Doke and his fellows assured him that such know- ledge was at all events not necessary to a considerable degree of political success? If he had been poor and friendless, these attainments might be well enough as weapons to fight his way through the throng; but if the throng were ready to concede him a foremost place, merely on seeing the color of his honey, why waste strength in conquering them otherwise? Dearly as he loved Marian, too, the force of circumstances tended -to weaken the influence for good which she possess- ed over him. Long ago, when in a different frame of mind, he would have comprehended and admired the delicacy of her motives in deferring the period of their union. But now, en- vironed by flatterers and sycophants who cultivated the idea that his slightest -desires ought properly to be met by instant gratification, he reasoned himself into a half belief that those motives were based on a foundation as ignoble as mere caprice. They saw much of each other; but after a time he found it somewhat irritating when 'Marian questioned him as to the progress of his studies, the intended line of his political pur- suits, or otherwise reminded him that the life they had both contemplated as being that of his future was one of useful ac- tivity and not of luxurious sloth. Such irritation was slightly felt at first. It increased by slow and insensible degrees. It had grown to grave proportions almost before Gifford knew he   371 THE QUEST  FOR FORTUNE.  had felt it at all. And, by a sad fatality, it tended more and more to coolness and constraint as he grew richer. For he was day by day growing richer. Persuadedthat he had a talent for speculation, and craving an excitement which balls, and parties, and operas, and theatres could not entirely supply, he had gone into Wall Street, and by some of those in- explicalle turns of luck which occasionally attend the wildest and most ignorant ventures, he had in a few weeks nearly doubled his fortune. All he touched turned to gold; and the elation born of this fresh success did not increase his humility. People began to come to him for the use of his name to print rin lists ofcommittees corporations, and public meetings. We don't wish you to subscribe, Mr. Gifford; not even to trouble yourself to be present: we only solicit the use of your name." Hi-s name! Only the use of his name! The name which a few little months ago was that of a poor, unknown wanderer, whose very connections would gladly forget that it existed, was now a spell--a talisman-to enlist the confidence of the world and commland its respect. ; "You ain't a common kind of man, Mr. Gifford," quoth the tdelicate and scrupulous Doke. "You ain't no common man--- you're an INSTITUT "And Hugh actually began to believe that he was one. Presently there appeared in the Columns of the daily newspa- pers detailed accounts of his establishment, his horses, his income and whence it came, with all the embellishments and piquant exaggerations wherewith it is the custom of those fastious prints to regale their fastidious readers. "Nothin' lie it," ex- ulted Doke, 1' for makiin' a man known. Yet chance is twice as good on a ticket when yer name's buzzed round amongst the folks, especially when it's tacked on to accounts of things that costs so much money." Gifford soon found himself hand and glove with various great men, speculators, capitalists, stock company makers, and political sachems. Amonrg the latter was that eminent man, Demosthe- i  nes Ingott, the senior partner of the firm of Ingott and Gollolj. He was a person of better education and more cultivatedaddhess than Gollop; the latter being chiefly efficient as a very hard- headed, practical, and determined man, who could and would manage and control the lower order of politicians, with whom the firm had heavy dealings. For Ingott and Gollop were large contractors and indefatigable schemers; and it was perpetually necessary for them to .5 woirk" legislative and other pure-minded : and clean-handed public servants in the furtherance of their and clea, pe ...    I -asCXJU^ J1ka^ILN C j 1JURI schemes. 1r. Ingott was the aristocratic, Mr. Gollop the demo- cratic member. One pulled the wires which made rich men influential men, the puppets of the higher circles, dance; the other, those which controlled the vicious, the low, and conse- quently the numerous. i  On the first day that Mr. Ingott made our hero's acquaintance he proposed to him a share in a little speculation whereby Gif- ford found himself, to his astonishment, a thousand dollars the richer in less than a week. Ingott was always helping his friends to make money quickly, and always wanting to be paid in kind. Afterwards they had various confidential transactions; but they were nearly all of a character which worked to Hugh's profit; and he very reasonably congratulated himself on having met so sagacious and good-natured an adviser in his monetary affairs. Mr. Ingott's political connection was exceedingly powerful, and Gifford soon found that by pleasing him he could in all likelihood succeed in attaining almost any position to which in reason he might aspire. This view was fully indorsed by Eldon Clyde, of whom our hero took an early opportunity of making a confidant. "Ingott," said he, "is one of the smartest men in America. People talk against him, it is true: success always invites cal- umny. I've found him fair-dealing enough. However. it's only right to say that he would not dare attempt to overreach me; so that I may not be the best judge. He is very rich. That's be- yond question. As to Gollop, he's a coarse, illiterate fellow; but highly useful to Ingott, and completely under his thumb. Doke is an infernal rascal, and can do everything he says he can. He certainly seems a rough customer, but he has the ear of influen- tial men, and they'll go far to carry out his plans. When fifty thousand-people have votes which they cast without having in- telligence enough to know what for, middle-men like Doke be- come political necessities. Only one caution I'd give you, and that is not to trust him with too much money. As to running for office, the time is unfavorable just at present to prepare for such a,thing. I recommend you to study the board carefully, and to wait a few months, when I can be of some service to you myself" Thus encouraged, Hugh had no hesitation in embarking in other of Ingott's schemes of a larger character, and was equally prosperous in all, for the man's cunning was of no ordinary kind. His whole soul was wrapped up in the pursuit of dollars, and he had lived fifty years in the chase; so that long experience whet- ted his natural instincts to an almost unerring certainty in the   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       373    i overtaking of his game. Why he should admit others to share .  1 in spoil which he might easily monopolize, was not very appar- : ent. But this belonged to a class; of considerations which par- ticipants in spoil are very ready to overlook. So Hugh waxed  i richer and richer, and troubled himself not at all with Mr. Ingott's motives.  Meanwhile he was subjected to temptation of another sort, in A the beautiful person and fascinating manners of Edith Parapet. That this aristocratic young lady would have repelled the ideas  of marrying any person of An- unknown or humble family,     l whether rich or poor, is most true. But she was excessively pleased with Hugh Gifford; and, perhaps, a tacit belief -that  II such a consummation was quite out of the question, made her   i i: less cautious than she otherwise would have been. I have said she was handsome, with a -tall, exquisitely moulded figure--not like Marian's, there was not one in ten thousand that was-but  : still uncommonly fine; a delicate aquiline nose, arching brows, coral lips curved like Diana's bow, and hands and feet which were perfect studies. .;/i Yet it was not physical attractions alone which constituted  i Edith's charm. There was a loftiness in her mien which, with- :.: out giving the least idea of personal vanity, and so being in that : sense offensive, made her condescension marvellously gracious ! and winning. Her accomplishments were many, and could be : judiciously employed; but neither they nor her beautiful person A had half the power of her manner-when she chose. Now, she had been accustomed to find this particular weapon A quite irresistible; and it was not strange on coming in contact with the good-looking, unequivocally well-bred, but as unequi- . i vocally reserved, Hugh Gifford, that she should in time be   jx: tempted to experiment to see if he were really so unimpression- able as he seemed. And Hugh, perceiving those all but imper- ?ft ceptible distinctions, those incipient, half-blown coquetries that , t a lady of high degree can show to a man of sensitive nature and ! quick perceptions, without their being in the least observable to J the rest of the world, would have been more or less than mortal not to have enjoyed them. It was a sort of flirtation which goes !g on more fiequently among refined people than the world is   !? aware of-far more frequently than the sort which it is much  ;!? readier to impute, and freer to censure. There was not a spark of intentional disloyalty to Marian  jid in iHugh's breast. But the flattery of a beautiful and' distin- , guished woman's preference assailed him in his weakest moments. " It came upon him when wealth had purchased adultation, and   i fiii   874         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, idleness had encouraged dissipation; when his egotism was puffed by the worthless pawans of the sordid and the vulgar, and his self-respect was belittled by a secret, but ever present, sense of unworthiness-by a sense of being false to a sacred trust, and hiding away his talent in a napkin. Still, he had no-not the least-notion of infidelity. His acquaintance with the family of the Parapets had commenced before he had discovered Marian, and it merely continued afterwards as it had been before. It never occurred to Hugh--at least not for a long time- that the pleasure he found in the society of Edith was in any degree pur- chased at the expense of his duty to Marian. Unhappily, both Edith and Gifford had qualities which were very much admired in an vesthetic sense by the other. They loved to linger near one another, as one lingers near a fine pic. ture or piece of sculpture, and with as little sense of being harmed thereby. But the harm was there, nevertheless, and threatened to break forth by-and-by to the misery of all con- cerned. The pair were seen together at the opera, at concerts, in the park, walking in Fifth Avenue, or in other fashionable resorts. They were seen too often to escape comment, and after a while the world began to draw its inferences. However, Mrs. Parapet was so generally present upon these occasions, and- the Parapets were, as a rule, so studious to avoid being conspicuous, that re- mark was not so swift in spreading through the community as it might otherwise have been. Pending such inauspicious rumors, there was one day con- vened a solemn conclave in the Wall Street office of Messrs. Ingott and Gollop. Mr. Salathiel Doke was present, and joined in the deliberations. The meeting lasted for an hour or more, and broke up with the emphatic statement of Mr. Gollop, con- fidently expressed, after hearing all the others had to say on the subject under discussion, "You kin bet yer life that to be a Con- gressman's his bait!" In the afternoon, Mr. Ingott waited upon Gifford at his house, and unfolded the fact that he was going to confer upon that gentleman a greater proof of his goodwill than ever before : that is to say, it was open to him to accept or not; but he should have the opportunity of electing. The truth was, that Ingott and Gollop had just entered into a gigantic contract with the State Government, which was absolutely certain to clear for the contractors a profit of no less than five millions of dollars in less than two years. One-eighth of this enterprise Messrs. Ingott and Gollop were willing to allot to Hugh on so simple a con-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        375 dition that it amounted to a positive gift. This was merely the filling of a bond in the extent of $250,000, which was one- quarter of the security they were obliged to give. The sum was large, but it would be no inconvenience, since the authori- ties would accept Gifford's bond without any transfer or tying- up of property; and if he objected, it was all the same, as Mr. Ingott's only wish was to do his friend a great service. More- over, his connection with the affair would be a material advan- tage in respect to his political prospects. A man who had made his fortune by hard work, or who had not doubled it when made by preposterous luck, would have hesitated over this proposition, and declined it. Not so our hero, who only saw in the scheme a fresh stride, whereby he was to become four times as rich as when he came to the great city. Twenty-four hours later saw him become, practically speaking, a silent partner in the house of Ingott and Gollop, entitled to one- eighth of their profits-responsible for one-eighth of their losses. If he had only been wise enough to put his eggs in different baskets! But it is not alone "The wisdom of the Giaour" which " cometh after the catastrophe!" CHAPTER XIV. "MY dear Edith," said Mrs. Parapet, as they rolled in their stately carriage through the wide avenues of the Park, " what -now that you have had such good opportunities for judging-- what do you think of Mr. Gifford." "Think of him " "Do you think him clear-sighted, discreet, sagacious-or should you esteem him obtuse, frivolous, conceited?" "Good heavens! Dear mamma, are you jesting? Surely you cannot for an instant suppose that any one could apply these latter epithets to Hugh Gifford?" "But the former?" "Most persons, I should say, would credit him for having an uncommonly good head for his years. But really one can scarcely tell. Men are so deceptive; and I -have seen so very little of him---" "Little of him! Let me see; he came from Europe, I think, some time in September. It is now past the holidays, although,   376   ,     MARIAN ROOKE; OR, with so little snow, it certainly seems incredible. After buying his housq, he spent a few weeks in travel. Since his return, there may have been many days when he has not been at the house, but I cannot recall more than half-a-dozen!" "He has been much with Clinton," said lMiss Parapet, playing with the tassel of her parasol with a delicately gloved hand, "and, doubtless, has been in the house very fiequently when I have not seen him." "Your papa is much pleased with his report apropos of little Dimity. He thinks Clinton is only amusing himself after all. Dangerous spoit, perhaps! But better so than to be frightfully in earnest." ^' Unquestionably!" "Nothing could be so dreadful as for him to compromise him- self in such a manner. Of course they're very rich; 'but what are riches in our eyes?" A responsive, curl wreathed the aristocratic lips of Edith, which was observed by her mamma with anxious satisfaction. "You quite agree, my love, that no considerations df money could, or should, reconcile us to what would be otherwise a mesalliance?" "Most certainly." "Ah, Edith, I am so glad to hear you say so." Edith looked surprised. "Did you ever hear me express myself otherwise?" "Not in terms, my dear, assuredly." "By implication, then?" "It is not quite easy to answer that question." "Not quite easy?" "Since different constructions may more readily be put upon actions, in such matters, than upon words." "Positively, mamma, you're quite like a Delphic prophetess to-day. I really wish you'd think proper to explain your- self!" They had passed Gifford and Clinton Parapet a few minutes before, and the manner in which Edith had received the former's profound salutation had been the cue to the mother's discourse. Hugh was looking remarkably handsome, and his bow had brought a peculiar carnation to the cheek of the proud girl be- side her, which a score of obeisances from as many different cavaliers, since their carriage entered the Park, had collectively failed to produce. It was natural that Mrs. Parapet's anixety should threaten to get the better of her prudence when. she thus marked the outward and visible sign of what she had, for some   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        3" weeks, with maternal apprehension, suspected; natural even that it should make her indifferent for-the time to the admiration freely bestowed on the Parapet vehicle from a hundred rolling equipages as they flashed by; admiration of which the mamma received her full share as she sat there wrapped in costly furs, and looking infinitely more like Edith's sister than her parent. "My confidence in my dear Edith's tact;" said the lady. after a diplomatic pause, " her discretion, a above all, in her just regard for the family position and name, have been so implicit that I feel I ought to apologize-even to a child-before alluding to what might appear to- be a temporary forgetfulness of either." "I am quite at a loss, dear mamma," returned Edith, in the impenetrable manner she knew so well how to assume, " to ap- prehend your meaning." "We were speaking of Clinton, you know, my love, and of our fears lest he should compromise himself, or the family." "And I understood you to convey the hope that, on the whole, those fears were unfounded." "So far as your brother is concerned, dear Edith, your papa thinks--that is, Mr. Gifford thinks, and your papa accepts his opinion-that they are quite so."           ^     l "Well, dear mamma, as we were quite agreed about the. nature of the emergency, quite in accord as to its essentially ob- jectionable character, and quite ready to congratulate each other that the danger is not so imminent as we supposed, I really don't see why you should apologize to me or any one else for so doing!" A trace of vexation passed over Mrs. Parapet's face, but it passed very quickly, and left behind her most polished smile. "I am not quite clear," she resumed, after a moment's reflec- tion, " that- Clinton and Mr. Gifford have been doing each other much good of late." "Indeed!" "' At first we were well pleased that so cultivated a young man, one-so free from the dissipations young men now-a-days are so apt to indulge in, should be Clinton's associate. But I have a suspicion that of late they have been encouraging each other in wildness rather than in self-restraint." "We have seen no great proofs of it, surely. New York is so ready to chatter about men without regular employment. It is the vengeance taken by the mass who have no leisure upon the few who have." ' In any case," continued Mrs. Parapet airily, "it can make   378         MARIAN ROOKE ;. OR, no particular difference, since Mr. Gifford's reform, if needed, will be likely to follow swiftly on the heels of his transgression." "Why so?" *"You haven't heard, then? Do you remember a Mr. Riving. stone, connected with the Rivingstones, you know, only he lived many years in the South; an old friend of your papa's, too, by the way  "Pray what has Mr. Rivingstone to do with Mr. Gifford, or his affairs?" "Very much, since the latter gentleman is to marry his ward." "Mr. -Gifford-marry!" "Why not   He's eligible, isn't he? Do you know rof any lawful bar or impediment? No! Very well then, Mr. Gifford is to marry old Mr. Rivingstone's ward. That Southern girl, the brunette, who was so much admired at the -E gremonts; she is our young friend's fiancee." Edith made a great effort, for the occasion called for it. The news came upon her with the suddenness of a thunder clap. No one who might have-taken pleasure in being its bearer, through possible suspicion of its being unwelcome, had happened to en- counter her since it had been whispered in society, so that the rumor even was absolutely unexpected. Mrs. Parapet leaned quietly back in the seat, surveying Edith's face much as the man- ager of an electrical machine studies those of his victims when he is turning on the power. The lips grew a little white and tremulous, and the carnation slowly faded away; but the proud sparkle of the eye was there, the sparkle which tells of the effort the will is making to retain the appearance of self-possession. "I don't believe it," said Edith, quietly. Her mother smiled. She knew her daughter perfectly, and was watching the processes of her mind with appreciative sa- gacity. "Pardon me, my   dear child, but there can be no doubt as to the fact. And you will forgive me if I add that I am not sorry for it." "1 You mean, of course, on account of his own and of Clinton's habits?  So am I if it be -true, but how do you know it to be so?" Her voice was so steady now, her manner so assured, that Mrs. Parapet looked at her just an instant with some alarm. "Surely you have no reason to know it is otherwise?" "Not exactly," replied Edith, trying to smile in turn ; "yet it is at least improbable that a man of his years should have vis-   i          THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        379 - ited so frequently in a family and made no mention of a fact so intimately connected with his happiness and his future prospects." i There are circumstances in which such mention is precisely the last thing to be expected of a man. I onlytrust Mr. Gifford's reticence is not connected with the worst possible cause for it." "You continue to puzzle me, dear mamma." "But if no one complains, I suppose we must of course acquit him. The wedding is not to take place until next autumn, I hear. You do not seem interested in our friend's engagement, my love ." "I simply disbelieve in its existence." "As to that, you may be readily convinced. Lewis, Mrs. Cranstoun's carriage is stopping in the square, this side of the Circular Drive. Go to it." The coachman touched his hat, and Edith turned pale again at i1 the confident tone with which her mother promised corroboration. In a few moments the vehicles were side by side. Mrs. Cran- stoun was speaking with some shadowy young ladies, of an un- certain age, in a brougham. The Misses Drierly in fact; people of a respectable but bigoted New England family, famous .for their bitter prejudices, their curious egotism, their worship for the head of their family, a litterateur, whom they consoled for -the indifference of the world by affecting to think him a demni-god, and for their pertinacious efforts to insinuate themselves into society which either was, or which was reputed to be, above that of their own proper degree. The Parapets had no knoweldge of the Drierly sfurther than was implied bythe most distant of bows, and had never visited or been visited by them. But, although Mrs. Cranstoun, who knew them better, hal said adieu beforethe Parapet equipage drove up, they made soe mysterious excuse for remaining on the other side of her carriage, that even such an indirect evidence of acquaintanceship with the Parapets might not be lost upon the passing world. "Good morning, my dear Mrs. Cranstoun. I have taken the liberty, perceiving you had stopped, to detain you for a moment to ask for the health of our dear Julia." "A thousand thanks, dear Mrs. Parapet; you are always kind. She is scarcely as well to-day, although the weather is so fine. She is delicate at best, poor thing. No, like Miss Parapet, who has the strength as well as the bloom of the wild rose." "Our family are fortunate in point of health, certainly ; but it is not always the healthiest who last the longest." "I dare say, when my dear Julia gets older, she may improve.   380         MARIAN OOKE; OR, Doctor Nott says the constitution is scarcely set before four or five and twenty." "To be sure.  How many people are driving, are there not?" "A vast number. The weather is uncommonly mild for the season." "Remarkably so. A friend of ours-Mr. Rivingstone--who has been much in the South, was observing that it is nearly as temperate thus far as a winter at New Orleans. Not a chance for skating yet on the lakes." "Mr. Rivingstone! I had the pleasure of receiving a call from him a day or two since." "Indeed. Most amiable and gentlemanly person, is he not? How odd that he should never have married. He is quite with- out a family." "Not strictly," said Mrs. Cranstoun, in the pride of superior knowledge; a' he lives with a sister, you know." "Ah, to be sure; I know the sister." "And then there's his ward," pursued the other lady, in a tone expressive of a conviction that this piece of information, at least, was not held in common; " his ward, from the South, a fine girl, although rather too dark for my taste."- I I saw her at the Egremonts, now you mention it. Beautiful eyes and teeth, has she not?" "Yes," admitted Mrs. Cranstoun, grudgingly, for these were neither of them strong points with Julia, poor girl. "But dark, almost like a quadroon. By-the-bye, it's half a secret, but she's engaged to a friend of yours." "So says rumor; but I think it rather doubtful." ' By no means; I questioned Mr. Rivingstone particularly; and, although he was a little evasive, and said they did not care to give needless publicity to the fact, he admitted definitely that it was one." u Ah, that puts it beyond question, I suppose." "Entirely. He's so very scrupulous; so cautious a person is Mr. Rivingstone. So, we'll consider what I repeat as entre nous, please."  ' I shall congratulate Mr. Gifford when I see him, may I not?" "Not on my authority, if you'll oblige me, although it's quite true. She's very charming, no doubt. At the same time I be- lieve entirely without fortune, and no one ever heard of her be- fore; quite an obscure name, as one may say, He might have done better, dear Mrs. Parapet."   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        381 Very likely; still, we must permit him to judge for himself. Thanks; my love to dear Julia, and good morning, dear Mrs. Cranstoun." And, with a repetition of adieux, the vehicles separated, leav- ing the Drierly brougham in doubt whether to follow the Cran- stoun coupe or the Parapet barouche. ,Now,  dear Edith," said Mrs. Parapet, sweetly, "I have driven as much as I care to drive for the day, have no calls to make, and am therefore entirely at your service. So if you. choose to give Lewis your orders, pray do so." The coachman turned a respectful ear and took them. They were very intelligible, if very laconic; being comprised in the single monosyllable, 6 Home." CHAPTEIR XV. IT is an unfortunate peculiarity about New York society that it affords little or no occupation in the hours of daylight. There are, to be sure, such things as morning calls'to be paid there as well as elsewhere, but, in general, they are little indulged in save among the indubitable Parapets; and where a community is so exclusively commercial-where men who are not in counting- houses or offices of a morning are regarded for the most part with undisguised suspicion--where the majority of ladies devote themselves at such times to pursuits whereon masculine intrusion is least agreeable-the incitements to such social amenities are at their minimum. But the resources which suggest themselves to the mind, and which, in older cities, are lavishy supplied in the shape of art galleries, museums, reading-rooms, ancient architecture, morn- ing concerts, suburban excursions and other pastimes, commonly open to the middle class stranger sojourning in Europe, are as yet in a callow or infantile state in the Tyre of the West. Truly there are attempts in these directions which will occur to the critical Tyrian himself; but they are hot such as a traveller can acknowledge to even approach the old world achievements in the same way., Under these circumstances, people who are unfortunate enough to have leisure in New York are rather put to their trumps how to dispose of it; and wealthy Americanyouth, or, for that mat-   382        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, ter, idlers of any age or condition, are sadly apt to have recourse to expedients which are the reverse of profitable or edifying. In the first place, by a process familiar to ethical analysts, leis- ure itself being commonly voted a crime, the unhappy possessors thereof are constantly impelled to verify the imputation. In the second, by an equally natural provision flowing from the pre- sumed moral status of idlers, the net-weavers or caterers of pleasure prepare what their experience teaches are the most fas- cinating. and profitable of dainties. That is to say, daylight leisure in New York is chiefly devoted to lounging in hotels, playing billiards, smoking cigars, drinking drams, and driving 'trotting-horses. Hugh Gifford came upon -the scene with unusual social advan- tages; and, when it is said that even he, with his prudence, his dislike of low vice, and his honorable ambition, began, after a season, to incline overmuch towards these time-killers, the force of the impulsion may be fairly estimated. It is true, that he came too easily by his money to rightly measure the value of time; also true, that he was dissatisfied with the state of his relations with M-arian; but inexperience and discontent together would not have led him into the sort of dissipation he now affected; it was because all other men of leisure affected the same, and because there was no other. When the social condition is such, that wealthy young men have no spurs of conscience to remind them of a duty to the State, and when there is little social consideration to be gained by work which their gold has not already purchased without it, it is not a matter of surprise that efforts should not be made which point to nothing-not strange that aimless frivolity should take the place of useful ambition. I am not writing an essay to prove the advantage of heredi- tary aristocracy, which would be, at least for many readers, " to assert what they have never seen denied, and distinguish what they are in no danger of confounding;" and -would willingly' escape, if possible, the censure Hallam passed upon Tasso. I mean simply to convey the idea that Hugh Gifford, a rich young man in the great western metropolis, being beyond the necessity for labor, and sickened almost' beyond measure by glimpses of the political paths to distinction pointed out by the crafty-mind- ed Doke, fell into ways he would gladly have avoided had any others presented themselves. Let us, if we can, eschew cant of all sorts. Let us acknowl- edge the good in democracy, manhood suffrage, free soil, free trade, and, in the- reasonable limits of decency and taste, fiee   p / S THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE. speech as well: in which enjoyment; let us declare that, because all men vote, does not necessitate either a social or a political Utopia; its advantages may be many, but it maketh us not as gods that we worship the rabble and crown it king. Moreover, since free speech is the text of the momont, let me put upon record, ere it slip my memory, that the man who swears loudest i there is no Salathiel Doke, is surely he who most employs and profits by him. Hugh did not altogether abandon his political projects. He held the whole scheme under advisement. Mr. Clyde had gone into the interior of the State to arrange the machinery of a com- ing election. le would soon return, and then our hero would seek his advice, and, perhaps, abide by it. There was certainly one thing about Eldon Clyde's advice which made it rather dif- ferent from other people', which was, that in most cases he could back it up if he liked by insuring success in the path he counselled. Pending his rural wanderings, Clinton and Hugh were killing time together. Clinton, assailed by father, mother, and friend together, had made oath that he really was not in love with Flora Dimity. If it would afford them any satisfaction, he would give up driving her in the park, most certainly. It had been merely a harmless attention on his part, and he was quite confident the young lady herself had not misconstrued it. She was a good partner, waltz- ed nicely, altogether a pretty, lively girl, full of vivacity--the most attractive blonde he had ever seen in fact-but as to any- thing serious, tut! he had never thought of such a thing. The truth was, Clinton had a hereditary aversion from being ' bored, and bored he knew he would infallibly be, were he to make any other professions, adopt any other policy respecting Flora Dimity, than those he avowed. But a close observer would have soon detected in the young gentleman marks of dis- quietude. He began to smoke cigars of a morning,' and--omi- nous symptom of a perturbed soul!--to drink champagne cock- tails. He also took long drives into the country, now crossing by the ferries and penetrating into Long Island, and now plung- ing northward until he had left Harlem and King's Bridge far behind. Both he and Hugh Gifford were in capital frame of mind to encourage each other in folly-and they did so. "You see, my dear fellow," said Clinton, with that ready employment of commonplaces men often display when some- thing out of the common has dictated their action; "you see why it is we travel; there's really nothing for it here but to drink, smoke, play billiards, and drive fast horses. The women   384         MARIAN, ROOKE; OR, are charming, of course; but since to be out of your cage of a morning is a sign of bankruptcy, or something worse, they don't care to harbor us by daylight. We have an afternoon drive in the park; we have dinner and a cigar at the clubs ; a soupcon too much en bourgeoise perhaps; a lounge at the opera ;-all very well from four to twelve, but that's only eight hours-out of the twen- ty-four." "Whynot get up an Idler's Club," suggested Gifford, puffing lazily at his havana, " to reduce the art of doing nothing to the most exquisite and symmetrical practice? No one to be admit- ted of whom it can be proved that he has, or is ever likely to have, anythingwhateverto do. You'd make a capital president, and I think I could draw up a very good set of by-laws." "The most emphatic of which," said Clinton, pursuing the idea, "should be that no one in trade should, under any possible pretext, be admitted." "Nay, such a prohibition must not be pronounced, not expli- citly in terms, that is. It would be included in the comprehen- sive generality of having something to do. To have such a clause literally set forth in so democratic a community, were to invert the object of the association, and to give us speedily something to do with a vengeance." "True, true. The republican gorge riseth at the notion of dignified ease, as does that of the fiend at the sacred water. It might be well, to insure quiet, to affect that we were engaged in some most arduous and exacting toils." "Seeking the Philosopher's Stone, for example." "Our countrymen would not believe that capital was invested in so unpractical an object, and it would rouse their suspicions." "The object being .for the sake of lucre!" "The goal is well enough, but the path to it would excite distrust. Better some new device for making cloth without cot- ton-walls without mortar-bricks without straw." "Or scholars by steam, without the drudgery of a curriculum. Why waste years in laborious accumulation, when an active pis- ton may thrust in the whole mass in a twinkling?" "Such a machine would be useful in many ways, as in the manufacture of statesmen and diplomatists, seeing -that as we. change them every four years, a large supply ought properly to be kept on hand." o"Je ne vois pas lo necessite," said Hugh, recurring bitterly to his lengthy experience. "The candidates have need of long purses rather than of any other qualifications, and my friend, Mr. Doke,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       385 is as efficacious as any patent machine could be in filling the niches when occasion serves." 'I'm rather surprised that any one should give himself the trouble," returned Clinton; " but every one to his taste." '- ' 'Tis his vocation, Hal.' He makes public servants to order for so many dollars a piece, as Mr. Dimity-no offence-sells bom- bazine, or as the Optimist murders, reputations, all in the way of business." "Heaven keep him still in that mind, then, since it saves a world of labor to the Parapets!" "Exactly. The Parapets rust that Dokes may shine ; and the latter, instead of being grateful, are for ever abusing even your very shadows. They revile in the same breath that they vow you are mythical. They reign through a species of indolent sufferance, whilst they swear to the people it is by divine right." "Let them swear what they like, and the people choose to be- lieve,"- quoth Clinton, indolently; v"so they leave us alone. Thqre is one thing which troubles me sorely just now, a thing which you may have forgotten-there is no opera to-night." "No opera!" "rgo, there is nothing to do. -There is no ball, no party to fill up the blank, save the eonversazione at those appallingDrierlys. We voted, you remember, that nothing but brute force should drag us thither; and what remains T?" "One of the theatres perhaps." (r "ish comedy for pit and gallery; Irish farce for pit and gal- lery; Irish stuffed stick, lilt, broken hat, tail of my coat, virtuous maid, broth of a boy, cruel agent of absentee landlord, beast of an English officer, who knows how to read and write and has clean hands, insults virtuous maid, and is knocked down by stuffed stick and broth of a boy for pit and gallery! Faugh! The thing is beyond measure offensive, preposterous, and untruthful." "But all the theatres don't do Irish pieces." "Too many of them do. Your friend Doke's constituency is heavy. The exceptions are scarcely more inviting; high comedy, with uneducated counter-jumpers trying to ape the fine gentle- man; over-dressed Hebrews, with bushels of hair and tons of jewelry foreunes premieres ; and peacock-voiced women, buried in finery for every character, no matter how incongruous, with manners like those of a dissipated governess, for fineladies. Why, these people have not the remotest idea, the faintest, how the beings walk, talk, dress, think, or feel, they conceive themselves to be imitating!" "But if their audiences have no better, what ha m?" ' ln   386        MARIAN ROO00 ; OR,) "Ah, that indeed! But you'Il observe such a fact makes the exhibition rather more, than less, distasteful to any accidental ex- ception. We have no national comedy, nor shall we have yet awhile." "There are no national standards-I mean in the way of so- ciety,-except the Parapets, and they cannot well be copied if they are never seen." "Ah, but if they were seen, the people would not care for the example. The mass cares not to reproduce that which does not reflect itself. By and by, with the attrition of years and the cos- mopolitan taste which comes with a maturer civilization, things may change. Not now." "But we may eschew Thalia for Melpomene." "Better, but still objectionable.  The ideal of Tragedy is represented by the neck and lungs of Taurus bellowing ultra- isms about the glory of ignorance. Dignity, pathos, hatred, despair, must be depicted as the lowest types of mankind would express or try to express them, else they reach not the popular heart. There can be no school where the artist works down to a level, and never up to one." "Alas! we excel in nothing, then, it would seem." "Oh dear, yes. In industry, invention, enterprise, all that goes to make up a rapid national growth, do we not? But scarcely in matters vesthetic, social grace, art, and so on. In these we are yet in our infancy, and perhaps it is well we are so; since the energies of the nation beihg directed to that which is more immediately practical and necessary, accomplish the more through being undivided." "Assuming this to be true, it is very unfortunate that it should be so hazardous to say it. The burthen of our universal song, briefly speaking, is brag; and who interrupts the chorus is beaten for his pains. Alas! that democracies should be more ready to stone their prophets than despotisms!" "And yet what more natural?   Since, where all are equally 7powerful and equally responsible, the self-love of each is wounded by the suggestion of a national weakness or deficiency: it is not the philosopher but the ignoramus who writhes under such a stigma. Foreigners continually marvel at the Americans being, as they say, so thin-skinned, piquing themselves in the same breath for being so pachydermatous, and forgetting that the sus- ceptibility to improvement is implied by the one, and the con- trary by the other." "But if, as you admit, we stone our prophets " i Ay, but . e never forget what they say! A glorious conso- / a   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         387 lation to existing or intending martyrs, Without which, perhaps, there would be no new ones." "Apropos, they tell me the Drierlys invariably cage all the Wise Men of the East who may happen to be running at large, to give eclat to their shows; since you can't stand the poor his- trions, what say you to being bored for an hour and trying the magi?" "Agreed ; on one condition." "Which is  " "That we really do come away in an hour. That delightful mixture of Puritanism, mutual admiration, provincialism, and Mrs. Grundyism becomes rather exhausting after sixty minutes. Besides, we are not in the highest favor, you must know." "' And why not, pray?" "Simply that nothing can induce Mrs. or Miss Parapet to darken the Drierly doors, notwithstanding their quasi-literary position. Of course, they're not in our set, and equally of course, liberal folk overlook punctilio in the cases of clever writers.  But there is something in the Drierly atmosphere which the female Parapet, however graciously entreated, abso- lutely declines to breathe; so that the males, albeit courteously received, are, in a manner, accepted under protest." "I see. These gentry are parvenus like myself; but, unlike myself, wish to mancevre their way to circles where they are not quite wanted." Z'It might be too harsh to say that; but I fear they would prefer to be uncomfortable in such than at ease where better known;   The way of the world; only I suppose more con- spicuous here because of the absence of nominal or legal social distinctions, so that the incongruity between profession and practice looks sharper by contrast. None will insist more elo- quently than the Drierlys on democratic equality; they affect to despise a stray Englishman who happens to bear a title through no fault of his own; and yet almost their whole lives are passed in a bitter struggle for access to strata of society they think better or higher in general repute than that they now flourish in." "Ah, you are jealous because they have what you are so de- ficient in-a laudable ambition!" "I will present you as their champion!  Being, like them- selves, born and bred in New England, they will receive you with open arms!" "That will scarcely be consistent with their character, 'as you draw it, when they learn the obscurity of my origin."   etlUUJ       JVI  K,!A M -K IIU-JAIJ U.,RY "Tut, man! that is where their democracy comes in; the obscurity of your origin would doubtless be damnatory but for the extenuating circumstances. They certainly wouldn't see you but for'those. But the Drierlys are too democratic to look fororigin when the obscure one stands in a halo such as yours. 'A man's a man for a' that,' invariably with them--when he's rich and keeps a carriage /" CHAPTER XVI. THE Drierlys were a peculiar family. Generally speaking, the impression they made on the mind of a stranger was that they were very bigoted, very provincial, very well educated in very narrow limits, very ambitious in a social point of view, and very conceited. Physically, they were very much alike, so that there was always some doubt about telling one from another. They were skinny, sallow, with hair of feeble whity-brown, and color- less eyes, and were each and all of a semi-diaphanous character, so that for one of the family to melt slowly away before your eyes would hardly have excited your astonishment or consterna- tion. The Drierlys were also remarkable people politically. They came originally from New England, and indeed always seemed out of their element in New York. They combined, in a very happy manner, the Puritanic and the literary character-the strange mingling of asceticism and belles-lettres, the yearning for intellectual flesh-pots with a morbid regard for appearances- which grows indigenously in t-e atmosphere of Boston. Pro- fessedly, they were ardent democrats, and advocated strenuously a levelling process to be applied to all above them ; whilst all below they wished to be vigorously kept at a distance. Thus they positively loathed the presumed assumption of the Parapets; but they had rather take serpents into their houses than people with less money or inferior social position than their own. A Drierly, if questioned on the point, would have professed to be a cosmopolitan. America was the country which opened its arms to all races and conditions of men ; all were welcome, for all mankind were brothers. Unhappily this proved, upon close investigation, to be merely a theoretical fraternity : for the hatred of the Drierlys for other nations was found, to be of the nature   THE QUEST FOR, FORTUNE.        389 of an absorbing passion. Most especially they hated England; assuming, in all cases, that every Englishman they met was in- dividually responsible for every error in judgment or policy the government of his country had ever committed. But their aver- sion was tolerably comprehensive; embracing all foreigners who did not promptly declare that their own country was a hell and America a heaven, of which the Drierlys were highly conspicu- ous and eminent ministering angels. This charitable characteristic of the Drierlys, however, began very fairly and handsomely at home. They disliked people of their own countryin proportion to their diptance from themselves, and opposed slavery rather because they hated slaveholders than because they pitied the slaves. As their countrymen flourished nearer and nearer to their own home, the animosity of the Drierlys was slowly mitigated ; but it was only those of their immediate set, circle, or clique that they regarded with unalloyed approbation ; and to obtain this seal it was needful, as'a rule, to pay tribute of some sort to the family. Nothing could exceed the sweetness and amiability of the Drierlys as shown to those who, from their wealth or position, could afford them  a stepping-stone upward, and fortify their worldly consideration; except, indeed, the indifference, if not bitterness, with which they treated those who might once have served them, and could no longer do so.  Such as were in this unlucky category, most especially if the world had treated them hardly, the Drierlys regaled with a mixture of acrimony and con- tempt refreshing to behold, and delicious to partake of. The station claimed by the Drierlys rested upon somewhat' strange foundations, consisting mainly in certain dry and-didac- tic lucubrations contributed to the literature of his country by the head of the family some half a century before. These productions, inoffensive and respectable enough in their way, were assuredly of too bloodless and negative a type 'either to possess abiding in- fluence, or to justify the hope of a brilliant reputation. 3But from the  paucity of rivals, and the blamelessness of their author's : private life, people were willing to accord them higher consider- ation than his writings intrinsically deserved. It was not sur- prising that this element of kindly concession somehow escaped the eye of the Drierlys, or that they cherished a profound con- viction that their illustrious relative had clearly won a wreath, to which those of the greatest sages of the elder world were but as dust and tinsel.        Personally, the old gentleman was not prepossessing, nor did he, to appearance, bear his honors over meekly. He was of an   390-        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, - austere presence, as if ever fearful of his state being infringed, and, albeit a profusion of snowy hair and beard gave reverence to his face, they did not give it benignity. Hie was reputed to rule his household by no law of kindness, and to exact a species of deference, if notiof homage, which is worse than worthless, other- wise than as the freewill offering of love. When he stood by, no dog was permitted to bark ; and any stranger who might be caught smiling at what appeared, considering all things, a ludi- crous exaggeration, was cut, tabooed, ostracized, sent to Coven- try, done anything to which the genius of ihe Drierlys could de- vise, or their malice compass. Flowing from such a source, there was a flavor of solemn hum- bug in the mansion of the Drierlys, which inspired awe or ridi- cule according to the experience or susceptibility to the absurd of the visitor. There was a pomp and circumstance which were systematically tried on all new comers, and which were supposed to be accepted as matters of course by those whom the family patronized, or, in general, who were in a position to stand it. For thoseon the other hand, upon whom the display would make no impression, and whom it was yet worth while to propitiate, there was an affectation of overflow-a gay, light-hearted, affec- tionate abandon which was marvellously effective ; that is to say, with people who were deficient in that faculty so largely possessed by Americans, a swiftness in detecting what is inconsistent with common sense. Mrs. Drierly was seldom seen, but, as has been before' ob- served, the extraordinary resemblance which subsisted made it really quite immaterial which of the feminine branches should do the honors upon any given occasion. It was sure to be some- body who was peaked, thin-voiced, semi-transparent, well up in the ologies, austere to inferiors, sycophantic to superiors, rev- erential to the head of the house, adroit as a stirrer up of lions, intensely national in the Drierly sense, and a cordial hater of all dissentients. Thus, when Gifford and Clinton Parapet were ushered up firom the hall, they were met near the landing by a diaphanous Some- body who received, them with. pale affability, and a series of courtesies expressive of profound welcome, such as was fitting to the advent of a Millionaire and a Parapet. '4 We are very gay to-night," said this ghostly Being, in an acidulated and slightly nasal accent, "although promiscuous. Talk has been lively. There are a good many ladies round. Pa' and Professor Sukkar have conferred on immortality. Pa' is speaking now. H-u-s-h!"   v THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       391 This last monosyllable was directed to the servant who had fluno open the drawing-room door, -through which a hollow vice was heard, as from the tombs, discoursing within. '4 Man, then," pursued the Voice with that assurance which indicates no fear of contradiction, I' will be precluded by no sub- terranean devices from asserting perennial spiritual elasticity; since, even if driven to estimate the subject with the eye of the physicist, we shall find that by some occult and deeply myste- rious processes of percolation he shall divest himself of his trammels. and soar into the empryean upon pinions devoid of corporeal ponderosity!" "That's so," endorsed another voice near the door, in which Hugh, to his amazement, recognized the-tones of Mr. Doke. "Misther Parapet and Misther Gifford!" announced the do- mestic, who had evidently been trained to watch for periods. A buzz of admiration ran round the apartment at the imposing names, and that general flutter succeeded among. the Drierlys and their adherents which always attended the arrival in their circle of wealth and station. "Ladies!" said the Head of the family, rising from his chair of state, and standing in front of it, flanked by two large solar lamps, which beamed upon him with quite a picturesque effect, -"ladies-Mr. Parapet, Mr. Gifford. Gentlemen-Mr. Par- apet, Mr. Gifford. Mr. Parapet," he added, unctuously, "knows . full well how welcome he is here, and that whoever calls Mr. Parapet friend is no less so. Many of you know Mr. Parapet: Mrs. Camomile, Mrs. Cranstoun, Mrs. Dimity-Mr.'Parapet. Some of you do not know Mr. Parapet: Miss Steelyard of Bos- ton, Miss Rooke, Miss Cranstoun, Miss Dimitjy-- Mr. Parapet, Mr. Gifford. I beg pardon! Miss Rosette P. Aloe, M D.,- Mr. Parapet, Mr. Gifford." A profusion of bows and courtesies followed this partly super- fluous introduction. ' "Professor Sukkar of Heidelberg, the great Psychommetri- cal Idealist-Mr. Parapet, Mr. Gifford. Major Gollop, the great capitalist and speculator; Mr. Doke, the eminent politi- cian ; Mr. Moke, the far-famed abolitionist; Mr. Coke, the cel- ebrated lawyer; Mr. Prodder, the warbler of nature; Mr. Jobb, of the Post Office ; Mr. Schwindel, of the Custom House; Mr. Whiting Blobb, of the Centurion; Mr. Grindle ofthe ioon; etc., etc.--Mr Parapet, Mr. Gifford." Mr. Drierly here sunk back exhausted into his chair, and our two friends had time to glance comprehensively about the large rooms, which communicated by a lofty arch, and around which   392         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, the company were gathered in a circle, or rather in an ellipse at the upper end of which was the Drierly dais. Scarcely, how. ever, had they seated themselves, when a little gentleman with green glasses and no hair, who sat on the right of the host, leaped spasmodically to his feet, and execlaimed: "Penetrated wiz a lively sense of de greatness of dis glorious country, even I, de poor exile, dus expatriated, must agree to tank our world-famous patron for giving me opportunity to make acquaintance wiz dose distinguished shentlemens. Vash it not for interrupting the vonderful vords of our world-famous patron, more as dis might I say; but no vords of mine can be allowed to shtop dose rays of vishdom wherein we bashk as in de noon-day sun-dose rays of de glorious orb, like him, which truth sprinkles and light diffuses!"' "Oncore!" cried Mr. Blobb, immediately taking down this speech in shorthand, while Miss Aloe rapped on the mantel- piece with her fan, and a general murmur of satisfaction ran round the apartment. "Our friend, Professor Sukkar, while he does justice always to our majestic-our towering land-over-rates, perhaps, my humble capacities." (Murmurs of "No! no!")  It is not, to be sure, given to all to grapple with the tremendous problems of our life and being with precisely equivalent perspicacity, for men have different gifts. Every man has his gifts." ("Every man has his baits," growled Mr. Gollop, from his corner.) "Not to the humble but industrious mole is given the eagle eye which glares undimmed upon the gorgeous luminary of day, yet he is not. deficient in compensatory advantages which atone even for the absence of so valuable a faculty. Nfot to the capitalist"- (a bow from Gollop)-"not to the journalist"-(ditto from Blobb)--" not to the physician"--(the same from Dr. Rosette P. Aloe)--" nay, not even to the Psychommetrical Idealist"- (oriental salaam from Sukkar)--" is it given to penetrate those profound intricacies which connect nature, spirit, and the poet- ical faculty in elusive but lindestructible bonds, only to be de! tected and expounded by rare and wonderful oiganizations,  whose native genius, chastened by severest toil, enables them to trace the misty paths through an exceptional appreciation of their obscure, yet heaven-born adumbrations!" "That's so!" repeated Mr. Doke, evidently profoundly im- pressed. "De organization of Homer!" exclaimed Professor Sukkar, volcanically; " of Goethe of Shakespeare, and of-Drierly!" "Oncore!" cried Blobb.   THE QUEST FOR FORTEUNE.        393 "What the deuce do they mean?" whispered Gifford to his companion.        4 "Deuce take me if I know, except it is some roundabout in- cense to their Magnus Apollo," replied Clinton. "What was them men's baits?" asked Gollop, mistily, of his nearest neighbor, Blobb. "Baits?" "Yes. How could you ketch 'em if you wanted to? Which was't now .? Politics, gals, hosses, or buildin'?" 9"Ah, you're always so funny, Mr. Gollop!" said Blobb doubt- fully, at a venture.     i 4,Funny!" echoed Gollop, relapsing into his arm-chair. "That ain't my bait, anyhow." II The English," continued Mr. Drierly, after pausing, clearing his throat, and looking fishily into space,--"the English, with that narrow-minded perversity which is their predominant idio- syncrasy, have denied to this great and growing land that mighty pre-eminence in everything that ever Was, or Is, or Will Be, which is our birthright" (groans), " and in the particular depart- ment of intellectuo-poetic discrimination-of creative spontaneity in the poetic perceptions-of what may be termed the Pre-Raf- faelitic faculty of interpreting the Real and the Vital of Nature's handiwork in contradistinction to the Artificial and the Lifeless forms of the schools,-they have, I say, in this wise endeavored to exalt the Thinkers of the effete and cramp-souled Old World over those of free-born America!" "Hi, hi!" began Mr. Doke, but was instantly checked by Gifford, who was happily near enough to intervene. "Poshterity," cried Professor Sukkar, ' vill put on dose Tink- ers de seal of oblivion!" "Meanwhile," proceeded the Patriot Sage, " our friend, Mr. Steelyard of Boston, informs me that a society has been thought of in that great centre of thought for the exclusion of all foreign intellectual as well as material wares--for the protection of native brains as well as that of native manufactures, which, although it may justly be thought that they are certain to distance competi- tion, and so render such a design supererogatory, may yet be deemed a fit proposal for national consideration." "Bravo!" exclaimed Mr. Prodder waking up from a state of coma.  "Why should trade be protected and the, muses go naked? Why should our odes and eclogues be bandied in cheap editions, when, by keeping all others from the market, we could force the people to read them!" 17*   394         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, "Um!" doubted Blobb, "we couldn't do without the news, you know." "News, sir!" said Mr. Drierly, reprovingly, " we would make our own news, and quite enough, too, for a free-born people." "Misther Bladderly Flytte!" announced the servitor at the door. "Who may he be?" asked Hugh, sotto voce. "Why," said Clinton, in the same tone, " is it possible you never heard of Flytte? He's the great traveller, you know, who goes abroad, learns all about a foreign country in six weeks, and then writes a comprehensive book about it." "Humph! I don't like his face. That projecting mouth and the rat-like teeth are to me full of unpleasant reminiscences." "But you've never seen him before?" "Oh, dear, no! I was thinking of some one else." "What's the matter with Prodder? See, he's turned his face to the wall." "He doesn't write travels, does he?" "Oh, no! but Flytte writes poems." The new arrival was marshalled to the front by an escort of feminine Drierlys, alike as the Antipholi, to do homage to the Nestor of poesy, philosophy, and the arts. "I have just parted," observed Flytte, affectedly, having paid his compliments, " from Mr. Randolph Burgee of Georgia." "Of Georgia!" repeated the patriarch, frowning. "And Mr. Walsingham Scuttle of Alabama." "Of Alabama!" echoed four Drierlys, with simultaneous wrath. "Very gentlemanly men they are; and although, to be sure, they are slaveholders- " "Slaveholders! Oh, oh, oh!" chorused a dozen voices in dismal deprecation. "Dey ish shentlemens like de imps of der tuyfel!" exclaimed Professor Sukkar, furiously. "They certainly did no original sin by being voluntarily born such." Open to controversy that-open to controversy," said Blobb, sententiously; " been refuted in the Centurion years ago, as Flytte ought to know." "What's his baits?" inquired Gollop, thickly; he had been chewing tobacco on the sly, and spitting softly in the grate. "His baits?" "Yes," repeated Gollop, impatiently, "his weak spots-his darlin' vices. What's he sweet on? What does he like best?"   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        395 "Slaveholders, I reckon. Beg pardon, Mr. Gollop, I thought you were joking again." "Jokin' be d  d{! I didn't get lhalf the shares in your paper by jokin', but by findin' out folkses baits." 6"Slavery," began Mr. Drierly, in a very high key, whereat all the adherents cried, "Hush!" and rubbed their hands as if to say, "Now for it!" while Professor Sukkar cried, "Ordersh," and Dr. Rosette P. Aloe rapped on the mantelpiece with her fan. "' Slavery," repeated the philosopher, looking over Mr. Flytte's head as though he were talking to somebody about ten feet high immediately behind him, " is the sum of all Villanies and the aggravated quintessence of each and every hypothetical Turpi- tude ; and the toleration extended to its vile practisers is a pre- mium paid to vice. 6 We are the Apostles of Freedom, and hold that as an abomination which, while it profiteth not our purses, drags down and blackens our souls. Not by gentleness and long-suffering will we entreat the children of sin for whom the penalty of social ostracism becomes a religious duty----" ' Oncore!" shouted Blobb, enthusiastically. "Beautiful, ain't it?" cried several worshippers in chorus, while Prodder, delighted with the reproof administered to a brother bard, gazed with passionate admiration on the patriarch, and melodiously chanted: "He wears the white flower of a blameless' life!" "(Wherefore," continued the Sinless One, ' let us have nought to do with Randolph Burgee; let us hold ourselves guiltless of association with Walsingham Scuttle. Let us rather hold them up to the scorn and hatred of mankind, that they may become the Ishmaels of the land, and that the Christian world may not include us in the reprobation which attaches to their stupendous crime." "Hurrah!"  "Hear, hear!"  "Dat ish goot!" "Oncore!" arose tumultuously from the throng of disciples. ' Sir," quoth Mr. Flytte, manfully and forgetting his lisp, "that may be the way to infuriate the Sinners, but I cannot think it the best way to abolish the Sin." "What do you think of this?" whispered Clinton. "Think! That he is a selfish old hypocrite," answered Hugh. "Heaven knows I have no love for slavery; but this cheap method of being conspicuous for virtue-of getting credit for mercy to the slave, at the small expense of being unmerciful to O   396         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, the master--must surely have an alloy of meanness, of bigotry, and of selfishness in it." 'Of course it has.  It is this narrow-minded advocacy which has reflected so much prejudice on a noble cause. But good taste has always been on the side of obstruction, and I sup. pose will ever be." "Niggers is niggers," muttered Mr. poke, not relishing the attack on a class always in alliance with his party. "Niggers is niggers; and blowin' won't make 'em white. What do you think of it, Colonel Gollop?" "Let him cackle," replied Gollop, cautiously, and quite in sympathy politically with his questioner, " if it makes him feel good; for it won't make any difference, no how, and blowin' and bein' king-pin is his baits. Interdoose me to that man- that rich man who's fetcht his pile. from Californy. I've been tryin' to spot him more 'n a month!" "Only to peculiar and exceptional organizations," continued Mr. Drierly, with dignity, " is it given to penetrate the true solu- tions of complicated social phenomena. In such cases we do not argue, we know; we do not speculate, we divine; and thus, armed with aknowledge which is not obnoxious to common criticism, we lay down immutable formula for the instruction and guidance of Mankind!" With these luminous words the patriarch, bowing loftily, with- drew. It was his custom to retire at a comparatively early hour on the occasion of these intellectual symposia, when it would be intimated that he was engaged in profound study in his library; but when, if traced to his actual retreat, he would have been found comfortably snoring in bed. Most of the company rose as he departed, while Professor Sukkar and Dr. Aloe, supported by four translucent Drierlys,l supported him to the door, bowing low, in speechless homage, as he passed its portals. A hum of applause attended this cer- emony, serving as a sort of graceful music to garnish the exit. "Our great friend," said the physician, shrilly, as the door closed, ("is in force to-night." "He -ish," affirmed the professor, conclusively, " de light, de beacons of de world'!"  "Only needing to be a little more cosmopolitan," said Mr. Flytte, gravely, " to set it onfire." The professor looked at him suspiciously. "Sir," he observed, at length, feeling called on, in a general way, to confute some- thing, "vat you call de Plutonian in contradistinction to de Neptunian theory---"   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.     .  97 "A thousand pardons! But I see my friend Mr. Parapet moving toward the door, and must really speak with him before he goes." One of the Shadows placed herself in Clinton's way. 4' Pray don't go, Mr. Parapet. Indeed you mustn't. We usually play and sing some after Pa goes. And see how much dear Mr. Gifford is in request! It will really be most unkind of you to tear him away from us!" Dear Mr. Gifford was in request with a vengeance. The company had made a slight, but very perceptible movement to- wards him, when he was first announced. During the intelli- gible debate which had succeeded, the company had oscillated impatiently between respect for philosophy and attraction for lucre. It had shuffled its feet and moved its chairs uneasily. Once or twice Mr. Doke had arisen, and tried to glide round unperceived to Hugh's neighborhood; in doing which he knocked something down, and was looked at with solemn reproof by sev- eral ghostly worshippers, while the idol himself made a comma into a semicolon, that the interruption to his discourse Kmight  appear more marked and reprehensible; whereat, Mr. Gollop, who was burning to be introduced to our hero, and did not -want Doke, as he averred, to "play no advantages gittin' hold of him fust," seized that enterprising gentleman fiercely by the coat-tail and forced him, struggling, back into his chair. But the philosopher once gone, all hesitancy in the repression of in- clination went too, and an enthusiastic gush of popular appre- ciation rolled upon Gifford in a flood, the more overwhelming for being hitherto confined. 'Dear Mr. Gifford, pray allow me to present my daughter. Julia, love, this is Mr. Gifford you've heard us all speak so much of." "Excuse me, ma'am; Mr. Gifford, Colonel Gollop; you know his partner, Mr. Ingott. Ha! ha! ha! Guess he is a rich man. What he don't know, ain't worth----" 'Most happy, I'm sure. Delighted, dear madam, certainly." "How are yer? I kin help yer with the Sixth, I kin; and as to Gam- mony   "  I'm told, dear sir, you know every inch of Cali- fornia; and as my dear Robert is going out in the Electric Eel  " "So pleased to hear you liked my ' Union Square to Hyde Park Corner;' and, as 'Belgravia to Fifth Avenue' is coming out next week    "DDo let me say a word to my dear Mr. Giffofd. Did you meet the Von Donks in Europe?" "Well, I never! On Blobb's authority?" "No, the descrip- tion of the carriage was in the Optimist--same column with Dan Prior, the nigger minstrels, and Sloggins the gentlemanly   398        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, butcher of Ninety-ninth street." "Show!" "'Fact." "Mr. Gifford, I beg your pardon, I'm sure; but I must speak with him. Tile pleasure of shaking hands with you, sir-lhonor- never forget-- "Made fifty thousand in Consolidated Under- ground." "Is that so?" "' Tweren't, 'twas Harlem River!" "Anyhow, he made it in a week."' "I must interdoose Mr. Gollop and Miss Gollop."  "You're very kind, I'm sure." "And if I can't put ye through, me and Doke here, I'll bust!" "Don't, please, don't push!" "I can't get any nearer!" "Mr. Gifford!-Dr. Aloe!-Two such distinguished people ought to know each other." 'i You, sir, bein', as you air, the architeck of your own fortunes," etc., etc., etc. The adulation Gifford encountered was truly sickening enough, but-what man of his years and experience would?-he did not attribute it entirely to his wealth. He stood and breathed a great deal of the intoxicating incense; enough, perhaps, to be- wilder and confuse a clearer head and a maturer judgment than his own; and then, feeling a sudden sense of shame, he turned to'extricate himself and to find his friend. Clinton had con- trived to spirit his blue-eyed charmer into some quiet nook or another, where he was flirting desperately, and oblivious of everything on earth but Flora Dimity. As Hugh, with great difficulty, struggled through and out of the legion of his adorers, he met the eyes of Marian fixed earnestly upon him. Her face wore a smile; but he thought, and thought truly, that, except- ing one, it was the saddest smile he had ever seen there. CHAPTER XV11. Ix is a sad consolation when we have, with such shifts as we may, provided against any dire calamity, to have the sound- ness of our judgment attested by the event. -When Marian had stipulated for that year's delay which was to gauge the steadiness of Gifford's love, as well as to serve in a measure as an atonement for what she thought not altogether right in his treatment of Virginia Chester, she had attached far less signifi- cancy to the first object than to the second.- There seemed to be no special reason why a love which had outlived a year of separation should droop during a year of frequent intercourse and promised fruition. .And Marian, although far more fiee of   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        399 vanity than most of her sex, could not be entirely unconscious of her own exceeding loveliness, or of the strong fascination she exercised without effort upon those around her. But as the fatal, never-pausing time rolled on, she began to believe that the prudence of her stipulation was wretchedly ver- ified. She saw Hugh often, and, when with her, no woman, however exacting, need have been dissatisfied with his tender- ness, his attention, his marked acknowledgment of the cherished spell which bound him. But all that she heard in his absence seemed to Marian fll of gloom and foreboding. Report said, with a malignant persistency which enforced con- viction, that Gifford was becoming dissipated. His household, which had been noted for order, regularity, and unusual decorum for that of a bachelor, was now declared to be the scene of nightly revels, and of reckless extravagance. Clinton Parapet, who was belying the promise of a well-spent youth in a most unexpected manner, was Iiugh's constant companion, and the pair vied with each other, it was said, in wildness and excess. The fact was, report exaggerated infamously, the truth being substatially that one young man was endeavoring to escape from ennui and the disgust which sprung from his political researches and experi- ence, while the other was trying to forget Flora Dimity. But worse than this was busily hinted, and Marian heard the worst. Mr. Rivingstone too, standing as he did in the place of a father, and having a strong title to her respect and affection, from having, with untiring skill and industry, pursued an investigation of the last importance to Marian's position and future welfare, felt it his duty to lay before her such truths as he thought she might fairly weigh, pripor to committing her happiness irrevocably to the keeping of Hugh Gifford. The investigation, so momentous and so difficult, wag also of a most delicate description. It involved nothing less than the fact whether, legally speaking, Marian was a fiee woman or a slave. Before Mr. Rivingstone had undertaken it, she would actually have been liable to be/arrested and-sent to the South, under the provisions of the Fugitive SlaveLaw. But Rivingstone, who had acted as her dead father's legal adviser, had drawn, under his instructions, papers of manumissionfor Marian's mother, which took effect prior to her infant's birth : that these papers were ex- ecuted as well as prepared, the lawyer could swear; the question was as to their whereabouts or present'existence. Nor was this all. The estate had gone to the legal heirns; but a large accumulation of money, which Rivingstone knew his friend to have saved as the surplus of a heavy income, was no-   4U          MARIAN ROOKE; OR, where to be found, although he was equally certain Mr. Rooke f had intended it for Marian. It was in connection with these im-. portant subjects that she had been summoned from California * in the same connection that Rivingstone had gone to the South a short time after; and in the same connection that the party had subsequently sailed for Europe. The lawyer's efforts then pointed to the momentous objects of metamorphosing his ward from a poor runaway slave to a wealthy and firee woman. In the respect of securing her liberty dejure as well as de facto, he had already substantially succeeded. The less important, but highly desirable, pecuniary consummation, was not yet achieved, although it was nearer than, with profes- sional prudence, he thought it wise to declare. His services and his sincere regard for the child of an old and much attached friend were warmly estimated by Marian ; and it scarcely needed personal qualities of a nature at once dignified and lovable to make her regard him with almost filial considera- tion.  When, therefore, with no little hesitancy and compunc- tion, he spoke on the subject of Gifford's course of life, she was  prepared to listen with deference and attention. He is without doubt abrilliant young man," said the lawyer, and could achieve anything with steadiness and perseverance. But he has a fastidious taste, which makes him keenly sensitive to the repulsive features of any particular pursuit or vocation, and which blinds him to, the redeeming ones. Yet he has for- tune, and tells me he was born poor, without explaining the change. You have known him longer. Should you think stead- fastness-persistenc y in a given object-were strong character. istics of his?" "No,' said truthful Marian, sadly; 'I should fear,. on the"con- trary, that they were not." "He   spoke of entering political life," continued Mr. Riving- stone, "of a desire to serve his country. But the months have rolled by, and he seems to have attempted nothing in such a di- rection.  His pursuits are said to be of the most frivolous char- acter. This, of course, he might easily outlive. But worse is said :  rumor is swift to magnify such things i yet, when testi- mony appears quite universal and concurrent as to a man's habits, it is unfortunately apt to be well founded in fact." "I  know it." "Believe me, I  should be slow in attempting to sway your judgment-at least, on such a subject. Nor would I counsel you to believe one-half of what you hear. But it is right you should   i!   THE QtEST FOR FORTUNE.       401  be upon your guard; and my duty, under all the circumstances,    would be but imperfectly performed, 'did I not put you so.," 'He is, as you say, very fastidious," said Marian, slowly, as if i  seeking something to say in extenuation. 'L A strange mixture  of caution and impetuosity. I don't think bad habits would mas-  ! ter him. He is too proud for that. But they might go faro    ; enough to make those who loved him miserable."  4 Ay," said Rivingstone, mournfully, "there are many who    i I keep a fair front to the world, too selfish to risk its penalties, too i cowardly to face its fiowns, who yet indulge vile passions in se- ?! cret to that degree as to make a hell of their firesides."    Ojj "He would never do that!" exclaimed Marian, quickly.      ':  Hugh is not selfish--not at least in great things, and he is any-  thing--" and her thoughts wandered back to the past. "OhM  anything but cowardly. But " j  "Nay, I was not describing him, but what others have be-  come. Let us trust that report is exaggerated, and that all may  yet be well. My duty is done in uttering a warning, and I am,  :  sure you will not misconstrue its motives."          ? Mi "Indeed, dear sir, I will not." "For I shall only strive to do what your dear father, had he ! i lived, would have done; and my mistakes will be only those of : prudence or over-jealous care of what I regard as a sacred    i trust." ,  "And you shall have," cried Marian, with one of her old out- i bursts, which were rarer now, "' no less than a daughter's affec- '  tion and obedience."                      :! There were many conferences like this. Hints and suggles-  :;  tions, rather than direct statements on his part; partial defences : and acknowledgments on hers. There were occasions when     i;:  Rivingstone heard what he knew would have given his wl'ard  great pain to hear; and he suppressed such things as honorable ;  men will, giving the accused the benefit of the doubt where great : room existed for misconstruction. To his eyes and to thosb of  the world, so, far as it took the pains to form an opinion on the iJi subject, Gifford was simply going by a very much frequented and commonplace road to destruction. To his conscience there  : was nothing for it but'to keep so noble a girl as Marian Rooke }  frim becoming the young man's travelling companion s        But Marian Rooke herself saw deeper than this. She saw that Gifford was scarcely more ih his right groove, in his proper niche,  when scattering unearned wealth among aimless companions in  ;i j the gold-worshipping city, than he was while delving as a labor- er at Armstrong's Bar. There were more people of culture and  l            o . n   402         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, of leisure about him, but there were no more people of higher aims. The men with whom he had unhappily been brought in contact in this Babylon had poisoned the very springs of his ambition, by showing how miserably poor and worthless whs all that he once prized and could now strive for. Truly he should have more strength of mind than to be led thus tenderly to see only one side of the picture. But it was the office of true love- clear-sighted, womanly, wifely love--to make him see the other; and then, ah! how much with such aid and encouragement he had the powers to achieve! With--such thoughts -and convictions as these, Marian might have gone on despite truth, or despite calumny, firm in purpose, to fulfil her share of the bargain--if he asked it-at the close of the year. But there was something else to traverse the thoughts and to shake, if not to reverse, the convictions. Hers was not a nature to harbor jealousy. That ignoble pas- sion was, of all others, the one most foreign to Marian's pharacter. When whispers reached her ears of attentions pointedly offered by Gifford to Edith Parapet-attentions graciously received-. she gave them little heed. She was not so ignorant of the pre- tentions of that proud family, as not to know that, for all Hugh's advantages, they would look for greater and higher ones in a suitor whose alliance they would be disposed to favor ; nor could she believe that her betrothed could wittingly be guilty of any act of treachery toward herself. Still, there was more to lend color to the rumor in the manner of the parties inculpated when together, and yet in the eye, of the world, than could be quite agreeable to an affianced woman; and Hugh's frequent visits to the Parapet mansion, and his all but inseparable intimacy with its heir, added strength to the current reports. When the repetition of these stories began to be irksome to her, Marian, instead of inviting an explanation from Hugh--she was too proud for that-sought refuge from the gossip of the world in the country house -of Mr. Rivingstone, situated some dozen miles up the North River. Here dwelt her guardian's sister, and here Marian was always secure of quiet and an affec- tionate welcome. After midwinter she spent most of her time there, rarely coming to the metropolis; and Gifford, after being frequently disappointed when he sought her at the town house, took umbrage, and absented himself for some weeks. Estrange- ment seemed to be growing up between them, yet still it need only be temporary and trifling. A few words of frank expla- nation, of affectionate acknowledgment, of regret for past errors, of fresh .promises for the future, would have been quite enough,   ,THE QUEST FOR FrORTUNE.       403 'so fir as the gentle girl was concerned, to set Gifford's suit all right again One cold miserable day in early March, Marian came to town to do some necessary shopping, and the modest brougham of iMr Rivingstone awaited her without; she had just entered the famous " store" of Mr. Dimity, when she was encountered by one of the Drierly Shades.' There was an expression of cada- verous joy on the countenance of this lady, which, to those who knew her best, portended the dissemination of something sad, or painful, or scandalous; and even Marian, who knew her but shghtly, would fain have passed with a courteous recognition, butthe Shadow would not have it so. She knew that Marian had been from town, and that, therefore, what she had to inflict might have the exquisite zest of a fresh and unexpected wound. Furthermore, there had been some slight political coolness be- tween Mr. Rivingstone and Mr. Drierly of late; and the female Drierlyv always treated such matters with the bitterest personal animosity. Lastly, she had a vague notion of the engagement of Gifford and Marian,-vague, because neither had thought it necessary to publish the fact to the world; and what she had to say would at once gratify her curiosity, while it inflicted a pang on the near friend of .one weho had dared to differ with a Drierly. "Dear Miss Rooke," she ejaculated, with that cordiality of mnanner the family kept largely in stock for people who rode in broughams. "Such a pleasure to see you. ' I know you've been out of town. The country must be very dreary at this season. But, of course, you have your reasons." 'i Reasons of convenience and friendship only," replied Marian, smiling ; 4 and I go but a short distance, not much further than a Broadway omnibus will carry one." "Oh, indeed! Then, of course, you can go to the opera, or to parties of an evening, and all that?" "Not quite so readily as while staying in town; still I can do so for a particular occasion." '"That's so nice, now. If you only would come to our ctnver- saziowe next Tuesday. Count Poppo, who married our sweet poetess, you know, Maud Squelch, is going to read a paper on the medimval rennaissance of Abyssinian art. What a love of a pop- lin that is! And Mr. Clinton Parapet is coming, and Mr. Gifford; of course you've heard, by-the-by?' "Heard what?" "Oh, about the engagement!" "Whose engagement "   404-        MARIAN ROOKE; OR, "Why, all the world is talking about it. Surmise is turns into certainty. The winter has been lively with suspicions, an the spring blossoms with facts. Mr. Gifford is to marry Edit Parapet!' Marian made no reply, but she turned very pale, and th Shadow saw her arrow had gone home. "Unless," pursued the relentless Apparition, "all signs an omens are to be translated backwards, the happy event will no be long postponed." "What signs?  What omens?"  asked Marian, steadily though her tall figure shook for a moment, and she moved aY if to get near a chair. "Together always at the opera- tete-a-tete in the saddle or when driving in the Park-the happy man domesticated at the family mansion-Miss Parapet coloring whenever his name is mentioned-Miss Parapet's eyes following him wherever he moves in society-Mr. Gifford buying a lovely set, opals and diamonds, at Bullet and Green's--and being caught in the act by Wirt Pinckney-and she wearing them the night after at the academy -etc., etc. ; and what would you have more?" "What, indeed?" said Marian, more faintly, but sinking quietly into a seat. "SoI may put you down as certain, may Inot, dear Miss Rooke? And we shall have the great pleasure to see you on Tuesday?" "Perhaps-thanks-yes," replied Marian, mechanically, as the Shade glided triumphantly away. The rumorwas gaining strength-vitality; was becoming com. promising to a degree that threatened the worst--its verification. Alas, for the days when both Hugh and Marian believed them- selves penniless, with the world all before them, and nothing but hope to cheer them on! Alas, for the deal old days at Arm- strong's Bal; where nought but the knowledge of mutual love had been wanting to make an earthly paradise! From this mo- ment Marian- began to realize a terrible truth-the trutlhthat Gif- ford's wealth was somehow a barrier to their love stronger than the poverty had been which parted him from Virginia Chester.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        405 CHTAPTERi XVIRU. "GIVE me a reward!" cried Clinton Parapet, as he bounded into Gifford's breakfast-room one bright morning in spring. "For what?"' "For the most praiseworthy thing in life, inventing you a new pleasure! Here we are, bored and hipped to our heart's discon- tent; having done operas, theatres, balls, parties, artists' recep- tions, wedding breakfasts, racing on the Bloomingdale Road, bet- ting on the Centreville Track, showing our paces in his park of parks, even indulging-for your blessed delectation, not mine, re- member-in several political meetings; what is there left for us but gentlemanly suicide, going abroad, or, dernier ressort, the inven- tion of a new pleasure?"9 "But vou see," said Hugh, looking rather jaded and woebe- gone for a handsome young man of fortune with uncommonly fine prospects, " but you see, after all, I have the advantage of vou. At the moment, I grant, we appear to be in the same cat- egory; we've struggled through the. season, doing no good for ourselves or for any one else ; we've sown our seed of sight-see- ing, idling, pleasure-seeking, call it what you will, and have reaped a plentiful crop of satiety. Good. But now comes the per contra. You have nothing before you but to go through the same agricultural process over again, while I have a project to carry out, involving not only honorable occupation, but profit and service to the common weal!" "Ah, your Congressional scheme!   I give you a twelve- month to weary of that. You'll find a year of the sweet soci- etsy of tinker, tailor, weaver, and bellows-maker, quite sufficient, believe me. The batch sent on last fall, after you arrived, in- deed, will make a more charming Zoological Garden than ever." "I've laid my plans, and must' carry them out. You see Clyde, and Ingott, and Doke are' all interested in my success- have all promised or sold their aid, and must not be disappoint- ed. If I make a blunder, to me the penalty. But take a seat, a cigar, and a cup of coffee, and untfold the new pleasure." '; Briefly, then," said Clinton, accepting all three offers, "' un- like our previous mundane joys, it contains nothing of the earth, earthy. It is to be enjoyed in a more pellucid element."   406         aAN ROOKE; OR. "In the air, I suppose?-Chateaur en Fpaygne or balloons?, "Neither, good (Edipus. What say you to the sea? The open, bounding, tumbling, and all the rest of it, sea?" "Not going abroad again?" "Stupid! How can I leave my adorable, my blue-eyed maid -my inestimable Flora, just as the season comes when she strews the earth with flowers?" "Perpend, then." "Know that I am member of one society whose association involves neither the aid of Dokes nor Ingotts; which craves the countenance of neither Optimnist nor Pessimist; which exists without the hand of the City Government -to sustain, or the dirty fingers of Milesian politicians to pilfer; a society to which Neptune is the only god, and the voice of the sovereign people is as nothing." "And which is called--" "The Yacht Club, potent statesman; which creates and per- fects most delicate, beautiful, and swift-winged engines, for fly. ing far away from the pomps and vanities, the unclean streets and the unwashed population, the unseemly sights and the pol- luting smells of this worshipful city, all of which flourish most consumedly at the approach of the dog days; engines whereof the most delicate, the most beautiful, and the most swift-winged is now the heir-loom of the Parapets." "Bravo!  And you propose to take wing thereby and fly away?" C Even so. Yet not prematurely. It is as yet too early in the season for a lengthy cruise, and our Regatta-yearly test of speed for the various craft-comes not until much later. But you must know that the Ariadne-such is the name of our beauty--has rivals; prominent among which is one built only last summer by Wirt Pinckney. His charmer, the Sylphide, was the winner last season when we were in Europe. Boast- ful with this success, he challenges me fora preliminary contest, to take place soon after the first of May, and I have taken up his gage." "And how do the boats compare as to size?" "As like as two peas. Indeed, Pinckney's was modelled di- rectly from mine-a base imitation! Yet still there are one or two super-refined points whereupon our skipper believes the Ariadne still mav keep her advantage. We're each about a hundred and fifty as to tonnage, and show canvas enough for two hundred.  By-and-by, if you have leisure, I will show you some of the best shooting in the world, beyond the Capes   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        407 of Delaware. Meanwhile, with plenty of decent wine, provis- ions, and havanas to match, and a picked company, we'll have our race, and clear out the winter's cobwebs with an early taste of old ocean's champagne! What say -you?" ' Oh, count on me, of course, and many thanks. That is to say, up to the first of June; afterwards, I believe, I belong to my country." ("Unhappy man! For about a month then you are free, and aiterwards  "Afterwards, stump speaking, letter writing, vote concilia- ting; in a word, capital-making, until the period of the great struggle in the autumn." "Appalling prospect! And at best, how lame and impotent the conclusion! However, it's no affair of mine, except as having a certain moderate lien on your society. Mind, you'll never find grace again in Edith's eyes when once you don the scurvy harness." '"I shall resort to unheard-of devices to make my peace. Besides, after all, I may fail." "Not when Doke is interested in the result, believe me. Only you must not scrutinize his doings too closely. Ask no questions, and get no lies, will be his motto at election time." "Still, the fight will be a sharp one; and, if defeated, pity may perhaps overcome the horror inspired by my crime." Like many brothers, Clinton was blind to what scarcely any one else so close to the parties would have failed to suspect- his sister's partiality for Hugh Gifford. He liked him person- ally, and was gratified that the family had extended him, upon the indorsement of his introduction, rather uqusual attentions. Bnt, in addition to a general persuasion that no female Parapet, at least, could marry any one without a name, there was the common fraternal obtusity to aid in keeping him in the dark. Besides, he had heard of H-ugh's engagement to Marian, which, although it had been little discussed between them, or much thought of by Clinton at all, would have directly suggested itself to his mind, had the possibility of any tender relation be- tween Edith and Gifford once entered there. "Edith shall be of our party," said Clinton, " and you can have the way for your peace in advance." "Agreed. I suppose some one else," added Hugh signifi- cantlv, "will be of the party as well ." "It will-require management," replied Clinton, puffing blue rings speculatively into space, " but with adroitness it may be ac- complished. Wirt, of course, will have lots of people, and so   408         MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, shall we. We start from the same place at Hoboken, so that nothing more easy than a trifling mistake or two." "I see. Only I think you're really playing a rather dangerous game. To amuse oneself is one thing, but to run a very great risk  " "My dearfellow, one must have excitement, and where i there excitement when a man grows blase, save it includes some spice of danger?" "But if the danger threatens a fatal catastrophe?" "Nonsense! We play with pyrotechnics, not bomb-shells. Besides, after all, grave Mentor, what do you know about war?" Gifford knew more about it, in his sense, than the excitement. loving Mr. Parapet supposed; but judiciously held his peace, content in his office of discreet adviser, with Clinton's assurances that nothing in the nature of grave hostilities was included in his prospective plans. Both Marian and Edith had played during the winter a game in which womanly pride had more to do than purposed dissimu- lation. I do not mean to compare their characters. They were as unlike, in most respects, as two women well could be; but they shared in common this one particular resolution, that Gif- ford should not see, whatever his motives may have been, that his-behavior had caused them any jealous pain as regards the other. Edith felt, after hearing of his engagement, that she had per- mitted herself to become far more interested in Gifford than his conduct had justified, even if she had ever seriously contempla- ted relations to which, in truth, she had not given a thought. Still she did not quite estimate arightly the strength of that in- terest; and when she coolly laid down for herself the task of continuing to meet Hugh, and to conduct their intercourse pre- cisely as if she had never felt toward him except as a friend, and that in a manner implying all their previous intercourse had been exactly of the same nature, and no other, she committed a seri- ous elrror. I hopeit is unnecessary to say that Gifford was not a coxcomb. It was not needful that he should be one in order to be pleased with the obvious liking of a lovely, fashionable, and greatly admired young lady who had chosen to distinguish him from among a crowd of attending admirers, any of whom would have become for a look her willing slave. He thought she must know of his engagement, but that that knowledge did not prevent her --as indeed, why should it?-from regarding him as a friend.   THE QUEST FOR FOi'rTUrE.       409 True, the subject, strangely enough, was never mentioned be- tween them; but this fact, if it presented itself, was quickly dismissed from his mind. He was, in a manner, intoxicated by the unaccustomed glitter, adulation, and luxury of his position, and his judgment was, for the time, stultified and disarmed. It suited Edith, in spite of a real pain at heart, which might have taught her such a course was neither right nor politic, to have Gifford in attendance upon her at the opera, in the park, and at balls as much as ever. Her wishes conveyed in a hun- dred nameless ways received implicit obedience, and Hugh, with- out the least idea of doing an injustice to the noble girl he had asked to be his wife, wasl ulled into an impression by-her silence- and if she were content, who had a right to object?--that every- thing in his conduct was confessedly, or tacitly, what it should be. Thus matters ran on in the same groove, in the same routine, throughout the winter. Hugh' attended Marian in society on one occasion, and Edith on another; escorted his fiancee to a ball to-night, drove in the park with Miss Parapet to-morrow. Of course remarks came at length in proper orders; first of sur- prise, then irony, and, finally, condemnation. But Marian, although not altogether the Marian to Hugh she had been, while he, poor dazed fool, was all unconscious of the priceless treasure he was idly jeopardizing, was yet kind and patient, and tried now and then to rouse him from the ominous intellectual and moral lethargy into which he was sinking. This, after a season, she began to fear was hopeless; and, fatal change! although she loved him still, Hugh began to lose her respect. His percep- tions were not filmed to this as to some other things, and his dislike of the delay she had stipulated for reinforced his annoy- ance at finding himself sinking in her esteem. Then came peri- ods of coolness, distance, almost alienation, interrupted by bursts of passionate fondness, for-he loved her very, very dearly; but the chasm between them had opened, the delicate feather of the wedge had entered, and these are things which neither narrow nor go backward. Alas, for the wretched, wretched gold that was working so much misery! Alas, for the boon that poor Ike, in his simple gratitude, had striven so hard to bestow, thinking, poor innocent as he was, that the philosopher, Hugh Gifford, well knew what would buy him happiness! Marian was kind and patient. But, although long-suffering and loving, she was a woman, and a very proud one. She was a woman with a torrent of hot Southern-blood coursing through 18   "O         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, her veins, which required all the force of an uncommonly well balanced brain to subjugate and control it. She said nothing during the months of the winter. Rumor, however painful and humiliating its whispers, she could afford to despise. At worst she could lay bare her mind to Gifford at the end of the year, and give him--oh, cruel, dismal thought!-the dismissal Which pride, self-respect, his own happiness as it appeared, would render necessary. She was kind and patient. But, when she heard repeated over and over again the deliberate statement of his engagement to Edith Parapet, her patience yielded at last, and she resolved to bring matters to an explicit understanding' Calmly, but with a heart nearly bursting from the effort of self-command, she told Gifford all she had heard.  She offered to bring their engagement to an end then and there. She reminded. him that to cover such a possibility of change, the year of probation had been agreed upon, and expressed her readiness to concede in terms what had thus been implied. "Not for fear of my own constancy," she said, "did I make that stipulation. Let it meet the contingency for which it was intended. I can share no man's heart, would deprive no other of a fraction of it. - I do not blame you, her, any one, only this must come to an end. - Your hold on my esteem had been the greater, were it ended before. The love of such a woman, so situated, with such advantages, such position, such aspirations, may be better suited to your altered prospects than mine could have been. Let it be so, but let there be no division, no par- celling out in shares, of love and affection. Let it end--once -now, and forever!"' There was no mistaking the flashing eye, the outstretched arm, the erect, lithe- figure, all quivering as it vas, the heaving bust, which responded as unmis'takably as her expressive face itself to any powerful emotion. There was no mistake as to her resolution or purpose, and Hugh made none.  He was as- tonished, confounded, for the explosion had been long in coming -so long, when just as great a reason existed, so far as his con- science could advise him, for it to burst forth, that it seemed amazing it should burst forth at all. But he loved Marian very dearly.  And, open to enervating influences as he might be, as unhappily he had shown himself to be, there was that in Gifford which ever made him rise so as to be equal to any oc- casion, however great, to face any dilemma, however bewilder- ing. Marian was in no mood to be readily pacified. She became   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       4" so, however, before he left her. He protested the entire falsity of the story she had heard. It had color, without doubt; he had been heedless, foolish, vain, but not intentionally guilty, nor deliberately disloyal. Edith was a most attractive person, a most brilliant one, but never, never could she have inspired the love he felt for Marian. Nor did he believe she had the remo- test thought of inspiring it. It was a blunder, a stupid, mean- ingless blunder, which should be at once corrected and atoned. He would cease to visit altogether at the Parapets; take any steps-Marian should herself dictate them, and they should be religiously observed. Most of these asseverations Hugh delivered very appropri- ately on his knees; delivered them with all the eloquence, the passion, and, above all, the sincerity which the critical nature of the emergency demanded, and he earned his reprieve. But, al- though her resolutions were beaten down, her suspicions-lulled, her confidence revived by the fiery ardor, the outpoured ex- planations of her repentant lover, Marian's feelings had received a shock which caused their reconciliation to partake more of the nature of a truce than of a lasting peace. Fire there must be where so much smoke had been; it was for the future to show whether it was to be altogether extinguished. CHAPTER X IX. NEW YORK enjoys one supreme advantage more important than its many others, and which will go further to make it great as the years roll on than all the rest combined: it is washed on all sides by the salt sea.  Neptune strives hard to undo the dirty work of civic councillrs, by sweeping with his purifying surge through the quays and slips and wharfs, and 'thus, at least twice during the day, he makes sweet and whole- some the water and air which defective drainage and cloud- less skies have done so much to pollute. It is one of the nu- merous instances in this couutry where nature does so much to confer blessings which are quietly cited as proofs of the wis- dom of man. What a glorious harbor! Swelled with the volume of the magnificentHudson, the inner bay affords an expanse of full five-and twenty square miles, whose entrance, like that of San   "2        MARIAN .ROOKE; OR, Francisco, is through a portal of scarcely one in width. Gem- med with green islets, circled with purple hills, brimming with the tributary floods of the mountain region to the North, guarded at throat and channel-line by sweeps of snowy ramparts where the starry banner floats over hundreds of heavy guns, there are few places on earth whose approach inspires-such ideas of space and beauty and strength as does New York harbor. There is not, truly, the majesty of distant pinnacle and mountain top which keep guard over its occidental sister; but there is a variety, an extent and a panoramic effect of undulating' and cultivated loveli- ness which are all its own. Beyond the Narrows rolls the far Atlantic. . In the sultry mid- summer days, when the thermometer rises to a hundred degrees in the shade, pleasure or health seekers may leave the city piers, and, in less than an hour, be drinking the inspiriting breezes from the great reservoir of the open sea; a blessed privilege, as those who have been able to enjoy it can well attest. But there are days long before midsummer when the air hangs still and murky about the island city, and when a draught of fresh air from the sea is a grateful tonic to its denizens; days when a foretaste of what July and August are to bring is afforded by a close, thick atmosphere, which dims the sun without showing any definite cloud; days when subtle and mysterious odors steal, about the cross streets which run to the rivers, and occasionally venture into Broadway, to remind people of a prospective luxury so abun- dant in the solstice of Sirius. It was on such a day, when a gray veil hung over the town, although the sky and sea beyond the Narrows were of a laughing blue, that some of our friends were to be found on the deck of the Ariadne, standing outwards about S. S. E. from Sandy Hook. At about a cable's length abeam glided the Sylphide, the air just filling her towering canvas, while her pennon and streamers now flew straight from their halyards, and anon fell idly and flut- tered by their sides. It was two o'clock, and they had been waiting since nine for such a breeze as would give fair opportunity for the projected trial of speed. Earlier in the day it had been well-nigh calm, so that all the enormous spread of sail the two yachts could show had been needed to force them slowly through a sea like a mill- pond, which reached from Fort Hamilton to the Battery. Outside the Narrows, delicate little waves were tumbling and wrestling merrily in the sun-beams, but the zephyrs hardly ruffled their crests, and the sun was falling before there was wind enough to keep the sails full without that intermittent flapping backwards   HE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         413 so discordant to the ears of expectant yachtsmen, and, ah! how far more so to those who have longvoyages before them. By four bells however, for nothing else would the bluejackets of a day call twoo'clock, the breeze freshened, and the craft werer unning about fiveknots as they nmadelongtacks back and forth athwartthe Hook. When the sun should fall an hour or two lower, the wind was confidently expected to fieshen into a stiff breeze, and the race was to be from the Hook straight through the Narrows, and around the lighthouse on Robbin's Reeft If neatness and elegance could make a schooner swift, the Ariadne should surely have been second to none. Nothing could exceed the beauty of her run, the taper grace of her spars, the compact finish of her wood-work, the taut simplicity of her rig- ging. Neither, to descend from externals, could more luxury and convenience have been united than were to be found in her cabin. The furniture, the tiny state-rooms, the miniature rack of arms, the lockers, the table gear, were each as perfect of their kind as they well could be. There was -every appearance then, both alow and aloft, of the most sagacious and comprehensive adaptation of means to ends ; and an acute observer would have found such evidences ofsuccess in aught she might undertake about the Ariadne, that nought could have made him doubt of it until he had seen the Sylphide. That-rival vessel, in truth, seemed quite as perfect; and, untried as both were, no means remained to settle their respective pretensions, save the practical test on which their owners now alike were bent. Bang went Mr. Pinckney's swivel for about the tenth time since noon. "Ha! ha!" laughed Clinton Parapet, "Wirt grows impatient as the day gets older ; but we'll cool his zeal before sundown, unless the saucy Ariadne falls far short of her promise." "No fear, sir," said John Brime, ex-NewYork pilot, and now skipper of the Ariadne, "if we onlyget wind. We're nigh enough alike to be sisters, save and exceptin' allus she is a few shavins lighter aloft. Jest the odds that we kin kerry our upper story kites when she'll have to haul her'n." "That is to say, in a light breeze she has the advantage, you i  think ."  "You see, sir, she draws a thought to windward of us. This air, light as it'is, is flawy. When it puffs up we hold our own,  and something better. But the difference 'll be in kerryin' all in a stiffish blow." "Old Boreas is too sedate for that to-day, I fear." "I don't know that, sir. That smokeyonder that's been hug-          *,   "4         MARIAN ROOKE ; OR, gin' Long Island all the mornin' like a sweetheart, is a curlin' its outer edges like a tickled caterpillar. Jest see it hist there, sir, to the north'ard and east'ard ; and see that ribbon of clear dark blue opening under the haze!" "And that's wind, is it ." "Enough to make the water bile under our keel afore sundown, or I'm a lubber. Howsumever, it's easier to say it than to make it come, and seein's believin'. Ease away a bit on that jib-sheet, will ye, Jim? The wind's a pint free, and ye've got her as tight as a drum." The two schooners were very much alike, in length and in symmetry, in the moulding of their runs, and the extreme sharp- ness of their bows ; alike in- the cut and size of their sails, and in the sumptuous fittings of their cabins; alike in the inviting re- pasts spread in their cabins, and plenteously flanked by costly vines. But in respect of their passengers the resemblance cer- tainly ceased. These aquatic excursions not uncommonly bring together rather incongruous assemblages, and this was -no excep- tion. By an ingenious tissue of misrepresentations and evasions, Clinton had managed to get his sister on board, in ignorance that Flora Dimity was to be of the party; nor did she detect what she certainly would have resented by refusing to go; until the yacht was irrevocably on her way. The same device cost Clin- ton the company of Hugh Gifford. Mr. Rivingstone and Ma- rian were of Pinckney's party ; and after what had passed, our hero of course was bound to be of the same or neither. On board the Sylphide, too, was Mr. Salathiel Dbke, although nobody knew who invited him; and Mr. Gollop, who scarcely ever quit- ted Gifford now, either night, or day. Moreover, the same party included, besides several pretty girls, chaperoned by a suitable elder of- the Pinckney set, Mr. Clyde, who had returned to town after settling the affairs of the State at Rochester, and Mr. Blobb, who was making an elaborate report ,of the beauties and dimnclsions of the Sylphide for the columns of the Centurio;n. On the other hand, the Ariadne boasted the society of Mr. Bladderly Flytte, who, unmindful of the Drierly rebuke, had obtained permission to introduce his friends, Mr. Randolph Bur- gee and Mr. Walsingham Scuttle ; a couple of Drierly Shades, who, in the absence of pa, were not disinclined to receive atten- tion from those wretched malefactors; divers dignified Parapet- ian connections, chiefly sea-sick; and a representative of the Optimist, who smuggled himself on board by observing that he was a friend of Mr. Gifford's, who had appointed to meet him   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        415 there, a statement which a little reflection would have persuaded Clinton was untrue, but that he was occupied just at the time in admiring those lovely blonde curls of Flora Dimity's which stole so bewitchingly from under her hat. There were these additional points of resemblance between the two yachts, that the conversation on board both chiefly ran on the probable chances of beating the other in the expected contest, and that the copious libations of Messrs. Gollop, Doke, and the representative of the Centurion were fairly paralleled by Messrs. Burgee, Scuttle, and the representative of the Optimist, with this difference, that whereas the first-named couple became, as a result, more thick of speech and more disagreeably familiar as the day wore on, the Southerners only grew more distinct and more studiously punctilious--a philosophical enigma which those who choose may investigate. "I was down on that 'ere island," observed Mr. Gollop, point- ing to a line of white sand as he thirstily disposed of his dozenth cocktail, "with the city authorities, to a clambake last fall; and three o' the aldermen got loaded on apple-jack, and fell asleep in a bath-house, they did. So we jest capsized 'em, doors down, and poured pails o' water all over the top, lettin' on that the tide was comin' in; and whilst the rest on 'em was hollerin' ' murder' and 'let me out,' old Pete M'Snarley sings out, ' If that's so, jest, for God's sake, do put the kag of apple-jack aboard, and let 'em go to sea all serene.' Jack is Pete's bait, jack is." "Ho, ho, hoe " roared the appreciative Doke. "That was about the time they all voted for the Madison Gridiron Bill, weren't it! Dan O'Gorrill swears you wouldn't let 'em out till they promised to vote the thing through fire and water, if need was; and that they all made oath to't, then and there, with the kag o' jack for a Bible." "It took more'n the kag o' jack," said Mr. Gollop, grimly, "you'd better believe. But them stories do very well to pass among the boys. Men o' their kind love their rum, but they don't bait on rum exclusive. If they did I'd be better off--or wuss." With which bewildering statement, Mri Gollop lit a cigar, and again prepared to c' smile." "Do you understand their jargonS" asked Eldon Clyde, remarking that Hugh seemed to overhear the conversation just described; for they stood by an open skylight which rose from the cabin through the quarter-deck. "Quite well enough, I believe; both gentlemen have favored me with abundance of it of late." "And what do you think of them?" pursued Clyde, with a   MARLKIN ROOKE; OR,     *  grave smile, "candidly now, and, of course, between our- selves ?'' - "Candidly then, I think them" fair specimens of a class, un- happily'too numerous, who make a complete trade of the weak- nesses and crimes of thei' fellow-men; and who utilize universal suffrage in the, most profitable manner, by buying and selling the poor rapscallions whom it places in office. I have undertaken to do something wherein you tell me their services may be made valuable, but I cannot the less despise them, or regret the work- ings of a system which invites the existence of such a class, and renders their misdeeds possible." Yet you are not unwilling to buy their help ?" queried the older man, archly. "Very unwilling," replied Gifford, reddening; "but dislik- ing to undertake a project and then to abandon it-ignorant of the modus operandi, and so forced to depend on the teachings of others-I strive to reconcile my conscience to an application of the maxim that, being at Rome, I may do as Romans do." "Come," said Clyde, more seriously, "the system is not so bad after all. What you justly condemn is notoriously prevalent in our large seaboard cities,' where is massed a vast immigrant population, but there is little or none of it in the greater part of the country-the vast agricultural interior. Our theory lies in choosing the lesser of two evils, or rather, so to speak, in over- coming a considerable urban evil by a preponderating rural good. I'm not one of those who think that ethics and politics can be made utterly distinct, still you cannot make them convertible terms. The gist of the whole matter is, that when everything is said and done, the moral, steadfast and homogeneous country always out-votes, and consequently controls the brawling, giddy, and hybrid town." "I ought to go into political life in the country," said Hugh, thoughtfully, "if at all." "Why, to tell you the truth," said Mr. Clyde, laughing,  I think you would find it more congenial. Only if you ask my opinion or advice as to what these civic fuglemen can do for you, I give it, mind not ethically, but politically." "And if a lady's opinion were ever likely to be asked upon such a profound subject," laughed Marian, for the speakers had come close to where she was seated during their discussion, "I should offer as mine, that whoso toucheth pitch shall betdefiled !" "Alas, fayre ladye !" said the politician, with a courtly bow, "the dirty work of the nation must be done by some one, and I   need not tell so thoughtful an observer that we cannot ll be Parapets." A blush rose to the lovely face, which was not altogether one of pleasure, and Hugh looked a little embarrassed. "Must the work needs be of such a description," asked Ma- rian with her simple straightforwardness, because not done by Parapets ?" "I'll tell you one thing, Miss Rooke, which won't be done by a Parapet," cried Wirt Pinckney, coming up in great good humor, (.and that is, to beat the Sylphide!" "You feel sure of that, Mr. Pinckney? Take care! Over- confidence is no augur of success." "Oh, I don't reckon without my host. Our blue jackets tell me that we can beat them famously in light winds, and it seems we are to have no other. Their top-hamper is weightier than ours, they say, and if the breeze steadies, we shall draw away from them in no time." "Bravo!" cried Eldon Clyde. " There's nothing like being on the winning side." "Especially," amended Marian, "especially, Mr. Clyde, if it's the right one." "Ah, stern moralist, you did not hear Mr. Gifford and me just now drawing distinctions between politics and ethics." "Distinctions! If you do indeed draw them, it suggests an explanation which has often puzzled me." As to what ?" ' The reason why politicians object to let women vote." "You shall vote here, Miss Rooke," said Pinckney, "and carry the election, though you be in a minority. Shall it be Chambertin or Champagne ? 'Tis long past noon, and we haven't spliced the main brace-quite an indispensable ceremony for sailors." "Why then, Chambertin, Mr. Pinckney; much the more sober and unpretending, and the Sylphide makes foam and sparkle enough as it is." "Champagne for me," quoth Mr. Rivingstone, gaily. "My older blood can stand a fillip, and be none the worse." "Bravo!" cried Clyde; I'll join you so as to have an ally against your fair ward, who seeks to punish me for all the sins, omitted or commiitted, of the day." "Nay, that isn't fair," urged Marian; " only for those of which you avow yourself the champion." "Let me be your Ganymede, Miss Rooke," solicited Mr. Blobb, drawn irresistibly to the spot by the popping of Cham-  -pagne corks, "if not your champion. I'll take the humbler post rather than interfere with so many doughty candidates., For shame, Blobb!. said Wirt 'Pinckney; "I thought yours was only a temperance journal--in point of fact, a teetotaller!9 ,hjr. Pirekney, yotu must give us poorscribblers a little latitude--at least on salt water." Take your: Champagne, Bobb," advised Mr. Clyde, " and may it make your report more sparkling." "The subject needs no stimulus," returned Blobb, gallantly, ' but I'll do my best,"'  "Angels can no more," cried Pinckney. "Here's to Blobb's Champagne and oysters," remarked Mr. Gollop, heraldin his approach with an audible aside, Champagne and oyste is Blobb'sbaits, they are. When I want to capture Blobb, I say, i Champagne and oysters,' and he nibbles quickern a win-k. , 'Ha! h;! ha!" cachinnated Mr. Doke; - I heard somethin'  drop, Mr. Pinckney, and I'm always in at the death! '  Quite right, Mr. Doke. Steward, more Champagne! I do  believe tley'reo trying to put another gaff -topsai,, on the Ar iadne.  Miss Rooke, will you kindly propose a toast?" ' "With much pleasure.  And amay it prove more than a toast, --a prophecy!  Here's success to the Sylphide!" ': "Omnes. Hip! Hip!   Hurrah!" Boom!   boom! boom!  went three great guns from Fort  Hamilton, far away to the northward. Some man-of-war was  coming out. And bang replied the Sylphide's tiny brass bull- dog on her forecastle. The cheer was plainly regardled as a de-  fiance on board the Ariadne, for presently was heard echoing faintly across the water a hurrah in reply. In a moment after, there came cleaving swiftly through the waters of the Narrows,  and firing gun after gun from port and starboard battery, in re-  sponstheto the salutation of the forts, a great war-steaLmer, out-  ward bound. "We   are in august neighborhood," said Clyde, as he counted l thereports. 'Shecarries an ambassador."  "I don't like this 'ere wastin' money and burnin' powder for empty forms," criticized iMr. Gollop. " We don't ketch nothin'  by it. It don't set us ahead any, that folks fires back. Idon't  see the good on't."  "Perhaps not," returned Clyde, coolly; but you see we find  it prudent to respect the representatives of other nations if we  don't respect our own.'                  : "I don't keer how much you keep on respectin' of 'em,"  ;     i   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       419 muttered Gollop as he turned away, ' not a cuss, so long as it X don't cost nuthin'."  "A very fair commentary on much of our popular democ- racy," said Hugh Gifford, bitterly, "which grudges all that  may give dignity to the nation abroad, and nothing which may - '! encourage corruption at home. A liberal outfitfor a foreign minister is decried as anti-republican; and more money is liter- ij ally stolen every year from the people to enrich greasy politi- i; cians in the city of New York alone, than would double thei salaries of every United States minister. commissioner, secre-; tary or consul, the nation maintains abroad."         t ' See, we shall not want for company up the bay,' cried Marian, pointing seaward. The weather had been nearly calm i: for a day or two before, and, indeed, the breeze was but light ?I now. Still it had been sufficient to gather scores of inward- , bound craft, who were now closing in on the eastern horizon  : from every direction, and making what had been an hour or  two before but a lonely blue line, populous with silvery sails. Meanwhile, on board the Ariadne; rather less hilarity pre- i vailed than with the company of the Sylphide, since tLere were - to be found there not only less ease, but more conflicting ele-: C mnents to harmonize. To assuage Edith's annoyance at what she X regarded as a deception practised upon her, and, at the same time! to make ardent love to Flora Dimity; to entertain his other guests, : and to watch the performance of his schooner, constituted an   aggregate of duties which might have taxed even a person of  ! habitually industrious habits; and much more onerous were   l they to a gentleman -so exclusively versed in doing nothing. ! Both Clinton and Edith were irritated by the absence of Gif- ford, although for manifestly different reasons. It -had been at Ai! first arranged that he was to be of the Ariadne party; and not @ until the time of departure was Clinton informed that Hugh found it necessary to make a change, while Edith was ignorant  of it for some time after. The schooners were often quite near i enough to each other, however, to forestall the need of expla- j nations, since all on the deck of one were recognizable from i that of the other.          ' "Pray, Edith, acquit me of any blame in the matter," at whis-  pered Clinton, knowing well how wise it would be for him to i make his peace before reaching home. "' There was a mistake, ' you see; Gifford was to be with us, and Miss Dimity was to go ;L with Pinckney."  ' The latter I disbelieve, so don't repeat it; as to the former, a if Mr. Gifford made an engagement, which he afterwards chosei   420        MARIAN .ROOKE ; OR, to break, it is a question for him to settle with his own sense of politeness, and certainly nothing to me." "He did not break it, not strictly, for he apologized amply before the carriage brought you down, and explained "Well, what?" "That it was important he should see Clyde, who will only be in town for two days, and the opportunity was too good to be missed, and so   " "Mr. Clyde could not possibly be asked on board the Ari- adne?" "On the contrary, he was; but Pinckney happened to ask him first; that's all. Now, like a dear, charming sister as you are, do be a little civil to this poor mnigonn, whom you've fri'iht- ened half out of her wits with your stately ways, and I'll swear to obey you in anything for a month to come--there!"And Clinton flew away to say something civil to pretty Flora, him- self, by way of avant courier. "Monstrous strange, Miss Parapet!" observed Mr. Walsing- ham Scuttle, " that Pinckney should ,iave those very odd people, Gollop and Doke, of his party! Why, I'm told they're almost disreputable?" "They are not of the elite, certainly," said Edith; "but the Pinckneys are a trifle more allied with political circles than ourselves;  and I suppose-they find it to their account to en- dure its penalties now and again.  For my part, I could never believe the game paid for the candle." "I should say not, indeed. Why, they are perfect boors! Quite unresentable, and " "Hist! I beg pardon ; but I feared Miss Drierly might hear you." One of the Shades had indeed just glided towards the cabin door, her customary sallow modifying ominously to a delicate green. "Thanks. I know the creatures visit there; and it seemed to me to be equally odd." "The -same reason.  They have rgreat strength, great in- fluence "with the masses; one through political connections, the other through a heavy and unscrupulous purse." "Ah, those are implements which, in our, section are usually wielded by gentlemen." "But your section doesn't invite immigration. Voila tout. However, you'll find Mr. -Flytte a capital authority in these mys- teries." "Pardon, for boring you with so dry a subject. You know I   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        421 am quite a neophyte in Northern politics, and too eager to be in-  structed. May I not bring you some fruit, /or a glass of wine i" "Pray take nothing, dear Miss Parapet," urged Miss Drierly, reappearing from the cabin, and looking somewhat more com- posed. "We are to have luncheon presently, and it looks so ex- cessively nice! Really, Mr. Parapet has an exquisite taste in these things." Mr. Parapet piqued himself on his taste in most things-es- pecially in the article of pretty blonds-and he was exhibiting it at the moment, on the opposite side of the deck, with admirable empressement. "A golden sunset!" he murmum d, echoinga suggestion from the lovely creature in the blue hat beside him, and who looked as if she were floating in azure muslin draperies. ' Oh, yes; and a beautiful one, no doubt; yet not so beautiful a gold as certain fairy tresses I know of!" "Nonsense," blushed the conscious Flora; 'nonsense, Mr. Parapet; how can there possibly be a comparison between the sky and-- hah'?" "Quite right, I agree perfectly. What I meant to convey was, that there certainly could be none!" "Flatterer!" "There can be no flattery in the cold statement of a physical fact. Now, the deep, melting blue of yonder sky "Clinton," cried Edith, from the other side, ';I should like to , show Miss Dimity those aquatic views you said were in the saloon, if you will permit me; and since Miss Drierly declares luncheon to be nearly ready, we may, perhaps, as well retire!" The gentlemen all raised their hats, and Miss Parapet bore off the simpering beauty in triumph. "What can Parapet see to admire in that doll-faced ghir'" marvelled, sotto voce, Mr. Burgee, who had hay-colored hairh and no-colored eyes. "Doll-faced girl!" repeated Mr. Scuttle, a Spanish-looking man, with raven hair and flashing eyes of jet. "' Why, she's a perfect Hebe!" "De gustibus, et cetera, et cetera," said Mr. Flytte, as he threw the stump of his cigar into the bubbling waters, and finished the last stanzas of that "Ode to the Sea," which his brother bard Prodder afterwards criticized so savagely-and so anonymously-- in the columns of the sparkling Sidebocard. 'Fearfully hot it's getting," said Clinton, thus bereft of his idol. "Why, what the deuce!" he cried more hastily, " what's the matter, Brime? We seem to be at a stand-still!"   422         MARIAN ROOKE; OR,- "That's jest it, sir. The wind's dropping us like a hot potato; and look! the Sylphide's becalmed as well! I was afeerd 'twould be so, pervided it didn't freshen. It'll stay like this maybe till sundown, and then come out stiff from somewhere's else--most like from the north'ard.." The wind had indeed fallen very suddenly, and the gray veil which had lifted somewhat from the northern horizon seemed to be quietly settling down again for the night. The Sylphide lay at about a hundred yards from her consort, whose sails and stream- ers were fluttering sluggishy against her rigging, and which seemed otherwise motionless. The two schooners had been making, as has been said, long stretches in lines at a right angle to the projection of Sandy Hook, and the breeze had left them two or three miles away from it. For a while the water ap- peared to dance and eddy about them, thus giving some life and- vivacity to the scene. . But soon, from a counteracting action of the tide, it became apparently as torpid- and motionless as the yachts themselves, each of which now lay becalmed--" like a painted ship upon a painted ocean." Under these circumstances, the voyagers did what people are very apt to do when thus imprisoned in hopeless passivity, betook themselves to the dinner-table for such consolation as they might find. And in neither case was there any room for disappoint- ment; for, whatever Clinton's taste or liberality in such matters, Wirt Pinckney was no whit behind him ; so that a couple- of hours passed away very pleasantly, and there being not enough movement to cause inconvenience even to the most delicate, the ladies got on as happily as their companions. The two hours having passed, however, and the parties having returned to their respective decks, prospects did not ap- pear quite so cheerful. It was now past six o'clock, and the sun was going down, not in gold, but in a bank of sullen, leaden- looking clouds. The horizon was thickly dotted with vessels as motionless as their own, and with glasses it could be seen that no' flag on any of the distant forts was lifted by even an excep- tional puff of air. All hung drooping, dull, and spiritless. As the sun sank behind the cloud-bank which covered his point of departure on the horrizon, the windless air grew chilly, so that Edith Parapet was glad to don a crimson burnous to eke out the warmth of her gauzy muslin ; an example which the ladies on board the two yachts were not slow to follow. Meanwhile, both Captain Brime and the skipper of the Sylphide, ill-pleased with the ominous calm which surrounded them, had shortened their towering canvas until fore and mainsails were under close reefs,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        423 and nothing was seen forward but the scantiest possible apologies 'for jibs. The work was done in each vessel simultaneously, so that both were in what Brime called their fighting rig at the same moment. Whether due to a vague presentiment of coming danger or simply to curiosity, the ladies and gentlemen of the yachts view- ed these preparations in absolute silence. It seemed a melancholy and forebodingevening to follow so gay and sprightly a day; but the silence was so deep, so oppressive, that the slightest move- ment of block or tackle from either vessel smote on the ears of those on board the other as if it must needs be within reach of their hands. Presently the darkness grew denser, and on the horizon deli- cate ribbons of blue lightning began playing and dancing fan- tastically, while, as if in reproof, hoa'se and distant, but perfect- ly audible, the thunder began to- mutter and roll in company. "How silent they are on board the Ariadne!" said Marian breathlessly to Gifford; ' I could see Miss Parapet sitting bythe bulwark in a crimson shawl by that light, and a group around her as pale and speechless as herself. Strange they should keep so very still!" "I dare say they think the same of us," answered Hugh, laughing, " since your voice is the first I have heard for full ten minutes!" "What, Mr. Pinckney!" cried Eldon Clyde. "You haven't brought us here to offer up so many sacrifices to the fishes of New York Bay!" "Heaven forbid! Our bark is staunch enough, no doubt, and my only regret is that of keeping the ladies in the night ah'; but we must wait, perforce, the pleasure of the elements." The conversation grew general, and, thus encouraged, voices from the Ariadne emulated the example. But in a few minutes longer a far brighter flash of lightning blinded all eyes, succeed- ed by a heavy crash of thunder, while a long low wail of wind quickly followed the explosion, giving menace of its speedy ap- proach. Upon this, all the speakers were silent again. Marian, Xindeed, whispered: "Do you think there is any danger 1" : And Hugh, with a brave memory in his heart, replied, "And if there should be, I can answer for one woman not to fear it, whatever may be said of the men!" A great rush of wind was close at hand, and a sharp shout firom the Ariadne was echoed back from the Sylphide, as from the same voice. "'Stand by the halyards!" from the skippers,   424         MARIAN  ROOXE; OR, and "Ay, ay, sir!" from the tiny crews, sounded strangely to most other ears; but the precaution was quite necessary, fol in an instant the squall was upon them, bowing both the light craft nearly to their gunwales, dnd straining their scanty sails almost to bursting, "If this capful only holds as 'tis, sir," said John Brime, as, 'clenching the tiller of the Ariadne in his brawny hands, he care- fully humored the gallant little craft through the blinding strain of the squall, "'twill sweep us clear by Lafayette in less than a jiffey. We won't let go nuthin' till it pipes up higher than this." Both boats behaved very well, and stood up sturdily after the first onset of the blast, which was now driving them at a furious rate through the water. As had been expected, the Ariadne took and kept the lead, although of course all idea of racing was now banished from the minds of both parties of passengers. In an incredibly short space the yachts had traversed most of the stretch which had lain between them and the coast of Long Island; but, in order to get through the Narrows, and pass to the westward of Fort Lafayette, it was evidently necessary to tack. The wind, blowing with great violence as it was, had shifted one or two points ahead, and so suddenly that it was only obvious at the last moment that the manceuvre in question was not only unavoidable, but must be executed under rather critical lcircumstances. Notifar in the wake of the Ariadne flew onward her consolrt, and perhaps it was well that, at the moment the former went, round like a top, as her prow was driven into the wind, a series of brilliant flashes lit up the scene, although the volleying thun- der which ensued drowned the voices which essayed to shout their orders. Still the task to be performed was so manifest to the three or four skillful tars who worked the Sylphide that no harm was done, and her helm was down and her sails shivering in the wind directly after her leader's.. But in the interval a piercing, an appalling cry rang in the ears of those-on the deck of the hindmost vessel. When'it ceased, the Ariadne was on the other tack and flying like an arrow from the spot she had filled an instant before. It had burst forth at the moment the great boom of her mainsail had swung with al crash to the larboard. Marian Rooke heard in that cry another which mingled with it-a wild, despairing cry of "Edith! Edith!" whichi came down on the gale and was swallowed in the darkness. She saw, too, by the vivid gleam of the lightning, a crimson mass floating away to leeward on the   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        425 crest of the rushing billows; and she saw, the next instant, that Hugh Gifford had left her side, and plunged straight into the sea. CHAPTER XX. IT was some moments before either of the yachts could be so far controlled by the frantic efforts of their crews as to retrace the path they had so swiftly described just before. The race was now for a graver stake, however. than any on board had contemplated when they set sail that sultry morning, and their exertions were commensurate with its dreadful importance. It was some moments, although it seemed an age to those most interested in the result, before the Sylphide could make her way back to the spot where Gifford had leaped into the foaming waters; and, when she did so, the fast-ebbing tide, pressed tumultously by a gale which now blew directly down the channel, had carried the objects, of her search some distance out to sea. Battling desperately with the waves, Gifford had made his way to the crimson guide which fortunately made Edith's posi- tion so conspicuous even in the obscurity, that it was not diffi- cult to find her. Time courses with awful speed in these cases. Many a poor wretch has drowned in the space inevitably taken in putting about the ship whence he had fallen. The yachts, however, were handy, and despite the resistance of the elements, they fought their way quickly to the rescue. Presently the whole scene was illumined by blue lights burning from both'their decks, feeble competitors with the flashes of lightning indeed, but more steady. And now two life-preservers are within Hugh's reach, lashed to' lines running from the Sylphide's taffrail as she hurtles by. Again she is thrown into the Bwind; he has made one of the buoyant rings fast under Edith's arms, and in a few moments more both are drawn in safety over the bulwarks. Edith was quite senseless r The gun, the rocket, and the glad cheer which outrang for an instant the howl of the wind, and told her brother of her rescue, conveyed no sound to her ears. But she was living, breathing; of that there could be no doubt. "In tender hands of those of her own sex, and with proper restora- tives, applied in the comfortable cabin, she would soon recover," said Eldon Clyde; and he saidttruly. As for Hugh, he was  *               .   42i        MARGAN BOOKE 5 OB, quite self-possessed, although greatly exhausted ; and dry clothes and a little hot brandy and water would doubtless be all-sufficient to remedy any ill eftects from his bath. Congratulations flew thick and fast at so happy an ending to the adventure; and as, in a briefer space than the whole had taken, both schooners were laid on the other tack, and with a short stretch attained the comparatively smooth surface of the in- ner bay, while Clinton's anxious hails had'received the most re- assuring and satisfactory replies, there really seemed only room for unmingled-joy. And yet this joy was dashed with bitterness; an affair which, promising as it did to end in a terrible catastrophe, and ren- dered apparently harmless by an act of promptness and courage, was yet destined to evolve results fraught with pain to several of the personages of our story; for it led to an incident, which, however induced by a train of most natural circumstances, was yet of a character which people in certain relations are seldom persuaded -is susceptible of misconstruction. When Edith was drawn on board she was carried directly into the cabin, and, all unconscious as she was, laid upon a couch near the door. Hither the ladies and gentlemen crowded with injudicious but natural solicitude, while DMarian, with a practical good sense which seldom deserted her, had flown for hot water to the little galley forward, leaving the stewardess, who happily had changes of her own, to arrange dry clothes as substitutes for the' drenched garments which the half-drowned girl had worn. In the mean time, when one young lady was supporting her head, another striving to pour wine- between her pale lips, and Mr. Rivingstone doing his best to keep a space clear about her, Edith suddenly opened her eyes, and. in accents of terror, shrlieked:  "He--Hugh!   He has saved me! He is lost himself! Where-where is he?" At which Wirt Pinckney ran hastily to fetch' Gifford, and thrust him streaming with salt water into the anxious circle; whereat Edith, with a scream of joy, cried: "Safe! safe! Thank God! thank God! Dear-dear Hugh is safe!:"And, clasping her arms about his neck, she straightway fainted at the moment that Marian entered, in time to hear the ejaculations and to see the accompanying tableau. The cabin was speedily cleared, and our herorelieved from his rather embarrassing situation; while Marian, tending Edith like a sister, soon had the satisfaction to see her conscious and com- fortable. But, all engrossed in such feminine cares as she was,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       427 and which prevented her dwelling for the time upon aught else, Iarian felt she had witnessed what could neither be explained away nor forgotten ; what, as she believed, must have had its origin iT'foregone conclusions, incompatible alike with Hugh's truth and her own future happiness. s  Now, the explanation of the affair was very simple. Torture could not have wrung from Edith Pariapet those expressions of fondness which, off her guard, unnerved, shaken and dismayed I as she was, had only halfwittinglyescaped her. Apprehensions lest her preserver had fallen a victim to the magnanimity which  led him to risk his life to preserve her own, had given birth to an outhurst which was in truth as surprising to Gifford as it was to $ any one else who heard it. But how many women are there who would credit such an explanation were it offered? Marian was resolved to seek none. She put her own construction upon what she had witnessed, and steeled herself in the conviction that there could absolutely be no other. Fate had decided that she was to stumble in good season upon the evidence of her lover's duplicity, and had thus guarded her against making shipwreck, not only of her happiness, but most probably of his own. For Edith was very lovely. No one could look upon her, even now, pale and bowed like a broken lily, with the hauteur which was so marked a characteristic, and,-in her case, so be- coming a one, all subdued, awkwardly draped in unseemly gar- ments as she was, and not perceive that she must be. under favorable circumstances, supremely captivating. And Marian had been subjected of late to sore trials. She had been condemned to hear in bitter silence reports which were humiliating to her pride, fatal to her peace. In the excite- ment, the enthusiasm of an explanation when all his better feel- ings had been roused, when every dear old memory of the past had been evoked to awaken his imagination and buttress his loyalty, Hugh had indeed denied the truth of these reports. But Marian was not without experience in matters of the heart. She had been taught betimes, " when the blood burns, how prodigal the soul lends the tongue vows." How did Hugh's denial look in the light of what had been revealed to her-in the light of Edith's evidently not unsought or unreturned affec- tion? He was ambitious too ; and the sin by whichh angels fell might easily prove too strong for the faith of one whose youth had been cankered-embittered-warped into reserve, if not into double-dealing, by early surroundings and misdirections. The temptation to ally himself with so proud a family, as the step-   428         MAATAN ROOKE j OR, ping-stone to social and political success, had been too strong f him, and he had fallen. Should she judge harshy? No hundred times, no. His behavior might have been unjustifiabl nay, criminal; but he had much to struggle withal in his ow breast as well as in the outer world, and she knew, when sl first had loved him, the imperfections of his character. Marian had enjoyed many hours of almost unalloyed bliss When Gifford and she first met after their separation-when h had poured into her willing ear the story so long pent up in hi breast of deep and passionate love-when he pictured how fo many a day it had dwelt there, on the prairie, in the mines, whei she was yet in his sight ;3 in all his wanderings by land and se. since they had been parted-she had believed, and believed witl a rush of happiness that was almost unearthly, in the literal truth of his protestations. Why should she not? She knew she was beautiful. It was mere affectation on her part to ignore it. She knew  herself accomplished; it was a naked fact, which whoever ran might read. She knew herself young and attract- ive in a social sense; experience teaches to average intellects a lesson in this wise not readily misconstrued. Why, then, should she not be loved I Again and again she asked herself this ques- tion. Why should not Hugh Gifford love her as dearly as he swore he did? On this day a wretched shiver came over the girl, for an an- swer smote suddenly upon her mind which, strange to say, in connection with Gifford, had never occurred to it before. An answer which was bound up and interwoven with the most pain- ful recollections of her life, which was, perhaps, the cause why it had been hidden away in the recesses of her memory only to be tortured forth by a calamity which brought something of the same burthen of sorrow. This was the secret, she began to per- suade herself, of her lover's alienation. He had lived among people of high thoughts of late-people of fastidious tastes- and they had engendered or stimulated in his mind aprejudice which had been absent or feeble before. Wandering like Nature's own children in her luxuriant forests, sitting side by side on mossy banks which bordered her lakes and streams of crystal, finding health and safety, and plenty, while trusting to her and her alone ; hearing whispers and sug- gestions from her lips and from no others ; before the thirst for goldj and the herding with its worshippers, had brought sophis- tication and littleness, and the taint of mean and ungenerous prejudices,--ho such thought as was now in Marian's mind would have arisen there, no such motive have been attributed to   fi   W     THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        429 her lover. But as it was, there must be something, she reasoned, I beside more obvious and selfish incentives, something in the nature of a powerful stimulus, to, have perverted Gifford to false- hood, and worked in him so great a change. She went quietly home, showing no mark of distrust, no sign I of disquietude, but playing her part on board the yacht with i  even and gracious propriety to the last, and prepared to take a step which should be irrevocable. She wrote Hugh a very long letter, taking for its preparation not one day, nor two, nor three. It was a week, in truth, be- fore she had finished it to her mind; and it was covered over and over with those traces which- time makes invisible to mortal eyes, but whereof the angels keep a translation to be forever i  tenderly and compassionately remembered. What a love was hers! So catholic, so deep; it was more than that of a maiden for her lover, for it had something of the holier love of a mother   for her child; a love which survives the burning ardor of youth; a love which dies not under unkindness, neglect, or even deceit; a love as much greater and nobler than common love as it is nobler and greater to love the stained and erring than it is to love the spotless and innocent; a love which transcends human love of the ordinary type so strangely, that it may have first suggested to men's minds the character of the divine. Rarely do we see or know of such love on earth, still more rarely are we its objects; but when we are, we are supremely fortunate, as Hugh Gifford was, in its enjoyment; and generally supremely blind, as he appeared to be, in appreciating what we enjoy. The adventure -of the yacht was of course a nine days' won- der. Equally of course, the public voice mated Edith Parapet with Hugh Gifford in every direction. It was quite impossible, incredible, absurd, that a man should go on in that way, run a great hazard to perform an act of humanity, without being self- ishy, interested beforehand or paid in one particular manner afterwards. It would be contrary to all precedent-to all romance -to all public expectation-and, consequently, to all decency- that the matter should have any other termination. Perhaps the stories which thus met her on all sides may have had something to do in fortifying Marian's resolution. Perhaps the fact that she did not see anything of EIugh, or hear any- thing of his subsequent actions, may have had some effect. Per- haps an idea that there really was a species of poetical justice in his marrying Edith may have had weight. But whatever the mingling of motives, she faltered not in carrying out her design when she had once determined upon it.   Her letter released Hugh entirely from his engagement; but it carefully avoided allusion to the particular circumstance which was the mainspring of her actions. She said that matters had changed very materially during the months that had passed since their engagement was made. He had new companions, new pursuits was reputed to have grown very wealthy; and it was her wish that he should havet-whatever change may have taken place--the opportunity to act as if he were bound by no ties or pledges whatever. They were both still very young, and nothing' was more natural than that they should have mistaken the depth,  the permanent character, of their feelings. Such was the sub- stance of the. first part of her missive. But more followed of a grave and earnest nature, for Marian thought it her duty, as she had thought it of old, to do what she could to aid Hugh to become better and worthier. She pointed out-and this in a way disconnected with their personal relations--how the acquisition of wealth in so short a space, with so little labor on his part to attain it, had worked unfavorably upon his character. How it had weakened good resolutions, sapped his moral vigor, opened the door to petty temptation, subjected him to poisonous flatteries from all manner of vulgar and ignoble sycophants. -How, instead of devoting himself to the noble tasks of regeneration and improvement-services of which his country was so palpably and vastly in need-he had merely gone floating on in a paltry tide fed by the principle of accepting wrongs because thev exist-of winking at corruption instead of denouncing it-of folding the hands in indolent sleep when duty and the talents God had given demanded self-sacrifice and laborious exertion.  Thus even in parting with Hugh, as she thought for ever, the keen agony of that parting only prompt- ed Marian the more to do all that in her lay to make him a purer and better man.                ': It was a week before the letter was delivered. During this time no one had seen lHugh with whom Marian. came in contact. After its lapse he  disappeared altogether from  society, and vanished from the eye of the world. Poor Hugh!  His sorrows i had come indeed not single spies, but literally in battalions. The day before Marian's letter reached him, the failure was announc- edS on a  colossal scale, of the great house of Ingott and Gollop. Alheady the exposure and excitement of the adventure in the bay had forced him to take to his bed. The accumulation of ills brought on a  raging fever; and involved as he was for a vast sum in the misfortune of the insolvents, he became utterly un- I           k   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       431    i able to direct his affairs, or even to endeavor to save anything from the wreck. The sheriff's officers were in his house. while he lay above, l either entirely unconscious, or with occasional waking fits of ! delirium. The great fortune, with all the accumulations which it had gathered, was scattered to the winds, and its whilome master, the pet of society, the caressed and admired candidate for political and social honors, was penniless and forsaken. The  gold by which he had set so much store-the gold which was to   , be the ladder of his renown-the gold, in virtue of whose pos- session men had been almost ready to fall down and worship    him-the gold so carefully hidden from Virginia, to build a wall RI between himself and Marian-the gold so swiftly gained had   g flown more swiftly still, and Hugh Gifford was once more a    i dreaming and houseless beggar.   -i    432    .    MARIAN, 0OOKE; OR BOOK THE FIFT'H. CHAPTER I. HSTORY, it is said, repeats itself. However it may be with nations, most of us can vouch that that of individuals does so. Few but are reminded almost every day of their lives of some- thing that has gone before. Sometimes the remembrance is so startling, that it is hard to escape the conviction that there exists a subtle but vital connection between the two sets of incidents. Such was my reflection one quiet evening in October, when I found myself on horseback winding down a series of low, hills, which trend towards Long Island Sound, near thq point of its contact with the beautiful valley of the Connecticut. I seemed to be living over again the self-same evening which had found me three years before descending the hills into the valley of Armstrong's Bar. Now there were a great many strongly-marked points of difference between the two occasions. The former was in spring, this was in autumn. In one case, the air smelt strongly of the sea; in the other, I was many a league from blue water. That was in the extreme west of the contiy nent, this in the extreme east. The first was the land of gold and license, the last the land of husbandry and rigor. Where, then, was the resemblance? In what lay the force of the asso- ciation? Truly, not in place, season, or, least of all, in coloring. Well I remember that vivid green, so like the tropical glare, which drenching, long-continued rains had clothed earth and trees withal about the Bar. The coloring around me now was such as is almost indescribable, except for such as have seen it; but those who have not may gain some idea by imagining that countless rainbows had fallen from the Skies, and steeped the forests in all directions with glorious dyes, which lost their eva-   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        433 nescence, and became fixed in the process. It was the most lovely period of the American autumn: but with all its gorgeousness, there was a sobriety befitting the maturity of the year, far dif- ferent from the callow and upstart youth of the Californian. spring. But we are too far on our journey to linger by the way to des- cant on its scenery. Let me eschew negatives and divergences. and say at once why the two occasions were so strangely alike-- reminded me so irresistibly of each other. It was a soft, breezeless evening then; I was riding slowly down those graduated slopes which suggest the neighborhood of some great water-course; my path ,was bordered and arched with foliage of the densest description, and suddenly, seated upon a log, I came upon two men. The instant I saw them the past three years seemed altogether a dream. I was again in a Mexican saddle, weary with a four days' journey from Marysville, armed with revolver and bowie- knife, and with papers in my saddle-bags showing a legal title to fifteen leagues of territory, covering what was called Arm- strong's Bar. I was again to be greeted, first surlily, then hos- pitably, and invited to a queer-looking cabin, far down in the valley, which boasted a cotton roof, and such strangely-jumbled inhabitants. I was again to hear the melodious contralto of the tall, dark girl, whom those inhabitants would call Mary Anne. Once more I should receive the uncouth but kindly attentions of the Armstrongs; listen to the -brusque criticisms and enco- miums of the rough Scotch doctor; gaze furtively at the sad and thoughtful face of the yotmung New Englander, who sat so moodily alone in the corner. Once more I should be an amused witness of the conversations and opinions of the editor of the "I Moun- tain Clarion"; once more marvel at the quaint follies, the min- gling of scraps of wisdom and painful puerility which came from the witling Ike, with his shock of red hair, and his extravagant shreds and patches of finery; marvelling but for a brief space, however, as it soon became evident enough what was the secret of the poor fellow' vagaries; once more I should see the great dog leap up and pull down the latch; once mrore hear his joyous bark and Yet no! The charm was broken--the illusion was dispelled- the absence of this one sound it was that made the difference between now  and then!  Not spring or autumn, east or west, changes in colors, time, or odors made the real difference! It was the absence of that deep, well-remembered bay of Lion! There sat Dick Railes and Ike upon the log as of yore; but the 19   434         MARIAN ROOKE; ORn, dog, with his ringing bark, was gone, and in a moment my wandering imagination was at one with facts again, and the past was gone for ever! I was merely going to see the Armstrongs, and, some others, at the ancestral homestead near Old Saybrook, partly for friend- ship's sake, pfirtly for business connected with Armstrong's Bar. They had acquired a title there, which, for a consideration, wasto be extinguished, and my old employers were to establish their claim. This was .all. Not because of a desire to avail of a facti- tious appearance of authenticity, but merely for truth's sake, I lead the, reader here to receive his' last impressions of those whoseacquaintance he hag made, and in whom, it may be trusted, his chief interest may be centred. After which, in accordance with a not-forgotten promise, the individuality of the writer is withdrawn, to traverse the course of his story no more. Let us go through the dense, arching woods with our guides -who have been long expecting us-and find out what we can of our old friends and acquaintances. Of all the many charming old -places which grace the swelling line of the Sound, there is none more so to certain eyes than Old Saybrook. To eyes which love to rest upon old trees, old houses, old roads; to find in daily walks and drives the proof that its inhabitants regard their town, such as it is, as finished; to see- evidences of that which is so rare in American towns-of re- pose ; to such eyes dd Saybrook is charming indeed. About a quarter of a mile from the village is the ancient Arm- strong homestead. Two hundred solid acres had Seth repur- chased which an Armstrong once had held, as far back as the time when the place got its name, from a Say and Sele. You can find the name, nearly obliterated by weather and time, on many an old tombstone in the churchyard hard by, and in village archives there' is matter enough, if need be, to trace an ample genealogical record of the family. The house was very large and very old. But, like many old things, there was substance enough in it to build halfa dozen new ones; and the barns and other out-buildings corresponded with /  the house.; When the Armstrongs came back rich from Califor- 'nia, and bought the place back ijto the family again, the build- ings certainly looked rather shabby and unpromising; and pretty Kitty, when she fit'st saw the house, bit her lip with vexation. True, she was to be Mrs. Railes at midsummer ; but, as is the fashion r with some American families, they were all to live under one roof. Seth could not bear, after what they had passed through   THE QUEST FOR fORTUNE.       435 together, to have the household separated,. and Dick was nothing loth to fall in with the old man's wish. They came to New York in May, and, as the purchase had been negotiated through an agent some time before, they moved into their new-old posses- sion soon after. But it was a house which none of the villagers who knew it best could have recognized by October. What with a verandah running round the whole building, and all manner of rustic porches and entrances, flanked by rustic seats ; what with fresh paint-which Luke, who had actually been reading John Ruskin among other recondite authors, happily prevented from being of an - implacable, staring white-and a world of clambering vines, the Armstrong mansion became a very tasteful-looking as well as comfortable abode. It was a dear old home! With rolling meadows and chang- ing woods to' be seen from its windows for many a mile with the silvery Connecticut widening awayto the northward, and on the south the great ocean-like Sound glittering with a scarcely less "innumerable smile." -No wonder Doctor Landale fell in love with the place, and bought what he styled a ram-shackle, tumble-down old house in the village. He was laughed at a good deal by those who knew how he was wont to growl at America, her boasting and -swag- gering, and her universalsuffrage. But at firsthe said be bought only as an investment. The spot was -near New York, which must become a prodigiously huge city, and all watering-places in its vicinity would then be valuable. Afterwards he averred, that although he had by no means given up his idea of a cottage on the Clyde, yet the air of Connecticut agreed with him, and he- would stay a year or two to settle his constitution. Finally, he declared-this was more recently--that he found he could do good in America, and that the people iwere more disposed than formerly to be done good to ; so that, in short, he would stay among them a little longer. Habit, indeed,- does much, and the doctor is not the only one who has learned by experience, which is better' than books, that men are neither so culpable nor so meritorious as most of the world would have them, for qualities which spring from circum-. stances which they had no share in arranging, and wherein other men would be mulch the same as themselves. But the doc- tor really did good in his way, and to no one did he do more good than to poor Hugh Gifford. It so happened' that the party arrived in New York just at the season of our hero's misfortunes. There was no need of consul- tation among themselves after the doctors agreed that he might.   436         MARIAN' ROOKE ; ORE be safely removed, and Hugh Was taken by railway, passive and half' conscious as he was, and comfortably bestowed among- kind friends in the old farm-house. His fortune was utterly swept away. If it had not been, we may mention, entre nous, that In- gott and Gollop would have been quite unable to go into that great street-cleaning contract'which they secured about nine months afterwards. But fortune mattered little in his present condition; for he was attacked by an illness so violent and so prostrating, that for many weeks life just trembled in the balance. The sweet, whole- some country air, unremitting watchfulness, youth, and latterly a ray of hope, perhaps, brought him ultimately through. But all summer long, Hugh lay on a couch where he suffered first long- continued delirium, and afterwards more protracted and racking pain.,. He did not suffer for want of gentle attendants of both sexes. Of others, more hereafter ; but there was one whose care and tenderness were rather like those of a woman than a man; who could never watch enough, do enough to minister to his comfort, to increase the chances of his recovery.- Through all the long wearying nights, when Hugh's state was most critical, Luke Armstrong was by his side; and when, little by little, mind and body began to regain their tone, who but Luke' cheered him, nursed him, read to him--when books were forbidden, save at second hand, went long journeys to fetch him fruit, or other del- icacies, whichthe system, jaded by fierce attacks of fever, craved in the course of its slow rcaetion. Certainly no woman could have been more watchful or delicate in offlices which belong to woman's own vocation. Perhaps Luke felt himself in the position of a legate or deputy, and his con- scientiousness was on the alert to omit nothing his principal would have wished done., ' I am giving you sad trouble," said Hugh, faintly, one balmy evening in August. Luke had pushed back the white curtains of a window opposite the sofa where the invalid lay, and there came wandering into the room all manner of delicate scents of jessamine and, honeysuckle. "Trouble to all, but most to you, Luke." "Trouble, Mr. Gifford. Trouble, to take care of ybu. What a word!" "Call me Hugh; I call you Luke. " "Well, Hugh, then; although it never -seems quite natural, like." "Why?"   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       437 "Why, you know, you are educated-a gentleman, and we are only poor'farmers. . It is not natural, even in a republic, for us to be exactly like equals." The room opened into-another beyond, and through the door Hugh's eye rested upon many well-filled book-shelves. It was Luke'g library; and a very good library too. More of history and science than of the classics perhaps; yet still a very good library. Then Hugh's eye wandered back to the owner's face. It was much more thoughtful than formerly. The brow seemed positively to have risen in these three years. But all the old kindliness was there. The head had not gained at the expense of the heart. The love which had been so sweet, which had been so bitterly disappointed, had exalted and ennobled a nature which was of that rare type that defeated love, or vanity if we will, cannot force to grow downwards or to become distorted. Luke was surely a gentleman, if any of earth's delvers could ever be such, and so thought Gifford as he gazed. "You have studied, read a great deal in there years, Luke. I've no fight to claim superiority as to book learning. And as to money, you are independent now, whilst H am very, very poor.  "So far as the money goes," said Luke, " nearly every dollar we have came from Lionsdale. But for you we should never have had it. So we're even there. Often since you have been sick has father said-not that any of us needed to be reminded of it--that part of the money by good rights was yours, and we ought, when you got well, to pay it to you." "That's nonsense-absurd. I wouldn't listen to it l-not for a moment. If any one has a right of discovery, it is poor Ike. Strange," added Hugh, feebly. "I've had such queer fan- cies since I've been ill. I thought-or did I dream it?--that Ike was no longer weak-minded-no longer silly; that he had marvellouslv recovered, and grown quite sane." "There /has been a great change in him, and there's no dream in that," replied Luke; " but I'll tell you all about it when you're stronger. The doctor-and he's more cranky and despotic than ever, as you can see-says you're not to talk about exciting things; you're to be kept quiet, and soothed."' "At all events," said Gifford with a smile, II there's no reason why you shouldn't call me Hugh." "I will, since you, wish it. But-as we have spoken of such. things--there's a difference between us, besides those of read- ing and dollars, after all." "A difference?" "    438        MARIAN ROOIKE; On, ' Yes, there is a difference in man that democracy ignores, but which, I take it, all philosophers have to take into account. It wouldn't do in America, I suppose, to call it ' blood ;' but there's t a difference, call it what you will."' "If there is," said Iugh, bitterly, " it's a pityit has not made me a better man. Why, Luke, you area hundredfold worthier and better than I am!" "Hush! You musn't say so." "But I will-because it's true. Would you havre misused advantages as I have? Having fortune, some talent, health, and, more than all, the love of the purest, loveliest being that ever h breathed; would you, -possessing these, have cast them all fi'omn you like toys, merely through the indulgence of a contemptible indolence--a miserable vanity! Would you have sacrificed, as I have, fortune, honorable ambition, a holy love, for mere self- ish egotism? That love, more priceless than all else beside, would you have cast it from you, outraged and humiliated? Would you   " "Stop!" inPtrrupted Luke, and a feminine blush rose over his sunburnt face into the paler forehead. "Stop, Hugh! don't say you have ill-treated-- Mamrian." The name came with difficulty from his lips, and when it passed    . them it was with a lingering softness, as if he feared, wvhen he let it go forth, that something might happen even to the name. Hugh looked confused. His head was weak yet, and he had scarcely thought, in saying what he did, whether his companion had any knowledge of the events of the past year or not. '"Why, didn't you know, Luke, that we-were---- " "Engaged? Yes. The doctor read his letter to us--most of it. That was in it. H was glad of it. I knew-you re- nmemnber what I told you?-that it would make her happy. And  I could not doubt she would make you so." W"' ho could? Heaven forgive me; who c6uld? But it is all over now." "Do you mean to say  " "That our engagement is over-broken off-yes." Luke said nothing for some time, but'sat looking straight out of the window at the blue sky. Had he no inkling of this? Perhaps; but no certainty. Presently he spoke: "And you treated her badly, then?" "Very, as I now think. I didn't think so at the time. I was bewildered-dazzled--like one in a dream. But surely," he   I          TIHE QUEST FOR FORTDOE.       439 :I said, suddenly, "surely you must have heard something of this?" Luke's face reddened again. "I don't think this talk is quite good for you," he said; "but when you ask me that, I don't like to keep back the truth. While. you've been sick you've aIn gone on much in this way-in self-reproach, like--declaring you had ill-used her, and destroyed your own happiness. But I thought it was the fever, and Doctor Landale said people often went on and talked in contraries about their affairs in delirium, something as drunken folks abuse those they love best. So I took no notice, or as little as I could; but I never dreamed it pos- sible that you could have treated ler badly!" "None but a villain-a cold-hearted, selfish villain-could have done so. Don't mistake; I committed no direct-no flagrant outrage. To have done so would have been less cruel if more unmanly. I persuaded her to tie herself to me, and then neglected her; placed her in the humiliating position of being regarded by the world as slightedfor another-for another, brilliant in the eye of fashion, and rich in the world's homage; left her to believe herself supplanted-likely to be altogether abandoned by a paltry trifler to whom she had given her love, but who was not worthy even, to kiss the hem of her. e garment." "But you loved her-always-still?" "As I do now; as I love my own soul! Sometimes I think better, since my senses have returned, and I feel the whole ex- tent, the supreme wretchedness of my loss. Alas! I have not even the consolation of thinkitg it undeserved. Ah, Luke! what I said is true; you are--and were-worthier a hundred- fold than I, a hundredfold better worth the priceless treasure of such a .woman's love!" i "No more of this," said Luke, hurriedly; " you've talked already more, far more than is good for you.. Try and sleep for a while; the doctor said you were to fall asleep before sundown. I'll come and read to you by-and-by, as usual." "' Thank you, Luke; you are too good-too kind-far more so than I deserve." His voice was weak and hoarse; hc had indeed talked over much, and with undue excitement. A crimson spot was ilw the middle of each cheek, and the eye which had been so dull was in a brilliant flame. Luke darkened the room, gravely wet a handkerchief with some cool essence, adjusted the sick man's pillows, and went softly away. Not far from the house was a grove of stately young pines,-   "O         MARIAN ROOKE; OR,' a cool, shady retreat, with the smooth, dry, brown carpet those trees are wont to spread, covering the earth at their feet. Here Luke had set up a sort of altar; a rustic bench only, just like what he had made for Marian on the shore of the lake, near Armstrong's Bar. He took a strange pleasure ill making divers little nooks and crannies about the homestead look like the former home in California. He liked to reproduce the same lit- tle conveniences; to erect them where they would afford as nearly as possible the same views; to plant flowers that would diffuse the same odors with those at the Bar. That there was a tinge of melancholy in this did not make him the less enjoy it; nor was it exclusively the memory of a cherished love-which prompted his action. The innate refinement of his nature had received firom the presence and handiwork of Marian its first strong impulse to growth and development; whatever then, was associated with that auspicious period, either in sense or spirit, he strove to re-create around him. He came now to this rustic bench in the pine grove, and, casting himself at full length upon it, he looked up at the deepening blue of the skies, and thought. And the deepening blue gave place to a dusky gray, and that, after a while, to a deeper blue than before, and the stars came out one by one, and looked down inquiringly at him; and still Luke lay stretched upon the bench, staring up at the zenith, but buried all the time in profound, meditation. CHAPTER II. '*I 'didn't think," said Seth A- mstrong, as he sat smoking his pipe in the piazza, and gazing forth on the fair expanse of roll- ing meadows before him, "I didn't think to own the old Arm- strong Farm. afore I died. When I went off West as a young man, I reckoned it made no great odds where folks lived or where they died, so long's grain was cheap and land plenty; and I kept on a thinkin' so for a good many year. But now, now I ketch myself wonderin' every day how people can find it in their hearts to leave the sile they was born and bred on; how they can bear the idee of laying down to rest anywheres except among their fathers." "Humph!" grunted the doctor, who was playing apostate to his own long-cherished religion of a cottage on the Clyde.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       441 , Vhen you were poor and had many mouths to feed, you went where nature was most generous to help you, and had no time to think of sentimenit Now, you're well off, with the larder full, and the granary running over, and can amuse yourself by becoming poetical." '; Fie, Doctor," cried Luke, " are not the poorest of your own countrymen those who love their native land the best?" "Truly it's said so," quoth the Doctor, who would have been 'furious had any one maintained the contrary; "but most in- sisted on when they had only Hobson's choice. If they were like you Yankees, with a land of promise within reach--a Mis- sissippi valley with no herring pond rolling between-there might have been more migration and less romance." "It's nateral, perhaps, to love the land where you're prospered most," mused Seth, between his whiffs, "and yet see how our folks come back when they've got a little money, and often when they hain't, even from sech a fine country as California. See how they come flutterin' back to nestle on these 'ere barren New England hills, like fledglings coming home to a mother!" "Folks like what they've been used to," observed Mrs. Arm- strong, oracularly, " and if they cotton to outlandish ways for a season:it's only for love o' novelty, and they yearn for the home- made crust when the gilt once wears off the furrin gingerbread. Armstrong's Bar was well enough, that is, as it got to be; but even there what a sight of things there was you couldn't have for all the gold, and flour at fifty, and bacon a dollar a pound!" And the worthy woman peered fondly over her glasses at the interior of the parlor close at hand; an interior embarrassed with such riches of china and patchwork that it must have re- quired affection the most profound, coupled with experience of the lengthiest, to cram all into the same apartment. "Armstrong's Bar," pronounced a sad, measured voice from just within the room, "is the pootiest place in the world. Whilst water runs and grass grows we'll see no nicer place; and I love it-love it better than any other spot I ever trod on besides. The speaker was Ike. Ike, without any fantastic ornaments, in a plain suit of blue homespun, his red hair combed straight behind his, ears, and the old look-the strange eerie mixture of wildness, feebleness, and cunning-replaced by an expression of steadfast sorrow. The voice, too, had no longer the querulous, self-asserting ring it often gave out of yore; its tone was grave and even, not that of a person entirely rational, but far nearer to it than ever before. 19'   "2        MARIANO R0KE; OR, "We're going to make the homestead as much like the Bar as we can, Ike," said Seth, "for we was all fond of it, and don't mean to forget bein' very happy, and-arter all is said and done -very lucky there. I'm not quite so spry as I was, but Luke, and you, and Dick can jest fix things up as ye like 'em best, and what suits you'll suit me." He did look a trifle older. A little more grizzle in the hair; a little mnore stoop in the shoulders; a deepening of the hardy lines about the mouth, and the furrows athwart the brow; but the eye was as gentle as on the day when tears came into it at the hearing of Marian Rooke's sad story-her appeal for aid and protection-and the old accents of kindliness and considerate-  ness, notwithstanding uncouth phrases and pronunciation, were mellowed and more genial, if anything, through the passage of -time. "The river's wider and deeper," said Kitty, softly, "than the stream at the Bar. We can't alter that. But there's many a walk and many a view around here that you couldn't tell apart  from them we left behind. There's a little lake in the wood behind the Blackberry Pasture just like the one in the hills where--where poor Lion used to bathe-and Mary Anne and Mr, Gifford used to sit and watch him while he brought things out you threw in the water." A low sigh came firom Ike, which showed he was an attentive listener. "And we've got the same kind of clambering vines set out," proceeded Luke, as if taking up in an understood manner a con- solatory strain, " so that you might shut your eyes anywhere about the house, and not know whether you; were in Connecti- cut or California." "And the seats you've fixed in the grove," added Kitty, " and the views to be seen from them, are so like the old ones that I'm sure 'twould puzzle sharp eyes to tell the difference." "Cappin' which," struck in Dick Railes as an irresistible climax in the way of resemiblance, "the Doctor and me's goin' to run a line of levels with the th'odolite, to see if we can't fetch water from  Buttermilk Creek to irrigate the south-east meadows, just for all the world as we flumed it over to wash gold out o' the Canion." "You see, Ike," added the Doctor, with. for him, an un- common gentleness,-"you   see, with money  enough-and we've all got that now-we can change the Armstrong Farm into Armstrong's Bar almost as easily as build the flume. We'll have them as like as two peas in a little while."   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         443 a All except," said /ke, tremulously, "all except"-he hesi- tated, choked a little, and then went on hastily but steadily, ,This I know-though there's some bad ones everywhere- there's;as kind hearts on the Farm as ever there was on the Bar." He rose as he ended and, going down the steps of the piazza, wandered away in the twilight. Every one turned, and looked inquiringly at the Doctor. "Betters" he said, briefly, Abetter every day. Indeed, the two seem to be getting well together-one in body, the other in mind. For that matter, Gifford had a very long mental siege, too." "Not altogether," inquired Seth, "not entirely for the money's sake?" "Tut, man, no. Only misers go mad about their gold, and the season is generally gone by with them for fevers such as breed in youthful veins. Twas a combination of causes- physical as well as mental -,whose seeds were sown a long time back." "It's strange," quoth Seth-" at least to a man who's been poor for the most of his days-that of all his fine firiends, none have come or inquired for him in his sickness, his misfor- tune." 'Not strange at all," contradicted the Doctor, "if it were so -but it isn't. We left no country address when we moved him, and any letters were to go 0t my own agents. .I've got several-three in the same handwriting-but it is not time yet to let him have them. His affairs have been settled, or are in the course of being settled, by the lawyers. These are not business letters, or they would have gone to them." "Do you think anything will be saved," asked Seth, "after paying the claims against him?" "I think they'll bring him in in debt," said the Doctor, coolly; " they generally do on the other, side, and I take it Yankee lawyers are no honester. But what then? He's young, will soon be as strong as ever, the world is all before him; he can take heart of grace and try again." ' I dunno," doubted Seth, "haters is different. 'Twouldn't hurt my Luke now to be a poor man agin to-morrow. He never was bred to expect to be anything else, and 'twouldn't come hard on him. But it runs in my head it'll be different with v Mr. Gifford." "Like as if," elucidated Mrs. Armstrong, "folks had been used allers to the best things in Chiny and patchwork, and would   "4         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, feel wuss to give 'em up than them 'ere red Pawnees who never know'd what it was to want 'erm." "It's not the money part of the business,"' observed Luke, quietly, "which will discourage our friend. These letters, Doctor,--perhaps you know?"  4"They're all in men's handwriting," said the Doctor, signi- ficantly, " and none that I can remember heaving seen before, excepting this,"-and he drew from his wallet a letter, which he held up in the dusky light for inspection. It was a large, thick, coarse-looking letter, addressed to Hugh Gifford, Esq., in a vulgar, scrawling, but very legible hand, and a huge " private " was pen-printed on the upper left-hand corner. The packet was passed from hand to hand, finally reaching Mrs. Anmstrong's, who held it at arm's length and glanced at it over her spectacles for some time with quivering suspicion; but no one could guess at the name of the writer, and it came back to the Doctor un- detected, -so that there was a pause of expectancy when he re- placed the missive in his wallet. "Whatever my supposition," he Added, blandly, noticing the curiosity he had excited, " it is the business of the recipient to mention it-if he chooses-and not mine." "And whosoever it is," asserted Kitty, positively, "it's not the handwriting which will do Mr. Gifford's eyes-or his heart -good to see ." There was a suspicion in the family that something was wrong respecting the engagement of Gifford and Marian Rooke; but, partly from a feeling for Luke, and partly from a sentiment of delicacy rare in so untutored a circle, they had seldom touched upon the subject during Hugh's illness.  "I don't think it ought to hurt him," continued Seth, philoso- phically, " havin' sech a trial so early in life. I've seen enough o' the world to know that what's lightly got, lightly goes. A man isn't a real man till he's had to buckle down and fight fortun' into givin' him a fair show. The good there is in Hugh Gifford weren't goin' to be fetched out by luck, but by hard blows. And when he gits strong agin, if he don't see it in that light, he ain't the man I took him for. But, settin' that aside, it's my judgment that we're beholden to him for the sight o' gold we got at Lionsdale - and 'twould be no more'n fair to offer to share, leastways to offer to give him a fresh start in the world." The Doctor shook his head.  Why, man, he'd no lmore take it than he'd take Mrs. Armstrong's china. No. He may be the better for his fall-that's as happens in the long run-but he'll take nobody's money as a staff to prop him up again; and,   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        445 what he'd helped others to get, is the very last on earth he'd accept." 'e "We were all in partnership on the Bar,", urged Seth. "That was ended by his departure. Still, the interest we have in the real estate may fairly be esteemed as partly his. If the adverse claim is substantially good in law, our title is valueless; but if there is any doubt about it, it will be worth while for the holders of the Mexican patent to buy us off, and worth our while to be bought. Such a transaction may yield a few thousands, and, as you say, give Master Hugh a fresh start in the world." "But Luke thinks him so very much depressed, Doctor," said Kitty, " so hopeless and despairing like, though very gentle and grateful for what he says all of us have done for him." "' Time and the hour run through the roughest day,' " quoted the Doctor. "We must wait and hope. When the body mends, the spirit may also." "Ahll, you can cure the one, but the other " "For the other, he needs another medicine." Luke sighed, and strolled out to find Ike. "What he needs," affirmed Kitty, 'I is what I fear none of us can find. Mercy knows we've tried hard enough." "Which is--" "What my poor boy could not get," said Mrs. Armstrong gently, but with a tinge of motherly regret; "I s'pose you mean Mary Anne?" "To be sure. There's something wrong, and he won't come round not for money-not for a share in the estate-not for a new Lionsdale put clear into his lap-until that's made right." "Ah, Kitty," said Dick Railes, lachrymously, " you kin feel for the sore heart the hope deferred of another, but for one like mine that's a beating " "Go along, stupid! Where's the resemblance, I'd like to know?" : Even for that necessity," said the Doctor, "I repeat, ' Wait and hope!'" "There's a good deal in that," acquiesced Seth Armstrong, gravely. 4 Even Ike, afflicted as he was, at last found his rem- edy." "At the cost," said Kitty, sorrowfully, " of the friend he loved best in all the world. Poor Lion!" And they all repeated in mournful chorus, "Poor Lion!" '\    "6         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, ^ . CHAPTER III. IT is a sad episode, that of poor Lion. But my story would be incomplete without it, and I would not leave the fate of even so humble a character in the action untold, or, by touching upon it in ambiguous phrase, clothe the subject in a mystery which might be more painful than silence. And after all, may we not hope-as some of us who have been so simple as to love dumb animals do hope-that the love and the kindliness which passed between us is not all lost even when the poor faitlhfil creature is gone out of sight and buried forever; that the interchange of fidelity and protection has served a wholesome purpose, has sown a generous seed, to blossom and bear fruits of charity long after we as well as our dead pets may be out of sight-forgotten? If so, even the memory of such episodes may not be without their uses.. That which softens the heart and makes moist the eye, which inclines us to one gentle action that milght have gone undone beside, which teaches a lesson of that catholic charity which includes not only all races of men, but even the brutes whom the Almighty has appointed to live amnong and be pro- tected by us, may not be all in vain. I know that the life and the death of this dog have not been so. I know that both brought blessings. I know that there are those to whom the remembrance of them is tender and salutary; to whom it is as grateful and softening as the south wind which sweeps over poor Lion's grave.  They had brought him home through tfche tropics, and the unac- customed heat which so often prostrates human beings was man- ifestly injurious to him. The clearness of his eye, the unceasing and watchful intelligence of his face, became alike blurred and confused. Once on board the steamer in the Pacific, he showed equivocal symptoms of disturbance, and some had proposed to throw him overboard, or otherwise to destroy/him. But Ike, who had an instinct about the dog like'a mother's for an infant, staid with him constantly by night and day, so that no oppor- tunity presented for the deed; and on the Atlantic side, Lake managed to have the creature put in a' cool, dark place, where he was undisturbed either by strangers or the fatal broiling sun, so that he was no worse when they arrived at New York.   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        447 But they arrived in the heat of midsummer and although ev- ery possible care and pains were taken, his spirit did not revive, and his constitution seemed to have lost its elasticity. He was a powerful animal, truly, but he was no longer young; a dog of his breed at ten or twelve is, like a man past middle life, less able to grapple with a powerful disease than when in his prime. However they went speedily to the farm, the. Armstrong family's old time possession, and it was hoped that in its green fields and unpolluted atmosphere Lion would recover. They were comfortably settled on the farm by July, but the weather grew hotter and hotter, and the dbg became more rest- less than he had ever been known to be before. He was savage to strangers too, in a fashion very different from his old saga- cious way, when he would learn by the expression of a face, the inflection of a voice, whether hostility was proper, and whether he had to face friend or foe. Soon he took to wandering in the village hard by, and once or twice growled at the farmers' children, or otherwise unhappily made himself enemies; and presently there began to spread a fatal report that he was mad. So complaint was made in a deprecative and neighborly way, and Seth said the creature should be safely confined. A kennel was placed in a quiet nook behind the barn, where both shelter and air were of the best, and to this abode Lion was banished until his health Should give signs of amendment. But Ike had got hold of an impression-not an unreasonable one-that his favorite required free access to grass and water, and that, to effect his restoration, liberty was at least as important as anything else. The simpleton, with his usual cunning, made no open objection to the imprisonment, but he crept to the place at night and set the dog firee, taking care to leave matters in such a position at the kennel as to favor the idea that Lion had enfranchised himself On these occasions he would be found rambling about the premises on the following morning, and Luke or Dick Railes would tie him up again. But on one unlucky night, or rather morning, for the incident appeared to have occurred in the small hours, a youth somewhat noted in the neighborhood for a rather predatory turn of mind, was cornered by Lion in the pear orchard near the house, and not only roughly. treated in respect of his homespun trousers, but re- ceived one severe bite in the leg. The lad's mother was related to half the village, and raised a terrible hue and cry, so that the  little place was quite in a ferment of commotion. The unlawful attempt which led to the misfortune was prudently lost sight of in the swelling proportions oft ion's crime. What indeed was a   whole wilderness of pears compared with the darling's maltreated calf?-what the sanctity of property contrasted with a be-lamed tendon Achillis? The echo of this ominous commotion speedily reached the farm and serious counsel was taken regarding the best plan of opera. tions. While this was yet undetermined, a delegation arrived from the village, consisting of the blacksmith, the wounded ad- venturer's uncle, and the sexton, his maternal grandfather. These officials, with a respect due to the wealth and conceded standing of the Armstrong family, coolly demanded the life of the assassin who had mutilated the leg of their kinsman. It was a fact so firmly established as to be beyond all cavil or question that, whether the dog were mad now or not, if he subsequently bel came so, their kinsman would go mad likewise. In view of this possible catastrophe, no Christian could hesitate between the life of a brute, however honest, and that of a human being, however the reverse. , This was the spirit, if not the' letter. of their rea- soning ; and it was clear, notwithstanding the veil of a civil de- ference that the deputation considered their statement rather in the light of a mandate supported by an overwhelming majority, than as a request, open to deliberation and optional refusal. In other wprds, they implied, prior to their departure, that, if the owneradid not think fit to destroy the animal, it would be pre- sumed that the task was voluntarily relegated to'any patriot ofthe vicinitywho might choose to undertake it. With this they departed. The family were in sore perplexity. They knew no one at a distance to whose care the poor' dog could be consigned; and- even if they had, it were scarcely kindly or conscientious to call upon friends to assume the care and risk of a culprit Whose fair fame had received so blackening a tinge, and for whose deeds, should he forget himself, they would become responsible in an imminent degree.   There seemed no security in tying him up, since he always managed to get free ; and if anybody had a sus- picion as to how this had happened hitherto, he also had a con- viction that a similar objection would remain hereafter. While Seth, Luke, and Dick Railes debated, the question was settled in an apparently conclusive manner. The dog could no- where he found. Of course, every one suspected Ike, but no one could get him to make the least admission, or offer the least ex- planation:  Naturally, this gave rise to anxiety ; for it seemed certain that whatever danger existed of Lion's destruction was not obviated by a temporary concealment and all dreaded the effect which any sudden casualty of thesort might have upon Ike The Doctor was still in New York ; but he had always warned it   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        449 the family that any violent excitement might be expected to pro- duce-a great andpermanent effect on the simpleton's clouded mind, and all were naturally anxious to avert what might prove a grave calamity. When it was evident that straightforward questions were useless, then recourse was had to indirection. "I s'pose ye know, lad,"' observed Seth, discreetly, "that the folks in the village feel as though they had a call to finish the poor critter if he comes in their way. 'Twould be an awful pity if he was to go onloosin' of hisself again, and meetin' praps a cruel and a lingering death; wouldn't it now?" Ike said nothing, but he gripped the axe wherewith he was splitting wood with a tighter hold, and his furtive-looking eyes flashed with an unwonted fire; so the old man shook his head and went his way. "I'd much rather not have an enemy in the neighborhood," said Luke, confidentially, " now that we are all settled so snug and comfortable on the old homestead; but I fear I couldn't for- . give any man who did old Lion a mischief. I'd a great deal  rather such a thing were put out of the question ; wouldn't you, Ike?" But Ike only set his teeth and went sullenly on with what he called his "chores." If he had possessed the wealth of Croesus, he  would have insisted on doing all the same what hie was so habit- uated to, and have neglected it now and again when the humor  seized him in the like reasonless way.  Then it was sweet, kind-hearted Kitty's turn. Kitty, always a great favorite with Ike, and growing morQ plump and, if pos- sible, more comely as a young matron. than she had been as a budding girl. "Poor dear old Lion," she breathed, softly, to Ike, as they stood in the dusk of the evening after the cows had been milked and supper-time had come, when Lion used inva- riably, wherever they might be, to present himself for his own.  "Poor dear old Lion; I suppose he knows they want to hurt him, and so keeps out of harm's way. But oh, Ike, if hbe gets loose and goes about the village again at night and anything happened, what should we do?"                a  But Ike was silent still. Even the ingenious assumption of Lion's being confined for safe keeping, and of Ike's being privy  to the fact, entirely failed to draw forth any admission. Not a  word should pass his lips that would give any, the faintest, clue  to firiend or foe. - Ike had heard that morning one word, one  , horrible word, spoken in connection with Lion, and it had glow-  ed before his imagination in letters of blood, ever since. This ! awful word, death, never quitted his thoughts, and all the force  i   450    '     MARIAN ROOKE; OR, of his feeble brain was obstinately bent, as it always was when his affections were deeply involved, to prevent its infliction upon Lion. After midnight Ike rose, as he had done long ago to guide Hugh Gifford to his ill-fated fortune, and made his way stealth- ily to the barn. Far away in a remote corner above the main- floor and even with the loft, where was stowed a great quantity of hay, he groped cautiously along until he came to a long-dis. used corn-bin, secured with a rusty padlock, and which he opened. In this binlay Lion, patient and silent. Ike had had a long, earn- est interview with him, while the deputation of his enemies were concluding their harangue in the' morning, and the consequent understanding was no doubt comprehensive and complete. Lion knew what was expected of him in the way of noiselessness and caution, and he was not a dog wittinglyto go behind his engage- ments. Then Ike took a hatchet, a piece of stout chain, a tin pail, and a bag of broken meat he had secreted, and whispering the animal to follow, passed down to the ground floor of the barn and so out into the open air. On they went over the bosky fields, which lay still and glooming in the summer's night, while the air was weighted with the sweets of new-mown hay, and the fragrance which falling dew distilled from harvest flowers. They went a long way, and that back firom the river, and so toward the inner country. Practised wanderer and explorer as he was, Ike was not at fault foir a refuge, a sanctuary for his favorite.  It was about two miles firom the farm-house, where a range of rather abrupt hills finished a spur which cropped down from the rougher country northwards. Among these hills was one steeper, higher, and more difficult of access in every way than any other. Scarcely precipitous enough to deserve its cur- ,rent name of "Sugarloaf," it was yet so much more so than its fellows, as to defy agricultural invasion, and its ascent was sel- dom attempted by dwellers adjacent, to whom the only reward, in the shape of a very fine landscape, would have offered no at- tractions commensurate with the labor of earning it. No plough would ever disturb that hill-top, and few rfootsteps. Ike was a very good judge of the chances in a  case like this.- What he most disliked was the necessity folr depriving Lion of his liberty, practically as well as ostensibly. The creature knew much, but hardly enough to refrain from following his master down again when he should offer to leave him solitary and alone on the des- olate hill. When with some difficulty and protracted toil they gained the   TH E QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        451 summit, Ike set vigorously to work to erect a habitation for Lion's future residence. There was plenty of loose stone, and a good deal of practice at amateur house-building in California enabled the architect to work with no little skill and celerity. In an hour he had made a cool, dark cell for the future recluse, so arranged that he would in no case be visible firom below, and could always at-pleasure avoid the glare of the sun. During these preparations Lion watched his master with comprehensive sagacity, and wagged his tail in acquiescence when the latter would now and again inquire his wishes as to some matter of construction.  The citadel being finished, it remained to provide the garrison with provisions. Ike had brought meat in his bag sufficient to last for a couple of days; and he now went half way down the acclivity to a spring, where he filled the pail he had fetched for this purpose. When all was done, Lion was chained to a staple driven into a tree close to the door of his mansion, the other end being carefully secured by a double swivel to his collar. Ike took great pains this time that the captive should not be able to release himself, a fact of which the tender reproach in the latters shaggy face showed him to be well aware. "You must stay put this time, Lion," said Ike, apologetically, "or else them  bloody-minded varmints 'll ketch ye, sure. Seein' there's enough to eat and drink, a good roof over your head, and a fine airy prospect, you might stay put if it is a little'lonesome; let alone that, Ike 'll come back -to-morrow, if he can; the next day whether or no." So Lion mournfully acquiesced, and,- with much compunction and many marks of love, Ike made his way down Sugarloaf, and home to the old farmhouse, just as the red ribbons were com- mencing to flutter and widen in the eastern skies, and the cool blue at the zenith was beginning to fade. For many days-some weeks in fact-nothing was heard or seen of the missing one. Of course everybody at the house knew that Ike was in the secret, whatever it was, otherwise he would never take his friend's absence so quietly. They tried cross-examining again, but with the same ill success as before; and then, experienced in the poor witling's obstinacy as they were, they ceased to question, and the quiet life rolled on as before.             .  Every night or tw'o Ike would steal off to Sugarloaf, and supply the hermit with provisions and fresh water. But Lion pined under his tedious incarceration, and expressed a growing discontent that it should be so long protracted. Might- not the   452         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, memory of his crime have so far softened and dissipated, that le could again, with prudence, show himself in the community? Might not the fact of his lengthy exile fairly plead in condonal- tion of the offence which had been its cause? Lion thought so; and, perhaps, he had a certain perception of the weakness of his friend's understanding, which led him, unhappily, to a fatal self- reliance when he came to choose between Ike's caution and his own inclinations. N  Be that as it may, one solitary night in July, when there was no moon, Luke, who had been at the neighboring town on some business or another, happened to drive home very late. As his horse trotted by the orchard-which ran over a series of hillocks rising behind the great barn-he saw on the most dis- tant slope, where the trees were sparsest, a suspicious-looking figure. It looked draggled and woebgone, and had that wistful and yet doubtful air which wretched .beings wear who rightfully or wrongfully, have been cast forth by society, and who cherish evermore thereafter a resentful, yet shrinking. consciousness, that they never again shall be welcomed in it. The figure 'was pen- sive and gaunt, and it drew along with it a firagment of dismal chain.      .        . Luke first called gently to the outcast, but it only shook its tail with one sorrowful wag and kept its attitude of dull expect- ancy. Then Luke alighted, and clambering over a rough stone wall, made straight for the spot where it stood. But whether the creature had a convictioln of his own wrongdoing in the matter of his escape, or mistook in the darkness one cwho had always been  kind to him for a stranger, he .took alarm at his approach, and fled silently away. Luke tried purluit, but soon found it useless and gave up the chase. Next morning he resolved to put Ike on his guard, since it was clear Lion had found means to break from prison, and en- largement must needs be fraught with grave peril to his life. But the nbreakfast-table was in a sad uproar. People had come from the village, with accounts of a most calamitous character. Two   sheep had been worried and one killed in the night- a large mastiff belonging to the butcher had been mercilessly thrashed, so that it was thought he must also be destroyed; several people who tried to come to the rescue had been savagely attacked, and although none were hurt, more than one was much fiightened, and all escaped only by the chance of being near their own doors. Finally, no one was safe while this marauding   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         453 desperado was at large, and the village peremptorily demanded his instant execution. It appeared that poor Lion was fulfilling the usual destiny of Ishmaels and Pariahs from time immemorial. What physiologi- cal causes connected with his long imprisonment may have pro- voked him to wild and sudden lawlessness maybe surmised, but, in the absence of means for hearing his defence, cannot be posi- tively known. Luke and Dick Railes stoutly maintained their disbelief that Lion was capable of such foul deeds as were thus imputed to him. Seth was dreadful sorry-dreadful-but really he didn't know where the poor critter was. Kitty cried and looked beseechingly at the deputation, as if to disarm their san- guinary intention; Mrs. Armstrong glared at them  over her spectacles, shook her head and her knitting-needles in boding unison, and said nothing; while Ike religiously followed her example.  The sum of all was, that the culprit was ranging at large; that none of the family knew or would tell of his whereabouts ; that if he had misbehaved in the manner described they certainly could not expect the parties aggrieved to refrain from demand- ing expiation; and that, albeit they could not deliver up the dog, they assuredly would pay for the sheep. With this under- standing the villagers departed with mollified feelings towards the family, but breathing vows of vengeance on the fugitive criminal. The Fates were weaving away slowly but surely, and  the catastrophe was not far off. But Ike, his mind in a whirl of blended fury and apprehension, swore silently to avert it. He knew that the dog would not tarry in the open country, and that since he had escaped the dangers of the night he was probably safe in his retreat for the day. So, Ike went calmly about his usual avocations, and waited until darkness again covered the earth ere he sought the place of concealment. At midnight he made his way thither, and, as he expected, found the wanderer at home. When he found him, Ike's heart rather sank; for there were more physical evidences than one scattered about of Lion's guilt; moreover, there were two especial circumstances which told against him very. badly: when he ostensibly recognized his master he assumed an air of hypocritical penitence, but whien Ike first came up the height he affected to be asleep. Poor Lion! Thou art not- the first or the last who has sought, by lying, to cover sins to which thou wast driven by the unmerited persecutions of society. After that night, Ike felt no less love for his old friend ; he eyen felt more tenderly toward him since there mingled with the g    ,     ,   sentiment an increased impulse of pity. Yet he had also an ill- defined emotion of dread and self-accusation ; for he now knew that he was shielding a criminal. Alas! for the poor unfortu- nates, the cast-offs and tabooed ones of the world, when even the compassionate hearts which have sheltered, begin to waver as to whether justice has really braced their arm when it inter- posed the pitying shield. Lion was now made fast in bonds intended to defy his utmost cunning. The chain was doubled, and a rope was added to sup- plement its restraints. The cry of vengeance was on the gale and nothing should now be left to chance. When all was done, Ike delivered a long and touching expostulation on the impro- priety of Lion's conduct and the risks to which it subjec+ed him. But Lion did not listen with the same apparent interest and clear- ness of apprehension as before, and once or twice he turned his head sullenly away. Injustice was doing her work and his con- science was becoming seared.- Ike pondered long and anxiously about the best means of saving his favorite's life. There was no doubt but the danger was imminent. Some of the villagers had talked of poison and some of steel, but there were certain perils about the. use of either which led them to be objected to. Gunpowder was free firom such, so that it was generally agreed that the dog should be shot. Whenever he might again make his nocturnal way into the village, half-a-dozen guns would be ambushed for him, and by one of these it was resolved that Lion should fall. Still, there seemed. to be no safer place than Sugarloaf for the hunted beast to abide in. The danger of his being discovered there was small, but that of his again descending among his enemies was considerable. To insure against this, Ike took all possible precaution. For several days a bitterfeeling prevailed in the village. Some one had started the idea that the dog was intentionally hidden about the farm. Then there followed much prowling and spy- ing around the premises, which did not quite please the Arm- strongs, but which made Ike morose and savage. The fourth ,night after Lion's last escapade, his master, on attemptingto leave the homestead to visit him, :found that he was watched. Two men had been lurking in the adjacent fields with guns. They saw Ike emerge from the house; and they followed in his tracks. He had gone nearly a mile, when, by accident, he became con- scious of the fact. One of the men in scaling a wall knocked a stone or two -off its top. Ike did not look behind, but kept on for a hundred yards more, and then turned and led his pursuers   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE. '       455 a wild dance for several mijes through woods and meadows, and then retraced his way to the farm. Thus he gave up seeing Lion or taking him food for that night. The following morning, he got hold of an old fowlingpiece of Dick's and carefully loaded it, putting buck shot in both barrels, and scrupulously cleaning and priming the nipples to insiure that it did not miss fire. Was Lion to starve because his relentless foes were keeping him in virtual blockade? No; that very night he would make his way to Sugarloaf by hook or crook and take him supplies. The weather was atifing hot and the animal could do without food, perhaps with advantage, but not without water. Water he must have, at all hazards, and that night he should have it. Alas! that night was too late. It was nearly evening, and the red sun was going down in ablaze of sultry glory. The cows were flocking lazily up to the farm-yard or standing in odorous complacency at the gates. The men had come in firom toil, and were bathing their flushed and sunburnt faces in the cool water,  for which poor Lion had yearned and yearned in vain. Mrs. Armstrong was blinking over her glasses at the setting sun, and Kitty was bustling after her handmaid, who was getting supper. Suddenly there rose firom the direction of the village a fearful, an appalling yell! and the boy, who threw down his milking- pail and dashed off to the nearest house, came scampering back, his face white with terror. A mad dog! A mad dog was in the village 1  It had been seen slinking down the old Saybrook pike towards the Armstrong Farm, and some boys had driven it toward themain street, where it had bitten a child, and was running about snapping furiously at all in its way. Presently two shots were heard in quick succession, and a neighbor ran in to say it was their dog Lion; he had gone mad, certainly; they had fired at but did not succeed in disabling him, and he had escaped into the woods on the south side of the burying-gTound, with 'half the village in hot pursuit! All this took scarcely a minute, and before the words were well out of the last messenger's mouth, Ike had dashed off to the barn, seized his gun from its place of hiding, and was running across the fields like a deer. Not far behind him came Luke and Dick Railes, and behind them again came the laborers of the farm. The whole party, as well as Lion and his pursuers, were con- verging upon Sugarloaf Hill. Happily the dog had managed to get a long start of his enemlies, and, although wounded, his legs were safe, and he pressed, as Ike expected, straight for his retreat. He had broken his collar and airped for the farm, but       /          ,    .   456 .         And ROOKE; OR, set upon as he had been, and driven obliquely in another direc. tion, he could not now, without facing his assailants, carry out  this design, while he could readily run toward the hill. When Ike got there, the dogwas in his lair. Breathless with the speed of his flight, which had been thus concluded by climb. ing the, precipitous slope, Ike threw himself on the turf to re- cover. It was smeared and dabbled with blood! Poor Ike found his hands all covered with it, and-without looking for his friend, he burst out crying. At which Lion came crawling forth-crawling with great difficulty, for he was sorely wounded, and well-nigh spent; but he crawled to where Ike lay, panting and sobbing like a stricken hart, and licked his hands, and then his face, with a comforting expression that was very pitiful. And Ike put his arms around Lion's neck and kissed his head again and again as if he had been a human being, while the dog, with all the feeble expres- sion which was left to him testified his love and joy. It was the only living thing the poor simpleton had ever loved. Attached he had been to Gifford, but that was a secondary feel- ing, friendship or gratitude, engendered of the first. Was it foolish then, or absurd, this tenderness for a poor, dumb brute? I do not think so; nor would any one who could have gazed upon that scene and read aright the world of sympathy and af- fection, which darkened mind and brute instinct could thus in- terchange to console and bless each other. The roar of bitter, threatening voices came nearer and nearer, and the sun's disk was on the horizon. They were coming straight to the quarry. Some one had seen Lion toiling up the steep, and the whole array of avengers were following in his track. On one side came the patty of the village headed by the man whose child was said to have been bitten, and who carried a musket. Nearer and nearer they came, until at last their heads, then their bodies, then their feet were level with the top of the hill. Lion crept closer to his master, and laid his head on Ike's lap.  "Move!" gasped the foremost man, thickly. "Move so's I shan't hurt ye!" and he presented his musket. "Don't be rash, Anderson!" cried Luke, coming up close be- hind. "Let's hear, any way, what the poor brute's done!" "Done!" roared the crowd in derision, "done, enough, I guess!" "He ain't no safe critter to have round!" "He bites folks!". "He kills sheep!" "'Taint right to the neighborhood to let him live!" "Bitten my child!" retorted Anderson for his part, who'll   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        457 die, like enough; anyhow, he will!" and again he threw the mus- ket up to his shoulder. It's true, Mr. Armstrong," said a calm-looking man with a deep red face and white hair, "I see poor little Susy bit, and a bad bite it was too. She was playing in the road, and she hove a stick jest like this, and " ," He'll die, any how,'.' exclaimed Dick Railes, who had been hastily examining the dog's hurt with an utter disregard to the tale of his being rabid. , He's shot clean through the side, and two ribs are broken!"  "Then make an end on't! It's a mercy! Kill him off and have done!" shouted the crowd. "I said I'd kill him, and I will!" cried Anderson fiercely. "He was druv to it-druv to it!" murmured poor Ike, the tears falling fast on Lion's head; and, drawing him closer to his bosom, "You druv him to it, among ye-you shan't kill him for it!"The villagers were now closely huddled about the group, and their murmurs grew each moment more ominous and threatening. Consent, Ike," whispered Luke, kindly; "poor, dear old Lion is sadly hurt, and will thank us for being out of his mis- ery--indeed he will!" "Once for all," roared Anderson, noisily supported and urged on by the crowd, " stand aside, and let me fire!" A gleam of resolution flew over Ike's face, and he dashed the back of his hand across his eyes. The parting rays of the sun gilded his forehead as he sprang to, his feet and looked up to Heaven as if seeking there for the mercy denied by man. "Me, then!" cried Ike hoarsely.- No one else shall touch him!" and, quick as light, he levelled his gun while Luke and Dick pressed back the others. Instantly the-report of both bar- rels followed; the contents of both had passed through Lion's heart. The dog died without a cry. But Ike, without pausing to close the poor brute's forgiving eyes, threw the fatal gun far down the hill, and with a groan of. anguish fell insensible across the body.  20   458         MARIAN  OO1KE; ORB CHAPTEIR IV. XKITTry ARMSTRONGO had lately become Kitty Railes; for after mnany postponements and excuses concerning the new house, the bridal trousseau, the absence of somebody she wanted for a bridesmaid, the illness of somebody she wanted for a grooms- man, and the like, the marriage ceremony was consulmmlated at last in the old village church of Saybrook. Things were managed very quietly for more reasons than one. It was not quite seemly, for example, when so old a friend-and a firiend to whom, in spite of his distant ways, they were all sincerely attached-lay ill in the house of a malady which might yet prove mortal, to indulge over much merry-making. Then they had failed to see Marian; and not only failed to see, but even to hear from her. Luke, his father, and the Doctor had repair- ed to the agent's together, to make inquiries. Mr. Rivingstone had gone South, for how long they did not know, and to what particular quarter they were not informed; they presumed that Miss Rooke accompanied him; at all events, it was business connected with her affairs which had taken Mr. Rivingstone away; but it was quite impossible to tell when he, or she, or both might return. It was much the same account as that which Hugh received when he also returned Trom California; and the South was quite as large as Europe to hunt about in. So Kitty, after fretting and vowing she would not be married unless Marian came to help her, and after writing her some half-dozen long let. ters, which neither she nor any one else had the least idea how to direct, finally consented to a very plain wedding without her. For Dick's part, he had a great respect for'k Mr Gifford, and truly hoped he'd get well and hearty again; but as for a grooms. man, he'd as soon have the Doctor as anybody; or, failing him, the theodolite would no doubt have equally answered his pur- pose. On the whole, then, the happy pair had a cheerful rather than a merry honeymoon. They went bff to Boston during the first week; but Dick came back in high dudgeon, swearing he had seen more hypocritical faces, starchy airs, tippling of bad whis- key on the sly, and general under-hand and make-believe doings, than he allowed could be found from St. Paul's to the Rio   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE,       459 Grande. Hugh, was not yet strong enough to talk or be talked to in a general way, else Dick would have perhaps found in him a sympathizing auditor. Hugh lay on his couch and heard the old church bells peal out for Kitty's wedding. A little while, he thought, and the year of probation would have passed which wAs to have brought his union with Marian. It was strange she had never sent to inquire for him, since she must have heard of his illness. Surely it need not have compromised her in any way to send a kindly message, to ask whether he was like to live or die. And yet, he thought bitterly, it was the way of the world. He was in the position of Jacques' wounded deer, and even his lost love followed the example of the herd of " fat and greasy citizens" which swept on without even a look for "the poor and broken bankrupt there." Hugh did Marian injustice; she had gone South with Mr. Rivingstone on the third day after sending her letter, and was ' entirely ignorant of what had befallen during the week which succeeded the adventure in the Bay. She supposed him as rich and as prosperous as ever, nor could she doubt, after what she had heard, that however her resolution, and the missive in which it was set forth, may have given him pain, Hugh would soon find consolation in the smiles of Edith Parapet. Some people are very much swayed by what they deem the inevitable consequences of certain romantic-juxtapositions or ac- cidents in affairsof the heart. If a man stops a runaway steed, or saves -a woman from a burning house, he must marry the rescued party by the same law which led gallant knights of old to espouse the damsels they preserved from remorseless tyrants. When Gifford leaped overboard and sustained Miss Parapet in the yeasty waves, amid which she was cast by the boom of the Ariadne, the Town cried out at once for a match, never mind whether well or ill assorted; never, mind whether the lady were a Thompson or a Parapet; never mind whether the gentleman were plebeian or patrician. The eternal fitness of things demand- ed, in any event, that an exception should be made if need be, or even a miracle performed, rather than that a bold young man who had saved a fair young maiden's life should not, earn the right to male it happy ever after. Marian fell into this way of thinking more readily than if she had not been personally interested in the result. She could not bear to think of being a stumbling-block in the way of poetical justice. Perhaps this made her the more ready than she should have been to set Gifford free by bringing their engagement to a   ,      ,       4oU         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, close. At the same time, she did not forget that Hugh could, if he chose, refuse his consent to such an abrogation. If he chose, he might fly to her side; might explain away what seem- ed so equivocal in the speech of Edith Parapet; might renew his vows of constancy.' But were he disposed to take such a course at all, he would take it at once. There was certainly nothing-ought to be nothing-to deliberate about. Either her imputations, and the deductions to which they pointed, were  sound and substantially grounded, or they Were not. In the lat- i ter case there was not a shadow of reason or excuse for delay.  In the former, there was nothing better for Hugh to do than to receive her letter in silence. Now when that letter arrived, he was too ill even to open it. There was, however an interval between the time of its coming and the access of delirium when he read it through. His phy- sician had directed otherwise, but the letters had been laid on his dressing- table, he had recognized Marian's hand, ran hastily through the contents of her missive, and, all weak and unstrung as he was, he had sunk on the bed in a fainting fit. The same evening he tried to write a reply, failed, and at midnight was quite out of his head, and equally incapable of either writing or thindking at all. Marian waited for three miserable days, and then quietly signified to her guardian and friend, Mr. Riving- stone, her willingness to comply with a wish expressed by him some time before, to expedite the business which he was con- ducting in her behalf, by a visit to the South. But although Hugh felt pained by Marian's apparent indifference to his fate, he was too profoundly impressed by a sense of his own unwor- thmess, and by the conviction that he had given her bitter pro- vocation, to question the justice of her behavior. It was his fault, he thought-as the merry bells pealed forth, and awakened so sad a response in his heart-his fault, and not Marian's, that they were not pealing for his own happy nuptials. He found a melancholy pleasure in pouring his self-reproaches into the ear of Luke Armstrong. Perhaps he had some subtle feeling that it would afford Luke satisfaction to know how un- worthy a rival Marian had preferred to himself. Perhaps he thought it a sort of atonement to Marian that he should humbly and unreservedly confess his short comings, and, with many a protestation of unalterable and devoted love, should acknowl- edge his unworthiness to be loved in return. Luke listened gravely to all this, checking the speaker when he talked too much or became over-excited, and occasionally putting in a question or a suggestion, until he had become   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        461 thoroughly acquainted with all the details of Gifford's life since he had left Armstrong's Bar. It seemed to him so utterly in- comprehensible, that a man blessed with the love of such a creature as Marian should neglect or undervalue it, that the whole discussion had something of the interest for him wtich would have attached to some curious psychological problem. Finally, one day--he felt there was no indelicacy in the step with such a man and such a friend as Luke-Hugh gave him her last letter to read, together with his own attempted reply, a bro- ken, incoherent fragment enough, which he found folded within the other, although he had not the faintest recollection of having placed it there. It was something like this: "I am  ill-ill, dearest Marian, and your letter falls on my brain like words of fire. You may be unable to believe that what was said surprised me . .. as well as yourself. Weak I have been . . , vain, foolish . .. but not such a mean, despi- cable wretch-not a liar, nor yet a hypocrite. Ah, my darling, the gold, the wretched gold, which stood between us like a mock- ing shadow, poisoning love, and forbidding happiness, is taken from me now! I am poor again, Marian . . . a mere, house- less, penniless adventurer, as I was when you first knew me. Don't hate me now. I am again become what I was when you first loved me. Don't turn firom me now that there's no money to come between us. Do you think others will smile upon, pity or comfort a poor shattered bankrupt, only because you cease to do so?  'Isee you -again on the prairie, Marian! . . with yourglossy locks flying in the wind, with your flashing dark eyes all alight with the love of freedom. Fearless as Diana, beautiful as Venus, untrammelled, unchecked, all radiant with the joy of a new- gained liberty: . . Long before I knew you loved me . . . long before we heard together the war-whoop of the savage ... before we saw together' the accursed gleam of the gold . . . Oh, ' my own one, if we could find some spot where money, and what they call society, were not, we might yet . . . do not desert, but forgive. . . darling . . forgive ..." Then there were a few feeble, munintelligible scratches, and that was all. It was much the kind of incoherency that Hugh had uttered in his delirium. Luke read it over steadily twice, and then his eyes filled, and one drop fell upon the paper, adding another to several misty blurs which, were there already. Some men, so circumstanced, in reading such a correspondence, would have felt anger-some self-pity---some a not unpleasing contempt. f   4G2         MARIAN ROOKE  OR, What Luke felt, I will not say, but leave it to be judged by his actions. Soon after the wedding, after he had seen the bride all blush. ing in a new white bonnet, a delicate blue watered-silk, and a snowy china-crape shawl; after he had seen the bridegroom, more shamefaced than Kitty, with a new shining beaver, con- tinually dropped about the floor, and a glossy suit of black broad-cloth-Gifford, to the alarm and anxiety of all at the homestead, had a relapse. Luke had gone to New York on some matter of business, so that the task of watching devolved chiefly upon his father and Ike. The doctor was with his patient during most of the day, but he had undertaken to attend to some others, to visit whom he must traverse long distances by country roads, so that at night he was obliged to get sleep. However, Seth was a con- scientious watcher, and his helpmate the best of nurses, while, since his bereavement, Ike's affections seemed to have fastened themselves upon Hugh with more adhesiveness than ever. Thus although Luke was absent, aswell as his sister and her husband, there was no danger of the invalid being neglected. Hugh suffered from no want of care, medical or auxiliary, but he had been very much weakened by the previous violence of the disease. He was sadly emaciated, and when Doctor Lan-  dale found that the fever had really come back with much of its old fury, he, for the first time, felt grave apprehensions. When Luke returnedk after less than a week's absence, he was horrified to see the change. Again the struggle was renewed between the forces of youth and vigor and those of death and decay. For many a long summer night did Luke aad Ike sit up anxiously watching the progress of the battle. For many a long summer day did the doctor glide in and out of the darkened room, taxing to the uttermost every resource of his skill to rein- force the vitality which was put to so fearfully exhausting a strain. Hour after hour did Ike sit, solemnly studying the sick man's movements, ready to give him drink, to turn his pillows, or to summon help as the case might be. Ike's brain was clearer now than it had ever been before, but he found it hard, as he sat with his red hair brushed smoothly behind his ears, and his hands folded meekly before him, to understand why it was that a man who had craved for a thing so earnestly as Hugh Gifford had craved for gold, and who had had his aspirations so abund- antly gratified, should have been mnade so prostrate and miser- able, so abject and dying, even, as there was so great cause to   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       463 fear, as the only tangible fruit of his good fortune. Why, if Heaven had but seen fit to preserve the life of poor Lion, Ike thought, for his part, he would have been sufficiently happy!  And Luke sat and pondered too, after his fashion; ponder-  ed on the strangeness of the dispensation by which Providence had vouchsafed-not money, he cared little for that-but such advantages of reading and knowledge and wisdom, and to be crowned by the love of an angel, a very angel upon earth, such as Hugh Gifford had enjoyed, only to bring him to such a sad plight of suffering and hopelessness as this! Ah! if Marian could only have loved himn! But it was a selfish thought, and Luke thrust it manfully from him. He had that to do with which the indulgence of such a thought was incompatible. The crisis came at last, and youth and vigor once more won the victory. It was after the-harvests were gathered, at the season when Hugh had played his little comedy with Virginia Chester, that the fever was once more expelled from his wearied frame, and the sufferer felt slowly but surely that reviving elasti- city which braces the nerves and lightens the heart with the ap- proach of convalescence. Life was spared; but he had been near enough to the Dark Valley to feel its damps-near enough never thenceforth to forget its sombre but salutary teachings. /f o C-APTER V. IT was the fall of the leaf. The yellow corn was all ravished from the fields, which looked desolate and pitiful in then' naked- ness. The foliage, shredded from the trees, flew hither and thither, fiecking the roads and hedges with patches of crimson, of purple, and of gold. The bleak winds, forerunning the ap- proach of winter, came singing and moaning in from the ocean, and lingered about the gables and roof-points of the old home- stead, and whispered among the denuded elms as if greeting so many old acquaintances there. And the glassy, placid Sound was angry and ruffled at last, bearing in ceaselessly, as it did, firom the main " the sea's swift fringe of foaming lace." The iush of repose which had so long brooded over the place while Gifford was passing through his wrestle with disease was blown away by the autumn gales, and the color came back to his   "4       .  MARIAN ROOKE; 0l, cheek while the rosy apples were tumbling from their branches, and the barns were puffing out with their harvests, and the sail in the offing bowed lower and lower to sharp gusts from the darkening east. But what cared they at the homestead? Ample store had they in- abundance, and more than enough for charity. For in that neighborhood, although the soil be sterile, and the seasons sometimes bitter, firee schools are many and labor dear; so that beggary is pleasantly rare, and the low plea for food which, to unused ears, gives such a sound of shame, is almost unheard, save now and then from some chance old-world wanderer, who, by a cruel mistake, has set his face toward the rising, instead of toward the setting, sun. What cared they at the homestead? Notwithstanding their independence, long custom had made a measure of toil rather sweet to them than otherwise, and, for all their money in bank and their hired laborers on the farm, they had fairly earned ease and jollity for the winter, by working with a will through the summer. And Hugh, whose state had been the cloud which dimmed the cheery sunlight of their recovered home, was nearly well now, so that apprehension for his sake was thought of no more. And sounds of laughter were heard about the house. It was not a house to shake, as many are said to do, with such sounds. Although built in America, it was too solid for that-like some other things built there, which transatlantic prejudice would fain believe both fragile and ephemeral. You might laugh in it, shout in it, play blind-man's-buffin it,almosttrotyour horse up stairswith- out doing more damage than to set the venerable timbers creaking. It was built by strong arms, asthe'ir name betokened. It was not built for along lease, as some English houses are said to be,which, at the expiration of ninety-nine years, will almost punctually rattle down of themselves, like so many castles of cards. There are some exceptions to received rules; there are such things as flimsy struc- tures in the Old World, and such things as substantial structures in the New, and Armstrong homestead was one of them. May be the savor of sturdiness about the old place did some- thing toward making a strong man again of our hero. There is a sense of security which is reassuring in itself when the floors do not rattle and shiver under one's foot, and the whole house- hold is not advertised when one crosses a room. And when Hugh first went down the firm staircase, flinked on the landings by certain images of'dead-and-gone agriculturists, the like of which he had never seen before, and came into the low cozy par- lor, where Mrs Armstrong and Kitty had just been putting up   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        465 red curtains, and where a snug little fire was throwing ruddy rays on unheard-of treasures of china and patchwork, he cer- tainly felt better for the solid character of all that he saw and felt around him. It was evening, and the skies and fields looked rather sad as Hugh gazed at them through the small panes of the windows. But there was a gaiety within which made amends, for the fami- ly had assembled to give their guest a greeting on the occasion of his first descending among them since his illness; and they determined to give the gathering as far as possible the character of a merry-making. The Doctor was there, with his hard Scotch face wreathed in congratulatory smiles, and Kitty was laughing and showing her white teeth, and Mrs. Armstrong was beaming and quivering over her spectacles, as if there were no such cares as the possessionyof superabundant patchwork and china entailed in the world. And Seth stroked Hugh's delicate fingers in his great horny hand, as if it had been, what indeed it looked like, a woman's; while Dick Railes, promoted to his dignity of Ben- edict, regarded him with a half-superior, half-reverential affec- tion, which could hardly have been exceeded if he had been a theodolite.  On Luke's face alone there was a trace of anxiety and thought, a look which betokened, if not distrust, solicitude as to some- thing to come. Luke was weary perhaps. He had had much to do of late. A great deal of the head-work of the farm de- volved on him; and as, when it was purchased, it was but imper- fectly stocked and supplied, he had been often not only to large towns near at hand, but also to the metropolis, to make his pur- chases. Only that very morning he had come firom New York, and his honest face showed signs, as has been said, of anxiety and, fatigue. But he had been at home in time to give Hugh an arm down stairs; to see his easy-chair comfortably placed by the chimney corner ; to help to raise the joyous shout of welcome when the invalid made his appearance in the parlor ; and to rejoice with heartfelt satisfaction when he saw that the evidences of returning vigor were genuine, and not like to be, as they had been before, deceptive and transitory. Presently Ike came in, and went up and shook hands with Hugh, with a smile very different from what used to come on his face long ago ; and it looked as strange to the others as it did to Hugh, for it was the first that had been seen there since tle day that Lion died. The skies grew darker and darker as the sun went down, and   "6      -MARIAN ROOkiE; OR, Y ,     the rays from the little fire grew redder and redder. Tea was brought in, with a plenitude of those mysterious dishes which in New England are wedded to it; but as yet no candles. The company laughed, and chatted, and joked, and Kitty skipped thrnough the folding-doors, and came back after a little while with a slice of her wedding-cake, which Mr. Gifford must eat, doctor or no doctor. There were as yet no candles, or it might have been seen that Kitty's cheeks were strangely flushed, and her blue eyes wet, as though something had happened to excite her by the way.. "It seems so curus," said Seth, through the twilight, "socurus, and yet so nateral, thatwe should all be brought together again. It looks as though it had been allowed we was to live together allers, and not to part at all. It looks as though, do what we might, we was to fetch together, in the long run, jest like the mercoory and the gold at the bottom of a pan.'" "You being the gold, and I the quicksilver," said Hugh, with a faint smile. "No," returned the old man, "exceptin' in one sense perhaps, that you've done a sight-to clear us away firom the dirt. I don't know much myself, not havin' been brought up among the eddi- catedl; but I know that the schools and the teachin' air what'll make us great and free-and, please God, keep us so. And I know that our folks here--our Luke and our Kitty-both on'erm bless 'em-and even rough Dick, who used to be stubborn and sarsy-air all better and happier for bein' with you and the Doctor, and--and--Mary Anne." He pronounced the last name with a sort of compunction- with an apologetic accent that might have been attributed to various motives. Hugh did not pause to try to select any par- ticular one, but, like Kitty, he reddened invisibly in the dark- ness, and said: "Heaven knows, good firiend, I had mote to learn from you than you from me. - Steadiness, patience, content-in the place and with the gifts I had been blessed withal-all these was I sadly deficient in-all these mightlhave learned from you, who had them abundantly. But I was proud-proud, vain, and blind,-believing that I could teach, indeed, but not learn-and the result is well deserved." ' Stuff, man! '" grunted the Doctor. "You're not more than half out of your tantrums yet. What have pride, vanity, and blindness to do with the failure of Ingott and Gollop? You've had a vein of ill-luck, that's all. If you had been Moses and   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.       467  Solomon, rolled into one, you couldn't have kept a couple of rascally contractors firom failing!" v Or Panghurn from robbing our strong box," laughed Hugh. "Now it appears to me that the prudence and foresight we all lacked in that matter have been-although in a greater degree-. my deficiencies to the end of the chapter. Bnt I doubt if my last betrayers ever seek to make them up as that extraordinary being, the first, has done." When Hugh was well enough to be trusted with his letters, he had found among them some which excited very opposite emotions. Those of condolence were few; two from Clinton Parapet, who was most anxious to come to him, and who beg- ged Hugh to command his purse, or anything that was his, without stint; and one firom Eldon Clyde, offering, if nothing better presented, to get him a place on the staff of a very respec- table newspaper at Albany. There was a communication from Mr. Doke, urging an assignment or some other provision for the payment of a large -balance, which he affirmed he had paid to different ward politicians for keeping Gifford's name before their constituencies, and paying for unlimited whiskey on account of the same for caucus nights. But the letter which gave Hugh most surprise was from no other than the redoubt- able Panghurn himself. It was dated firom Palmyra, and from the context it would appear that, the writer had prospered enor- mously. After a general expression of sorrow for Hugh's mis- fortunes, which he said " afflicted him the wuss as bein' them of an old pard," and after a remarkable passage wherein he con- trasted Hugh's improvidence and folly with his own wit and sagacity, Mr. Panghurn added a mysterious calculation, which would have puzzled Cocker and Colburn together to understand. Toward the end appeared a statement of a sum which. after pro- found reflection, Hugh decided was intended to represent the principal and interest of his share of what the writer had ab- stracted firom Armstrong's Bar; and the letter concluded with an intimation that if he would like to have this sum for a loan, tak- ing his own or an indefinite time for its payment, Mr. Panghurn would send a negotiable check there for, on receipt ofadvise to that effect. On the whole, it appeared that Zelotes was really desirous to do an act of justice and atonement, but in such a manner that he might avoid responsibility to other claimants; and he evinced his sincerity, when Hugh, after consideration, wrote him word that he would like to receive the sum in question, by sending the-check by return of post. "We're very lucky so far as that's concerned," said the Doc- r     *u k   "8         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, tor, "no dpubt the -rascal owns whole streets of stone-front blocks by this time, bringing him 12 per cent. with the greatest ease; and if we lose our little fortunes, he'll doubtless offer us all ' loans: in like manner!" "I don't know that I'd mind much what he called it," observ- ad Seth, sagely, " so long as he paid the money." "That is to say," said the Doctor, " he may keep his charac- ter if he'll disgorge our dollars. I've-known many small rascals, what you may call retailers of their consciences, selling small bits for small profits, but he was the most delicious, wholesale scoundrel I everstumbled upon." "Ah," murmured Mrs. Armstrong plaintively, "he was such a good judge of patchwork and chiny!" "I've often thought," continued Seth, " howwon'erfullv we all got our wishes jest as we sot round and wished for 'em three years ago. I recolleck the Doctor put it to me one Saturday night as we was all gathered together to know what, most of anything, I ambitioned." - "And your answer was a very modest one," laughed the Doctor, "at least yourfirst answer; do you remember it?" A wood rooPd be slicker'n a cotton one, and a nice barn with stalls is a sight better'n a corral," quoted Dick Railes, with great accuracy. "But arterwards," said Seth, 'I made alarger mouth; rather I said if I was awful lucky I'd like to spend my old age on the Blueberry Hill Farm, at Old Saybrook, where my grandfather's bones is, my father havin' bad luck and bein' obleeged to sell when I was-a little shaver. Them was my words. But I never tho't, I allow, that they'd come actooally true ." "You said something else, Uncle Seth" said Hugh, " which you don't repeat, but which was of more consequence than aught else. You said you were always content with what Providence saw fit to send, and that you were not going to begin to be a grumbler now. You said, too, with reference to our adventure on the Plains, that, aside from having a roof, we ought to be grateful for having heads safe and sound to put under it, and that, -for one, you were willing to rest and be thankful." "And I grumbled and found fault that you wouldn't tote six bureaus-full of linen fixings and chiny and patchwork across the plainsf" put in Mrs. Armstrong, penitently, " which wasn't very Christian-like o' me, let alone if ye had, I'dprobeily never had 'em here at home safe and sound, nor yit had 'em at all!" "As to Panghurn," proceeded Seth, continuing his reminis- \   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        469 cences, "he wanted a stone-front block in Utica, and I spose he's got it." "And Mr. Gifford wanted to be rich enough to go and travel in Europe," cried Kitty, "and he did it!" "What was your wish, Dick?" asked theDoctor; ,"doyou re- member it?" "I reckon : a good double-barr'l, a good dog, a good house, and a good horse, play-day half the time, and a-a pooty gal to' help me enjoy it!" replied Dick, with more promptness perhaps than he would have exhibited by daylight. "And Luke tho't if he could hev his time he'd like to get some books and read, and study for a year or two," said Seth, with pride, "and sure enough he has! So that we can see, as I said afore, how won'erfully all our wishes has come to us jest as we sot around and wished for 'emr three year ago!"  ' All except the Doctor's," cried Kitty, archly. "Don't you remember, Doctor-' A cottage on the Clyde, with many friends and few patients ; with a pretty view, and enough to feel easy without being rich?'"  "I've got all but the first item, Miss Kitty," retorted the Doc- tor, "and can have that when I like; so my shortcoming needn't be set against the unanimity of our good luck." "Shan't we say of our good Blessings, rather," said Seth, seri- ously, " for it seems to me when folks are made so happy as we air, when prosperity comes to 'em that their own good works never deserved, when each particular wish, even, comes true more than often it does in a fairy story ; it seems to me that there's somethin' better'n luck about it, and that we ought to recognize and be grateful to a generous Providence." "Right, Seth," quoth the Doctor; " we are over-apt to credit a blind and heathen idol for what we ought to give praise to an All-seeing and Beneficent Ruler." "And Uncle Seth has a right to remind us of the omission," said Hugh, " since he thought of it, and recognized it when none of us did in his first aspiration,-the truest and wisest aspiration after all, the one that taught the best lesson philosophy has to teach, contentment and resignation." A faint sigh came from the window where Luke stood watch- ing the blackening shadows, and a moan of the wind answered from without as it thrilled th-ough the lonesome branches of the elms. Kitty threw more fagots on the fire, and it blazed up and set half-a-dozen weird figures dancing on the opposite walls and ceiling. ' I'd no idea," said Seth Armstrong, softly, " that a man so   470        MARIAN ROOKE; OR. poor and ignorant as me could teach anything wuth knowing to folks well eddicated, and up to all that books could teach 'cm. But I s'pose God has uses for all, even the humblest of us, and I'mn sure it makes me very happy to think that even onknowingly I've been put to any." "The humblest!" echoed IlHugh Gifford; " even they or those  who think themselves so, are evermore His chosen instruments. Even they, in His good time, are exalted, while the proud and vain are cast down. Surely we have an instance here which can- not be gainsaid. Of all our party that crossed the Plains, I was at once the least deserving and the most expecting. When your hopes were lowly, mine were presumptuously high. While you were content with little, happy with what Heaven saw fit to send, I was dissatisfied with much, and firetted for more than either my talent or my virtues made me worthy to receive, or fitted me usefilly to employ. Aly aspirations were answered at last, but to what end? Behold the sequel! To you who asked for so little, abundance is given, in the full confidence of a faith- ful stewardship. Abundance was also bestowed upon me, and, alas! for what purpose? That I might show, beyond the cavil of even my own proud and exacting nature, how greatly I had overrated my own strength of mind, bow unworthy I was of the trust to which I had aspired!" "Not unworthy," murmured Luke, "but unfortunate."' "Unworthy. We may trifle with our own future-our own health, mental or physical-our own happiness, in a word, if we will, and be debited alone for misfortune or imprudence; but we have no right to trifle with those of others; and when we do so, our conduct is unworthy, and no gentler word may fairly describe it."     / "And admitting the propriety of all this self-castigation," said the Doctor, cheerfully, "let us finish the picture. You have dealt literally with the shadows, let us now put in the lights. I'm nearly twice your age, and claim the privilege to use a free pencil. You have had a bit of experience which will serve you all your life. Whatever injustice you may have done to others, you are young enough, and ought to be good enough, to atone for. You have youth, talent, experience, as we have seen; soon will have health and strength; you have friends whom poverty won't alienate, even were there danger of it, which there isn't. [n a word, you have all before you which a reasonable man ought to expect or hope for to make him happy." *'No, not all."   471 THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.        471 "Not all? Then you're not truly repentant, and you're as difficult to please as ever b" , Truly," said Seth, warmly, "I think you ought now to be content.' ," Ald sodo I!" "And!" "And I!" went in a strange in- visible chorus round the little circle. Only one voice was silent, but it was not from dissent. "Alas!" said Hugh, mournfully, "that opinion should be so unanimous against me. But I must resist it still." "Tell us, then," pursued the Doctor, "tell us, oh! most exacting of men, what is needed to make you happy--to fill the measure of your joy?" "One thing," answered Hugh, " to name which is to prove that I ask less- hope less than of yore. One ithing-forgive- niess th And a sweet, solemn voice repeated the word as Kitty gently opened the folding-doors and let in a flood of light "If it will make you hape, you have it, Hugh. Oh, moment of ecstasy!  Oh, forgetfulness of all past tears, sickness, and misery[ Oh, joy never felt before, even -in the firlst consciousness of requited love!  Marian was in his arms-nestling there-close, closer, never to be parted more. And every fa   aligh t with pleasure, and every tongue musical with congratulation, except Luke's. And Luke's face was idden in the bcurtain of the window; and he could not, for his life, have made his tongue at that moment other than it was -speechless. But he lived a lifetime in those moments that' Gifford and Marian stood locked in that intoxicating embrace- and when they looked around for him, he hald noiselessly away, none knew whither. Had they sought, they would have found him lying under the stars on the bench he had built in the grove of pines-the bench which replaced the one he had made for Marian at Armstrong's Bar. It was all owing to Luke. He had never ceased to strive until he opened communication with Marian, until he had finally seen her, and, in his ownway and at hi s own time, told her all. - Ie told her of Hugh's misfortunes, his illness, and of his repent- ance, of how he r ad continually talked of her in his delirium, chargig himself with destroying her happiness as well as his own. Of' how, when reason returned, he still talked m the same strain, in words which none could hear without believing that they flowed fiTom a- fervent and undying love. Finally, ho   472         MARIA ROOKE  OR, had given her Hugh's letter-the incoherent letter he had written but did not send-in reply to her own; and Luke saw in Marian's face, when she read the blurry scrawl, that she would not refuse what he besought her to do-to accompany him to the old home- stead. Not all men would have behaved thus. Luke acted as he did because he was Luke; and if there are any who think his action was vain or incredible, that it brought him no reward, or that people never do such things in this selfish world of ours, I have only to say that they have never known Luke Armstrong. Marian and Hugh were married-of course. And they were happier, far happier than they would have been had the heyday of thei wooing never been darkened by a cloud. The influence for good which Marian exerted upon all who came near her was the stronger with Hugh now that he had felt its need; now that a sharp but salutary experience had admonished him that he was not sufficient unto himself ;- that his character manifestly required, irrespective of the tender promptings of love, that aid in its proper development, which a strong, affectionate, truth-seeing and truth-loving woman, like Marian Rooke, is so well fitted to bestow. And Hugh was not so proud now as to be unwilling to accept the little foltune which Marian was able to bring him. He had learned to know that to be behoven to those we love is not altogether a one-sided transaction; and that there are occasions in life when it is at least as graceful to receive as it is to give. Therefore he was not displeased when he heard that her father's faithful friend-and her own-had succeeded in recovering a considerable sum which had been bequeathed to her by will, but which the ingenuity of interested parties had enabled them hitherto to withhold. Hugh was comparatively poor, and Iarian comparatively rich and, on the whole, it was perhaps better, since discrepancy there must be, that it should lie in this direction. Hugh resumed his old profession, and labored at it manfully, strenuously, and in good time profitably. No doubt it strikes him now and then, that to be a lawyer in a country town is not quite so splendid as to be a member of Congress for the ---th District, even with Salathiel Doke as chief fugleman. But he is pressing steadily onwards, and I should not be in the least surprised if he reached such a distinction at last, without the disadvantage or the expense of so questionable an ally. Nobody will be surprised to hear that Clinton Parapet ran away with Flora Dimity. The blue-eyed fairy proved too much   THE QUEST FOR FORTUNE.         473 for him after all, and the escutcheon of the family has a cotton cross, which it is to be feared the stately lady at its head will never either forget or forgive. When I heard of this shocking casualty, for the first time in my life I ceased to envy Mr. Parapet, senior. The calm, luxurious ease of his existence, with its wealth of books and pictures and statues, and free- dom from  public cares as from private straits, no longer seemed so delightful. The ladies kept up a dignified silence. Their expressions became more distant, more pervaded with hauteur, than ever.  Their noses became more aquiline, and the' curl of their' chiselled lips more pronounced. They ceased to appear at balls of equivocal ton, and became more than ever inaccessible and exclusive. As a consequence, I hear that the reality of their existence has been more gravely questioned of late than ever; and that there are scores of people who  stoutly contend that there are no such people as the Parapets at all. To which I have only hum- bly to oppose my personal veracity, and to trust that the evidence contained in these pages will be received with that dispassionate consideration which it certainly de- serves. The fact that Edith Parapet married a real baron, in Florence, two years after the events related in these pages, would have no great weight in America, since many people there disbelieve in the existence of such a place as Florence at all; and-notwith- standing he was a real bona fide baron, and not somebody's valet-I should probably be flatly contradicted if I stated the circumstance. Still, I am glad to be able to put it on record in this unanswerable fashion; for I have always had a kindly feel- ing for Edith, and like to think she has prospered in the world, and outlived her old love-cross, in spite of some little defects which are hereditary, and always will be so, in the Parapet family. The last I heard of Messrs. Ingott and Gollop was, that they were trying to swindle the government in a stupendous gun- contract, and judging from all I know of their antecedents and consequents, there is very little doubt, indeed, but that they have been successful. Virginia's husband failed in business-they all do in that line- and went out West, where he repeated the same thing ad infini- turn. She has not improved much, poor girl, either in body or mind, firom her marriage of convenience; who ever does? The game is not worth the candle, but the fact is only discovered when it is burnt out. Mr. Gaycow withdrew the money he put   474         MARIAN ROOKE; OR, in the mortgage on old Chester's property, on the plea that he must collect all his resources, before the time of his failure. John Chester, however, came forward and advanced the sum in his place; and he makes his father pay the interest every .half year, and punctually to the day. Of the remainder of our characters nothing of special moment remains to be told. Generally speaking they move on in their old grooves, nibbling or snapping, as Mr. Gollop would say, at their -baits," and striving each in his vocation to get the better of the world. Most of them can be found to-day at their old trades, and any one may identify them who chooses to take the trouble. And Luke-dear, noble-hearted, self-sacrificing Luke!-is he to go on to the end of the chapter loveless, desolate, and alone? In one sense, I fear, he must. - He has never wedded, for he was not one to wed without loving, and for love, all that hie had to give in this world of such love, was poured out upon the altar of Marian. He loves indeed; he loves Marian's chubby children, who climb his knees, and would fight for them as he would for their mother! But- No more! For words are all in vain to convey what those who have known men like Luke Armstrong will feel without them; and those who have not, have something of human nature yet to learn, which it is not mine to fitly teach. But Luke lives, and has lived a type of that best character in America the staunch, well-to-do, well-read and conscientious farmer; thoughtful, patriotic, and out-spoken. He is, and ever has been, ready to serve a neighbor on a small scale, or to serve his country on a great one; and happy indeed has it been for that coun- tlry in this respect, and in her time of need, that, where she has had one man of the pattern of Doke, or Panghurn, or Gollop, she has had ten of the pattern of Luke Arm- strong. In the terrible storm which lately ravaged theiir native land, both Hugh and Luke did yeoman's service. I am not going to say upon which side they fought, for there have been good men, honestly persuaded they were in the right, who have fought on both; and I am not one of those whlo, when the battle is over, would strive to fan the expiring ashes of discord, even with the light words of romance. A holy conviction makes a holy cause; and the triumphs of brethren over brethren are best forgotten, except in so far as they teach a lesson, which is in its nature in- delible, of the folly of fighting against the laws of truth, of liberty, of God! All else may well be forgotten, as Hugh and Luke now   THE QIUEST FOT FORTUNE.       475 forget it in the joy wherewith the Angel of Peace is welcomed; while the Demon of War is fading away into the grisly Past, and the nations are looking in hope toward the bight promise of the Future. TIE END. /     Books Published by Sheldon      C Go. MARION HARLAND'S WORKS. Uniform editions of the works of this favorite authoress are now ready. AL  ONE.     1 volume.    12mo.   Price $1.50. HD    E-DRN PA TE. I volume. 12mo. Price $1.75. O0 SS     SI DE.     I volume, 12mo.    Price $1.75. rNEMESES. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1.75. IR IA    M.    1 volume.  12mo.    Price $1.75. H USKS. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1.75. NOmCES or "NEMESIS." "Itis a story of surpassing excellence-its scene laid in the sunny South, about half a century ago; its characters limned with a master's hand; its sketches graphic and t .il . ling, and its conclusion very effective. Such a work is beyond criticism, and needs no praise."-Troy American "In all the characteristics of a powerful novel it will compare favorably with the best produdtions of a season that has produced some of the most successful books that have appeared for a long ti3.m1"-Courier and Enquirer. "' Nemesis' is, by far, the best American novelpublished for very many years.-Phil ephia Prews. "It is worthy of note that the former works of this authoress have been republished in England, France, and Germany-indeed, no other American female writer has the honor of a republication in the Leipzig issues of Alphonse Durr, which embraces Bryant, Longfellow, Hawthorne, and Prescott."-N. Y. Home Journal. "Marion Harland, by intrinsic power of character, drawing and descriptive facility, holds the public with increasing fascination."-Washington Sgtasman   Books Publshed by Shead        & Co. "FE OF GEORGE WASHNGTON. By EDWAD EVERETTP   , LLD I voL, 12mo. 348 pages. With a steel-plate likeness of Mr. Everett, from the celebrated bust by Hiram Powers Price, in cloth, $1 50.  The last link of that golden chain which shall hereafter, for many generations, bind together the names of George Washington arid Edward Everett, has just been fittedinte its place. The unsefish labors of the scholar and statesmtnan, of whom we are all proud and whose successful devotion to the purchase of Mount Vernon has challenged the ad- miration of the world, are brought to a fitting conclusion in the compend of Washingf ton's Life. The biography is a model of condensation, and, by its rapid narrative and attractive style, must commend itself to the mass of readers, as the standardpopular Life of Washington."--Correspondence of the Boston Post. It is a nobler office to inspire one's countrymen with patriotic sentiments, with warm love and reverence for their institutions, than it is to take a conspicuous-part in the movements of the governmental machine. Mr. Everett is rendering a signal and needed service in recalling attention to Washington, and teaching us to appreciate the reasons why he has been adjudged the greatest public character that has appeared it human history.           *  .   *          *    , Mr. Everett is unrivaled by any man of his time in the ability to give eloquent expres- sion to the sentiment of patriotism."-From an able editorial in the World. "Mr. Everett's name is destined to be indissolubly connected with that of Washington -not only by his exertions in behalf of the tomb of the pater patrimnot only, even, by the Just and eloquent tributes he has paid, in words, to the name and fame of the sage of Mount Vernon. Even in England, and among the scholars and historians and states- men of the mother country, Edward Everett has come to be considered the fittest ehronicler of Washington's history, and the fittest annalist of his character."-N. Y. capress. "That it will be one of the most elegant, faithful, and charming productions of the day may readily be conceived. Probably no person in the country has studied the 'Father of his Country' more closely than the distinguished orator of Massachusetts. It will unquestionably be in great demand."-Boston Atlas, "It will, doubtless, as it should, find its way into every household, as the popular em. bodiment of Washington, and be seen alike in the costly library, surrounded by thou- sands of other volumes, and on the humble mantel, where, in connection with the Bible and Pilgrim!a Progres, it will form the entire stock of family readiag."-Adw York Ja. amieno. "It is a duodecimo elegantly printed. It tells the whole story without circum Locution-cleaxly, fully, faithfully, and with the simple force and fluency the theme re quires. It bas evidently been a labor of love. Familiar as are the incidents they read delightfully in Mr. Everett's diction, and are illustrated anew by many a fresh hint and Idea gathered by his long study and great love of the subject The work comes with singular propriety from his felicitous pen, as the orator whose eloquence has done so much to rescue Washington^s domain, hone, and sepulchre fromn desecration, and con- secrate them to the nation An excellent engraved portrait of the author, from Power's but, and fresh- material in the appendix, enhance the interest and value of tie chatin national souvenir."--Henry T. TuAkerman, the disngWiushed ,sayist.    :Booxs Published by Sheldon & Co.  .,,...  MARY BUNYAN, THE DREAMER'S BLIND DAUGHTE. )   1  A Tale of religious persecution. By MRS. S. ROcHESTE   FOOD, of Louiwsle. 1 vol., 12mo., 488 pages, Illustrated. Price $1 25. Frzom the New York Examitner. - The numerous readers of ' Grace Truman' have here another work on a topic of deep and thrilling interest, from the author of that highly popular book. Mary Bunyan, the blind daughter of the immortal dreamer, is referred to repeatedly in his autobiography and other works. She was about twelve years of age when Bunyan was imprisoned in Bedford jail, and his anxiety on her behalf was one of his principal causes of distress In his long Imprisonment.             - "As drawn by Mrs. Ford, her character seems to have been one of great modesty and loveliness, and the story of her love for William Dormer, and of his death for the cause of civil and religious freedom, has much of the pathetic element in it. Mrs. Ford is evi- dently thoroughly a fait in the incidents of Bunyan's family history, and in the topog. raphy of Bedford and Elstow. We can safely predict for the work an extensive sale." From t(e %ew York  vangelist.  "The simple incidents of Bunyan's life. his protracted imprisonment, his heroic endur once and lofty faith, are of themselves full of the deepest and most thrilling interest. It needed only the picture of his blind daughter Mary, in her gentleness and patience under sore misfortune, to give completeness to the tragic yet noble scenes in which Bunyan figures, ao modestly yet grandly conspicuous. The author of the volume before us has carefully gathered up such historical facts-and they are fortunately numerous and well authenticated-as could throw light upon her subject, and has employed them with great s&gacity and effect in the construction of her story." From the American Baptist, N. Y "The announcement of a new work from the accomplished authoress of Grace Tru- man, will send a thrill of delight through thousands of hearts. This book will be read with an enthusiasm rarely equaled. Think of the subject, the persecution of John Bun- yan, his family and the times. Who does not know him? Who does not want to hear him as he pleads his cause before unjust judges, and members of churches? his wife, as she seeks his release from the gloomy prison cell? his poor blind daughter, as she tries to help her weeping mother bear the burden of her bereavement? It is by no means untimely at this day, when so many shrink from suffering for truth and liberty, of speech. There will be many a moistened eye over the beautiful pages"of touching scenes in the history of one whom all know only to love. Before it was out of the press five thou- sand copies had been ordered, and we doubt not it will have an immense sale. It col- toins a few cuts illustrative of the scenes." From the Pittsburg hronticle. This is the last product from- the pen of a lady whose writings are rapidly becoming popular. Her last work, ' Grace TrUman,' had a sale of over 80,000 copies, and this om is said to be a better and a more interesting book. It is a very pleasing tale of fiction the scene of which is in ' Merrie England,' and the chief character, the immortal and rever-to-be-torgotten John Bunyan, writer of the Pilgrim's Progress." /     COLLEGE AND SCHOOL TEXT-BOOKS BY EMNENT PRACTICAL TEACHERS. THE NORMrAT, MA'H :MATIOAL SERIES. STODDARD'S JUVENILE MENTAL ARITHMETIC. Price 2 cents. STODDARD'S INTELLECTUAL ARITHMETIC. Price 40 cents. STODDARD'S RUDIMENTS OF ARITHMETIC. Price 56 cents. / STODDARD'S, NEW PRACTICAL ARITHMETIC. Price $1 00. STODDARD & HENKLE'S ELEMENTARY ALGEBRA. Price $1 25. STODDARD & HENKLE'S UNIVERSITY ALGEBRA. Price $2 00. *METHOD OF TEACHNG AND KEY TO INTELLECTUAL- ARITHMETIC] *KEY TO STODDARD'S PRACTICAL ARITHMETIC. Price 80 cents *KEY TO S. & H,'S ELEMENTARY ALGEBRA. Price $1 25. *KEY TO S. & H.'S UNIVERSITY ALGEBRA. Price $2 00. BULLIONS' SERIES OF GRAMMARS, ETO. INTRODUCTION TO ANALYT. AND PRAC. ENGLISH GRAMMAR. 50 cts ANALYTICAL AND PRACTICAL ENGLISH GRAMMAR. $1, 00. EXERCISES IN ANALYSIS AND PARSING. - 25 cents. "ATIN LESSONS, by Spencer, $1 00 introductory to Bullions' "ATIN GRAMMAR. $1 75. *LATIN READER. $1756.     *LATIN EXERCISES. $1 75. CA;SAR'S COMM. $1 75. CICERO'S ORATIONS. $1 75. SALLUST. $1 75T *LATIN ENGLISH DICTIONARY (with Synonyms). $3 00. GREEK LESSONS. $1 00.     GREEK GRAMMAR. $2 00. OGREEK READER. $2 50.     COOPER'S VIRGIL. $3 00. FRENCEH a  AND GEREMANt EPTis'lS NEW METHOD OF LEARNING FRENCH. $2 00. PEISSNER'S ELEMMENTS OF THE GERlMAN LANGUAGE. $1 75. YhlSIOLOGY, LOGI0, ASTRONOMY, ET0, HOOKER'S HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. $1 75. FIRST BOOK. 80 cents, WHATELY'S ELEM. OF LOGIC. $1 T5. ELEM. OF RHETORIC, $1 75. THOMPSON'S LAWS OF THOUGHT. $1 75. WAYAND'S INTELLECTUAL PHLOSOPHY. $1 75. BROCKIESBY'S ASTRONOMY. $1 75. *METEOROLOGY. $1'25. *BROCKLFESRY'S WONDERS OF THE MCROSCOPE. $1 25. PALMER'S PRACTICAL BOOK-KEEPING. $1 00. OLNEY'S SCHOOL GEOGRAPHY AND ATLAS (Revised). $2 50.. COMSTOCK'S NATURAL PHLOSOPHY. $1 75. CHEMSTRY. $1 75. Also several other Text Books by good Authors, for which, see our Catalogue, which is furnished gratis. ,We furnish to Teachers for Examination, postpaid by mail, a copy of any of the above books not having a * annexed, at half price. Those marked with a * we send on receipt of the prices annexed; H "'neNw &     r COMPANY, ?Publishers, New Yorwk.    
         
       
   
