
    ----CITATION----
        Norton, John N. (1820-1881). The Boy Who Was Trained Up To Be a Clergyman .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7341
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The boy who was trained up to be a clergyman 
            
               THE BOY  WHO WAS TRAINED UP TO BE A CLERGYMAN. BY JOHN N. NORTON, A. M., HECTOR OP ASCENSION CHURCH, FRANKPTORt MT. "The boy is father to the man."-WORDSWORTH. 18P4.   ENTERED according ,to at of Congress, in the year 1853, by JOHN N. NORTON, A. M., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Eastern Dis- trict of Pennsylvania. STEREOTYED BY SLOTE & MOONEY, Philadelphia.    MRS. MARY S. HANNA, WHOSE HEART AND HAND HAVr BEEN ALWTAYS OPEN FOR THE CHURCH'S GOOD  DESIGNED TO ,*&TfND THE INTERESTS AND ENFORCE THX RULES THE KINGDOM OF OUR LORD, IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED.   WE must take our children early to Chrlst that he my twhoh them with his transforming and renovating grace; and thyr gh the whole course of their education, we must remember that it -I in our power not only to train Wet for the felicities of heaven, but to make them instruments, in the hands of the Spirit for turning many to righteousness. Oh, that eau O iVIB tht resolve before God, that the guilt shal not be his, ifmultitudes of the rising generation are not made meet and willing "or'the service of the altar -plIS Po TTrm    PREFACE. THa constant and increasing demand for clergymen in the church has led to the proposal of various plans for supplying the deficiency. Any arrangement, as it seems to the writer, must be, merely kemprar which does not begin aright. Parents must be taught tfie dty and the priilege of devoting their sons to the ministry, and be shown the way in which their influence for good may be brought to bear upon the purpose designed, before the number of laborers will compare at ll with the greatness of the work. The following story-in its main details a true one- is presented, not without misgivings, as an humble offering for their guidance. May "the Lord of the harvest" bless it to this end, Feast of the Epiphany, 1853. 1*  PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. The rapid sale of the first edition of this work, the favorable notices of the press, and the an h kind Words of approbation from his eternal brethren in every part of the Union, have encouraged the author, amidst the distractions of many cares, to prepare a second edition, with a view of rendering it better dearving of the onotdenoe of the church. The whole work has, accordingly, been carefully revised, seven new chapters introduced, and a table of contents prepared. Apri 6th, 1854.    WAS not our LouD a little child, Taught by degrees to pray By father dear *ad mother mild Instructed day b  day And lovet nB nootf Hteaven to talk, With children in His sight To meet them in His daily walt, And to His arm invite?--[RKBU.   [st. Pau   to 2Ymtny. r .    f   '       ' -      ' * CONTE NTS. CHAPTER L The boy preacher-Playing behh-Pmarents' wish-Con. feg w4ChbUte iL qed^T HdJt*+ ', d, ternooo*st * --AppUcaioifovf edvine ,, . .#.................. .* " 15 CHAPTER II TWo weoe' suspense-Re0tor's letter-No marvelspromised -ith biirtday-Broaching an important suljdec-A little boy dream.................................................... 20 CHAPTER IIL Sister's departure-Good bye-Robinson Crusoe-Truant boys-No church-going bell-Launch upon the mill-pond -Dark close to a bright day ........................... 25 '- C^ GTCHAPTEF IV, Faults reproved--Little grdwn--ammers and saws-Les- sons in botny-Progree in knowledge-Friday dinner )--ng ^ Fmg+    w^....... .... ......... .....fan .. ... 31 CHAPTIR V. Christmas- Illunnation-Santa Clasub--Luy'W story- Isaiah's vlion--Evergreens.-8cene at ehurch--e age of glad-tiding .  ..................................,... 38 iv           ('i; )   r           CONTENTS. CHAPTER VI. Snow fortress-Napoleon-Siege and capture-The first oath-Bitter tears-Confession-A clergyman must be \a soldier-Sudden alarm ................................... 45 CHAPTER VII. Kicking up-Fox hunt in anticipation-The weak mothtr -Wise determination-New Latin grammsr-Hill of science .,...... ......................... .......5................. 1 CHAPTEt VIIL Young students-Lost time-Blundering recitation-Cireus -Amusements-The rabbit-Tea-table talk-Answer to prayer-Drawing lesson................... ..............;.. ** 56 CHAPTER IX. Rabbit warren-Ride to church-John Wesley-Sunday evenings-Bishop Hobart-Missions among the heathen , -Bible and prayer book-Who will be saved?..;..... . 82 CHAPTER X. Breakfast-Filling the ice house-Alarming symptomst-" Gloomy forebodings-Doctor's visit-Night of watchbigg -Pastor's prayers-Recovery-Thanksgiving.......   70 CHAPTER XL Opening spring-Establishment of a colony-Siok boy-. Arrival of friends-School for the poor-Sacrifices- Doing more than is agreeable ............................... 7 CHAPTER XIL Horse-back rides-Fishing-Bad temper cured-Old r . lion-Temperance in all things-Reotor's visit-Mr. Wfl - BOn-First fruits-Baptism.... .  ........... ^ e8 8  A   CONTENTS.           xi ,r4       CRCHAPTER XIIL Servile at the mill-Sermon for the times-Bishop Chase -Highways and hedges-Church colleges-Leaving home-The new trunk-Departure........................ 91 CHAPTER XIV. College examination-Freshman class-Fitting up a room -The first night-Noisy visitors-Free concert-Wel- come deliverance.......... ............. ...................  98 CHAPTER XV. Early prayer's bell-Pleasaut acquaintances--Boyish pranks -Religious principles-Sldt societies-Christian hS- roism-Midnight oyster sfpper--Persecuted monitor... 103 CHAPTER XVL Lent--Good Friday-Principle and poliay-The black board-Deacon Gillespie's party-New advocate for the truth-Spiritual fast.......................109 CHAPTER XVII. , Class meeting-Clay's speech-A bolt-Two heroes-Re- proach-Escape from death-Course of reading-Con- firmation-Stirring sermon ................... ...............  114 CHAPTER XVIIL Sunday night studies-Important resolution-Visit to the parsonage-Bncouragement-Ridiule- The enlistment -Good example--Bigotry-Ambasadors without a comr *  mission. .............. ..... . ... " .. * .....* ..*. 121 CHAPTER XIX. Innoent! enjoyments-Manly determination-Unexpected difficulties-The comet-Saturday night in the chapel ?-lEvery body astonished ........... ................. ... 129 ?   -CHAPTNR XX PAG The home of dipation-Heroes i   a quandary--reoe speotacles-Innoence at the bar of judgment-a.  -Rl tion, ........-. ..........................rtr,, .....  13 CHAPTER XXL Holidays-Lucy Mason-Family dinner-An old frend- Pastor's watohfulness-Advice and encouragement- First com   m union ...............    ...  14( CHAPTER XXII. Errors corrected by study--Dr. Miller-The whole truth -Proof-Economy and mesnness-Janitor's widow:- Choosing professlon--A fai omise-Painful parting. 14( CHAPTER XXIII. Junior year-New chum-Unruly freshmen-A good friend -Lttle southerner-Christmas holidays-T4roubles in thb distance-Sudden suimmons-House of mournitg -Another blowr.....  ,    ......... ......... ; l, t15  CHAPTR1 XXtV. Light in darknes--Young teacher-Making the best of oir. cufMstances-Gratifying present-Again at cllege-Ti- dingp from abroad-Taking adegree-Diffloulty removed 151 CHAPTfIR XXV. School of the prophets-The special prayer-Choice of a parish church-St. Peter's Sunday-school-Private de. Totlons-Mysterious Proyidence-Brand plucked from the burning .   ............. .............. 16' CHAPTER XXVL. Election-Excitement-Theological politician--Clergyten  notto vote-Bishop White and Bishop Griswold-Greaen wish lane-The broken head-Alice's mother......... . 7:   COONT   STS1.        xii 4       *  C-BCHAPTER XXVIL PAGN The directory-Lost sister-A stranger in the land-John Anderson-Happy thought--City missionary-Important record-Orphan houses and hospitals-Care for emigrants 179 CHAPTER XXVli. BUind asylum-Dangers everywhere-Timely caution- ' '  Itching ears-Misgivings and despondency-Bishop Wil- eon-Field of labor-Recovered blessings..............  185 CHAPTER XXIX. Ascension day-Dr. Jarvis-Staten Island-Fairy land- The little church-Voice from the garden-Devout con- gregation--Happy meeting-A cold lunch-Groat West- '    ern-Haven  of rest ................................................ 190 CHAPTER XXX. Pastor's counsels-Early marriages-Romish tendencies- Perilous times-Active remedies-Pageant at St. Pat. rick's--Sharp rejoinders-Seminary commencement- Ordination-Little trunk-First sermon ..................... 196 2 2 t                    *    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED TO BB I CLSI     lTI,. CHAPTlf   L The boy preacher-Playing church-Paents' wish-Confer- enee-Caraters introduced-Fatkea determiaic--Ap- plicatio for advice. "WHERE is Edward? asked Mr. Mason, as he laid down the book which he had been reading aloud to his wife, and looked about for his little son. The mother said nothing, but pointing to a distant coner of the room, the question was answered at once. There the little faxen-haired, blue-eyed boy was seen, standing upon a chair, with a large silk apron hanging upon his neck. He was so intently engaged, that he did not notice that eyes of tender affietion were gazing on him. The secret of his solemnity and silence was soon explained. He was playing church. The chair was hs pulpit, the black silk apron his gown, and with a serious, earnest face he was looking around upon an imaginary congregtion. The hearts of tOi parerts were too full to speak.   16    THE BOY WHO WAS TAI D Not a word was said to disturb the youthful preacher; and when, at last, weary with his labors, he got down from the chair, and came to kiss his mother " good night," she blessed him in a silent prayer, and he went off, happy and contented, to his rest. Mr. Mason was the first to speak :-"A beautiful picture that, my dear, of innocence and love" ," "I have often wished," she said, "that Edward might become a clergyman, if God should spare him to us. Who knows but my earnest desires may yet be granted 7" "There can be no doubt," answered Mr. Mason, "that tastes and capacities for different trades and professions, are sometimes exhibited in early life: and it has always appeared to me that such intima. tions should not be disregarded." "Would you think it right or prudent," inter- rupted Mrs. Mason, who seemed much interested in the thought which her husband had expressed, "would you think it right or prudent, from the little incident, to-night, to take it for granted that Edward has la- tent qualities of mind and heart, which would fit him for usefulness in the ministry, and to begin, from his very infancy, to train him up with this sacred profession in view?" "That would be my own opinion," replied her husband, "but in a matter so serious, and which involves suck vasi esponsbilities; I should not like    TO BE A CLERGYMA.       1' to act unadvisedly. I must confess, however, it hag all long been my wish and ypayet, that our little boy might one day become a good and useful mini- ter of God." The parents having never exchanged a word upon the point before, were well pleased to find this agreement in opinion; and as the safest and wisest course, they determined to ask the advice of their friend and pastor, Mr. Palmer, who lived in the  neighboring town. While waiting for the settlement of this important matter, I shall take the opportunity of introduoing to the reader, in a more formal way, the persons with whom he has thus become partially aqtainted. Mr. Mason had once been a wholesale .merchant in New York, and having been very successful in -business he had retired, with an ample fortine, to a county seat which he owned, about a hundred miles from the city, on the banks of the Hudson. Having received an excellent education in youth,'he devoted his time to literary pursuits, nd 'to beauti- fyig the grounds and gardens which surrounded his M lion. ' . The usual deplorable effect of prosperity had not been wrought upon him, and he was still the same conisentioet, liberal nan that he was in earlier cdays, when his cire mfltat e wer hiuble and ooGn t o racted. 2*    TUB BOY WItO WAS TRAINED Mr. and Mrs. Mason had long been devoted merm beas of the church, showing the sincerity of their faith by blameless and useful lives. Several promising children had been snatched away by death, Two alone remained; the eldest; Lucy, a sprightly and engaging girl, twelve years of age was at boarding-school, a few miles from home; the other, the little boy of five years old, whomr we saw at the opening of the chapter busying himself in so unusual a way. The wide gap between the ages of the two served to remind the parents of losses which they had been alled to bear, losses which, by God's kind provi. dence, had all been turned to good. The nearest church was in a little village, at the distance of four or five miles, but the weather must have been inclement indeed, which could keep these devoted Christians from the public worship of God. The day after the conversation took place which I have just recorded, Mr. Mason rode to town, in. tending to call upon the rector, and ask his advice in- regard to the question of interest which so small a circumstance had excited. He was disappointed to find that Mr. Palmer had been suddenly called from home by the illness of a brother who lived in the interior of the state, and as the disease of the suf. ferer was deceitful and lingering, the time of his return was doubtful. Indeed, the good clergyman  !O BE A OLM  OMAN .     19. being uncertain how long he might be detained, had persuaded a clerical friend who happened to be dis- engaged, to come and look after the parish during his absence. At first, Mr. Mason determined to wait patiently until he could converse with his pastor upon the subject which so often occupied his thoughts, but afterwards, becoming restless with the delay, he concluded to write. The result of this correspondence I must reserve for the next chapter.   20X    TME sOT WHO WAS b--i CHAPTER II. Two Wke st m nie-Beetors letter--No ntarSetp ream r Sith birthday--Broaching an important subject-A Jitl bofs dsrmn. More than two weeks passed away, and still no letter from Mr. Palmer. At last his answer came. The state of his brother's health, and other uns. voidable hindrances, had occasioned this delay.- I cannot do better than transcribe that part of his epistle which relates to the subject of our story: "It may seem a trifling coincidence to notice, y dear friend, in connection with a matter so iletn, but I could not help calling to mind a similar -ini dent in:the life of good Bishop White,* whe you spoke of Little Edward's appearance in the pulpit. I do not think that parents need wait for any Ceci- ded preference to be manifested by their sons, before beginning to mould their minds with reference to their future career. Why should not Christian mo. thers dedicate them to the Lord, as HRnsah did, and train them up from infancy with direct refer. Dr. Wilson's Life of Bishop White, p. 2L Henshaw'aMe- moir of Bishop Moore, p. 16.   To :r A CItRYMAIN.       21 ence to the ministry? I would have no cant nor hypocrisy about it. Let the boy be taught, little by little, the great dignity and responsibility of the office to which his thoughts are turned, Let him be carefully instructed in all things calculated to improve his mind and heart, and trust to God to work with you in all these efforts to promote his glory. "I wonder that more parents do not think of edu- cating their sons with a view to the ministry. It is a most laborious and responsible office, to be sure, and one but poorly requited in this world. But then they should think of the reward of the faithful clergyman in the next: 'They that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever.' Daniel xii. 8. 'Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins.' James v. 20. ". There are very few parents who would not be proud to see their son sent as an ambassador to a foreign court. Yet what is such a distinction oom- pared with the privilege of being an ambassador for God? I would urge you, therefore, by all means, my dear friend, to persevere in the work which God has put into your hearts." Mr. and Mrs. Mason read this letter with much   22    TH ioift *Wt6 A  ASIftCAirBD stifacn, ind   longde hesitated as to what come they ought to pursue.    - t most wan by teaderS beforehaud, thIt I hv no amrels to elate. If they Oish to regale tBh selves with the piots and precocious teniar- ofr children ho pais for prodigies in the worrd;,'t- must seek for isch excitement elsewhere. Thie Hl& boy whose history it is my privilege to relatw brought up in the old-fashioned, quiet, unobtrugflre ways which are pointed out in the Scriptures, and followed by the church. Edward was made '"* member of Christ and a child of God" in early infancy by baptism, and taught from the beginnitg, that he was a Christian child, and must try to ait accordiigly.               if.- Neither shall I be guilty of the partiality idt unfairness of concealing his faults. This wouldfe the surest way to defeat the main purpose whoet have in view-to encourage parents to train up their sons for the ministry, and to convince the young that such a thing is reasonable and right. Edwaid had been taught to kneel down andsgay his papyers, night and morning, long before- he- could understand the nature or the need of prayer. The forms and ceremonies of religion became a part of his daily life. lHe looked upon them as a thing of course-something which no person, who wisl to be good, would venture to neglect.   f?i b A OL'Cl 'TMA  '  4 . v It rI  not until his ixth birt-dqy, tat any direct reference was made, in conmersation with him, tqthe conrse which his parents inended hi to pupeS . Luoy had come home from school to. hare in the little festivities with which thene annivers- ries ore commonly observed. Mr. Palmer- had died with them. After his departure, something wa said as to his influence with his people, and their affection for him, when Lucy, in her simpli. city, asked: "Mother, why cn't Edward be a minister, whei. he is a man? Mr. Palmer will be getting old then, and brother could help him." "So he might, my child," said Mrs. Mason, "and I should greatly rejoice to see the day when my boy could be thus employed. How would you like it, Edwiard 7" The-little fellow's face brightened up as he an- swereds ", mother, that is what I have been thinking about. Then, you know, I could carry nic things to sick people, and read out of the Prayer Book for them. And, mother, don't you think I might sing one of my pretty hymns? You remember that aunt Mary liked to hear singing, when she was ill so long." Thus the little group conversed-branching off into all directions as occasional remarks suggested now topics to their minds.   T4   T 'stO  AWHO WAS TAINED Tea-tlme came-family prayers were said. At nine o'dlock the children retired to rest. Edward dreaiing of his little church, and his poor parish- ioners, and the many good things he would do when he became a man. ?W *       ^ -   TO BEA, CLUEBGMAN.        2b CHAPTERE Hl. / Sister's departure--Good bye-Robinson Crusoe-Truant boys -No church-going bell-Launch upon the mill-pond-Dark close to a bright day. THEai are many ups and downs in life. Some- times the way is smooth and plain-sometimes rough and intricate. Sometimes we have strength to resist temptations-sometimes we grievously fall. The morning after the birth-day scene, Lucy was sent back to school. Edward stood upon the stile, with swimming eyes, watching the carriage as long ase it remained in sight. His mother knowing that he would be more lonely than usual that day, offered to read to him a pretty story after his lessons were done. So when the long line of spelling had been said without a mistake, and a row of quite respectable figures were made upon the slate, she gave him his choice what book she should read. He asked to hear more about his favorite, Robinson Ctusoe, and his man Friday. Mrs. Mason kept his little eyes on the. stretch for about half an hour with some of the 3   u    .Lam jIAx wUniv WAD 'wJtAlZJi iV stirring incidents in this redoubtable history, and then laid down the book. "Please, mother," said Edward, " don't stop yeli I am not at all tired."  "I think, my son," answered Mrs Mason, "that you have heard enough for to-day. It is not well e have too much of a good thing at once. We shotld show some moderation in our enjoyments." "When you read that part, mother, about Robin. son!- snug home in the cave, I thought," said Edward, " that I should like to live on an island, and have a parrot and a canoe, and make all those things that he did."  " That is the way that little boys are apt to talk," observed his mother, smiling, "and sotne foolish ones have got themselves into trouble !by' it  I heard of five or six boys, not many years ago, who had their heads so full of this story,' thi they ran away from school, and went to an isletd somewhere in the Sound, and there played Robinson Crusoe to their hearts' content. For the first day it did very well. They had some crackers in their pockets, and by the help of blackberries and walnuts were able to forget that they had lost their usual dinner and supper. But at night it began to thun- der and rain, and there was no shelter to go to. They knew they had done very wrong, and felt too unhappy to say their prayers. Perhaps they thought   I  that God would not hear such bad boys. The next morning, wet, and cold, and hungry, they set out, in good earnest, to find their homes, and relieve the minds of their distracted parents." ;  O, mother," cried Edward,' I will not talk of beiog like. Robinson Crusoe any more. How could they run off and leave their mothers in that way?" "Can you think of no other reason, my son," continued Mrs. Mason, "why it would not be wise to go, and live on an island by yourself? Would you lose nothing besides the care and attention of your parents?" "To be sure, mother, a great deal more," said Edward, in a serious tone; "I could not go to church. Poor RobinsonI had nobody to preach to him, and ell him what he ought to do." Mrs.. Mason got up and took a book from the 'elf, saying as she opened it, "This remark reminds me of some beautiful lines written by Mr. Cowper. He supposed them to be spoken by Alexander Sel- kirk, who, you remember, was the real Robinson Crusoe: "' Society, friendship, and love, Divinely bestowed upon ihan, Oh, had I the wings of a dove, How soon I would taste you again! "(My sorrows I then might assuage In the ways of religion and truth;   Might learn from the wisdom of age, And be cheered by the sallies of youth.   28     THE BOY WAO WAS TRAINED "' Religion! what treasures untold  Reside in that heavenly word!  More precious than silver or gold, Or all that this earth can afford.  "'But the sound of the church-going bell These valleys and rocks never heard-- Ne'er sighed at the sound of a knell,  Or smiled when a Sabbath appear'd/."  When dinner was over Edward reminded his mo- ther of a promise she had made, that he might go down to the mill-pond, on some pleasant afternoon, and sail his ship. Thomas the gardener, who was a kind-hearted, obliging man, and withal quite inge. gious, had cut a small vessel out of wood, and presented it to the little boy upon his birth-day. As Mr. Mason was too busy to go with him, a,; Mrs. Mason had been suffering with a headahe, Sally, the nursery maid, was intrusted with the care of young master, upon the very important occasinQ of launching the "Lady of the Lake," as Lucy hia insisted the ship should be called. When they reached the pond, a long string was fastened to it, and Edward manifested great delight at seeing his little schooner sail briskly along the shore. Pretty soon Tom Hall the miller's boy, spied them out, and came down to see what they were about.                    - F He expressed much gratification at the fine ap   TO BE A OLEROYMAN.       29 pearane' of the ship, and at last persuaded Edward /to let him take a turn in sailing her. Theowner, proud of his possession, very generously copsented. Tom soon grew tired of the tame -sport of pulling the ship by the line, and in one of his misehievous moods out it loose, and the "Lady ot the Lake" steered her course forthwith towards the middle of the pond. Edward was very agry, as might well be sup- posed; and when the ragged miller boy shouted and jumped about with delight, the little fellow raised- his puny hand to strike, and called Tom a fool, and various other naughty names which I should not like to repeat. In the midst of this mimic tempest, Mr. Mason appeared riding along the road. At the ouind of Edward's voice he stopped, and looked about in amazement. By this time Tom, thinking that his practical joke had gone far enough, very composedly rolled up his trowsers above his knees, - (id" partly by wading in the pond and partly by drawling along the trunk of an old tree, which had obligingly fallen in the right direction, succeeded in reaching the little ship, which he brought safe to land. Mr. Mason took up Edward behind him on the horse; and telling Sally to carry the harmless toy Which had occasioned so much difficulty, the little party returned to the house.  Not a word was   spoken on the way. The commander of the vessel, however, was very much ashamed of his part in the performance. Mr. Mason felt that whatever provocation Edward might have had, it was wrong for him to give way to his passions, and therefore ordered him to be sent supperless to bed. I  r               t 4E t    CHAPTER  IV. Faults reproved-Little garden-Hammers and saws--Lesoni in botany-Progress in knowledge-Friday dinner-Fasting. WHEN Edward had recited his lessons on the following morning, Mr. Mason called him into the library, and said, "My son, I was sorely grieved to hear you use such language yesterday, and to find you so completely carried away by your tem- per." Edward made no answer, but hung down his head with shame. "If it had been some poor, ignorant child, with no father nor mother to instruct him," continued Mr. Mason, "I should have thought nothing of it. Such conduct is one of the natural fruits of our corrupt and sinful hearts. But you, Edward, are a child of God, and a member of his holy church. Instead therefore of setting such a bad example to Tom, who has never enjoyed your privilegesi you ought to have kept down your anger, as much as possible, and not used those unbecoming and sinful words." Fed             $fH2 TH    BOt WHO WAS j T INED Edward could stand it no longer, but buryt into tears, begged his father's pardon.  Mr. Mason said, with a sad and serious tojne "There is a Father in heaven, my dear boy, whbm you have offended much more than you have re Go to your room, and ask his forgiveness on y bended knees."  No other circumstance worthy of record happened for some time. Edward had a little plot of ground in a corner of the garden, which he was allowed to call his own; and here he took great pleasure in digging, and planting, and weeding, when not otherwise employed. Besides this source of amuse- ment, Thomas had fitted him  up a work-bench, in the wood-house, where, in wet or cold weather. he could occupy himself with a little set of car- penter's tools, which his uncle had sent him frr. New York. His parents encouraged him in these bodily. exer- cises as conducive to health, and as a harmless way of passing off his leisure hours. They thought it unwise to keep him confined very long at his bpokLc Without strength and vigor of body they knew that the faculties of the mind could never be pro. perly developed. But although Edward's time for study each day was short, great pains were taken, upon all proper occasions, to give him oral instruction about many   TO BE A OLERGYMAN.      3 things which would be useful to him in after life. Thus, his mother seldom walked out. in summer, without directing his attention to the trees and plants which came in their way; and Mrs. Mason ing only answered with patience, but pleasure, the miny curious questions which the little boy would ask, while turning over the pictures in Goldsmith's A  tiwted Nature, and other books of the sort. At the same time, while religious matters were iever dragged in abruptly, Edward was trained up day by day in the way he should go, with respect to his duty both to God and man. He could repeat the Catechism from beginning to end, and understood much more of it than we might suppose. This was not accomplished all at onxee, but little by little. His parents remembered aanil obeyed God's direction to His people of old: "Thou shalt teach my words diligently unto thy chfldren, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in-thy house, and when thou'walkest by the way, arid when thou liest down, and when thou risest up." Deut. vi 7. They thought him too young to read the Bible to advantage; and therefore, instead of placing this blessed book in his hands, at an age when its most precious teachings might have proved irksome and unprofitable, they endeavoured to make him ac qilainted with the general outlines of sacred history,   THE ?OY, WQO WAS TAJIu BJu and the prinoipal oharaoters embraoed therein, e-.m foroing its pratical teachings as occasions offered t:emselyes.      .         - Edward's mother, however, often selected int eating incidents from our Saviour's life, and ther parts which the little boy could readily uadez tq -and thus he was taught to realize, from the irt, that the Scriptures were indeed God's holy wiad given us in mercy to guide us in the way of trgti; and that to treat the book with irreverence, iould be a sin. One day when the dinner-bell rang, Edward ran in from the garden where he had been hard at work, bringing with him an appetite somewhat sharpened by his labor in the open air. Looking rathef dis- appointed as he surveyed the neatly arranged tabeA, he said in a tone which it ill became a little t boyto use-"Mother, I am so hungry; I do wish we ad some meat." His father was evidently displeased, and answered, "If you are not satisfied with your dinner, Edward, you need not eat it." "I didnot mean to offend you, father," Edward quickly said; "but it always happens when I am most hungry, there is least to eat." "Do you know no reason, my son," asked Mrs. Mason, "why we should deny ourselves some things that we like, on this day of the week more than another?"  Edward refece for a moment, but could not think what his. moter '  *        i .'f.1-i   tO B  'A CLf4iRt&A. *     X inant. She then went on to explain t him, that as' riday was the day of our Saviour's cruciFiio, it had always been observed by Christian people as * '4Ancd What good does it do, mother," he inquired, if'ii some6 earnestness, "to go without eating, when  w'ifel like it?p" "A great deal, Edward," bhe Gtilf answered. "Even if we could see no reason' felit, the fact that God commands us to fasty =d that' prophets and apostles, and even our blessed Saviour fasted, shows that there must be some good ground for the requirement. But those who fast in the right way, and from proper motives, derive much actual benefit from it. The body is thus kept under, and the soul made more free. We feel in a fiter frame to pray. We are made sensible of our weak. nes.:  We learn to deny ourselves, and to yield implicit obedience to God'." "o never thought of it before," interrupted Id- ird;  but is not this fasting on Friday a good way to remember about our Saviour's dying on the cross, and what day it was he suffered " "Cer. tainly,- 'my boy," his mother answered; "and now that you know what fasting is, and why this duty i obbse ed, I hope you will never make wry faces aga, bease the dinner does not quite suit your Mr. Mason had not spoken while the conversation   86     I    -O r wuI WAD lAwnw Wis going on, but here he took occasion to say: lIt may be well enough to explain to you, Edward why we eat no meat on Fridays, as that was what fist brought up the subject just now. There is no eo- *iand to that effect in the Bible; neither is there aiy virtue in merely giving up this particular artidle of diet. Some Christians deny themselves one thing, and some another. Meat, however, is that upon which most persons depend for strength and suste- nance. Take this away, and they will feel it more than if they gave up several other things. So then, in laying down a general rule, which should apply to the greatest number of individual oases, this is the very wisest which could be devised." Children are usually very observing, and Edward was evidently puzzled about something. After some hesitation he said: "Uncle Charles does not fast I think. We always had meat when we visited a his house." Mr. Mason was amused, and as he arose to leave the table, good-humoredly remarked: "I canno answer for it, whether your uncle fasts or not This, however, will not lessen our obligation to di so. But remember, Edward, fasting is not a thing to be boasted of, as though it made us meritorious in the sight of God. The whole design of it i beautifully expressed in the collect for the firs Sunday in Lent: ' O Lord, who for our sake did   fast forty days and forty nights, give us grace to use such abstinence, that our flesh being subdued to th, Spirit, we may ever obey thy godly motions in righteousness and true holiness, to thy honor and glory, who livest and reignest with the Father and the Roly Ghost, one God, world without end.'"   38,   . THE BOY- WIm WASTBINED CHAPTER V. Christmas-Illumination-Santa Claus-Lucy's story-Iseaiah'e vision- Evergreens - Scene at church -Message of glad tidings. CHRISTMAS was approaching, and our little friend was anxiously looking forward to it, not only forr the reasons which make children wish for this bles- sed festival to return, but because his sister was to have holiday for a week, and his aunt and two cousins were expected up from the city. The long wished-for day at last arrived. By Christmas-eve the whole family party had got together. It was customary on that night to illuminatfe the church in the town, and all were anxious to attend. The distance being almost too great for Edward to go and return at night, it was agreed that Mr. Mason should take his sister and Lucy in the sleigh, while his wife remained at home with the boys. Frank and Henry Parish were both older than Edward; but I am sorry to say, they had not been so well brought up, and were somewhat ungovern- able and rude. They were highly indignant that two young gentlemen of eight and ten years of age, who were big enough to wear boots, should   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.       80 hot be allowed to take a ride with their elders.. At last, by way of compromise, Mrs. Parish begged that Frank might be allowed to go; and as the sleigh could not possibly hold more, Henry and Edward must content themselves at home. 'Mrs. Mason did her best to entertain them, and succeeded very well. She read some pleasant ex- tracts from Irving's Sketch-book and Bracebridge Hall, about Christmas times in England, and that pretty piece by good Dr. Clement More, ' The Visit of St. Nicholas." The effect of this last was most potent. I believe both of the young gentlemen realized in their dreams the. graphic description of the poet, and that "Visions of sugar-plums danced in their heads." Edward was anxious to sit up until the party re- turned, that he might hear Lucy's account of what they had seen. Bed-time however came, and at Mrs. Mason's suggestion they both retired, and carefully arranged their stockings on a chair for the convenience of Santa Claus. I shall not attempt to describe the jry which per- vaded the house on the morning of Christmas. Suf- fice it to say, Kriskringle was extremely liberal of his favors, and had forgotten nobody. Breakfast was hardly over, before Edward en- treated his sister to tell them about the illumination.   / 40    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED Those of the family who had not been able to see for themselves, joined in the request, and she ac- cordingly began: "The church was crowded to overflowing when we got there. Some gentlemen very kindly gave their seats to Aunt Emma and myself; but father and Frank had to stand in the aisle. O, the church was dressed so beautifully! Great festoons of green hung along the walls; the chancel rail was entwined with wreaths, and just above the altar was a large cross, covered with ivy. And then the lights! Why mother, in every pane of glass there was a candle in full blaze, and the whole church was as light as day. When the bell stopped tolling, Mr. Palmer came out of the vestry-room, and began the service. Lizzy Scott had whispered to me just before, that Mr. Adams, who sometimes visits his relatives here, would preach, and I wondered where he was. But soon I forgot all about it. When they sang the Gloria in Excelsis, I could almost imagine that the angels had come back again, to herald the Saviour's birth. And then the chapter which Mr. Palmer read from the Old Testament was so appropriate; I wish I could remember it." "There will be no trouble in finding it, my dear," said Mrs. Mason. '"The Prayer-book directs the clergyman what lessons to read, and the same are used everywhere."   To BE A OLERGYMAN.       41 She then told Edward to bring her a Bible and Prayer-book from the stand; and turning to the table of lessons for the evening of December twenty. - fourth, found that the chapter referred to was the -sixtieth of Isaiah. The little boy read the verses :saloud, which his mother pointed out: :"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For, behold, -the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross dark. ness the people; but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising." "Stop a moment, Edward," said Mrs. Mason; "I wish to remind you that this chapter has been read in the church for hundreds of years; and in this country especially, where our people were few and despised, on many a Christmas-eVe how cheering it must have been to listen to such promises as 'these." She then pointed to the 13th verse, and Edward read: 'The glory of Lebanon shall come unto thee, the fir tree, the pine tree, and the box together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious." "'Why, mother," exclaimed Lucy, as though some- thing very important had occurred to her, "I did not notice it last night; but it seems plain enough 4* ,.   THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED from this, that it is right to dress the church with  evergreens, although some people ridicule the prac- tice. Her mother gave an approving smile, and them little reader continued: ' The sons also of thgm that afflicted thee shall- come bending unto theeand all they that despised thee shall bow themselve l nwn at the. soles of thy feet; and they shall call the, the city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel." "This promise," remarked Mrs. Mason, "has  been most wonderfully accomplished in the history of the church in America. Its most devoted mem- bers are the children of those who, but a few years - ago, hated and persecuted her. But we have almost forgotten Lucy's story, which has suffered a sad interruption. Go on, my daughter, and let us hear' the rest of it." " I was just getting to a strange part," said Lucy, resuming the thread of her narrative. "'You re- member I told you that Mr. Adams was expected to preach. Well, just as they were singing the Psalm before sermon, the door opened, and who should come in but Mr. Adams with his gown on. The people looked a little surprised; but he whispered a few words to Mr. Palmer, as he passed the reading. desk, and went up into the pulpit. When the organ X stopped. he arose and gave out his text: ' Behold, I   TO BE A OLEGYMAN.       48 bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to allpeople. For unto you is born this day, in tlie city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.' It seemed as if he had come on purpose to tell us this joyful news.. Every body listened with the greatest attention. You could hear a pin drop. As soon as the sermon was finished, Mr. Adams de. scended from the pulpit, and went out as he came. Somebody told father afterwards, that he had been delayed by an accident on the road, and that in order to be at his own church the next day, he was obliged to return the same night. But even his sudden departure did not have a bad effect. You might readily suppose that the messenger was going in baste to carry the tidings elsewhere." "Did the people all follow him?" asked Harry, who had been listening with great attention. "Oh no!" said Lucy: "i Mr. Palmer gave out the old hymn- "'While shepherds watched their flocks by night, , All seated on the ground'- and the whole congregation joined in the tune of Bethlehem, which seems to have been made on pur- pose for the words." "What a pleasant time," remarked Edward, who was always fond of going to church; -how I would like to have been there."  "    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED "You may still enjoy the Christmas services to- day, my son," said Mrs. Mason, "and it will 0oon be time to set out for church." "Before we go, mother," said Lucy, "please show me those pretty lines about Christmas 'ever- greens, which you repeated to me oncIe." "I suppose you refer to Mr. Croswell's gem, my dear."  So saying, she turned to the place, and read- "The thickly woven bows they wreath Through every hallowed fane; A soft reviving odour breathe Of summer's gentle reign: And rich the ray of mild green light, Which like an emerald's glow, Comes struggling through the latticed height, Upon the crowd below.' " l   TO BE A  LSERGYMAN.      45 CHAPTER   VI. S unow fortress-Napoleon-Siege and capture-The first oath- Bitter tears-Confession-A clergyman must be a soldier- Sudden alarm. I FEAR that the bright scenes of the last chapter will be obscured, at least in part, by some dark spots in this. The reader will please, however, to bear in mind, that I am not giving the history of an angelic being, but of a weak and erring child. On the night of Christmas a deep snow fell, which the next morning's sun began to melt. The exten- sive lawn in front of the house afforded a most convenient place for one of the favorite amusements of boys, viz., that of rolling snow-balls. Edward and his cousins could not resist the temptation, and accordingly were soon actively engaged. It happened that among the books which-Santa Claus had left, was a small volume containing the lives of various great men, and prominent in the list was the Emperor Napoleon. Frank, into whose rands the treasure had fallen first, had been reading it aloud. Among other incidents of Bonaparte's   P 46    TBb BOY WO0 -WAS TAUi iD school boy days, was one giving an account of a -f tification which the young heroes made; to defer and conquer which, two hostile parties waged furious war. Our three little friends were soo seiazed with a military fever, and the sight of th snow suggested the amusement in which they wer now engaged. The plan of a fort was marked out, rampart were quickly raised, and war was at once proposed It seemed hardly fair, however, that so unequall division of the forces should be made, as two agains one; and this' difficulty might have saved me tl trouble and mortification of recording what traot obliges me to state, had not our old acquaintance Tom Hall, gone whistling along the road. Edwao would-have objected, under other circumstances, t allow such an unruly soldier to enlist; but in orde that the play might not fall through, there seew no other course bat to forget the past. Frank fan Edward accordingly took possession of the fort,  Henry and Tom began, the assault. Both partie fought manfully. The excitement became intense The besiegers boldly scaled the walls. The contes was now hand to hand. Each party in turn seemec certain to prevail. I hinted once before, that Edward's cousins wer not good boys.  While in the presence of tihn uncle and Aunt, they were 'under comparative- .   TO BEt A C-LERYMAIU.-      47- striint. Butt now, forgetful of everything iof-the* sort;,and- carried away by the interest; of-*the -scenei they gave full-vent to profane, and wicked worde*. Tmt thus encouraged, did not fall behind. - Edwardi nmivndful. of what he said1 began, at firB, to' di s- play his valor too, by some of those smaller oaths' 1hich defile the tongues of men. Hil companions' grew more -blasphemous than before, and- at last thbis fl child -of so many hopes and prayers, invoked with;: curses the -sacred name of God! He was shocked-: himself, as though stunned by a sudden blow  - He took no further interest in the play, and upon thet plea of weariness,i soon sought refuge in- the- house,: Edward's cousins were too much accustomed to use i bad words themselves, to notice it in others. The- little boy was so troubled that he could not rest .one.. tehit. BdOks and toys -were -resorted -to in vain., /The presence of his parents and sister only distressed him the more. He had a dreadful secret which he was afraid to keep, and which at the same time%, he t had not courage to reveal. His plte at dinner remained untouched. When asked- the reason, he . seemed confused, and gave no answer. Thus things wentson till the close of the day. But the darkness , afforded poor Edward no relief. - He knew that, he  had offended God, and his all-seeing eye seemed looking upon him in displeasure. As the evening Wore away, he could contain himself no longer; and    48    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED watching when his mother left the room, he quickly followed her. She had gone to the chamber where she often retired when she wished to be alone. He gave a little tap at the door, and his heart smote him, when her gentle voice said, ' Come in." The poor penitent waited for no questions to be aked, but, burying his head in his mother's lap, he sobbed aloud, and in halfochoked words, told her all the truth. Mrs. Mason was greatly shocked. For some minutes she could not speak. When both were somewhat composed, she spoke to him most seriously of-this grievous sin, repeated the third commandment, described the awful scene at Sinai, when that law was first proclaimed, showed the ingratitude of treat- ing profanely the name of the great and holy God, and then kneeled down side by side, while the mother offered up a short and fervent prayer for the pardon of her son. Edward now felt that a load had been taken from his mind. He remembered the gracious promise, "Whoso confesseth and forsaketh his sins shall have , mercy," Prov. xxviii. 13. Mrs. Mason thought it right that her husband should know what had happened, and accordingly, when they were alone that night, she told him all. Mr. Mason was of course distressed, that his son should have been led to commit so great an offence; but it was no slight consolation to think that hi1   TO BE A OL(RGYMAN,       49 conduct afterwards had shown a tender conscience, and a well-disposed and honest purpose of heart. The ruins of the fortification, as they glittered in the sun-light, were an eye-sore to the poor child; but no doubt, this very source of unhappiness did him good. It reminded him of his fall, and seemed to sleep under his natural self-conceit. Frank and Henry had no idea that anything out of the way had taken place, and amused themselves as usual. Edward by degrees recovered his cheer- fulness, and joined in their sports; but he had lost all interest in warlike affairs. He seemed even to have taken a dislike to the Life of Napoleon, which had afforded him so much pleasure before. When his father inquired whether he had finished the book, he frankly acknowledged why he had laid it down. As no one else was present at the time, Mr. Mason told him that such a course was quite unnecessary, that the book was not to blame, and that he would do well to read it through. "But, father," said Edward, with a solemnity of manner which seemed strange in one so young, ",you know I hope to be a clergyman. Will it do me good to read such books?"  "'A proper selection of them, my son," replied his father, "will be of decided advantage. Every intelligent person must of necessity be acquainted with the history of the world, and the great ones 5    * 60  XTH BOY WHO WASB TAINED who have figured on the theatre of life. Besides, can you think of no way in which the biographies of military heroes can be beneficial, even to a clergy- man?" "YeS, father,'; said Edward; 'he can learn to be wide awake, and brave, and not to be easily discour- aged, and to make the best of difficulties and trou- bles." "Very true," remarked Mr. Mason; "and although the details of war and bloodshed must be painful to us, we should rememNbr that every Christian who Is baptized,enlists as a soldier of Christ, and engages in a warfare.- Our ministers are the duly conmiis. sioned officers, who lead on the hosts of God. They must possess the courage and constancy of heroel, f they would do good service in his cause. One reaion why the church -nmies such little progress in ,iay places, is because the clergy do not regard the subject in this way. God's kingdom is to go o onnqueig and to conquer. The whole world must yield to the Prince of peace?' Edward was about to ask his father a questi4n, when the most piteous screams and cries were hrd in the direction of the stables, behind the house, aid Mr. Mason ran out in great alarm, followed by his son.   TO BE A OCV  YKMAN.     61 -::.:.     CHAiPT'IE  VIL t    Picking up-Fox hunt in anticipationl-The weak mother- iWh ise determination-New Latin grammar-Bill of science. THU cause of the disturbance was soon explained. Henry was lying at full length upon the ground, with a deep cut across his forehead, and bruises not a few, while his brother stood by wringing his bands in terror. Thomas came running from the garden, and several female servants from the house. Fortu- pately, Mrs. Parish had gone to town that morning, or she would have been thrown into hysterics by the :, Mr. Mason promptly bound his handkerchief about Henry's head, and by the aid of Thomas, carried him to the house. The wound was by no meansdangerous; and hav. jig applied such simple remedies as the case required, the oung gentleman was told to remain quietly in his bed for the remainder of the day. The safety of his patient being thus cared for, Mr. Mason began to inquire into the cause of the accident. It turned out that the mischievous Tom Hall was   at:the bottom of the whole affair. Mr. Mason kept; several horses, and among them, a quiet pony, which; the children were all allowed to ride. While Edward and his father had been engaged in the house, Tom- had appeared again, and fnding Frank and Henry, swinging on the gate, persuaded them to go to the stable and look at the horses. The three congenial spirits had soon hatched up a fine scheme for a fox. hunt.  Tom, who was a year or two older than the rest, accordingly put a bridle upon the pony, and one on the carriage horse, upon which he had sometimes- stolen a ride, when the creature happened to be feed. ing in a pasture at a distance from the house. Every. thing was soon arranged. Frank mounted the pmoy,: and Henry got up behind the miller's boy upon ttlj horse. The double weight by ni' means pleased thei spirited creature, which began to plunge and kick, making every effort to shake off this unaccustomed load.  Tom easily kept his seat, and really enjoyed the sport, but poor Henry was too much frightened to, know what to do, and was soon left prostrate upon the ground, in the way before described. The sight of the mischief he had done, put Tom to flight, and leaving the wounded boy to get on as best he mighty, he slunk off home.  When Mrs. Parish returned, the matter was brokenm .  i... .....   TU' H A IUJLtUI3UXMA.     UO toh er in a&manner not to cause alarm; and after she ihd given way to her feelings, s weak mothers are apt todo, Mr. Mason took occasion to tell her plainly what he thought of the ruinous course she had hith. erto pursued, in the management of-her sons. She begged her brother to remember the difficulty otkeeping them under restraint in a lage city, the many tempttions to disobedience, the easy dispbsi- tion of her hisband; urging these, and other excuses, as apologies for their conduct.  -Mr. Mason was by no means satisfied. He insisted that children could be brought up properly anywhere, if; parents tried sincerely and consientiously to dis- charge their duty. He also, with brotherly affection and tenderness, portrayed the evils she was bringing upon lerself by suffering her children to have the upper hand.  ,-Mrs. Parish, with all her failings, was a good woman, and a most devoted parent, and she felt the truth of this. They talked over various plans, by, which the evil, which had already spread so-far, might now -be cheeked. Mr. Mason advised that Frank should be placed at a school, which he named, kept by a clergyman near New York. "As for Henry," he continued, "if you will leave him with me for a few. months, we will see what can be done for him. When Edward' is eight years old,' (his birth-day is close at hand,) I intend to. set him' at 5*O   54    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED the Latin Grammar; and as Henrys education has been much neglected, they can start together." The mother was distressed at first, at the thought of parting with her sons, but her brother's algument were so-onvincing, that no reasonable objection eould be raised. The only difficulty in the way was to obtain her husband's consent; and she wrote a letter that very day, explaining the plan proposed. The next week brought an answer from Mr. Parish, acquiescing in this arrangement, and as his wife had finished her visit, and Henry had entirely recovered, Frank anl his mother set- out for home. Mr. Mason had counted the cost before making the proposal he did. There would be advantages as well as disadvantages to Edward, in having a com- panion in his studies and amusements. Although Henry had fallen into many bad habits, -and was unaccustomed to be controlled, he was naturally a kind-hearted and affectionate child; and his uncle had great hopes that he might be made a useful man.                     a The Monday after the visitors had left, the new arrangement for study began. The boys were to sit in the library where Mr. Mason spent much of his time, and devote an hour to their lessons. At ten o'clock he was to call upon them to recite. If the lessons were well said, they were to be allowed to play till dinner in the garden or work-shop, as the   O BR A CLBGYMAN.        65 weather might chance to be.  In the afternoons they were to walk or ride, and at night read for an hour or so in some entertaining book; and from that till bed time play at harmless games. Mr. Mason bought a new Latin Grammar for each of the boys, and they both seemed not a little pleased. twas getting along on a grand scale, to be studying the classics. Hitherto their lessons had been of the simplest sort; and Mr. Mason knew that grammar would at first be very dry. It is necessary, however, for all who wish to become scholars, to lay the foundation well. Every hour spent in the rudiments is saving weeks of labor and vexation afterwards. Besides, although little boys may have no particular relish for grammar, it is much easier to master its rules while young, and then their way is made smooth for translating whatever books it is required of them to read. And now having set our students vigorously to work, I shall bring my chapter to a close.   RwI   dasb4-W WIW4  Y n ow COA rxui VIII Youg student&-Lost time-Blundering recitation--irec-. Amtuementi-The rabbit-Tesatable talk-Anwrers to pray -Drawing lesson. As Edward had before been accustomed to regu- lar habits of study, (although the time thus actully employed was very short,) he of course felt the re. straint to be less irksome than his cousin. Mr. Mason sat at the table very busily writing, and only now and then raised his eyes to look at him pupils. Once he gave Henry a gentle hint about gaing out of the window. Then he had to cautio* him not to cut the desk with his knife, which seemed open for the purpose. At last, seeing him quite busy with a pencil, scribbling upon the fly-leaves of his grammar, Mr. Mason spoke somewhat sternly, and desired him to improve his time. When thelittle clock on the mantel-piece struck ten, the young students were called upon to recite. Edward did very well; but it was plain enough from Henry's blunders, that the nature of nouns and adjectives presented few charms for him.   Wu J& A. UiJbA IA  JIA .  - v  As Mr. Mason held the grammar in his hand, listening With more patience than might be expected, to this lame attempt at recitation, he accidentally glanced at the pencil marks upon the blank leaves at . the end. He could scarcely suppress a smile, when he saw a caricature of himself sitting in his arm- chair, and the two students in attitudes of great ap- parent suffering, endeavoring to convey the -contents of the books to their braies. He made no remark upon the drawing; and as it was the first lesson, he suffered the mistakes to pass pretty easily. After dinner the boys were allowed to go to town with Thomas, in the "Democrat," as the little farm wagon was called. Both came home at supper-time quite full of a circus which was to be along in a few diys. They had seen the flaring yellow hand-bills, with flying horses, and dancing men and women, posted up at every corner of the streets. Edward had never been at such an exhibition, and supposing that his cousin's description of those he had attended to be quite correct, he was very urgent with his father to let him go. Mr. Mason said "No P" most positively. Henry expressed surprise; and his uncle then told him that he was willing that they should have all  reasonable amusements, such as attending shows of wild beasts, concerts, &c.; but as for circuses, they   gi8    I8THE rB-YWo MWA8 IM;BNED were too low andidebasing to be patronized by deosnt people  Mr. Mason was so decided in his mssner,.that nothing more was said. But when the boys wertiby themselves, Henry's indignation boiled over. *^,1I wonder what uncle will think wrong next " fho sked, in high displeasure. "A pretty thing&i. deed, when we can't go to a circusl"  ' I ami sure my fatheralways does right," an. swered Edward, sharply. "He never denies usany pleasure which it is proper for us to enjoy." "It is well enough for you parsons to be whihing about wickedness, and propriety, and all that," said Henry, whose ill temper bad got a decided advantage over his usual good nature. "I won't stay here:ito mope and pine away, I can asnre you." - D  There is no telling what more he might have added, had not Thomas shouted to them frombhe lower part of the garden, where he was propping up some bushes over-burdened with snow, " Come herte quick  I have caught a rabbit, which may be you would like to see before I let him go!". The boys both ran at once to claim the prize. After much oaxing Thomas gave it to Edward, wha shut it up in a cage, which at different periods had been the receptacle for divers kinds of beasts 'nd birds. The timid creature bid itself, at first, in the strw, which had been placed in the corner for a bedl ' '  '  ,  -  * ' ' -;^X    TO Q BE ;A tIOtYMAi.      609 bntiby degrees it gained more;onfidenee, and ate greedily the leaves of lettuce and cabbage which the boys gave it; At supper, the rabbit engaged the whole thoughts of our young friends, and would have formed the only topic of conversation, if they had consulted -thei own. pleasure. Rules of politeness were ,too strictly observed at Mr. Mason's table, to allow. chil- dren to .disturb their betters by their talk, or to appear pert and forward. Edward's mother, how- ever, introduced the subject briefly, and the oppor. tunity being thus afforded, the little boys, with great earnestness, begged permission to have a rabbit. *arren. Mr. Mason laughed at the idea, and told them they had no conception how much trouble it would give them. They both insisted that they did not mind this. Mr. Mason, after some reflection, agred that if the lessons were recited well the next day, he would go out with them, and choose a' iproper-spot for the warren, and that Thomas should help-them with the fence, and other necessary fix. tures, when. the weather moderated.  But you have forgotten one thing, Edward," said his -father; "where will'the rabbits come from? It will not an. swer to shut up this poor thing- by itself;- and it may be many a year before Thomas catches another." :-"O uncle!" exclaimed Henry, " we have thought of all this. A man in town has got rabbits to sell, and we are going to buy a pair of him."   60    THeT BOY WtO WAS TRA1dtD Very well," aid Mr. Mason; I am the more- willing to grant your request, beeause it may prove the source of some harmless enjoyment, and becase I felt obliged to disappoint you about the circus this morning. Edward seemed to wish to speak, but he hesitated. "What is it?" asked his father; A"I see you have got something in your head." 'I was thinking, father," said the little boy, "of what Mr. Palmer told us in his sermon the other day about prayer. He remarked that God always answers our petitions in some way, if we really ask in faith. Like a kind parent, He does not al. ways give the very thing the child asks for, but that which is most certain to promote its good. Your kindness to us just now, father, made me remember this." By this time the tea things had been removed, and Mrs. Mason told Sally to bring her a roll of paper and some lead pencils which were lying on her dressing table. She then called the boys to her, and making them take their seat, gave each a pencil, and placed before them simple outline sketches from the drawing book to copy. Mr. Mason had told his wife of the taste for this art which Henry had shown on the leaves of the Latin grammar; and this little circumstance sug- gested a very pleasant and profitable way of passing   TO BE A CLEROYMARP      81 off some of their leisure hours. They both seemed much gratified, and bed-time came while Edward was busy in finishing a well-curb, after the pattern in the drawing book; and Henry, in arranging the festoons of ivy about the tower of an old Gothic church. Their attempts were of course defective, but they bore a decided resemblance to the originals. 6.   6 THBO.; WRO WAS TBAIWD CHAPTElt IX.  Rabbit warren-Ride to church-John Wesley-Sunday yes nings-Bishop Hobart-Missions among the heathen-Bible and prayer book-Who will be saved? No possible fault could be found with the lessons the next day. The first declension of nouns was completely mastered. Mr. Mason was pleased with this marked improvement, and taking his hat, he told the boys to go with him, and select a spot for the rabbit warren, about which they had dreane the night before.  :- "We must have it a safe distance from the gar. den," said he, as they went out of the gate. "XBa- bits would prove very troublesome if they got loose Ifrom their pen; so we must keep this fact in view., I A few rods west of the house was a fine meadow, undulating in its surface, with clumps of grand old trees, growing here and there. Mr. Mason made choice of a little hillock, as affording a dry place for the rabbit house, and because it was partly in the shade. The weather being too cold to begin such work for some weeks to come, the boys had to con-   TO BE A  LERIGYMAt.      68 tent themselves with staking off the ground, and helping Thomas to cut the pickets for the fence. The next day being Sunday, the whole family set off for church. The air was clear and bracing, and they had much pleasant conversation as they rode along. When within about a mile of the town the bellwas distinctly heard. "Uncle," inquired Henry, " why do you never go to any other church than ours?" "What other could I, go to?" asked Mr. Mason, in surprise. "Why," said Henry, with a very knowing look, as though he had found his uncle in a mistake for pnce, "why there is the Methodist'--and he was going on with a long string of names, expressive of 3bei different shapes and shades in which the views of the so-called Christian world are bodied forth, when 'Is uncle interruptse him 'SNot so fast, my boy. The Bible speaks of one ;OLY, UNIVReSAt CHURCH,* which God   as estab- elised upon earth, and instead of saying that people are to join this society or that, as suits their notions best, we are told in simple words, that 'The Lord adds to the CHUnaH such as shall be saved.' Acts ". 47."  Are none of these denominations churches, then?" asked Henry, puzzled by this remark. Canticles vi. 9. St. John x. 16. 1 Cor. xl. 13. Ephes. v. 25-7. St. Matt. xxviii. 19, 20. Romans x. 18. Isa. ii. 2.   ] TiS. lUX WIIV WAIs :AArIN A "There is a popular sense," answered Mr. MaIso, in which they may be called churches. They are religious societies, founded by good men, with hon- est intentions of honoring God; and doing service to their fellow creatures. If you choose to consider this as the definition of a church, then they aie churches. "Strictly speaking, however, the church is 'the kingdom of God,' built upon the foundation of Apostles and Prophets. Somebody has beautifully described it, as a temple of God visible on earth, but hiding its head in heaven, and outstretched to en- compass all nations, with Christ's atonement for its corner-stone, with the Bible for its foundation-walls, an Apostolic Ministry for its guarding-buttresses Baptism its wide and open, but still only door of en; trance, holiness, with charity, for its long extended aisles, faith its high-altar of true and bloodless sac- rifice, and love to a redeeming Saviour the kindling fire upon it. The Methodists whom you mentioned, claim John Wesley as their founder. He was an Epis- copal clergyman, who lived and died in the church. His course was not a wise one in many respects, but his honest purpose was to stir up life in the old church, which Christ had established, once for all. Finding that some of his followers began to prefer the noise and excitement of their meetings to the Solemnity and proprieties of our services, he laid ,   rown thi- strict rule, "'Let al bou preachers go to Ahufih; let, all the people go constantly; let them Teoeive the sacrament at every opportunit; warn al against despising the prayers of the church against calling our society a church;:- against celling our preachers ministers." "Whenever there is any church service, I do not approve of any appointment the same hour."  By this time they had entered the town, and were :pasing by a plain, square, homely-looking building, with a bell ringing away in great style, from a little contrivance on the roof. "These Methodists pay great attention to Mr. Wesley's advice," said Edward, pointing to the peo- ple who were collectingaboutthedoor; "Ishould think they would be afraid to be thus disobeying his rule;" Mr. Mason paid no attention to the remark, per- haps did not hear it; but thus continued, )' The Methodists, Henry, have, as I conceive, a better aim to consider themselves a church than any other ipndern sect; and you see for yourself upon what a sandy foundation their whole fabric rests." "Yes indeed, uncle," said Hery, "sandy enough. Why, Mr. Wesley, who has' the credit of having formed the church, declares himself that it is no church. What better authority could we ask V' The driver now stopped before the church gate, and the little party went in. 6* t   IO66   THRE  Y WTr W AA tA IN:ED The second service being at night, they always ir- turned home to dinner, and spent the remainder of the day as profitably as they could.  Sometimes Mrs. Mason took the boys with her to see the spoor people of the neighborhood, or if the weather was unfavorable, they employed themselves in reding. After supper on Sunday night, Mr. Ma- son always heard them say the Catechism, and ex- plained some parts of it. Then the boys took turns in reading aloud, for the benefit of the family. The "Spirit of Missions" was generally laid by for these occasions, and several biographies interested them very much. Among these were the lives of George Herbert, Henry Martyn and Bishop Heber, and the Early Years of Bishop Hobart. Mr. Mason made this selection with a view of keeping Edward's miidd constantly directed towards that sacred calling, in which he fondly hoped his son might spend his days. He thought it both impolitic and wrong, to be con- stantly bringing the subject before him in conversa- tion, and preferred such indirect influences as I have named. At first, Henry looked forward to Sunday night as a very tiresome time; but soon he became as much interested as any of them, and took his turn in reading with real satisfaction. By way of im- pressing the outline of Bible history on the mind, and of keeping the events in proper order, they used     o0 BE A LEGYMA.       67 a imost agreeable and useful book, called "Sunday Evenings ;" a series of conversations between a mo. ther and her son. ; - When the boys showed the least sign of weariness, the reading was stopped, and they were encouraged :to converse on any subject of interest which presented. ;itself. - On the night of the Sunday of which I was speak- ing last, matters had reached this point, and Edward, in casting his eyes about the room, saw. the small -likeness of Bishop Hobart, which hung over the fire. place. "Did you ever see Bishop Hobart, mother?" he asked, still looking at the picture. "Oh yes, my son," Mrs. Mason answered; "I :have often heard him preach, and he confirmed your fEther and myself." "I knew he was a good man," said Edward, " be- cause he did so much for the church, and seemed to be always thinking about it. Did not every body love him?" "You can be but little acquainted with the world, Edward," said his father, "if you imagine that good people will have no enemies. Popularity is by no means a sure proof of worth. Besides our Saviour says, 'Wo unto you when all men speak well of you!' showing that we must expect opposition and reproach if we go straight forward in the way of duty. But iany who found fault with Bishop Hobart while   livi', have had cause to change their minds sinci his death."  "Do you remember, my dear," said Mrs. Mason, to her husband; , what a torm was raised, because he would not unite with what are called the evin- gelical aI onmipations" in circulatig the Scriptures?"i! "Yes, indeed!" replied Mr. Mason; "and it is a remarkable fot, Maria, that at the very time the good Bishop brought all that odium upon himself, by insisting that the Bible and Prayer-book should go together, and that the ministers of God's appoint. ment should be sent to explain his Word, there were sectarian missionaries in some of their foreign sta- tions, actually translating the Prayer-book into the language of the natives, as the only hope of mAking' any favorable impression upon them." "You said this morning, uncle," remarked Henry, that there is only one true church. Do you think none can be saved, except those who belong to it F" "I should be very sorry to believe so," answered Mr. Masoni "Although we are constantly acoused of bigotry and exclusiveness, the charge is grossly absurd. Instead of teaching, as some do, that none but the elect can be saved, or none but those who 'have been immersed, we are confident that all who from the beginning of the world, have served God, according to the degree of their light, will be re. warded hereafter, according to the degree of their   TO BE A CLERGYMA4.       vu improvement. They will come from the east, and from the west, and sit down together in His king- dbm." Here Sally came in with a tray of cakes and ap. ples; and as boys are seldom indisposed to partake of such things, we will leave them for the present to enjoy this treat. V1 ,   tO   . T. H hT &- W  WA*S WABfED prayers-Recovery-Thanksgiving. - were seated at the breakfast table, Mrs. Masen noticed that Edward ate nothing, and that he lacked his usual cheerfulness. His cheeks also seemed slightly flushed, and he was very hoarse. He was so seldom sic that the parents were somine what alarmed, and at once preoribed for him steh simple remedies as they were accustomed t ', M use upon occasions of the kind. The ice-house was to be filled that day, and Edward and Henry had been looking forward to this event with great satisfaction. It was out of the question for the sick boy to think of such exposure now, and his cousin felt so sorry, that he very considerately remained at home, to help to amuse him. Thomas soon drove off with the sleigh, and Mr. Mason walked down to the pond to give some di. rotions to the men. z r;   - ;    v. *i. Vj xSAn-ft:; - * L Poor Edward ,w  in no conditionto be aised, but was so restless and languid, that he soon beggedy permission to go to bed. His mother became still more. uneasy,and sent in haste for her husband. Ih years gone by, they had more .than once been called to pass, beneath afflition's rod; and the fact that for some time past all had-gone smoothly with them, oily added to her fears, lest the dark hour of trouble might again be near. In her anxiety of mind, the tender mother persuaded herself that the "little cloud arising out of the sea," was only the forerunner of the coming storm.' Mr, Mason, upon feeling Ed, ward's pulse, was equally alarmed, although he had to much prudence and self-possession to betray it by word or look, and a messengerwas dispatched to tht, village for the physician. Meanwhile, all that fAod affection could devise, to soothe and relieve tha little sufferer, was promptly done., Sometimes Edward would toss about from side to side unable to find any position which seemed com- fortable at all, for his aching head. Again his thoughts wandered, and in fitful dreams he mut- tered to himself about things which had engaged in time of health. Then, as if exhausted by efforts too great for his feeble frame, the helpless child would sink down into a state of stupor. -The time which passed between the departure of the messenger, and the arrival of the physician, seemed an age.   Daylight was slowly fading away, and night crept on apace, adding deeper gloominess to a scene al- ready dark enough. Mrs. Mason sat by the bed-side, unwilling for any cause to leave her post. Her hus. band was restless and unhappy, now feeling the pulse of his darling boy, now whispering some suggestin or word of encouragement to his wife, and then agaia hurrying to the gate, and looking with anxious gaze for the returning messenger. Henry was thoughtful above his years, and rendered every assistance in his" power. At. last the doctor came. He had been ab- sent in the country, when this fresh summons reached him, and this had occasioned the delay. It was clear from the prompt measures which he took, that he considered Edward's case as dangerous, although he expressed no decided opinion on the subject. Indeed, he carefully avoided giving a direct answer, when Mrs. Mason asked him what he thought of the condition of her son. The kind physician spent the night with them, watching the development of the disease, and insisting that the mother, now worn out by fatigue and anguish, should lie down and take some rest. The morning dawned, but with it no gleams of hope. Edward, if anything, seemed worse, and the physician could ill conceal the anxiety which he felt. Being obliged to go back to town tQ visit other patients, he left minute directions as t the course to be pursued during his absence, a4 promised to return as soon as possible.   TO BE A CLEIROYMAN.      7i It would be vain for me to attempt to describe the feelings and anxieties of the parents during this king and dismal day. Tidings of Edward's Sickness had spread through the neighborhood, and many kind messages were brought, making inquiries about his welfare, and offering help. The mother's head was o bwecd down like a bulrush, and' the very warmth aid earnestness of these friendly words only added to the keenness of her distress. She felt that the peril of her darling must indeed be great, when the whole community seemed thus to sympathize in her alarming anticipations. Let it not be thought that these parents had forgotten to look to ONE for com- fort and support, whoalone has power to help. With- but ceasing had they both besought our Father in heaven to hear their earnest prayers. They took courage from the kind assurance, "Call upon Me in the time of trouble; so will I hear thee, and thou shalt praise me." Pea. 1. 15. They remembered that a prophet's prayer had praised the widow's son, and that at the Saviour's bid- ding Lazarus had come forth from' the grave. Be- fore the physician's return an idea seemed to strike Mrs. Mason, as she moistened the parched lips of her suffering child, and turning to her husband, she whispered, "Send Thomas for Mr. Palmer." The gardener needed no urging to make him use all speed; and the clattering of the horse'a feet were in a few 7    -' 4   ',L JIL ,rj 3LP X J. Tv ... .. moments heard, as he galloped down the lane. -Be- side the consolation of praying for Edward herself, Mis. Mason had just remembered that there was yet another source of help, to which she had forgotten to apply. 1The physician for the body had been sent for, but where was the physician for the soul, the chosen messenger of the Great and good Physician? Had not an inspired apostle left on record these marvellous words, '"The prayer of a righteous man availeth muchi' James v. 16. Does he not direct that if any be sick, the Christian minister should be sent for, to intercede in his behalf? The doctor and Mr. Palmer reached the house with- in a few minutes of each other. They had often met under similar circumstances before; the physician had already witnessed too many. proofs of the sooth- ing, consoling influences of religious services in the sick room, to offer the slightest objection to the cler- gyman's visits to his patients. But the privacy of scenes of sorrow is too sacred to be intruded upon by prying eyes and ears, and I shall pause at the thres- hold of the darkened chamber, while the good man goes in to pray. *  *   8  *   *  *  *  * A week has passed. It is a bright Sunday morn- ing, and the whole of Mr. Mason's household, great and small, are assembled for family worship. There must be some mercy, more than those which should   make us thankful day by day, which is impressed upon the father's mind, while he reads, with utter- ance half choked, and glistening eyes, "Thou didst turn thy face from me,: and I was troubled-then cried I unto thee, O Lord; and gat me to my Lord right humbly. Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon sme: Lord, be thou my helper. Thou hast turned my heaviness into joy: thou hast put off my sack- cloth, and girded me with gladness: therefore shall every good man sing of thy praise without ceasing: O my God, I will give thanks unto..thee forever." Ps. xxx. 7, 8, 11, 12, 13.   CHAPTER XI. Opening spring-Establishment of a colony-Sick boy-Ar- rival of friends-School for the poor-Sacrifices-Doing more than is agreeable. SPRING, with its buds and bloom, was hastening on, when the boys began to agitate the subject of the rabbit warren, with even greater interest than before. Edward was anxious to have the work com- pleted before his sister returned from school. Ac- cordingly, as soon as study hours were over the labor began. Thomas had prepared the posts and pickets during the winter, so that nothing now re- mained but to put them up.  But the fence alone would not be sufficient security. He accordingly drove down long stakes into the ground, about an inch apart on every side of the pen. Meanwhile, Henry and Edward were busy in putting up a little house in the middle of the warren, which was to be a sort of homestead for the colony. Very likely the rabbits would have preferred their own burrows for the purpose, but they could now, at least, have a choice.  .    .         . .  . .-   Of course it took much longer to do this work; than -to describe it. However, it -was at last so nearly finished that the boys were setting off in high glee, to bring the little creatures from the wood-house to their new quarters, when the gardener, who was fastening a button on the gate, raised his head, and asked, "Master Edward, did you know that Tom Hall was mighty sick?" No," answered Edward, with evident concern. ' How sick, Thomas?  What is the matter with him? Has he had the doctor V" "It was the doctor himself who told me," said the gardener. "I met him in the road this morning. He said that Tom had a fever, and that the little fellow stood a poor chance, because his parents could afford him so few comforts." t.-Edward staid to hear no more, but leaving his cousin to attend to the removal of the rabbits, ran to the house as fast as he could. The effect of his haste was soon apparent-when Mrs. XIason was seen going down' the lane accompanied by her son, who had a basket on one arm, and a bundle of clean linen under the other. They found Tom lying on a miserable, uncomfor. table bed, in a little leaky house, near the mill. His motherwas busy in heating something over the fire, and a dirty, ragged girl sat by the sick boys trying to fan him with a newspaper, which had been 7*   ,-       ---     '   twisted up for the purpose. Tom was suffering with an intolerable thirst. Mrs. Mason, taking a lump of ice from the basket, and wrapping it in a clean towel, brokeitupand gave him a small piece at a time, to melt in his mouth. He seemed greatly refreshed, and ceased his moaning, which it had been distress- ing to hear. Edward busied himself in trying to make things more comfortable about the bed. The sick boy could scarcely believe his eyes, when he saw who were thus kindly ministering to his wants. He thought of his own badness. He remembered the unkind things he had done to Edward, and the many trespasses he had committed upon Mr. Mason's property. At length his feelings of shame and self- reproach quite overcame him, and covering his head with the bed-clothes, he began to sob bitterly. It was some time before he became composed enough to tell the cause of his distress. Mrs. Mason spoke soothingly to him, and asked if  they should pray to God to help him. Although the poor fellow had perhaps never tried to pray in his life, he knew that there was an Al- mighty Being, who had power to bless, or to punish, and accordingly he accepted of the ofer with thank- fulness. They all knelt down, and Mrs. Mason repeated the Lord's prayer, (Edward joining with her in this,) and the prayer for a sick child.  * ...   V Vm an ^JtomJaujitA h.     dI Promising to send in the evening to inquire after her patient, and telling Mrs. Hall to come to the -house for anything they needed, she returned home. I have gone on so slowly with my history thus far, that it will be necessary for me to make more speed. Let me say, therefore, in few words, that Tom's sick- ,ness, though painful and lingering, did not prove fa- tal. By God's blessing upon the physician's skill, and the kindness of Mr. Mason's family, he was about again in a few weeks. I am' happy to add, that he arose from his sick bed a wiser ands better boy. He seemed now resolutely determined to try to do right, and the great improve- ment in his character was remarked by all who knew -him. When the excitement attending Lucy's return from :school, and the arrival of Henry's mother, had some. what subsided, Mrs. Mason broached a plan one evening, which she said had long occupied her thoughts. Several families in humble circumstances were living within a mile of the house, and as they enjoyed no church privileges, she proposed to orga- nize a Sunday school, for the benefit of the children, who were thus growing up in ignorance. The young people warmly seconded the proposal. Mrs. Parish, although she had no personal concern in it, was very considerate for the convenience of others, and therefore said to Mrs. Mason, in some amazement,   i89    TTH BOY: WHO WAS VRA2NED "Really, Maria, you cant' be serious in proposing to bring all those unmannerly children here, to worry: your life out-of you!".  "N o,"' answered Mrs. Mason, amused at theother's warmth, "that certainly is not my object. But I -mean to ask them to come, and learn something !which will be likely to benefit them."  "But" resumed Mrs. Parish, "'consider how much trouble it will give you. Sunday is the only breathing spell that one has; and to lose that, for the sake of those poor, ignorant creatures, who will not even thank you for your pains, isa asking too much." "If we only do the pleasant parts of our duty,"' said Mrs. Mason, "and leave the rest to take care of itself, the world will be the worse; and Iam sure, we shall not be in the way to deserve happiness or- prosperity." "You see, sister," interposed Mr. Mason, who; knew that her easy, self-indulgent disposition could. not understand, in its full extent, the obligation- which rests upon every follower of the Saviour to carry his cross with patience-"You see, sister, that Maria is just as resolute as ever, in whatever she undertakes. There will be no use in trying to oppose the, scheme;, so let us see what can be done to help it along."      . The family then entered into a friendly conver-   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.       81 cation on the subject, each one making any sugges. tion he thought best. It was finally determined that the children's play room should be fitted up with benches, Which could be set out of the way during the week, and that Mr. Mason should send for the necessary books. All entered into the measure with such hearty good will, that in the course of two weeks the school had been organized, much to the satisfaction of the scholars and the encouragement of the teachers. The rule was, to meet at three o'clock on Sunday afternoon, when Mr. Mason began the exercises with the appropriate little service, in the 'office of devo- tions." Mrs. Mason and Lucy each had a fine class of girls, of different ages and capacities. Henry and Edward were required to recite a les- son in "Beavin's Help to Catechising," and after- wards were allowed to teach some of the smaller boys their alphabet. Our friend Frank, whom we have not heard from so long, had been taught to sing at school; and- his skill in this department was now turned to some account. The children began with plain psalm tunes, and afterwards learned several chants. It was a pleasant spectacle to see their happy   8 THE B0Y B O WAS TRAINED faces while thus engaged. The once unruly Tom had become diligent and teachable, and was making quite rapid improvement, considering how long his mind had lain uncultivated like a barren waste. Iwould not have you suppose that everything went on smoothly, without discouragements and drawhacks. Some of the children would occasionally be rather unmanageable. Now and then they had a quarrel among themselves. Once several stopped coming for a Sunday or two, and when Mrs. Mason inquired the cause, it turned out that the Baptist parents had been alarmed at some notions which their children had brought home about" baby sprinkling," as they called it. These difficulties, and others, which I shall not stop to enumerate, were all overcome by the ener- getic, prudent course pursued by the directors of the school.   S0 BE A CLERGYMAc.      8 CHAPTER XII. Horse-back rides-Fishing-Bad temper cured-Ol-0d red lion- Temperance in all things-Rector's visit-Mr. Wilson-First fruits-Baptism. MRS. PARISH had intended to take her two sons home with her for a few weeks; but Mr. Masoq urged so strongly that they should remain where they were, that at last she consented, upon conditiotn that the whole family would make her a visit at Christmas. It is something of an undertaking to travel so far in 'cold weather, but as the time was yet at a dis. tance, and the difficulties on this account seemed less insuperable, he promised accordingly. The boys were now all large enough to manage a horse, and Mr. Mason encouraged them to ride daily. He considered it a great disadvantage for any man,and especially a minister, not to be able to ride and drive with confidence.  Occasions 'will sometimes arise, when it will be absolutely necessary that he should do'so. Frank had a decided turn for field sports. His   uncle did not actuallyfobid his use of a gun, but always in'isted that he should go by himself, in order not to risk the lives of others.  He advised, however, that fishing should be sub- stituted, if amusements of the sort must be had; and as it was much pleasanter to have company in hias sports, this soon became the order of the day. I am unable to say what influence Isaac Walton's "Complete Angler," may have had in determining his choice. I only know that he pored over the: book for some days, and fishing took the place of gunning. It is but justice to Frank to state that he had de- rived great benefit from the discipline of school, and intercourse with other boys. Sometimes his old infirmities would manifest them-- selves, but always in a modified form. He had received no little credit for his deportment; at Mr. Mason's during this visit, and his partial mother had probably given vent to her satisfaction? somewhat too often for his good. If this were the case, his self-satisfaction had a damper put upon it; for one day, being crossed in some purpose, passion got the better of his judgment, and he used several highly offensive words. His uncle mildly reproved him, and watching an opportunity when he had recovered his good temper, he said to him, "I am afraid, my dear boy, that you   thut too much to yourselft and db not t hiito ask God' help to enable youe to   pa n todothoee things that are right." Frank made no reply, and his uncle continued, "I once heard a story of an inneeper who had :fr hi sign a great red lion, painted in the grotesque style of early times. His successor-in business detemine toimprove upon this, and employed an artist to frnish &more appropriate device. He 'oon spread a ovrfing of white paint over the king of besuts, and ornamented the board with a fine brick house, having treeapd shrubbery about it; and' everything ele in keep4i "The improvement called forth universal appr bation. Ih course of time, the effect of hut, and cold, and storm began to be manifest. The colors of the picture became less bright. In some places it was quite indistinct. At last the coat of white paint, which had served as the ground-work, began to peel off; and then once more the faoe of the old redlion was seen looking out as fierely asbefore. "This has always seemed to me an excellent illus- tration of the impossibility of getting rid of thoe deeply imprinted marks of sin which have been made in the soul, unless something more then outward re frmation-a white wasing of the chariotP, as I may call it, be resorted to." Frank was. interested in, wh&t hisuncia ald, and i8              I   88    CB M   Wr mIO wts mnizKtn although he discovered that the remarks had r ne to his own cse   farfrom being offender he desired Mr. Mson to proceed.  "Any chnge -to be permanent, FManis must eah the heart. Thi can only be effected by the help-of God's grae;." The conversation had glided on imperceptibly, Ai til that which began as a gentle reprimand for futs, assumed the form of a pleasant discourse, in whith the prowed, as we as the rePoer, felt interested. "I sppose unle," remarked Frank, "that with the views you have just expressed, you cannot place much dependence in the system of pledges upon which the temperance movement is grounded?" None at all," answered Mr. Mason; "the whole thing proeeds upon wrong principles. It is as muh as saying, that the gospel having failed to reform the world, some other mchinery, better adapted for the purpoe, must be devised. But until you an inspire apersn's ons science with a sense of right and wrong all the pledging in the world will not keep him sober, or enable him to do anything else." "Do you think temperance societies altogether un- necessy " asked Frank. "Most assuredly' said his uncle. "To be tern perae i I   in eating as well as in drilWiy is a very important part ,f religion. If thegod is prehed, as-a matter of course, w Pernae is not   TO BB  CLeOYMar.       87 los sight of. You my-as well organize antiswear. ing, or anti-Amoking societes, and any others you please, as those which are promisng to do such great things now." :,Here Lucy came in to say that Mr. Palmer had arrived, according to appointment, to baptize Mr. Wilson's children. I ought, perhaps, to stop long enough to say, that Mr. Wilson was the owner of the mill, and what the world calls ' a thrifty man." He was strictly upright ad honest, but so bent upon becoming rich, that he seldom thought of the relities of another life. ' Making no pretension to religion himself, hec ared very little for it in others; and sometimes congratu. J:ted himself that he was better than those who were '.aled Christisns, He would certainly have been greatly astonished, if any one had told him a few months before, that a clergyman would ever come to -theneighborhood to baptize his children. Yet so. it was!  Mr. Mason went out at once to welcome the rec- tor, whose visits were always highly pried.  The good man seemed to enjoy the country air and quiet. He had a kind word for every body, and took an interest in the progress of the children; making special inquiries as to what Edward had been reading, and offering some suggestion which would have the effect of keeping his thoughts in a proper channel.   8R    THC BOR WHO M was TRAINED - Sometimwe he brought a book for him to read; sometimeni he rferred to encouraging reports from the Mnissioan ry field; sometimes he spoke of changes fore he better, in their own parish. Therewas always an opening for a happy and pro- itable reference .to the subject of the ministry, and he never failed to use it to the best advantage. The baptism, of whioh Lucy spoke, was one odfthe first fruits of the Sunday School. The hildren were all taught the Cateehism, and Mr. Mason, had provided a good selection of books and tracts, which they were allowed to take home with them.               . Mrs. Wilson, in reading one of these, had become convinced that she was wrong in suffering her chil. dreu to grow up :like heathen, and sh spoke to-her hunband about having themchristened. He objected very stoutly; not that he had any reasons to urge; ;but he had :been saturated with the spirit of indifference, which is one of the effect aof the mournful divisionsamong Christians, and insisted that the children should be illowed to grow up, and choose for themselves. Mrs. Wilson was too much in earnest to be put off in this way, and atlast lhe consented, very prudently, however, throwing all the responsibility upon her. The children were-brought to Mr. Mason's, and the family assembled in the dining-room.   TO BE A CLBROYMAN.       89 Mrs. Mason and Lucy were the sponsors. It was really an impressive scene. Two boys and three girlsi were thus enrolled as soldiers of Christ, and signed with the cross, in token of their allegiance to Him. When the service was over, Mr. Palmer took the basin of water which had been used, and emptied it out of doors. He had no superstitious notionson the subject; but he felt that everything which -has a tendency to encourage a proper reverence for sacred things, ought to be attended to. The neglect of small matters, is apt to make us i'm different about greater ones. The baptism soon became the subject of conver- sation about the neighborhood, and other parents be- gan to think it might be well to give their children the same privilege. Mr. Hall the miller, was one of these. Tom was now too old to be baptized as a child, and Mr. Mason had been taking him through a course of instruction, for some time past, in view of his re- ceiving this sacrament as au adult. Mr. Palmer would have preferred to have had the baptism in the church; but as this, for several reasons, seemed quite impracticable, he made another appoint- ment to visit the country. "And why not have service when he comes?" in- quired Mrs. Mason, as soon as she heard of it. "So we can, my dear," answered her husband, if you will find a suitable place for the purpose." 8*   90    THS BOTY wo WAS  4"Iam ure," she observed, with herusual prompt. ness, when a matter of interest engaged her thoughts, ' I am sure Mr. Hall will let us have the big room in the mill, hee the political meeting was held last year." "A good thought," replied her husband; and upon this suggestion, the application was made, and a cheerful onsent given But as I have already spun out my *iapter too long, I must leave the carrying out of this plan til my next.   TO BE A CLEr  YMAN.      91 CHAPTER XIII. Service at the mill-Sermon for the times-Bishop Chse- Highways and hedges-Chnuro colleges-Leaving home-- ' he new tnk-Departure. To accommodate the laboring people, the service was held at night. A small stand, with a writing desk on the top, formed a pulpit. The room was tolerably lighted by candles placed here and there. The lager children of the Sunday School had learned to respond, from using the Office of Devo- tion," which I mentioned before. At the hour appointed, about fifty persons, large and small, had assembled; and Mr. Palmer, arrayed in his gown, took his place at the desk. He began by explaining, in a few simple remarks, the nature of the service which was to follow; telling the people that However new it might seem to them, the time had been, when the whole Christian church as one, and that their forefathers for generations, had worshipped God according to the rules of the Prayer. book. He then began with that glorious vision of the final I^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M   92 -   THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED triumph of Christ's kingdom in the earth: "From the rising of the sun, even unto the going down of the same, My name shall be greatamong the Gentiles; and in every place, incense shall be offered unto My name" &c. The chants were very well sustained, and at the closeof thesecond lesson, the candidates wererequested to present themselves for baptism. Tom Hall and his mother, and several small hil- dren came forward. Mr. and Mrs. Mason were witnesses for the adults. Who could have believed that the tongue of the once lawless Tom, which had been "full of cursing and bitterness, would so soon be heard solemnly prom- ising, by God's help, to "keep His holy will and coipmpdments, and walk in the same all the days of his life?" When the psalm had been sung, Mr. Palmer an- nounced as his text our Saviours promise to His peo- ple: "Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I,in the midst of them."--St. Matthew xviii. 20. He used no notes on this occasion, as a written ser- mon would have seemed strange to most of those prey- ent. Besides, he designed'to discourse to them in a familiar style, suited to their capacities and tastes. The preacher began by reminding his hearers iWo it was that thus addressed them in the text; none   ,other than the GrteatHeadof the churoh, the Eternal -Son of God. :& He then mentionedthetvarious waysin which Christ Jeus was presont with  ias .people. eies in ;the midst of them to hear their prayers. He speaks to them in the lessons from theBible. Heblesses the sacraments of the church, to the good of such as rightly receive them. He msaes the instructions of his ministers profitable to the humble-minded and the teachable.  He enlarged upon each of these points, butI have no room to give his remarks. In conclusion, lhe urged upon all to improve the privileges vouchsafed, and never by indifference or unbelief, to provoke the Saviour to withdraw His presence from them. A solemn silence reigned for some moments after the benediction had been pronounced; and then all quietly retired to their homes. "The church has been too backward in availing herself of such opportunities of doing good," said the rector, when the family had reached Mr. Mason's house. "I often think of a remark which I heard from good old Bishop Chase, when pleading the claits of the west. He insisted that the :regular es- thsbed parishes, in our cities and towns, regarded the church as a fine lady, whose lawnand linen and silk could not be expected to go forth into the high- ,ays and hedges." ,t 9'   "-A most. absurd idea Lsaid. Mr. Mason, c but entertained, no doubt, by many good people. If the high claims of the church are not all mere moon- shine, she must be adapted to the wants of al peo- ple, whether rude or refined."  "Certainly," returned Mr. Palmer, "and we lose ground daily, by leaving the  usAh-fightitg,  it iS called, to be done by others. We are bound 4to " preach the gospel to every creature,' and we cannot hope for God's blessing, while we neglect the poor and the ignorant."  The evening was wearing away, and Mrs. Mason 'very considerately observed,' that as Mr. Palmer must be weary after the labors of the day, probably he would like to retire early to rest.  He thanked her, saying, "I should be glad to do so. Let us first however, sing a hymn, and unite in a short prayer. As we have been engaged in mission- ary work tonight, suppose we sing Bishop Heber's hymn."  All therefore, joined in singing, "From Green. land's icy.mountains;" and the little company dis/ persed.  Since the great improvement in Tom Hall's cha- racter, Mr. Mason had been desirous to see him en- gged in regular business. His first idea was to take him into his own employ, as assistant to the gardener:; but, upon farther reflection, he determined to let himf learn a trade in town.    Mr. Mason had some inflnencei*ith-a thrifty, enter. prising book-binder, who, upon his recommendation; agreBed to riceive Tom into hie establishrient. : It is true, the lad would be tmore exposed to evil examples and temptations, thanin the eouutly; but. his kind fend thought that these objections would be overbalanced by the social and religious privileges he could there enjoy.  About this time, Frank and Lucy went back to school, and having thus got some of our friends into active employment, it will be needful for me to pass over a long space of time, in which nothing unusual occurred. Henry and Edward continued to improve in their studies, and the Sunday School prospered. Kt Mr. Palmer had been so encouraged by his services at themill, that he came out for the purpose once a; month. Edward had just passed his fourteenth birth-day. Although naturally of a frail constitution, the wise' course adopted by his father, in obliging him to take plenty of exercise in the open air, had made him comparatively stout and vigorous.  The habit of reading aloud had strengthened his limgs, and given him a good command of his voice. "Mr. Mason having -now carried him through his'. preparatory studies, was casting about, to know 'what' college would suit him best.    96    TIK BOY WlO WAS THATI1) He consulted with friends and glei  ldinfrm tion from every available source. As the result of theseinquiries, he oncluded that he ought. to patronise a church institution, The larger universities n boast of their libries and full cops of rofessors;: but, after all,Mr MamO knew, from his own experience, tha'theirbook were seldom of much benefit to the students and that the long list of titled dignitaries, was no evidence that the instruction would be more thorough than in school of less pretension. The fact that church colleges are in their isfa-yT and consequently weak, is no reason why they should. he nelected. Nay, it is a strong arguniet why oar people should stand by and sustain them. Mr. Mason ated upon this principle, and arrange ments were accordingly made for Edward'sdeparture to college, at the opening of the next session. As Henry was to be a merchant, his father thought it unnecessary that his classical eduction should be caried on further. He therefore, returned, to the city, with a view of attending to book-keeping. Ed- ward's mother was very busy in preparing clothes, and everythingnecessary for. his comfort. He never had been absent from home foreany long timsebefore; and it was with a heavy heart, that she thought of his going now. A new trunk was got for him, with his name on -    - fTO; SB cA .mYar. ot- - a s plate, and in this his clothes and books were packed. -The morning for his departure arrived much sooer, than any body wished, '-His father was to go and see him safely through with his examinations. The carriage drove to the door, to take them to the t, n from which the boat would start. ' The luggage was strapped on behind. Edward lingered as long as possible, arranging some little matters which were to be attended to during his abA 8eSne. He shook each member of the household affection. ttely by the hand, unable to give utterance to a word; and when his mother tenderly embraced him, saying, it fltering accents, 1 God bless you, my son" he hasteaed to the carriage, that he might give vent to his feelings in a flood of tears.   98    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED CHAPTER XIV. College examination-Freshman class-Fitting up a room- The first night-Noisy visitora-sFree concert-Welcome de liveranoe. THE college examination passed off as such thingi usually do, the reality proving not half so terrible at the anticipation. Although Edward was thoroughly prepared, so fa as scholarship was concerned, his mind was kept in a state of feverish excitement and apprehension, until ii had been oficially announced that the thirty young gentlemen who had presented themselves, were re. ceived as members of the freshman class. Mr. Mason requested that his son might be allowed a room-mate somewhat older than himself, that he might sooner become acquainted with the ways of the world, into which he was thus suddenly brought. He knew that Edward, having hitherto enjoyed the peaceful retirement of home, might otherwise be bewildered; although he felt great confidence in the stability of his moral principles, resting, as they did, upon a sure trust in the Almighty.   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.       99 A room was accordingly assigned to him, which was occupied by Charles Porter, a member of theju- nior class. He had not returned, at the opening of the session, so that I cannot present him to the reader just now. Our young collegian soon provided himself with the necessary furniture and books, and you may imagine him, if you please, sitting down on the first night of the term, to begin his lessons. His father having already left town, the last link which bound him to his much loved home seemed rudely broken, and his heart began to fail. He felt, however, that he had a work to do, and that despondency would only hinder him in the at- tempt to prosecute it with success. Brushing a tear from his cheek, he trimmed his lamp; and arranging his Xenophon and Lexicon, be- gan in good earnest. The bell for study hours had rung, and Edward took it for granted that all, for whose benefit the sig- nal was given, would be as prompt to heed it as him- self. He was therefore surprised to hear the most out- landish noises, and merry peals of laughter from va- rious parts of the hall; and in the course of an hour or so, the trampling of many feet seemed coming to- wards his door. A violent thump was given, and before the host   coud /invite his guests to enter, a boisterous set of yobuhs, from fourteen to twenty, marched in without ceremony, each puffing away at a cigar, and appar. ently quite #ttisfieO with themselves, and with every- body else. "Well, Mason," said one of the party, with a fancy smoking cap on one side of his head, and a large stick in his hand, with whom Edward remembered-to have eTchapged a few words in the morning, ,' Well,Ma- son, we tlought we'd come and make you a sociable visit to-night, knowing that you must be rather lonely and low-spirited."  Edward, uncertain whether to take him in jest or earnest, invited them to be seated, regretting that he had not chairs enough for the company. "Oh never mind," said the knight of the smoking cap, "we'll make ourselves perfectly at home." With this, he set the example, by plumping down in the middle of the bed, while those who could not find chairs, took possession of the trunks and table. "And now that we are all comfortable," shouted a scrubby)ittle fellow, with a fiery red head, "Joe Spencer, give us a song." "With all my heart," answered the worthythus addressed, clearing his pipes for the purpose, "and you must all join in the chorus with vim." "f Wait a moment, till I give you the pitch," sid the hero with the big walking stick; so saying, he   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.       LVI thumped the floor most vigorously, and the song began. "Spencer led off in very respectable style, and the rest assisted in th4. chorus, in the manner he had re- quested. Poor Edward looked on in mute astonishment. ' "Russell," cried a wiry-looking youngster;iwho had perched himself on the window sill, and was add. -ing his share to the noise by kicking the wall with his heels, "Russell, let's have a Latin chant now. Maybe, as Mason is a-student who consumes the mid- night oil, he may prefer it to plain Queen's English." The new chorister waited for no second invitation, but began with a familiar air an ode of Horace, pro- bably the only scrap of learning he could muster for the purpose. "Mgecenas atavis edite regibus,  O, et praesidium et dulce decus meum, Sunt, quos curriculo pulverem Olympicumn," e. "Bravo! bravo! encore!" screamed the delighted crowd, at the same time stamping their feet and clap. ping their hands till Edward was nearly deafened by the noise, and suffocated with the dust thus raised -from every crevice in the floor. "I! declare, Russell," said, Spencer, with mock modesty of manner, "you throw me into dim obh- -Ourity." "Yes indeed," cried the red-haired freshman, "he 9*   MJUVJ   LJ3 .LJ1i . WLV .W;1l .^Va. aw can chant mass better than Cardinal Wolsey him. self."  But din and uproar at last become tiresome to those who enjoy them most, and somebody proposed that Mason should furnish a cold collation for the com- pany, in return for their musical entertainment. This was like adding insult to injury; but the mo- tion was carried unanimously, with increased noise and confusion, when the door suddenly opened, and a college tutor requested the rioters to retire to their rooms.  The assembly immediately dissolved, some one say. ing in a jocular way, as they hurried along the hall, "Who'd have thought it was so late? I declare, I did not observe the study bell!" Edward thus delivered from his tormentors, tried  to arrange his bewildered thoughts. Having at length finished his task, he read the Psalter for the, evening, and in addition to his usual devotions, be-  sought God to bless his absent friends, and t9 carry him safely through the trials and temptations of his new state of life. With a quiet conscience, he retired to rest; his dreams of home being strangely mixed up with vis- ions of smoking caps and canes, and a noisy company of unbidden guests.  And now, having carried our young freshman safely , through his first day at college, we will leave him to .  enjoy his repose. . . . o        .      TO BE A COLEROYMAN.      103 CHAPTER XV. Early prayer's bell-Pleasant acquaintanees-.Boyish pranks- Religioub principles-Secret societies-Christian heroismL Aidnight oyster supper-Persecuted monitor. TEH  next morning Edward was roused from bed by the prayer bell. He had resolved always to be up in season to attend to his private devotions before going to recitation. This time, however, it was im- possible. It amused him somewhat, to see the sleepy. looking figures hurrying to the chapel, dressed in tattered morning gowns or shabby over-coats, each with a bundle of books under his arm. He was, how. ever, shocked to-observe that many spent the time of prayer in conning over their lessons, doing their best in this way, to make up for the hours wasted in the sports of the night before, Edward in the course of a few days began to feel more settled and contented. He had formed some pleasant acquaintances among the students, and was glad to find that the persecution he had suffered was not owing to any personal dislike, but a sort of or. deal through which every freshmin was expected to 'w                  5 I    104    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED - pass.. Indeed, he afterwards discovered that his owu experience had, been light compared with that - others. The plugging up of key-holes, and the squibd bing and ducking, and a hundred other tricks which had been practised upon his classmates, made him thankful that he had suffered no worse. Edward was so accustomed from his early religious Training to look upon evil with. abhorrence, that it would not be easy to entice him into the ordinary dissipations of college life. He had, however, other and to him more dangerous temptations to resist. Those who are familiar with the internal working of our college systems, need not be told of the interest felt by the students for their literary and secret so- cieties. They make themselves acquainted before- hand, so far as may be, with' the character and stand- ing of the new freshman, who will enter, and are ptr pared to spread their nets accordingly. It was soon noised abroad that Edward Mason'i father was wealthy, and the acquisition of a meonb with moneyed qualifications is considered a point of some interest. The societies had therefore appohied their electioneering agents to bring the various if ences to bear upon him, which students understaiid so well. Edward became a lion at once. He wa courted and caressed, and what pleased him much better, had no more practical jokes played upon hi. Every body's effort seemed to be to win his favor - A ? ^       .  - 1   TO "BE A  QLeKYM4 A.  \  1v dwa4d was puzzled to account for the change. He knew tW little of the world to unravel its devices. Nothing, however, was allowed to relax his attention to study, or interfere with the discharge of his re- ligious duties. About ten days after the beginning of the term, harles Porter made his appearance. He was at ]east three years older than Edward, and possesed  fine open countenance, and a gentlemanly bearing. It would very likely have suited him better to have a room by:himself, but as this could not be, he was evidently pleased to have a companion who promised. o be so agreeable. The president had assured Mr. Maso that Porter, though not religious, was steady and- well-disposed, and on this account, a safe com. panion for his son. This description was true, as far aa it went. Charles Porter had reached that age when flattery and other causes lead the young to sde themselves upon their acquirements, and to de- light in startling the serious-minded by bold and un- qualified statements in regard to politics and religion. the sneers and sarcasms of Paine, and the gilded poison of Gibbon, had exerted a most unwholesome jfluence upon him. But of this fact the president of he college knew nothing. On the first night after his return, Edward was srprised to see him go to bed without any devotional exerise whatever; and it made him feel rather awk- wardly as to what course he should pursue. Con.  WI,   106    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED science told him that there was but one way 'to act. He accordingly kneeled down as usual, and although Porter was probably quite as much astonished to ob: serve what Edward was about, as the latter had been to discover his neglect, he was too well bred to laugh outright while the boy was upon his knees. When he had said his prayers and was preparing to undreSs, Por: ter remarked in a trifling way, "Mason, when youi get done with your orisons, please blow out the light. It takes you a long time to tell your beads, and it is hardly fair to add to the number of your invocations, but I would be glad if you would remember to speak a good word for me "    ' Edward made no reply, but silently asked help of God to withstand the shafts of ridicule No allusion was made the next day to what had passed the night before, and Porter, Who really tool a fancy to Edward, did all he could 'to help' him through the difficulties in'his studies, and to make the hours of recreation pass pleasantly.  ' Everything had been going on quietly for a month, when one night there seemed to be some mysterious plot on hand. Several of the most unruly students were seen dodging from room to room, whispering to this one and that one, and among others, asking Por- ter's advice about something, in regard to which he gave no satisfactory answer. Long before day-break Edward heard an unusual noise in the opposite room, where Turner the bell-ringer lodged. .He seemed to   TO BE .A CLERGYMAT &N.     107 be trying to burst open the door, which he finally succeeded in doing. Edward lost himself in sleep, and did not learn the cause till afterwards. It ap. pears that several of the sophomores, who thought more of fun and frolic than of anything else, had frightened two or three freshmen into giving them an oyster supper, and in order that they might not be disturbed at their feast by the tutor, or called up. from bed too early in the morning by the bell-ringer, had fastened the doors of these functionaries, with, some contrivance of their own.  The first part of the plan was most successfully carried out; but Turner got the better of them in the second, and at the proper hour the old bell sounded its usual warning. ;-Besides the office already-mentioned, -Turner was required by the faculty to act as monitor, reporting absentees from prayers, and those who were tardy. Such duties, of course, rendered him exceedingly un. popular. Poor fellow! He was one of those praiseworthy, excellent young men who have raised themselves by incredible efforts from some humble station, and are struggling hard with poverty and opposition, to gain' a good education and prepare themselves for useful. ness ii life. j Turner must have been at this time twenty-five years of age, and his pale wasted face, and languid   '108    T11t SYt ,tO, tWAS BAINED eye, told a tale of sorrow and privation which could not be mistaken. In order to meet the expenses of his college course, he was obliged to perform the drudgery just referred to. All considerate, well-disposed students treated him with respect and kindness. Some, however, were thoughtless and wicked enough to give him all the tible they could. Edward felt drawn towards him as soon as he heard his story, and used often to go in to visit him. Al. though Turner was a Presbyterian, and rather set in his way, they had enough in common to render sch- intercourse agreeable to both parties, - his familiarity, as might be supposed, brought-upon Edward a share of the ridicule which had formerly been showered upon the bell-ringer alone. '"Have you had your prayer meeting this morning ' with brother Richard I' one would solemnly inquire "'Well, Parson Mason," another would say, "what do you think of the doctrine of original sin You will have to help Turner in his devotions a long time, before the bells of the horse, which Old 3ald-Pate read about the other day in chapel, will have holiness Written on them, much less college bells i" Edward managed to preserve his good temper; and although his pride was often deeply woundebd and his rfined sense of politeness shocked, he pursued the even tenor of his Way, turning aside eitler to the right hand nor to the left.   TO BEl A  a VgMAT.     109 CHAPT'Mt  XVI. Lent-- Good Friday- Principle and policy-The black oard -Deacon Gilleepie's party--New advocate tot the truth.- Spiritual fast. THE solemn fast of Lent had been wearing slowly away, and upon the night of Thursday in Holy Week, the college faculty were assembled, and there seemed to be some difference of opinon whether or not the re. citations should be suspended on the morrow. "It would hardly be consistent, Professor Simp. son," said the President, " for a church institution to overlook the great fast of the year, and the day of our Saviour's death." ", We have to\ think a little of POLICY in such things," answered the Professor. "GOOD FIRDAY is an important day, I will allow and this is a cOtVuo  institution, but the college is yet ir ita infncy, and I am afraid we might give Qffence to aome of our patrons, who, perhaps, would not like their sons to lose a recitation, because we happened to have a fast day."  Pogor, as I Conceive," said the, resident, "Iouldiaot hinder us from standingup for ourpinci. 10'   pies, and I would be greatly mortified-if any student undermy care should have an opportunity of reproach- ing me, as an early Bishop of one of our Dioceses was reproached. As head of a college, he was composedly hearing his class in mathematics on the anniversary of the crucifixion, when a roguish youth scrawled upon the black-board, with the chalk provided for and*er purpose, 'This is GOOD FRIDAY!'  'A pretty broad hint, certainly,' observed Tutor Davies, who enjoyed a joke, 'It was almost as good as the honest juryman, who having urged all hisarguments, in vain, to convince the judge to adjourn the court from Holy Thursday to Saturday, carried his point, by quietly remarking, "Well sir, if you do sit upon the bench on Good Friday, you will be the only judge since the days of Pontius Pilate who has done so!"'  I need not record more of this rambling discussion, suffice it to say,principle triumphed over policy, and the most solemn and sacred day of the whole year, was honored in the college, by the omission of reci- tations, and by attendance upon public worship. Some of the students, to be sure, made light of the time honored observance, and went reluctantly to church, while others managed to escape altogether, and spent the day in amusement. As a church in- stitution, however, a bold and decided stand bad been taken, which could not fail to win confidence and support from all who cared for the prosperity of'   ;J. JE ) J J JUEjXJJXU1&.I L. J Ll  Zion. An impression for good was also made, upon the mind of more than one wild and thoughtless youth, who probably until that sudden stoppage of worldly business, had never dreamed that the day of our Saviour's sufferings was known, or honored. All in the town, however, did NOT thus observe the day. Indeed, Deacon Gillespie, (not a Deacon, mind you, like those in the Scriptures, who were clergymen, and could preach and baptize,) actually gave a party on that night, to which several of the students were invited. Edward was one of these, although he had his own reasons for not going. Spencer and two or three others went; but of course without permission from the proper authorities. "And so you all marched to THE church, this morning," said Miss Angelina Gillespie, in a flippant way, curling her pretty lip in mockery as she spoke. "t Pray what did you do there?" At almost any other time, Spencer would have been ready to join with hq in ridiculing the usages of the church, but now, for some reason, her silly frivolity failed to please. He accordingly answered. "Why, attended to the service, to be sure, and heard a good sermon." ",Attended to the service!" exclaimed the young sprig of Puritanism. "That beats me. I suppose the organ made a noise, as usual, and old Mr. Plimp. ton said Amen through his nose." "*" "-   THB BVXt WUO WAtS TRAIANElU "There you are out again," said Spencer, politely handing Miss Angelina her fan, which she may pos. sibly have dropped, on purpose, to try his gallantry. "The organ was 'only played once or twice, and I must ackhowledge that the very want of music, which is generally the part I most admire, added to the im-. pressiveness of the scene." [He had never read those beautiful words of the pure-iinded and able Bishop Hore, giving the rea- son, why there is less music during Lent than at other times. "For a little season, even the sacred music of the Curch hath not been heard; but her harp also, like that of holy Job, hath been turned to mourning, and her organ into the voice of them that weep;' while either, with one of the Marys, she hath stood under the Cross, or watched, with the other, at the grave of her Lord."] ( Well, what more?" inquired Miss Gillespie, evi. dently somewhat interested in the matter, notwith- standing the indifference which sh6 tried to assume. I had no idea of going over the whole programme,' said Spencer, laughing, " but since you have asked, I may as well finish the story." By this time, several persons, old and young, had gathered around, to listen to the dialogue. "I don't know what part of the service they call it," continued Spencer, apparently not observing that the slumber of his auditors had increased, " but, at any   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.     113   rate, soon after the commandments were finished, there was a long chapter describing the scenes at the crucifixion. The clergyman read it admirably. "Every body stood up, and, on looking about me, I saw that many persons were weeping. I don't wonder, the effect was certainly almost overpowering, and when, at the close of the chapter, the organ, which thus far had been silent, struck up, and a few fine voices sang in soft and subdued tones, 'There was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour,' -and those other words which describe the wonders which marked our Saviour's death, I never, in my life, experienced such indescribable emotions before." Spencer was almost frightened at his own enthu- siasm, when, upon turning round, he discovered how many had received the benefit of his description, and heard the good-natured deacon summoning his guests to supper. - "Well," remarked Miss Angelina, taking Spen- cer's arm to go down with the company. "Good Friday might do, if people were not expected to fast. Pa says he does not believe in denying ourselves meats, or drinks, but that he goes in for a spiritual fast!" I am sorry the deacon is not at hand to explain to tis, incredulous ones, what he means by this. 10*    "4    THE BOY WHO WAS TBAIl1Wn CHAPTER XVII. Class meeting-Clay's speech-A bolt-Two heroes-Reproach -Escape from death-Course of reading-Confirmation-- Stirring sermon. ONE morning, during the earlier part of the second  session, a notice, to this effect, was seen pasted upon the front door of the college :-"The Freshman cass will meet at number 20, this moring, at 8 o'clock.".  At the hour apppinted, the members of the class were all in attendance.  A chairman was elected, and some one stated the: object of the meeting. It was to request the faculty to excuse them from recitation that morning, in order  that they might hear a speech which Mr. Clay was  expected to make in the public square. A committee was accordingly appointed for the pur- pose, and an adjourned meeting agreed upon two  hours later, to which a report of their proceedings would be made* The reckless students, for the most part trifled away the time in various sports, taking it for granted . that their request would be acceded to.   TO BE1 A CLERGYMAN.     115 A good deal of indignation was accordingly ex. pressed, when a flat refusal was returned. The faculty informed the committee that the recitations would be over in ample time for the class to attend the political gathering, if they wished; but that it would be highly improper, and a most dangerous precedent, to break in upon the order of the college exercises, because Mr. Clay, or Mr. anybody else, was to speak. Very well," shouted a dozen voices at once; "if we can't have leave, we'll go without it. I move for a bolt!" The response was one loud burst of applause. No negative was called for. When the tumult had somewhat subsided, a grave, sensible-looking youth, arose and said; "I, for one, am opposed to any such-course!" Hisses and groans silenced him at once. Cries were heard from every quarter, "Down 'with the coward I Out upon the bootlick!" At this moment who should attempt to speak, but our friend Edward. "I am just as anxious to hear Mr. Clay as any of you," he began, " but I will not go without permission." "Another white-livered coward," shouted thh mob. "Mason, don't make a fool of yourself," said somebody in a coaxing tone. As for being a coward," replied Edward, with   - JIU 1  a fl DVUT WA , -WnAv AW 6a4V^ *,1vk spirit, "you know I can't rightly be charged with that. I dislike to do anything against the wishes of the majority; but if every other member of the class votes for the bolt, I must oppose it." A more deafening clamor than ever prevented his saying any more; and, in the desperation of the mo- ment, the crowd rushed from the room, shouting, "Let the bootlicks go to recitation if they dare! we'll fix 'em out in style if they do!" The bell rang at eleven o'clock, and Edward and the other youth, who had opposed the rebellion, were the only freshmen found in their places. The recitation went on as if nothing had happened, Of course, the faculty were obliged to reprimand th absentees very severely; but, as it would hardly ant swer to dismiss so large a portion of a class, they es- 'cped without further trouble.        i Now came fresh trials for Edward.  Hitherto what persecution he suffered, had been from those in the upper classes. His own classmates were now so, provoked, that they scarcely noticed him. He was, greeted as a coward and a toady to the faculty. Every possible scheme of mischief was thought of,. in order to render him uncomfortable. Edward's faith and patience were sorely trie&d But he looked above for help, and went about his, business as before; never forgetting that he had a character to sustain, the character of a gentleman, and a Christian. l.          7   TO BI A CLXRGYMAN.      117 S This undeserved 'dium at last began to die away, ite the -ircumstance which had called it forth was til nigh forgotten. The mild spring weather tempted many of the stu- dents to wander off farther than usual, one Saturday afternoon, when it was proposed that they should go in the Water to bathe. It proved to be colder than they thought, and some, who had ventured out a good distance, were-seized with cramps in their arms and legs. -Joe Spencer, of the concert memory, was one of these. I mention him, in particular, because, though i sophomore, he had gone out of his way to show onitempt for Edward, when he refused to join with bis class in a bolt. - The hair-brained youth was now in a desperate strait. Unable to do anything for himself, he cried id piteous tones for help. 'None seemed able or willing to afford it. In the midst of the general consternation and dismay, Spen- cer disappeared. At this moment, Edward, who had already come out of the water, and was dressing him- self upon the shore, plunged in, and, by a desperate effort, brought up the half drowned lad. The other swimmers lent their assistance, and he was borne safe to land. Rubbing, and the use of simple reme- dies, soon restored the circulation. Edward was well nigh exhausted by the efforts he had made, and as   "8    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED soon as he saw Spencer out of danger, returned to his room. He was never called a coward afterwards. It was mortifying to Spencer, to feel that he owed his life to one whom he had so unmercifully abused:; but he had manliness enough to come and apologize for his wrongs, and thank his deliverer-most heartily for the disinterested kindness he had manifested.  Besides his regular studies, Edward, by his father's advice, began a course of reading. The histories of Greece, Rome, and England, kept him busy for some time. There were books in abundance at his command, and he felt convinced that one who expects to lead an active life, ought to lay in a good stock of information upon every subject, while the opporta- nity is afforded him.  No professional man can turn such a treasure to better account than a clergyman. He must mix with every class, and it is a great thing for him to be able to meet all upon their own ground. Edward paid particular attention to composition and declamation; and remembering how well it hap- pened for Mr. Palmer that he could speak extempor- aneously at the mill, he practised this art in the de. bating societies of the college. About a month before Commencement Edward reqeived a letter from this kind friend, urging him to be confirmed at a visitation which the Bishop pro- posed shortly to make to the church in the neighbor-    TO BE A CLERGYMAN.      119 hood of the college, Edward had been looking for- ward to this holy rite for two, years or more, but did not feel himself prepared'to receive it. Moreover, it would be very trying to take such a step while at college. Perhaps he did not acknowledge to him- self that this consideration had any weight with him; but it undoubtedly had. There is no telling what conclusion he might have come to, had it not been for a sermon preached by -the clergyman of the parish, on the Sunday before the expected visit of the Bishop. A larger number of students than common were present, and the subject, which was most happily chosen, seemed to interest them very much. It was an enumeration of the benefits and blessings of early piety. Among these, he mentioned the great advan- tage of beginning in season with a work so long and difficult; the barrier thus raised against the encroach- ments of vice; the promotion of happiness in the do- mestic circle; the heavenly influence exerted upon companions and friends; the indescribable satisfaction thus given to parents; the ready access afforded to a throne of grace; the preparation thus made to meet the storms of adversity; and the exceeding great re- ward laid up in the world of glory. "I have certainly furnished reasons enough, my friends," said the preacher, looking upwards to the gallery, whert the students sat in a body, with their   eyes riveted upon him, "I have certainly furnished reasons enough why you should 'desire God's favor, and why you should seek it now. "He does not expect, when you first engage in his service, that you should have attained perfection. As well might the soldier refuse to enlist, until he had fully acquired the art of war. As new and inexperienced recruits, you will of course, have much to learn; but this knowledge can only be gained by casting in your lot among God's people; going with them on their heaven-ward march; and by struggling side by side, in the deadly contest with our foes. The season when confirmation is administered. is the time when this enlistment should be made[ It is true, every one at baptism becomes a soldier ob Christ. This is to be his ultimate destiny. Until the years of discretion have been reached, he has, however, merely been going through with the prepa atory training, which is to fit him to bear the hard- ships of the camp. 4"God is now inviting you to enlist I To-day he sits upon a throne of mercy; stretches out the hand of friendsip; smiles upon you with a Father's af- fection, and says, (oh irresolute, half-determined; backward, procrastinating child, accept this offer of his love,) Those that seek M early shall find Ms.' '   ,Iw AO  -& *'J--Xuvl& A& ,*XA  AU* 1 ' I CHAPTER Xvlll. Sunday night studies-Important resolution-Visit to the par- sonage-Encouragement-Ridioule-The enlistment-Good example-Bigotry-Ambassadors without a commission. EDWARD and his room-mate were both busily en- gaged on Sunday night, the one in getting a chapter of the Greek Testament, and the other in Paley's Evidences, for the next morning's recitation, when Porthr laid down his book, and after musing for some' time, said, "I suppose, Mason, you, f course will be confirmed next Sunday?" !"The sermon to-day determined me," answered Edward* "Porter, why won't you go too '? The young man seemed fairly startled by the pro- posal. Edward had observed a great change in him for some months past. He was seldom irreverent now in speaking of sacred things, more regular at hurch, and often read his Bible. "I am afraid I should be a most unfit subject," said Porter, after reflecting upon his friend's propo. sal, for a few minutes. " ,.   If you go upon the ground of fitness or unfi ness," replied Edward, " there would be an enitof the matter with all of us. God calls sinners to his service, and promises to help us to do right, if we only show a willingness to help ourselves. I often think of a verse which I learned when a child: 'God will support our hearts b With might before unknown; The work to be performed is ours, The strength is all his own.'" I must confess," said Porter, looking very earnest as he spoke, "the sermon to-day set me to thinking seriously of the duty of being confirmed. Until I *knew you, Mason, I regarded religion as all well enough for school-girls and old people, but quite be neath the notice of men. Your character agd oon- duct have taught me better." "Don't speak of me, or of what I do," interrupted Edward, with confusion, "but Porter do go with me to see our minister." After some hesitation, the young man consented. Looking at his watch, and finding it only eight 'clock, Edward insisted that this was the best time they could possibly have. Mr. Palmer had taken pains to write to the cler- gyman whom  they proposed to visit, and put Ed- ward under his particular charge when he first   entered college; so that he felt no hesitation in call- ig upon him. Porter's courage began to sink, when Edward rang the bell at the rectory, and the servant an- nounced the visitors. They were shown into the study, where they found the clergyman. He seemed glad to see them, and so encouragedehe young men by the cheerful lightwhich he threw upon the Christian life, that they felt glad that they had come. "You must not hope to do everything at once," he remarked to Porter, who was expressing fear that he might disgrace his profession in some way. "Only try by God's help, to get the mastery over your evil tempers, and to obey his will more perfectly, day by- day."  As they rose to take their leave, he gave them each a neat copy of Bishop Wilson's Sacra Privata, and begged them to make it the companion of their lives. Although the two friends were silent about the matter themselves, and endeavored, by retirement, reading and prayer, to be better prepared for the con- firmation, it was soon noised abroad that Porter had "got religion," and that Mason had reached perfec- tion. The students were not surprised to hear anything of the sort about Edward, but they could scarcely " .   124    TE BOY Wio WAS TRAINED believe it possible that the flippant and scoffing Pot. ter had been induced to take such a stand. He wna iried and tormented in various way, but he continued steadfast in his purpose. I think I should certainly fail, Mason,"- he said, one day, when a laugh had been raised at is expense, "if I did not remember how manfully you stood it, when we were all against you. Many a tne my con- science has stung me for making sport of you at your prarers." "Oh, never mind that now," answered Edward; God will carry you safely through." The Sunday came. The church was thronged. The students nearly all turned out to witness the cere- mony. The sermon of the Bishop was eloquent and stir- ring; and if any had felt disposed to turn back, their fears and misgivings were banished by the encourage. ment he gave. While the choir sang the hymn, "Soldiers of Christ, arise, And put your armor on," the candidates came forward. A silence, like the grave, pervaded the vast assemblage. The answer to the important question which was to determine the choice cf so many immortal beings for eternity, came forth clear and decided, "I DO." When the Bishop, "after the example of the holy   , TO BE A CLERGYMAN.     125 apostles," laid his hands upon the head of each, and Sepeated the solemn invocation, "Defend, O od, this Thy servant, with Thy heavenly grace, tha4bj may continue Thine for ever, and daily increase in Thy Holy Spirit more and more until he come unto Thy everlasting kingdom," it was felt by all that the PRESENCE of the UNSEEN ONE was there. As Porter and Edward took their seats at the sup. per table that night, some irreverent witling spoke up, and said, ",Well, Porter, have you got any more piety on board than you had this morning?" The young man colored, bit his lips, but made no reply. Edward watched him with interest, and felt thank- ful that he showed so much self-command. Notwithstanding occasional outhursts of this sort, it was evident enough that the stand taken by our friends, and the solemn confirmation service, had made a decided impression for good upon the minds of many. Oaths and vulgar language became less common, and more outward respect was shown for re. ligion. Turner had always felt an interest in Porter, and now he often came in to chat with him. On the Sunday after the confirmation, he was speak- ing of having been present on the occasion, and of the effect which the service had upon him, when turn- ing to Edward, he said, "Suppose, Mason, that you and Porter go with me to church to-night?" ' "I did not know," answered Edward, "that the church was open." "*   ( O, none of your joking," rejoined Turner,(who,-r4. the reader will bear in mind, was a thorough Pres byterian,)taking it all in good humor; "you know very well what I mean." "I am not joking," said Edward; "I spoke what I believe to be true." Turner looked rather astonished, and asked him how he could be so illiberal. "It is not illiberal," he answered. "We should not be charged with unkindness and)bigotry because we speak the truth." "But why won't you go with me?" inquired Tur- ner, not knowing what to make of Edward. "Because," replied he, "I feel that I am commit- ting a sin whenever I go to hear a man undertake to preach, who has no right to do it." "How! no right?" asked Turner, a little nettled, but still not seriously angry. "Why," resumed Edward, "suppose that our clergyman had been taken sick last Sunday, and it was found after the congregation had assembled thatr there was no person to officiate; would any man or any set of men, however good, have been authorized to appoint one to preach and administer the sacra-. ments?" Turner looked horrified at the idea, and answered "No," without hesitation. "Well, then," continued Edward, "suppose that *       '    J V J" Cl . UVJiJU .UILlUX * X .a I although they had no right, they did call upon some. body who could read respectably, and, bore a good character, to act as their minister; would this make him one?"                  , '"By no means," said Turner, not yet discovering the drift of the argument. "Suppose again," remarked Edward, 'that the man thus suddenly elevated to the pulpit, should happen to take a liking to his new business, and should continue to preach for several Sundays longer, would he be any more a valid minister than at first?" "No," answered Turner, as unreservedly as before. "If, then," said Edward, becoming animated as he spoke, "' If, then, such a state of things should go on for years, the congregation tolerating these irreg- ular proceedings, and the man-made preacher contin. uing to hold forth for their edification, would lapse of time make him a regular minister of God?" "Of course not," replied Turner, with great frank- ness. "Then," continued Edward, drawing the conclu- sion from what had been said before, "Then you have pronounced sentence against your own preachers! They were appointed in the days of Luther and Cal- vin, to meet a supposed necessity, and the unlawful proceedings have been continued under different forms until now."   -  LJ JU JV a 'V - ,aI.-- "It has always seemed to me," observed Porter, "although I know but little of theology, that a man would have a much better right to present himself as an ambassador from the United States to the court of St. James or St. Cloud, without having been appointed by the proper authority, than for one to claim to be an ambassador from God without having been called and ordained." Turner was not altogether pleased with the conclu. sion to which the discussion had been brought, but he said, with noble frankness, "I did not know be- fore, Mason, what the views of your church were on this subject. As plausible as your argument appears, it would be hard for me to believe that so many good people may be wrong." "You must not reason in that way,"answered Edward. "Good people may be mistaken sometimes as well as others. I have talked more now than I intended to. Arguments of this sort do little good. But I would like to lend you a book, if you will prom. ise to read it." "With all my heart," said Turner, taking a vol. ume of Chapman's Sermons, which the other handed him. And now, with this finger board in sight point, ing to the "old paths," we leave him for a time, to determine for himself, which road he ought to take   CHAPTERl  XIX. Innocent enjoyments-Manly determination-Unexpected diffi- culties-The. comet-Saturday night in the chapel-Every body astonished, IF my readers should be led to suppose, from the tue, of the last chapter, that our friend Edward now gave himself up to moping and melancholy, or that he spent his whole time in religious discussions, I should be doing him great injustice. He had always , been taught to believe that no persons had so good a right to be cheerful and happy, none so large a license to indulge in the innocent enjoyment of life, as those who had given themselves up to God, "seeking first his kingdom," and " the righteousness" thereof. No student in college engaged more heartily in the cricket-match, and the game of foothall, and the va- rious invigorating sports in which young men are so fond of testing their agility and strength. Edward. felt that while Christians are not of the world, they must live in it, and if they are to accomplish any good, it cannot be by keeping aloof from their fellow men, but by showing, in their example, that obedi-   ence to the rules of the gospel does not unfit them for the diligent discharge of all the duties of life. His disposition was naturally so generous and oblig. ing, that it always cost him an effort to refuse to grant any favor which was asked of him. In small things, however, as well as in great ones; it was his earnest endeavor to do right. Upon a bright, frosty Sunday morning in winter, for example, when the ice was in fine order, he would have numerous applications for his skates. Of course he refused to lend them, and frankly gave as areason, that we had no right to appropriate the hours which God had set apart for himself, in order to attend either to busidess or pleasure, and that he would not encourage such desecration of the Lord's day, in any way or shape. This manly avowal of religious prin- ciple was not the proper course to gain popularity, but it certainly did not cause him to forfeit anybody's respect. The most wicked and abandoned, however they may peak otherwise, cherish a secret admiration for those who have the courage and consistency, in the midst of difficulties and reproaches, to live up to their profession. Edward one day found himself in a very awkward situation, from a cause which seemed, by no possible chance, to lead to such a result. The taste for drawing, to which reference was made in an early chapter of this history, had been cultivated, at odds and ends of time, and he could now wield the   TO BfE A OL  GYMAN.       181 pencil and brush with considerable skill. His class- mates and others occasionally called upon him, to assist them in this way.  One day, he was re- quested as a great favor to paint a comet, with a long and blazing tail, upon a large sheet of paste- board which was brought for the purpose. Some plausible excuse was given for making the request, and Edward suspected no harm. More than a week passed away, and still no tidings of the comet. Suddenly, however, it made its appearance again, at a time and place most unexpected to the artist. When the President had closed the evening devo. tions in the chapel, on a memorable Saturday in Ed- ward's college career, he took up a letter and a roll from the seat beside him, and remarked, in a very serious tone, "Young gentlemen, I have the evi- dences in my hand of a most unprovoked and out. rageous piece of mischief, which has been perpe- trated by some of you, as I have every reason to fear, aud-he affair is of such moment, that the faculty have determined to sift it to the bottom." He then went on to read the letter, as follows. Springwater, Monday, A. M. RESPECTED Sir.-Will you allow a stranger to address you a few lines, about an unnifnnerly hoax, which some of the stu- dents inder your charge have practised upon our unsuspecting, community? I am the teacher of the district school in this     neighborhood. On Tuesday of last week a young man, with green spectacles, called at my lodgings, and introduced him. self as a lecturer on astronomy, asking permission to addres., the schools in this neighborhood upon that subject, and as a farther inducement, said that he had discovered a new theory of comets,-and that his remarks would be illustrated by appron  priate diagrams. Thinking that a lecture upon subjects so in- teresting would gratify my patrons and pupils, I encouraged the enterprise, and persuaded two other teachers to bring their siholars, on the night agreed upon, they consenting to share in the expense. Every arrangement was accordingly made, and our meeting;house was crowded. The lecturer had appeared, at the hour appointed, and a companion took his place as door- keeper, and received an admission fee from each person that entered. The address seemed to some of us to be not a little rambling and disjointed, but I am not sure but that every- thing might have passed off without difficulty, had it not been for discoveries afterwards made. The two strangers having been generously feasted by one of our most substantial farmers, took their departure the same night. The first thing which led us to suspect an imposition, was; finding two or three charts in the pulpit, with which the lecture; had in a manner been illustrated, but which the lecturer in his haste had neglected to carry away. Upon examination, they were found to be two geological charts, with marks upon them, which induced us to suppose that they must belong to your college. The only diagram which relates to astronomy at all, is the one containing the comet. In short, sir, we feel that we have been swindled out of our money, and had our feelings, most grievously wounded. I return the charts, in hopes that you may be able to detect the offenders. Yours, with great respect, JnXREIAn JEntKI1s."   ;TO BE A CLERGYMAN.     1 3. The President having deliberately read the letter; took off his spectacles, and looking around upon the astonished collegians, expressed, in the strongest terms, the indignation he felt at this whole proceed. ing. He then called upon all those who had any. thing to do with the affair, to come. out like honor- able men, and acknowledge it. There was a dead silence. No one moved. All eyes were riveted upon the President. At last, when he had about concluded to postpone any further investigation, until he had again consulted with his colleagues, to the utter amaze- ment of every one present, Edward Mason arose and said, "Doctor, I feel bound to confess that I made that drawing of the comet!" The President looked thunderstruck. "Do you mean to say, Mr. Mason," asked the Dr. with some severity of manner, "Do you mean to say that you were one of the actors in this outrageous proceeding?" "No, sir," answered Edward with promptness and composure, "I drew the diagram at the request of a friend, not having the slightest idea that it would ever be used for an evil purpose." "Although you may have had no hand in the per- formance," continued the President, "and I must frankly acknowledge that I should never have sus- pected you of such an offence against good manners, to say nothing' of common honesty, yet you must know who the offenders are." 12    -   134   THE BOY WiO WAS ThAINED "Really, sir, I do not," responded Edward. The Dr. seemed at a loss how he ought to proceed next, and for the sake of allowing himself further time for consideration, the students were suffered to depart.   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.      135 CHAPTER XX. The home of dissipation-Heroes in a quandary-Green spec- tacles-Innocence at the bar of judgment-Restitution. I MUST beg the reader to accompany me for a few moments to a corner room, in the third story of one of the college buildings, in which two rakish looking youths seem engaged in earnest discourse. Everything about the apartment indicates slovenly habits and reckless extravagance. Books and clothes are scattered in every place where such things could well be bestowed; the table covered with newspapers, and novels, and scraps of themes, and love ditties, the whole strangely mixed up with pipes and tobacco, and a bottle and glasses, which last nafned articles are just doing good service. "I say, Russel," said one, lounging back in his rocking chair, "Mason did play the part of a man didn't he? Let's drink to his health." "With all my heart," answered the worthy thus addressed, helping himself to a fair allowance of the sparkling liquor. "Who would have thought it! Mason is no milk-sop. He is a perfect trump, But *i           ' .   Spencer, is there no danger that he may be coaxed or frightened into preaching?" "Not he," answered Spencer, who had a particular reason, as we well know, for feeling kindly towards Edward, however much they might differ in morals and manners. "t There is not a fellow in college, Russell, whose honor I would sooner trust." "Well, granting all that," said Russell, setting down his empty tumbler as he spoke, "we are in a confounded bad snap, Joe, and I don't see how we can well get out of it." "How so?" asked, his companion, in a startled tone. "t We have nothing to do but to keep our own secrets, and nobody will be the wiser. There goes one tell-tale now," he continued, dragging a pair of green spectacles from his pocket, and throwing them into the fire. "I am thankful that the school-master did not give a more particular description." "I said we were in a bad fix, Spencer," remarked the other, " because the reading of that letter in the chapel this afternoon has put everybody on the alert, and how we are to dispose of so many shillings and sixpences I can't conceive." "I trust they got the worth of their money," in- terrupted Spencer, bursting out into a hearty laugh. "tThe country folks think that lectures arc so im- proving, I hope they were not disappointed this time."   -JLV Dus & vJujbnu x nn *   lo  : That's neither here nor there," exclaimed Rus- sell, somewhat pettishy. "You had better keep down your risible faculties, and help me to contrive a way of getting out of the boggle.. I would not for. a pretty have the authors of the mischief known about college-we should be fairly run to death." "What can't be cured must be endured, as the book of Job has it," said Spencer, filling a pipe, and preparing to smoke. And besides, you are the cause of the whole mischief, Russell.: If you had not hurried off, like a goose, and left the diagrams in the pulpit, all might have been well." "I was thinking too much of the spoils, I will allow," answered Russell," but how can a body have his mind on everything at once?  Next time I'll trust to getting pocket money in some other way." My reader must, by this time, have grown weary of staying in this untidy apartment, listening to such unprofitable discourse, and we will therefore conduct -him to another part of the college premises. The faculty are assembled in the President's room, and Edward is also there. It seemed strange and un- natural to him to be summoned to that place, and upon such suspicious business, but his conscience was clear, and he had nothing, so far as he was concerned, to conceal. "You. acknowledge, Mr. Mason," said the Pro- fessor of Mathematics, looking steadily at our young   188   THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED friend as he spoke, "You acknowledge that you drew that astronomical diagram?" "Yes, sir," answered Edward, waiting for the question which should follow. "For what purpose did you make it?" asked the dignified and deliberate Professor." "To gratify one of the students," replied the young man. "You said this afternoon, Mr. Mason," interrupted the President, who seemed worried at this slow unrav- elling of the plot, "you said that you knew nothing of the purpose for which the drawing was to be used. Had you any suspicion, until the explanation was made in the chapel, that it had been employed in an improper way?" ' None, sir; none at all. No person could possibly have been more astonished than I was," and sincerity and truth beamed from every line of Edward's open countenance as he spoke. ' Well, be so kind as to tell us, then, for whom you made the drawing," said the President, sternly. "I do not feel at liberty to do so," was the reply. The members of the faculty looked one at the other, and there was a pause. I have honestly told you," continued Edward, seeing that he was expected to say something more, "I have honestly told you all that I know of the matter. I am not even certain that the one for whom   TO BE A CLEROYMAN.      139 the diagram was made, had anything to do with the lecture at Springwater. In naming him, I might be exciting suspicion against an innocent person; be- sides, by my own example, I have shown to the authors of the trick, whoever they may be, how I would do, if I occupied their position. I should con- sider that in acknowledging my fault, I had done something towards repairing the injury." His course was so manly and straight-forward, that he was at once dismissed, without further examination. Edward had hardly reached his room, before Spen- cer, who had been anxiously looking out for his re- turn, came in, and heartily thanked him, for the con- siderate and magnanimous course he had pursued. Our young friend showed plainly, both in manner and word, that he was by no means pleased, and told the lecturer on astronomy what he thought of his conduct. Indeed, he so thoroughly convinced Spencer that the proceeding was neither witty nor wise, but down- right dishonesty, that upon consultation with Rus- sell, the money was returned to Mr. Jenkins, with an humble apology. And here ended what threatened6to be a most dis- agreeable and painful affair. ;   "O    THE BOY WHO WAS$ TRAINED CHAPTER XXI. Holidays-Lucy Mason-Family dinner-An old friend-Pae-, tor's watchfulness--Advice and encouragement-Firstcommu- nion. PORTER'S parents died in his infancy, and having no nearer relative than a cousin of his father's, wlio acted as his guardian, he gladly accepted Mr. Mason's invitation to spend at least a part of the long vaca- tion with his son. Being the heir to property enough to make hiai independent in his circumstances, he had already travelled a good deal, so that it was really a treatfor him to have an opportunity of throwing off all care, and settling down in (quietness and peace. Although I have been too much occupied in trac- ing the course of events at college, to look after the affairs of our friends elsewhere, most of them had been enjoying a reasonable share of health and pros. perity. When the young collegians reached Mr. Mason'a they found the family expecting then; indeed so ex- actly hadIthey been able to calculate the time of theirl   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.      '141 arrival, that dinner was on the table when they drove up. Lucy had nf w finished her education, according to the ordinary nowJns of society. Her parents, how- ever, had their own opinions on the subject. Instead of looking upon herself as fully accomplished in every- thing, she was taught to consider the foundation, as 'laid upon which the superstructure must be raised. Accordingly, a certain portion of time each day, was devoted to study and to general reading. Edward, who had actually known but little of his sister since his childhood, owing to her absence at school, was astonished to find how readily she adapted her conversation to the tastes of her company, and that even the favorite topics of learned collegians were not altogether beyond her depth. The weeks of the holidays seemed fairly to fly What with riding, and walking, and visiting, and reading, and-the pleasant chat after tea, the time slipped away ere they were aware of it. Before the vacation was quite over, who should make his appearance but Henry Parish? He had been hoping, all summer, that Edward would come down to the city, but finding that he had no such intention, the young merchant took a play- spell himself.  "You would hardly know Frank now," he said to Mrs. Mason, as they sat at the dinner table. "He   "2   THE BOY WHO WAS TAITNED has got to be quite a staid, dignified old gentleman and sticks to business bravely."      i ( One would think that Edward and yourself were becoming advanced, too," replied his aunt, with I smile: "When you left us, you were both engrossei with that very important affair, the rabbit warren I don't think that either of you have referred to the subject since you came." "O yes, mother," said Edward, "it was one of the first places I visited, and it reminded me some what of the remains of the ancient Roman walls-it Britain, so completely had our work gone to ruin That was enough, of itself, to show me that I wal growing older." "A very venerable old man, truly," remarkec Lucy, who was helping the company to strawherries "almost sixteen!" "By the way, uncle," asked Henry, where iil Tom Hall now " " "( He still continues at the bindery," answered Mf Mason. "I think I never saw a greater change it any one, for the better, than in him. He has cer tainly tried, faithfully, to keep his baptismal vow.' "Has he been confirmed?" inquired Edward wh wohdered at himself that he had not thought to asl the question before. "t Yes," returned his mother, "I thought I men tioned it in one of my letters. He was confirmed i4   T To BE A OCLERYMAN.      143 Jilyi at the same time with your sister, and Mr. Wilson's eldest daughter, whom you saw baptized at the, mill." "How strangely things turn out!' said Lucy. "Who could have believed that the little Sunday School would do so much good?" I think I was as much benefited as anybody," interrupted Henry, who was as good-humored as ever. "I was first knocked into my senses by that fall from Tom's horse, and then the school sobered "e down still more." "A very profitable fall, indeed," said Lucy laugh. ing, "and it is a great pity that every wild blade could not have a ride behind a miller's boy," : And thus they talked on, raking up reminiscences from the past, and forming plans for the future. Mr. Palmer came out and passed a day with them. he had been prepared to expect a decided growth in Edward's mind, from the occasional letters received from him, and the reports he had heard from others. It was a gratification to find that mixing with the world, (for a college is a world in miniature,) had not robbed him of his gentle manners, nor impaired at all his religious sensibilities and tastes. The good man took occasion to speak to Edward in private, in regard to the ministry, and mentioned a course of reading which it would be best for him to pursue, in order that he might begin the study of   LnZZ     - JDv X nAUV VA TAO 'XLCUALJLI J theology, at the proper time, to the best advantag. Although I have said little on the subject, I wish it to be distinctly understood that Mr. and Mrs. Mason, and their worthy pastor, had been very particular, from the first, to impress upon Edward's'mind, the solemn responsibility assumed by those who conse- crate themselves to God's service in the holy ministry. They felt how wrong it was to regard this office as ranking merely as one of the liberal professions, such as medicine or law. Viewed in this improper light, the desire of gaining an influential position, or of being able to act a conspicuous part in the world, might prompt the vain and the ambitious, to become clergymen.  But these devout parents, and this conscientious pastor felt, that in directing Edward's mind to this sacred calling, they must depend wholly upon the influences of the Holy Spirit, to fit him for the work of faith and labor of love, in the gospel; and to this end, they offered up many earnest prayers. They knew that the commission to minister at the altar, must come from the Bishop's hands, but that the inward grace is the gift of God alone. The young people were looking forward to the next Sunday, with no little interest and thoughtful. ness, as they expected then to have their first com- munion. No opportunity had been afforded before the close of the college term, and, as Mr. Palmer observed,    JLV J A UlUJtJ mAUL.      JtU !.There is nothing lost, as a general rule, in allowing -a short interval between the different ordinances of the church."   He disapproved of the plan of hurrying through with baptism, and confirmation, and the Lord's supper, all within a day's time, or even of several days.  Our three daily meals for the suste- nance of the body are not taken at once, but after proper seasons of labor and rest. As the sacraments of the church are means of grace for the soul, their benefits will bemuch greater,  if proper preparation be made before the reception of each. Nearly all the persons in the congregation had been to the altar, and still our friends lingered. One seemed to be waiting for the other.   Porter would not think of going without Edward, and he, perhaps, thought that his sister should set the example. "Oh! agony of wavering thought, When sinners first so near are brought, 'It is my MAKER-dare I stay ? My SAVIOUR-dare I turn away?' "* Mrs. Mason whispered a word of encouragement to Lucy, when she rose at once, and Porter and Ed- ward followed. " Sweet, awful hour! the only sound, One gentle footstep gliding round, Offering by turns, on Jesus' part, The cross to every hand and heart." * Keble's Christian Year.    "6    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED CHAPTER XXII. Errors corrected by study-Dr. Miller-The whole truth- -Proof-Economy and meanness--Janitor's widow-Choos- ing a profession-A fair promise-Painful partiig. COLLEGE life is, upon the whole, so uniform and monotonous that it would not be necessary for me to follow Edward through his course, even if the time and space were allowed me. I must therefore crowd the remaining period into a comparatively small compass. This being Porter's last. year in college, he became more studious than before; and most of his leisure time was spent in reading. Edward thought it a pity that a young man of such decided abilities, should enter the over-stocked professions of law or medicine, while the church stood so. much in need of clergymen. He did not, however, make any abrupt proposals to him, but contented himself with lending him some biographies, and other works,which had left their impress upon his own mind. The mention of books reminds me of Turner. He   TO BE A CLERGaYMAN.        147 returned the volume of sermons, at the beginning of the session, and professed to be greatly pleased with Dr. Chapman's candour, and the skill and ability which he brought to bear upon his subject. "There is a question now, which I wish to look into," said he, "and I would be glad, Mason, if. you would borrow the necessary books for the purpose." "What question is that?9 inquired Edward. "It is," answered Turner, "whether Dr. Miller really published garbled extracts from the fathers, in the way he is accused of doing.* If this could be proved, it would be a pretty convincing argument that the cause must be a desperate one which is obliged to resort to such dishonorable means." * In the midst of the storm of indignation stirred up against the author upon the first appearance of this book, he received a letter from a distinguished clergyman of the church, whom he had never seen, which contained this testimony: "I was for nine years a Presbyterian minister. I studied at Princeton. Dr. Miller's dishonest effort to depreciate the early fathers, be- cause of the testimony they give in favor of Episcopacy, created the first, though temporary, doubts I ever had, respect- ing the divine origin of Presbyterianism. Several years after- wards, when carefully examining the whole question, I was surprised and shocked, at the palpable and extraordinary dis-- honesty of the Doctor, in garbling the quotations fromIgnatius and others, so as to make them say directly the contrary to what they really say. His followers generally, having never looked into the subject, and not wishing to see both sides, do pot believe that their champion could have been so wicked!"   "8   THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED 'I will get the books with pleasure," said Ed- ward; " and, although I cannot answer from my own examination, I have often heard others say, who cert tainly had the best opportunities for knowing, that the charge is not at all exaggerated."  "I must see for myself," remarked Turner. "Dr. Miller is a great man with us; and nothing but in- disputable proof, presented to my own eyes, will con- vince me. Besides, since I studied logic, I have learned to be more wide awake, and not to take mere assertions for arguments, even though the author does refer you to a long string of scriptural texts at the bottom of the page. He might make as much show of proof in this way as he chose, inasmuch as few would take the pains to look into the Bible to verify the passages." Edward made it his business to ask the loan of the books from the rector. What effect a further inves- tigation had upon Turner's mind, I may have occasion hereafter to state. In the mean time, everything about the college was going on as usual, some wasting their opportunities in idleness and dissipation, whileothers were usefully en ployed. I must not forget to mention an occasion in which Edward was rather unjustly accused of mean- poss and parsimony. The literary society to which he belonged determined to fit up the room in which their meetings were held, in a style of greater luxuriance.   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.      149 When they came to Edward, expecting, as usual, that he would subscribe liberally, he declined giving anything for the purpose. They could not account for this "economical fit," as they called it; and some even ventured to charge him with being miserly. He told them plainly that for all useful purposes the old society room was everything that could be desired; and that the lavish expense which they proposed to bestow upon it, seemed to him a sin. The committee went off dissatisfied, and looked sour at him for weeks afterwards. It was nearly a year before it was accidentally discovered that it was Mason who had, all this time, been paying the largest share towards the support of Mrs. Phillips, the janitor's widow. She had been left in utter destitution, with a crippled boy to add to her anxieties, and lessen her ability to work. No doubt our young friend had his own satisfaction in the consciousness of having done his duty. As the Commencement approached when Porter was to graduate, Edward, who had watched him most anxiously during the year, and never forgotten him in his prayers, spoke to him one day upon the subject which was so near to his heart. "You, of course, agree with me in the opinion," said he, " that a man ought to turn his abilities to the best account?" 13*   150    THE O3Y WHO WAS TBAINED f{ Certainly," answered Porter, wondering what Was to follow so sage a remark. "To the best account," continued Edward, "with reference -to this world and the next." "There can be no question of it," said Porter, still uncertain what the other was driving at. "Which profession, then," asked Edward, "do you think most likely to accomplish this lnd?" "That depends entirely upon what a man is cut out for," said Porter, parrying the subject, of'which he now began to get an inkling. "But I mean," answered Edward, becoming more earnest, "other things being equal, and a person mor. ally and intellectually qualified." "The ministry, I suppose," said Porter, half reluc- tant to own it. "Then, Porter," continued Edward-his soul speaking in every line of his countenance, "why, won't you devote your energies to this work?" Porter hesitated-began to say something, and- then checked himself. "It would be wrong in me, Mason," he said, re- covering his self-possession, "to lead you to suppose that I never thought of this subject before. While reading the life of Henry Martyn, I not only wishe a hundred times that I was a good man, but that I might be a minister." "And what is to prevent?" asked Edward, too   TO BE A OCLEIYMAN.      151 anxious to carry his point to waste many words. "You are your own master, so far as one can be. Why not resolve to be a minister 7" It is too great a responsibility to assume without much more reflection than I can give to it now,' an- swered Porter. "Moreover, you know, Mason, that I have a scheme on foot for visiting Europe. I can do this without inconvenience; and tutor Davies has agreed to go with me." Edward was well aware that such a tour, to a mind so thoroughly prepared, would be of decided advantage to his friend, even should he conclude to study theology. He therefore used no arguments to dissuade him, but made one request,' to which Porter cheerfully acceded: this was, that he would continue to think of the ministry as a profession in which he might, very likely, be more useful than in any other; and that he would pray daily for instruction and guid. ance, as to what he ought to do. Commencement day arrived. Porter acquitted him. self with great credit. Then came the usual bustle of packing up, and preparing to leave town. I must draw a veil over much of this. Porter was to remain for a few days longer, waiting for his travel- ling companion, the tutor. Edward took his place in the stage. "Don't for-   152   THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED get me, Mason," said his friend, shaking his hand again and again, and trying to hide his emotions. Edward was unable to speak. His swimming eyes told the depth of his affection. He returned the warm pressure of the hand, and continued to look back at Porter till, the stage passing into another street, he was hidden from his sight. X            - ,   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.       158 CHAPTER XXIII. Junior year-New chum-Unruly freshman-A good friend- Little southerner-Christmas holidays-Troubles in the dis- tance-Sudden summons-House of mourning-Another blow. WHEN Edward returned to college at the begin. ning of the junior year, it seemed strange enough not to find Porter in his accustomed seat. The room was hardly like the same place. Something was lacking. Edward was not, however, left in solitude. The new freshmen class being large, he was obliged to have a room-mate. This choice of chums is a lottery; but Edward was extremely fortunate. David Patterson, from Missis- sippi, a boy of about fourteen, was placed under his wing. The little Southerner was so home-sick for a few days that Edward exerted himself to make him feel more at his ease, and form a favorable impression of college life. David in turn, soon became much attached to him, and would do anything in the world, that he thought would please him. \   The freshmen class was if possible, more wild and ungovernable than usual; and every effort was made to entice David, into mischief. He had, however, too much respect for Edward to do what he knew would grieve him; and our young friend took advantage of this good feeling on David's part, to try to teach him to act rightly from a better motive-love to God. He had brought a Bible and Prayer-book with him, which his good mother had placed in his trunk with her own hand. These Edward encouraged him to use; and whenever he found him forgetful, gently reminded him of his neglect. He always took care that David should go with him to church. As there was no stated service very near Mrs. Patterson's, her son had but little more than a traditional acquaintance with the church of his fathers. He did not, therefore, feel that warm attachment for it which is peculiar to those who have been care- fully trained up in her holy ways. Besides, David was rather absent-minded and dil- atory. It was really diverting, while the last bell was ringing for service, and Edward standing with his hand on the door latch, to see the little freshman, with one boot on, looking for the other in every nook and corner of the room, or ransacking a large bag of dirty linen to find a- collar or handkercheif, which would answer to use.       ,    TU I JSA UlAij&IlUAn.    ALU itUpon the whole, the new friends got on admirably; anditwould have gladdened the widow's heart(David's father was dead,) to have seen her son following the guidance of one whose character was so, worthy of imitation. Edward occasionally received a letter from Por- ter. At the last account he was preparing to leave France for Italy. He appeared much delighted with his tour; but it was plain from his manner of writing, that his old friends were by no means forgotten. When the Christmas holidays came, Edward took. David home with him. It was very considerate in him to do so; for the youth was poorly calculated by disposition or habit to make the best of quietness and solitude. During this week of happiness, a very important event took place. Tom Hall, who had grown up to be an industrious and thriving young man, was mar- ried to Eliza Wilson, one of our early acquaintances at the mill. Mrs. Mason, who felt an interest in both of the parties, gave the bride her wedding-dress. But the vacation was not altogether a happy one to Edward. His sister's-altered appearance alarmed him. She had a hollow cough and a sunken eye, which betokened no good. He did not like to mention his fears to his parents, lest it might distress them. They did not seem. to  observe the change, and Lucy herself was as cheerful as usual.    v  - m  - .   .  i  *     . It was with a heavy heart that Edward went bae to college. He feared something which he did not venture to dwell upon, even in his own mind. Now and then during the winter, his mother would mention in her letters that Lucy had a bad cold, or had been quite unwell for a few days; but still there was nothing alarming. Towards the close of the session a message came, in haste, for Edward to return home. He made arl speed; and as he rode up the lane, the gloomy appear- ance of everything about the house prepared him for the worst.  Lucy had died that morning! Mr. Palmer met him at the door, and remained with the afflicted family during the day.  Happy for them they had learned long ago where to look for help in trouble; nor did they look in vaim Lucy's disease had developed itself very rapidly; and, before her parents were aware of her danger, she was far gone with consumption. It was a sad and crushing blow: but there was nercy mingled withjudgment-a cheering light shone through the open portals of the grave. She had fallen asleep in Jesus.  Her remains were deposited in a little graveyard not far from the house. The tomb-stone may be seen there now--omewhat -               ..  ...   $   :W . and whether-beaten indeed, but bearing still the simple inscription "UCY MASON. "Blessed are the dead who did in the Lord." Troubles seldom come single-handed. Mr. Mason had others yet in store. His wife had observed for some time past that he appeared restless and gloomy; but she attributed it altogether to the state of their daughter's health. The truth came out at last. Mr. Parish had failed, and involved his brother-in-law, who had been his en- dorser, to a large amount. I have often thought how much practical wisdom St, Paul has shown in that magnificent chapter which is read in the burial service. Even while speaking of death and the resurrection-lifting the mind above the cares and sorrows of life, by revealing the "bless- edness of immortality-he still remembers that we have something to do on earth, and calls upon us, while weeping over the graves of the loved and the lost, to be "steadfast, unmovable-always abound- ing in the work of the Lord."' "Though nearly stunned and stupefied by the sud. deness and greatness of these afflictions, Mr. Mason placed all his trust in God.  He called to mind the gracious words: "As a ftther chasteneth his son, so the Lord thy God chas- "   teneth thee." "Whom the Lord loveth, he chasten- eth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth." Sustained by these assurances, and feeling that it was his duty as an honest man to meet his pecuniary embarrassments with resolution, he prepared himself for the worst. He at once placed all his property in the hands of the creditors, and made arrangements to return to the city in order to begin anew. His course was so high-minded and upright, that generous friends stepped forward, and offered to re- lieve him from his difficulties. He felt grateful for their kindness, but thought it best to decline. Mr. Mason could have borne his loss of property with less difficulty had it not been for anxiety upon his wife's account, and his regret that Edward's, edu cation must be seriously interrupted. In the course of a month they had taken leave oi their home, and engaged private boarding in the city. Mr. Mason found no difficulty in re-establishing himself in business, and proposed that his son should go back to college. Edward, however, could not think of being a tax upon his father, in the present, crippled state of his affairs; and unknown to either of his parents, had written to Mr. Palmer to find him a place in a school.  A situation was fortunately obtained; and the boy who had never known the meaning of want, went forth to buffet with the world.     'U. W B A OLERGYMAN.     159 CHAPTER XXIV. Light and darkness--Young teacher-Making the best of circum- stances-Gratifying present-Again at college-Tidings from abroad-Taking a degree,-Difficulty removed. IT is comparatively easy to trust in God, and to love Him, when all is sunshine. Blessed is the man who, amidst the dark and dismal night of adversity, is enabled, like holy Job, to "hold fast his integrity." - Edward became assistant teacher in an academy, where a salary was allowed him which would defray his necessary expenses, and enable him to lay by something for future use. His intention was to keep up with the college classes by studying at night and in Saturdays; and thus be prepared to go back and spend the last term, and graduate. It was no easy matter, when wearied with the day's labor, to sit down to pursue his own studies at night; but resolution will enable one to do almost anything.  Edward did not consider it lost time, by any 7 means, to take his regular exercise, and accordingly ie walked several miles a day, be the weather what it might. In this way he was able to endure an   i LU   THR BSU WIU WAJ1 TtLAinA U amount of mental exertion which would otherwie have broken him down in a few months, or shattered, his constitution for life.         - David Patterson wrote to him, every few weeks, and kept him fully acquainted with the state of affairs at college. Porter was also quite thoughtful in the way of letters. Sometimes Edward feared,from the interest he ex- pressed in worldly vanities, that his spiritual being must be at a low ebb. At others, his hopes were raised by indirect but unmistakable evidences that his heart was-right with God. Although Edward had no particular fancy for teach- ing, he entered into the spirit of his new vocationi and soon began to take a real pleasure in it. The boys were won by the kindness of his manner; and even those who had been looked upon as dolts and dunces, woke up surprisingly. Without compromising his dignity in the least, their young teacher encouraged their sports, and often appeared upon the play-ground, to watch a game;of ball or cricket. One day a package, directed to Edward, was left at the academy. Upon opening it, he found a book ac- companied by a note, to this effect: "Mr. Mason will please accept this specimen of book-binding from Thomas Hall."  Edward was surprised to find that the volume ciiO -   -(" 4 -V, DJ. ^ i^. j rA A I^'J. 1rA , .  J&. sWte4 of a series of church magazines, which had once bteonged to his father. He learned afterwards by inquiry, that when the family library was sold at auc- -tio n -in town, Tom had bought these loose numbers, ?-probably the largest investment his means would permit him to make-with a view of presenting them to one of the best friends of his youth. Such little attentions, paid to those in adversity, are always gratifying. The world is so apt to look coldly upon the unfortunate, that anything which exhibits true sympathy and affection, is worthy of note. The six months which Edward proposed to devote to teaching, had now worn away. During this time, he had saved enough to-enable him to resume his place at college, and finish his course. Accordingly, at the beginning of the spring term of the senior year, he was reinstated in his old room. IMany kind greetings awaited him upon his return; and David was too glad to contain himself. He had sadly missed Edward's brotherly care; and sundry difficulties, in which he had been involved, were owing to this cause. While our young friend was busy in preparing his speech for Commencement, a letter arrived from Porter. He had seen most of the prominent objects of in. terest on the continent, and had got as far as Londou on his way home. "   162    THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED "I long, once more," he writes, "to behold my native land. The old world has much to be proud of-much which ought to please. I have not gone about with green spectacles on my eyes, grumbling at everything I saw. Whenever praise was due, I have been free to award it, no matter where, or to whom. But I can now enter more fully than before into the spirit of the old song, 'Home, sweet home. "I have attended all forms of worship, Mason, from the glittering, tawdry doll-worship, which disgusts one in Italy, to the dry, hum-drum crudities of, Ge. neva; but give me the time-honored, dignified, im* posing services of our old church-the church of the Redeemer." A few days after, another letter was received, stating that he would sail from Liverpool in the packet; and what pleased Edward better than all, Porter referred to the ministry in such a way, that little doubt was left of his intention to begin his theo. logical course as soon as he reached New York. There had been much in college life to make Ed- ward attached to it; but he could hardly be said to be sorry when he had taken his degree. He felt, as most young men in this country are wont to do, that there was a great work before him in the world; and that, as the day would not last long, the task should be begun early. /    TO BE A CLERGYMAN.      10o W:There was one serious obstacle in the way of his entering the Theological Seminary the next autumn- tle want of means. The money he had earned by teaching was barely enough to enable him to pay off his liabilities at college. He could, indeed, resort to the same honorable mode of raising funds as before; and this he had resolved, in his own mind, to do. Mr. Mason had made a good start in business-; -but with the debts which remained unpaid, and the expenses of living, he had really nothing to spare for his son, just now, even if Edward would have ac- cepted it. Mr. Palmer did not 'like the idea of his losing more time in teaching, and urged him to accept a scholarship, which he could secure for him at the seminary. Edward's natural independence revolted at the idea. Mr. Palmer told him, frankly, that it was only false pride to take such a view of the matter. "Are the young men who are educated at West Point, at the expense of the nation, degraded at all," he asked, "in the public estimation or their own, because the government feels the need of raising up competent officers for the army, and furnishes the necessary means? And why is it at all more unbe- coming, that candidates for the ministry, who are to be leaders in the host of God's chosen ones, should be educated at the expense of the church, in whose irvice their lives are to be spent?"     r,', C  --    '7 --,"?--: *wAfCj A Edward could not resist the force of {he reasoning, and after a little more reflection, gladly accepted th offer. "But there is one thing more which troubles me," said Edward. "I hope you will not think me foolish." "What is it?" inquired Mr. Palmer, with some anxiety of manner. "Although I have been trained up from my child. hood,' answered Edward, "with a view to the min- istry, i feel strange misgivings, whenever I read that solemn question in the ordination service: 'Do you trust that you are inwardly moved by-the Holy Ghost to take upon you this office and ministration?"' "It i not at all surprising," observed Mr. Pal. mer, c that a sense of unworthiness should oppress you.: For no man. that considers what a clergyman ought to be, and do, can help crying. out with the apostle, ' Who is sufficient for these things F" '"I have, heard various preachers," said Edward. "speak so confidently of having been called of God to the work, that it has made me doubt whether I should be doing right in pursuing the course which is proposed."  "Such prating, my young. friend," answered Mr. Palmer, "is not worth listening to. As these per- sons have no outward commission to entitle them to preach, they fall back upon an inward call. I   TO BE A  IEROGYMAN.     ltO might seem harsh in saying what I really think of their conduct." "How do you understand that question then," asked Edward, " which has troubled me so much?' "Good Bishop White," said Mr. Palmer, I' who was one of the most prudent and conscientious men that the church has ever had, gives a very satisfac. tory and encouraging explanation of it. As the ex-, tract is short, I will read it^: 'If a man desirous of the ministry, should believe, on an honest inquiry into his heart, that in sincerity-although, doubtless, mixed with imperfection-he is desirous of discharg; ing his duty to God and man; -if he should not be sensible of any known sin, that cuts him off from the benefits of the Christian covenant, and ought, there- fore, to bar him from the ministry; if he do not feel himself prompted, either by the love of gain, or by the love of honor-although, under the former head, he may lawfully look, with moderation, to the supply of the wants of himself and of his family; and under the latter, he may enjoy any reputation which may be brought to him by his talents, giving theglory to God, and not bearing himself with arrogance to men;--and, finally, if he should be sensible of a di- rection of mind interesting him in whatever extends the kingdom of grace, and fits men for the better kingdom of glory; such an inward character, satis- factorily perceived by those to whom the church has   aLW   'L'J1 JDUX WO tLV WAO W JLAJD JiJUV committed the right of judging of the sufficiency for the undertaking generally, may be counted as an evidence of that moving by the Holy Ghost, which the service. holds out as so important.' "* "Thank you, sir,"'said Edward, as Mr. Palmer laid down the book. "That opinion of Bishop White relieves my mind of a heavy weight. He was such an extremely cautious man, that he would give no ad- vice which was not well worthy of consideration." "I am glad to hear you say so," answered his friend. "It is certainly the only true vviw of a .call to the ministry, in the ordinary dealings of Provit dence. In any other sense, angels, and not men, must be appointed for this work." * Bishop White's Commentaries on Ordination Offices, vii. 16. l '  T  . I    \  ,                 CHAPTER XXV. , School of the prophets-The special prayer-Choice of a parish church-St. Peter's Sunday-school-Private devotions-Myes terious Providence-Brand plucked from the burning. IT was ten o'clock, on a bright October day, that the bell of the General Theological Seminary, in: Chelsea Square, New York city, summoned the stu. dents to prayers, on the first morning of the term. Dr. Turner, (the Dean for that year,) who, for nearly a quarter of a century, had drawn from his varied stores of learning for the instruction of hun- dreds, since called to do their Master's work, came from the vestry, and began the service. A sweet-toned organ lent its aid in the chants and psalms, and the responses were made with a hearti- ness and emphasis which could only proceed from a lively interest in the worship of Almighty God. ' The whole body of students had' not as yet re. turned; but among those present we notice three well. known-friends-Mason, Porter, and Turner.   There they stand, or kneel, in response and prayer, "with one heart, and one voice, glorifying God." -                  Among the supplications, one strikes the ear witf peculiar force-a supplication applicable to -thi place: We implore Thy blessing on this Seminary, in* stituted with a view to the same ministry of the Gos- pel. May the hearts and hands of Thy people be open with supplies for carrying-the design into effect; may the trustees and professors be endued with fidel- ity and wisdom, and sustained by Thy providence in the discharge of the duties respectively committed to them. May the pupils be favoured with health for the prosecution of their studies, and preserved by Thy grace from all temptation to relaxation of indus- try in the pursuit of knowledge. Strengthen in them the good desires which have been excited in them by the inspiration of Thy Holy Spirit, and impress on their minds a sense of the high origin, the salutary tendency, the awful duties and responsibilities, and the rich rewards of the Gospel Ministry. Endue them with humility in the pursuit of truth, and with zeal and steadfastness in the profession of it. Preserve them from prejudice, and from whatever else that may betray their understandings into error, or their hearts into sin. May they be useful in their generation, to the increase of Thy glory, and the edification of Thy Church; and may they at last receive the com- mendation of faithful servants from the Great Shep- herd and Bishop of souls, Thy Son Jesus Christ, our - i   AV #aX A, VJUVI .UI!JL'A. . JL UV oyr4, ii whose name, and through whose prevailing grits, we offer up these our imperfect prayers." The preliminary examinations were soon over, and our friends settled down to hard study. A theological course-aside from the interest which the sacred ministry must always excite in those who * are looking forward to its responsibilities-is most pleasing and profitable. A large and valuable library was open for the use of the students, and many of them seemed fully to appreciate the privilege. It is hardly necessary for me to say that Turner's investigations, before he left college, had fully satis- fied him, in the point of controversy which had dis- turbed his mind; but now, with such ample resources at command, he was able to go to the fountain-head, and examine to his hearts content. Mr. Palmer had advised Edward to connect him. self with some parish in the city, and to take a class in the Sunday School. We have so many churches in New York, that a person who should make it a practice of yielding to curiosity, and go around from place to place, could only worship at each church about twice a year This constant change has a bad effect upon the mind; besides depriving one of that positive and pa.- ticular interest in the growth and -prosperity of the church, which is secured by attending, as a general thing, the services in the same parish.   170    THi tOYT W   WA9- TWA XNED Ediard acoisdingly madechoice of St. Peter'sa being the most convenient, and took an early opi tunity to call upon the rector, and offer hif servie, in the Sunday School. This proposal was gladlyac. cepted. Although the prayers of the church were offered daily in the chapel, morning and evening, Edward did not alter his plan for private devotions. A sys fematic reading of the Scriptures, and certain fixed times for prayer, were continued as before. A few days after Christmas, an unexpected viAitoz arrived. This was none other than David Pattergon, He had availed himself of the holidays to ui down and take a look at the great city. The-iat person he ferreted out was Edward, with whom he had continued to correspond. His old friend was delighted to see him, and pat himself to considerable inconvenience, in order to show David the lions of the metropolis. The collegian still had many hours of leisure, which he spent with members of the society to which he belonged, who are always glad to recognise a brother from another branch. This intercourse, besides the pleasure it afforded David, was the means of putting Edward in the way of doing good. It happened, that in conversation one day, David was asked whether he had known Joe Spencer in   e a; u B .E- CtLERGYMAN.    17 llege. He answered that he had not, inasmuch as he left before his time; but that the memory of that young gentleman was quite fragrant there, even now. One thing led to another, till the whole story leaked out. Hi. Spencer had been sent off in disgrace; and much to the distress of his friends, had gone to sea. They traced him as far as Nantucket; and from thence, it appeared, that he shipped in a whaler. Nothing more was heard of him for a long time, until very recently, one of his old college acquain- tances, passing by the "Sailor's Home," saw a poor, foprlorn-lobking object, sunning himself upon the steps. The countenance seemed familiar, and the young man $Stopped. It was Spencer I Wasted and weakened by disease, he had just JeAen able to reach the port, and seek samission to hthis place. Poor fellow! His folly and wickedness had cost him health, and friends, and all!  His broken-hearted, widowed mother, had been laid in the grave. , A pale-faced, frail, affectionate sister, who used to r welcome his return from college, had gone insane, and was an inmate of the asylum. David no sooner told this sad tale to Edward, than :they both set off in haste, to look after the poor, shipwrecked one.   172   THE BOYi WRO WAS TRAINED They found him in bed, evidently near his end. Spencer felt that this renewed kindness from one whom he had so shamefully used, was indeed having ,"coals of fire' heaped "upon his head." Edward would not allow him to dwell upon the past, but did all he could to alleviate his sufferings, and prepare him for his great and awful change. Mrs. Mason interested herself in the matter, and by going about among her friends, collected money enough to defray the expenses of the sick-room. Dr. Smith, the Rector of St. Peter's, though in feeble health himself, went with Edward several times; and before Spencer died-being fully con- vinced of his faith and repentanoe-baptized him. How mysterious are the ways of God! The ap- parently accidental visit of David to his frend was the means, in His hands, of saving a soul from deaft! o         .    TO BE-A CLEROGYMAN.      173 a l. CHAPTER XXVI. Election-Excitement-Theological politician-Clergymen not to vote-Bishop White and Bishop Griswold-Greenwich lane-The broken head-Alice's mother. EVEN the comparative quietude of Chelsea Square was disturbed, early one morning, by the voices of zealous politicians, mustering about the polls. Party spirit, never quiet, often-times running high, and bard to manage, now seemed ready to boil over. All classes of the community sympathised, more or less, in the excitement of an important election. 'The newspapers, for weeks past, had talked of little else. Handbills, posted about the streets, invited to caucasses, or advertised for some great gathering in the park. Children were carried away by the enthusiasm of the times; and the ragged chimney sweep, as he hurried along the street, bearing the rude implements of his office, sang a snatch of a new party song, set with skill to some favorite air. Upon an occasion so stirring, who could wonder that the students of the seminary, although occupied 15*   174   THE BO. W'HO-; WAS TRAINED with matters widely different, should feel some inter est in what had crowded out, for a season, all other subjects of discourse  "Come, Porter," said one, thrusting in his head-at the door,-"Come and cast a good Whig vote this morning! I thought at first that I would not go to the polls, but the noise in the street has excited me so much, that I cannot control myself." "You forget that I am a Democrat," answered Porter, looking up from his book. "I will pair off with you, ,if you choose." ' No indeed," said the first speaker, as though it had been proposed to him to sacrifice some dear priv- ilege of his birth-right. "This js my first vote., I was only of age six weeks ago. Are you old enough, Mason?" he continued. "I beg your pardon for not speaking to you before."  "No apology is necessary," returned Edward. "A man so excited as you are, cannot be expected to think of such trifles. I am not old enough to go to the polls, but I should not do. so if this insurmount- able difficulty did not exist." "Why not?" asked the other, in some surprise. This is a most important election, and every vote counts." "Very likely," Edward quietly remarked, "but I have made a rule that I will never mix myself up with politics. Clergymen can find ways enough of   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.      175 l riening their influence with their flocks, without ex- asperating any by such a course." - "There I think you are wrong, Mason,' interrupted Poiter. "Did not Bishop White always vote? and. he is your model." "Certainly the good Bishop did vote," said Edward, "and beginning his ministerial career when he did, he acted for the best. - There is now and then a cris in public affairs, when the clergy are bound to pur. sue the same course, and thus throw the weight of their influence on the side of right. Ant since you ihave seen fit to cite the case of Bishop White, to prove that devout and excellent clergyman do vote,  may as well remind you of Bishop Griswold, a man not less esteemed and beloved, who carried out my 'principle to its fullest extent, saying to the inquisi- tive people who tried to entrap him with political questions, "My kingdom is not of this world." ' "I decided against you too hastily, Mason," said IPorter with his usual frankness. You have opened. a budget of authorities, indeed; and although I am not quite sure that it is altogether inexpedient for ministers to vote, I am inclined to think you are 'right." So saying, he began to turn over the leaves of his "Hebrew Lexicon, as if in haste to make up for lost time, and the theological politician withdrew. The recitations of the day being finished at one   o'clock, the students were scattered about thety, some returning to their homes, while others fre- quented the bookstores, or examined-the odd colec- tion of volumes offered for sale at the stands by the way-side. Edward was going rapidly along through those crooked and unattractive streets and lanes which lead towards Broadway, almost stopped at times by the motley crowd, which the election had gathered, when his ear was struck by the voice of a child, cry- ing out in a tone of alarm, "Do pray, Mr. Mason, do pray cane here to this poor man '" Looking in the direction from whence the sound proceeded, he discovered a little girl standing in the door-way of a low cellar room, which seemed to be used as a sort of grocery. Edward was taken by surprise, at being thus fa- miliarly addressed, but soon recognised in the speaker a scholar whom he had known at the Sunday school of St. Peter's. "What's the matter, Alice?" he inquired in a kind and friendly tone. ' Please come in quick, sir," was her only answer, "nd see whether the poor man is dead." Edward followed her into the dismal apartment, where, although everything bespoke extreme poverty, he discovered an air of tidiness, which it is always gratifying to see. The two small windows were filled with trifling articles for sale, and upon a rude   TV B 'A ULEAUYlMAN. '     Af eOanter cakes, and nuts, and apples were spread out, to tempt the passers-by. A taIle, two or three high-backed chairs, and a bed, constituted the furniture of the room. Around this bed several persons were gathered, at the mo- inent when Edward entered, one of whom was bath. ing the temples of a young man, who lay as it were lifeless in his iams. A woman, who turned out to be the owner of the shop, was bustling about, doing all she could; but evidently too much alarmed to render essential ser- vice. "Run for a doctor, Alice," said Edward, as soon as he saw that the man had been badly wounded on the'head. The child waited for no second- bidding, and soon returned with a physician. In the course of half an hour the man had revived so much, that he opened. his eyes, and looking around with a bewildered air, asked where he was. Edward, who sat by the bed, attending to his wants, instead of answering the question directly, said, "I hope ypu feel better now V" a'Yes, thank you," the man replied; "but kind sir, tell me what place this is." Edward explained to him, in few words, all that he knew of the matter, and in a little while had learned from the stranger his simple story. *& /    '     ---    * - '- * - - ^ -    He was an English gardener, who had landed that morning from a ship, and was going up Greenwich lane inquiring for his sister, who, he had heafd, lived in that part of the city. In making his way through a crowd collected about a tavern door, he received a blow, (probably aimed at some one else,) which left him senseless on the ground. Two or three of the by-standers hoa brought him into Alice's mother's shop, as the most convenient place, and laid him on the bed. "What is. your sister's name?" asked Edward, wondering within himself what must next be done., "Buckley," answered the man. "Harriet Buck- ley. Her maiden name was Parker." "Your name is Parker, then," said Edward, mus, ingly.                   , "Yes, Robert Parker." "Stay here by the bed a few moments; Alice,' said Edward, rising up in haste, 'while I go and look at the directory." t*    *S 9..!'    CHAPTER XXVIL. The'direetory-Lost sister-A stranger in the land-John An. derson--Happy thought-City missionary-Important record -Orphan houses and hospitals-Care for emigrants. ' EDWARD came back before long, but without hav- ing gained any satisfactory information. The wounded man, whom we shall hereafter call by his name Par. ker, had been sleeping quietly for a few minutes, but tow roused up, and inquired, with evident anxiety, as to the success of the errand. "I found your sister's name in the directory," said Edward, in reply, " but upon going to the place designated, I was told by the people in the house that Mr. Buckley's family had removed several weeks ago."  The poor man groaned aloud, and the faint gleam of hope which had lighted up his pale face instantly vanished. "God help me 1" he exclaimed with earnestness. "What can I do?"   Edward begged him not to distress himself, and assured him that by remaining quiet for a few days he would be as well as ever again.    lV -  m A4r4 .a nALVA, a TV TTaV AMNP -dAJ liW&1j1ULt "You should be thankful that your woutid is-iP- worse," he continued, $"and I will tell this god? woman to see that you want for nothing."  "Thank you kindly, sir," said Parker, I felt thati I [as in a land of strangers, when I left the ship! bhis morning; but I find that there are good people everywhere." Having given some directions to Alice's mother, Edward took his leave, promising to come again the next day. The following morning he went to Porter's room it the seminary, a little before recitation time, and: was telling his friend of his adventure on the pre& rious afternoon, when the young man, in his usual; impulsive way, ran down stairs, and sent John Ani- . derson to carry something to Parker at once, intend*; ing to go with Edward to see him, when the lesson of the day were done.             [Who that has been at the seminary at anyperiod  between 1845, (the date of his death,) and a good. many years before, that does not recollect gentle, kind- heartedi obliging John Anderson?] Porter and Edward set off together at the time proposed, and were gratified to find that Parker was. rapidly recovering from the effects of the blow, which had so nearly cost him his life.      I have been thinking of a plan," he observed, as soon as he had answered the kind inquiries which]    were made about his welfare, "I have been thinking a   plan, by which I may possibly be able to get some tidings of my sister. She was such a good  woman, that the first place she would go to, almost, on reaching the city, would be the church." She is a member of the English church, then?" said Edward, hoping that this might indeed be a clew to unravel the difficulty. "Yes, sir," answered Parker, "the Bishop of Winchester confirmed us both." "Porter," said Edward, turning abruptly to his companion, "let us go and inquire of the city mis- sionaries. They may be able to throw some light on this matter." "Agreed," answered Porter, "and if we are suc- cessful," he said, as they walked briskly along, it will be another happy illustration of the closeness of that tie, which binds the daughter to the mother church, and a running commentary upon the article of the Creed on the "communion of saints." Our two friends did not feel as much trepidation, when they reached the door of one of the clergymen whom they proposed to call upon, as they once did, at their visit to a parsonage several years before, an occa. sion which some of my readers perhaps may not have forgotten. ' The clergyman at first did not remember any one by the name of Buokley, answering to the descipp-   182   THE BOY WHbO WAS BRANNED tion they gave; and indeed, it would have beee dt. prising if he had, considering the mixed multitid of old and young, of all tribes and tongues, Witi whom a faithful shepherd will come in contact;'fi the space of a few days. Upon referring to his memorandum book, however this record appeared, "Gies Buckley, and Harrie Buckey his wife, both English, communicants, twc children." "Oh! that's it!" exclaimed Edward, too glad th contain himself. "And where, sir, shall we find then now " The question was much more easily asked thai answered; but having reflected upon the subject fo a few moments, the clergyman remembered that thes people had moved to Staten Island. The young men thanked him for the information and rose to depart, when he drew out his poor-pwrt as he called it, and insisted upon their taking asmal sum towards relieving Parker's present necessities.. "I am sorry that the church does not make mor ample provision for such cases," be said, "but' hope the time will come, when her ministers, a they travel abroad through the world, with a corn mission to do good to the souls of men, may have i in their power to render assistance for their bodil ailments also."' "I have often been struck, sir," remarked Porter   TO 1BE A CLEROYMAN.      183 itIh, some embarrassment of manner, "'with those ,ssages in the New Testament, where our Saviour s described as healing the sick, and curing the lame ind the blind. Do you not think that these acts of kindness opened the hearts of many more readily to receive the truths which he taught?" , Most unquestionably," answered the clergyman, "and you will recollect, my young friend, that the Apostles did likewise." And why, by a judicious expenditure of money in hospitals, and orphan asylums, and other institu- tions of the sort, might not our Divine Master be still present upon the earth, through the agency of his body, the Church, and now, as in the days of his flesh, be "stretching forth His hands to heal?" "I have been thinking," said Edward, who was so much interested in the subject, that he forgot that they had already started towards the door, "I have been seriously thinking, since the case of this poor man was brought to our notice, that it might be a very good plan, in our larger cities, to employ suitable persons to watch about the wharfs, and when foreign vessels arrive, to put into the hands of the emigrants a very brief traot, reminding them that here, as in England, they should look up to the Church as their mother, and consult with our clergymen as friends, in whose advice whether relating to temporal or spir- itual affairs, they could place the fullest confidence."   184   THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED "An excellent suggestion, indeed," said the cler- gyman, shaking hands with his visitors at the door. "I will beat it in mind, and very likely it may be turned to some account." Edward continued to look after Parker's welfare until he had entirely recovered, and within a few weeks' time he had the satisfaction of receiving a grateful message from him, saying that he'had found his sister in Staten Island, and had himself got into a good situation, not far from where she lived. "   TO BE"A CLERGYMAN.      1865 -    CHAPTER XXVIII. Blind asylum-Dangers everywhere-Timely caution-Itching ears-Misgivings and despondency-Bishop Wilson-Field of labor-Recovered blessings. DURING his second year in the seminary, Edward began to read service on Sundays in the Blind Asy- lum. Some of the children had been accustomed to the Prayer-book before; and most of them soon showed  a decided preference;for our mode of worship. The chants delighted them greatly, and a very re- spectable choir was formed; the organ being played by a blind boy. By using the "Selections of Psalms," instead of the Psalter for the day, in a few weeks they had learned enough of the service by heart to respond as well as any ordinary congregation. A short, practical sermon was read at the close of the prayers; and Edward continued to discharge this pleasant duty for many months. I ought to have mentioned, perhaps, that the ser- vice was held at such an hour as not to interfere with 16*   186   THE BOY WHO WAS TaAINED his attendance at church. His class in Sunday School was, of necessity, given up when this arrange- ment at the Asylum was proposed; and it was too important a field of labor to be lost. Although younger than Porter, Edward continued to exercise a wholesome influence over him. No situation in life is without its dangers. Por. ter, had he consulted his own inclinations, would have wandered about, Sunday after Sunday, ahut- ing for the finest music, and the most eloquent preacher. His friend convinced him of the impropriety of sch a course. Indeed, so entirely did he change in this respect, that he at once became a Sunday School teacher in a little mission church which had been lately organ- ised, and did everything in his power to strengthen the hands of the self-denying pastor. Porter, with all his cheerfulness, was subject to occasional fits of despondency. At such times, Edward's conversation was a great comfort to him. He had been reading one day in a Missionary Jour. nal a report from some distant outpost, where a sin- gle-hbnded laborer was wrestling manfully with overr whelming opposition and discouragements. I fear, Mason," he said-his tone of voice show. ing the sincerity of what be uttered-"I fear that I Ing   TO BE A CLERGYMAN.      187 shall never school myself to display such heroism a this."    "Practice," answered Edward, "f nd faith in Him who sends us, will enable even the faint-hearted to do valiantly. I have often been struck with something in my favorite book, 'Sacra Privata,' which I will read if you have no objection." "With all my hearth said Porter. "'I should be glad to hear anything which will help me to gain more confidence. I feel sometimes so wholly un- qualified for the ministry, that it seems worse than folly to go on." Edward, having found the place, began: ' It is happy for a minister of God that the life he is to'lead, and the very outward acts he has vowed to perform, will help to change his heart, and create  in him those dispositions which will make him like his great Master, * * * If his sermons be plain and practical, they will affect his own heart, as well as the hearts of those to whom he preaches. "'Every child he baptizes puts him in mind of the vows that are upon himself. And he cannot admin- ister the other sacrament as he ought to do, but it must needs fill his soul with a thousand holy ideas and devout thoughts. * * In visiting sick and dy. ing persons he will be put in mind of his own mor- tality. * * When he exhorts, reproves, and admonishes Athers, it will bring to his mind the words of the   18 -   THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED apostle, i Thou that teachest another, teachest thlui not thyself?" In short,' if he has an ardent iesre o save souls, and really strives to do it a effectually as he can, he will be beloved of God, and assisted by his Spirit; he will see the fruit of his labor ;he will se- cure his own peace and hope, and give an account with joy when his Lord calls for him."' "Those words are worth their weight in gold," said Porter, when his friend had finished the extract. "They really make me ashamed of myself. Com- mon sense should teach us that if we try our best to do God's work, he will not withhold his blessing." "Have you ever thought," asked Edward, " where you would like to have your lot cast-if such a thing be left to your choice 7" "I should feel bound, of course," answered ]gr- ter, "to go wherever the bishop desired to have me; but of late, I have thought seriously of offering my- self as a missionary for one of the feebler dioceses in the South or West." "That is just my idea, Porter,' said Edward-. "There will always be enough to supply the wants in the older cities and towns; and some must go int' the by-ways if the gospel is ever to spread i "Not only would this consideration influence me," interrupted Porter, "but I think it must be a great satisfaction for one to enter upon a fresh field, and break up the ground, and' plant the seed, and watch.                 .   TO BE A CLERGYMAN,       189 and water it, and wait in patience for the fruits of hs labor." "Great, indeed," said Edward; "'and you remem- ber the blessedness of St. Paul, who built on no other man's foundation." "It may be uncharitable and wrong in me," re. marked Porter, " but I can never look without feel- ings of dislike and pity upon a clergyman, whom I may chance to see resting, as it were, upon his oars, and apparently waiting for a desirable parish to be- come vacant. To think of the amount of work to be done, and any to remain idle!" "I am sorry to interrupt you," said Edward, as the clock of St. Peter's struck five, " but mother will be expecting us to tea; and, as it is something of a walk, we had better start." Mr. Mason had now so far recovered from his pecu- niary losses that he was able to keep house, and ent joy again many of the privileges which he had been obliged to give up; not the least of which was the exercise of a generous hospitality. Edward had resigned his scholarship in favor of a poor student at the end of the first year, and was now living with his parents. The blessings of home only seemed the sweeter, because they had been for a season deprived of them. .'             .   ..'   CHAPTER XXIX. seension day-Dr. Jarvis-Staten Island-Fairy land-The little church-Voice from the garden-Devout congregation -Happy meeting-A cold lunch-Great Western-Haven of rest. THE morning of Ascension day dawned bright and cloudless; and the delightful month of May had brought in her train the mildness and the various forms of beauty, by which her coming is so distinctly marked. "Porter, are you going to hear Dr. Jarvis preach at All Saint's, this morning'?" inquired Turner, as the two students entered the seminary gate, on their return from breakfast. "I did not know that he was in the city," said Porter, "but as much as I would like to attend, I have an engagement with Mason which willprevent." Why, Mason, of course will be going to churh to-day,' answered Turner, "and he may as well go to All Saint's, as any where."  "True enough," said his friend, " but we agreed some time since, should the weather be pleasant, t   TO MS A CLERGYMAN            19 visit Staten Island to-day, and as the sun never shone brighter in the world, there will be no possible ex- cuse. And this reminds me that I must bestir my- self, for I am to call for Edward at his father's. Won't you go with us ?" Turner declined, and Porter set off. As the two friends stood upon the deck of the steamer, while she moved rapidly down the bay, a charming prospect presented itself to view; and wnen they approached Staten Island, diversified with hill and dale, and meadow and woodland, here and there ;asnug cottage, or a beautiful mansion dotting the landscape, it seemed almost like a scene of enchant- ment. " You know my partiality for Robinson Crusoe," said Edward, laughing-;  at least, it is not my fault, if you are not aware of this important fact." Well," answered Porter, "what next ?" thinking, -perhaps, that this taste for De Foe's master-piece was by no means singular. "Nothing," said Edward, "only I am always re- minded of him, when I look upon this lovely spot." "It is certainly a little paradise in its way," re- marked Porter, "and I wish, now, that I had insisted on Turner's coming with us. He has such an eye for the picturesque, that he would have enjoyed it exceedingly." Our friends had started from home so early, that   it was not much after nine o'clock when the boat reached the island, thus affording them ampletim to ramble about; a great treat, certainly, to studet who had been to long confined to the city. An hour or two afterwards, in approaching a little hamlet, em bowered in trees, the sweet tones of a bell attracted their attention, and going on a few rods further, they saw the tower of the church, from which these sounds were wafted on the gentle breeze. "We are just in time for service," said Porter, "and we can thus celebrate the day as we ought, and enjoy our pleasant walk besides. Look, Massou, at that nice garden yonder, beyond the beautiful chateau." The grounds were enclosed by a neat white paling, and a row of tall bushes shut out those parts of the garden from the view, which lay next to the public road. At this moment, a woman in plain and simple dres passed along, leading a little boy; and turning in the *direction of the garden, she called to some one, who seemed at work with a hoe behind the bushes, and said, "Robert, an't you going to church this morning?" To be sure, sister," he replied, "but I have so much work to do, that I shall wait till the bell be- gins to toll before I start." That voice seems familiar to me," said Edward, as they turned up towards the church, "I wonder who the man can be?"   A  0U A IUJ LEShJUAMO.    awq '^vNiaaenie, Mason!" answered  Porter. "But yu are such a wonderful hand to pick up acquaint. awnes, there is no telling but this may be a-friend of yours, and a we are in Robinson Orusoedom, per- haps it is man Friday?" The bell soon began to;toll, and the young men etered the church. It was quite small, and unpre- tending, and only a mere handful of people had as- sembled to honor the day of our Lord's ascension. They had hardly taken their seats before the woman and'little boy came in, followed by a man whom they both recognized as the English gardener, Robert Parker. He saw them at the same moment, and a look of urprise, mingled with pleasure, lighted up his face, but he said nothing, and the service began. -The chants were not sung, and there were not more than a dozen voices, great and small, to swell the responses; but it was evident that there were Aeart engaged, and it was with no mere lip-service that the little congregation said with David, in the appropriate Psalm for the festival, "God is gone p with a shout; the Lord with the sound of a trumpet.  praises to God, sing praises; sing praises unto Kwr  ng, sing praises." The lessons, the gospel and Epistle, the prayers aftd the hymn, everything, indeed, was il perfect keigi; , and carried the mind away to the m ntrti. 17   in Galilee, where Jesus stood for the last time;,witi the disciples, and where they watched Him as He went up into Heaven.' Porter and Edward having no acquaintance with the clergyman who officiated, did not stop to speak with him; but I have no doubt that he remarked to his wife, upon his return home, that two strangers had been very attentive to the prayers, and had ren- dered most essential service. in the responses and singing. The young men stopped in the churchyard, to speak to the gardener, who was delighted to see them, and after grasping them heartily by the hand, he in- troduced them to his sister, who insisted that they should go and take some refreshmient at her house;. Upon their arrival there, they found her husband sitting on the door-step, and although taken by sur- prise to see such a company, he rose at once, and welcomed his guests with plain, honest hospitality. The simple meal was soon despatched, and the af- fair of the election, and the broken head, and the prosperity of Parker and his sister's family, talked over. Edward was glad to hear Parker say that he had been to the city not long before, and brought little Alice to spend the day with them; and that the ehild, thus let loose from the confined and disma eellar-room, had gamboled about the green field with great delight.  ;-    The young theologians at length took their leave, folowed by the kind wishes of their English friends. i' "We must see Rockaway, and the Great Western, before we return," said Edward, trying to hurry Por- ter along in the direction he wished to go. But the day was warm, and they walked slowly, enjoying the prospect as they went.  At last they found themselves comfortably seated! upon the high bank, at the extremity of the island, where the best view of the "Narrows" could be gained, and soon the firing of a cannon from Fort Hamilton attracted their attention, and then the great steamship made her appearance, leaving be- hind a thick volume of black smoke, and as though in haste to reach her distant home, boldly pushed forward into the briny deep. "I never see a ship starting off at full speed," said Porter, " but I think of our voyage upon the troubled sea of life, and the many risks we run, be- fore we can hope to enter the haven where we would be."                      . "The service this morning," remarked Edward, "shows us how we may make that voyage safe and prosperous. Our Saviour has ascended ifto Heaven. How beautiful the words of the collect: 'Grant taat we may also in heart and mind thither ascend, and itoih Him continually dwell!"'  .n    CHAPTER XXX. Pastor's counsels-Early marriages-Romish tendencies-Peril- ous times-Active remedies-Pageant at St. Patrick's-Sharp rejoinders - Seminary commencement- Ordination - Little trunk-First sermon. DURING all this time Mr. Palmer had notforgotten his young friend. He was too busy with his church and parochial school to write often or much, but he never failed to send a friendly letter of advice and encouragement once in three or four months. The reader will thank me for inserting a part of one of them. After speaking of deaths, and other changes among Edward's acquaintances in the parish, he says:- "Tom  Hall continues to be what you left him- a most respectable, deserving young man. He takes an active part in the Sunday School. By the way, perhaps you have not heard of your little namesake, EDWARD MASON HALL. He is a fine boy, and I hope he may grow up for usefulness. "The families about the mill continue much as   TU' ISB A UfltUXJ AC.-{    1 I ' usual. The workmen seem very busy in putting your father's place to rights. I am truly thankful that he was able to recover this property again; and hope, in a few years, or even less time, that I may have him for a parishioner once more. ," I forgot to give you a caution about buying books for your library. Don't be too eager to have a large collection at first. Make choice of good standard works. The lighter ephemeral liteaturp it is very well to dip into, for recreation; but I would not lumber my shelves with it. I make one excepl. tion, in favor of the Waverly Novels. It will bei worth your while to own a good copy. "You will find it an unprofitable inv6etment to lay out much in volumes of sermons. The English ser- mons, especially, are very often an indifferent assort- ment, plucked from the barrel of a deceased curate, for ,the benefit of his widow. You had better fill your head with the good, solid matter which will come in the way of your studies; and draw from this treasury, when you want materials for the pulpit. I am sure my old friend, Dr. Wilson, would give you the same advice. "There is another thing which I wish to speak about. If it should seem presumptuous, you must excuse the liberty, upon the ground of the deep in- terest which I feel in your welfare. ' I am persuaded that no young clergyman should 17*   1LVO    'Ts ZVUX WtU WA 'WKA1JlSU think ofmarriage until he is fairly settled in a parish, with sure prospect of a decent support, without over*. burdening the church.           .' "You will certainly never suspect me of any lean. ing towards the Roman doctrine of clerical celibacy. It has neither reason nor Scripture on its side. .But I must say, that the practice, so common among young men, of forming matrimonial engagements before they have finished their studies, or have any idea where duty will require them to labor, seems the height of folly. I have not heard anything which leads me to suppose that you have such intentions, so that I have spoken with the less reserve." Any advice which Mr. Palmer gave was always regarded by Edward as worthy of notice. From his infancy the good man had watched over him, with all the interest of a careful shepherd, and his attention tad not been thrown away. During the winter and spring of Edward's last year at the seminary, there was much excitement through. out the Union, in regard to the supposed Romish ten- dencies of that institution. The papers, religious and secular, were filled with the subject. The House of Bishops, as a board of visitors, made a special and thorough examination, with a view to discover the truth. It really seemed too bad, that the excellent and   TO BE A M  OYMA.      199 devoted men who filled the severalprofessorships with such'universal satisfaction, and whose characters were above reproach, should be obliged to vindicate the soundness of their doctrinal teachings; forsooth be- cause a few weak-minded young men thought it clever to ape the manners of Rome; and like spoiled children, play with the fire until they had paid the penalty of being scorched I As matters stood, the bishops did their duty; and the faculty, by their' magnanimnous, honorable course, increased the debt of obligation which the church owed them. In the midst of these disagreeable disturbances it was generally announced that on a certain Sunday, three new Roman bishops elect would be consecrated at St. Patrick's cathedral. The usual attractions of music and pageantry, &c., were promised; and some of the students were very anxious to go. Among these, strange to say, was the staid and steady Turner!  It is true he had not the slightest sympathy with Romanism, and was only excited by curiosity, In vain did Porter tell him that he had attended the finest ceremonies in St. Peter's itself, and had come away sadly disappointed. Turner wished to see for himself. Edward then used his influence. "I once refused to go with you to meeting," he   JVV    '  BUa BVi WtV 'WAB TX&UALJU said, " during our college days, because I thought i wrong. You are now convinced that I was right in that." ' But you will not deny, I suppose," interrupted Turner, with more sharpness than was common to him-"You will not deny that the Roman Catholic is a church?"  "By no means," answered Edward. "She: is, indeed, a branch of the church, but so thoroughly corrupt, that we can hold no communion with her, until she casts off her abominations." "We'll not dispute about that, Mason," said Turner-his slight irritation having passed,--"I only wish to go to gratify my curiosity." ,d I should attend for the same reason," observed Edward; "but I think it would be wrong thus to turn my back on our dear old church, for the sake of sight-seeing Above all, in these excited times, it is better to avoid even the 'appearance of evil.' It was getting late, and Turner, bidding his friend good-night, retired to his own room without further remark. The next morning, at service time, he knocked at Edward's door, and making no allusion to the con- versation of the preceding night, proposed to acconm pany him to church. The seminary commencement was celebrated to- wards the last of June. The services were held in St. John's chapel. A large congregation, consisting s   ,    of e clergy, students, trustees, d the friensof of e clergy, students, trustees, and the friends of 1e institution, was in attendance. * * A few Sundays after, an ordination was held in the church of which Mr. Palmer was rector. There were several candidates for the diaconate. We are sure that one of them at least felt the awful responsibility which he assumed when the bishop laid his hands upon his head, saying,-"- Take thou authority to execute the office of a deacon in thechurch of GOD, committed unto thee, in the name of the FATHER, and of the SON, and of the HOLY GaosT. When Edward returned to the parsonage at noon, he found a small hand-trunk directed to himself, which had been brought by the boat. The following note was found on the top, as he raised the lid:- "The Reverend Edward Mason wil please -accept the gown and surplice which are contained in this box, as a small token of affection from 'is cousins, Prank' and Henry. *   *   *   *   *   * - In the afternoon our young friend preached. But the mention of the pulpit reminds me that my,task is done. Perhaps, at some future day, if life and health are afforded, the writer may resume his pen, and give a Sequel to the history of The Boy who was trained up o be, a Clergyman. THE END. .    a .              ..    
         
       
   
