
    ----CITATION----
        J. W. L.. Brockley Moor .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7052
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Brockley Moor 
            
                  BROCKLEY MOOR. A N0VEL. BY J. W. L., y h(e L a i  NEW YORK: D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 549 & 551 BROADWAY. 1874.    cordin to St of Cmorssi T   acD. to Act of ConMPess, t y, 1, y D. APPLETON & CoMpPAqT, In thc Offcc of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. ,   CONTENTS. PART I. CHAPTER         "       PAGE I.-CHLDOOD .. . ..  5. l.--TiE GLADE . . . . . . . . 10 "I.-SMUGGLERS' CAVE . . ..     13 IV.-TiIE CASKET . . . . . .  17 V.-SCHOOL-DAYS . .. ..        20 VI.-LONDON . . . . . . . . . 23 VII.-SCIooL . . .    . . . . 2( VIII.-A LETTER . . . ..  IX.-REBELLION . . . . .  . .  32 X.-ANOTIIER LETTER . ....      38 XI.-CONVENTUAL LIFE . .    . . . 3 XII.-CONVENT EXPERIENC .. .   .  42 XIII.-TE  BnAKES . . . . . . .  . .45 XIV.-THEI LOVERS' GLEN . . . . .49 XV.-HOME AGAIN . . . . . . .   . 2 XVLI.--.SHADOWS . ... . . . . . 1 XVII.-"CALM DECAY AND PEACE DIVINE . . . 3 XVIII.-THE DARKENED GABLE . ...  .   XIX.-A MOONLIGHT SCENE . . . . . . G XX.-A SOLITARY LIFE . . . .   . ,9 XXI.-M  FIRST EXPERIMENT . . . . . . .70 :XXII.-Low RELATIONS. . ...     . 74 XXIII.-A FRIEND IN NEED . .. 7. XXIV.--THE TRIAL ...   ..     80 XXV.-TIIE TABLES TURNED . . . . . . . 8 XXVI.-IN DISGRCE . .......       87 XXVII.- M- SECOND EXPERIMENT . . . . . 93 XXVIII.-HAZLE-DELL PASONAGE . . .  109 XXIX.-- THE CASTLE    . . . .  .114 XXX.-GATHERING CLOUDS ......     124   4  ',  CONTENTS.  4                           V': LPd XXI.--IAHZL-DELL AGA IN  SXXII.--TE ShuADOWS DEPEN  II.-TTE SIIADOWS STILL LENGTEN          139 SXXlI1.  E    *   '            . 143 XXXV1.---CHn GES                  XXSVI.-TIiE CASKET         .         1 XXVII.-AOTIEI  LETTER              . 160 xXXVIII.--TIIE GOVERNES AGAIN      .      . 166 X   .-  LoNDON S'ESON    .    .      168 L ST BROWNS, JUsIOR. XL.--AT  OME  .    '  *  XI. TE1E WEDDING . XLIII.-THE RECTORY  SLIV.-A VISIT TO Tni CASTLE  pAT IL            191 I.-A WSECE       -193 II-.-IN RETROS PCT          *     . 1 "I TEE LAY OP TEE CASTLE .    199 1V.-TES LORD OF TE CASTLE      '     . . V.--T1E SECRET IS WhISPEIED           216 VI.-A  OOURNFUL 'PAGEANT .22 VII.-LIFE AT TEE CASTLE *22  VL-T i E WANDERBER         .      . 22f IX  A WELCOME OME      *  *      .23 X..--TH GOSTLY VISITANT            . 236 XI. TRE DYING  RL*         '       23.' XI.-A- 1EW     ) E       .  .    239 XI.-a NEw GUBDIAN  PPEARS     .   .   252 XII.-CONYALECSC      *  *        257 iST.-ROCIY BEACH AGAIN .             . 295  265 WEARY REART                2'll ^.C^H.    o TaECAST ' ' E *      .  . 290 SXPI.--- Or CrItR E CONTINUES XVII.--TIIE SEn was pLBNTED           ' 17 L  281 XVI.-FALLIN LAv$                 284 XX.-K.-TmtocUNG hT TO LIGHT  XI TIIRIun                   255 GRAVE" . 290 X1I.---TEE HEIR OF TEsE CASTLE            2  2 :XSII.---Cor I o F Tss   BR O CLEY MO O. PART I. CHAPTER I. CHLDHOOD, BROCKLEY Moon! The very name suggests at once drcariness and desolation. Yet to me, who made acquaint- ance with the spot some half a century ago, there is a charm in the very letters with which I spell the words. Brock- ley Moor! My childhood's home; the beloved haunt of my youth; the halting, resting place of my life's history; the haven of my old age! How thankful am I that I write now from the moor; that I look out upon it; that my strolls are upon the Moor of Brocliley! I am looking now with eyes that do not see that it is no longer the moor of old-of my childish recollections; for it has been invaded by what are called " improvements;" busy life has come to change the picture upon which my windows look. We have charming little cottages, where the Lon- doners every summer seek repose from toil, or variety in pleasure. We have a railway to link us with the outer world, and a church, whose silvery bell is even now ring- ing for a wedding, and the; walk to the church is literally   i BROCTKLEY SIOOR. among roses; for it is the month of June, and the young rustics are all dressed in holiday attire. For once the Sun shines brilliantly, and that uncertain haze h angs over the western horizon which tells of a warm and pleasant day. But the church, and the railwy, clnd the cottages, And the well-dressed rustics, are all pictures of the latter half of this nineteenth century. My first recollections of i3rockley Moor were when the century was not many years older than myself, and Brocley region was literally a sandy moor, boundedby the sea,with no marks of civilization to redeem its original wildness. But there was to my childish mind something grand and awful in the silent desolation of the place. I used to sit beneath the white cliffs, or on the beach, reveling in my utter isolation as the tide stole nearer and nearer to my feet, threatening to do with mc as it did with the dry leaf which I watched borne away and tossed from wave to wave. My car liked to fancy mockery in the voices of wind and wave that seemed to answer the efforts of my puny arm as it hurled the white pebbles into the deep. Sometimes the ocean seemed like a great living creature, that, unconscious of its own power, suffered me to sport withit. A kind Providence must have guarded me, for I can ell recal how fearlessly I sat upon the ledge of overhanging rock which seemed too insecure to bear even my light weight, while the waves dashed at my feet and the tempest gathered above my head. The sea-gull hovered round, and his dis- mal cry was to my ears like a wild strain of music, to which the roar of the storm was an harmonious accompaniment. Yet to the fairest and longest days evening would come; and, when the gray mist arose in the distance gradually obscuring the lately well-defined white shore, I was re- minded that there was a plac I called home, here there were some who swould be distressed should darkucss set in   CHLDHO OD.         7 while the child of the house was yet abroad. Reluctantly, then, I would gather up my shells and sea-mosses, and turn homeward. At such an hour I did not much like that walk across the moor, and my little feet sped rapidly over it, although I never went home cheerfully, nor ever caught sight of the old house just beyond the moor without a mournful sensation stealing over my heart. Yet that house was where I dwelt, and in it was every association that to me enveloped the name of home. That dwelling contained all I had to expect of human affection, and held all of the world that had any claim upon me. The outward appearance of that home was certainly not inviting. It was but a tall, unpainted brick pile, no longer of any defined color; a certain greenish hue had overspread the whole building, as from roof to base it was covered with a moss engendered by damp and fog. A sort of mould had crept into every crack and crevice, from which cement seemed long ago to have crumbled away. No blinds nor shutters, to ward off the summer sun or break the force of wintry storms, adorned the unsightly edifice. 'There had once been a porch, but ofSthat little remained at the period of my earliest memories. Its columns had one by one dropped away; its roof was rotting with decay, and the whole seemed tottering and dangerous. This overhanging roof, thus left to sustain itself, half sheltered some dilapi- dated stone steps, which nervous pcoplc mounted with fear and trembling. Such was the unattractive exterior, while perhaps even within were to be found as few charms for the stranger. To me, however, it had another aspect. The few rooms that we occupied were scrupulously neat, and certainly' light enough to be cheerful. Upon the third and fourth floors there were numerous deserted chambers, into which nobody ever penetrated but my venturesome self, and I was   j L UIO ULj J. -.L I t. - LL sure to be discovered when I went rummaging among the old chests and spinning-wheels, and was brought down- stairs in half disgrace. Indeed, I was early driven to the conviction that the only place where I could escape admonition, or the proclivity to deserve it, was upon the far-distant shore. But there upon that barren moor and in that old house we lived, Aunt Rachel and I, with our faithful Nelly-the maid-of-all-work duringc the morning, and my aunt's com- panion during the afternoon and evening. Neighbors, saving the humble fishermen and their fami- lies, we had none. True, Brockley Hall stood high upon the cliff, and had in its day been a mansion of some impor- tance; but the Brockleys, whether they were lords or com- itoners I never knew, had but a legendary existence at the moor. Year by year the house had slowly fallen to decay, while the grounds had gone to waste and ruin; and, at the period of my childhood, the house had been given over to the bats and owls, who shared the abode with a gang of dark, rough-looking men, whom we shrewdly suspected of being systematic smugglers, but of whom we were too much in fear to dare mention our suspicions more than by a whis- per to'-ach other. They never molested us or in the least intt.* ed with our possessions, and were ostensibly fisher- ,. niqt although they kept aloof from the others who were ; born to the craft and to the place, and whose avocations were pursued in the light of day. Why my aunt dwelt in so forlorn a place, was a problem to the few who ever thoughlt of her at all; and it was not until her eyes had long been closed in death that I learned the solution. In her youth she was wooed by one who " followed the, sea," in, what capacity I never knew. At all events, he saved money, and with it bought a piece of land on the   CHLDOO OD.          9 confincs of Brockley Moor. There he built the house where my childhood was passed. Doubtless, good man, he chose this site, because he could ever have the ocean before him, and erected his dwelling as much like a light-house as possible, probably intending to have a light ever burning in that quaint, round window in the gable, where my aunt, faithful to his wishes, until theday of her death, never failed to set a bright lantern as night came on. "It might warn some unhappy sailor," she would say, as if apologizing for the act. But, alas for human hopes! The sailor, having built his house, thought to make one more voyage before it should be quite ready to receive his bride. The stout ship in which he sailed, with every soul on board, lay forty fathoms deep beneath the waves, even while his betrothed was counting the days until the iariner's return. But, with more foresight than is often displayed by his class, that "last voyage" had not been hazarded without provision against its chances, and for her whose hopes he carried with his own; .and, when his death became a cer- tainty, a will was produced, which gave to my aunt sole and undisputed possession of the house which her betrothed had built for her; and now the structure which he had made to rise like a tall column, alone in the dreariness of the moor, was rendered none the more cheerful by the mnonu- mental inscriptions it bore to the memory of the builder. To' this unique piece of architecture my aunt imme- diately removed from her parent's abode in the country. She earned a generous living in the manufacture of the finest thread-lace, which at that time was much in demand, vlTrying her occupations by the construction of curious lit- tle baskets and boxes of shells, for which she found a mar- 1ket at White Clif, a town also upon the sea-shore, some v-e miles distant.   10       BRCO KLEY MOOR. Our monthly visits to White Cliff, and an occasional jauit to the Glade, 'where my grandparents then lived, were the only relief to the life I have pictured. CHAPTER II, TI!E GLADE. UPON a small farm, some ten miles inland, in a seques- tered valley, wrell called the Glade, as I have said, my grandparents dwelt. I was their only grandchild, and the tenderness with which I was treated by them contrasted strongly with the unloving discipline that ordered my ways at the moor. As I grew older I learned all that I then knew of her who gave me birth. An old-fashioned portrait of a young girl adorned the best chamber of the farm- house, and somewhere I had heard that it was drawn and painted by my father, and that the original was my mother. "Where is my father's portrait?"I once asked timidly of Aunt Rachel, as I turned from the contemplation of my mother's features. Ay, child, ask not of him! Unfortunately, his likeness was graven too deeply upon your poor mother's heart." This was nearly the sole reference I ever heard her make to my father. To my young heart there was a fascination in that-beau- tiful face which kept my eyes riveted-upon the canvas whenever I could get near it. Not that I could recall the shadow of a resemblance between it and the pale, cold countenance that I had seen so grimly coffined, when I was lifted up to kiss my mother's brow for the last time. Of my mother herself I scarcely remember more than the im- pression of that hour, as I gazed upon her in childish   TH/'E GLAD l.         " won-der rather than with terror. The gray hair, smoothly parted beneath the ghastly cap, bore little resemblance to the raven curls clustering around the pictured brow at the Glade. As my recollections were of pinched, contracted features, and a brow so deeply furrowed that not even death had erased the lines of suffering and care, I therefore found little to awaken natural emotion in the colltemplation of her portrait, the wondrous beauty of which alone captivated my spirit. Of my childhood there is little to tell of outward inci- dent. These visits to the farm, an occasional adventure, one or two narrow escapes from being swept away by the ready waves which caught my venturesome feet, a fewm wreclks upon our coast, and the external history of my child-life is told.. But the deeper, inward history of my young heart I could niot write so libghtly nor so briefly. Of its childish desolation-a desolation that seemed to encompass me like a presence--I had an oppressiv e S from the moment that I learned to read, and began to absorb t1he contents of my first books, which were two or three juvenile volumes, kindly given to me one day at the fair at White Cliuf Vividly do I remember how I read them over and Over again, until every word was familiar; how then I attacked and exhausted the small stock of home literature, and found in the "Pilgrim's Progress" the fascination and beauty of dream-life in contrast with dull existence at Brockley Moor! I wondered if there were any such worlds for me in the future; if my feet would ever tread in fair regions anrd meet beings as lovely, as strange, as terrible as those, pictured in rny wondrous stories. I wondered if there could be a place here Ithlc waves did not lash nor the angry tempest howl. At lengtlh, when every book of the domestic library had been read until I could repeat thbir cilntcnts, I turned ill   12       BtUCIfLEY  O OU R. perfect desperation to the Bible, which had hitherto been associated in my thoughts with that silent hour of morning devotion which my aunt rendered little edifying, and with those unfrequent visits to the chapel beyond the moor, where religion was taught by the good vicar to the simple fishermen and his own family. However, I seized the precious volume, and not happening to open at the Prov- erbs or the Psalms, from which I was daily required to re- peat a few verses, I lighted upon the story of Joseph and his brethren. The very day of this precious discovery, I car- ried my Bible to my seat at the sea-shore. There I heeded not the music of the waves, nor the enraged sea-bird as he flapped his wings over my head. I perfectly devoured the narrative, omitting all intervening portions. I scarcely know how far I had penetrated the sacred mysteries, when a growing mistiness of the words reminded me that darkness was coming. I glanced fearfully around, and perceived that a heavy thunder-storm was gathering in the west, while in the east the full round moon was rising from the ocean, like a. ball of fire, casting a lurid glare over the scene which was almost appalling. Not a shell had I picked, and my aunt had charged me to bringwa basketful. I sprang from the crag , and, regardless of the fierce tempest that was increas- ing every moment, I knelt upon the beach to accomplish my task. The wind, every instant growing more furious, threatened to dash my slight form upon the crests of the waves that were encroaching steadily upon the shore. One deafening peal of thunder, simultaneous with a 'flash of lightning, that for the instant blinded me-a howl of the tempest as mighty as though legions of demons were shrieking as they surrounded me-and I fell; a mingled sensation of pain and stupor, with a choking feeling, as though I was suffocating in salt-water, seized me for a. mo- ment, and I became insensible to all things.   sj[UGGL1E2s' CAVj       13 13 CHAPTER III. SAIUGGLEES' CAVE. ON returning to consciousness I saw strange, swarthy faces surrounding me, and I was not long in realizing that I was neither upon the storm-beaten shore nor yet at home. I shivered as I confessed to myself that Iwas at Brocldey Hall in the armsof one of the smugglers; that another was bathing my head, while a third was chaftn my cold feet with his rough hands. "Never fear, little one, we will make you whclldink this," said the man who held mc, as he put a glass to my lips. I obeyed. It must have been strong drink that he gave me, for I relapsed into unconsciousness. When I again was roused, I lay upon a comfortable bed, while le who had heldc me was combinog the salt and sea- weed from my curls, with all the gentleness of a woman. As I opened my eyes, he bent down and oisscd me, and his smile was so briight and kindl that all. my fear vanished. "What will my aunt say?"I ventured to ask, at length. "'W Vho is your aunt, my little one, arid wher e do you live? he askd, in reply. "I live beyond the moor, with Aunt Rachel. Oh! what will shet! say? I have spilled all the shells, and lost her basket! "Ay! child, do you know where yO? have beeii? Do you remember tossing like a feather upon the wave, n - I saw you, and saved yo, as by a miracle? , "Pretty creature that aunt must be," added another of the men,"o send a bonny wee thing lilke you to pick shells upon the lea, in such a storm as this. That wind   "       BROCKLEY M O  R. would have carried away an army like you beyond mortal sight, in a little while " "Aunt Rachel did not know the storm would come," I faltered. "Well, that rock is no place for a little girl at any time," rejoined the first speaker. "You had better read at home; I have expected to see you fall from there, many a day." "But I never did fall," I replied, wondering how he could ever have seen me there, when I had so rarely seen a human being near the spot. "Well, don't go there any more, little one, unless you want the sharks to eat you. Next time, perhaps, nobody will be near to aid you. Go to sleep now, and when day- light comes I will carry you back to your careful old aunt." I did not like to hear my aunt thus lightly spoken of, although I felt quite reassured by his promise to take me home in the morning, for I iad begun to have a vague fear that it was part of a smuggler's profession to kidnap little girls. The morning came, but no removal for me. A severe fever had seized me, and the men pronounced my case crit- ical. My aunt was sent for, and a physician called from White Cliff. Botlh appeared in the course of the day--my aunt later and more reluctantly than the physician. Wheth- er she censured me or not, I do not remember. What were her feelings during that terrible storm in which I did not return, she never informed me, but I am sure she never forgot the three weeks that she was forced to spend at Brockley Hall, with the dismal night-birds overheads and, as she said, thieves and smugglers below. I recovered speedily; but how often in after-lifc have I wished that I had died then in innocenc 'and ignorance of real sorrow iad life's dark days!   SMUGGaLES, 6A VE. was never so robust afterward, nor quite so dauntlcss Perhaps. However, I did not abandon my old eraggy sat, nor had I quite conquered the desire to become acquainted with sacred literature. Between myself and Elrie--the brave man who had saved my life-there sprang up a warm attachment; and often, before the experiences of maturer years could give confirmation to the emotions of early days, I have blessed the hour when the winds made sport of me, and threw me into the arms of this noble-hearted deliverer. Often, when I lay upon that rocky shore, lost in reveries of the bright world outside of Brockleyv oor, he would suddenly appear before me, take my hand and lead me to haunts where even my bold feet had never ventured, and ere we parted would fii my basket with bright and beauti- ful shells, such as I knewwere not to be found upon our sterile coast. He soon discovered my fondness for rcading, and it was seldom that a week elapDsed withiout seeing some new treasure added to my lilerary store] Occasionally a-ift of value would be placed amnong I the shells, and, upon a Christ- mas-day, a small package was left at our house addressed "To Agnes, from one who loves her," and, to int wonder and delight, beside a beautiful set of books, was a rieh mad chastely-ornamented silver cup, siDly marked RAgines." I had no doubt as to the donor but, while my aunt was suggesting the good Vicar at White Cliff, I treasured my thoughts as one delights in secret love. And thus, strange as it may appear, this lawless lan, Seemingly rough and untutored, had the greatest influnce over the early shapings of my mind and heart. For a while lie merely sat beside mc upon the beach, or led me to wild and rugged haunts; but after a time he con- ducted me to   cave, which was entered bine atl thl, e vL y oSt::^^^a1     f    r   16       BlROuK LEY MOOR. rock upon which I had loved to perch, and which was in reality the roof of this subterranean chamber. There I spent hours in peaceful retreat from the sun and tempest. There he read to me poems that he loved, with the wondrous tales of history, more fascinating to me than fiction, and told by him with almost poetic feeling. There, he would draw from me my knowledge of matters of practical interest. There he taught me, too, the value of other tongues, and guided me, to a knowledge of more than one modern lan- guage. Nor were the arts of composition overlooked. He per- ceived the activity of my imagination, and indulged its efforts to give form and expression to its dreams-helping me to give some degree of coherence and grace to my irreg- ular verses as I repeated them to him. So, with my efforts at prose composition he was yet more patient and careful, making my juvenile productions a source of delight and improvement to me, while giving proof of his own early tastes and culture. Under such a tutor; in the school-house of the cave, or among the grander objects of Nature, I was gaining more knowledge than I dreamed, and drinking in purer inspirationl than come from the ordinary tutelage of childhood. And then, as evening came on, he would take my hand, wrap my cloak around me, and, carrying my basket of shells, would lead me across the dismal moor. When we parted he would hasten away in another direction toward Brockley Hall, and I would trudge on to the cheerless house, where already a faint light glimmered in the round window of the gable.   1TII,7 OAS7,T17 CHAPTER IV. TIE CASKET. Mt  daily goings and returnings had become such a atter of course with Aunt Rachel , that she never ques- tioned nor interfered with them. A round of domestic duties had to be accomplished every morning. but, as her day commenced before sunrise, I fulfilled my task of household work, did the allotted piece of sewing, repeated the Bible verses, and accomplis hed the wretched hour of study and writing, before our noon mel iwas ready, after which I as free.  The dinner ws   uicly swallowed, and, bore Nclly had put on her afternoon gown and cap, or my aunt was seated a  r    my young feet wcre flying across tho tmoor with a book in my pocket, and perchance a fairy- tale in my mind to repeat to Elric if he ougt me. How far imy aunt knew of my haunts and doings, I am to thia hour ignorant. With an intuitive shrinking from any allusion to Elric and his affection for me, I never men- tioned him at home; and, if my course was wrong, I can, with a quiet Conscience, justify my reserve in an atmosphre which chilled every thing that sprang from the heart, and where I daily experienced the pains of martyrdom, in the mere struggle to meet the require0  imposed upon '"e.    .       requirements imposed upon Vithl Elric I was a different child. Affectionate en- couragment,  with judicious counsel and reprof, made lme as frank in my communications as i was tactable under discipline, and perhaps the whole affection of my nature went forth to Elric--strrangc man.   of   Of him, yars late,' I Hearncd muc! that would have   BROCOKLEY   O O0012. 18       \ clothed him in romance to my childish imagination, and jus- tified, perhaps strengthened my feelings toward him. It is enough to say now that he had loved my mother- vainly, it is true, but fondly and truly. After she was lost to him forever, he had, in bitterness and despair, joined the band which he finally led to Brocldey Hall. To the Hall a subterranean passage had been constructed, one egress of which was under my rock, through the cave in which I spent the brightest hours of my childhood. He had watched me upon the rock, long before the Iay of my rescue. He knew perfectly well whose child I was, and it was probably for my mothers sake that he first noticed me at all. Poor Elric! in after-years I saw him under trying cir- cumstances; but misfortune could never quench the higl spirit nor entirely destroy the native and exquisite sensibil- ity which always' elevated him so far above those with whom he associated. Years passed, and my affection for him grew with my growth; and in the smugglers' cave I learned lessons of morality and virtue, and found a sort of intellcctual train- ing, such as I should never have had under my good aunt's stern and narrow teaching. One other circumstance of my childhood left its lasting impression upon my mind. In Aunt Rachel's bedroom there was a high, old-fashioned chest of drawers. pon it there had always stood a beautifully-wrought iron casket, kept securely locked. I had often longed to penetrate its mysteries. My aunt frequently brightened the jeweled ld, and ,casionally unlocked the box, and let it rest awhile open.   ' One d y, when I was about ten years old, she was thus employed, and I had climbed upon a chair to watc the proceeding Curiosity mastered my respect for the injunmi-   THE CASKET.         19 tion never to meddle with the box, and I cautiously peeped in, and spelled my own name written distinctly upon a package of papers. From that hour I had little rest upon the subject. A close scrutiny of the exterior discovered something graven upon a silver plate. After much study, I deciphered "Agnes Alwn and Edward Trenham, June 20, 18-." Who was Agnes Alwyn? My mother, surely! but I dared not repeat the thought' to Aunt Rachel. In my next visit to the Glade, I was emboldened to ask my grandmother. "What a sweet name it is!"I added. "I wish it were mnie--Agnes Alwyn is so much prettier than Agnes Trenham " "Ah, child! I wish that your mother had thought so. She preferred to be Agnes Trenham." My grandmother knew nothing of the mystcrious box, and its contents remained a scaled secret until years after, when my aunt committed it to my care, and I found it to contain my mother's bridal jewels, and also a package ad- dressed to me, to remain unopened until I should be twenty- one; or to be opened before my marriage, if that event took place before my majority. In addition to this legacy, there was also the correspondence of my parents, subject to the same prohibition until my arriving at the age of liberty. But rapidly, too rapidly, the years of childhood van- ishd, while all things round me saw no change. My aunt seemed to grow no .older-Nelly looked just the same. The tempest raged, and the mad waves dashed upon the changeless and patient shore. Not a blade of -grass, not a tree nor a shrub, had sprung up to relieve the desolation of the moor. The old brick house was just as green and mouldy, and the windows stared as boldly from the pile of masonry, as when my infant feet first trod those clhccrless walks. "I   'V &U(ILV' i       r X  vic.. I alone seemed changed. The freshness and uncon- sciousness of childhood were waning. I had longings that could not be gratified at Brockley Moor. There were im- pulses and ambitions pining, like a caged bird, for that beautiful world outside, and it was only in the " smugglers' cave " that I dared speak of them. Thither day by day I resorted. Upon the beach I would await the signal, and my feet needed no pilotage to  the retreat. How EIric's eye would brighten, his dark face becoming beautiful as I sprang to his open arms, and how grave his - : countenance grew as the day waned and the hour of part- ing came! A slight allusion to my mother, once, betrayed his ac: quaintance with her, and from that hour a new bond exist- ed between us; and, when we were neither studying nor reading, he would tell me of her, picturing her as the model after which I was to form my mind and character. My poor mother ever clinging to the strong--startled by her own voice and, shadow-living but to love and be cherished. When affection was withdrawn, she drooped and withered like a flower shut away from sunlight and warmth. CHAPTER    V. SCIOOL-DAYS. JusT at the close of my fourteenth year, my aunt re- quested one morning that I should remain at home that af- ternoon, as she desired to have some conversation with me. I gave a sigh, and promised to be with her. I had never been favored with such a request before,'and my heart sank at the prospect.   SCHOOL-DA YS          1 "Agnes," she said, as she sat down to her after-dinner work, "you were fourteen years old some months ago." "Yes, Aunt Rachel."' !"Your education has beenmuch neglected-my on fault, to be sure." I was silent. "You are aware,.Agnes if any thing should happen to me, to deprive me of health or life, you would haveto sup- port yourself." t I have never thought about it aunt, but I know lo to weave lae and do a great mny useful things that you have taught me." "I know this, child, but there are better ways of making a living, and I would like to make you a teacher." "Oh! dear aunt! ," I exclaimed in joy. "But, Agnes, you will have to go 'away from me-from home!" and my cold#unloving aunt was shedding tears. I crept toward her, and put myhead upon her knees. "God bless you, Agnes!" she said, as she stroked my curls and bent down to kiss me. f' You are a good child-- you have been the brightest spot in my existence, since you were committed to me. It nearly breaks my heart to send you thus away, but it is for your good." By this time my tears fell fast, and I sobbed in her lap. "Well, Agnes, this is very silly in us. Let us think no more of the separation. In a week all things must be ready, for the Vicar of White Cliff will take you under his care to France, where you will remain three years at a boarding-school. Make the most of that timne, Agnes, for I can give you no more. It will be necessary for you to re- main at home during the afternoons of the week, for there are many things to be prepared." "May I not go once more to the sea-shore, Aunt-Rachel; just once more, and I will sew all night instead?" -   She consented that I might go that afternoon, and I sped across the moor. I found Elric, with his countenance troubled, rapidly pacing the beach. "What has happened?" he exclaimed, as soon as he looked upon me. With bitter tears, I exclaimed, "Isam going away-1 am going to France for three long years. Oh, I shall never see you again !" He folded me in his arms silently, but how fondly! "Going to France for three years!" he asked, after a long pause. "It cannot be-I cannot spare my darling." I soon told him the story, and he led me to the retreat. The hours sped on in mournful haste, and night came on too soon. I was laden that day with rich and beautiful gifts, and a ring was put upon my hand; the brightness of the jewel completely dazzled my eyes, that had never be- fore looked upon a pure diamond. Poor Elric ! the tears streamed down his sunburnt cheek, and his hand trembled as he led me hoixe. "Do not forget me-never forget me!" he cried, ' daughter, child of my heart!" " Indeed-never, never can I forget you, dear Elric ! I will write long letters and tell you every thing." "Will you write, daughter? Address your letters to 'Elric, White Cliff,' and you shall hear from me that they are received. Alas! poor child, you have never known a fathers love-scarcely a mother's. Let not the world rob me of you, for I cherish you with a parent's affection." "Nay, Elric, if that could be, I should be, unworthy of your love. If ever we meet again, you will surely find me unchanged." " Unchanged, dear Agnes-that cannot be! You go from me untutored, strange to the woild's conventionalities   Ig    l es  as  an nfan LONDON2 23 -guileless as a ifntpure and unsullied as te flake that falls from heaven upon this foul earth. Will years of ex- perience in that lesser world of school---and in France, too- leave no scars upon your heart ? Will it not have enlight- ened you as to the social distinctions which we know not, or disregard, in this seaboard seclusion ? Will expediency and policy have tutored the heart? Ay! Agnes, darling, will the snow-flake be sullied in its contact with grosg earth? Forbid-God forbid it ! If I know how to pray, this shall be my petition, that the God of the orphan may ba with you-that, as you are friendless and without human ajid in this cold, this treacherous world, the angel of HIis presence may be beside you, guiding, protecting, and encouraging you !" We were standing at my door. The bright moon shone full upon his upturned face, and a tear glittered upon his dark lashes, as he added to his prayer, in broken tones, the word "farewell! " lie following day, a letter was sent to my aunt, in- closing a note for twenty pounds "for Agnes's us--a parting gift from one who loved her ! " ".Ah, the good vicar! he is alwatys so tlloullghtful!" said my aunt. I glanced at the well-knowvn writing, but said nothing to destroy my aunt's gratitude to her favorite vicar. CHAPTER VI. IJO1DO& . IT was early in April when I left my aunt. A brief visit to the farm was permitted; I said farewell to my mother's portrait, and was carried thence to London. Oh, what a world of excitelnent filled my heart as the   24       iBROOILEYY  00MR. coach rolled on toward the vast city I It was evening, and a fair sky-most unusual-was over us. I had never im- agined any thing so immense as London, nor any thing short of the stars of heaven as innumerable as its lights, which seemed to be moving as we approached them. My heart stopped beating for an instant, when, in the neighborhood of St. Paul's, we heard the army of clocks simultaneously toll the hour of nine, and, as I glanced at the venerable dome, which, in the dim light, towered up like a gigantic spectre, a chill as of death came over me, and I involuntarily covered my eyes, and shrank back into my corner of the coach. Business detained the vicar three weeks in this vast Babel. lie took me everywhere-to the Tower, to West- minster, and to every place that history or tradition has made venerable. I will not attempt to describe my feel- ings; they were the eager sensations of an ignorant girl fresh from the moorland, with a heart full of imaginations, whose wild dreams of all that there is of beauty and pleas- ure in the world were now to be set face to face with realities. I would gladly live over again those hours, especially those spent in Westminster Abbey, where, for the first time in my life of fourteen years. I listened to music. I wept and choked down my sobs until I could do so no more, when I threw myself upon my knees, in a delirium of ex- citement, whther of pain or pleasure I could scarcely de- termine. Thevicar kindly raised me, and, as if understand- ing my feelings, led me away and diverted them with other objects of interest. But he did not refuse to repeat the visit to the abbey when I earnestly begged for it. Perhaps I was too uncultured to be as much af- fected by the exhibitions of paintings in the galleries we visited. Certainly, I found less pleasure in them than   "ONDON .- 25 others. I complained of a want of naturalness in both the scenery of the landscapes and the 'figures of the plet ures, and perhaps it Was some truthfulness in the uncon- scions heresy of my criticisms that seemed to amuse the worthy vicar. From London we started for Dover, where thebwhite cliffs and rocky beach brought my far-away home vividly before me again, and my feet sought the strand as by instinct. Thoughts of Elric as naturally came to me, and, before leaving Dover, I wrote to him four long pages, on which my heart poured itself out with a mixture of emo- tions I knew he could readily comprehend. Of our Channel-crossing I only recall the misery, for there was nothing else to remember. I found the element, so familiar to my childhood, hiad other and less pleasant capabilities than I had ever had occasion to experience. Shut in between two shores, and making sport of the help- less little craft in which we embarked, it added to my experiences some that I could have dispensed with and felt no loss. "The poetry of the sea" is never discerned in the Straits of Dover; and eventhey who traverse them  in these days of comparative lixury in the methods, will appreciate the relief with which I felt the vessel gliding into the smooth waters of Calais harbor. The good vicar rallied from a discomposure as profound as my own, and, taking me again under his charge, we disembarked. Feel- ing no disposition to tarry at this unattractive French town, we traveled rapidly to Paris. Nor did we spend much time in the gay capital. A few days, devoted to the his- torical monuments, churches, and galleries, were all my reverend protector had the leisure or the desire to con- sume, before starting upon the last stage of our journey. 2   20       BRO CKLEY MOORS. CHAPTER VII. SCHOOL. So E sixty miles beyond the French capital we had yet to post before the final halt. The journey was wearisome, but it was over at last, and we found ourselves before a pleasant-looking lodge, past which we drove through a beautifully-shaded avenue, and stopped at the entrance of a somewhat imposing mansion of graceful architecture and moder origin. There we were received by Mrs. Manners, the principal of the institution. She was a Frenchwoman, who had mar- ried an Englishman. She was widowed in England, where she had made many acquaintances. Her husband had left slender provision for her, and, when she made known to his friends her intention to return to France and open a school for the education of English. girls, she was well patronized, and, at the time I made her acquaintance, was possessed of considerable property. She was a plausible sort of French dame, spoke excel- lent English, and was well supported by a corps of assist- ants. She had been personally known to the vicar for many years, and he did not hesitate to recommend her to my aunt, when a Continental school was considered. Her terms were high, or my poor aunt's savings would -have placed me there some years sooner. I lost not much, how- ever, by the postponement. The vicar left me, and I was shown to the dormitory. This apartment was on the fifth floor, and was a room about thirty feet long and ten or twelve in width. Six narrow cots were ranged the length of the room; at the foot of every second bed, consecrated to two pupils, stood   SChO OOL. a chest of drawers with a dres.          27o a wash-stand was. givenI  sing-glass. To each pupil towels.   TV" given, well provided with 'water and A small, grted r window at each end of the room,  a single door, pen1ing from the centre of the chmber uon alrge with ehent  ient      of thue I roomad a large corridor, Were all' the means of ventilation thoat I could discover A sense of depressio n stole over e, as  unpacked my trunk and stowed a;cay it     s ai  al of the chest of drawer   s    ofl o. nifortunatel (                 my Fortunately for my peace of mind, my bed stood atT the extreme end of the  , under ocey bed toodin thou giht   ld     unde   of the windows. I to  O MY old I bedroom--plain and scantily furnished s i was-its three great windows looing far  on the S  I dreaded 'the hour o rest, and was sure I should never survive a night's imprisonment in such close quar- Madame appeared as if by magic. "I think you will be blandly. bl an a ey.       '  1cmfortable here," ysoe said, I made no reply, althoutg I was conscious of lookin. very nucli the reverse of her prediction. The slighltes f shade passed over her face, nd my trousseau.      and she proceeded to examine "o   ig   h   ha-e save d the expense of these dresses; the young ladies are in uniform in this establish. "Uniform!,r was my almost involuntary exclamation. osuit afor uredly; you will be provided with a simple Of hanrdsodily wear, of light-gray stuff with a blaclk robe o handsome material for und an festivls  With this she cast a glnce at my browaand festiva.! ., . - but  not gra y, unf,  a t m y  brown m. J el , ograS;unfortunately. f : nmermo---mple enough nargs, jewelry-   28BROCKLEY 2001. O chin even watches and lockets, will be put aside, and not worn except pontes.  I se you have no jwe  ; that broach is permitted; but you cannot be allowed to wear curls; the youn ladies are all in plain coiffure." ouldnothelp smiling, as I thought of the trouble it w  ould give to a coif to get the curl out of my imprac- Vtichle hair, which would simply curl and nothing else. "IAh! I see you objecth" she added, with that same sinister expression.              to Again I dissented and expressed my  smooth my locks, if possible. She evidently did not understand m y ready acquiescence in all the rules of the establishment, with which she favored me upon matters of toilet, and, after taking mental in- ventory f my effects, I was led off to my future com- panions and introduced as Mile. Trainhem, of England. The young ladies all arose and gracefully acknowledged the introduction; at the same time an exchange of glances, and the slightest possible titter, did not escape me, and I felt my cheeks tingle. The recess came, and, as no one offered to escort me, I followed the young ladies into the garden. No onespf  to me, or endeavored to relieve the awkwardness of my position. 3eo overinga vacant seat, I took possession of osition. Discoveringom my .small book, and endeavored it, and drew from my pocle  to read. tI son heard my name and, starting at the ound, I was forced to listen to much derisionof myself, my aountryfied dress, and manners. I glanced at my dress, which an hour before I thought proper and becoming. To be sure7 a sober brown merino'and a plain linen collar did not con- trast very unfavorably with the gray uniform of my co panions although 11 had a misgiving as to the fashiort of the m1at ria. ut probably seemed rather antiquated to those   SCHOOL.          29 fair and fashion-loving damsels, for it was only the achieve- ment of a ,White-Cliff mantua-maker, and she the least considered of her profession in a place av6wedly twenty years behind the age. I caredj however, less for their severe criticism of what I wore, than for other remarks that came to my cars. They spoke French, probably imagining that the lan- guage was an unknown tongue to me. They were conse- quently somewhat startled, when, after a moment's hcsita- tion, I appeared among them, and addressed them in the same language. "I have been forced, young ladies," I said, "to over- hear the conversation that has just passed between you. I am very sorry to have heard such severe remarks. Much that you said is perhaps true; and it is not for me to criticise the breeding that ridicules the appearance and deportment of a stranger, whose position as a new-comer the rather entitles her to your kindness. With that I have nothing to do; but I would lose no time in assuring you that I am not here upon charity, as you term it. There we are equals. I am in this place on the same footing witl yourselves, and you cannot help it. I wish it, therefore, un- derstood from this hour, that I acknowledge no superiors among you, save those whose gifts and attainments place them above me. The only inequality that I can admit here is that of education and breeding. In these respects you should all be in advance of me." In lthe silence that succeeded I turrned away. A tall girl came from the group and offered me her hand. "You are right in what you have said, Miss Treuhalm. I admire your spirit, and would be your friend." The speaker was Pauline Manners, and from that day she was my sworn advocate.   30       BROCBKLEY MGOR. CHAPTER VIII. A LETTER. "MY DEAA ELRIC, DtAn FRIEND, DEAR GUIDE: The world, be assured, has not robbed you of your child. No day has passed when I have not visited in thought your fairy cave. How much I miss you! How often I long for your patient ear and wise counsel! How longingly I pine for a sight of the free and glorious ocean! Here our 'ample grounds'-five acres-are fenced in with high stone-walls, which I cannot leap, and through which your solicitous eyes could not pierce. My room-that is, my sixth-part of a room-is on the fifth floor. It contains two small win-. dows, grated, lest despair or homesickness should tempt us to a plunge for death or freedom, even from that height. One of the windows, happily, is over my bed, and through its bars I can see for a great distance over the surrounding country. Indeed, this is justly called ' La belle France,' and I often think if I could wander over the beautiful hills and through the rich vintages of the valleys, clinging to your hands as in days past, I could forget for a while the scenes I have left. Ah! dear friend, do you remember what you have told me of the heart? How often I think of your words when I recall my longings to penetrate the world be- yond the moor, and contrast my bright dreams with the dreary heart-siclmess-or homesickness, if that be the mal- ady-which seizes me when I gaze from my grated window over the landscape, and long for one glance at the dear old barren moor, awful and desolate as it is! Even Aunt Rachel assumes a form of tenderness to me, in contrast with the false and frivolous specimens of my sex that surround me   A LETTER.          31 here, shaming our common womanhood, destitute of all that graces and dignifies it. "I have made no friendships, and but one intimacy. A daughter of the principal, a kindly-disposed girl, has been very amiable toward me, and once openly dissented from those who affected to treat me with disdain and were ready to make me a butt for ridicule. I did not need her advo- cacy, nor did it appear until I had demonstrated my ability to take care of myself. One encounter was enough, and I have not since been troubled. "I wrote to you from Dover, dear Elric-a long letter -telling you of my visit to London, where I so greatly longed for your companionship to share my pleasure. Of the rest of our journey I have little to say. Paris I en- joyed, but far less than London. The spirit and character of the place harmonized less with my tastes. "As for my studies, I believe that I am accomplishing something. My music-instructor encourages me to believe that I will succeed. Yet none of my lessons have the charm of those when you were my teacher. Alas that those days can return no more! 'Three years! three long years!' I say to myself, when I suffer the thought; ' three years of this imprisonment, of such companionship I Oh, for a breath of the ocean-wind! a glimpse of the lonely moor!' "We alternate in walking to a post-town, about two miles distant, two of us gding each day. To-morrow my chance will come, and I must finish this letter that I may drop it in the office with my own hand. I will write again before Christmas, although I can scarcely hope for more interesting material. Will you not write to me, if only a few lines?-and be sure, dear, good Elric, that you will never be forgotten by your own "AGNES."   32       BIKROILEY MOOR. R CHAPTER IX.  BEBELLION.  THE day after this was written I walked with Fanny Lorton and one of the teachers to the town. Inorantof the rules of the school, while the teacher made some pur- chases Fanny and I strayed to the post-office, where I de- posited my letter. The following day I was summoned to Madame aManners's private sitting-room. A solemn array of teachers somewhat startled me, making me apprehend some fearful accusation. I was evidently arraignedd. Fan- ny Lorton was also present, weeping bitterly. ," Well, Miss Trainham, what have you to say for your- self? Do you know that your disobedience would justify your expulsion?" I was in profound amazement, and declared that I was not aware of having willfully disobeyed, and begged to know the nature and measure of my offense. l"You dare not tell me, Miss Trainham, that you have been two months in this establishment and do not know that it is against the rules for any young lady to go to the post-office?" I maintained that I was ignorant of any such rule, and was then requested to surrender the letter that I had taken out. I replied-that I had taken no letter from the office, but had mailed one to an esteemed old friend. "We would like to know, the name of that friend, liss Trainham." "Unless madame it be recognized law, to which I must submit, I decline answering your question." Madame Manners turned scarlet, and, in an odd jumble   R1sEBEtLLION.        33 of French and English, she fairly shrieked out: "My wishes are the recognized rules of this establishment, mademoiD selle. Inform me, this instant, to whom was that letter ad- dressed?" "It was addressed, madame, to one to whom I am so much indebted that, rather than grieve him, who has a father's place in my heart, I obey you-because my disobe- dience would give him pain; his name is Elric." "Well, then, miss, for Mr. Ailrick's sake, since you love him better than your duty, remember that your future com- munications with him must pass the same supervision as all other letters that leave this respectable establishment. Furthermore, Miss Trainham, I would impress upon you that your very great offense is overlooked merely for the sake of the good man who placed you here. Your future stay, remember, is one of bare toleration. Already several young ladies, and of the highest rank, too, have been ex- pelled for the same disobedience!  " I repeat to you, madame, that I have not willfully dis- obeyed you, having never dreamed of so tyrannical a re- quirement. Moreover, I am not all desirous of remaining here upon the footing you have named, and beg that you will extend to me the same distinguished consideration, whereby you freed those children of 'the highest rank,' and let me return to the freedom of my former life!" Madame Manners looked aghast, and the teachers ex- changed significant glances I was sincere in what I said, and would gladly have been released from my prison-house. Madame Manners, how- ever, was too politic to expel me so needlessly; ahd there- by offend so good a patron as the old vicar. She dismissed me to my room, telling me to remain there until I was ready to make an ample apology. I replied that I had no further apology to make. I   34       BROCKLEY MOOR. again said that I was not conscious of the existence of the law which I had broken, and that I could say no more, ex- cept, perhaps, that the offense should not be repeated. I insisted, however, that my residence should not be consid- ered one of sufferance; if my conduct had been so culpa- ble, I much preferred to leave the school, and was sure of my aunt's permission to do so. Go to your room, Miss Trainham; I will not have a pupil talk back to me-go to your room 1"I went to my room, and did not leave it except for recitations, for two weeks, during which time I feasted sumptuously on bread- and-water, and had no more fresh air than I could catch through my high grated window. At the expiration of that time, I requested to see Madame Manners. I told her that I must go home-my health was suffering from con- finement and want of nourishment-my strength had already failed, and my head was so giddy that I could not keep my eyes upon my books. She replied that she had been waiting two weeks for my apology, and I should pot leave the room until I was ready to atone for the past. I repeated what I had previously said, and deliberately walked to my drawers and began to take out my things. "Miss Trainham-if you leave the school in this man- ner, your character is lost forever! I will follow you to the ends of the world, and blast you as a liar, and unprin- cipled!" "You may do your best, madame, but I shall tell the truth, notwithstanding; and, as I am neither a liar nor un- principled, the world will soon find out who is to be be- lieved. Ay! madame, I can tell English parents a history, methinks, that might bring down your patronage!" "What do you mean, miss?" and she turned pale. "I mean, madame, while I am arraigned as a criminal 'here, for writing to my mother's friend-one who has been   REBELLION. a father to me in affection during. long years--because I have not gold wherewith to bribe, or position to be courted -others more gifted in these respects are permitted de- grees of freedom from which my heart instinctively re- volts! How manyr young feSet are on the road to ruin I scarcely dare think! Start not, good madame--I mean it -ruin, morall and social! Think you that I have been two months here, and am ignorant of the clandestine meetings just outside these high, immaculate walls, whose gates gold only can open? Am I the only one who in that time has ever quietly mailed a letter in the afternoon-walk? Ah no, no! It was from seeing oters, that I learned the way," I said with bitter scorn; '",and if 2I, like others, ad lined my reporter's hand, perhaps her eyesight had been as dim toward my actions, and I had lost this oppor- tunity, madame, to tell these wholesome truths!" Madamne was all attention, and betrayed the greatest interest, though her lip quivered andher check was pale' with suppressed rage. "  Indeed! this cannot be true, Miss Trainham-1 have never dreamed of such things! In Mfercy's name, tell me the offenders! I will punish, I will expel, though my walls should be left empty!"' "Nay, pardon me, madame, if I decline to be informer in turn, and name the persons. I would only say that they are not the exceptions, but the rule in this establish. ment." I turned aside to arrange my trunk; but, whether ma- dame considered me a dangerous informer to be let loose in Enland, and a dreadful animal to be enraged and then allowed to run, as if she were in a measure convinced of my rectitudeand saw all her future prosperity at stake, I do not know; only she said: "Desist, my dear-perhaps I have judged you too   harshy; remain with us-for, at all events, I am too much obliged to you, for the hints you have given me, willingly to part with you. Will you not become a monitress? It would be a great favor to me, and would materially re- duce your expenses." A monitress! a spy! Did not my soul revolt at the idea? What self-command it needed not to take up the strain of comment once more, with principal rather than pupils for my theme! However, I thanked her, declining to " confer the favor," assigning no reason other than that I needed all my time for study; and, as for the matter of expense, it was too late to consider that, as my half-year was already paid. She was evidently vexed, but said nothing in reply. She shortly after led me back to the school-room, telling the young ladies there had been a misunderstanding-that she had been mistaken, etc., etc. Pauline, who had not once visited me in my solitude, rushed toward me, threw her arms around me, called me adorable, lovely, charming, and a hogt of other adjectives to which no noun was affixed-she had been miserable, wretched, forlorn, etc., and was happy, overjoyed, delighted, etc. I coldly permitted her violent embraces, and turned to little Fanny Lorton who stood beside me. "Indeed, I did not tell-I did not tell-I did not know that you put a letter in the post-office." "My dear little girl, I never suspected you of being the informer," and I glanced at the teacher who had chap- eroned us upon that eventful afternoon. She turned scar- let, and remarked- "I did but my duty, Miss Trainham." "I commend your strict performance of it, madame," I rejoined, " and trust that you may be faithful under all cir- cumstances. Had you told me, however, that I had violated    the rules of the school, I should have tried to recall my let. ter before leaving town, as both its contents and address would have borne the inspection it has unfortunately lost." From that day I believe I was hated on all sides; and if my previous intercourse with the members of the school  admitted of any contraction on my part, it certainly received a new motive for reserve. Of these days, with their isola- tion, it is painful to think. The desolation of a crowd, and the solitude of an uncaring, unsympathizing multitude, were all realized by a young heart; and a presentiment of a greater crowd and a ruder multitude in coming days, all but bowed that young heart with a weight that even at fifteen years was insupportable. It made me bitter, I am sure, while it saddened me, and I enjoyed a wicked pleasure in evincing my indifference to hate and love. I devoted myself assiduously to study, while my recreation was to think of that wave-beaten shore-the cry of the sea-bird, and my well-beloved, well-tried Elric of the fairy cave I And indeed what could Hwhose favorite thoughts were of th'at rugged shore-what could I find to inspire me in my new position? A few weeks had been sufficient to give me an insight of the characters around me, and I found nothing to attract or draw from me any thing genial which might have been in my nature. There were many bright, intelligent girls, doubtless, with good hears and noblerr spirit, but it was never my happy fortune to penetrate those hearts, nor draw toward me such better natures. But these were not the majority of my school-mates, who were unprincipled girls, whose chief study seemed to be to evade their duties, by devising stratagems and excuses. The systematic collusion practised between teachers and favorite pupils made me happy to be excluded from their secret coalitions and conferences; though, unfortunately, I * - - * li   possessed enough information as to what passed to justify all that I had said to Madame Manners. CHAPTER X. ANOTHER LETTER.        \ A FEW days after my interview with madame, that lady approached me with an open note in her hand, and a certain look of triumph in her countenance. She gave me the fol- lowing communication. It was dated at Brockley Moor: ' DEA g MmAD&AE: I have received your letter in regard to my niece. If she tells you that she did not know that she was acting against your rules, you must believe her, for I never knew her to tell a lie or say a word not perfectly true. In regard to the person you mention, he once saved her life, and she has since been very grateful to him. He is not a gentleman, as you intimate. He is professedly a fisherman, but bears the reputation of a bad man. I do not think his acquaintance desirable. Agnes, however, is old enough to act wisely, and she knows that she must bear alone the consequences of wrong-doing. I have done my: duty in teaching her hers. "If she is not happy at your school, at the expiration of the term for which I have paid I will have her removed' to the convent, a few miles from you. The superior was her mother's friend, and will interest herself in Agnes, whom she has often desired to have in charge. I hope that Agnes improves her time. Please tell her that my health is fail- ing, and that she must not forget her needle-work, as she may have to earn a livelihood by it. "RACHEL ALWYN."    aVIly U1lG LETTE R.      33 I quietly read the note, and returned it to Madame ' "I do not think I can permit any more correspondence between you and-and that man, Miss Trainham," and she left me. Tears had filled my eyes, but I had nothing to say. Perhaps for the first time I was appreciating something of the conventionalities and distinctions of society, and had myself a misgiving as to the perfect propriety of such a cor- respondence; but I banished the thought as one of high- treason, as the devoted being rose before me-he who had guided me from lchildhood upward-and my resolves to be faithful acquired new strength. CHAPTER XI. CONV:ENTUAL LIFE. BEFORE autumn came I had fairly demonstrated to my aunt that I was " not happy," and on the very day that my term expired at Madame Manners's I was received an in- mate within the consecrated walls of the convent dedicated to "La Sainte-Marie." Of conventual life I knew nothing, save the exaggerated pictures I had seen in English ro- mances. Visions of dark passages, subterranean chambers, dimly-lighted halls of a modified Inquisition, where my heretical faith would be put to the test, filled my mind as the great gate closed heavily upon me. How firm I would be; how fearless would be my responses; indeed, how readily I could sacrifice every thing for conscience' sake-- was the inspiration which emboldened me to walk proudly across the narrow corridor, and swelled my young heart with a consciousness of my responsibility as I found my- i   self face to face with the superior-my "mother's friend." One look at that placid countenance, and I was nerveless; one gentle welcome from lips that had never dropped mal- ice, and I was folded close to the heart of "Bonne Mre," as she was called, who wiped away the tears that had come unbidden, and, drawing me to a seat beside her, spoke of my mother-told me of my wonderful resemblance to her; her own deep love forthe young English girl whlo years ago had been a darling friend, and her earnest hope that I might find in her a mother, and in that house a home and ark of peace and rest, until summoned once more to the strife of the world and the struggle of life. The day of my arrival I was introduced to my compan- ions, and my duties were assigned. Three English girls besides myself, and two young daughters of a gentleman of Brittany, made up the number of pensionnaires; and, though the discipline was strict, perhaps severe, we did not feel it rigorous, so happy and home-like was the life we led; and there were few temptations to violate the wishes of the good sisters who had charge of our moral and intellectual training. Moreover, there was something inspiring in the, constant industry and cheerfulness that prevailed among the sisterhood, so that we felt constrained to imitate those virtues, until they became sources of 'pleasure and happi- ness. No zeal for proselytizing took the place of the real purposes for which we were there, and I made rapid ad- vance in solid education and knowledge as the months flew by. A good, substantial basis was formed, and upon this structures of graceful and well-rounded culture were reared. Study became almost a mania with me, and without a wise control my health might have suffered in the ardor and am- bition with which I devoted myself to books. 'Music held a prominent place in our education, and, most happily,   UUtV INTUAL LIE.         41 a purified taste presided jealously over this department. The grave and majestic music of the religious services of the convent accustomed our ears to harmonies and movements that gave them a distaste for the lighter and shallower schools of the art. For myself, my very soul became attuned, as my ear was educated, to the rich, broad fathomless works of the old composers. The spirit could quit the feeble movements of prayer and commit itself to the celestial expression of those rich floating harmonies which seemed to dissolve the soul in purified worship; to hold it for a while in angelic associations and acceptable adoration. Happy for us that this high and pure taste was' fostered at the convent! That we were so led to the purest sources in our musical education has ever been to me a ground of thanksgiving, for it has yielded me through life numberless hours of deepest enjoyment and sweetest con- solation. That our other accomplishments were as successfully directed I can only suppose; for, if my subsequent efforts as a teacher had the success ascribed to them, I owe itall to the training received at the convent. A year had not passed of my residence under that hal- owed roof before I was conscious that a change, blessed ind permanent, had been wrought in my mind and spirit. f, indeed, I had occasional longings to see the dear, old, tesolate moor, or even to hear of the doings of the few n  whom I was interested, the desire soon vanished in he consciousness of the world that was outside those valls-a world I had not even gazed upon since the iron *ate, months before, had closed upon me. The convent ras built on a hill-side, with a southern lookout, which 3ok in a wide view  of a vintage district, and was far emoved from any highway. The narrow lane which led rom the highway to our gate terminated there, and the I   42       BROCiLEY MOOR. faithful porter who kept the lodge at the other extreme knew well who to admit to its shady precincts. We, however, were not permitted to walk in that lane, shady and retired as it was. Nor did we feel the need. Our grounds were quite extensive enough to weary us with a ramble through them, and to offer variety and choice of walks. Indeed, we were a happy family. My com- panions were warm-hearted girls, and to me it was a new existence to be one of a happy group or to gather around a cheerful table. I had a room to myself; it was called a cell, to be sure, but it had a large window, from which, though grated, I could obtain a fine view of the country and of our grounds. CHAPTER XII. CONVEIN T EXPERIENCE. FRoM the window of my cell I could see my favorite re- sort, the small burial-place of the sisterhood. During the first months of my stay I frequently met a young novice in this tranquil resting-place. Notwithstanding the trying severity of her costume, she was the most beautiful creature I had then ever imagined. Some great sorrow had evident- ly driven her to that asylum, for, regardless of weather, she would spend hours in the little burial-spot, weeping so bit- terly that I often thought the poor girl would die. How I longed to speak with her, to hear her history, and try and comfort her while I craved her love! One day I surprised her thus among the dead, but she was not weeping; her pale face lay upon a cold stone, no less white than the mar- ble itself. It seemed to me that she had swooned. I ap- proached her cautiously, and tried to raise her frail form.   CONVENT EXPERIE NCE.       43 I only met with entreaties that I would leave her and ask no questions. I obeyed immediately, and never again in- truded upon her sorrow. When we had followed her to that consecrated inclos- ure, and read 'her simple name, Beatrice, upon a new white slab, I learned her history, literally that of a broken heart. It may be briefly told: \ She was the only daughter of a French nobleman, who consulting his child's wishes, rather than French usage, had given his consent to her union with her cousin, an officer of the army, to whom she was much attached. His own choice for her would have been another. He had destined his beau- tiful child to an alliance with a young nobleman, who pos- sessed his full confidence, and whose rank was more suited to his daughter's, while, in her own heart's choice, the father had not that assurance. However, he permitted the union, and they were married, and the wedding festivities well befitted the occasion. In the midst of the feast, a poor woman, apparently a half-crazed mendicant, solicited alms, and was so urgent in her entreaties of the servants to be permitted to have a glimpse of the newly-wedded Jpair, that, in the humor of the hour, she with a child she led was conducted where she could obtain a view. The amusement suddenly took a ghastly turn; she broke from those who would have detained her, aind rushed into the midst of the gay assembly, where, tearing off her cloalk and the ragged coverings of her child, she threw herself before the trem- bling bridegroom, declaring herself his wife, while the little one innocently lisped "Papa." In vain the man denied. The woman appealed to the spectators, producing the cer- tificate of her marriage by the priest of her far-distant parish, who, she declared, would come at her bidding and identify him as her husband. Exasperated by the incredulity of the guests, and springing from those who would have thrust her   "       BROIKLEY MOO1. from the house, she dashed forward, plunging a dagger into his bosom, and, before her arm could be stayed, another was sheathed in the heart of his innocent child; but, ere her design upon her own life was accomplished, she was restrained. Alas for the bride! A keener blow than that which struck the life-blood from the heart of him she loved was, the proof of his baseness. It was not in human power to comfort her; and, while the deserted wife expiated her revenge in the horrors of a mad-house life and death, the younger, lovelier victim sought refuge in the convent, and, before a year had passed, she slumbered in blissful repose in the spot where she had sought strength, but where, alas! her frail heart broke. Of my young companions at the convent, few inspired me with any special interest, and none with a desire for in- timacy. They were girls of average intelligence, gentle- ness, and good feeling; and I found no difficulty in merg- ing a portion of my outward life in our objects of common interest as a sisterhood. So, with one exception, I found it as easy to drop them from my recollection after leaving the seclusion that bound us together. Only one was in any way interwoven with my subsequent life, or linked it with my convent-days. This one was a young girl from my own country, of plain looks, which were not redeemed by that care and attention to person and apparel to which the instinct of the sex is generally a sufficient spur. Yet she haQ a bright intelligence, and at times a keen wit. But her chief talent was a love and power of invention that car- ried her beyond the regions of truth and fact. She refused to accept the world as it came to her, and preferred to' construct one for herself, in which she could play a part less tame and spiritless than the one in which she moved. Drawn to her by an air of dejection that seemed occasion-   'HfE BRAKES.         45 ally to indicate some brooding sorrow that needed sympa- thy, I soon found myself the victim of revelations and mys- tifying hints of grave secrets, until I was driven to seek ex- planation from one of the sisters. This sister smiled at my perplexity and told me that Margaret Gordon, or "Jes- sie," as she chose to call herself, had a mania for story-tell- ing which had- proved incurable. Her parents had con- fided her to them, trusting that her moral sense might be quickened, and her fault cured. But no influence could root out all the evil, and I began to compassionate an in- firmity so indurate and did not allow it to repel me or make me insensible to the better qualities of Margaret Gordon's nature. She clung to me in spite of my disposi- tion to make merry with her romances, and it probably was indifferent to her whether they were believed or not. She dreamed and told her dreams for facts, and lived in them as realities. I refer to her mania because it entrapped me into a positibn which proved neither agreeable in itself nor without consequences stretching far into my future life. CHAPTER    XIII. TIIE BRAKES. THREE, indeed nearer four, jears Yad passed since I left Brockley Moor, when word came from my aunt, bidding me return to her at the first opportunity, and inclosing the necessary funds for my expenses. It so happened that the same mail brought our friend Jessie a letter from her father, bidding her be in readiness at a certain time, when an escort would be sent to conduct her to the Brakes, the home of her parents, and not very distant from my own. Notwithstanding my indifference, this young lady's predi-   "      iJROCKLEY HOOR. lection for myself had in no degree subsided, and, upon receiving this communication, she rushed to me with it, giving me at the same time a note addressed to myself, and bearing her mother's signature. To my great surprise, I found this to be an invitation to accompany Jessie home, and to spend some time with the family, who, the writer declared, "were most anxious to meet a person to whom they were so much indebted, and who had done so much for Jessie." Grateful for the compliment, and rejoiced at the oppor- tunity to return to England, I accepted the invitation, and wrote to my aunt of my plans, and made my preparations to leave forever the blessed protection where I had so long been sheltered from the strifes and discords of the world. How my heart ached as the hour approached I How my spirit wavered, as the last moment drew nigh, and "La Bonne Mre," mingling her tears with mine, exclaimed, "Beloved child, do not leave us-you will find no such hap- piness in the world as you have known here!"Prophetic words! How often have I recalled them! But I left, however, to prove the truth of the prophecy, and in due time found myself at the Brakes-that is, be- fore the door of a showy mansion, built upon the street in a manufacturing village-for it was scarcely a town-of which Mr. Gordon was the wealthy proprietor. "Wait here, one moment t" exclaimed Jessie, as she dashed up the steps and disappeared through an open French window. I stood patiently at the very gate a rea- sonably long time, when my young friend reappeared at the window, beckoned me up, and introduced me to mamma, who was a vulgar-looking woman, gaudily attired, and afflicted with trouble about the letter H. "' Ow do you do, miss?" she said, without extending her hand, and, before I could reply, she added-   TIIE BLRAKES.        47 "'Ave you a trunk?" Somewhat disconcerted, I answered affirmatively, and turned toward the porter, who was carrying it up the steps. Not knowing what else to do, I mechanically followed "Jessie" and her mother into a gayly-furnished reception- room. Mrs. Gordon said- "Sit down, miss." I obeyed, but, finding my position growing more awk- ward, I addressed some remark to Jessie. "What on hearth do you call that girl Jessie for? Her name is Margaret, but we always call her Peggy!" "Lor' mother, I entreat!" "Now, you needn't entreat. I don't want any romantic girls about me! I would like to know what right you have got to the name of Jessie! Weren't you baptized Margaret Hann, after your good grandmother, my mother that was?" "Oh," said Margaret Ann, " it is one of my friend's fancies. She does not like my Christian name," and she winked at me significantly. "Indeed, I must not allow that charge," I replied. "The young lady introduced herself to me as Jessie, al- though I have since learned that she has a plainer name. But, madam, I have not thanked you for your kind note and unexpected invitation." Margaret Ann looked daggers at me, and her mother looked bewildered as she glanced from one to the other. "My note, miss!" "Yes, madam;" and I produced the note, which Mar- garet Ann tried to intercept, but was too slow for her mother, who took it and quietly read the contents. After some trouble she seemed to comprehend my position, and to account to herself for my presence at the Brakes. "Well, Peggy," she at last said, turning to the culprit,   48       BROOJLEY MOOR. "again at your old sin! A pretty deception, this, to prac- tise upon us all!-'Ere she runs in before you, to tell me-" she added, turning to me; " but, never mind, miss. The note is forged, but you are none the less welcome.- Yes, forged, Peggy," again looking toward her daughter, "and you just home from a religious 'ouse, where I hoped you were cured of your dreadful lies! You disgrace your- self and your parents. But try to do right, at least, by this young lady you've deceived so shamefully.-Come, miss," she continued, approaching me, "this is no fault of yours. Let me show you to the best room, where you can be made comfortable." In vain I protested and begged to be allowed to go on in the post-coach to White Cliff, which was only twenty- five miles distant. The kindly nature of the good woman overbore all my objections, and made me forget the awk- wardness of my position. I ended by yielding to her en- treaties to remain for a few days. On going down to dinner that first day, I was nearly embraced by Mr. Gordon in his anxiety to assure me of a welcome, and put me at ease. Poor Peggy! She sat in disgrace and dejection at the lower end of the table. But neither her sighs nor her tears moved her incensed parents. I could not help com- miserating the girl, whose moral bondage to her besetting sin, making her to prefer the false to the true, the crooked to the straight, seemed like a veritable demoniacal possession. Mr. Gordon proved to be a pleasant man, but far more genial than polished in manner; full of talk and anecdote, with a leaning to the marvelous in his discourse' that strongly hinted at a natural paternity for his daughter's fault. His face would have been agreeable, but for an ex- pression that occasionally warned you of something sinis- ter in the character.   THE LOVERiS' GLE t        49 The dinner was formal and tedious; but it came to an end, and I was committed to Peggy's escort for a walk through the grounds, which proved to be an extensive flower-garden, laid out in circles, angles, and other geo- metrical figures, stiffly bordered with cropped boxwood, and filled with every variety of flowers, the monotony being relieved at intervals by fountains. Here and there a little summer-house started up, and in one of these Peggy and I, made dizzy by our labyrinthine walk, took refuge. We were scarcely seated, when my companion upbraided me for " exposing" her recent deceit, when she thought she had managed matters so nicely. I thanked her for managing to place me for a few moments in a posi- tion as embarrassing as could well be contrived, and we agreed to let the subject drop and be forgotten. My stay at the Brakes was pleasant enough, and my good hostess did all in her power to make it agreeable, contriving many a pleasant visit- to neighbors and excur- sions into the country. Mr. Gordon conducted me through his works, and made many scientific and mechanical diffi- culties clear to me by his patient explanations. CHAPTER   XIV. THE LOVERS' GLEN.  ABOUT a mile from the Gordon mansion there was a lovely, sequestered spot, on the slope of a richly-wooded hill, overlooking a romantic nook, called the "Lovers' Glen." Here one seemed remote from the busy haunts of men, be- yond the hearing even of the dull murmur of daily toil, un- offended by the sight of factory-chimneys, and unchoked by the heavy atmosphere of the blackened village. A succes- 3   50       BROCKLEY M00OR. sion of hills quite removed the spot from the unseemly sights and sounds, to which, in reality, it lay very near, To this retreat I often found my way, at a certain interval between daylight and dusk, when my hosts were absorbed in personal matters, and I was neither wanted nor missed. The evening before my intended departure I went, as usual, to my favorite haunt, little dreaming that I was to witness its terrible desecration. I had been there but a few minutes, when I heard voices in the glen; but, as the rustic swains and lassies had a traditional right to the place, I paid no great heed until I caught Mr. Gordon's name, as it was uttered by one of them. This excited my curiosity for a moment, especially as the next words were a volley of horrid oaths. This fixing my attention, I gazed at the men, one of whom I distinctly recognized as a smug- gler from Brockley Hall, whose features had been familiar to me for many years. He held a large bar of iron-like a crow-bar. The men both. seemed to be very angry, and their voices grew louder and their language more violent every instant. I began to tremble with an undefined dread, and was meditating a quiet escape, when I heard one say, "Dead men tell no tales! The same instant that heavy bar descended upon the head of the other. Merciful Heavens! Shall I ever forget the sound 6f that crashing blow, or the deep agony of the groan, as the wretched man fell to the ground? I tried to shriek for help, but, like one in a nightmare, no sound escaped my lips. The murderer fled with the speed of the deer across the wooded glen, and had disappeared before I had sum- moned strength and courage to quit my hiding-place. When I reached the spot where the victim lay, my heart grew sick, and the recollection of the revolting sight, to this hour, makes me shudder. A strange terror seized me, and, as though I had been the murderer, I sped home,   THE LOVERS' GLEN.        51 ran to my room, and fainted on the bed-where I was found some time later by Mrs. Gordon, who industriously plied restoratives and questions. I only confessed that I had been exceedingly frightened by some men quarreling, while I waited anxiously for Mr. Gordon's return. As soon as I could obtain a moment's privacy, I told him the story in all its sickening details. The man trembled and turned pale. "Say nothing of this-say nothing about it, to any one-you will have to go to court, and perhaps your evidence would send a poor wretch to eternity, and cannot bring the dead to life. In- deed; you had better keep your own counsel about it. The fact is, I am sorry that you have told me. It is always so much pleasanter to be ignorant of disagreeable things," and he paced the room with an anxious, nervous step, which made me feel as though I had done him a wrong- yet I pursued the matter. "But, sir, that poor body should not be left there!" "How pertinaciously you will keep the horrid thing before me! It is not my business to look after such things, I am not a coroner." To say more was useless. I went to bed with that mangled form before me, and the sound of the blow and that cry of agony echoing in my ear, and a consciousness that I was a moral coward in following the counsel of a weak man. I tried to drown such thoughts, but sleep re- fused to visit me that night, and, with the first glimmer of day, I rose and dressed, as if I might thus hasten the hour of turning my back upon a place which had come to have such terrible associations. At the early breakfast which was prepared for me, Mrs. Gordon exclaimed, "Oh, miss, there has been such a 'orrid murder in the woods 'ard by!"She enlarged upon the tragedy. "The poor man leaves a wife and six children-   52       BROCGLEY MOOR. his pockets were all rifled, for there was not a cent in them though he had just received his month's pay. He belonged to the mines-but 'ow pale you are I Do drink some wa- ter." I felt pale, and shuddered, but managed to control my voice to ask if they had any clew to the murderer. Mr. Gordon, hitherto silent, replied that they had a clew, but it was too soon to expect any information. With these delightful recollections, I left the Brakes. CHAPTER XV. 1HO1M AGAIN. How dull and dreary was the face of Nature, as I rolled along the road in that lumbering old coach I The heavy leaden sky seemed to deaden the very verdure of the grass and grain, and to silence the myriads of songsters that sat mutely on the boughs and branches, waiting for a promise of sunshine to assure them it was not a lengthened twilight-one of those days in which you think, each mo- ment, that in the next the clouds will pour torrents upon the already moistened earth, yet not a drop falls to end suspense and remove the load which, in spite of you, has seated itself upon your heart. I could not read-I could not even talk to the good-tempered dame that sat beside me-nor do more than reply in monosyllables to the cheery observations of the old gentleman who was opposite me, an'd who had promised my late host "to keep an eye on me" until he left me at White Cliff, his destination lying be- yond that point. I could only gaze at the blackened sky and wonder if the sun would ever penetrate the clouds that hung over us. And yet I found more sympathy in such a mood of Nature than if the sun had shone gladly, and the   HfOALE A GAIV.        53 birds been singing gaily, with every flower and every blade of grass or grain reflecting heaven's own beauty. Dark visions haunted me, and a nameless dread that I had not heard the last of the forest tragedy pursued me to the good vicar's door. Although unexpected there, I found a welcome. AIy old friend was not long in recognizing me, nor in conducting me to a chainber where I had slept on my way to school, but where this night I tossed in fcvcr- ish restlessness. Morning came, and, aftera frugal breakfast, the good man drove me to my home, leaving me at the door, that lie might " in no wise disturb the joy " that would follow my return. Home? yes, there it was! The same greenish-red pile of bricks. Treeless and shrubless in its surroundings, as I last had seen it, with every unshaded window still staring wide upon the desolate moor, dreary and forsaken as ever. I cautiously lifted the latch, and glided into the well-re- membered sitting-room. It was deserted, and had a damp, close smell, that told of loig disuse. I sought the kitchen, but Nelly was not there, though a bright fire burned upon the hearth, and a kettle was singing merrily, as old Tab lay purring before the glowing coals. I turned and mounted the creaking stairs to the door of my old room. My hand trembled for a moment ere I turned the knob-the next I stood within its familiar walls-scarcely conscious of the pale and wasted form that lay upon a couch where my small bed had once stood. '"It. is Agnes!" burst from my aunt's lips, as she turned her eyes from the sea upon which they had been riveted, to the intruder upon her reveries. Nelly sat beside her, and gazed at me in wonder. My aunt's thin hand beckoned me close to her. I kissed her pale face, and wept upon her neck.         i A long, sad silence. and the calm voice said, "Dear   54       BROCKLEY MOOR. Agnes, I thank Heaven that you have come! This room, unoccupied since you left us, has just been made ready for you, and I could not resist the wish to spend the hours of daylight here, until you came to cheer us with your happy young heart." "All rooms will now be bright Miss Agnes," added the faithful Nelly as she kissed me too. How long and solemn was the twilight of that day, and how unearthly were the tones of my aunt's voice1 as she read her favorite psalm, and thanked Heaven in faltering tones that her child had been restored to her. A long silence was abruptly broken by her saying: "Elric was here last night, Agnes. He has promised that, when I die, he will bury me, and that may be very soon, my child. You will promise not to interfere with him, for I have charged him minutely upon the matter." I promised, and choked down my sobs. Bat where was Elric, and how came he and my aunt in communication, I thought and would have asked, had not my aunt's silence rather awed me. The next afternoon came, and my ready feet would have been speeding me to the beach, had not something of the world's conventionalism held me, reminding me that I was no longer a child, and that the world was a severe censor. The restraint at last gave way to the yearning desire to look upon that sea once more, even though no human form were in my sight, and as the day waned I had obtained my aunt's permission to visit the dear shore again, provided I was housed before nightfall. Unchanged, and awful in its very changelessness, was the scene before me, as I stood almost in the footprints of child- hood. I could have wept as I gazed upon the lashing waves and heard the melancholy murmur. of the wind. A rush of feeling carried me back through receding years. Scenes   1i HOME A GAIN.       55 that had wellnigh faded from my memory arose before me with the freshness of yesterday. Again I was the helpless little child, the plaything of the waves and wind, wrestling with them in unequal warfare, when a human arm put forth its timely strength and rescued the frail object. I stood gazing and thinking, too absorbed to hear the footstep at which of old I used to spring, until I was startled by the familiar voice; and "Agnes," breathed so low and gently in my ear, recalled me to my senses, and Elric stood beside me. I would have sprung into his protecting arms as once I had done, but there he stood, almost gloomily gazing upon me, his hat in his hand, as if ready to recede from my sight. I marveled, and scarcely dared to speak. I forgot that four years had added inches to my stature, perhaps comeliness to the form that he had once borne in his stalwart arms, and I would have turned away in sorrow. "Has the grave given back its dead?" he gasped at length, as he took my hand in his, gazing steadily upon me for a few moments, when he turned abruptly and dashed away the tears that were coursing down his swarthy cheeks. "Agnes-Agnes! can those who knew your mother refuse to believe that the dead have returned to earth, when they gaze on you!" I said not a word, though I yearned to throw myself in- to his arms as I had done in years gone by. He caressed my hand which lay nervously in his. He called it a snow- flake, ready to melt away. He saw his ring still sparkling on the finger where he had placed it. He raised my hand, with so bright a smile it haunts me yet, and touched it with his lips. The long years of absence were thus forgot- ten., I was again the child of his protection, whose happi- ness was at his side. "' Dear Agnes, I cannot take you to my arms as former- ly, but you have grown so fair and fragile that it makes me   56       BROGKLEY MOOR. fear that these rude winds will blow you upon the waves as once they did. Come with me, then. We will seek a shel- tered walk, and you will tell me the history of these four long years." And then I put my arm through his, and talked as free- ly and as happily as in years before. He drew me to a mossy seat, and there we sat awhile in silence, until he took my hand again, and, with an emotion that he could not well control, he told me this must be our last meeting on the beach-that he would disturb me no more in my visits to this beloved resort; our future intercourse could no more be as the past; that from that day our paths di- verged, and-it wellnigh broke. his heart to say it-this must be our farewell interview, unless chance should bring us together again, or it should fall to his power to serve me. The devoted man could scarcely articulate the words he spoke; and I, in perfect amazement, asked him what he meant. "Agnes, you are young, lovely, and educated-fitted for any position in this world. I am a poor fisherman at best-a suspected character, in fact, whose acquaintance, not to say friendship, would compromise you in the esteem of this censorious world. Therefore, as I love you too well to jeopardize your future, you must know nothing of me or of my doings. Ay, Agnes, were you my own child as well as hers whom you recall too vividly, you would not be dearer to this poor aching heart, whose every throb is now for you!" I took his hardened hand in mine. "Dear Elric, hear me. Let me be your child. I will devote my days to make yours bright and happy. Tell me only that the world slan- ders you-that you pursue a lawful calling. Tell me but that, Elric, and I am ready to leave all and be your child.   HOME A GAIN.        57 I will share your toils and privations, and, if my gifts of education are of any account, they shall be devoted to him who is my only father, and whom I will never, never leave while his life can be gladdened by me." "Bless you, bless you, beloved child! but this may not be. Not for this have you been educated. Not for this have you returned to your childhood's haunts, resplendent in beauty and gifted in mind. My noble child! you may not make this sacrifice, if for no other cause, for this-that I cannot give your pure heart the assurance it craves. My pursuits are not lawful, according to England's code. Yet I defraud no man. I am just and true in all my dealings. Perchance I take from crowned heads what I devote to mitigate the woes of the poor and wretched. Nay, shrink not so, though I must confess myself a smuggler of the most desperate character, working in connection with the boldest outlaws of every clime, doomed now, alas! to yield body and soul to the fate that I have invoked, even finding in its wild ventures a fascination which, like the serpent's eye, has lured me to self-destruction! And yet, one word in self-defense: It is not the love of gold or sordid accumu- lation that has kept me thus, for the whole term of your pure life, recklessly facing every danger. Nay! nay! For oth- ers have I accumulated thousands and tens of thousands. For myself, I have my daily bread and the clothes I wear. Like the owls and bats with which I dwell, I slumber while others wake; and, upon the sea and land, I am defying the vigilance and penalties of armed law while they slumber on their downy beds! Do you understand all this, Agnes? Do you appreciate why we must part to-day, to meet again -perhaps no more, certainly only as circumstances of for- tune govern our destiny?" "Nay, Elric-father- say hot so. Forsake your un- righteous calling; abandon the miserable men with whom   58     EBROGKLEY MOOR. you consort. Waste not the energy of your strong and noble nature upon forbidden pursuits. Turn to hallowed employments-now, my father, here, on this very spot- with God's own type before you, resolve and promise- which with you is to do. Delay not another hour. And I-oh! can you not believe it?-I will take your hand and lead you to ways which you Will love, and be to you as though my name were yours and the right to call you father were mine by nature. Oh, you will not resist me when I plead in the name of God, and truth, and virtue! Think of your higher and better capabilities and your noble spirit must recoil from the degradation of a lawless life. Who knows so well as I the powers you suppress and bury in this rough career?" In the earnestness of my appeal, I had sunk upon nmy knees before him. Gently and tenderly he raised me, and, with desolation in the almost heart-broken voice, he answered almost in- audibly: "Too late, too late! Body and. soul are bartered!" "Not so," I pleaded; " it is never too late to turn from evil. If you are resistlessly fettered here, in this place, why, Elric, the world is wide, and there are honorable pur- suits open to you elsewhere." He turned and bade me look upon his brow, and see if it bore no mark to brand him an outlaw and fugitive from justice; he held forth his hand, and asked if it could be given in loyal and honest grasp. "No. I have invited my destiny; I have schooled my- self to confront it, and, though your almost angel-tones are pleading to save me, it is too late. So I may not listen now, dear Agnes "-and he tried to smile-" dear Agnes, nor should you ever pray for me if your rigid creed be true. You must not, at least, be blighted by public association   J 1fHOME1 ACAIN.               "59 with one upon whose birth rests the mark of reproach, upon whose youth was shed no blessing of home, upon whose graver years-but no matter, this is vain. Go, and remember me no more.  I must remember-you may forget." My heart was pained, and I tried to force back the tears. I saw the futility of further entreaties, and felt the delicacy of his purpose that we should meet no more. Summoning all my courage, therefore, I tried to say with cheerfulness the word of parting. "Not yet," he said, " it is my last privilege, and I' say adieu at your door-step, as in those happy days of other, times." Thus we walked slowly across the moor: he firm and true to the resolve he had made; I longing to indulge my grief, while womanly self-respect demanded a cheerful ac- quiescence in the haid decree. I finally gathered com- posure enough to tell him the fearful story of the murder at the Brakes and did not disguise the name of the perpe- trator of the deed. How he started! Even his gait became unsteady for a moment.  Child, are you not mistaken in the man? Zolma is not a man of violence and blood." "No mistake possible, Elric. I have seen that face and dreaded it too often. He seemed well known to Mr. Gor- don, who said that my life would not be safe for an hour if Zolma knew that I had the power to condemn him." "Ay," said Elric with bitter scorn, "Gordon has rea- son to know Zolma; and, if your life depends upon the man's ignorance of this your power, I fear you are in great peril. It is thus, Agnes, that I am galled to madness. Look at this Gordon, flourishing in affluence! How have his possessions been gained? In the eye of the world, by   60       BROCKLEY   MOOS. honest trade; but in truth by commerce with outlaws; by trafficking in the fruit of their unlawful toil. 'The smug- glers' depot,' we call, not unjustly, his pretentious mansion. Yet he has run no peril in gathering the wealth that fills it, for which he is courted and flattered, where he dwells in luxury with a vulgar wife, whom he decks with costly stuffs and fine jewels. He is the pampered patron of an indus- try of which others run all the hazards and bear all the' odium, while they reap but little of its profit. But the murder disturbs me. It is prophetic of trouble and danger; yet I need not agitate you with these forebodings. Thank God that I declared my purposes respecting you before hearing this dreadful recital " Again I entreated that he would quit Brockley, and assured him that, in spite of his remonstrances, when the approaching last duties to my aunt should release me, I would seek some way to lighten his cares and minister to the wants of his advancing years. I felt strong to meet the world's judgment while endeavoring to repay something of the debt he had laid upon me. He smiled as he repled: "How little you know the world, imy Agnes, in supposing its caustic judgment would look beneath the apparent incongruity of our associations for those purer motives that make your offered devotion so beautiful." My cheeks crimsoned, and I lowered my eyes as I felt the truth of his words. "Had your mother pleaded thus," he continued, "how different would have been my career! She could have saved me in making me forget that I was the child of shame. But the love that could have so transformed me was given to another, and I forgot that there was any thing better or higher than that love to live for. I launched upon the desperate career, from which her child, no less pure and   SHADOWS.          61 fair, now vainly strives to recall me. And thus we part." We stood on the tottering steps of the old porch, while he retained my hand in his lingering grasp, and, as if for a pretext for another moment's delay, returned to the subject of the murder, bidding me be ready to speak truly and boldly when required. Then, with one last pressure and look into my tearful face, he turned and was gone. CHAPTER XVI. SHADOWS. MY aunt slowly declined after my return. There were intervals when she seemed to rally, and we were lured to brief hope. These became less frequent and of shorter du- ration, until we resigned ourselves-Nelly and Hto simply wait, and watch the light of life gradually expire. It be- came a privilege to sit in quietness beside her, although she spoke rarely of her hopes and the vision that was un- folding to her spiritual gaze. She suffered, too, acutely at times, but the watchers scarcely knew it. During long years she had so schooled herself to silent submission that no one guessed her hopes or shared her sorrows. Even her bodily pains were never spoken of. And now, as the hour of mor- tal relief approached, her hopes growing brighter and more defined, while the sufferings of the body became more poig- nant and constant, she would have found it difficult, had she desired, to communicate the one or seek sympathy for the other. Still, there was a soothing influence in the very atmos- phere surrounding her-" a something of celestial light," which they will recognize who have kept vigil beside the couch of departing Faith. There is a light in the eye not   62       BROCKLEY   OOR. reflected from earthly fire, and a melody of voice already tuned to the angelic key-note. I often yearned to have my aunt break this silence. I would have prayed, like the prophet of old, for a portion of the spirit which was elevating her above the world, that I might tread more surely the rugged ways of life, when I should be left alone in my struggle with the world, so soon to come. Her bed had, at her own request, been drawn toward the windov, and when her eyes were not closed in slumber or meditation they were fixed with a sort of fascination up- on the changeless yet ever-changing sea. In one brief and painful conversation she assured me that she had made all the provision in her power for my immediate wants after her departure. She said this as if to dismiss the subject, not wishing her mind again to revert to worldly matters. She consoled me somewhat by saying that she had quite relented as to Elric; that during my absence at school certain circumstances had come to her knowledge which had softened her feelings toward him. Moreover, she had no hesitation in commending me to him, if I needed hereafter a friend., My pecuniary interests had been committed to the long-tried Vicar of White Cliff. Finally, she had exacted certain promises from Elric in respect to her burial, which she entreated me not to disre- gard. This was the only request she made of me, in addi- tion to that which bound me to have' the gable lighted at every nightfall, so long as the Moor House was under my control.   "CAL L DECAY ANP PEACE VDIVINE."      3 CHAPTER XVII. CALM DECAY AND PEACE DIVINE." SUMMER was waning. The cricket had chirped all night, and the mists of coming autumn were gathering on the moor. Yet that morning dawned so brightly, the birds sang so merrily, that one could scarcely dream the death of Nature was approaching. Th/at morning, I say-for I can think of no other on the moor like that upon which my aunt broke the silence of its earliest hours. "Dear Agnes! The bridegroom tarrieth not long." I sprang from my couch and stood beside her, as though I might find her ready for departure, adorned with the robe which she had been wearing for wellnigh threescore years. She fixed her eyes on me. "Darling"-she had never before thus called me-" it is very long since we have communed together. May we not have, before the day closes, our 'last supper?' " I cannot transcribe every incident of that day as the hours wore on and noonday passed, and toward its waning the vicalt arrived. For the first time the dying woman ap- peared uneasy and restless while waiting for the good man's coming. Her eyes were constantly turning from the sea, then calm as an infant's slumber, to the spotless table beside her.- "A simple altar by the bed, For high communion neatly spread, Chalice and plate, and snowy vest. We ate and drank, then calmly blest- All-mourners, one with dying breath, We sat and talked of Jesus' death."   "       BROCKLEY MOOR. Her smile was radiant and her voice thrilling, when God's minister-having read at her and our request the commenda- tory prayer-took leave of her, and pressed the wasted hand in a last adieu. There was no sadness in that fare- well as she murmured, "So soon to meet again." Nelly and I kept silent watch, not wishing to intrude our human voices upon an ear already catching heavenly strains. We could but mutely contemplate that myste- rious dissolution of soul and body. The sun was fast sink- ing, when she appeared to revive. It was one of those ex- traordinary renewals of physical force which we sometimes see as the vital spark goes slowly out. She looked placidly around, although her eye seemed already glazed. She extended her hand, cold and damp with the dew of death. As I took that hand and bowed my head upon it, kneeling by the bedside, she began to sing, in a voice, though feeble at first, yet clear and true, that matchless hymn so cherished among the simple Wesleyans, to the plaintive melody known well in New England as "Brattle Street "- "Ye fleeting charms of earth, farewell, No more for thee I sigh; " her voice growing clearer and stronger with every verse on to the very close- "The hand that strikes me to the dust Shall raise me to a crown "- when she closed her eyes and lips, to open them no more until she should sing the praises of the Lamb hereafter, and behold the heavenly Jerusalem. The sun, too, had gone down il splendor, and had thrown over all things its parting glory. Even that pale, wan face, so serene in its repose, was tinted with the rich autumnal hue; and there was a promise of a brighter world to us   THE DA RKE NED GABLE.       65 who gazed upon that western sky, in the gorgeous mingling of ermine and purple. Spellbound, as watchers always are, we were almost startled as a robin blroke the grave-like si-' lence, with a strain which seemed almost a requiem. That wonderful sympathy which Nature so often seems to mani- fest, but which only our chastened nature interprets, I ac- knowledged then, as the wild bird's notes died away and darkness stole over us, and recalled the tribute of one of our sweetest poets to the robin's notes: "No song so blends as theirs With calm decay and peace divine." Ah! we had it there, " sweet messenger of calm decay," and upon that tranquil countenance was stamped the i "peace divine." CHAPTER XVIII. THE DARKENED GABLE. BEFORE the curfew-bell was tolled Elric was beside me. He had missed the star-like sparkle of the gable, and it was to him a sign. He did not seek to console me, for I needed no consolation. He could not alter the decree which had made me, as far as I knew, without kindred in all the world. There was almost a feminine tenderness in his voice as he addressed me and made such simple arrangements as we agreed upon for my aunt's funeral. He declared that a promise bound him to bear her remains to a distant spot for burial; it enjoined also that there should be no display nor funeral gatherings which, at that day, in humble life, were frequently a dishonor to the dead, and a disgrace to the living. There was no parish church or chapel-of-ease. Some rudely-inclosed burial-place generally was found in   "       BROCKLEY 2MOOR. an obscure corner of every large farm or estate for the bet- ter class, while the poor fishermen were gathered to their fathers just outside of the moor, where the land sloped gently to the sea, and so they slept with their faces toward the ocean, where the first rays of the morning sunlight fell upon their uncared-for resting-places. It therefore seemed in nowise strange to the few who were asked, about three days later, to hear the last words said over'the departed in the very room which had been her favorite place during her lifetime-and then to be dismissed. The remains, they were told, were to be carried to a distant place for burial. There were a few last looks-a few sympathetic tears, for there are women who always weep at funerals tears of sensibility rather than of affection. For myself, I lbad my last look of the calm face as it lay bathed in the sunset glory of its passing hour, and I resisted all the morbid desire which is perhaps as natural as it is common, to gaze upon the lifeless clay, and, when others raised that gauzy cover- ing which concealed the features, I turned away. As long as I live, therefore, my last recollections of Aunt Rachel will be those of a face made beautiful in death by the light of triumphant faith, from which the radiance of heaven itself seemed to have dispelled all the ghastliness of mortality. CHAPTER XIX. A MOONLIGHT SCENE. NIGHT closed upon the solemn household. It was im- possible to settle one's self to ordinary occupations, while that heavy pall hung over the polished case, seeming to occupy so large a space in our once light and cheerful sit- ting-room. Who is insensible to that incomprehensible   A MOONLIGOIT SCENE.        67 awe which is inspired by the presence of death! So, while that dark object stood there mutely waiting for human aid to remove it forever from sight, no power of imagination could make it seem any thing else. The very drapery was rigid as if sculptured. No other hangings ever drooped in folds so straight as fell that heavy velvet cover; no piece of furniture could resemble that many-angled couch, which seemed in its blackness to absorb all the light of our ac- customed lamp and the candles besides, which I placed upon the sombre bier. A wreath of flowers which I had woven and laid upon the pall seemed to emit a sickly odor, and failed to speak with their accustomed eloquence of the joyful resurrection. It was a relief when Elric appeared about an hour after dusk, with three tried friends. I then first began to realize his mysterious intent. He whispered to me that I had better not follow. But neither, Nelly nor I could be diverted from seeing the last of our lost one, and with measured step we followed the dreary cortege across the moor-a strange procession moving on beneath the full bright moon that had, it may well be be- lieved, never before lighted the way of one of stranger group- ing and purpose. We reached the shore. The living and the dead were placed in a boat. Elric again whispered to me that I had better remain on shore, to which I answered only by taking my place quietly at the head of the coffin, for a mingling of horror and sorrow had rendered me speechless, and I shivered with fear and cold. What pen can do justice to that scene! The full moon shining in a cloudless sky- so coldly, almost rebukingly upon us; the stars were silent and countless witnesses; the waves reflecting in broken cir- cles the brilliancy of the sky, as each dip of the oars dis- turbed the mirror-like surface, over which we glided all but noiselessly, until we lost sight of land. At a given signal the boatmen lay upon their oars and for a moment we   68       BROGKLEY MOOR. floated with the tide toward land. The polished case was uncovered and raised by strong hands. One look of solici- tous inquiry was fixed on me, as Elric attached a massive chain and anchor to the coffin. There was no confusion nor awkward handlingr-quietly, gradually it was raised, and almost imperceptibly lowered to the surface of the sea, yet not for an instant endangering the safety of the frail bark. In a sepulchral voice, with impressive reverence, were ut- tered those words which the Church has consecrated:" 1fe commit her body to the deep." The waters opened with no rude splash, but with a dull, inexpressible sound of en- gulfment. The boat rocked for an instant as the waves closed over the devoted form, which at last was united in one broad, deep grave with the ,beloved of youth-and of that grave no visible token remained to tell me where my aunt went from mortal sight. The impressions of this scene are ineffaceable. We were all under the spell; even the grim faces of the boat- men told that they were roused from the stolidity of their daily life. Nature seemed to sympathize, for, as we turned toward the shore, we observed the sudden change that had come over sky and sea. Dark clouds covered the moon; not a star twinkled through the gathering darkness. A distant roar of waves, like the sound of rising anger, and a mournful wail of the wind, foreshadowed the coming storm, and quickened the exertions of the oarsmen. Our inexpe- rienced cheeks blanched with a half-defined terror as we thought of the dangers of our coast in one of those sudden tempests. But brave hearts and strong arms were with us, and I had more than one encouraging whisper as we seemed to ride over mimic mountains on our homeward way. With infinite difficulty we managed to land, and were thor- oughly drenched in the attempt. By that time the storm   A SOLITARY LIFE.        69 had come on with great fury. We sped across the moor, escorted by Elric and one of his comrades-that same moor which a few hours before we had traversed at funeral pace under the fairest moonlight, and now and then a vivid flash of lightning showed us for an instant where we were, leav- ing us in greater darkness than before., We reached home, and, before quitting us, Elric had mounted to the gable, which, in the excitement of leaving, had not been lighted, and, after putting the beacon-lamp in its place, he pleaded the possibility of being needed on the coasts, as a wreck might easily be the result of this fearful storm. No persuasion could induce him to accept any hos- pitality nor come to the fireside, which Nelly lost no time in making bright and warm. And there we sat, until the break of day brought a lull in the tempest; and, that there might be something to divide that dark and memorable yesterday from its to-morrow, we went to our beds, and, with that reaction which happily is sent to the excited mind and wearied frame, I sank into dreamless and heavy slumber until wellnigh noonday. CHAPTER    XX. A SOLITARY LIFE. A DAY or two later, I had a visit from the Vicar of White Cliff, now my guardian. The kind old man came in the full expectation of taking me back to the vicarage, and was quite unprepared for the determination I announced of remaining at present in the old Moor House with my faithful Nelly. That house with its contents had been willed to me, in addition to a few hundred pounds which my aunt had hoarded for my use in straitened days. To   70       BROUKLE Y MO OR. Nelly, who was also in the " sere and yellow leaf," there was left a small annuity, and, as she was almost too old even for my few requirements, I settled her at once in two of the most cheerful rooms of this "Castle Rackrent," tell- ing her it should be my home, too, when I was not at work. For a week or two, Nellie and I wandered like spectres through the old house, exploring rooms in which we ex- pected not vainly to find hidden treasures, and in which I did contrive to disentomb several relics of by-gone years, and give to the few rooms which I intended to occupy a cheerful and civilized aspect. There were boxes of old- fashioned china, and old engravings, odd and apocryphal in their subjects. There was a wonderful chest or two filled with the gatherings of my aunt's sailor-lover. Altogether, I contrived to transform my small suite of rooms, and, when all was arranged, scarcely recognized my old abode. "The old arm-chair" was now my own throne, and the family Bible, on the small, round stand, stood where my aunt had studied it for many a year. Having set my house in order, I turned my thoughts to consider some profitable occupa- tion; and it seemed like a violation of the compact be- tween the dead and myself, that I should seek a livelihood in any other pursuit than teaching. CHAPTER XXI. MY FIRST EXPERIMENT. BEFORE many weeks had passed, I received my "first call "-a kind letter from my guardian, telling me, if I per sisted in my independent notions I might like to know that an application had been made to him for a governess   IlMY FIRST EXVPERIMENT.       71 whom he could safely recommend. He had given my name and address, and a few days later I was requested to pre- sent myself at Whitford Manor-House, where three little. girls were to be committed to my care, for which I was offered the modest salary of twenty pounds a year and all found! Terms, from which a first-class cook would now turn in scorn, did not discourage me from the offered trial. I had not seen my patrons, when I presented myself at the manor-house, and it was with varied emotions that I was ushered into their presence. To my surprise, I was cordially, almost affectionately welcomed, congratulated on my safe arrival, and speedily conducted with some osten- tation to a chamber that seemed to me sumptuously fur- nished, where I was invited to " make myself at home." Left to my meditations, I looked about me and found nmy self reflected from different points in the mirrors that mul- tiplied my image, and surrounded with all that a fastidious taste could require, and much more than was necessary to satisfy my modest desires, either for comfort or for recrea- tion. I had arranged all things to my satisfaction, when Mrs. Whitford returned to take me to the children, to show me the nursery and school-room, and finally conduct me to dinner. A seat was placed for me upon Mr. Whitford's right, between himself and one of the children, who dined with their parents. Before partaking of the generous fare, which was more varied and sumptuously served than at any table at which I had ever sat, Mr. Whitford pro- posed a preliminary toast to the " new governess," and my health was drunk by the whole party-the children drink- ing diluted claret. "My dear Miss Trenham, all6w me to express my heart- felt wish that you may find at the Whitford Manor-House -a home; and in myself and lady-parents, not ratrons;   and these precious children-objects of your tender care and solicitude!" I bowed in acknowledgment of the wish, and, in reply, expressed the hope that I might be found duly sensible of all their kind attentions, and prove my gratitude by devo- tion to my duty. "Very- well said, my dear, very well said!" and the father of the family patted my check most patronizingly, or rather, most paternally, at. which his good'lady took up the theme.  "Miss Trenham, without doubt, will soon perceive that we do every thing we can to make her forget her depend- ent position-I mean, dependent in a limited sense, to be sure.-Now, my dear girl, most people treat a governess as if she were a menial and without sensibility. We do not think such a course of treatment would reflect any credit upon ourselves. It is very obvious that we should have great confidence in one to whom we commit the highest  interests of our darling offspring, and consequently one to whom we depute this responsible task is, or should be, our di equal-consequently, again, entitled to the same considera- tion that we claim for ourselves!") After this flourish of rhetoric and achievement of logic, q in which the governess was fairly demonstrated to be a  g being of ordinary if not of superior mould, the lady bent frn over her cooling soup, and the formalities of the meal pro- gressed without interruption.               YC After dinner I saw nothing of the little ones to whom 0 my heart was yearning, but renewed their acquaintance in  due time the following morning.              Co Their gentleness and loveliness cannot be exaggerated. C They were Rosa, Ella, and the resistless little Lilian, or -e Lily as we called her, as beautiful as her name, and as fra-abc gile as the flower she so much resembled. Even now in.   incy can I gaze in those eyes of heavenly transparency nd feel the warm touch of those rosy lips, that would turn often to my cheek, and that fairy hand! I never before ad petted a young child, and knew nothing of the velvet- ke softness and exquisite delicacy of a fair clhild's hand. y heart was quite lost to her before a week had passed, id at her plaintive request before the lapse of two weeks e shared, my couch, sleeping beside me, with her white ms entwining my neck, and warm breath playing on my eek all night. Ay! I wondered of what the mother's art was made, that she could spare this luxury to a 'anger. Poor little timid thing! she had suffered un- amred-of torments'in her lonely crib, before she was nsplanted to my care. The sisters were considerably older-brightl intelligent Idren, and, had I been permitted to pursue my own way h them, undisturbed by the patronizing attentions of the ents, my life had been nearly a paradise. If a guest called at the house, even in the hours of ly, I was summoned to the drawing-room and intro- ed as the governess in whom they were so well pleased. he evening my musical attainments were brought in re- dition, and the governess was expected to entertain the sts with a full display of them. Young gentlemen were ly introduced, but, as if to avoid all responsibility should susceptible heart be damaged, they invariably learned iltaneously with my name the fact of my position. ng ladies were presented with the same safeuarlds. ladies and old gentlemen were all introduced, but W ere informed as to the "  ennobling task" that had been nitted to me. Although I was in no wise ashamed of )osition, and regarded it as one of honor and indepen- e, and never dreamed of invading the sacred ranks " me, yet my spirit was often chafed, and my soul re- 4   74       .B0OCKLEY MOOR. belied at this " affectionate" patronage, which I was forced to receive most graciously, and was expected to be very grateful that I was not "treated like a menial." CHAPTER    XXII. "OW RELATIONS. "MY dear," said Mrs. Whitford, one morning at break- fast, "where did the Trenhams come from-the branch, I mean, from whom you are descended?" I confessed my ignorance of my father's ancestry-said that I had lost both parents in infancy-but had been told' that my father was an artist from the south of England. "Oh, an artist! And who was your mother, my dear?" "My mother was Agnes Alwyn, a farmer's daughter." "Oh, a farmer's daughter! I suppose she was very beautiful, and your father fell in love with her beauty." "She was very beautiful, and not less refined and ac- complished, and the marriage was one of mutual affection." "Oh, then she was educated; indeed, she must have been if your father was an artist. Artists are so fastid- ious!" I acquiesced, and, wishing the subject of discussion ihanged, asked some question as to the children's improve- ment. , She evaded an answer, and rather abruptly asked me if I knew why my predecessor had been discharged; and, of course, being quite ignorant, I was informed that the sanctity of Whitford Manor-House had been invaded by a host of low relations, who continued their visits after re- monstrance, and the unfortunate object of their devotion had to seek less exclusive quarters.   "OW RELATIONS    . 75 The lady watched me closely to perceive the effect of such remarkable disclosures; but, not comprehending the point at which she was aiming, I could only be silent, and await the application of her discourse y lent and Mr. Whitford, in very deliberate tones, asked if I had anv relatives of that character, for it had been a sine qua non of his demand upon the vicar, who had assured him that the person recommended was in this respect most desirable. "It may seem very arbitrary," he added, " to insist that a person shall have no low relatives, but I am convinced that nothing else will answer; for, if a wuoman have relatives (and a governess can only have low relatives), they will seek her out clandestinely, if not openly," and he thumped the table in energetic support of his argument. I assured him that I had not a relative in the world high or low, to my knowledge, hoping with that assurance to escape to my room-; but not yet. "We asked, Miss Trenham," added thelady, apologeti- cally, "because a shockingly fierce-looking man has been seen around these grounds several times, some days since. Mr.. Whitford confronted the rough creature, and, in apoo- gy for his intrusion, he asked for Miss Trenham; that is, he did not ask to see you, but said he wanted to know if yo were well. You lay imagine he departed speedily, with a solemn injunction to be seen here no more, if he cared to have you keep your present situation." Was it in woman's heart to drive back the tears which blinded me, though they dared not moisten my check? I bit my lip, but what could I say, as the picture of the "rough creature "was brought so plainly before me that I could not fail to recognize the well-beloved original? My silence misconstrued, and the inexorable woman went on: "One more word, Miss Trenham. If this man be not /a relative, I hope lie is no lover."   '76       BROCKLEY MiOOR. "Madam, he is neither relative nor lover, but one who  from my childhood has been all that the fondest father could be to a poor, desolate, and orphaned child. Though his looks are so 'shockingly fierce' that even Mr. Whit- ford took alarm, his heart is gentle, and his soul is noble, albeit his appearance is sinister." "I dare say, miss, he is very good in his place, but he must not come here, and you had better tell him so the next time you meet him in your walks."  "I never meet him, madam," I indignantly replied. "I have had no communication with him for many months." "So much the better. I should think my pure, spotless children contaminated should their governess stop to par- ley with such as he! But, should this happen, I feel bound to tell you, that day you would be required to leave Whit- ford Manor-House," and she rose from the table, sweeping past me with the air of an offended duchess. Alas, how expediency will control the speech and sub- due the spirit! I was silent, and inwardly hated myself for my submission. Oh, what refreshment there is in a little child's society, when the heart is wounded by such uncalled-for thrusts, and how instinctively a child knows how to heal and cheer! How quickly it perceives sadness in the voice'or moisture upon the eyelid, and what magnetism is there in the soft touch of the pure lips, or the quiet nestling to the aching heart! And thus those precious little ones would lavish on me every endearing name and gentle caress, and I did not remember the few crosses of my present life, with Lily seated on my knee, playing with my curls; Rose, seated at my feet, reading to us in the sweetest of voices and most perfect of accents; while Ella-lazy Ella, as we called the dreamy child-with her head upon my shoulder, rapt in reverie, seemed only half to hear the wondrous narratives   A  IWIEIND IXN NEED.      7 of history,' with which our leisure hours were often be- guiled. Such pictures were often rudely disturbed by the abrupt entrance of their busy mother to summon us to the drawing-room to see some visitors and help her to enter- tain them. Thus things went on for more than a year, my patrons seeming to be satisfied. No more "low relations" had appeared upon the scene, to terrify or offend, and I lived in a paradisiacal atmosphere compared with the experience of many., True, I was never permitted for one instant to forget, nor was any other likely not to remember, that Miss Alvyn was "our governess." Time sped swiftly, as it always does when it carries happiness on its wing. I sometimes trembled lest some- thing should occur to break up my relations with the family, as my attachment to the children had increased with the months of my stay with them. I was conscious that they had made great improvement inl their studies; as for their morale, I felt very little credit was due to me- that they were loving, trustful, and industrious, ever per- fectly obedient and respectful. In their play-hours, how- tver,- they were as merry as crickets, and frolicsome as kit- lens. I have seen many children since those fair girls vere my pupils, but none were just like that sweet trio, vhom I called my "Three Graces." CHAPTER     XXIII. A?RIERN:D IN NEED. IT happened one morning that, in the letter-bag, the tre event of a letter addressed to me brought almost a insure from my gracious patron, and, according me a per-   78       BROOKLEY MOOR. mission to open it which was wellnigh a command, I rather risked his displeasure by declaring that it was from my guardian at White Cliff. The post-mark had already been well studied, and I put the epistle in my pocket, until I could read its contents at leisure in my room. An unde- fined fear seized me as I broke its seal, and my tranquillity of mind was not restored as I read as follows: "DEAR AGNES: How long it is since I have heard from you, and I can only suppose you have not left Whitford Manor-House! I would much like to see you and have an hour's chat with you upon certain matters, but my parish duties at this moment make it impossible. One of your late aunt's friends is in great peril just now, and I would like to know if your aunt ever confided to you the codicil to her will signed - , upon such a day, in favor of her aged servant Nelly. I have the impression that such a document was committed to you, although it was origi- nally intended to be a codicil to the will which I retain; this necessity, you remember, was obviated by the fact of your aunt's purchasing the annuity for her servant before her death, which was practically annulling the codicil. This, however, is not the point-which is to fix precisely the date. According to my private diary, for I was a wit- ness, it was upon the 10th of May, 18-, and the night pre- vious to that which you spent at the vicarage on your way from school. If you have not the paper in question, have you any exact recollection ormemorandum of your arrival at Brockley Moor? There is a great deal at stake, for one of the witnesses to this instrument is accused of having committed a foul murder on the evening of that same 10th of May at the Brakes, some twenty-five miles or more from Brockley, when I know to almost a certainty that he was closeted with your aunt and myself at the same hour, in presence also of the attorney, who, most unhappily, has   A FRIEND IN NEED.        79 just sailed for the East Indies, and cannot be reached for many months. I have caused proceedings to be stayed until I could communicate with you. I beg you to act promptly, for it is truly a matter of life and death, etc., etc.           VICAR OF WHTE CLIFF." What an abyss seemed to open before me! My pre- sentiment was to be realized that I should hear again of that dark deed. I was in utter bewilderment for a mo- ment as to what I should do to obey the command to act promptly. My diary and few private papers, among which, indeed, was the precious codicil, were all far away at Brockley Moor, while the keys of my desk were in my pocket. But what was the worth of papers and dates, when I had the knowledge to clear up the mystery? I did not need a diary to tell me when I reached home after four years' absence, nor did I need a witness to de- clare the fiendish work of that dark evening! Would I not write at once to Mr. Gordon, to whom I told the whole story, not even withholding my knowledge of the mur- derer's name? Of course he would not see the innocent suffer, and there was joy in the thought. I would serve Elric; perhaps I could save him from a more fearful d 'th than:that from which he rescued me so many years ago. I quickly put a few things in a bag, and, almost within an hour after the arrival of my letter, I was on my way to White Cliff. Very reluctantly was my leave of absence granted; and as curious were my patrons to extort from me a recital of all my troubles. Indeed, with great diffi- culty I obtained my overdue salary. All that, in the hurry of getting off, made less impression upon me than the sor- rowful acquiescence of the children-their entreaties that I would soon return, and the heart-breaking cry of my little Lilly, that she could never love another governess,   80       BROOCKLEY MOO2. while she was sure I would never come back and teach her any more-words wellnigh prophetic! CHAPTER XXIV. THE TRIAL. How slowly the lumbering old coach seemed to get up the hills which stretched between the manor-house and the distant coast! At any rate, there seemed to be a little jus- tification for creeping up a slope; but to my agitated mind there did not seem a bit of reason for that very cautious descent, and I ventured to say so to the hardy old Jehu who had the reins. "Lor', miss, I am carrying his majesty's mails, and wouldn't I hurry on faster, if it was safe? Why, you see, this road is what ye'd call a rolling-road; and what with putting on the drag in going down-hill, and putting on an- other pair when you'd be getting up-hill, it takes an on- common lot of time and patience. Be ye going to a wed- din' orfun'ral, that ye grudge the 'lotted time? We will be there afore sunset; and none of them ceremonies come off after sundown, so don't yer be discouraged." I smiled at the old man's odd consolation, and was in a subdued spirit of endurance when, true to the "'lotted time," just before sundown, the broad expanse of ocean suddenly lay before us. We stopped at the White-Cliff booking-office, and I descended. A short talk with my guardian convinced him and my- self that, to strengthen my testimony, I should procure the paper and be accurate as to dates. The good old man spoke solemnly to me of the great responsibility I had upon me, for not having fearlessly braved the consequences of an immediate avowal of my   THE, TRIAL.         81 :knowledge at the time of the murder. When I mentioned names, and repeated the counsetiat had ben urged  me, he started with amazement. "Can you not be mistaken?  Mr. Gordon, of the Brakes, and his chief workman, Zolma, are the principal witnesses against the accused! Gordon swears that he himself saw Elric with his victim about an hour before the murder must have taken place, just after he had given the poor man a large sum of money to pay several underwork- men. It was my turn to exclaim: "Utterly impossible I An hour before the fearful trans- action, Gordon was seated at his own dinner-table, and, to my knowledge, had been in his house for an hour or two before dinner!" The more we compared notes, the more contradictory to truth seemed all reports and testimony thus far. We were obliged to fear that a conspiracy had been formed against our unfortunate friend, and there seemed no time to be lost in gathering up such evidence as we could to prove his innocence, To do this, I must start that same night for Brockley Moor, and that, too, alone and on horsebaclk. t w"as impossible for the vicar to go with me and, as I had become quite proficient in horsemanship dur- ing my residence with the Whitfords, I did not hesitate to mount the Vicar's steady steed and gallop across the coun- try to my home of long ago. I startled old Nelly from her first sleep, although-it was not much past nine when I knocked at the familiar door, which was very securely locked, although a strong man's foot would easily have un- hinged the frail barrier. To my joy, the codicil in question was found-that alone would prove an alibi; and I began seriously to question whether, after all, I need tell what I knew of the murder. There, beneath my aunt's character-   82       BROCKLEY MOOR. istic signature, following the vicar's, was simply-"Elric, 10th May, 18-." Surely there was now no need of my witness, and, armed with such a weapon, my guardian might fight the battle without me, and I would return to my post of duty. Not so thought the vicar, however, to whom I galloped back as soon as the day dawned, and with whom it was arranged that I should go to the town where the trial was to take place, and where we presented ourselves the evening before the case came on. Fearing no recognition in so strange a place early in the morning after our arrival, I was exploring the town, which was one of many attrac- tions, and, in my rambles encountered Mr. Gordon. It is difficult to say who was the most startled-he, by the un- expected apparition, or I by a secret fear and dread of the man's malignity. After a moment's hesitation, he came smilingly toward me with extended hand. "My dear Miss Alwyn, I was but this morning speak- ing of you. You remember that dreadful scene enacted in the copse quite near the Brakes; it was such a pity that you did not appear at the coroner's inquest; and hasten the ends of justice. I did not know where on earth to find you, nor did I like to repeat what you had told me in such strict confidence, and so I allowed things to take their course. But murder always comes out, and at last we have the fiendish assassin in our power. However," he added, slightly discomposed, "you were mistaken in the man. Zolma, it appears, was in Scoland at the time; the wretch who committed the deed is aNotorious outlaw, call- ing himself Elric. The officers of the\law have had him in pursuit for many a year; and it was arare chance that the constables caught -him at last, when he was surprised some- where on the coast." I had presence of mind enough /to keep silence and reserve my defense-for another audience. At this moment,   THE TR IAL.         8 83 a man was seen approaching, and Gordon hastily crossed the street. That other was Zolma; he had received some warning sign undoubtedly, for I saw him glance toward Gordon, and, after an almost imperceptible pause, lie con- tinued on Ilis way, turning into a side street. I prayed for strength, for I felt myself cnvironed with mischief and malice. Another day and still another passed before I was called to give my evidence. My name was asked, my occupation noted, and sundry questions, relevant or not I do not know, were put and answered before the vital matter was touched. Did I kiow the prisoner? I then first looked toward the dock, and-was it Elric who stood within? Have you' ever seen the proud eagle, entrapped from his nest on the mnountain-peak and shut within a narrow cage? Have you seen the droop of his once proud head, and the mist over that eye which was accustomed to gaze with unshrinking steadiness at the noonday sun? Like that captive bird stood my poor, unhappy Elric, fettered and bound before that captious crowd. His cheek was ashy; his light eye dull and heavy; and those locks, once like the raven's wing, now white as the driven snow! Yet, I knew his heart was not humbled, nor his spirit fettered; there was sorrow in his eye, not shame; and it was not guilt that bowed the stalwart frame. Oh! I prayed for an instant as I had never prayed before, and I felt stronger to speak "the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth!" "Have the goodness, Miss Trenham, to tell us upon what day and at what hour you witnessed the murder." I was able to, answer the question with almost minute accuracy. i' Why did you not summon aid at once?" I replied that death was instantaneous, and the victim was at once beyond the power of human aid; but that I   8S4      -1tSDL;UUJIA Ld I1 U U/I. I .1 ran directly to Mr. Gordon's house, and, as soon as I found that gentleman, told him the whole story, describing and identifying the murderer as one whom for many years I had known by sight. I recounted, too, the advice I had received from Mr. Gordon. Did you tell no other person?" "I told the prisoner on the following day, who coun- seled me to make the matter known to the proper authori- ties, which I dreaded to do, from an unwillingness to be the means of another's death." "How long have you known the prisoner?" ': During my whole life I have seen more or less of him." How long have you known Zolma?" "By sight, for many years." "Did you know Elric to be a bad character?" "I knew him to bear a bad reputation, but never knew him to commit any offense, nor do I believe him to be a person capable of doing such a deed as that of which he was accused." ' Do you know Zolma to be a bad man?  I knew nothing of his character before I saw him kill Allen." "Could you not in the twilight and in the distance have - mistaken Elric for Zolma?" "No. Such a mistake was not possible. Moreover, I possess a paper which was witnessed by Elric upon the day of the murder, almost at the very hour, signed by his own hand at Brockley, some twenty-five miles distant." But I need not detail the examination. I told my story simply: all I had witnessed, all I had revealed to Mr. Gor- don. The minutest link in the chain of evidence was pres- ent to my quickened memory, and found its place in the recital. I was told that my testimony was clear, distinctly given, Y'   ,nd TRIAL. and not to be confused by cross-questionings or subtile sug- gestions of the state counsel. I repeated the substanhe of my last interview with Mr. Gordon at our chance meeting, and a suppressed murmur went through the audience. My story finished, I looked again at the prisoner, whose eye was once more flashing, as he stood erect with a proud look and kindling cheek. I knew he longed to burst the restraints which held him, and, had it been seem- ly, I would as much have longed to put myself beside him and comforted him with kindly words and hope of better and wiser days. I did not even give him a parting look, as I left the crowded room and stifling atmosphere, led out by his counsel, who was generous in his professions of admiration :and regard. I could only feel remorse and heavy-heartedness that I had acted with so much weak- ness, nay; cowardice at the time Zhen my testimony would have made the matter clear, and thus have saved my faith- ful friend so much anguish of mind and body. The venerable vicar followcd me as a witness, and, as I have said, his statements added to the attested paper would have clearly proved an abEi. So, after all, as far is Elric was concerned, there was not much satisfaction lerived from my evidence, and I stood there rather as tile "user of Zolma, while I proclaimed the perjury and vil- tiny of one under whose roof I had been sheltered and at those table I had broken bread. The result of the trial may be anticipated: Elric was tonournced NOT GULTr, amid the acclamations of the crowd. I court-room, and a sympathizing band of brothers would ive carried him off triumphantly on their shoulders, had not been wiser than they, and escaped unnoticed through oms inaccessible to the crowd. I prayed his counsel to ad him to me before I left the town, which I intended to the same cveninig.   8BROCKLEY iMOOR. CHAPTER XXV. THE TABLES TURNED. ] DID not leave that evening, nor did I have the visit from Elric for which I had begged. le and I met the following morning however to ge  ome prelminary testimony as to the charge which had already been brought against Zolma for murder, and Gordon as accessory, while the latter was also arraigned for perjury.  It was necessary for Elric to tell what he- knew of Zclma's movements--it being generally suspected that Elric was the commander of the fishing fleet to which Zolma's boat belonged. e was brought forward to be sworn his name was asked. Elric!" he replied, sternly. "Your whole name, sir." "Elric-I have no other." "Your surname is wanted-your father's name!" "' I have never borne my father's name." "No trifling, sir I Then give your mother's name." "Never! so help me Heaven! I am Elric, and Elric only. I have no surname, and no man on earth ever called me mister. Will that answer?" The advocate was touched as well as perplexed, and replied more blandly that a simple Christian name did not legally identify a witness. Then Elric broke forth in a voice that awed and silenced the now gaping crowd: "I should be Elric Trenor. I am the first-born of the late Earl of Durreigh." Thus was he sworn, amid the consternation of his hearers and the confusion of the learned counselors.   IN DISGRA CE.        87  It was a bitter history, briefly told. It unsealed vol- umes to me. To my still youthful mind his life became a stirring romance, and he a hero. To me it already told more than to others, and was destined to reveal yet more. I had but to repeat the story already related when I sought to vindicate Elric. His name once cleared of this fearful crime, I had no desire to be instrumental in fastening it upon others, and I confess to a secret satisfaction upon hearing that the same hour that saw Elric acquitted, found Gordon and his minion on their way to the nearest seaport, where they made good their escape. Those were not the days of land or ocean telegraphy, and the rapid move- ments of the culprits defied the slow machinery of police detection. Years after, I simply learned that the Gordon family had migrated to the United States, where they easily severed their tics to the past and renewed life in the activi- ties of the busy New World, in which it is more impor- tant to know what men are in capability than what they have been in station or character. Of Zolma's career I have never learned any thing, and have been quite content with my ignorance. CHAPTER    XXVI. IN DISGRACE. A STnLxGE blank seemed to be before me, as I seated myself once more in the old coach on my way back to the Whitfords. Elric was not to be persuaded to an interview, and, in reply to my earnest messages to see him before leaving the town, I received the following lines:   88       BROCKLEY MOOR. "Believe it is in your own interest and for your own hap- piness only, that I resist the almost unconquerable desire to see you, perchance, for the last time in life. It is better for you to believe me insensible to your heroism and gen- erosity, and to allow you to suppose that the gloomy out- law is all that the world has pictured him, and no meet compa/nion for youth, beauty, and purity. Blot out, if you can, the memory of any past connected with the suspected outcast. One whose hands have been in fetters, and who has been thought capable, nay, most likely, to crimson those hands in another's blood, should never claim acquaint- ance, much less friendship, with that peerless woman who has saved him from .an ignominious fate. When he can serve her, or pay back one-thousandth part of the debt he owes she will then find a help at hand in her ever-faith- ful-hearted I studied again those very conclusive words; there was alas I now no chance of softening his hard lot, or to sweeten his embittered life. I was ready to go with him, as I would have gone with a father, to any corner of the earth, where a filial ministry might win back hope to his spirit, and gentleness to his speech. Why could he not adopt me as his daughter? and why could not the gifts and talents, which to his mind made the barrier -between us, have been consecrated to reclaim one soul which seemed to be going farther and farther from heavenly hope and encouragement? How little I then knew of the world, and how shocked I would have been, to see mirrored before me the world's estimation of such a feminine Quixotism I We shall see enough of the Whitfords' appreciation of what circum- stances had forced upon me, to know pretty well how such as they would have characterized my unworldly mission.   IN D IS GRA CE.       89 I reached the manor-house quite late in the evening, cold, most unromantically hungry and wearied; a light was burning in the drawing-room and in the children's sleeping- room, and my heart beat with joyful anticipation as I raised the massive knocker and rung the bell. The countenance of the waiter had a peculiar expression as he admitted me to the august presence of. my late patrons. "Well really, miss, I did not think you Would have the audacity to return here. Your trunk has been sent to the coach-office, and we are hourly expecting a respectable per- son to replace you"-was the unexpected welcome that greeted me from one who had inaugurated our relations with a promise of fatherly care. I could but ask in amazement what offense I had coim- mitted. The gentleman pointed to the newspaper which lay near him, where an exaggerated account of my conduct as witness had found its way. It was intended to be very complimentary, but no woman likes to be made the subject of such universal criticism. Even the " neat-fitting gloves, which covered a pair of beautiful hands," were noticed, a stray ringlet was described, eyes, teeth, and complexion, came under observation. Why all this should so grieve the Whitfords, I could not imagine; no allusion had been made to my position in their household, and certainly I was not accused of having compromised either feminine delicacy or respectability in any way. I read the article, as I had been commanded to do, and meekly asked wherein I had transgressed. "For being found in such a vile mess," replied the lady, hitherto silent. It was in vain to declare that I had had no choice. There stood this fact-I had avowed a life-long acquaint- ance with a doubtful character; I had professed a friend- ship for a man arraigned for murder, suspected to have   90o    BJROCKLEY   O OOR. been a smuggler-perchance a pirate, if Gordon were to be believed.  "Your character is endangered, miss, and those who have charge of our children, eat at our table, and enter- tain our guests, must be as spotless as Caesar's wife. I do not accuse you of any immorality, although there is some- thing very romantic, I must confess, in your devotion to that swarthy outlaw; the same, I fancy, who once showed his villainous features to me near our gates. Tell me, hon- estly now, what is the nature of your regard for him; per- haps I can facilitate your views in some manner, although I cannot retain you as my daughters' governess." It is difficult to say how I restrained the speech that rose to my lips at such insulting patronage, except that, before I could say any thing, the nursery-maid rushed in exclaiming that Miss Lily had heard Miss Alwyn's voice, and was crying so bitterly that her nurse feared she would die. Mrs. Whitford again broke out: "Oh heartless, wicked girl if that child dies, I will always say her death is your work! To proclaim to the world your low connections, when you had such a happy, elevating home with us And poor Lily was sickening even before you went off on your escapade-and now almost dying, as she is, you have come back to revive her sorrow." Lily almost dying!"I exclaimed, forgetting my wrath and the low taunts and cruel insults of her parents. "Pray let me go to her; I will nurse her as no other can:" The mother's heart was softer than the father's, for she caught at the idea that tranquillity was now the one thing needed for her little one; and obtaining permission, most reluctantly given by the husband, she bade me mount to the well-known nursery. I never sprang up those stairs so rapidly, hunger and fatigue forgotten, as I clasped my dar-   IN DISGAGE.         01 ling in my arms. Alas I the havoc of disease in so short an absence! Those golden curls, once my pride and care, were now a tangled mass, the cheeks were scarlet, and those clear blue eyes were wild in their glare! Yet she knew me, and tried to speak coherently, and to ask why I did not come back sooner. I bathed her burning brow, and cooled the aching head, and gently combed the matted curls, and held her in my arms until she and I both were glad to lie down as in days of old. But it had long been a foreboding with me, that the child was too fair a flower to flourish in earthly soil. I had always half dreaded to admit the thought that she would be called to brighter worlds before the mists. of this should settle upon her. Those angel-wings were now unfolding, and, before a week rolled by, another sweet innocent was singing the "Thrice Holy." Our Lily was transplanted! but who dared to mourn? Upjn my bosom was the fair head pillowed as she said her last good-night. I caught the fragrance of the dying flower. In vain the mother wept agonizing tears, and the father paced the chamber, from which sunlight and laughter had departed, and where the patter of those little feet would be heard no more. Was my heart already hard- ened, that I could compose so quietly those wax-like feat- ures, and with my own hands arrange, in her own sweet and simple robe of white, the marble form ere it was raised forever from the couch where it had so often slumbered in my arms?"It is well with the child," I murmured to the mother, as she bent over the tiny and beautiful temple where that sweet spirit had dwelt for a brief day. I remained in the stricken hbuschold until the stone was replaced over the old tomb, where all that was mortal of my darling was reverently laid, and, with the echoes of that mournful giving of " dust to. dust" still lingering in   ,92       VKZUSji^ UALU Z U U. N my heart, I took leave of the bereaved parents and sisters, the former much stricken, but in no wise relenting in their decree toward me, while the grief of the elder girls brought the first tears that had dimmed my eyes since our Lily faded from us, and I longed to remain with the children. I tried to comfort them with words of hope, which they did not understand, and to which they said, "Oh, if you had not gone away, perhaps Lily would not have died." "Was every thing to turn to ashes that I touched?" 'I asked myself this as I went back again to White Cliff over the " rolling road," not much caring now that we walked slowly up-hill and dragged down again a little faster. The "'lotted time" brought us to the accustomed stopping- place. Another night at the White Cliff vicarage, and then a long interval of rest at the Moor House with aged and faithful Nelly. Then I had plenty of leisure to review the circumstances that had brought about my dismissal from the Whitford Manor-House, and I could find in them no ground for self- reproach not yet any justification for the harsh treatment that had thrown me upon the world again. I could not see that I had done more or less than my duty, and had to accept the result as another turn in the uncoiling of my cheerless destiny. Accordingly, I reestablished my- self at Brockley Moor, determined to be cheerful and ac- cept resignedly whatever fresh experiences God might be pleased to open to me in the path of life. Thus early my life was steeped in sadness; my heart became prophetic of evil, my lips began to be familiar with the chalice of bitterness, and my feet turned into flinty ways. We tritely say that life's evils are comparative. We scarcely 'feel the truth when comparing our trials with those of others. People are so different in character, temperament, cirgumstanc, and sensibility, that the elements fuse them- /   MrY SEcGO N  EXPEIMfENT.     93 selves into no common result for measurement. And, so it is that," each heart knoweth its own bitterness." We understand the truth better when, in our own lengthening experience, we go from cross to cross, from burden to burden-each sharper, heavier than the last-and come finally, if we are obedient to the discipline, to find our- selves, either in moral strength, or in stoical immobility, giants in endurance. The moral gymnasium of human life is designed, however, for better achievements in us than hardness of nature and stolidity of feeling; and so the Christian's strength is better than that of the philosopher, because his trials do not lie upon'him like a dead weight that he learns to carry, but are dissolved by his faith and wrought into the texture of his growing, strengthening character, which uses experience for its own development. So it is that he can see life grow more sunless, more joy- less, more hopeless, and yet find himself brighter, calmer, stronger, at each fresh demand, I realized this better as my life unfolded from the light afflictions of to-day, and swelled into the heavy burden of the future, which now would have bowed and crushed me. I understand it now, as I throw my mind back to these saddened but tranquil hours on the moor after I turned away from Lily Whit- ford's lonely sepulchre. CHAPTER XXVII. MKY SECOND EXPERIMENT. AFTER many a weary week, I received most unexpect- dly a letter from Mr. Mowton, whom I have mentioned efore as Elric's counsel in the memorable trial, inclosing note of introduction to one of his friends, if Berkshire,   "      BROCKLEY MOOR. a Sir James Cannon, who was in search of a governess, and to whom Mr. Mowton had written in my behalf. I communicated at once with the gentleman, forwarding the note of introduction, and soon received an answer which encouraged me to risk the journey, and undergo the "ex- amination," without which, the gentleman informed me, he could make no arrangement. I arrived at the Grange late one November evening, having left my trunk at the office of the stage-coach, and, shaking off the dust of travel as well as I could, I presented myself at the house, and inquired for the lady. I did not feel strongly prepossessed as I looked about me. Thehouse was an old stone mansion in the midst of a park of centennial trees. Every thing was dark and dismal; a dim light from a solitary lamp just enabled one to see that the wainscoting was sombre, and the hall vast, the broad stairway being very nearly in unrelieved darkness. The armed figures filling various niches were like ghostly knights lured back to the world by the unearthly and unmolested gloom of the house. After a long detention, I heard a man's step and the rustling of silks approaching, and in a moment perceived two forms, apparently the originals of the only two modern pictures which adorned the walls. "Sir James and Lady Cannon, I presume." The figures before me bowed and took possession of twOo arm-chairs. I stood before them and remained stand- ing until ready to faint. I had to ask pardon, and sank upon a chair. My examination was commenced at once. My intel- lectual attainments and higher qualifications did not occu- py the most prominent place in the examination. Lady Cannon's great anxiety seemed to be to find out whoI was, rather than what I was. Sir James was equally anx- ious to know my terms. Upon being told that the knight s*    MY SECOND EXPERIMENT.        95 had four daughters, all over ten years of age, desiring any amount of accomplishment, I did not think I was exorbi- tant in demanding thirty-five pounds a year. Lady Cannon demurred awhile, but her husband, whispering that he had not expected to get off with less than fifty pounds, inti- mated that he would not object to my terms. By this time, I was secretly hoping that I might "not suit," but the baronet and his lady leaving me for a private consultation upon the subject, soon returned with the flat- tering announcement that they were disposed to give me a "trial," and that I should commence work the next day. But where should I spend the night, I anxiously asked, as it was then ten o'clock, and the town was a labyrinth to me. The village inn was suggested, though Sir James said it was a notoriously bad place, and I would have to put down my veil, and " notice nobody," as I went in. I ventured to ask if a servant could be spared to show me the way. No; it was supper-time, and the men were oc- cupied, and they could not induce the maids to go that way, "but you will find it easily-it is on the highway to the left, and the first public-house between the lodge and the post," Such was the chivalrous arrangement of the knightly man whose protection I was about to accept, and, too proud to crave his hospitality, I wandered along the dreary road that brought me to the lodge, where I learned of the porter the way to the church and the parsonage. A weary hour I plodded on through the dew and dust, guided by the friendly tones of a clock; which I supposed to belong to the. parish church, and which chimed the quarters. Its sweet bell struck eleven, as I found myself before the door of the house, which I thought must be the parsonage. A single light encouraged me to ring the bell, an experiment repeated until, nearly disheartened, I was about turning away, when the door was opened by a gen-   96    O   BROYKLEY MOOR. tleman, attired in a cassock, who I doubted not was the rector himself. He regarded me with astolishment. I briefly told my story, and begged the shelter of his roof until daylight. I did not ask a bed. He ushered me at once into his study, where a bright light burned, and a warm fire glowed upon the hearth. He bade me excuse him, for a moment, and I had leisure to look around the apartment, in which the good man's hours Of meditation were spent, and whose sacred duties I had evidently inter- rupted, for a half-written sermon lay on his table, and books of reference were open beside it. He soon returned with a neat-looking maid, telling me that Mrs. Rivers, being an invalid, retired early; if I would excuse her absence, the maid would take care of me. I was led to a small room tastefully and neatly arranged, with bed that would have tempted a less weary frame than mine to repose. A few bright coals were glowing in the grate, and had taken the chill from a room not constantly used. Candles were lighted upon the chimney-piece. A Bible and prayer-book upon a table told of the spirit of the household that had given me such whole-hearted wel- come. Nor was I indifferent to the merits of the tea and hot toast the servant soon brought to me, for I was tired and hungry enough to have feasted with relish upon a crust and cold water. The tolling of the midnight hour found me still ab- stracted before those glimmering coals, enjoying their gen- ial warmth, and envying a destiny which was cast amid the hallowed quiet of such a place. But thoughts of to- morrow with its realities and work came and forced me from my pleasant reverie. I sought the neat couch, with a heart grateful to my unknown host and a body too ex- hausted to leave me long a prey to any hopes or fears. Perhaps I never enjoyed a rest more perfect, and when I 1   MY SECOND EXPERIMET.        97 awakened suddenly, but entirely refreshed, it was broad day- light. I was loath to acknowledge that the night was gone. A bright sun shone upon the frosty window, through which I looked upon the beautiful surroundings of the rectory, and saw that it was embosomed in a perfect bower of trees and shrubs, many of them evergreens, which dispelled the idea of winter. I had scarcely completed my toilet when I heard a gentle tap at my door, and, upon opening it, saw there a lovely little maiden waiting for me. I took the small hand she extended, as she said: "I am Mary Rivers, my papa is the rector here-you saw him last night, and mamma will be pleased to see you at breakfast in about an hour. But perhaps "-hnd she hesitated, while I kissed her sunny face, "perhaps you would rather come with me to prayers first." Most gladly would I go, and, as we talked, the sweet- cst of all church-bells began to toll. Throwing on iy shawl and bonnet, I followed the child, or rather she led me through a long hall wwhich conducted us to the end of their garden, to the very porch of the church. One of the transepts, serving for a chapel, was well filled with a goodly number of worshipers. At the desk I recog- nized my hospitable host. I may not describe that service nor its effect on myself, used as I was to the drawl of our estimable vicar, as he read the service to a few untaught fishermen in the cheerless, barn-like chapel which adorned the outskirts of the moor. From the mouth of Mr. Rivers the service was no more the same. His deep, musical voice, with its tone of pathos, adapted itself well to the various demands of the noble liturgy. He was supported by a number of young choristers, who were being trained themselves for the pastor's office. Those fervent responses and Amens told how heartily each worshiper did his part in the sanctuary service. All this was new to me, and ,I   98       BROCKLEY MOOR. upon a week-day, too. Alas! had I been dwelling near a score of years in a land whose religion was professedly that in which I now, for the first time, joined? I wished that matin service could have been twice as long. As the congregation dispersed, my young friend again took possession of me and led me to her mother, a pale, but lovely woman. A sweet smile welcomed me, and a silent pressure of the hand, and I was soon seated at their hospitable table. A look of sympathy, which I could not fail to see, passed between Mr. and Mrs. Rivers as I spoke of my engagement at Sir James Cannon's. "I wish," said Mrs. Rivers, " that we had heard of you a few days sooner, for I am anxious to find an assistant in my own educational experiments; my health, moreover, forces me to neglect them very often." Did I not- heartily echo that wish! But my word was pledged, and I had no alternative, and the trial must be made. Shortly after breakfast I found myself on the way back to the Grange, Mr. Rivers insisting upon taking me there himself, bidding me remember, if I was not happy in my new position, there would always be a room at the rectory for me, until I could do better, and that, under all circum- stances, I must regard him as a friend and pastor. Nor was he contented to leave me at the door, but entered and formally committed me to Lady Cannon's care. "I looked for you two hours ago, Miss Trenham," was her welcome, quite overlooking my protector's polite "Good- morning." "The children must not be later than nine o'clock in commencing their studies, and, as it is now eleven, we will lose no more time, but proceed at once th the school- room." I followed her and was presented to my pupils, four   MY SECOND EXPERIMENT.  young ladies ranging in age from eleven to sixteen. They stiffly acknowledged the introduction and eyed mc curiously. There was nothing in their faces to prepossess me. The oldest and youngest were very pretty, while the others were plain even to repulsion.. My heart misgave me, as I looked around the cheerless room and upon the counte- nances of my pupils. I boldly faced the undertaking, how- ever, and took possession of the high stool and desk which were indicated as i" the teacher's." The young ladies were ranged before me on a straight- backed wooden bench, before which were four desks, made like those used in the common schools of that day. An old tuneless harp stood in one corner, and an antiquated piano in another. No carpet was upon the floor, excepting a narrow strip under the young ladies' feet. The windows were uncurtained, and the walls a dingy gray, which had once been white. A fire was smouldering in the grate, yet the atmosphere was cold and damp. Such was the aspect of my school-room. No time was lost in acquaint- ing me with the routine of duties, which consisted of pro- fuse cramming of English, according in quality, only, to the capacity of the pupil; moreover, a separate course was ex- pected for each, and the English lessons had to be accom- plished at one o'clock, when lunch was served in the school- room. For the disposal of that meal and recovery of wasted 'strength, one half-hour was allowed; from that time until three was devoted to modern languages; a  music-lesson of half an hour's length was then given to each pupil, and the day's requirements were supposed to be over, as the family dined at five. At seven, however, the young ladies had to commence their musical practice, and I was requested to superintend the performance. The day of my arrival was regarded as a half-holiday by the poor girls, for there were no recitations; we were very -   100       BROCKLEY  1OOR. much occupied, however, in preparing a system for the future. A look of half gratitude brightened the -face of the  youngest child as I ventured to ask her mother to divide her studies, so that every thing was not packed into one day. Lady Cannon put down any such idea most authorita- tively, informing me that the course of studies was alto- gether her own laying out; that much experience and thought had convinced her that the mind of childhood needed constant occupation; that to make of work a play, was not the thing at all-it was only a ruse of lazy teachers; that those who taught in her house must consider the school-room their home, and remember that their whole time and all their faculties were bought by their em- ployer. I replied, as gently as I was able, that my suggestion had only been in consideration for the children, and had no reference to myself. "Ah, miss, I know right well the race to which you belong! We have not had successively twenty or more specimens in this house, and failed to learn their tricks. Indeed, I can see through any one of the profession." "I would only assure you, madam, that I have a very easy remedy at my command if I am not pleased, or find my duties too burdensome; so I cannot be accused of in- terested motives." She deigned no reply, but referred me to her written rules in regard to conversation in study-time, except at the close of each hour, when a safety-valve was opened for three to five minutes. In addition, she particularly desired that a composition should be ivritten each week upon the great questions of the day. This, after I had corrected it, must be brought to her for criticism. Her exhortations, as   -PL L JLUiv1jD J!,'j VfjUlENIT  101 well as daylight, at length came to a close, and I breathed freely once more. I dined alone in the school-room, and upon meagre fare; after which I then sought the servant to conduct me to my room, for where my trunk had been carried I did not know; my bonnet and shawl were still hanging on a peg in the school-room. I was directed to a room in the gar- ret, where I found my trunk beside a small cot. Upon the opposite side of the room stood a double bed. I was told that the kitchen and house maids occupied the room. One basin and ewer alone, holding about a quart of water, were there, and a single towel, which might have been intended for general use. I dismissed the servant and sat down upon my trunk, for neither chair, press, nor any of the ordi- nary articles of chamber furniture, graced the apartment. And I was pledede for three months' servitude there! Could I live through it? was the question that rose to my lips. At all events, I must make the trial; and I had to do it with a brave heart, if at all. I shook of the gloom, and took possession of the six nails which had been driven into ,the wall undoubtedly by one of my twenty predecessors, who might almost be pardoned had the temptation crossed her poor, bruised spirit, to hang something more precious than her dresses upon one huge spike, which seemed to challenge the inquiry why was it driven there. I locked my trunk' firmly, and went down for a walk. On the stairs I encountered Lady Cannon, who bade me be back by practice-time. I strolled on--naturally toward the parsonage-and again I heard the same sweet bell that had broken the silence of the morning. I increased my speed and walked toward the church, half timidly, as though I were an in- truder, and, taking an obscure scat, I joined the worship- ers at their vesper service. Ilow brightly the rays of the   102       BROCKLEY MOOR.  setting sun shone through the rich western window, shed- ding, as it were, heaven's light upon the kneeling forms. How like the ark of rest itself seemed that consecrated temple to my weary heart! lHow reluctantly I left its hal- lowed shades, to turn my way " homeward," there to listen to those discordant thrummings in the cheerless school- room! Kate, a bright-eyed little girl, and the youngest, was already at the scales and chords when I entered.  Ellen, the next in age, was sitting beside the piano, trying  to read by the light of the solitary candle; she looked tim- idly at me for a moment, and, stealing to my side, whis-  pered:  "Miss -Trenham, don't let mamma drive you away;  don't, for our sakes. I am sure we shall like you so  much."  I put my arm around the child, and spoke assuringly to  her. She again turned to me, and, in an almost impercep- tible whisper, added: "Don't tell anybody; but I want you to know that she is not our own dear mamma I Emily remembers all about our own mamma, and has her miniature! She was -only-our own mamma's house-keeper and nurse." Ah! what volumes in those words! What treasures of filial affection and loveliness gone to waste! What records of neglected and wounded little hearts were told in the confession "She is not our own dear mamma!" The mystery of unnaturalness was solved, and a secret blessing was invoked upon the worse than motherless chil- dren! I kissed Ellen's cheek, but did not dare express my sympathy. I took her hand, and led her to the piano, cor- rected a few mistakes in Katy's scale, and spoke encourag- ingly to the two dear children. Lady Cannon .entered as Kate's half-hour expired, and put Ellen's exercises upon the piano, and again left us.   MY SECOND EXPERIIIMENT.      103 I extended my hand to Kate, as Ellen began to play. The child regarded me half curiously for a moment, and awkwardly approached me. "We are going to have nice times, Katy, and are going to be good friends, I hope, and have such good lessons," I said, trying to draw her to me. "I don't like lessons," she replied, pouting. I would like to play one day-one whole, long [day-but mamma won't let me." "Oh, no! Katy-not play a whole day; you would be so tired, that-" "Tired!" she interrupted; " do try me," and her bright eyes sparkled. "I will see what your mamma says!" 4"Oh, dear! Pray, don't; mamma would do something dreadful to us!" I was silenced and saddened at the prospect, and, to turn the child's thoughts, I asked her if she knew Mary Rivers. "No, mamma does not let me know her; mamma says Mr. Rivers is a Catholic, and something worse, he wears wolves' skin!" I smiled at the child's version of what '" mamma " prob- ably said, but was saved the necessity of any reply, for mamma herself entered the room, rather flushed, and ex- claimed: "Pray, miss, stop talking to Kate, and pay a little attention to Miss Ellen, who has made I do not know how many blunders! Besides, it is Kate's bedtime!" and the poor child was severely lectured for trespassing in the school-room after her practising was over. Ellen's half-hour expired, and Emily, a plain, sickly- looking girl about fourteen, lost no time in taking lher sis- ter's place. She played prettily, evidently possessing a   104       BROOKLEiY MOOR.. taste for music. Without noticing my presence in the least, she performed faithfully her duty, and left the room at the exact minute without having condescended to recog- nize my existence by word or look. She relinquished her seat to her sister Laura. This young lady was rather over sixteen, showy, and would have been a beauty but for the sour, ill-tempered expression of her countenance. She seldom smiled, and, when she did, there was something so scornful in the qual- ity, that one involuntarily wished to see the scowl return. Her voice was sharp, and she spoke quickly and with em- phasis. She was evidently possessed of natural ability, but which, alas-! had been so long under a heavy pressure, that her genius was only showed in mechanical compliance with the demands made upon it. She did not even at- tempt to evade the thraldom under which she lived; for, doubtless, poor girl! she had proved the futility of all such attempts. As she rose from the piano that memorable first even- ing, she threw herself in a chair opposite me, and, eying me half dubiously, exclaimed: "I pity you a good deal, Miss Trenham; but I would like to change positions with you right well. Come, be frank, tell me if ever you saw the thumb-screws squeezed so tight as they torture us? Now, don't be afraid. I can trust you, and you ought to trust me. You don't know the value of a word of sympathy! It is the cup of cold water and morsel of bread to the famishing. Do not be afraid; let us pity each other, and we will both feel better." "Oh, do not speak so bitterly, my dear girl," S replied; "we are going to get on better than, that-with mutual concessions, there will be no cause for trouble or unhap- piness." She smiled. "Mutual concessions and Lady Cannon!   m  Y SETCOND EXPERIMEENT     105 Al! my dear pretty governess; you will be a little tired of trying to reconcile those elements before three months are past-only, I would give you a hint. Twice a month Lady Cannon explodes! After that there is generally a slight calm, during which considerable temporary relief is experienced by all of us.' In addition'to these times, there are ten days in a month when her ladyship rolls about in my father's carriage, leaving her pasteboard or showing her beautiful visage at neighboring lodges, for she is never permitted to pass them. You are not aware, probably, that Lady Cannon was already an antiquated spinster when she entrapped Sir James, then a widower of a year or more, by her ardent professions for his children; her de- votion to the young in general, and to young Cannons in particular. Finally, my good father listened, and, instead of making her iis house-keeper, as she was his father's, most unfortunately for us, he made her his wife. I tell you this, Miss Trcnham, lest you should fall into the very innocent mistake of supposing Lady Cannon had any claim on our filial regard." "Indeed, my dear Laura, you should not speak so of your father's wife. Think how your fatlher would be grieved if he should hear you!" "I am sure, nothing would give me greater pleasure than a good opportunity to tell him the same thing, espe- cially as she has ruined him with her lies and artfulness, and there is very little now to choose between them- in their treatment of us." In vain I remonstrated with her upon indulging such speech; she assured me that any other course would do great injustice to her feelings. I felt constrained to change the topic of conversation, and asked her something about her studies. "For Heaven's sake,"' she exclaimed, "if there be the   106      D3RBOCKXLEY HOOR. smallest pity in your nature, don't speak of my studies after nine o'clock at night! In mercy'st name, is not the agony of the day long enough?" I assured her that I only had her good at heart, and, if I could do any thing in the world to promote her hap- piness, most cheerfully would I do it. "Then give Lady Cannon an unwholesome cup of coffee some morning. Life would indeed be a gala-day if that 'great gulf' were between her and my mother's children." I was shocked, not so much at the girl's bitterness and bold language, as by the consciousness of the long years of injustice and treatment which alone could have gendered and nourished such premature hardness. "Bear and forbear, my poor Laura; the hour of eman- cipation must come sooner or later." "I would hasten it," was her reply, and she seized a book-for her well-trained ear had detected tlh stealthy step which I did not hear-and, when Lady Cannon entered, she was poring over the pages. "Why are you still in the school-room, Laura?" "Miss Trenham was showing me how to perform that problem which puzzled you so much," was the reply feigned with ready coolness. "Miss Trenham should be able to solve any problem at the first asking; it is her business, not mine. If you have obtained all the information you desire, your father will see you in the library; for you know, at your age, I can coun- tenance no intimacy with your governess." "As I am prohibited all intercourse with governesses and house-keepers, good-night, Miss Trcnham; I must seek my father, the only respectable person in the establishment -a soft bed and pleasant dreams!" "Impertinent creature!" exclaimed Lady Cannon, as   i Y SECOND 'EXPERIMENT.      107 the door closed upon poor Laura; and begging that I would lose no' opportunity of reproving her disorderly con- duct, and particularly requesting that her tasks must be severe, and recited with perfect accuracy-especially as her memory was remarkable, and to learn was for her no hardship-she went briefly over the characters and claims of the other girls, telling me that Emily was the best of the lot-probably because most crushed; that Ellen and Kate- were destined to be dunces; that Ellen, having studied music two years, could not play a tune, while Kate had been a year at the gamut; but that Emily was a good, obedient girl, not over-sensitive, and would give me no trouble. I was silent, for I knew not what to say; and with the further information that school exercises would commence at nine, that my breakfast would be sent to me at eight, or I could take it earlier with the h6use-leeper if I liked, the lady bade me good-night, and I was left to my reflec- tions, and sought my dark and dreary chamber. I love not to recall that cold and comfortless night, and well remember my relief at the first sign of daylight. I performed my toilet in the pint of water which the maids very considerately left for my use, and, availing myself of the privilege of an early breakfast with the house-keeper, I started off for my morning walk, and was at church before its first bell had rung. What a blessed privilege! Men are inclined to cavil at the assembling morning and evening in the temple of the Lord: this beginning and ending of our daily life; this fortifying self for life's toils and frictions before they begin; and recalling self from their dominion when theyare over, amid the stillness never broken by any profane or worldly uses! Who is not the better for that brief half-hour, when we go to ask God to put on and take off from us the burden of daily life?   108       BROGKLEY MOOR. Thank Heaven I devoutly did for Iazle-dcll Church, for it was there that I found strength to carry me through the trials of the coming day, or a balm to heal the wounds those trials had inflicted. It was no religion of forms, or of vague sentiment only, that filled my heart as I entered that cheerless school-room at nine o'clock each morning, fresh from my invigorating walk from that quiet temple, and strong in the faith that He, in whose presence I had just knelt, would impart to me the spirit and the power to perform a task under which I had otherwise fainted! It was something better than pride that checked the quick retort or impatient gesture;' something more than pity that enlisted my heart for those poor, unloved, and unloving children of a cheerless and misguided household. It was thus I triumphed in my wretched dwelling-place -home I cannot call it, without profanation of the word. One day passed as another; the only variation being, more or less of misery. I dealt with the children as gently as-I could, but it was not in my power to gain their hearts, or disassociate myself in their minds from their ideas of 'the school-room and its bondage. I was conscious, however, ,that I sometimes alleviated their wretchedness, and, for this small satisfaction I would have prolonged my stay beyond the stipulated time, had I felt justified in doing so. Notwithstanding my morning and evening walk, the close confinement during the day, with scanty food, and cold, comfortless nights in my garret-chamber, not to speak of mental trials, had preyed upon my health and nerves, until I was quite convinced that another three months' expe- rience would result in blighted health, an evil which I could not afford to risk. Lady Cannon did not seem at all sur- prised when informed of my intention to leave, although she condescended to say that she was sorry, and offered to ,raise my wages if I would promise to remain a year with her.   IZAZLE-DELL PARSONA E.      109 I told her that increase of salary was not my object in changing my position; my duties were too arduous for the state of my health. I was kept hard at work until the last moment, and sent off with seven pounds and seven shillings in my hand, for which I had to give a receipt. I had unfortunately broken a vase, valued at three shillings, and for which I had to pay. Again my trunk went to the inn, and I to the rectory. Mr. Rivers had not forgotten his promise, nor his lady her desire for a governess, the only difficulty being, their in- ability to promise me more than twenty pounds. I need not say the terms did not alarm me, and I was soon re- instated in the beautiful little room where I had once spent so peaceful a night.  CHAPTER XXVIII. IIAZLE-DELL PAIS ON1AGE. WHAT a contrast was that cozy little study, into which I was introduced the morning after my arrival, to the place in which health and life had languished at the Grange. How rapidly flew those three hours which were'all that Mr. Rivers would permit his daughter to spend in actual study! How charming were our evenings, with music and reading, and the no less fascinating conversation of Mr. Rivers! Indeed, home at all times was so joyful and hlppy, that I feared lest the hallowed services of the church might lose their blessed charm! Prayers for a meek and con- tented spirit gave place to constant thanksgivings. I had but faintly imagined such blissful hours as were granted to mne at the rectory. All seemed to lore me, and when three   months passed, and Mr. Rivers quietly slipped five pounds into my hand, I thanked him as though it were an unearned  gift from a father's hand. And yet I had no more idle time  than I had at the Grange, for, when my pupil did not need me, there was plenty of household matter to engage me, beyond what the two maid-servants could accomplish. And  Mrs. Rivers's health was so feeble that it seemed as much my duty to relieve her of every care as though I had been her child. But then we had pleasant walks every day, and occasional drives to the old castle where Mr. Rivers's father had dwelt, and where his mother (still lived, and his eldest  brother was chatelain, for Mr. Rivers was the youngest son of an earl, and, like most youngest sons, had been devoted to the Church, to which happily his heart and desires would have led him had he been free to choose his profession. He had received but a small share of this world's goods when his brother succeeded to the earldom, and intervening brothers and sisters had carried off their portions. He married humbly; that is to say," sweet Mary Gray," as all called her, was not rich. Slhe was but a village maiden, of spotless fame and devoted heart. His brother gave the living where Mr. Rivers hoped to spend his days. He made his home beautiful, and encouraged his parish- ioners to restore the parish church to symmetry and some- thing of its ancient beauty, and, in place of neglected walls and crumbling columns, the old church, a fine specimen of the Norman style, became one of those beautiful links to an age of' ecclesiastical grandeur, that happily are neither few nor neglected upon the "Isle of Isles," and Within those hallowed shades the service of the Church was faith- fully and acceptably offered. Beloved and honored by rich and poor, Mr. Rivers stood among them the watchful shepherd of the flock, and years later, when his hair was silvered and his dark eye dimmed,   the children of the first generation of those he served would gather around him and call upon their children--ay! their children's children--to come for the blessing of the vener- able man who -had shown to them and their fathers the way of life and truth! But not thus to anticipate. As I have intimated, the marriage of this good man had not been agreeable to the ideas of his noble relations, and, at the period of my admission into his household, the family at the castle never visited the rectory. Occasionally we took a drive through the castle-grounds, and more than once the stately coach of the earl (whose title I did not learn until I had long resided at the rectory) would be sent to the rectory for Miss Mary, that she might sjond a day or two with her grandmother. It so happened that, upon one of these visits to the cas- tle, Mrs. Rivers was taken so very ill tlhat it was thought necessary to send for Mary. I was accordinglly dispatched with the gardein-boy, as he was not thought competent to convey alone so important a message. I asked for my pupil, and was shown into a reception- room, where a gentleman ivas reading. I guessed iminldi- ately that it must be Mary's uncle, the earl, from a family likeness to Mr. Rivcrs. I could not possibly imagine why lie should be so startled and confusced at my unobtrusive entrance. He unceremoniously left me to await my charge, who did not long tarry, for, half suspecting that some trouble at home must have occasioned this interruptionI to her visit, she ran to me in breathless haste. She was Iccompanied: by a young gentleman, whom she introduced is her cousin, Lord Veron, and a lady also followed, who vas her aunt, Lady Trevor, Countess of Durreigh. It was low my turn to start, and stammer "  Lord Trevor!"It lashed upon me all at once. Had not Elric declared him- elf son of the late earl? Indeed, I could well enough see   "2       BROCIELEY MOOR. the resemblance that he bore to the earl, no less than to his reverend brother, Mr. Rivers. A crowd of thoughts rushed upon me, and a strange faintness made me grasp a chair for support. I was kindly cared for by Lady Trevor, and a glass of water, presented by her son, soon quite re- vived me. My name, undoubtedly, had been remembered then as connected with Elric's proud assertion of his origin. We departed at the earliest moment, for poor Mary's anxious heart could endure no delay. Lady Veron begged that, upon Mary's next visit, Miss Trenham, of whom she had heard so much through her niece, might accompany her. Lord Veron handed us to our little carriage, and we were: driving off, when, inadvertently looking up toward an upper window, as we turned away, I saw a pair of dark eyes fixed anxiously upon me-eyes so like Elric's, that they might well belong to his brother. "Ah!"I thought, "he knows of his kinsman, the hunted outlaw, and whoever I   knows now of him, knows something of Agnes Trenham!" For many days all other thoughts were banished by the painful suspense in which ie were kept by Mrs. Rivers's illness; but, after a long period of hopes and fears, she rallied, and we began to trust that she would still be spared to us. A few days, however, after Mary's recall, a horseman halted at the rectory, and Lord Veron was announced. As I was obliged to do the honors of the house, I re- ceived the young gentleman, and gave him the necessary report as to his aunt's condition-he volunteering the in- formation that he had called at his mother's request. His cousin soon appeared, and with her, Mr. Rivers, who was a stranger to his nephew, whom he received with great cordiality. Lord Veron, moreover, was evidently pleased at Mr. Rivers's kind enquiries for his parents and the aged dowager. I withdrew at the earliest noment, but could   HAZLEDELL PARSONAGE.       113 not avoid hearing Lord Veron decline the courteous invita- tion to dinner, a general desire having already been ex- pressed by Mr. Rivers that his nephew would not consider this visit the last. "Nothing, dear uncle, would give me greater pleasure than to repeat it, except to meet you at the castle-a pleasure I should not long postpone, were I its lord!" and he mounted his horse, while Mr. Rivers walled sadly back to the porch. A week or two later the visit was renewed. That day the young lord dined at the rectory, and remained quite late in the evening, which was very pleasant and warm. Mrs. Rivers lay upon the parlor sofa, for the first time leaving her room. At her entreaty I played and sang. At Lord Veron's request, I repeated my song, and his lord- ship joined me. Mr. Rivers suggested some favorite ducts, and we sang piece after piece, until summoned to prayer. Lord Veron knelt with us, and then took leave. How naturally he included me as he parted with his relatives  I think he pressed my hand as he left, and he insisted that I, as well as Mary, must be" cousin "to him. I blushed and withdrew my hand, and felt self-rebuked the next moment. Within a week he came again, though his aunt was quite well, and we had another pleasant evening; but it seemed too short, and I found my face was flushed, and I was feverish when I retired to my room, and one of the songs'- one of his songs-kept floating through my dreams all night, and I found myself counting the days until he should come again, and Mary too talked so much of her cousin that he was filling too large a space in my thoughts; but then had he not called me "cousin?"   "4       BR OCcKLEY .MOOR. CHAPTER XXIX. THE CASTLE. As winter approached, Mrs. Rivers's health grew more and more feeble, and it became evident that she must seek a more genial climate. Italy was suggested by the family physician, and Lord Veron was admitted to the domestic conference; and, when he next came to the rectory, he brought a proposition from his father that Mary should be sent to the castle, and that Mr. Rivers should accompany his wife to Florence, and the earl would supply Mr. Rivers with a desirable person as curate until spring. It was sug- gested also that, in order that Mary should not lose time in her studies, her governess should accompany her, and her work be pursued as usual. Especially was this urged, as the earl and countess were also on the point of departing for the Continent; and their aged mother, the dowager, would be rejoiced in her loneliness to have the society of her granddaughter, whom she had learned to love most fondly. Within another week we were domiciled at the castle, and Mr. and Mrs. Rivers embarked upon a vessel bound for the Mediterranean. A new phase of life was now opened to me. For the first time I was living with the noble in name and birth., I felt the contrasts between them and flimsy imitations and vulgar pretensions of a Lady Cannon or the ill-bred conde- scension of an Hon. Mrs. Whitford. There was genuine- ness in the calm dignity of the venerable countess as she moved among the favored few who were admitted to her society. Their nobility had nothing to fear by contact with the humble; and daily I met in freest intercourse X   THE CASTLE.         115 those of the best names and highest rank. Their high breeding protected me from any curiosity about my posi-  tion, and it was enough that the " poor governess with twenty pounds a year " was unreservedly entertained with them. In some respects only was I less happy than at the rectory. I missed, more than any thing else, our church and our beloved pastor. The performance of the heavy chaplain who was attached. to the castle corps was a poor exchange for our absent one, whom I longed to have again with us. Mary was unqualifiedly happy, for she had one of those bright natures that can be petted and flattered without injury to its fine texture. Sometimes at night she would throw her arms around my neck, and perhaps shed a tear or two, as the storm without or the wailing of the wind brought her parents to her mind; but she would quickly think of the blessings this absence might confer upon her mother, and her tears were soon dried, while her young heart would utter every prayer for their protection that filial love could suggest. Under all circumstances she was the same sweet, artless child who, many months before, had presented her happy face at the door of the almost-for- saken wanderer.  And to her grandmother how dear she had already be- come! The child of a son well beloved, though of whom she had seen but little for more than the period of Mary's life the countess seemed to lavish upon his only represent- ative the affection of which the father had been deprived. 'It was in the evening after the early dinner that the hap- piest hours were spent. Bright-too bright-is the recol- lection of those hours. We (that is, Mary and I) would generally read to her some of her favorite books-especially was she fond of the - old English dramas; we would play and sing our sweetest songs for her; and, when she seemed tired of this, Mary   "6       BROcKLEY MOOR. would be sent to summon her cousin to gratify the old lady's fondness for her favorite aame of whist. Thus by degrees we became a quartet-party-Lord Veron coming to our evening gatherings, which broke up so early that his lordship had plenty of time upon his hands in the later hours. Oh, how bright, how short those evenings seemed! How perfectly, the countess said, our voices blended-I mean Lord Veron's and mine! Attentively he turned the leaves of music as I played. How tender and thrilling were the tones in which he read the poetry he knew the countess loved best! When it became my turn to read, how his eyes rested upon my face until-until-oh! I dread to write it-I read more in those clear, calm eyes, than upon the page before me, more than my heart had even sought .to read, more than I had prompted that poor heart to echo; and that night, that first night when we parted, he detained my hand unseen by others, and petted and pressed it, oh, so fondly, before I could or would withdraw it! And thus months rolled on, and spring-tide was at hand, and in a few weeks Mr. Rivers would return and Hand we, Mary and Hwould leave the castle. I did not ask my heart why I did not more joyfully anticipate the return to the rectory; why it was that my spirits were so light and the song ever upon my lips; why that calm of joy, so full, into which, it seemed, one more drop could not be poured. In all my walks, Lord Veron was by my side. Every drive was under his direction. But, whether by accident or precaution I will not say, from that hour when I read that look of deep meaning in his eyes, I never left the house alone. Rich flowers were thrown in my lap and rare exotics sent to my room. The finest music written was placed before me, and the choicest volumes of poetry were /   THE CASTLE.         117 offered with a refined grace that defied refusal; nor was it for my poor, trembling hand to erase the name which his had traced within the volume. And yet I evaded the dread betrayal of the feeling that was prompting all this, and with every act of which I was capable I sought to discourage the utterance of the passion which in words alone had not been expressed. It was thus in the last days of my visit, when Lord ' Veron had been called to London on important business, and I strayed forth alone early, to enjoy the loveliness of that spring morning. I had scarcely gone a hundred yards, and Elric stood before me, as one who had risen from the earth. I sprang toward him, and he hurried me to a remote corner of the park. How long since we had met, how much there was to say, and yet how reluctant were we to open our lips! He had grown so much older in appearance, and his face was wan and haggard. Of his own life he would tell me nothing, except that he lived no more at Brockley, leading me to believe that he had abandoned his questionable pursuits. Of his com- panions he declined- to speak, and the reserve of his man- ner was most painful to me. I tried to be cheerful, and asked him what had tempted him to break his resolution, and seek me in the domains of his kinsman. "My kinsman!" he exclaimed with an emphasis that I recalled months afterward. "Ah! yes, I must not for- get that the proud earl is my brother. I am his senior by five years. Your reverend patron is another brother, too, and the gray-haired countess my step-mother forsooth! Beware of them all, Agnes! Their love is as blighting as a demon's hate. But tell me of the heir, how do you find him? Is he like his father, given to dark deeds, or does he betray the gentle virtues of his noble mother?"   "8       BROIKLEY MOOR. The tell-tale blood mounted to my hair, and I dared not look in Elric's face, nor could I trust my voice to answer. "Has he dared to breathe a breath of impious love to you, Agnes! Ay, like father, like son, from generation to generation?" "Nay, Elric, you wrong Lord Veron! he has never spoken of love to me; but, had he, surely it would never have been of impure love! Lord Veron's soul-" "Defend not the scion of an apostate race, unhappy child I tell you that any love he would whisper would curse your body and soul. Beware of the precipice on which you stand! But you are pale, you tremble-tell me, tell me, for the love of God, that I am not too late! Tell me, darling, that you love not this-this youth?"And again those strong arms held me, and tiose dark eyes sought to read my soul. I was silent and humiliated. "Agnes, you have called me father, and I have called you child, not falsifying a love whose strength and purity your father never knew; and by all that is past, by all that is holy in the relation, which once you dreamed might exist between us, by all the intensity of a father's anguish, I appeal to youI Have I ever deceived you? Have I ever been unmindful of your happiness? No, no! I am sure of that! Then believe me when I tell you, aught that he calls love is damnable lust! Before you admit one responsive throb, go to yonder brink and dash yourself headlong down the ravine!-mourn, mourn that years ago those waves on Brockley shore did not engulf your inno- cent form!-curse me that these strong arms rescued you from sorrow and sinful shame!" "Elric! Elric! are you mad? Who thinks of sin, who dreams of shame? Not he whose soul--" "Am I mad? Agnes, not so, yet I swear to you that   THE CASTL E.        119 you could not wed the heir of Durreigh Castle, should he put himself and all these proud lands of ours at your feet; and as your value life and heaven, peace on earth and salvation hereafter) itf this unhallowed passion has possessed your breast, root it out-cast it from you!" I trembled at his intense excitement, and, finding my eloquence all forsaking me, I strove to disengage myself, and fly from him. But he held me closer to him, and all violence subsided in his manner. In his old winning way he folded me in his arms, and entreated me to believe him, to be assured that there were obstacles that time could never overcome; and that even if I were led to the altar itself by the young lord, he would have to interpose. "Spare me this, Agnes," he cried; "I have had sorrow and shame enough-spare me this. Fly from those castle- walls. I will protect you, and be what you once pleaded I might be to you. The consequences which I then pic- tured are a bright alternative to the doom that may await you here!" It was now my turn to reply, "Too late, too late!"I tried to quiet his fears, by assuring him that they were exaggerated! that Lord Veron probably knew too well the difference in our social positions to make honorable over- tures, supposing he had the affection to prompt them. Of aught dishonorable Lord Veron was incapable! And thus we parted;- my duties called me back to the castle, and I watched poor Elric as, sadly and sorrowfully, he wound his way through the thick shrubbery. I turned toward the castle, all joy seemed to have departed, and a heavy weight of sorrow pressed upon me. What all this meant, I could not fancy. Was it that Elric believed none of tihe house of Durreigh capable of good, or was there some moral impediment? I banished the base suspicion. I could at that moment have pledged my soul that Veron's life had been   120       BROCKLEY MOOR. spotless as his honor was unimpeachable. While musing on the strangeness of the encounter, I was startled by a familiar footstep, and, turning quickly, I beheld Lord Veron with a beaming countenance and sparkling eyes. "I thought you were in LondonI my lord," I said, as quietly as I could, scarcely touching! his extended hand, with my own still cold and trembling. "Nay, Agnes! I have arranged my business by deputy, and have flown back to the castle on the wings of love and hope. But how pale you are! and you are trembling. Are you ill? This chilly spring morning has given you cold. Take my arm!  He started as I declined the proffered support, and fixed his eyes searchingly upon mine; but, with his usual self- command, he quietly drew my arm through his, with almost an assertion of right, and we turned into a quiet, untrod- den path. I need not dwell upon that hour-that blissful hour in which I learned that I was beloved with all the strength of his true, manly heart, with all the purity and disin- terestedness that the fondest mother would have claimed for her child. No excitement appeared in his language and manners-affection and respect governed every word. The noble dignity of his character never appeared more beautifully than at that hour; and to all that he said, all that he proposed, could my heart be indifferent? Alas! to' this moment, I can con over each word, and feel yet the responsive throbs with which I listened. And upon what pretext could I decline to listen, or beg his silence? I could not tell him he was unloved, yet, with Elric's warn- ing in my ear, and with all the courage I could summon, I bade him dismiss me from his thoughts, and tried to tell him that no happiness could result from a union of widely- different ranks.   W         :1Tit] UIWASTLE.      121 His lip curled proudly, as he replied, "And what is rank?" Indeed, I could not enlighten him, and mnade no at- tempt. "Agnes, have I not studied your character and watched your daily life for many a month, until assured that you, of all women I have ever met, possess the qualities upon which my happiness in wedded life would depend? You, gifted and beautiful, high-minded and true, proclaim your- self my inferior. Not among titles and fortunes do I find your compeer! You speak of the objection of my family. So long as my bride can in herself bring no shame, but only lustre to their pride of station, I do not admit their right to interfere. It is I alone who am to be happy or miserable through my choice, and it is well known that I would not seek rank or riches as a condition of that hap- piness. It is, I repeat, the abiding presence of one like yourself, whatever be her birth or origin. It is no young dream of passion from which I will awaken to-morrow. My love is the result of my reason, my choice is the neces- sity of my nature. My father may object, and I should for your sake regret it; but when I prove to him that I have chosen with my bride, refinement and education, grace and beauty, it will be his responsibility if you are not welcomed to the castle. I have a fortune and a home quite inde- pendent of my expectations here, although this estate, being entailed, must eventually be my own. Moreover I believe my parents to desire my happiness before all other things, and would receive any woman I loved and respected with a warm welcome. You do not know my mother. How she would delight in such a daughter as I long to lead to her!"-and his looks became fonder, and his voice more tender in its low tones. "You will not doubt my power, Agnes, to make you happy-give me only an as- \     '   .  '   122      BROCOKLEY MOOR. surance of your love, a look, a word, and henceforth it will be my beloved on one side, and all the world on the other, if I am driven to a choice. My name will only be given where my heart has long been captive. Nay, Agnes, turn not away! I would revel in that crimson blush-- read hope in that drooping lid, but I pine for a word, one simple word, one spoken word." / He drew me closely to him; he gazed into the averted face. I scarcely knew what I said. It satisfied him, I am sure, for he pleaded no more; and, with the air of owner- ship, he led me to our favorite walk. There we lingered until he had poured out his heart's story. He told me how deep had been the earliest impressions; how he resisted the pleadings of his affection, until, in a thousand unnoticed and unsuspected ways he had tested the character in which he could find no blemishes. The more he spoke, the more incomprehensible seemed Elric's fear of my yielding to his love. Nothing could be purer, nobler, and more respectful than that love. There should be no disguise, he said. From that hour our engagement must be acknowledged; and, as soon as Mr. and Mrs. Rivers returned, I must give him the long-coveted privilege of withdrawing me from a life of toil and dependence. Alas for those memories-those precious memories-  that thrilling of the whole frame to the new and strange vibrations of the spirit!-the magnetism of the first, almost reverential touch of his lips-or the trembling of my whole frame, as he put upon my hand the ring as an earnest of that mystic band of gold that should later symbolize the vows of a union that "no man could put asunder"' How reluctantly we at last turned toward the castle! H ow strong to protect seemed that arm upon which I leaned, as we walked through paths, new to our eyes, made beau- tiful by a new light!   THE CASTLE.  .      123 Upon entering the castle, he at once sought the count. ess and asked her blessing. He then led me to her. The dear ladyheld me to her and invoked, in trembling, prayer- ful tones, God's blessing on us both. Her eyes, which for more than a half-century of her fourscore years had been turned toward "the things which are unseen and eternal," saw no disparity in the union which would make her grand- daughter's nameless governess the future Countess of Dur. reigh. "He is worthy of all your love," she whispered in reply to his modest wonderment "wwhy Heaven had sent him such a treasure-he who had done nothing either generous or noble in all his life."           ou And thus, in a quiet and eyentless round of duty and pleasure, the months rolled on. Such days are never granted twice to any life; but to me only is their memory a sin! Yet, the recollection of those hours will haunt me. They, like a blissful delirium, come back. 'Even still do I hear, at times, in my sleep, the words of endearment and the tones of a voice too well remembered in the long, long past! I dream of long, shady walks through the unrivaled grounds of the ancient park, or am cantering again Over the neighboring country, under the watchful eye and be- side the careful hand that hoped to clasp mine forever. But why need I pause here, as though, even in recalling that serenely happy life at the castle, I am reluctant to close the chapter. It did close, however. Mr. Rivers and the invalid returned, and we were hurried back to Hazle-dell Rectory.   124    .  BROCKLEY MOOR. CHAPTER XXX. GATHERING CLOUDS. "ORD VERON accompanied Mary and me to her home. We had been stowed away in the old family coach. The day was bright and balmy; and, just as we were starting, a groom appeared beside us with three saddled horses, upon which we were happy to mount, leaving our luggage upon the coach, which was to follow us and take us up, should Mary or I find the ride too fatiguing, or the sun be- come too hot as we crossed the unsheltered hills. The journey was scarcely so lively for Mary Rivers as it would have been had her companions been less preoccupied with each other. We had, however, scarcely entered a thickly- wooded road just beyond the park, when Mary exclaimed, "O cousin, did you see that man hiding behind the trees?" As Veron reined in his horse, Elric started before me; and, with a glance terrifying even to me who knew him so well, he approached me, and, in a husky whisper, said: "Agnes, beware! beware! remember my words!" and then as quickly disappeared. "Who can that madman be?" asked Lord Veron, as he spurred on his steed to overtake him. I recalled him to my side, saying, "He is not a mad- man, my lord; he knows something of your family; H have-known-him-many years," I almost stammered; then, more bravely, I added: "In truth, Lord Veron, he has before warned me against an alliance with your noble house!" "You have known that man for many years, dear Ag- nes!" he replied, almost sternly, certainly in astonishment.   f GATIERING CLOUDS.       125 "Yes, Veron, in my childhood, I saw him very fre- quently and knew him intimately." Lord Veron regarded me steadily. "You say he has warned you against your union with me.-Ah!" he addcd, with his bright smile, "yoi have thrown your spells over the poor fellow, and his head is turned; is that so, darling? What he dare not ask for himself, he grudges me." "Not so, not so, Lord Veron; the thought is impious. I know he loves me-and-and more than that-there have been few for whom I have ever had a warmer regard, and perhaps no one to whom I am in greater debt. Are you shocked, my lord?-but I would not be here beside you but for that brave man. He rescued me from drowning when I was a tiny child.. For many, many years I had no love but his, nor kindly words save from his lips. Oh! if you knew how much I owe to hinm--" and I turned a tear- ful gaze to the young nobleman, upon whose brow a shadow had gathered. "Who is he, Agnes? I am jealous that any one, who is dear to my beloved, should roam about in such a guise. I meet him often in my rambles hereabouts, and his gloomy scowl and stealthy step have marked him. But tell me of him-who is he? Perhaps we can do something for him, and teach him gentler habits, and whoever he be lie should not expose a lady to- remark by such wild performances. Even the servants must wonder I did not punish him." The Durreigh blood was roused, and, though Veron was unable to see any inequality between himself and me, pos- sibly he may then have felt there was something not quite harmonious in our past experiences, whatever there might be in our natures and tastes now. A strange shivering came over me as we wound our way through the woody glen. Not a sigh or movement of mine ever escaped Lord Veron's eye. "Dcarest Agnes,   126     ' BROCKLEY 1OOR. are you ill? Have I pained you? Why are you pale and trembling? Shall we not turn back?" In vain I sought to divert his notice from myself, de- claring I was not ill, and that I felt a chill only because of the sunless road along which we were riding. He then proposed we should dismount and walk until we reached the open road, a mile beyond, a proposition readily ac- cepted both by Mary Rivers and myself. We gathered up our habits and walked toward the sunshine. Mary ran on ahead or loitered behind, ostensibly culling the wild-flowers that grew along the lane, but, in her generous. consider- ation, thinking only to promote the happiness of her " de- voted cousins," as she called us. "Will you, darling, forgive me, if I spoke harshy of your ancient protector? There seemed so little in common between him and my Agnes, that I forgot, perhaps, that it is never safe to trust to appearances." Thus Veron whis- pered as he pressed the hand which lay upon his arm. "There is nothing to forgive. Perhaps I ought not to ask, but did you ever read of a brave fisherman, who was tried for a dark crime-a murder at the Brakes, some months before I went to Hazle-dell?" "Not Elric, the suspected smuggler; surely it is not he!" It is no other." "And you-you, my Agnes, are you that brave girl, rather that heroic woman, who testified to save him-who proclaimed the real murderer-who exposed that crafty perjurer, and whose straightforward and simple narrative of the deed was told again and again in every paper? Where have our wits been? Surely we should have known there wasnever another Agnes Trenham." "Do. not speak ofit. I was neither brave nor heroic; I was a miserable coward, tormenting myself with the recol-   GATHERING CLO UDS.       127 lection of the heroic deed, and heeding bad advice, until poor Elric had suffered every thing but death, and from which, after all, I did not save him. I do not like to think of my weakness of conduct in respect to that affair." Lord Veron smiled; undoubtedly he did not accept my view. I pursued the subject and asked Veron if my old relations with Elric caused him any unhappiness. "Not unhappiness, darling! There is scarcely a pro- priety in continuing an-an intimacy, but in all such things your good sense will govern you. You will find no rules or laws to restrain you, except those you would make with- out my help. My confidence is perfect, or my love could not go hand-in-hand with respect; my love is boundless," and his look was one of surpassing tenderness, as he added, " my respect verges upon reverence-may God save me from calling it idolatry! Poor, unhappy Elric! He may well warn you against a race who lave transmitted to hin but a heritage of shame and sorrow!" "Yes," I continued, "he is like the mettled steed that is harnessed to the dray. He feels the nobility of his blood, and he chafes at his degradation. It is a bitter thought with Eric, to be conscious of gifts and talents that have come with his paternity, which he may not acknowledge, and to harden, in daily toil and traffic, the hands which should clasp his father's equals in honest grasp. Ay, my lord, it is a bitter wrong; but I half forget to whom I speak. You must not suffer for your grandsire's sins." "'You do forget, Agnes," he replied, tenderly, " when you address me in such form; to you let me be, what no one but my mother calls me-perhaps you do not even knovv that my name is Sidney-either that or Vcron-but never, never, I pray, again may 'my lord' come from your loving lips in addressing me." WTe walked silently for a while. Oh, how he started,   128       BROtKLEY bOOR. and how bright his smile, as I almost whispered, "Sidney, I have never told you the story of my life; it is not very long-I can tell you all I know before we remount our horses." He listened with rapt interest as I went over the days, not so very far off. I collected every incident. I told him of my aunt; her peculiarities of character; her triumphant death; her strange burial. I recounted the experience of school-days; I related the short story of my two experi- ments as governess before my happy adoption into his uncle's home. The rest he knew. "The future is my care, and as soon as you are all my own, but a few weeks hence, I trust, my darling, we shall go together to Brockley Moor. We shall tread side by side that wild moor and savage shore. I will build some monument or erect some beacon-light where such treasures for me were rescued from the devouring waters, and per- haps, Agnes, when Elric sees you my happy wife; and learns that a Trenor can love faithfully and honorably, he may relent, and allow us to do something for him. Per- haps the assurance of our divided interests may turn him from his suspected ways and win him to society and Chris- tian life. "And now we must not tarry longer; the mist is thick- ening. I cannot let you walk any farther. I will send the horses back to the castle, and you must consent to go the rest of our journey in the family-coach. Mary will not be sorry, I am sure; this is dull work for her." Mary's eyes sparkled as her cousin handed her in the coach, and took his seat opposite us. She threw her arms around me, and kissed me with cousinly fervor and play- fully scolded her kinsman for quite having stolen her friend, and she did not know what her father and mother would say.-   I HAZLE-DELL AGAIN        129 CHAPTER XXXI. IhAZTiE-DELL AGAIN. MAEY sprang from the coach as soon as the stately dignity of the footman made her exit possible, and in a moment was in her father's arms. "Mamma," she said, and ran to the study where the invalid, better but far from strong, was awaiting our arrival. This time I was counted one of the fanily. As Mr. Rivers congratulated his nephew, he impressed a faitherly kiss-on my brow, and gave us both his blessing. Mrs. Rivers received me with sweet words of affection, and prayed that I might be as happy with Veron as she had been with his uncle. Veron did not return in the old coach; he declared it would give him the horrors to be shut up alone in such stateliness, and, ordering his horse to be brought over to him the following day, the moment of parting was deferred, This would be our first separation since we had pledged our faith, and we both shrank from this first interruption to our daily intercourse. That evening, Lord Veron openly discussed his affairs; and told Mr. Rivers to be prepared to part with me in a few weeks; just as soon, indeed, as the earl and countess returned. He had written to them, and had already taken measures to have his own establishment in North Devon made ready to receive us. He did not intend to make his home hereafter at the castle. How much, in- deed, he should be there at all depended upon circumstances. While he hoped his dear mother would long be spared to preside at the castle, he wished that his wife should rule alone in his own household, and therefore he proposed to establish lhimself in his long-deserted estates on the west- b f- ' t' .'   130      BROOKLEY 1MO   .' ern coast. I liked all this, and in nowise shrank from go- ing to strange places, while Veron protected me. Nay, the very wilds would lose their savageness, were I dwell- ing in their midst with the idol of my heart. Much of this talk, too, I afterward suspected, was to prepare me for his absence a little longer than if he had merely returned to the castle, and it was not until the close of the following day that he came to take leave of me. He folded me to his heart, he held my hand, he played with my unruly curls, and tried by every device to gain one moment more before he said that hated word, and then the 4whole truth came out. "It may be several weeks, my love, before I hold this dear hand again; be prepared then, my Agnes, to invoke your fate for better or worse, when we meet again. I am now going to our Devon home, to Eagle's Cliff, to do what I cannot depute to others, and, when I return, it will be to carry away my captive bird to a fitting cage. God bless you! Don't be frightened if Elric gives you any more of his oracular warnings. And darling, to prepare you for any thing that may occur when I am not at hand to explain and make all straight, should -no! the earl would say nothing unkind to you. Trust to my love, let nothing discourage you; write every, day if you will, an remember me in your daily prayers." He folded me st' closer to his heart. He left a parting bless- ing on m/yips and he dashed off, his horse's feet scarce touchin theground. CHAPTER    XXXII. b^       TL THE SHADOWS DEEPEN. ABOUT a month had passed since Veron's departure to Eagle's Cliff. Scarcely a day had gone by without a letter from him, and none that did not see a page or two of those   THE SHADO IS DEEPEN.       131 "nameless nothings" which form the material of lovers' letters confided to the post-bag. The time, too, had been fully occupied; and, as the few preparations which a dower- less woman has to make were speedily accomplished, I resumed my old position in the house, directing Mary's studies, relieving Mrs. Rivers of all domestic cares, and doing such things in church and the parish schools as were helpful to the good rector. 4 . letter from Veron had just been given to me, and, before I had completed its perusal, a message from Mr. Rivers was brought to me, requesting to see me in his study. A presentiment of evil would have possessed me, had not Veron's letter been bright and hopeful, and, as far as I had read it, spoke of a speedy return and the imme- diate consummation of his dearest wishes. Mr. Rivers looked grave and sad as he took my hand, and led me to a chair beside him. "Dear Agnes, I have not good news for you. My brother has received his son's communication in respect to. your engagement, and he declines to give his consent to the union. Here is his letter; it is better that you should know all. "PARIS, June--, 18-. "MY DEAR RIVERS: I am overwhelmed with amaze- ment at the letter from my only son and beloved heir, 'which has been following me from place to place during the trip, and only this morning reached me. I have not lost one moment in writing to my son, bidding him resign the very dream of the girl, and to come to us without an hour's delay. I never could or should give my consent to such an unequal alliance, and there are reasons why Vcron cannot marry her under any circumstances. I have no fear, however, of his disregarding my wishes in the matter, and only regret that he seems to have conceived a warm   132       BROGKLEY MOOR. regard for the unfortunate girl. But what shall I say to you, who have evidently encouraged and favored this dis- graceful alliance? Was it to revenge upon me the slights you have yourself experienced, in consequence of your own ill-assorted union? Why was your child's governess forced upon us at the castle, and by every witchery in her power, to bring my son under captivity to her beautiful face and accomplished mind? Even my aged mother has been made a party to the plot, and from her, too, there is a revolting show of admiration for the low-born girl, who ought to be the wife of some honest sailor in her native place! Look, too, at her open and unblushing avowal of more than an ordinary acquaintance with a fellow, half bandit, half pirate! one of those amphibious wretches who spend the night in robbery and plunder, and sleep like the bats in caverns and dens all day! Never, never can my proud, high-minded son wed with such a one, and I look to you to let her understand my feeling. I will take care that Veron is en- lightened as to his obligations, and let no hope beguile the girl that, under any circumstances, Veron will act against my wishes. Moreover, there are reasons why it is morally impossible for him to marry her. Make her distinctly understand this also. "At the same time, I can well comprehend the bitter disappointment of such defeated hopes. Veron writes that she is homeless; of course, she is portionless, and de- dendent upon her own exertions for a livelihood. I would much deplore any notoriety in the affair; but, for the sake of my son, I would make cheerfully a handsome settlement upon the girl, to render her independent of work. I would give her any thing reasonable, if she would consent to leave this part of the country and return to her old home. I look to you to arrange this for, me-you, who innocently or otherwise have been the means of bringing the parties to-   THE SA DO WS D EEPE N.      133 gether; and I depend ppon you to stop all further commu- nications between them. "You can scarcely realize the full extent of misery to us all which will be thus averted, and, praying that the blow may not be heavy for my son, I am, as ever, etc., etc., "Your brother, "TgR ENO5." I read every word-twice-thrice-and my eyes re- mained fascinated upon the. page. "Therere are asons why it is morally impossible for him to marry her!" My gaze was riveted upon those words; the hand seemed paralyzed that held the letter. I did not tremble, nor cry, nor faint. I was conscious of the rigidity of every muscle; above all, of the fixedness of vision. Mr. Rivers arose and took the letter from my unresisting fingers; he pressed my hand; he called me by name; but I seemed frozen. I had no power of speech or movement, until, with a mighty effort, I dashed away his hand and seized again the insult- ing page. "Will he buy me off "I cried; and tears came, I believe, and saved me from madness. "We will not speak more at present. Let me take you to your room, my dear child; and, when this first shock is over, we will see what can be done. I doubt not one instant my nephew's firmness. He will be faithful to you, be sure of that." "But, tell me-tell me, what he means by noral im- vossibilities." "I know of no moral impossibilities, my child, except those the earl creates in his proud notions of alliance and equality. They talked in that same style to me, years ago, when I chose a simple, loving bride-fitted by intelligence and education to mate with the noblest of the land; and when, in God's providence, one little child after another   -134      BROCOLEY MOOR. passed to rest, and nota son was left of the six God had given us, they were quick to regard it as a direct judgment of Heaven for having sinned against the law of caste! Be not troubled; so long as Lord Veron is faithful to his love, you have not much to trouble you in the earl'sthreats and predictions. When Lord Veron gives you cause to sus- pect he dreads the consequences of the so-called ill-assorted union, then will it be time for you to consider them as well. Until then, Agnes, be hopeful. I wish it had been otherwise and the earl had opened his arms to welcome as a daughter one whom a prince might receive with pride. As it is, you will have in my nephew's boundless love and respect a compensation for all that is withheld." And it was thus that Mr. Rivers obeyed the imperious commands of his lordly brother: "HAZLE-DELL RECTORY, July -, 18-. "MY LORD: I have your letter, dated June -, from Paris. I hasten to acknowledge it, and to fling with indig- nation from me the gross charges contained in it, and to decline interfering in the matter which has prompted you to break the silence of twenty years and sign yourself, with a series of et ceteras, my brother. "In regard to the attachment existing between my nephew, Lord Veron; and my esteemed young friend-dear almost as my daughter to me-I have only been so far responsible as we all are when God uses us as instruments of his providence. It is true, I believe in a retributive justice even in this world. Most indignantly, also, do I resent the intimation of Miss Trenham's wiles having been cast around your son. I know that she long resisted his advances; and it was not until he had profounded the depth of their mutual love that she consented to become Lady Veron. I placed your letter before the young lady.   THE SHADOWS STILL LENIGTHEi   .  135 She declines any gift or settlement absolutely and entirely, either as your son's wife, or as a bribe to forswear him. The only drawhack to the perfect felicity and satisfaction she contemplates in her union will henceforth be, that the writer of that letter must hold paternal relations to herself, aid to one for whom she feels no ordinary love, and regards with no selfish ambition. As for the young girl herself, I can only say that she is one with whom one of any degree might be proud to wed; and from my soul I rejoice that one worthy of her should be so blest of heaven as to have won her love. With sincere prayers that your views may be changed, I am "Vry truly yours,   RIVEIS." CHAPTER XXXIII. TIlE SIADOWS STILL LENGTHEN.  ABOUT two weeks later there was a noble visitor at the rectory, and he asked for me. Once more I stood be- fore Lord Trenor. I neither trembled nor quailed before his averted glance. The resemblance between him and Elric was greater than I ever supposed. He did not look at me. While he was speaking to me, his eyes. never once met mine. He was far more disturbed than I, and his voice was unsteady, and I saw him shiver frequently. "Miss Trenham, this is a very painful necessity; your uncle--I mean Veron's uncle-" how ghastly pale lie grew as these words escaped his lips--"Mr. Rivers should hae spared us both this necessity." He paused; it was not for ime to break the silence. "Mr. Rivers has read to you my letter?" "I read it, my lord."   136'      BBROCGLEY MOOR. "And it made no impression upon you?" "A very profound impression, my lord." "And what do you propose to do, I would ask?" "I am pledged to do whatever Lord Veron may de- mand!" "Merciful Heavens! Agnes, will you be so mad as to brave me?" "My lord, in pledging my faith to your son, I commit- ,ted my destiny to his keeping, and I abide by his decision. If he holds me to my promise, I have no choice." "Agnes," he said, in such a sad and mournful voice- such a mingling of Elric and Lord Veron-that I was half touched--"Agnes, do you love Veron?" "Why will you mock me with such a question? Did I not love him, would his gilded castles, his long rent-rolls, or the magnificence of his estates, tempt me for one mo- ment to stand before you thus-insulted, despised, sus- pected! Yes, my lord, I love him so much that I cannot, for his sake, forget what is due to his father, although that father has ranked me with the basest-born of earth; he has thought to buy my self-respect, my fidelity, with money and lands Nay, my lord; not all the treasures which yonder sun illumines in his day's course could weigh one feather's weight with me at the sacrifice of my respect and Veron's happiness. Ah! the whole world without him is to me as nothing, while nothing with him is the whole world to me. His love, his happiness, and respect, are the objects of my life. Keep your riches, your titles, and your lands, and we will go to obscurity, if the sight of our happiness offends you. If I am not worthy to be called your daugh- ter, I never need call you father." He had buried his face in his hands, and his gray hair fell in disorder over them as he seemed to struggle with his agony. With the hoary head uplifted, he said, in a husky voice,   THE SHADO fS STILL LEN THEN.     137 "No more, no more of this. Agnes, Agnes I would you break my heart? Mistaken child! I long even now to call you daughter. It would be a balm to feel you might say that blessed -word ' father' to me; but, Agnes," and he stood upright once more, and, with a face ghastly in its gray pallor, he continued, "once more I am sure of your love for my son, boundless, unselfish, ennobling, as you have made  eron understand. I ask, is it not possible for that love to sacrifice self? Let me tell you, and you will sooner or later be made to believe it-let me tell you there is a barrier, perfectly impassable, between Veron and you. I am sure you are noble enough to release Veron, when, as in God's sight, I repeat to you-you can never be man and wife!" My blood was again congealing in my veins, but I found strength to say: Deal not in mysteries, Lord Trenor; I would know the worst, whatever it be. You may confide in my discretion; your secret would never escape my lips." OO obdurate child! O foolish woman! Invoke not a destiny upon yourself and others too heavy, too bitter to be borne I Believe me, you have a fearful responsibility upon you if you neglect this warning, and, as sure as there is a God in heaven, your obstinacy will be punished. Do you care for Veron's happiness? You do! Then antici- pate his decision, and withdrawyourself from this wretched position. His earthly happiness and youi own are sure to be wrecked by any attempt to consummate this forbidden union. Even if you stood together before God's altar, I could say one word, and no power on earth could unite you!  I shrank back awed and terrified, yet not convinced. Indeed, Ibegan to regard the earl as a madman, and feared that, in some such hereditary taint, lay the insurmountable barrier. He left me, very ill-pleased with the result of his mis-   138       BROCIKLEY MOOR. sion. I had committed myself by no pledges, but, secretly resolving to abide by Veron's decision when he had heard from me full particulars of his father's visit, I waited with a heart like lead until this suspense should be ended. I had briefly told him of his father's letter, at which he was evi- dently indignant, although he was too good a son to in- dulge in invectives, however unreasonable his father might seem. Unhappily, he had become involved in a tedious lawsuit in respect to some claim which had been long un- settled, and this was detaining him in Devonshire even after his private matters were arranged. So I had only his letters to console me during those weary days. He declared that he would not discuss the matter with his father. If the latter gave any reasonable explanation of the myste- rious objections, why, of course, he would investigate them, but, as things now stood, there was nothing to be done but to fulfill the promises which not merely bound his -honor, but which expressed all his hopes of earthly happiness. In vain I conjectured, and sought light and counsel witl Mr. Rivers. We always came back to the same conclusions, and quite agreed that, beneath and before all these ominous outgoings, inequality of station was the main ground of objection. We could not discover that Lord Trenor had in any manner anticipated his son's free choice, and prom- ised him, however secretly, in marriage to any other. Neither could Veron learn that his mother was aware of any moral impediment; certainly, neither Veron nor I had any thing on our consciences to prevent our going fearlessly before God's priest to ask his blessing. Had it not been for Elric's grim warning, I might have banished the disagreeable idea altogether, and resigned all thoughts of the castle and its owner, in my anticipations of the future; but, in spite of myself, these fearful warnings would often make me very wretched.   AT BROCKLEY   00M R AGAIN.    139 CHAPTER XXXIV. AT BroOCKLEY M3OOR AGAIN. WHLE awaiting the issue of things, a domestic ca- lamity befell the household in which I had so happily dwelt. A severe fever which had attacked Mrs. Rivers, had a fatal termination, and, after many years, the mantle of sor- row was again thrown over that happy home. -Mr. Rivers was so perfectly stunned by the blow, we almost feared that he might follow too soon the one love of his life, and his friends were most urgent that he should leave Hazle-dell awhile, and join a party who were going to the Continent. After some demur, he yielded to their wishes. Mary was not old enough to accompany him, and it was decided that she should go again to the castle. There, of course, under the circumstances, I could not go, and again must I encounter the cold world until I should again be needed at the rectory. But I required a little rest, and I resolved to go to Brockley once more, and share again with Nellie our ancient home. My birthday, too, my twenty-first, was drawing nigh, and of all places I preferred to spend it at the moor, and uncover the mysteries there of that secret casket which had kept me in wonder since childhood's days. I tarried at the rectory until Mary had departed to her proud uncle's protection, and the stricken husband too had gone, leaving all final arrangements to me. Oh, how melancholy were those last days at the rec- tory! Mary clung to her father as though he were go- ing down to slumber beside her mother, and she, poor child, tenacious of every moment that remained. For himn a light   "O      BRO6KBLER Y MJOR. had been extinguished that could never be relindled, and it had left darkness around him. How heavy was his heart in those hours, in which, for years, it had been his wont to seek the invalid's room; and in cheering her loneliness his own heart had found joy. Those hours had lost their devotion and their blessing, and, with all his strength of principle and religion, he could not walk into that shadowy room, in which nothing had been dis- turbed since she had left it, nor gaze upon the couch which had so lately held her shrouded form, without a little pang. The chair from which she seemed to have just risen, he would not have disturbed; the flowers that she had handled, must dry and wither where she had left them. He would allow no one to touch the half-finished work with which she had beguiled her weary hours. His friends saw-what he was forced to admit himself-that he must withdraw from such painful associations for a while. He committed his half-orphaned child to his own mother's care, and went off with a breaking heart to seek resigna- tion, if not forgetfulness, in other lands and amid other scenes. He tenderly took leave of me, and hoped, ere we met again, I might have stronger claims upon him. CHAPTER XXXV. CHANGES. BRnOCKL4Y MOOn was not exempted from the law of change. Upon my return, after this long absence, I found that the mania of improvement had extended to that once quiet nook. Tall factories loomed up like modern Babels, and the resemblance in their towering structures was helped by the confusion of tongues and busy whirl, and thus com-   CHA NGES.         141 pletely transformed the aspect of the place. The very moor had'been partially redeemed, and long, cheerless rows of brick tenements, called cottages, had been erected on its borders, and now swarmed with human occupants, drawn thither nobody knew exactly how. They seemed, as an old fisherman said, to have risen from the ground it- gelf. Old men and old women, youths and maidens, chil- dren of all ages, emerged like swarms of bees from these human hives at the sound of the early bell, which broke the stillness of the morning, and they all streamed toward the factories which, in their perfection of ugliness, dis- figured the face of Nature. There, life and youth and health were sacrificed to human greed-childhood's face lost its plumpness and fresh rosy tints; youth grew still more pallid, while middle-aged men and women became bowed and worn, with all the marks of old age. And there they toiled on, from the early bell until evening gathered, with but one hour for their mid-day meal and repose. My heart sickened as I roved through the streets which had been shady lanes, deserted alike by rich and poor. Once fra- grant with the sweet country-smells, and purified by the fresh breezes that blew stiffly from the sea; now we had squalid poverty, neglected infancy, premature age; the sweet breezes were poisoned, the atmosphere was heavy with the smoke from the tall chimneys, and a neglect of drainage and general cleanliness made the place no longer desirable. Happily for my quiet of mind and body, my old house was far removed from these factory settlements. What had once been the moor stretched between us, and I stood alone at the farther extremity. Not a tree had grown in all these years, and nothing intervened to shut off my view of the sea. That sea, more than ever precious to me, because of. my long absence from it, rolled on in its eternal surge and   "2      BRO CKLE Y MOOR. swell, yet deep as the depths of human life-and as full of treachery. Its bosom looked calm, as the waves rippled over hidden breakers, and the danger was ever there, even when the surface was smiling and glassy. Such were my reflections as I sauntered along the well-known beach, which even then was threatened with improvements, and has since become what is called an esplanade. Not a trace re- mained of the entrance to the cave, which had been skil- fully closed. The overhanging rock had not yet been re- moved, and I mounted its height, almost expecting to hear the well-known voice that was wont to summon me to quiet haunts. Upon the site, too, of Brockley Hall had been constructed one of the gigantic workshops, and where the smugglers had gone, or where were now the headquar- ters of their unlawful traffic, no one knew, and very few cared. The brave, misguided leader of the band had not been there for many months, probably no one had seen him so recently as myself. The charm of the place was gone-Ichabod was writ- ten upon it; and I fear I showed very little sympathy with civilization and the progress of the age, when I turned away disgusted with the unsightly " improvements " upon Brockley Hill, and found no satisfaction in the busy hum and discordant sounds that reached me from those teeming villages that had sprung into existence as if by magic. I had no choice, nor did I desire any thing else than my old home then. I would have preferred, before all things, to remain at the dilapidated old Moor House, until my birthday was over. The old vicar still preached at White Cliff, and seemed no older than when he had carried me to France; but he no longer visited the chapel on the moor. A beautiful church was rapidly rising there, and its incum- bent, Hubert Carlton, I believe, was a faithful steward and minister. I know his schools were regularly visited, and   THrE G ASKE T.       143 he did what he could to enlighten the minds and alleviate the condition of the operatives. He lost no time in making my acquaintance, and sought to enlist me in his good works; and, little thinking how much I promised, I told him I would do what I could. And thus time wore on, and the long-expected birthday drew nigh. It had been arranged that I should dine with the vicar at White Cliff, and I would have to start in good season. So the opening of that long-sealed packet must be accomplished in the very early hours of day. CHAPTER XXXVI. TIE CASKE: TnI morning at last dawned. I had half hazarded a prophecy of my future upon the state of the weather. There could be nothing more glorious than the inaugura- tion of that day. Had it been my wedding-day, I could not have wished a brighter sky nor a balmier atmosphere. Just as the sun rose from the tranquil waves, I turned my face toward the shore with tho precious casket in hand. I had already put a wreath of white immortelles upon my mother's portrait which I had inherited, and which hung in my sitting-room. I sought a quiet nook, the cool, calm ocean in view. How reverently I touched the sacred cas- ket! How I fitted the key again and again, before I had courage to turn the lock; and, when the mysterious lid was opened, how I trembled as I took from its long-buried place of repose that firmly-sealed package I What a strange power that delicate writing had over me! with what a peculiar fascination I dwelt upon the characters that formed my name! A dizziness stole over me as I broke the seal,   "4      BROCKLEY MOOR. and held that time-stained paper to the light-not a word erased or faded out. I glanced at the signature-"Agnes Alwyn T---;" and, though I could not comprehend its style, again and again I kissed the place where my moth- er's hand had rested. I speak to the heart of the mother- less. None but they can comprehend the wild thrill with which I thus first gazed on this legacy of her who gave me life! Alas for the mystdries of that legacy! I cannot do better than give a literal transcript of its pages. "SCOTLAND, July -, 18-. "MY BELOVED DAUGHTER AGNES: You are, as I sit down to write, just six years old. With the certain con- viction that my days are nearly spent, and that other eyes than mine must watch the development of that physical and mental beauty with which Heaven has richly endowed you, I shall endeavor so to frame my words that they may speak to you with all the force of a mother's love, when my name shall be forgotten upon earth. "It is therefore that I address you not as the beautiful child that plays around me all the day and slumbers in un- conscious innocence in my arms at night, but as a respon- sible, intellectual woman--alas! I dread it-a beautiful woman  "Already your resemblance to her who writes admon- ishes me of what you will be years hence; and I pray God that your beauty may'win for you a happier lot than has been mine. "But to my history-and you shall draw the moral. How much or how little you may know of my life, when you unseal these pages, I cannot even' conjecture; but, presuming that my wishes will be respected, and you will learn my history from myself, I shall omit no detail. I was born of honest and worthy parents; they were poor but   THE CASASKET.        145 respectable and honored, in the place where they lived. My father worked a large farm in the glade near White Cliff; there was I born, the youngest of a large family, all of whom, except my oldest sister, Rachel, had died in in- fancy, leaving for me the opportunity of being spoiled by my over-indulgent parents. I was unfortunately attractive in face and form. I was seen at the village fair, one day, by a high-born lady who was attracted to me, and became so much interested that she lost no time in proposing to adopt me, having been bereaved of all her own little ones. After many a struggle, my parents yielded to her entrea- ties, in the conviction that they had no right to withhold from me the advantages of education and worldly promo- tion which my kind patroness promised. For four years I remained with her, receiving every kindness, and instruct- ed in branches of education that were unknown in the posi- tion of life in which I was born. A melancholy termina- tion of my sojourn came, in the sudden death of my good friend, who died without having made any provision for me, something which had been too long postponed, had she honestly intended the fulfillment of her pledges, which I cannot doubt; and I was thus again thrown upon my father's hands, and reestablished at the Glade. "It was impossible for me to be contented there, and my inquietude was a source of bitter regret to my poor parents. I certainly imagined it was not in my power to return to the habits to which I had been a stranger for four years; and, though I said nothing and tried to adapt my thoughts to those around me, I ha4 not moral strength to accomplish my object; and, accordingly, when it was pro- posed that I should go to Brockley Moor and stay awhile with my sister Rachel, I hailed the idea as a blessing, and in a few day's was domiciled with my sister. I learned her simple work, and assisted her in making the lace which 7   "6       BROCiLEY MOOR. twice a month was carried to White Cliff and sold. These visits were the great features of my life at the Moor; for, at White Cliff, we saw a great many persons, and always dined that day at the vicarage, where we heard the con- versation of intelligent people, and I generally contrived to borrow some interesting book, which would beguile my leisure moments until our next visit. Months thus rolled on, and I began to feel reconciled to the idea of staying altogether at the Moor, when an event took place which colored all my future life. There happened one of those fearful storms which occasionally visited our coast. Amid the terrors of that storm a ship was driven upon the inhos- pitable shore, and the few living creatures of the moor were forced from their homes to render what aid they could. My sister wrapped herself in a cloak, and, seizing a lantern and rushing through the pouring rain, regardless of thunder and tempest, made her way, against the driving hurricane of wind and through floods of water, to the scene of the wreck. Meanwhile I, half paralyzed with fear; hid my face from the blinding flashes, and covered my ears that I might deaden my hearing to the crashing peals of thunder, that seemed the explosion of thousands of cannon beside us, reverberating as many times across the stormy sea, until, finally, they mingled with the scarcely less awful howl of the waves and winds. Never to be forgotten are the ter- rors of that night. "Toward morning the storm lulled, and the moon rose calmly upon the scene where fury till now had reigned. My sister was still abroad, and from time to time I ven- tured to look out to see if she was returning. When she came, it was not alone; a crowd of fishermen were accom- panying her, one group bearing upon their shoulders the form of a man and another carrying a boy. These alone were rescued from the devouring waters. The boy never   THE OASXE T.        147 opened his eyes after he was lifted from the shore, and be- fore morning every pulsation of life had ceased. Long and fearful was the conflict between death and life with the other sufferer. He rallied only after the third day, and gazed wildly upon us, then relapsed into stupor, passing into raving fever, which yielded not for weeks. Who he was we could not learn from the few papers found upon his person. It was not, therefore, in our power to summon any one to his bedside to whom he may have been dear. We had wellnigh abandoned all hope of his recovery, when, one day as I watched beside him, during my sister's occu- pation elsewhere, he suddenly opened his eyes, gazing in- quiringly at me, and in the feeblest voice asked, 'Where am I? where have I been?' "Assuring him he was with friends, I briefly told him all that had happened, and begged that he would not talk. I left him, to call my sister. Our rejoicing over the stranger's recovery was as though he had been a brother. His con- valescence from that hour was rapid. He told us he was Edward Trenham, an artist, who was returning from a Con- tinental trip. I need not go over all that followed that convalescence, and repeat the process by which the stranger won my heart. For weeks he lingered with us even after he had declared to us that he had received letters and re- mittances from his friends. He would have paid my sister princely sums for her entertainment had she not declined to receive any remuneration for doing a duty, but she could not restrain him from bestowing a thousand kindnesses upon us, and in various ways adding to the cheer and com- fort of our little home. My portrait was painted as soon as he was quite well, and sent to the Glade to gladden my mother's eyes and heart. "At length Trenham spoke of leaving us, and watched me as he did so, and a few hours later he declared to me   "8       BROCKLEY M-OOR. his love, and begged that he might not leave the Moor alone. At the same time he confided to me his secret-that he was the son of a nobleman, and was traveling in the disguise of an artist, that he might better study the world. He loved me, he said, and he wished me to marry him with- out delay, but, as his union with any one but a titled lady would meet with decided opposition, he would not expose me to it, but, proposed to retain his assumed name and character, and take me at once to a place that he had in Scotland, where I would be perfectly removed from. the surveillance of those who might be disposed to pry into our domestic relations. I was pledged to secrecy, and readily consented to Trenham's propositions, for he had become a hero in my estimation, and I blindly submitted to any thing he decreed. It was without a qualm of conscience that I took him to my parents; presented him to them; received their blessing, and heard their plaintive entreaties that he would ever love and cherish me, and allow me oc- casionally to revisit the place of my birth. It was with no idea that I was acting a base lie, that I permitted to be published Sunday after Sunday the bans of marriage be- tween Edward Trenham and Agnes Alwyn, and finally stood before God's altar and minister, and in face'of his solemn charge plighted my troth to my noble admirer, and before God and man we were pronounced man and wife.' It was not until far away in my Highland home, that a mis- giving ever crossed my mind, in the leisure that I had for reflection, when Edward was away with gay companions, who were too noble to bring to our retired home. Edward frequently promised to declare me his wife, when he should succeed to his title, a promise which was renewed with most solemn assurances when a son was born. This son your father always called the heir, and gave him his father's Christian name, and for months my husband scarcely left (   THE CAKE T..        149 me. This child was taken from us, cre he had completed his second year; another and other sons were born and buried until we had followed four to their little graves in the village church-yard. Finally you were born. Alas! my child, your birth shed very little light upon our house- hold, for months previous I had scarcely seen your father. Indeed, for years our intercourse had been growing less fre- quent, and sometimes six months had passed and I had not seen him, though. remittances came regularly, and after your birth this amount was doubled. You were two years' old and your father's eyes had never looked upon you, nor did I know more than that he existed, by recognizing the handwriting upon the cover of my remittances, no longer, alas! inclosed in letters, which had grown shorter and colder month by month. "Severe anxiety and sorrow weakened my health, and I felt a conviction that my days would not be many. May I be forgiven, then, if I often wished that you were lying beside your infant brothers, though you, my precious child, were the one bright ray of light and love my poor heart knew. You cafi judge the intensity of anguish, then, that would tempt me to wish that light extinguished and that heart cold! "The'outside and distant world was reflected in the newspapers that found their way to my seclusion, and they served oftentimes to relieve my loneliness. About a year ago I was reading in a London journal the doings of the great and noble, when I discovered your father's name. I read that 'Lord and Lady  ' (I forbear to mention his name-it will only add bitterness to your own heart, per- chance, some future day) 'with their heir and only child, a beautiful boy, some ten years old,? were present at some select gathering of titled people. "I read no more. I thoughlt no more for many weeks,   150      BRO6KLEY MOOR. and, when I had rallied from the dangerous condition into which I had fallen, it was with a heart embittered against every living being, save the sweet prattler who kept her infant vigil at my pillow.  "I then conceived the desperate resolution of braving your father. With all his letters in my possession, the marriage certificate in my bosom, and his ring upon my finger, I started forth for your father's abode in England. I reached the lordly seat where I should have presided and your young feet have wandered, when my weak heart fainted. I sat down upon a stone by the roadside; a lady and fair boy came along, she mounted on a palfrey, and the child galloping upon a pony at her side. They saw us sit- ting there, too well dressed, perhaps, for ordinary beggars, yet in evident suffering. The lady reined in her steed, the lad following her example, and they both dismounted. The boy stood beside you-I knew it was your brother; it was that beautiful woman, I was sure, who had supplanted me in your father's love. - Had not my hour of vengeance come? I had only to ask for my husband, and would not that proud boy and his mother feel the blight that I, in innocence, had endured for years? But no! there was something of sor- row and suffering in her face, too, as she bent over me, and stroked my poor head with her jeweled hand, and I drank the water that the lad had brought, and wept in misery and desolation! "'Come home with, me-come home with me, my poor friend!' she whispered, whom I might have humbled to the dust. "I only said, 'Are you the Lady -- ?' "' Yes, and home is very near; or you can rest here with my boy, and I will send a servant .for you.' "I heeded not the invitation, but asked again if she were Lady --, and how long she had borne the title.   THE CGASKEIT.        151 "I fancy she thought I was half crazy, for she drew her boy aside as she repeated the assurance, adding that it was eleven years since her lord had made her mistress at the neighboring proud hall. ' This,' she added, ' is my only child and heir.' Ay I was it not in my soul to curse the speaker and her fair child? ' This is, mine! ' I shrieked, turning your beautiful face toward her-'my only one. My sons all slumber where their father once wept over them! ' I must have fainted then, for I remember nothing more until I re- vived, upon a comfortable bed in the keeper's lodge. There was I very ill for many days, every one of which saw the Lady -- and her fair boy visiting me ; she, to speak kind words to me; he, to play with the little girl, who ought to have called his father hers. As soon as I felt able to walk a step, I sought to leave the place. Such a movement was strongly opposed by Lady --, who would have carried me to her own house, and kept me there, she said, to assist her in the care of her child and to give him a little play- mate! How the spirit of vengeance wrestled within me to comply with her wishes, and brave your father under his own roof! But something better, perchance, crushed the vindictive wish, and I resolved, after all I had perilled in coming thus far, to return to Scotland and die, leaving you to your father's mercy, if he had such an element in his nature. "Accordingly I quietly left the lodge, during a brief absence of Lady ---  and was wending my way to the town where I should take the coach for Scotland, when I saw a figure approach, that I could never have mistaken, and in a few moments your father and I stood face to face. I am not sure, but I think he would have passed us, but I placed myself before him, and he stopped. "'For God's sake, what do you mean by coming   152      BROCKLEY   0OOR. here? Are you mad, woman?  Do you wish to ruin yourself? ' "' Ruin myself! Nay, Edward, it is not for that I have traveled many a weary mile. I have come here to expose you-to upbraid you-to publish your infamy-to dishonor your so-called heir-to remind you of the fair boys resting in that Scottish church-yard-to make you look at your youngest-born with her mother's heritage of beauty!' ' Come, come, Agnes, your mind is raving; you will do nothing of the kind.' "'And what shall prevent me? Not fear of you- wretched, wretched man! What shall prevent me de- claring myself your wife years before the no less injured woman, whom you allow the world to call by your proud title, all too good for me? What is to hinder my child, the last of the flock, born in honest wedlock, too, having an honored place and name above that bastard boy, that you have dared in the very face of Heaven to proclaim your lawful heir?' "'Be calm, Agnes. I will do all for you and your child that you have any right to expect. Have I ever failed in the generous care of your wants? If you are wise, you will confide in my justice rather than defy me to anger.5 "'Confide in your justice--with this ring, just where X you put it fifteen years ago, with the pledge of the wedding- hour still ringing in my ears, and you living! How shall I characterize your relations with the woman who bears your noble name, and your poor wife languishing in solitude and unmerited reproach? Justice, my lord, it is something be- sides your justice that I must look to. Justice, surely, but not at your hands do I seek it, and thank Heaven I am in a land where wrongs like mine need not slumber in neglect!' "' Tut, tut, Agnes! this is very heroic; but, perhaps,   THE 'CASKET.        153 you 'do not know that your claims will not stand daylight' inspection!' ' What do you mean to imply, my lord? Am not I your wife by every law, human and divine? Cannot a word from me send desolation to yonder proud home and doom you to a pitiable, ignominious fate-make you the scorn of all hearts and the loathed of all eyes?' "He affected to laugh at my threats, as he called them: and said my claims were baseless. "' Defy me not to test their strength!' I replied, in tearless anguish. ; Tempt not the single drop of pity that  still slumbers in my bosom, not for you, false betrayer, but for the poor, deceived creature who fancies herself your wife, and the helpless boy who dreams not of the name- less life your sin has conferred upon him, and which it is in my power th shout from one end of the realm to the other! ' "He blanched, for my words were too earnest and my manner too firm for mere threats. He advanced toward me, and sought to take my hand. "' Nay, Agnes, you will not do this. You will return to the home where we were once so happy. I will go with you to Scotland. I will do all I can to repair the wrong. I will visit you often.' "' Repair the wrong, and visit me often, my lord! I am not in a position of wrong; and, as for visits, they are my right. It is my claim that you dwell with me- you are my husband. This is your child, to whom you have other duties than support. Nay, nay, it is not in Scotland Where you violate God's law and man's law, too. It is there-it is there,' and I pointed to his home. 'It is there where lust has dominion and sin revels. It is she whom you allow the world to dignify with your llnac- who is the injured, blighted woman, wh-os wrong you cannot repair, nor whose fair boy you nor all the wisdom   154      BROCKLEY MOOR. under heaven can give the right to be your heir! Strike me to the dust if you will, but there is not in my blood the power to wash out the past; and what is it you would have me do? Crawl back to Scotland, as though I were what she is, and have my poor child all her life bear the taunts that are by heritage that son's, to whom all that is good and beautiful in this world must be offered! I spurn you-I would curse you were you not her father! Never, never shall you enter that abode I call my home, while you live here in sin. I came here to destroy your false security and pro- claim your character to the astonished world; and compas- sion, not for you, but for those wretched ones, more wronged than even I am, restrains me! I return to Scotland, to haunt you no more in this life. Look at me, Edward, wan and wasted as I am! Think of me as I was when first you saw me; look at me, and tell me if my lease of life be long. No, Edward-your falsehood, your treachery, your cruel abandonment have destroyed me, have little by little worn out the springs of life, and it will not be long before our child will be motherless, and worse than fatherless! 0 Edward, Edward! would to God I had gazed upon your coffined form, ere I had known you false to yourself and every sacred obligation of your nature! I did not, with all I have suffered at your hands, ever doubt your rectitude, nor entertain for a moment the possibility of such perjury of soul, until the truth was forced upon me. I do not curse you, I leave that to Heaven! I cannot predict in what form the judgment will come-but come it will, as true as God is just, and as retribution is sure! Ay! I am weak enough to pray that it may fall lightly on you, for your principles and virtue perchance were more feeble than your temptations. May God send you a repentant heart, and ,may you never curse the hour that you were rescued from the fury that contended for your life upon Brockley shore I   RTIE CASKET.        155 I forgive you! My dying prayer shall be that God may pardon you! and thus farewell. Blessed be God that I can forgive!' "I turned away, and he followed. He scized you in his arms and bowed his face upon you, begging that I would leave you with him; that he would be unremitting in his love. "I refused .to part with you, telling him that one who could so bitterly desert the mother would be no more faith- ful to her child. And thus, tenfold more wretched than when I alighted, I mounted the coach again, and in a few days was in my Highland retreat. "It has since been my occupation to prepare these pages for you-you will be a woman ere you see them, if my sug- gestions are regarded. My work in this life is nearly done, and I have made every arrangement by which you go to your aunt Rachel's care when I have passed away. More- over, I have preferred to forego the advantages of pecuni- ary aid from'your father, in order that your aunt may be perfectly free to do with you as she thinks best, and I have no doubt that when you read these pages your heart will be a faithful witness of the good sense and wisdom of any course my sister would suggest in bringing you up. Your aunt does not know of your true lineage, but, if it ever should be necessary to prove your parentage, and a fisher- man named Elric be still living at Brockley Moor, lie can give you all the information you wish, as he was not only a witness of the marriage ceremony, but cognizant at the time of your father's disguise. The other witnesses could only be serviceable in indentifying the personage as the one to whom I was married, but I trust you may never hear of your father, nor seek to unravel the mystery which hangs around his name. He could be no comfort to you, and you surely would be a hated object to him. The man Elric, to   156   .   BROCKLEY MOOR. whom I have already referred, is most worthy of your re- spect. He was warmly attached to me in my youth, and would I had returned his regard! At all events I am sure, if my child ever need a friend, that Elric will be ready to serve her. "I inclose herewith the most important of your father's letters, our marriage certificate, and my wedding-ring, with valuable jewels that your father lavished upon me during the first happy years of our union. "Perhaps, beloved child, you will scarely thank me for this revelation, which may come as the first cloud over a sunny summer day; but it may be that many who now look askance at you when I am no longer able to assert my honor, may hereafter surround you and cast reflections upon your mother's virtue. For such you have the credentials of my rectitude, but to yourself alone is my great secret confided. "In the sad recital of my experience, a lesson, too, may be learned, which it may be well for you to remember. "Let not your eyes be dazzled, nor your heart capti- vated by the allurements of rank and position. However well fitted you may be by nature, however refined in spirit and cultivated in mind, form no alliance above that position in life in which Providence has placed you; and, above all, if you are loved beyond all doubt; if you love a man even as your own soul, and he speaks of private marriage; se- crecy of any kind, or any step to which you could not chal- lenge the world's inspection, reject him-cast aside his offer and his love, though he bore the guise of an angel, and had the wisdom of Solomon! Concealment in such matters is a proof of something wrong, and, should the temptation come to you at it did to me, think of your mother, and pause with a prudence that is not too late. "And now, in this world, I commit you to the care of ' l   ANOTHER LETTER.        157 one who is the soul of truth and integrity, and will faith- fully train you; beyond this world, I leave you with him who is the Father of the fatherless, and the God of the forsaken child. May He bless you, purify and guide you here. May He receive you hereafter in those higher realms, where, by his infinite mercy, I trust we may meet again I Farewell-a last farewell I God bless my child. "AGNES ALWYN T--   ." Such Were the coveted treasures of that long-closed box. Melancholy heritage, mournful history, to plant itself thus deeply in a child's heart! Again and again I conned over each line, until I could close my eyes and repeat the mournful story from beginning to end. How happy was I-how full of gratitude to my mother that she had not yielded ime to my unnatural father I "Doubtless," I said, "he has long ago gone to his account, and no accident can ever put me in his power." CHAPTER XXXVII. ANOTHER LET'r'lR. WEEKS passed on, and no letters had been received from Veron since I left'Hazle-dell. My heart grew heavier each day, burdened with the weight of my mother's sad history-her admonition lingering in my mind-and added to this was my utter ignorance as to LordVeron's move- ments and sentiments since the unhappy interview with his father. The sunshine of life seemed to be over, and I was only twenty-one. It was happy indeed for me that our faithful curate at Brockley gave me occupation for my hands and thoughts.   158      BROCKLEY MOOR. Upon returning from one of my charitable errands, I found a letter in Nellie's care. My heart leaped as I recog- nized the noble seal and the well-beloved handwriting. The letter may tell its own story of unwavering devotion; and who will wonder that my mother's warning was forgot- ten, and my heart yearned more fondly than ever to my faithful and well-beloved Veron? "EAGLE'S CLIFF, August -, 18-. "How many weeks, dear Agnes, have passed since I penned a line, your own heart has kept count, I know! I have been very, very ill, and am ordered off to -a milder climate before the autumn sets in. I had hoped not to go alone, but reflection has brought me to the conclusion that it would be ungenerous to hasten our union under the cir- cumstances, and, as my case is regarded as critical, and I must obey and leave at once, I have thought it best to ask my beloved mother to accompany me. She, too, is sadly in need of some recuperative influences. The earl does not care to leave his estates again; and before this is in your hands, beloved, I shall be on my way to Madeira. I am glad to avoid the yearly caravan of travelers, who rush to Southern Europe, and it is a relief to find that the climate of Madeira is supposed to suit my needs. From the sea- voyage, too, I hope to derivemuch benefit. "Nearly the width of the land lies between us, and in spite of admonition and medical restriction I could not part without holding you once more to my heart, and hearing from your own lips that sweet confession which is ever fresh and ever precious. I dare not now allude to the unkind and unwarrantable conduct of my father, which has caused you so much anguish, and of which, languishing upon a sick-bed, hovering between life and death, I knew nothing until a few days since, when your letters were brought to light.   ANvUI guE'  LETTER.      169 And how cold this letter seems! And yet I must be calm. How fearful I am to needlessly arouse your anxieties, when I say that my recovery depends upon my keeping a quiet mind! Once again, I repeat, with God's eye on me, that you are mine by every thought and vow, and nothing but God's providence can ever separate us. If He spare me to put my foot again upon England's soil, before the second sun shall set you shall bear my name. "My mother is with me, and strongly urging me to put my writing aside. God bless you, dearest! My mother adds a line. "Thine own       SIDNEY." "MY DEEAR CHLD: I have' caused our Sidney to close his letter, and I fear that undefined apprehension may seize you on his account. He has been very ill. A neglected cold, aggravated by mental anxiety, and perhaps too much exposure, merged into a fever, in which he was wildly de- lirious. In his ravings he called incessantly for you, and the anguish of his father and myself can scarcely be im- agined. We quite despaired of his recovery, when his disease took a sudden turn, and he passed from great fever- ish delirium to a state of prostration equally alarming. In fact, for days, nay, I think for three weeks, he lay as one in a stupor. He has graddally roused, but the utmost caution is needed. A relapse would inevitably be fatal. His medical advisers are strongly inclined to favor a sea-voyage preparatory to a mild winter, and we have just learned that a ship with superior accommodations will sail ten days hence from Liverpool to Madeira. In many respects this is a wise prescription. "There is a monthly mail to the island; he must hear from you and'know that you are well. Need I say that there is nothing on earth for which I am more solicitous   160       BROCKLEY MOOR. than my son's happiness, and it is my daily prayer that the obstacles which the earl sees in the way of his happy union with one to whom my heart yearns, may speedily be re- moved; that she, I devoutly pray, may, with God's bless- ing, ere long, call me-        MOTHER." The mingling of joy and sorrow that these letters brought to me can well be imagined. Joy that my Sid- ney was faithful and true-which, indeed, I had never doubted-the sweet letter of his mother, from whom Lord Veron inherited his own loveliness of character, was a great consolation to me. Still I shuddered as I thought of his illness and his still critical condition. Could it be-was it possible that he might never return? I asked myself this, and then what would life be to me if such a sorrow were in store for me. My heart had the heaviness of lead, and my eyes burnt with restrained tears. Still there was hope. Oh, what young heart is without hope! I reasoned myself into a steady belief that the overhanging clouds would be scat- tered, and the beauty of life would be tenfold hereafter, for  having once been shrouded. So I resigned myself to life's occupations and duties, commencing at once a letter which should be a brief record of each day's doings, with its hopes and doubts, to be sent off in the monthly dispatch that went to Madeira. CHAPTER    XXXVIII. THE GOVERNESS AGAIN. How much the loneliness of my position preyed upon me I might not very soon have discovered, had not the necessities of my position forced some more active duties   THE GOVERNESS AGAIN.       161 upon me, and something more profitable than I could ac- complish at i3rockley Moor. My mind was not quite so clear as to what I should do. I seemed to have duties now to Lord Veron, and it was hardly seemly that the intended Lady Veron should be seeking her daily bread again, in a position so generally regarded as but one remove from menial. No other means, however, seemed at my command, and my private income was scarcely sufficient for even my simple wants. While I was debating the question, its solution came to mo in a mbst unsought and unexpected manner. I was startled one morning by a furious knocking at my door, while I espied from my window a gay equipage, which seemed traveling for the summer. A footman, in showy livery, stood at the door, demanding Miss Trenham-Miss Agnes Trenham. He was directed to my rooms. A card was in his hand, which he passed to me, observing a digni- fied silence, while I made out the clumsy German text, in which the names of "( Mr. and Mrs. Smythe Browne, and the Misses Browne," were successively engraved. I restrained the smile which lurked around my mouth, and asked if the ladies wished to see me at the coach, or would they ascend. "It is only a call of civility, miss, and my lady hopes that you will call upon her after four o'clock this after- noon." I received his explanation, and directly after heard the coach drive off. Now, Mr. Smythe Browne was the purchaser of Brocklcy Hall, and proprietor of one of the unsightly factory-build- ings of which I have spoken, having first built for himself an extensive dwelling, which was neither castle nor cot- tage, but an odd and extensive construction of stone and timber. To this establishment I repaired at the appointed time.   162       BROCKLEY M0OO0R. [ was received by the whole family with a mixture of kind- ness and patronage. The lady informed me that they had purchased Brockley Hall and adjoining estate; the young ladies in turn informed me of the purchase, and, as if to leave no room for doubt, the gentleman added his testimony. The matter of family ownership having been established, the next attempt was to impress me with the fact that the present mansion had been erected by themselves 'for their own oc- cupancy; that they had expended enormous sums in fitting it up, and that they had been to still greater expense to render the barren fields (the moors) sightly and " graceful- looking." After all," they said, "Brockley was an awfully dull place." These social creatures had come from Manchester, where life is gay, they said. Mrs. Smythe Browne declared that there was no society whatever at White Cliff-there was nobody; but that she and her daughters, upon the promise of spending every "' season " in London, had consented to sacrifice themselves to Mr. Smythe Browne's laudable am- bition of being the richest man in England. I listened in respectful silence, not being able to make the most gen- eral reply, for, when Mrs. Smythe Browne paused for breath, one of the Misses Browne hastened to her aid; and when all three of the Misses Browne were exhausted, and there seemed a chance for a word on my part, then Mr. Smythe Browne would be sententious for a few moments; mean- while the ladies recovered breath, and the programme was repeated. At length I was obliged to interrupt this 'stream of family history, thinking my call had been long enough. I rose to take leave. "Not yet, not yet, Miss Trenham; don't go " they exclaimed, in chorus; " we have not said a word about the business which has brought you here." I was quite aghast, but, finding no opportunity to dis-   THE GOVERNESS AGAIN.       \163 claim any thought of business in my call, I was speedily made to comprehend that my residence, under certain cir- cumstances, was desired in the Browne mansion. The mat- ter was put before me in five different forms, by as many members of the family, before I could venture an opinion. Requirements were likewise stated, and before they could possibly be satisfied of my ability to meet them. The salary was made known, and I was informed that upon the following Monday the family coach would be sent to con- vey me to the family mansion. I felt somewhat amazed, when, once more in the solitude of my room, I had time to reflect upon the events of the day, and realized that, almost without my own consent, I was con- sidered as pledged to a year's sojourn with the Brownes. I was to teach Miss Augusta, the eldest, French and the " higher branches of music and singing; "Miss Rhoda, French and music generally; Miss Belinda, the rudiments of English and French, and elementary music. In short, 1 was to "accomplish " the young ladies, who, for some reason not assigned, had been badly neglected in the high branches. At the same time I was to be companion to their mamma and themselves, accompanying them to London in the win- ter, and, as the ladies said, " be exactly one of them." For this I was to be generously paid, two hundred pounds a year being proposed as my compensation. I was startled by the ,munificence of the offer. It con- trasted almost royally with the pittance for which I toiled, and with the slender remuneration upon which I had been so happy at the rectory. My experience, however, left me in no doubt that it would be fairly earned; so I acquiesced. Monday morning came, and with it the showy equipage, which soon set me down at my new home. Every thing had been provided for my comfort, even enjoyment, and I found myself installed in luxury.   164       BROOELEY MOOR. Two beautiful rooms, completely though gaudily fur- nished, were placed at my disposal, and contained, besides the appliances for comfort, a piano, writing-table, and work-stand, offering ample resources for my leisure hours. Pianos, indeed, seemed natural to the house. Besides my own, each daughter had one, and the family sitting-room and the drawing-room were each similarly furnished. The re- sult may be imagined, with such suggestions everywhere and so many ready fingers about. My duties were not unreasonably heavy, nor my position made uncomfortable. Something like deference was paid to my wishes and suggestions. Both parents and children were amiable and considerate. Their aspirations to be re- garded genteel and fashionable never tempted them to override the feelings of others, while their good sense kept their ambitions free from vulgar assumption, and preserved them from social blunders. They never fawned upon those above them, nor ostentatiously condescended to those be- neath them. Mrs. Browne possessed a thoroughly kind, heart and generous nature. She was wofully illiterate, and by de- grees confided to me her sense of her own great deficien- cies of education. These in a quiet way I undertook to remedy, but the work was slow and difficult. Yet my painstaking help at length mastered habit, and her speech and orthography lost most of their blemishes. Her grati- tude for the delicate care that had wrought this great im- provement testified itself in the many rich gifts she lav- ished upon me, and, when I attempted to remonstrate, my objections wre silenced abruptly. "Not a word, my child! This i one of my pleasures; I have not many in life, and do not deprive me of this. Be- sides, you never bargained to teach me." The girls were likewise amiable and generous, but   THE GOVERNESS AGAIN.        165 hopelessly vapid in character, and their natural dullness de- fied any great results of education, though they made hon- est effort at improvement. My life was therefore a busy one, and my. duties stretched over twelve of the twenty- four hours. Perhaps it was my conscious devotion to thenm that won for me so much favor from Mr. Smythe Browne. He probably saw that I worked hard for my stipulated salary. Yet my thoughts often strayed back to the happy days at Hazle-dell, and to those still brighter winter days at the castle. In thinking of the past, it was difficult not to look forward somewhat to days that might be brighter still. I had one letter from Mary Riversj who was pining at the castle. She missed the inspiration of the hours that were graven in golden characters on my own memory. The castle, she said, was not cheerful without her old compan- ions. Her grandmother had grown very infirm, and her uncle was gloomy and morose, scarcely emerging from his library. I longed to be with the dear child again. From Lord Veron I had letters by every mail. For the first I watched long and anxiously. It told me of his a-rri- val, of his greatly improved health, and his hope of return- ing quite restored to his dear home. Later advices ac- knowledging my earliest letters, though less satisfactory, were yet full of cheer and hope. Thu's time wore on, and the London season was at hand. In due time we found ourselves at this great centre of life, to share in its huge social pulsations.   166       BROCKLEY MOOR. CHAPTER XXXIX. A LONDON SEASON. A LARGE, elegantly-furnished house, of ample resources for all social projects, and in a fashionable street, had been taken for our use, and there we were soon comfortably in- stalled. Unhappily for Mrs. Browne's ambitious hopes, she was just outside the privileged circle. Mr. Smythe Browne, still in commerce, and not yet representing any constitu- ency in the lower. House, had no claims that could bring his wife and daughters into the royal presence, and it was with ill-disguised vexation that they read the fascinating accounts of the court presentations. Nevertheless, nothing daunted, they set themselves vigorously to work to use such power as they possessed, which is summed up in one word- money. Their striking equipage was to be seen daily at the park, and on Sunday before the most fashionable church of the metropolis. Their sumptuous box at the opera offered to the ladies full scope for the display of glittering jewels and rich dresses, and I was generally forced to accompany them. Finally, it was decided to give a series of entertain- ments, which, after a careful survey of the social field, and a measuring of the social resources, resolved itself into a programme of elegant dinners, and small, select musical evenings, to be wound up by a ball. They had the sagacity to be well advised in these matters, and felt their way through them with more success than always rewards such adventures. I was called to lend my judgment, and found my patrons quick to perceive dangers and adroit in the social strategy that so largely compensates for lack of social strength. The dinners were in the best taste, and fault-    A LONDON SEASON.        167 less as to the cuisine, and would have gratified a more refined appreciation than my good patrons' were able to draw to them. This was equally true, of the musical soirecs, which were not left to the desperate chances of amateur art, but made sure by the enlistment of profes- sional talent of the highest order, and a programme of the most classic selection. Certainly, if my friends could not command success of the kind they sought, they deserved it; and their gratification may be judged when, a day or two later, the Morning Post contained a flattering notice of these efforts, rendering full justice to the taste, artistic merit, and liberality displayed. There was bitter with the sweet, however, in the qualifying remark of the notice, that there had been no entertainments in the highest cir- cles of society more elegant, costly, and agreeable, than were enjoyed by the " favored few " in the splendid draw- ing-rooms of Mr. Smythe Browne, the well-known York- shire manufacturer. Nothing could take this fly out of the fragrant ointment, until my patrons saw their splendid drawing-rooms quickly sought by the anxious many who succeeded the " favored few, and rout followed rout, din- ner upon dinner, until in the long, bright days of summer, when the nightingale was singing in the groves of Rich- mond, while the streets of the city were stifling with heat and dust, the season wound up with a ball, which, I sup- pose, -was like all others, for it was my first and last. I only remember that it seemed to me a most unnatural pro- ceeding. The house, blazing with light, its atmosphere heated and oppressive, even before the sunset glory had faded from the west or the guests had arrived, was to me a place to be avoided, and I would gladly have winged my way to the quiet and calm of our country-home. The season had been a success in another sense to the Brownes, for all of his well-portioned dautgters were en-   168       BROCKLEY MOOR. gaged in marriage to acceptable suitors. Thefiance of the second daughter was an "M. P.," and distantly connected with a noble iouse. The elder girl had been won by a gen- tleman in the diplomatic service, and would reside abroad; while number three had captivated a bachelor, reputed to be of very large wealth. Thus the following season prom- ised brilliantly, for Mr. Smythe Browne had stipulated in the case of each of his daughters a delay of marriage, that would give to his family all the social advantages of such alliances. CHAPTER XL. SMYTHE BROWrqNE, JUNIOR. MY year's engagement had expired, and I was prepared to retire from my kind protectors. Indeed, I had long resolved to leave them as soon as they returned from Lon- don. The time was at hand, according to Lord Veron's let- ters, when he should sail for his own country. He did not expect, however, to arrive before the close of summer, and he delicately hinted that it might be necessary for him to leave England during the winter; in that case he bade me be in readiness to accompany him, for he vowed he would not again leave me behind. He begged me not to renew any engagements, and, if possible, to withdraw from a work for which I should have little longer any necessity. The summer was waning, and my year had more than expired, when I first intimated my intention of retiring from the post. I was conscious of crimson cheeks as I con- fessed to Mrs. Smythe Browne that I expected some friends in a few weeks who desired me to join them. The intelli- gence was received with unfeigned regret. Even the gen-   SMYTHE BROWNE, JUNIOR.       169 tleman expressed himself with much warmth, and said he had hoped I would always remain with his wife, especially as her daughters would soon leave her. She, poor lady, wept with sincere sorrow; and finally I promised to stay with her up to the last moment. The summer and early autumn had been very gay with the visits of the three be- trothed and other London acquaintances, who were now fast friends of the manufacturer's family, and we were in such a whirl that I found very little time for reflection. Amid the crowd of visitors there suddenly appeared the eldest child of the family, the hopeful heir to its wealth. I had heard of him occasionally, as letters :with various Conti- nental post-marks arrived; but evidently he and his father had 'parted because of some follies, of which I knew nothing.                     I The fear of not being able to do justice to Smythe Browne, Jr., without appearing to exaggerate, almost re- strains me from a description. In his own estimation, 7this young man was a perfect Beau Brummell, to be which was the height of his ambition. Nature, unfortunately, had been niggard in meting out inches to him; and his child- like, slender frame, with his tiny foot and hand, of which he was so proud, would have been no discredit to a lad of twelve. Upon his head I never saw a hair astray; and its perfectly-polished surface would have served as a mirror for his sisters. His linen was ever of exquisite purity, and his cravat tied with mathematical precision. His boots were ever guiltless of dust or even dimness, and shone al- most as brightly as his hair. He smoked from morning until night, and must have forsworn books, for I never saw one in his hand. He had not yet determined whether to "take a profession," or quietly become the son in the respectable manufacturing house represented by his father. This young gentleman proved a great cross to ie. Iis 8   10o       BROCKLEY MOOR. sisters doted upon him, and his cigar was not at all dis- agreeable to them while they were at their French lessons. His perpetual humming, when he was not smoking, in no- wise interrupted the flow of their music while, at their piano-exercises. Even my quiet hours with their mamma had vanished, for this hopeful scion had free access to all his mamma's rooms. In my own quarters only could I feel free from his offensive intrusions. In all my life I had never felt so strong an antipathy as for that same pale- faced individual. I could not even admit him to be one of the harmless order, and avoided him as much as possible; but in no place save my own chamber could I escape his presence. One day I had walked off quietly to the sea-shore, and had even ventured to my lofty seat upon the rock, when the young gentleman appeared almost as soon upon the beach. He sprang upon the rock beside me, remarking it was "a deuced fine prospect." Not precisely liking the proximity, I descended quickly upon the beach, where he was as soon beside me. "Now, don't be scared. You are a confounded fine girl, and needn't be so shy of a fellow." "Mr. Browne, let me beg that you will remember what you owe to yourself, if you can so readily forget what is due to me. Under no circumstances do I permit a gentleman to address me thus familiarly. I have come here, moreover, for rest and recreation, and will feel very much obliged if you will leave me." "'Pon my soul, Miss Agnes, you are very touchy! I only said you were a confounded fine girl, and you order me home." I did not wish to quarrel with him, nor hear his sickly flatteries, so I turned away to leave the spot. He seized my arm. "Don't go, Miss Agnes; I have no   SMYTIIE B]RO WNE, JUNIOR.    - 171 feeling worse than the profoundest admiration. I am al- ways unlucky when I try to say any thing pretty! Now, I followed you here to tell you a secret-don't turn away. I am in right good earnest." I regarded him closely, and the faintest possible color had tinged his usually livid face. His eyes dropped be- neath my gaze, and he stammered painfully as he tried to tell me how much he pitied me-how he appreciated the forlorn life I led-how he had gradually learned to love me, as he had watched the faithful discharge of my duties. I would have thanked him, had I not read his dishonest pur- poses in his downcast look and hesitating tone. "Pray, sir, what remedy do you suggest?" "I love you, Agnes." "You love me; what then?" "Why, I would put you in a position where you would not have to toil." "What position?"I asked. He paused and stammered out something. "Be explicit, if you please, sir." He paused again, and I was silent. "Agnes," he faltered at last, "I love you--I admire you more than any girl I ever saw." I checked the rebuff that rose to my lips as I was turn- ing away. "Don't go so unceremoniously. I love you, and it hurts me to see you toiling on in this fashion for the women yonder. You are better looking, and know more, than the whole lot of them. Be reasonable, now, and listen to my proposition." "You propose to marry me, then, I understand?" "Well-not-just-not exactly that; but I do propose to make you very comfortable." "Oh! you would not marry me. Explain, then, how   172       BR OCLEY MOOR. an honorable admirer can put a lady in a comfortable posi- tion." "Don't pretend, now, not to understand. I say I love you, and you know what I mean. I can support you in a position where my admiration-my devotion-my-my-" "Could you support me any more comfortably and hon- orably than your parents do?"I asked, smothering my rising wrath, but determined now to force him to plainness and punish his insult. "But, confound it! think how you slave! Just fancy a little cottage all covered with vines and roses, where you have nothing to do but amuse yourself and me." "Certainly a very pretty picture; but go on." "'Pon my soul, Agnes! this is all affectation. Fellows with such heaps of money asI shall have don't marry gov- ernesses! and you need not think to entrap me in that style. I say I love you, and will do every thing for you that is reasonable. You cannot escape the fate of your class. All governesses come to this first or last, and you will never have a better chance;" and he approached me, as though he would take my hand. "Dare not to contaminate me with your unclean touch," as I shook him off. "Pitiful shadow of a man! Yet your soul is, if possible, meaner than its sickly shell! I do un- derstand you, and spurn you as the reptile under my feet! I would not be your wife if a crown came with you, much less should you dare to approach me, under the cover of my position, with dishonorable suggestions. Sooner-a thou- sand times sooner-would I trust myself to the mercy of yonder waves than in the most honorable relations to your cowardly, misshapen heart! Take your riches to some other market. Profane not the sacred word of love to my ears by such degrading associations! Approach me not- -I will hear no explanations-I will receive no apology!"   8AMYTHE BiRO WNE, JUNIOR.     173 I walked home, indignant yet humiliated, and my pur- pose firmly taken to expose myself no longer to such insult and annoyance. I informed nmy kind host that circum- stances would oblige me to leave him at once. There was no affectation in the tears shed by my grate- ful mistress, nor the regret of the young ladies. The father, however, more shrewd than the rest, was not to be put off with vague reasons for my leaving them, and he called me to his presence. "Agnes, has any thing occurred," he asked, " in this household to make you hasten your depart- ure? Tell me in all frankness." I attempted to evade a direct reply, and said that he knew I had long been contemplating this withdrawal. He fixed his sharp eyes on me. "Has that misguided boy said any thing to wound you?" he asked, sternly. "My dear sir, don't question me. It is better that I should now leave your house, where I have been happy. Your kindness will ever be remembered." In another, moment he had summoned his son, and in such tones as made me quail. Escape for me was impos- sible; and we stood like two culprits before a judge; "What have you said, sir, to this young lady which was driven her from my protection?" "Why, father, what a mean-spirited thing she is to come and tell tales of me, as if she were my governess," and he affected to laugh. "She has told no tales of you 1 I ask you wherein you have given offense?" -"Egad, father, you needn't be so sharp on a fellow for telling a pretty girl he admires her." "And have you dared to forget what is due to this young lady, while she is under my roof? I insist upon knowing to what extent your folly has led you." In vain I remonstrated, the whole story had to be told.   j174  .    L. . V /1 J JJL- .L jL V Lv- and it roused the very depths of anger in the honest soul of the father, who burst out in withering epithets of scorn and rage to the son. "Had you asked Miss Trenham in honorable marriage, and she, who I know already has refused more than one eligible proposal since she has been with us, had honored you by consenting to be your wife, it would have been a happy day for you and for us, and I would cheerfully have made her independent of your folly. But that you should so disgrace yourself and family by insulting a lady, as far above you in every respect as that sky is above the earth, completes the measure of your offenses! That money, of which you have not earned a farthing, and which gives you all the influence you have in the world, shall henceforth be doled out in such sums as will not tempt any unwary flies into your damnable toils. Begone from my sight, and if the shame and sorrow of your father can make Miss Trenham forget the cowardice and licentiousness of his son, let her know, then, that my heart is humiliated at the bitter re- membrance you have thus laid up for her and for your family."  The honorable old man extended his hand to me as he said: "' You will not hold his parents responsible for his sins and follies. When he\ was born, we were in humble cir- cumstances, and, perhaps-perhaps-his mother indulged him too much for his good. He is no comfort to any of us." I left the good people the following morning, before the accomplished young profligate had risen from his couch.    -LA JL L          175 CHAPTER XLI. AT HOME. "Bn it ever so humble, there is no place like home," so sang my heart as, in the sweet freshness of a morning in early September, I retook formal possession of my homely rooms on the moor, and stowed away my effects in my own neat, sweet-smelling presses. The evening before I dined with my ancient guardian, who seemed as immovable in years as the mile-stones which for a generation had marked the distance between the vic- arage and my moorland home, I arranged my simple rooms with flowers, and put the freshest of curtains to my win- dows. There seemed to be an extraordinary lightness in my heart, and an inspiration to make all things bright and gay. Even upon my own toilet I bestowed more than usuacare, and toward evening it was scarcely with surprise that I heard steps mounting to my very door. I was conscious of conflicting feelings, which others have, no doubt, felt before. I was flushed, yet I was chilly. I was quite pre- pared for the meeting, although my cold hands trembled as they opened my door, and were clasped by Mr. Riveis, be- side whom stood his nephew, calm and self-possessed. It seemed strange, to meet with so much composure, after a long, eventful separation, and with that momentous to-morrow before us! A moment's pause, as the door closed upon them, and, not restrained .by his uncle's pres- ence, Veron held me for an instant to his heart, and, gazing fondly at me, declared I had grown thin, and looked wan! His own sunburnt cheeks told no tale of alarming weak- ness, and his bright and cheery voice spoke of hope and happiness.   176       BROCKLEY MOOR. He glanced around my humble sitting-room, fixing his eyes intently upon my mother's portrait, and taking in the simple appliances of my home. I made the tea, which he re- ceived from my hands, and we were jealous of the speeding hours as they carried us on toward midnight and separation. "We part for the last time," he whispered to me, "I have remembered well my promise;" and he produced the license which would authorize all that he proposed for the morrow. He declined to speak of his father's conduct, and declared there should be no room for further discussion. He had made all his arrangements to put the matter beyond recall, before he encountered the earl. His mother would remain at Eagle's Cliff to receive us the following evening; his future movements would altogether depend upon the earl's attitude. Mr. Rivers, who remained with us to the close of this memqrable evening, approved his nephew's intentions; and after hours, blissful in their passage, blissful in their mem- ory, we parted to meet again at an early hour the following morning before the altar of our village church, where my destiny should be settled forever. Life would be changed to-morrow, I said to myself as I looked out upon the placid scene. The moonlight danced upon the rippling waves as they washed the rocky shore. The hum of the busy hamlet was hushed; no rude sounds broke the silence of that bright night. I could almost hear the pulsations of my own heart, after the sound of the fast- receding wheels was lost; and midnight, chiming from the parish tower, admonished me to seek repose, whether I found sleep or not. I   THE WEDDING.         t CHAPTER XLII. THE WEDDING. THE bridal morning dawned, but not gloriously. The promise of the midnight hour had not been fulfilled, and the day was oppressive and cloudy. As the hours advanced it did not brighten; the atmosphere was heavy as a heart charged with trouble. Now and then a distant rumble of thunder was heard in the sultry air, and a few large drops of rain were falling as I entered the coach with Mr. Rivers, who was to escort me to the church, and would give me away. Like one in a dream I went on. At the door of the vestry we alighted, where Veron, bright and radiant, was waiting for me. He pressed my hand'with mute delight, and still upon Mr. Rivers's arm I entered the chtrch, which was well filled with my humble friends, who, mysteriously enough, had learned what was to take place there. The good old vicar was to unite us, anid his kind voice trembled as he addressed the congregation in those well-known words, which conclude with that dreadful invitation to "now speak, or else, hereafter, forever hold his peace." Up to that moment I had been in a hazy and dreamy state of being; but, as he uttered those words with peculiar emphasis, I started with such a shiver that Veron involuntary drew near- er to me. Meanwhile the darkness deepened, the few large drops had become a pelting storm of rain and hail, almost drowning the good man's exhortation. I recalled in an in- stant the dreadful threats of the earl, and the dark warnings of Elric, and I held my breath while the vicar paused-ol, so long!-perhaps to allow the fury of the elements to sub- side a little ere he turned to us. No human voice had entered its protest-that dreadful word which the earl had   178   I   BROCKLEY MOOR. promised was unuttered. With a loving voice, ringing and tremulous with the tenderness of his heart, the vicar read through the whole of the solemn charge to us, who knew no " impediment," and to the secret of whose hearts there was nothing to hide, and we too were silent before him. In another instant a deafening crash, a roar of the tempest, simultaneous with the flash of lightning, sent dismay and terror to every heart, to be intensified by the cry that the church was on fire; the spire had been struck, and the violence of flame and wind was causing the bell to toll the knell of all that was bright in life. Amid the con- fusion and terror that prevailed within, there came a cry from without, more agonizing than the shouts of the panic- stricken crowd within. I clung to Mr. Rivers, as I com- prehended too well the burden of woe, that wail of despair, for, as I turned to escape, Lord Trevor fell senseless in the aisle, as he gasped, "L Too late!-my God! too late!" In the next moment I was dragged from the burning building by a strong arm. I did not need to look in his despairing face to know it was Elric. "Faithless, disobedient child!" he exclaimed. "Had I ever deceived you, that you should leave me thus, and bring such sorrow upon yourself? Merciful Heavens! am I too late? ' Had I turned to stone? His words made no impression upon me.  I had but one thought-was Veron rescued from flame and death? From stupor I went to frenzy, and in tearless agony I begged my protector to seek Veron, and to tell me that he was safe.  No compassion seemed left in Elric's heart. He hurried me through the driving storm in almost evening darkness, although it was scarcely past noonday. I heeded not the flashing lightning, nor the fearful explosions that followed.   THlE WEDDING.        179 At the church-yard gate he thrust me not into that stately coach-and-four which was waiting to carry us to Eagle's Cliff, but into an equipage that fast rushed from the tragic scene. "Oh! tell me-deal no more in mysteries-Elric, why may not this ceremony go on? Why must I not wait for one from whom, in one minute more, no man could have sundered me?" "A curse be on him! It is on him, and all he touches! Fit offspring of a guilty sire! May Heaven's bolt have pinned them both to yonder floor! Listen, infatuated girl -nay, there shall be no more mysteries. Do you remem- ber your mother's destroyer? Then curse, in your pure soul if you can curse, the Earl of Durreigh! Would you breathe nuptial vows to his son? Would you wed your-" "Nay, never say that word," I. interrupted, wildly, as I realized the fearful truth. -How blind I had been, how dull my infatuated vision had become-with the key I had held, with my mother's sorrowful history ever ringing in my ears! Ah! I could remember now so well that bright boy at the castle-gates, and recall in his young face the lineaments of the stricken Sidney. I did not faint. I would have given worlds to weep. Why had the thunder-bolt spared me, and, perhaps-oh, that I could even now be sure that it had spared him! But why? To realize depths of unimaginable anguish and shame! For some-for most sufferers-there is hope; for me there seemed none in this life. I had been singled from women to be cursed above all others of whom I had ever heard. Never-never again must a thought or a regret or a sigh go to him with whom but a few minutes before I had stood at the altar. An eternity seemed crowded in the minutes-ten at the utmost since we knelt before God's   180      3BROKLEY MOOR. priest-now a gulf wider than deatlh-deep as infinity--lay between us. Perhaps Elric understood something of the madness that was seizing me, for his manner suddenly changed. He clasped me in his arms, and lavished every tenderness upon me. He called me the pet names of childhood; he caressed my hand and stroked my burning head. He promised me a shelter in his arms, and a protector in his love. I should call him father, or uncle, and I should be his child, and we should go far from these wretched haunts. His words fell upon a deadened mind and a callous heart. The fountain of tears had been checked, and the spirit of love had gone with it. I have a dim recollection of being carried to my room, and of Mr. Rivers's speedy arrival; but of the weeks and months that followed I have no recollection. I think that reason left me. By degrees I became conscious of existence, and a slowly-returning in- terest in the things of life. My faithful friends have never alluded to those weeks that intervened between that fatal wedding-day and my gradual resumption of duties. It was long before a looking-glass was to be found in my rooms, and when at length I obtained one I thought I saw before me the figure of my mother as she lay coffined in our High- land cot. My hair was as white as though fourscore win- ters had frosted it; and I was scarcely twenty-two. CHAPTER    XLIII. THE RECTORY. IT was to the rectory I had been taken during that in- terval of clouded reason; and it was the tender ministry of Mr. Rivers and his daughter that did more than the   THE RECTOIZY.        181s medical wisdom that was sent to my bedside to bring body and mind to a healthful tone. Indeed, it was hard to be grateful to Him "who doeth all things well," that with health of body came the memory of unutterable woe. Oh I that it had pleased God to take me from it all, was the burden of every thought. Why must I live, blighted and blighting? There is nothing but a sunless future for me. I shrank from the thought that nearly a half-century still. remained of my allotted time. I had a robust frame and a vigorous constitution, and might journey on to fourscore years before I should be at rest; and he-where was he? Had he quaffed the bitter cup to its dregs, or had he never looked upon the earth and sky since that day-that darkest of all days? I had never asked, and his name had never' been mentioned. Mr. Rivers--how easily I learned to call him uncle!-and my cousin Mary were in mourning still, but I had never dared to inquire why it was worn so long. One day, however, while arranging my disordered desk, so long unused, I discovered a letter addressed to me. It evidently had been sent while I was in no condition to ap- preciate its contents, and I had tossed it aside with other matter. The perusal of that letter momentarily revived the men- tal weakness from which I was just recovering, but the in- dignation that it aroused was a perfect antidote to any mental malady. It was dated at Durrcigh Castle, and bore the signature of the earl himself. 'Its contents, as follows, are a strong contrast to the previous communication from my mother, already transcribed: ' Vain, reckless girl! I cannot address you with an ordinary title of respect, though I feel bound to say a few words to you. That you have brought the keenest sorrow   182       BROGKLEY MOOR. upon the family of one, over whom your toils have been successfully thrown, you may not be more ready to be- lieve than you were the prediction that such would be the inevitable result of your persevering disregard of my warn- ings. I can only say that the perfect overthrow of your own ambitious purposes is the only satisfaction to be drawn from the contemplation of the wretched events which have lately furnished interesting items to public prints and gos- sip-venders! You chose to defy me, and you suffer for your defiance. Hitherto, at least, you were regarded as the offspring of honest parents, but in your great desire for a noble name, you have publicly proclaimed that you are entitled to bear no honorable title. I have only to add, since I have been forced to acknowledge you publicly, the offspring of a mis- guided passion, I do not wish the world to say that I refuse you a living; and here I would add, that those means of living would have been always devoted to, you, had not your mother, in a moment of proud rebellion, scorned my care of you and committed you to her low relations. There- fore, you will hereafter regularly receive four hundred pounds per annum, which I think is abundant to supply every reasonable want. At my death this shall be secured to you as an annuity. You need not think with hereditary pride that it is necessary to resent this attempt to satisfy my feelings, for I believe that the law would accord you even a greater tax upon my fortunes. It may please you to know that your lover-brother has left his home and country, and I suppose forsworn his family. "It is the general impression that his heart is broken. Be that so-his constancy may delight you! "Perhaps that vagabond uncle, whose protection was so prompt, will sympathize with you and even swear that, when Edward Trenham (?) affected to marry Agnes Alwyn,   A VISIT TO THE CASTLE.       183 he penetrated the artist's disguise, but remember in all that uncle's communications his love of the truth is as well known as his piratical expeditions on the high-seas I "In conclusion, I would suggest that perfect humility should mark your intercourse with the world, and that there is but little occasion for pride, when you remember the circumstances under which you are the daughter of the "EARL OP DURREIGiH." Merciful Heavens! was I his child? Was it to him I owed this sorrowful gift of existence? Was I allied in blood-to the human heart that could inflict such injustice and cruelty? Ay! little did he imagine that I was armed with the instruments of torture, and with a double wrong to revenge. I could bring upon his proud escutcheon the shame to which he had committed his injured wife and child! CHAPTER XLIV. A VISIT TO THE CASTLE. TUE bitterness of death had entered my soul since the finding of that unnatural letter. Day by day the desire to brave the earl and assert my unacknowleged claims grew stronger. The chapter of iniquity had become fearfully long. My mother's nameless, grave among the Highland hills was not the least of the wrongs that were wrestling within me for something like revenge. The climax of cruelty and injustice, however, was reached in the fling It his broken-hearted son, whose weary exile might at least have been softened in its harshness by the pity, if not the sympathy, of the paternal heart. But no! that heart knew naught of pity, nor sympathy, nor yet manliness!   184      JBROCKLEY MO0OR. He could not deceive himself with the miserable inventions that had half beguiled my mother, and with which he would have influenced me had he been able. He did not know how much of his own hard, iron nature he had transmitted to his only daughter, nor how little veneration his hoary head inspired. Therefore it was, with a determination as invincible as his own, that I resolved to visit him, and at last let him know that I was aware of my birthright and claim to an honorable name. I was too well known at the castle to be denied admis- sion when I said I had business with the earl, and, as upon a previous occasion, I was ushered at once into his pres- ence. I avoided all familiarities of address and went immedi- ately to my subject. "I have called, my lord, to answer your letter in person." "It was quite unnecessary. I intended to send .my solicitor to you this very day," and he nervously handled some trifles upon the study-table. "Your solicitor, my lord? I have no business with him; he cannot give me my rights!" "Pray, will you tell me what are your rights?" "Ay, my lord, that is not speedily done. Yet, hard as that task would be, they are more quickly told than the wrongs, which cannot be numbered. I have sought you with no vain threats or idle purposes. I have papers in my possession that vindicate my mother's name, that con- fer an honorable claim to your own upon me, and I am now prepared to demand justice to my mother, while I proclaim the legality of my own inheritance. I seek justice, and not charity, that satisfies itself with a paltry four hundred pounds a year. Whether or not you acknowledge the jus- tice of these claims, the fact remains the same. -Happily,   A VISIT TO THE CASTLE.       185 I am in a land where I can have full satisfaction. That I am your own child, born in lawful wedlock, that you were married to my mother years before you brought another unhappy woman to disgrace, and placed her here where my mother should have presided, I have abundant evidence. More than a few witnesses are ready to confirm the authen- ticity of my papers, and identify you as the titled adven- turer who stole in disguise to an honest home, and capti- vated an unresisting victim!" "Agnes, I will hear no more of this," he replied, sud- denly rising and striding the room as he muttered: "This has, been the result of your acquaintance with that lawless fellow who, forsooth, had he dared, would have asserted similar claims upon my father's forbearance. Do not tempt me to forget you are a woman, and order you from my presence. Heaven knows I have bitterly enough regretted my youthful escapade with the pretty daughter of a York- shire farmer, and, for that matter, paid dearly enough for it too. I don't intend, however, to have the offspring of such follies brave and harass me with vague threats and undefined consequences." "You will find, my lord, that my threats are not vague, and you may learn that the consequences are very clearly defined. Let me tell you I possess much of the correspond- ence between my mother and yourself. Your marriage certificate is in my possession. This marriage is duly re- corded in the parish register; the good man, who igno- rantly united you, is still living; and other witnesses are only waiting my summons to identify you as the adventu- rous artist. You have acknowledged yourself to be my father-and these facts will legalize the title. Are they vague, my lord, and is the consequence very uncertain and undefined?" His check grew pallid, and he could not restrain the   1iou      I BUc iL'Y MOOR. shiver that shook his strong frame. He seated himself again, and silently bowed his head, as once before I had witnessed in that interview at the rectory. I saw those silver locks fall again over the trembling fingers. May God forgive me, if my heart was too relentless, as I went on: "Recall one bright morning, wellnigh a score of years ago. Look again upon that woman, sinking from hunger and exposure outside your castle-gate, to which the strong purposes of her heart had borne her weary frame. She sought to accomplish that to which I now am sworn. May God strengthen me to avenge her-my mother-your wife -prostrate and fainting at the road-side! Her young child -ay! your child, with blisters on her tender feet, and her slight frame overpowered with fatigue, and a yearning to rest, lay beside her on the soft, grateful earth! "Ah, it seems so short a while, and yet so like eternity since that day! A lady came-she who supposed she was the honest mistress of these noble halls and lands. She, poor thing, with her fair, jeweled hand, stooped to stroke the aching brow of her lord's true wife! Ah, little dreamed she of the truth; little heeded she that the fair boy, whose kindly hands brought the reviving draught to the weary pil- grim, was born to a heritage of dishonor, and such sorrow as the sun does not often shine upon! "Oh! how plainly I recall him now as he then stood in his proud, childish independence! How little we, that is he and I, could foresee the mysterious intermingling of life's currents, which would finally shipwreck us both on the treacherous rocks over which our father's hand was even then impelling us! Nay, my lord, I know you would not revive the memory of those days, but I must not spare you! You recall, perhaps, more vividly that later encounter on the public way-side-the almost dying mother and the weep- ing little one! The child you took in your arms, and, as   A VISIT TO THE CASTLE.      187 though there was the first throe of repentance, you begged to have that child left with you. You would have taken that one sunbeam of life, from a heart which had no other light! Do you remember that wasted hand, held before your averted eyes, so that you were forced to see how thin that finger had become, upon which you had, with fervent vows, once put the golden symbol of eternal love? Have you forgotten those parting words: 'I do not curse you, Edward, for Heaven's judgment will follow you and yours!' Prophetic words! How bitterly fulfilled. The sins of the father visited upon the children! And so my mother turned her face from you forever, with her mission unaccom- plished, and her vengeance unfulfilled. She repented be- cause of the woman whom you had injured more than herself. She turned back, with her secret in her heart, knowing she was pure and honest, and that you could not deprive her child of rights that were born with it. She had compassion for the innocent mother and boy, and, to save them the anguish that was piercing her own soul, she went back with her broken heart, she took up. her burden of sorrow, and her child, worse than fatherless, to lie down shortly in that Scottish resting-place beside the boys who had been there housed before her!"A Still no response-one deep and bitter groan, and the head bowed lower still. "But, Lord Trenor, am spared. My heart is too hard to break, and my spirit too strong to quail, and, while that heart beats and the spirit of life remains, I am a living pro- test against the iniquity which casts reproach upon my mother in her angelic purity, and denies her child the heri- tage of a lawful name. I am not to be daunted by threats, nor beguiled by smooth promises. I ask respectfully, but firmly, for a final response. Will you acknowledge your marriage with my mother and my own legitimacy?"   188       BROCGLEIY MOOR. I paused and repeated my request. A deeper groan escaped from his bursting heart, and he raised his head. He fixed his wild and bloodshot eyes upon me, but his lips seemed to have no power of utterance. After a strug- gle, which seemed to half rend soul and body, he hissed, rather than asked, "Agnes, did you ever love your-your brother?" Mock me not, Lord Trenor; it is not of him I have to speak. No! I never knew a sister's love for him!" "Oh, but it is of him we must speak. Agnes, Agnes, do you know what you ask? Do you perceive what this unveiling of the past will disclose to him, and also to his poor, sinless mother?" This quenched the rising pity, and I exclaimed in bitter- ness: "And what of my poor, sinless mother, and her disin- herited child? Were my mother's capabilities of suffering less acute, because she had so little of the sunshine which has streamed upon the fair lady of the castle? Is she to be a word of reproach, and be recalled as an erring, dishonest woman, because her husband has sinned against another? Would not the sympathies of the world be given to the so- called countess who has been lured and deceived and be- trayed, while in ignorance of facts? That same world will point its finger of scorn at the sorrowing, forsaken wife, weeping life away by -the graves of her little ones." "Spare me, spare me, Agnes!" he gasped; " let it be as you will-my punishment is greater than I can bear. It matters little what betides me now; go seek the countess -you know her rooms.' She will not dispute your claims; bid her cast from her as unholy the ring that she has worn; tell her she is not a wife! And Veron too-you will find them both ready to believe and grant you every thing of which they have robbed you in their unconsciousness. Do with me as you will; your black banner of woe may wave   A VISIT TO THE CASTLE.       189 over my home, as it has wrapped my heart for many a year. Only leave me now, and, when I can look at the terrible fact more clearly in its length and breadth, I will consum- mate the reparation. Leave me-why linger now?" Why did I linger in my hour of triumph? What  strange emotions were contending in my heart? Why could I not rejoice that the hour of retribution had come, and, with a single breath, I could avenge my mother's ? wrongs and redress my own? Why paused I in his grim presence, or lingered before the eyes in which I was odious? Where were that hard heart and that strong spirit of which I had just boasted? Would the heart soften, and the spirit yield, after all? Should my mission, too, be in vain ;-and would I turn from that castle, in which there seemed to be a magic spell, as my mother had done in weakness, and, perchance, like her to die broken-hearted? Was it the still, small voice of an angel, or the bland breathings of a demon that whispered, "Blessed are the merciful! Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord!" There we stood, such a picture as no artist has ever yet painted-the earl with a death-like pallor on his face, which was always ashy in its hue; his snow-white locks were disordered, and the firmness with which his out- stretched hand pointed me to the door was not justified in his sorrowful countenance, nor his eye more dim with tears than age. And Hbefore him, pride had left me, and I knew that the flush of passion had faded from my cheek, and that my own prematurely gray curls were thrown from a brow no less sorrowful than the earl's. My hands were clasped, and I seemed riveted to the place. There was one instant's bitter struggle, and in my moment of greatest triumph I threw my arms toward him, and cried in an agony of despair, "Father!-father!" It was enough! The wrongs of   190       BROCKLEY MOOR. years were avenged! The slights of a lifetime seemed compensated, as he pressed me again and again to his breast; amid tears of remorse and sobs of repentance, he called me his daughter, his Agnes, his beloved! It was thus I invoked my mother's image from the past, and mingled my tears with his, as my head was held to his remorseful breast, and for the first time a father's arm was around me. And here, perhaps, the curtain should fall upon the drama of a life so little in harmony with the bright fictions that delight the young imagination, or the pathetic words of a biography, which, if not completed in happiness and sunshine at the altar, should close at an early grave, over which the bright flowers of spring are teaching their les- sons of immortality, or the falling leaf and wintry wind are bidding the bereaved not to sorrow as those without hope. And there are those, too, who will exclaim: " Spiritless and vain boaster! The vaunted hardness of your heart was only like the unyielding wax in winter, which melts and softens at the approach of sunshine and warmth. The boasted strength of spirit was only in its inexperience-so soon to quail and yield. An old man's sorrow and belated repentance were like the waters of Lethe to your wrongs, and you forgot all your proud threats and high-sounding vows; even your mother's simple tomb, and the nameless stone which marked that sacred place of rest, were con- signed to oblivion!" To such, I make no defense, accepting their sarcasm; only reminding them that mercy is better than judgment. To others, who, recognizing the woman's heart, trace the divine inspiration of mercy and forgiveness, I may yet address some future lines as we resume the-broken threads of my narrative, and renew briefly our intercourse with some of our early friends.   PART II. CHAPTER I. A WRECK. FIvE years later, and the changes in life's kaleidoscope had brought me to the shores of the blue Mediterranean.' It was January, although one scarcely knew it. Balmy breezes came gently from the sea, bearing the sweet odors of orange-groves and perennial blossoms. The sun shone brightly upon the waves, and there was only that certain 'look of verdure which one feels in the wintry landscape of those regions, that bluish gray of the olive-trees, with the brown fields and dim-colored lawns, to dispel the illusion of an early summer-day on our own bright southern coast. "Agnes, how long is it since we left England?" was asked in querulous tones. "Not much over two years," I replied. "Are we never going home?" in a still more whining voice. "Whenever you wish." "You answer so tartly!" in still less manly tones. "Not tartly, surely, father; I had no such thought." "Why do you always defend your manner? It is very well to say you don't mean this, and intend that, when it is very evident you will. never forgive me. I know it is very   192       BROCKLEY MOOR. tiresome to be following me everywhere, as if I were an imbecile. I tell you every day I don't want to be coddled up in this fashion, and go hither and thither at the whim of every old doctor we meet. Let me once get rid of this gout, and I will be my own master." "Nay, father, you are your own master. Tell me what. you wish, and where you would go, and no one shall inter- fere." I sat down beside him and sought his reluctant hand. "I do not wish to be here, that is all. You brought me here just to make me think of that horrible sea-shore where I was shipwrecked so many years ago. You know I hate the sea. That eternal splashing of the waves distracts me! It makes me shiver with cold and fear," and he shud- dered as he said this. I covered him carefully, and closed the window. "Do not shut out the little warmth there is," he whim- pered. I opened the window, and drew his couch where the sun streamed upon him. That made him complain that his head and eyes ached, and his sofa must be wheeled from the light, and, before his mind reverted to a change of scene, his eyelids were closed, and he was slumbering in blissful unconsciousness. Who would have recognized, in that decrepit, peevish, and restless old man, the once proud and stately Earl of Durreigh? Who would e'er have recalled, in those childish whimpers, th6 rich tones of that voice which captivated the sweet maiden at Brockley Moor? That once dark flashing eye was often dim with tears, which a brave woman would have forced back; and the heart which of yore beat in scorn- ful defiance of divine and human law, now fluttered in childlike terror and constant dread of some unknown calamity. But, as the powers of body and mind had given   IN  ET ROSPECT.        193 way, the reproaches of conscience had grown strong, and lashed the bruised spirit with the remorseless scourge of a thousand furies. He dreamed constantly, and talked aloud while dreaming. Frequently he was haunted by the terrors of the shipwreck, in which a body had been saved, but, God grant him still repentance, a soul had been risked! How much mental suffering he had endured before his iron frame yielded, no one but God and himself ever knew, for it was not until about two years after his recognition of me, in that memorable interview, that a stroke of paralysis dis- abled him, and left an arm and one entire side thoroughly useless. To the last he put away the idea that so plebeian a malady had crippled him, and was always speaking of the dreadful attack of gout from which he was suffering. It mattered very little whether he was indulged or not in his various fancies. He was equally dissatisfied when his whims were noticed or crossed. With the perversity of such sufferers (sufferers, indeed, to be commiserated and prayed for), he was never easy, nay, often infuriated, if I was out of sight; yet all the apparent satisfaction my pres- ence gave him may be gathered from the conversation I have narrated. And such was the price of my birthright. CHAPTER II. IN RETROSPECT. How long that shadowy vista of months and seasons which leads us back to the days of my adoption in the cas- tle! How difficult the task of domestication had been, and with what reluctance the heart followed the lips, as I called the master of those wide domains father! The uprooting of old ties, the farewell visit to the moorland 9   194       BROOKLEY MOO R. house, the transport of my few treasures of that old home; the extraordinary chain of circumstances which brought my mother's portrait within the castle-walls, and gave it a place of sacred privacy in my own dressing-room, where my father was never supposed to go, and where the lady of the castle could take no offense, had she ventured to enter, and draw aside the curtain which generally hid the beautiful face-all these things went on, like the unfold- ing of some wondrous tale of romance, and,. before twelve months had rolled away into the past, all the incidents and changes of life before that period seemed like the unreali- ties of a dream. For a few weeks at first the ebb and flow of the tide of feeling were not very regular, and I fancy that the earl, like myself, was not quite comfortable under the changed state of things. I did not quite reconcile myself to the new address which, inconsistently enough, and contrary to my own wishes, the earl had ordered should be mine; but, I had to respond when the "Lady Agnes" was called, and accepted the dignity as a palliative to the hidden remorse which I knew was sapping my father's very springs of life. The castle was called my home, but I seemed for a long time to have no mission there, and it was not difficult for me to obtain frequent permission to visit my uncle Rivers. It was like the return of Noah's dove to the shelter of the ark, when I found myself under that beloved roof, and, in the thousand little ministries of love, training my young cousin to take as speedily as possible the direction of her father's household. Mr. Rivers gradually recovered his healthy tone of mind and body, although it was very evi- dent that life would never be other than a chastened exist- ence for him. Still he met it bravely, performed cheerfully its duties, and proclaimed, in a practice more powerful than   THE LADY OFP THE CASTLE.      195 his pulpit-teaching, the truth and force of the Christianity of which he was a preacher. There was no restraint nor artificial dignity assumed in my relations with him and my cousin: to one I was simply "Agnes," or "My dear niece;" to the other, "Cousin Ag- gie." How much I am indebted to that good man, very few will ever know. I sometimes longed to confide, my secrets to him, but happily I never yielded to the selfish temptation, for it could have done me no good; and I felt it were unjust to impose upon another the responsibility of such a confidence, and with no good to be accomplished. Under his flattering encouragement I found great resource in the use of the pen, and it was thus I began to forget the extraordinary experiences of my own life, in imagi- nation and fancies over the combinations of human dcs- tiny and the strange weavings of the threads of personal history; My own biography, until in these declining years of life, seemed too sacred a thing to commit to the judg- ment and keeping of an indifferent, incredulous world. Again and again, too, my uncle pressed upon me the consideration of my duties to the earl. I was thoroughly convinced that I had such obligations, from which his own cruel neglect for many years did not absolve me. CHAPTER    III. THE LADY OF THE CASTLE. I HAVE said very little of the "lady of the castle," as she was called by the humble people for miles around, and I should fail, indeed, in recalling those "who have gone before," did I not invoke a blessing on her memory. In her appearance, she was in most respects the very   196       BROCKLEY MOOR. opposite of the earl's young love. My mother, according to her portrait, was a brunette, with eyes of no definable shade-some said they were hazel, others gray, while Aunt Rachel remembered them as dark blue. But, as they looked down upon me in their pictured softness, they were of that indescribable color which no artist, had he not been a lover as well, could have ever combined upon his palette. Her hair was like that of "Milton's Eve," in its hyacinth blackness. The fair vision that chased tlis form of beauty from my father's heart was delicate in complexion, the wavy locks-upon her marble brow were golden, and her eye as blue as the summer sky when it peeps between the drifting clouds. She was tall and stately in form, graceful in her movements, with a hand so white and fair that it seemed it might melt away in a rough grasp. The most beautiful blush would mount to her cheek, leaving a pink shadow there. Her voice was soft arnd tender-my mother's had been a rich contralto, as I can even now re- call the low, melodious tones. I do not think that her life with my father had been very happy. Doubtless the first few years were brightened by the earl's attention; but there was a thorn rankling in his flesh, which made him a restless and uncomfortable companion, and there was that conscious- ness of a guilty secret, and an unutterable wrong to that high-born woman whom he had so grossly deceived, which could not but have imbittered their intercourse. This very secret and consciousness insensibly made him withdraw a great deal from society generally, and his days, for many a year, had been mostly spent in his library, which, with its dark wainscot and heavy-timbered roof, was the least cheerful room in the castle. When the lines of life between those occupying such relations once begin to diverge, they must be greatly warped from their natural direction if ever they are made   THE LADY OF THE CASTL E.       1 to meet again. So it was with the earl and the Countess. However or with whichever of them began that divergence, she was none the less conscious that every year found her farther and farther away in confidence and sympathy, per- force in affection, from my father; and, when those terrible revelations at Brockley Moor startled the community, she was perhaps better prepared for such a social tornado than might have been supposed. A thousand things were ex- plained, which had hitherto been mysteries to her. She could recall a multitude of incidents of which the world was, ignorant, a thousand inexplicable agitations and half-sup- pressed exclamations. Those mysterious letters, so quickly read and as quickly destroyed, of whose contents she had never been told; and then, too, that almost forgotten scene by the way-side at the castle-gate; the ill-concealed dismay of the earl when she and her boy related the simple story of the poor woman and her beautiful child; his anxiety to know if the woman had told her any thing, or asked for anybody; his own attempt to allude carelessly to the event, and to say, with a smile, which even then seemed grim to her, that he had met the poor creatures on the road, and had helped them on their way-these and other recollections arose like ghosts before her, as in the solitude of Eagle's Cliff, where she had been awaiting the return of her son-with a daughter, too-the terrified servants re- turned with .the tidings that wellnigh broke her heart, as they pictured the comfortless, sorrowful, broken-hearted Sidney, and the conscience-stricken earl. Even then she scarcely knew a tithe of the truth; and, though prostrated to the earth, by the knowledge of the infidelity of him to whom she had pledged her own pure virgin love, her noble soul was roused to bitter indignation in recalling his cruel wrong to another woman, and his unnatural neglect of a motherless, friendless girl, to whom she already extended   198       BROCKLEY MOOR her arms, and whom she yearned to shelter with maternal love in this dark hour of trial. Heaven bless the memory of that noble soul! Also she had never heard of the first- born and his three bright brothers, who were resting be- side their mother, with Scotland's wild heather blooming upon their neglected graves. She knew not a tale she was yet to hear, which should strip the artist-suitor of his mask, and bring to her ear the vows once uttered before God's altar, riveting a union which the flimsy disguise of a name could not hide from God and man. As soon as her excitement of mind had subsided some- what, she returned to the castle, half determined there to take leave of her noble deceiver and quietly return to the protection of her brother, who was himself quite equal in aristocratic pretension to the earl, and who was threaten- ing to visit condign punishment upon his brother-in-law, already sufficiently disgraced, and suffering the keenest pangs of remorse and self-reproach for his mad follies. It so happened that her return to the castle was almost simultaneous with my own unasked visit to the earl. The result of my interview was long ago told, except in relation to the lady herself. When it became known that the earl had openly avowed my relationship, and, moreover, that Castle Durreigh was to be my home, a great modification took place in the lady's views as to her duties. She hoped she saw in this (know- ing nothing of the secret interview) an indication of repent- ance on the part of the earl, and, longing to do what she could to atone for the past, she received me with open arms and true motherly regard. She called me daughter, and bade me address her as though she really were my mother. Before many weeks elapsed, we thoroughly knew and loved each other. In the depths of my heart I must admit there struggled a feeling sometimes not altogether   THE LORD OF THE CLASTLE.      19 worthy, and I occasionally detected in my companion what my suspicious heart was prone to interpret as a kindred feeling. However, this I can truly say, not a word ever passed between us which we should either of us wish to recall; while, on the contrary, we were bound together by the fact of being sufferers in a common wrong-blighted by the same influence,and the sunshine of life shaded from us both by the same hand. Hidden in the deep of each soul, there was an image-a form beloved, of which we never spoke, but perhaps was never absent from the tloughts of either of us. The mystery of utter silence we could neither of us penetrate, and our mute conjectures were often read in each other's quiet, thoughtful eyes, or the eloquent sigh, which seemed to bring relief to the surcharged heart. CHAPTER    IV. THE LORD OF THE CASTLE. IT would be difficult to define precisely the relations between the earl and myself.' There was frequently an attempt, at the paternal manner, which was not always a success. At times he was cold, even to repulsion; at other moments the better and kindlier feelings mastered his re- serve, and I would get glimpses of a nature overlaid, it is true, with moroseness, suspicion, and secretiveness of many years' growth, yet in itself genial, loving, and fascinating. Such glimpses, however, were but flashes, and there seemed  no magnetism to excite them.- Occasionally I ventured to enter his library upon some pretext which did not seem very transparent.- He always received me courteously, and even kindly aided me to look at the book, or map, or refer- cnce, that ostensibly brought me within his sanctum. He   200       B ROCOLEY MOOR. never sat down, however, while I was there, and never gave me the least encouragement to prolong my stay, until by a perfect coup d'etat I fairly established a right to enter the exclusive retreat. One morning I went with a brave heart and knocked at the door, which was not quite closed. I tapped several times, and, receiving no response, I concluded he was not in the room, and to be satisfied of this I pushed the door slightly, almost immediately repenting of my boldness, for there was my father, beside the worn old table, and in his well-used chair; his head bowed in his hands, and his whole attitude bespeaking great mental or physical suffer- ing. For a moment I was tempted to retreat, but a yearn- ing toward my unhappy parent took possession of me, and I quickly determined to face the consequences, and I walked toward him. I was at his side before he recognized the intrusion. He started and looked wildly at me. "Pardon me, my father, if I intrude." He rose to his feet, with an expression of countenance that wopld have chilled a less ardent desire to serve him; even the aectic-like atmosphere of the room itself seemed to congeal the very power of speech. "I have come, my father, to ask a very-very great favor." He folded his arms, but gave no sign of encouragement. My voice began to fail, but I made one effort more, and said: "Father, will you ride with me this morning? The weather is warm, and I long for a gallop. Mamma" (for so I now called the countess) " tells me you-you love to ride and-"Oh, weak and wavering heart! I broke down, and I believe tears even came to my eyes, as I had a very dim vision of the earl, as he approached me, and I could just see that a sickly smile played over his grim face.   THE LORD OF THE CAS TLE;    \ 201 "O father, father, let\ me be a child indeed!" and I wept in earnest. "I long to comfort you. I yearn to caress you. I pray that you will let me serve you-be more with you, and draw you from this cold and dreary room to the sunshine and warmth of life and loving hearts." He answered not, but, as he folded me close and closer to his heart, his body was convulsed with sighs, which were more like suppressed sobs. "Agnes! daughter! child!" he at length murmured. "Why has such an angel been given to me? Is it in your heart to forget the terrible past? Alas! alas f my child, the secret that is consuming me rests so lightly upon your innocent spirit, that you know nothing of its weight. Yet, of us all, you are to be envied-the wrongecd, the disinher- ited, the robbed! Ay! I would change with you! And yet I am not quite so lost as to wish this torture of hell itself, which is racking my body, and destroying my soul, could be imparted to you." "Nay, my father, it is wrong to allow you to speak thus. You will never be happy wile you recall the past -believe." "Happy! happy!" he interrupted. "Child, do not mpck me. "Are the lost souls happy, upon whom the never-dying worm is preying, or the ceaseless fire consum- ing? Don't make a jest of me, and wish me hap2piness. Pray only that despair and the remembrance of foul deeds, never to be recalled, drive me not to madness. Oh! I dare not tell you how often the desire and temptation come to me, to end it all-only there is a cowardly shrinking from that terrible uncertainty, that unknown future, when life's little chapter here is closed." "My father, do you believe God's word?" "Ay, this I believe, that the way of the transgressor   202       BROCKLEY MOOR. is hard,' and 'the soul that sinneth it shall die,' not a literal, peaceful death, such as you will have-that your mother had-but a daily, remorseless, and lingering death of soul as well as body, with all the faculties of suffering sharp- ened, and the powers of endurance doubled. I have been dying this death ever since I took you in my arms, ten-- twenty-thirty-I can no longer count those years of lingering torture-and would it not be mercy to me-but no, I will not talk thus to you, in your purity, your inno- cence, your faith, which has been tried by the crimes of others only." "Dear father, I am neither pure nor sinless in His sight, to whom the heavens are not pure, and whose angels are charged with folly; and whatever faith I have-and surely I had no common .trials to test it-is on the 'Rock of Ages founded.' That voice from Calvary is for just such sinners as you are. Christ does not call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. It is to the weary and heavy- laden that the promise of rest and comfort is given. They that are whole do not need a physician." He had seated himself again, and drew me close to him, and whispered: "Go on, my child; I am listening." And I repeated promise upon promise of mercy and forgiveness. I quoted the repentance of David, and God's absolution of his crime. I reminded him of the mercy which came at the last hour to the penitent on the cross; and I begged him to carry his own troubles and remorseful anguish to that cross; there was no possibility of any one being cast out, who knelt there in broken-hearted penitence. He seemed to grow calm and resigned for a while, when the terrible past seemed once more to be mirrored before him, and he exclaimed: "No man's history is like mine, no man's sin has equaled mine, and, though God may forgive, how can the consequences be changed?"Ah! ye thought-   THE LORD OF THE CASTLE.       203 less and reckless sinners, could you realize the conse- quences, when your passions and follies are your masters, how many an impious deed would be stayed from com- mittal, how many a broken-heart saved! "Tell me," my father cried, "what can bring back my dead? what can recall that broken heart, once so ready to worship and reverence this wretched idol of clay? What can revive joy, or even peace of mind, to my exiled boy? What can restore the sweet, devoted trust of another heart, that even now knows. but little of the wrong which is bound, sooner or later, to crush it too? And you, blighted in your beautiful youth-sacrificing your right, and name, and honest lineage, to save others from the heritage of shame, which is rightfully theirs, not yours! I do repent, bitterly and in the dust of humiliation. I can curse the hour that saved a life, only to be prostituted to unholy service; I can execrate the brave arms that res- cued me from a grave of comparative innocence. I deplore the infatuation that led me to that altar at White Cliff, in lying guise, to. utter vows which were soon forgotten, and which even then I supposed had no binding force. And so on, to the bitter end. I begin with sorrowing that I ever had existence, and to repent of every step I have taken on the thorny way, but of that-I cannot forget, I cannot change the fatal results; I cannot, by the most ab- ject repentance, give life to those I have all but murdered, or joy to those my follies have made miserable. Will God send forgetfulness to me and mine, or will He grant me the exquisite torture of memory, while I pray as fervently as did he of old, whom your Master praises--'God be merciful to me a sinner ' "Moreover, Agnes, do you ever remember, in your high-strung conscientiousness, that, so long as this secret lies between you and me, we are both of us living a vile   204      BROCKLEY MOOR. lie, and forcing others to do the same? Your brother has no right or title here-he is not the heir bf Durrcigh. He is-oh! I cannot characterize thus truthfully my honor- able, high-minded Veron! And his mother-the very Magdalene of the streets can claim as much as she. The future I could protect in her case, but I could not wipe out the shame of long years of unhallowed life. And thus I walk along, self-convicted, as an impostor, a rogue, beside whom many a poor wretch now in a prison-cell would count an honest man. Must this go on? Is this poor hand des- tined to stab two more faithful hearts? Does your religion offer me any remedy? Does the Saviour, of whom you speak to me, promise any balm to such rankling, enduring misery? Nay-nay-I have listened to sermons until they maddened me with their vague description of sorrow and sin, of which the good, unsophisticated preacher had never dreamed! I have read books which have comforted-well, such souls as yours, who did not know the anguish that can rack a despairing spirit-and they have mimicked my misery. I have read the Bible-nay, thanks to my moth- er's care and counsel, I have studied the-volume pretty thoroughly, but its promises of joy and peace were not for me; there are plenty of curses, that seem to be my own; there is an accurate painting of the rewards of iniquity; but nowhere, from its first verse to the last, do I find a shade of comfort I see God's justice in every page. Yea! and his mercy too-if prolonged life and continued prosperity be a mercy. But H-Agnes, do not turn from me; life is no boon to me-this is blasphemy, you'say; but mercy to me would be instant annihilation. I envy the dog who can die, and suffer no more; I would covet the destiny of the brute thK perishes, never to awaken to judgment, and -these lashings of memory, these upbraidings of con- science!" and he smote his breast.   TfIE LORD OF THE C STLE.     205 "My father, 'with God all things are possible,' and, if you ask in faith, He will send you peace." "Will He perform for me a miracle as wonderful as creation itself? Will he cause my life to go back, as we read He once commanded the sun in yonder skies? My child, this is a religion for you; these are hopes to gladden your wearied spirit; those .are compensations for dis- appointments, for wrongs you have suffered for others, for sacrifices you are making, and rejoiced am I that you have them. But again, I say, not to pain you, not to turn com- fort away from you, but for me this hope is not held forth; these promises have no attraction for me; a future life would be but an aggravation of this, an intensifying of the torture. If your doctrines be true, there never can be peace for a heart that has deeply sinned and profoundly wronged those it should have cherished and protected; and if there be a day of judgment, when the secrets of all hearts shall be revealed, and a man stands in naked deformity before all eyes, his accusers before him,-as well as within him, think you not, child, that it would be better never to have been born, to have perished like the beast, to have withered like the grass, than to stand condemned eternally? You are shocked-and well you may be! It is a new luxury to say these things; they have rankled and burned within me for many long years, and now I feel relieved. Let us talk no more this morning, for I have already made you ill; you tremble, my poor, unhappy child! It is my for- tune to imbitter every spring of life for those who would serve, and perchance love me, This brand, this mark of Cain is on me, and I move on like him-nay, more like Judas, a resistless agent in the terrible drama, which I would close now and forever, were it mine to-choose." I clung to him, but what could I say, in my inexperience of the human heart, and my ignorance of the godless   206  .    BROCKLEY MOOR. sophism with which every argument was met, to direct the fatal despair? I could only add, "Though your sins be as scarlet, yet shall they be whiter than snow." He smiled incredulously, and arose, saying in a manner not to be gain- said: "We will not excite ourselves further upon this subject to-day. If it is a comfort for you to pray to your God for me, it cannot harm me. Now get ready, and you shall have the gallop-you were so desirous of just now." How strange that, after such revelations of despair, unbelief, and unutterable recklessness, I could have one feeling of joy left in my own heart! Yet I went to my room with less oppression of spirit than I had experienced for a long time. And what depths of darkness I had looked upon, and what cycles of woe seemed to have been pictured before me! But I had gained a point-I had drawn him from his solitary imprisonment, and had touched a spring of human sympathy. An hour later we were cantering through the little-used bridle-paths, of the park, and he quite forgot his reserve; and, though we did not renew the conversation of the library, we were not quite silent; and I am sure there was a better feeling in his heart toward all mankind, when he stepped before the groom, who had followed us in our ride, and lifted me from the horse, almost fondly, certainly proudly, as he said to the man, "Lady Agnes is so good a horsewoman, that you may give her the Arab hunter to-morrow." So we should ride again to-morrow. That Arab hunter I had ridden be- fore, with another careful hand beside me, and the horse had learned to know its rider so well that I anticipated no greater test of my equestrian skill than I had displayed on the back of sober old black Jannet.   THE SECRET IS WHSPERED.      207 CHAPTER V. THE SECRET IS WHSPERED. NOT long after this interview, I had a pressing invita- tion from the rectory. Some of Mrs. Rivers's relatives were to visit there, and Mary felt quite incompetent to do the honors alone, and begged me to give her a week or two, or as long as her cousins remained. The consent was not quite so readily given, as usual, by the earl; -and the countess, who had seen with great joy my happy and growing influence over my father, actually demurred a little. For the first time, I was not overjoyed at the pros- pect; that is to say, regret at leaving the castle mingled in some degree with the anticipation of pleasure at the rec- tory. I have sihce seen bitter reason to regret the visit, for, had I been at home, I might have prevented an untoward circumstance, or, at least, have much modified the results. I have made no allusion to the death of my aged grand- parents, who both departed this life very shortly after Aunt Rachel. They had survived all their children, and I was their only grandchild. My grandfather had a great-niece, and my grandmother a great-nephew, who had married each other, and their only son and child survived. At the time of my grandparents' death, he was astranger to us all, had emigrated to Canada, where he had married, and was settled, and, it was said, was highly respected and pos- sessed of considerable wealth. My grandfather held his farm, which was very extensive, upon a lease which extended to the third generation, with privileges of renewal. In default of children, therefore, the leasehold naturally descended to me. The good old people had never made a will, nor troubled themselves as to   208       ].BROdKLEY MOOR. the possibility of my claim being disputed. They had wit- nessed their daughter's marriage at the White Cliff Church, and had themselves heard the bans published in lawful premonition. They had never penetrated the mystery that carried their fair daughter to a Scottish solitude, and they were too proud and happy, at what seemed her fair begin- ning of life, to question any step her husband should take. Nor did they know much more when, years after, she was laid in her distant resting-place, and the little child was brought to the moor-house, which her mother quitted as a happy bride. They dried their tears for the lost one, and centred every thought and affection upon the child, who would have been spoiled by this over-indulgence, but for the counteracting severity of Aunt Rachel's discipline. They were easily persuaded to believe that the father was a spendthrift painter, as little able as willing to main- tain his child, and thus they, too, went down to their graves deceived and unsuspecting. But my grandfather had been industrious and thrifty, while my grandmother was careful and economical in her management; so, when their earthly goods were counted, after they had gone whither no man carries any thing, it was found that, besides the title to the well-stocked farm, there were stores of household linen and other treasures, and a not insignificant sum of money stowed away in old purses, in addition to a fair investment in securities, more safe than productive, all of which had been accumulated for the darling grandchild. The farm was profitably let, and other properties handed to my guardian vicar, to be kept safely with my other small hoard. I scarcely ever thought of these possessions until I came of age, when I had to assume their care, which by no means burdened me, and, as every thing was in a convenient and compact shape, and I had no reason to make any-demands upon it, I simply   THE SECIRET IS WHSPElED.      209 devoted it to a certain charity in which I was interested at Hazle-dell. I had been a week or two at the rectory, when we were all startled by the arrival at post-haste of a servant from the castle, who brought a summons for my immediate re- turn. The countess, he said, was desperately ill, and my father beside himself with grief. Alas! poor lady, the bit- ter cup had been put roughly to her lips, and she had drained the deadly dregs. With a presage of what I was to encounters I hastened to the stricken home. I found my father pacing his accus- tomed sitting-room, with desperation in his eye, and his lips compressed in anguish. There was utter despair in his voice, as he addressed me in hollow tones: "It is come at last! We can lie no longer! Retribu- tion has not tarried. Our secret is proclaimed, and-and may God have mercy on me! another heart is broken " He wrung his hands and wept in bitter frenzy of grief. Who does not know the agony with which a strong man weeps? Each tear seems to come like a great drop of very life-blood fromr the heart. The scene was inexplicable to me, and it was some time before I could obtain any satisfactory or rational ex- planation. I sought the countess, and it was difficult to recognize her ordinarily calm and resigned features in the flushed and agitated face that lay in wild delirium on the pillow. She had been raving all day, they told me. Yet, she seemed to recognize me as I took her burning hand. "O Agnes, Agnes! you have all deceived me-so cruelly-so cruelly, for so many years! And my poor, un- happy boy!  O Edward! O Sidney! and Agnes, too! Why can we not all die?-O Father in heaven take me, take me, and Sidney too! ' Edward! let them have the lands and the money, and the title, too-only give me back   210       BROCIKLEY MOOR. my boy!" and thus with sobs and tears she raved until it tore the heart to hear her sad plaints, and to look upon the wreck of a woman who had been almost peerless I The first thing to be done was to rid the room of servants. There was one, who had grown gray in the service, and had watched the young Veron in his earliest days, to whom I said, "I am sure I can trust you to help me nurse mamma." "Ah, my young lady, this is not new to me; my poor lady has a good deal yet to learn; but you may depend upon me, and I will keep the servants at safe distance." I sought the earl again, endeavoring, if possible, to ar- rive at some satisfactory account of what had taken place. I could only learn that, during his own brief absence of an hour or two from the castle the day before, a person had called, inquiring for me, and, not finding me, had managed to see the countess, and in some manner or another had opened her eyes to the position of herself and son. This was all he knew or could gather from her own incoherent statements or by catechising the servants. My heart half burst with fear that Elric might be the mysterious intruder, but that fear was dispelled when the servant told me he was young and rather good-looking. Certainly a servant would not thus have described the poor fugitive. Meanwhile it seemed vain to waste time in discussing probabilities while the agitated sufferer needed all our care. Those nights were memorable, and the length of three seemed crowded into the few hours of one short summer night. The medical man thought or affected to think she was suffering from an ordinary brain-fever, but he gave very lit- tle hope for a favorable termination to her malady. "She may recover her bodily health, but she has had some great mental shock, and may never have her reason again," lie whispered to me, upon the tenth day. He knew the trials   THLE SECRET IS WHfIISPERED.    2" we had been through, as the newspapers reported them; but doctors can disguise so cleverly, I could never tell if he had gathered the whole truth from her ravings. They were too methodical, I thought, to beguile an experienced man. They were never contradictory upon the main points; and I frequently fancied that she knew perfectly well what she said, especially when she called distractedly for her son. It would seem as if she had lost self-control, and that in- voluntarily she thought aloud. All nourishment had to be forced upon her while she was perfectly docile and patient, in the application of remedies, which in those days were very severe. The fever ran on, undiminished in severity, for twelve days, and then an interval of three days of perfect calm and speechless submission, to be followed by a relapse, in which there was no disguise of an utter mental overthrow. No method in those ravings-no coherency in the fancies which mistook the earl for an enemy, or myself for some longr-for- gotten friend. During the interval of quiet, in which I had less hope than in the twelve days that preceded it, I broke the silence so long sacredly observed between the earl and my- self, and I spoke of my brother. "When can Veron be reached?"I asked. My father shook his head. "It would be very sad for him not to see his mother again, shou sh  she grow worse," I continued. "It would be sadder to see her, I should think." "Have you remarked, father, how incessantly she calls for him? Perhaps his presence might restore her." "Agnes, are you mad? Think, if she should rave to him as she does to you! Iias he not suffered enough, with- out this crowning stroke?" "Father, the story, the secret, is no longer ours, and   212    .   BROOKLEY MOOR. perhaps it would be better and kinder that my brother should have it from you, before he gets it from public prints; or, if you shrink from the task, let my uncle, in his own consoling way, break the truth to his nephew." His eye flashed, and his proud lip curled for a moment, as he replied reproachfully: "And you have confided the story of your claim and titles to him! Nay, I think you had better inform your brother that he is not the heir to these old estates, but that they-" " y lord, my father, is this a time to wrong me thus?" I interrupted. "I have never broken faitl with you, nor whispered your secret to a living soul; on the contrary, I have stifled it in my own heart, and, except when it re- proaches me as a harbored sin, I never think of it. Still, others know it. A dozen, nay, many dozen are still living, who know more than is convenient; and, at the risk of your displeasure, I must say that the time is come for my brother to know the whole truth-and for the accomplishment of another duty, quite as imperative, and that is, to make a just will. If you die intestate, my brother will inherit nothing. The castle and title you probably cannot will. Just now, however, our duty is to summon Veron to his mother, and leave the result to God. I have confidence in my brother's strength of character, and when the way is a right one, and so clearly pointed out to us, we have only to go as conscience directs, and leave the rest to our heavenly Father, who knows what is best for us. "Moreover, dear father, I know such a course will bring peace of mind to you; and what are the honors, and riches, and glory of outward life compared to the tranquillity of the life within? Oh, listen! I have prayed to. have light on this subject, and strength to say what God has taught me to be my duty, and I am sure now it is sinful to conceal longer this wicked secret which has been a curse to our race."   THE SECRET IS WHSPERED.       213 He stood, moodily staring at the fair prospect before him. He turned quickly to me. "Do you know that all these broad lands, those miles of wooded drives, those farms and mills, and far-stretching hill-sides, are yours, if they are not Veron's?" "Mine!"I exclaimed, in amazement. "Surely these lands are entailed." "Entailed upon sons, if any there be, honestly born," he replied, with that cold, withering sneer, which I had scarcely seen for months. "In default of male heirs, a daughter may inherit under certain conditions, one of which is that her eldest son shall perpetuate the title." "Cannot a daughter abdicate her claims in favor of the next of kin?" C Oh, yes! I fancy she is competent to do that, if she has so little respect for her father's inheritance," he an- swered, haughtily. "O father, you wound me so deeply! I only wish to do right, and make you happy. If these lands must come to me in my name, it will make no difference to my brother. He shall be their master, and the castle his home. He shall do with them as, though he were their real lord." "In all things except transmitting the heritage to his own descendants," he replied, in bitter scorn. "Agnes, you are talking like a woman now, and you know very little of Veron, if you think he would play the prince over a kingdom from which he had been rejected." "I know Veron would understand my motives in all this, and I think he would do what was right under all cir- cumstances." "And you think he would thank you for a secret which must either curse him in its possession, if he hugged it to his heart, as I have, or it would send him adrift-a mark for the scorn of the world 1 "    214      BROCKLEY MOOR. "I think," he would say, "it has already cursed and blighted him enough, and that, had he been told the sad story years ago, he had suffered less; but I would not even seem to reproach you now. Veron should be called to his mother's bedside; she will scarcely be well again." This brought him to himself, and he walked the room in painful conflict of feeling. "Who says she will never be well again? The doctors thought her better this morn- ing. Yet, perhaps it would be a mercy for her to be taken from such a world. She has no sin on her pure soul, she has led a saintly life, and she has no fear to haunt her closing hours." "You will send, then, for Veron, father?" He hesitated u moment, and turned sharply upon me as he exclaimed: "No, never! It shall not. be my hand that plunges the fatal knife in his soul. If you care to be the instrument of vengeance, write to him. You know his banker, and that is all that I know "-and, without one softening word or repentant glance, he walked loftily from the room. I returned to my vigil beside the countess, and did not see my father again until we met at that bedside, ten days later, to mingle our tears over that pale and shadowy form, where it was difficult to trace a familiar feature of the once gentle, guileless lady of the castle. During this interval my mind dwelt much upon the unknown visitor, whose revelations, intended for my ear, were so fatally made to the countess, in my absence. Questioning the servants with great care, I followed up the clew of some personal description derived from them. Each step of my inquiries sharpened my interest, and I was able, by cau- tious investigations, to arrive at the fact that a gentle- man, a stranger to the place and to the county, had been active in several directions in gathering information touching   THE SECRET IS WHISPEkED.      215 the castle and its inmates. In his inquiries, my name and that of my grandparents, with whom he claimed kindred, vere mixed up. He had talked too freely, and the frag- ments of his talk I was able to glean helped me at last to a conjecture that the descendant of the family in Canada, to whom I have referred, was the intruder into the castle. The supposition was greatly strengthened by his conduct and language after the visit; and the alarming condition of the countess immediately afterward; spreading consternation in the neighborhood, had probably made him aware, of his imprudence, and the unpleasant conse- quence it might have for himself. He suddenly dis- appeared, and left no trace. Happily none but myself felt any interest in the matter, or connected his presence neces- sarily with the condition of the countess. The solution to me was easier. He had evidently a view to some inherit- ance from our common ancestors, and, in tracing the suc- cession through the records, had come upon evidence of my relation with the family at the castle, which was strengthened by the notoriety of the unhappy circumstances for which he was able to find the right explanation. These he evidently designed to use in furtherance of his own de- signs upon my maternal inheritance, when the catastrophe brought on by his rash imprudence alarmed him, and rid us of his presence. I felt great uneasiness at this most probable explanation, and it would have preyed upon me, but for the sad preoccupation brought by the new gloom thrown over the castle household. With heavy and boding heart I turned to my mournful duties.   216       J3ROCKLEY MOOR. CHAPTER VI. A MOURNFUL PAGEANT. THE evening before the funeral had passed, and still no tidings from the exile. A fortnight had elapsed since I had taken the matter in my own hands, and, a few hours' before his mother's eyes had closed forever, I wrote to my uncle, imploring him to summon Veron. I did not think the end was so nigh; and, as there seemed to be for the sufferer an interval of calm, I risked the earl's displeasure, and, with the very limited knowledge of the means of reaching my brother, I did what I thought best. But alas I that calm was but a prelude to the perfect rest and sleep which "He giveth his beloved," and my message had scarcely reached Mr. Rivers before she was in that slumber which knows no awakening. From that moment there was no authority but mine in the castle; my father shut him- self in his room, and no persuasion or entreaties could draw him from this living burial. It was in vain to consult him, to console him was impossible, and how even his strong frame resisted such mental strain was an every-hour wonder. Inexperienced in the proprieties of such mournful cere- monies in my father's rank, I could only call my uncle to my side, and, for the first time since he had left these halls to wed his own lost love, he entered the castle; and thus day after day dragged on, while we waited for some tidings of the son, until hope was abandoned, and the funeral arrangements were finally announced. A vaulted room, which had once been an oratory, was converted into a chapelle ardente, and there that form, tenderly watched and guarded, lay in solemn state for fourteen days. The atmosphere of the place seemed to arrest the progress   A MJOUi NFUL PAGEANT.       217 of decay, for I saw no great change in the calm features when I looked upon them the day they were to be sealed forever from human view. At a distant part of the estate, buried in seclusion and surrounded by groves of trees, in which the nightingale and thrush built their nests in security, stood the small chapel, which in years gone by had been well filled with faithful worshipers. Beneath that altar the Earls of Durreigh had been gathered to their fathers, generation after generation. The quaint brasses and monumental memorials which nearly covered the chapel- walls, all bore the noble name. Here and there the old escutcheon, in its quarterings, mingled with other titles quite as old and honorable, and, if any spot on earth could teach its lesson of the perishable glory of earth, it was this dim and sombre church. I had once been in it with Lord Veron--it seemed so long ago! He had pointed with ill disguised complacency to a crumbling monument, erected hundreds of years ago-I do not now recall how many-to the noble earl who had added wings to the castle, had strengthened the walls, and erected the chapel, which hereafter was to cover the ashes of the noble line. And while Veron's young blood was kindled at the contem- plation of such antiquity of lineage, he stood above the inanimate dust, where ghastly skulls were grinning, and worms were holding revel, and where he, too, ere long, would go, and take nothing with him of all this pomp and possession at which his cheek was now glowing with pride. To that dark tomb was the countess to be carried. It seemed to be such a dreadful resting-place, I'now recoiled to think of it as the place where I should myself some day lie down with centuries of human decay and dust, which had once been honored and feted. How pleasant in contrast was the recollection of my little brothers' lonely beds, covered with purple heather; my mother's, too, beside her boys, 10   218     BROCKLEY MOOR.   where the sun shone, and upon whose breast the birds were singing! The last day of waiting and expectation had arrived, and the sympathetic and curious were already gathering in the vast reception-rooms-the stately hearse, with its well- trained steeds, the nodding plumes, the dark mimicry of woe, the gloomy train of carriages extending down to the castle-gate, where a gaping crowd stood waiting for the show, or the sorrowful group of weeping retainers, linger- ing to fall in the procession when the last coach should appear. The chaplain was already there, and the favored few were gathering around, the bier, ere it was lifted for its last removal, when in my lonely room I heard the rush of approaching wheels, which broke upon the solemn hush of sounds which is just one remove from silence-the pawing of the waiting steeds was stayed, the lookers-on held their breath, as a close carriage dashed by the waiting hearse and covered the black retinue with dust. Ah! I did not need-to ask the meaning of this' interruption, nor the name of the belated mourner. I did not attempt, through my closed window, to recognize the form which descended in breathless haste from his coach, and mounted to the room where that beloved form lay shrouded. "I am not too late," was all he could utter as Mr. Riv- ers took his hand and led him to the inner room, where my father stood in speechless woe beside the coffin. Not a word or look between father and son, though their beloved dead lay between them. Veron, I am told, was calm and tearless, though his face was scarcely less deathly than that upon which he gazed in more of horror than of grief as it was uncovered at his request. He made a signal that the ceremony should not be de-   A fO URNvFUL PAC GEANT.     219 layed, and then turned toward his bowed and stricken fa. ther. The bier was lifted and carried onward, the pall- bearers took their places, and father and son slowly followed what had been more precious than life to them. Veron drew his father's arm through his, and thus they walked together-a picture of bitter woe and speechless sorrow. They entered the chief mourners' coach, and the pageant moved on. It was not necessary to leave the grounds to reach the chapel; and thus, without noise or confusion, the procession wound slowly through the vast avenues, passing the castle in review twice or thrice in the tortuous paths. When the train of carriages was complete, then came the real mourners a-foot, attired gravely and modestly. Hun- dreds of cottagers, to whom the departed had been an angel of mercy; -the children from the schools, which she had supported; the aged, whom she had pensioned; the orphaned, whom she had sustained; the widowed, whose bereavement she had robbed of much bitterness; while in many a cot, on many a bed of pain, and in many a heart, far and wide, where it had been impossible to follow the mournful cortege, a fervent "reguiescat in pace" remem- bered the hour and the loss. The only sounds were the bells of churches and chapels for miles around, tolling as the procession moved slowly toward its dreary termination. The bells ceased, and I knew that it was over, and soon the returning coaches were heard in the distance, while the followers a-foot departed by distant gates, and, when the earl and his son returned, there had already been a general dispersion of friends and distant relatives. Before night there was that unsympathetic setting in order of a dis- turbed household which always grates so fearfully upon the senses of the bereaved. Lord Veron did not linger. He returned to the castle simply to remount his traveling-carriage, to which fresh     220      BROCKLEY MOOR. horses had been put, and, taking a respectful leave of his father, to whom he murmured in parting, "May God bless and comfort you, my father!" he went-no one asked, no one knew whither. O weak and foolish heart I O frail and trembling spirit! Was grief forgotten and bereavement overlooked, as the heart beat and the spirit fluttered at the sight of that once- beloved form and the tones of that thrilling voice, as my ear caught his half-whispered adieus to his uncle, and the more defined directions to his servants? What marvelous magnetism attracted his eyes to those closely-barred win- dows, at which he could see nothing, but from which he was seen! What fascination there was even in the far- receding coach that bore him away Hmy eyes were fixed upon it until it was lost in the woods which embowered the chapel where his mother was at rest. CHAPTER    VII. "FE AT THE CASTLE. FYoM that day my ministry became one of practical ac- tivity. Night had not closed upon us when I had a sum- mons from the earl. I had not dared to invade the sacred privacy of his grief. Having been repeatedly denied en- trance to him, I could only wait for some opportunity to remove that barrier. It was with utter astonishment, therefore, that I found him almost cheerful. A fire had been kindled on his hearth, for, though it was midsummer, there was always a chill in that favored place; and the light of many candles was struggling with the gloom of the dark wood and heavy furniture of the room.   "FE AT THE CASTLE.       221 He met me as I entered, and folded me to his heart. After a moment's pause he said, in an unsteady voice: "I have now but you in all this world, my daughter, my daughter " "May God help me to be a blessing to you, my father!" I knew there were hidden thoughts in his heart, and I al- most guessed them. We sat down side by side before the bright fire, which snapped and crackled in almost unsym- pathetic glee. There was a long; long silence as we both sat looking intently upon the fire, and reading, each in our own way, the pictures made by the glowing coals as they fell upon the polished hearth. A long pause, a deep sighl and he spoke in a low voice: "Agnes, your brother was here to-day." What could I say? "I have heard that he was at the funeral, but that is all. Did he tell you-did he say--" I could get no further. "He told me nothing; yet he said, as plainly as though it were in words, that he had cast me utterly from his heart, and, with a cold, unforgiving, relentless memory of the past, he would relieve me of his presence henceforth and forever. It was mere respect for his mother's memory that brought him to be a silent witness of this day's pageantry. Utterly heartless! The poorest cottager on the place was more moved than he. ' His black suit was all of mourning that he displayed, and he looked with perfect indifference upon the sorrowful assistants as they went through their gloomy task; and, if he shuddered as he stepped forward and gazed within the dark cavern, it was because of the chill that rose from the place. Misguided boy! mistaken course I I had hoped-oh, how vainly-that my gray hairs were to be stroked by his filial hand, and my widowed heart be robbed of its utter loneliness by his atoning care! /    222      .BROCKLEY MOOR. And it is for him I have led this life of prolonged, almost unequaled, martyrdom. It is to save him his birthright that I have steered this lying, deceitful course for all the years that have rolled over his proud head. And now he defies me! Ah, little he dreams of the humiliation in which that head is to be bowed-of the cup he is yet to drink!" I could not defend him, although I comprehended better than his father the bitterness of the cup of which he had already tasted so deeply. I have but you now, my daughter. And, now that her gentle heart cannot be wounded, the world shall know your claims-perhaps that will bring another formal visit from the offended heir." "O father! judge him not too harshy. Recall his bitter disappointments, his trials, his forced expatriation. Think, too, how much of your own resistless will he has inherited, and be merciful in your judgments." "To-morrow, Agnes, I make my will, my last will; and, when I rest beside her who has been left in that gloomy vault to-day, by the contents of that will I shall be judged to have been a just and merciful man. Let us never speak again of him who has checked the warm flow of natural affection in my heart, or, rather, who has turned it where it should have flowed years long past, and fewer ghosts would have haunted the castle now. You have henceforth a mission; and the care of an old man, with a heart full of bitter recollections, tormented by the memory of wrongs committed and duties neglected, will give you little time to remember your own trials, and recall disappointments which have blighted youth and nipped all its fair promises."   THE WA NDEpER.         223 CHAPTER    VIII. THE WANDERER. WITHN a fortnight of these dreary scenes, the earl went to London-a rare event with him--and, telling me that his absence should not be very long, I availed myself of my liberty to find a few days' rest of body and repose of spirit at the rectory. There were matters troubling me which I hoped my uncle might remedy, and I confided to him the unhappy results of my brother's brief visit to the castle. Mr. Rivers was free to admit that nothing could quite justify Lord Veron's unsympathetic manner to his father, and, after much debate upon the subject, we came to the conclusion that it would be kinder to Veron to have him informed of the earl's deeply-wounded spirit. Mr. Rivers wrote a few lines, kindly and tenderly tell- ing him the truth, and assuring him, unhesitatingly, that such resentment was very sinful. His father, he added, had suffered so much already that any addition to his trials at this moment could only be regarded as cruelty. The let- ter was brief, but full of affection and very characteristic of the writer, who carried to the discharge of every duty the force and directness of his mind, and the gentleness of his manner. There was no more definite direction than his bankers', and to their care the letter was sent. Within forty-eight hours the following was received: "MY HON1ORED UNCLE AND KIND FRIEND: I am much pained at what you write, while I am grateful for your frankness. I grieve to say that no remedy is in my power.  The Earl of Durreigh has forfeited all claim to my filial respect. A long life of systemetic de-   224       BROCKLEY MOOR. ceit has sacrificed the fair fame of one woman, clouded the domestic life of a second, and inflicted worse than death upon an unprotected and motherless daughter, while it has sent his only son to wander like Cain-branded with shame, cursed by his kind, and shunned by all. This has a fit sequel in the wretchedness that must go with him to his not distant grave. Then, too, but for your letter, for which I infer I am as much indebted to my unhappy sister, I should not have had the melancholy privilege of looking upon my mother's cold face, nor have followed her to her last resting-place. I traveled night and day hoping to see that face once more in life, and from public announcements alone did I learn that only by almost superhuman speed could I reach the castle in time to testify my affection and respect. "Indeed, I should have been a hypocrite to weep that she had been removed from her sorrow and a companion- ship which, to her pure, truthful soul, must have been a liv- ing purgatory. Her letters, written up to a month before her decease, never made one reproach, but I saw that her heart was breaking, and, had it not been for the sweet com- panionship of a daughter found only too late, these latter years had been most miserable. "Will you say to Agnes, for I know you must often see her, that her pious ministry at the castle has smoothed my mother's pathway to the grave. And oh! perchance it may soften the heart of stone, which cannot but melt and repent, if aught of human emotion stirs its sluggish pulsation, as memory suggests the wrongs and recalls the images of our martyred ones. "My mother wrote to me of the influence for good that his daughter was exercising over the earl. May God bless her! and if my deepest, most fervent gratitude be at all precious to her, assure her of it, and invoke her prayers for   : ltI WAJNDERER.       225 225 her exiled, unhappy brother, to whom is denied even the small satisfaction of being useful to one soul on all this broad earth. Dear uncle, I pray you, forgive me if I have wounded your kind and manly heart; but I must be as honest as yourself. Love to my bright little cousin, etc., etc. VJEnoN." We read the letter twice. "Do you think he is right, Agnes?" "Nay; I think he is very, very wrong." "If you could see him, Agnes, and talk to him as you did to me, he would be converted, I am sure." "Oh, dear uncle, I could not! I could not! My uncle regarded me steadily, and kindly took my hand. "Agnes, you have faith in my affection, have you not? And you believe that I have some knowledge of the human heart, do you not?" "Oh! I have this faith, and I trust your judgment; but, uncle, I cannot have faith in myself. I dare not allow even my thoughts to travel toward Veron." My voice trembled as I confessed the agitation of feeling and palpi- tation of heart that I experienced when I heard him speak, and had but a glimpse of his face, from, my window in the castle. Even the very sight of his familiar writing - gave me a sickness of heart. "In spite of all this, my child, I counsel a bold remedy. You and he are not realizing your actual relations. You are both treasuring up the memory of your disappoint- ments, and you are to each other, not brother and sister, but-pardon me, if -the word is gross-you are lovers, iopeless, and unhappy in your hopelessness. You have no Suture, you look for, no remedy to the past-in other du- ;ies, or the future. I can well believe that neither you   226       Duv I  AV zL J u v nor he will ever love again or form any other ties. I admit that your experience is unique, as far as I have ever heard or read of others. But you have both idealized the actual object of past affection, and you would both be startled and shocked could you know, probably, how closely you are each hugging an idol to your soul. "The shock with which you were separated has only sundered your physical and material relations to each other-the idea of 'love's young dream' was rudely dissi- pated, but its folly, its monstrousness, its utter impossibil- ity, have never been realized. The necessity of instant separation was acknowledged, and was wise and inevita- ble; but, before either of you can be happy, you will have to witness your actual relations, and chase from your hearts this diffidence-this reluctance to meet or to speak. The strain upon the feelings will be great at first, and you may have sleepless nights and dreary days; but, Agnes, this sentiment must be torn from the heart, root and branch. "You must think of him as your father's son" (God knows I never forgot that). "You must speak of him, write to him, and acknowledge the fraternal relation pub- licly and privately. Unhappily, you cannot meet as brother and sister under your father's roof, although that may yet, with God's blessing, come to pass. "I have long yearned to say all this to you, but circum- stances have kept us apart much of late. Then, too, I may have had a cowardly shrinking from using my prun- ing-knife too freely, but I am so sure of your good sense." I sat silent and probed to the very quick. Every word was true, and every warning well deserved, yet I dared not admit the wisdom of the remedy. The means to cure the malady, I feared, might be as fatal to my peace of mind and conscience, as the disease itself. Still I was sure of my uncle's wisdom, and I asked:   THE WANDr . DR22   "What shall I do. Veron will never enter the castle again, and there certainly my highest, duties claim me." Reply at once to this letter, in your own way, and let him know you could say a multitude of things which you cannot write." Oh, the heartaches, the self-distrust, the cruel misgivings with which the following brief iines were brought forth: "MY DEAR BROTHEn: Your letter to  6ur uncle has given me much distress. Yu cannot know the fearful an- guish of mind, and, I am sure, remorse for the past, with which our father is expiating his dreadful mistakes, and it is a great, sorrow to me that his trials have been augmented by the conviction that you had thoroughly east him from your heart. Will you forgive me if I say that he needs all our sympathy and kindliness to save him from despair and perhaps desperation, in a form which would add 'to our own discomfort. A self-accusing heart, a remorseful conscience, are heavier burdens, my brother, tha/n the consciousness of being wronged, or of having suffered at others' hands. If I could see you, I could probably convince you better of this fact ? "I shall be at the rectory for a few days. Our uncle thinks it would be better and wiser for us to meet with less reserve, and to prove that I am, with the best wishes for your present and etcral happiness, "Your devoted sister,    AN~EsS." The letter was approved by my uncle, and sent. Two days later, this was brought to me: "DEAREST SIsTER: I must resist the almost overpow- ering temptation to see you; I am not sufficiently master of myself to follow the convictions of your own pure heart,   DJJ*f V VL da AI nor my uncle's counsel. Time is my only remedy, and per. feet expatriation my sentence. My brain is in a whirl, and my heart beats too rapidly, even in writing thus, to justify to myself the illusion that the past is forgotten, and, as by miracle, the present transformed! May God bless you and comfort you, and be sure that it is because I would do right, that I am not now with you at the rectory. I will reflect upon what you say as to the earl. I would not fail in my duty. "Pray for strength for your brother, Vl;RON." It was with infinite relief that I read these words, every one of which had a responsive echo in my own heart, con- firming too sadly my uncle's well-defined description. He was grave and disappointed. iHe had predicted returning tranquillity to my father's mind and a sweet picture of do- mestic quiet, while brother and sister for the first time, gathered in the parental nest, should vie with each other in devotion to the repentant father. He saw, however, the hopelessness of his task. Lord Veron was quite as determined in his own mind, as his father had been before him; and certainly no one would accuse either father or son of indecision or wavering when he had once marked out a course, be it for better or worse. It was thus, while my uncle and I were lamenting the unhappy distance that was widening between the earl and his son, and devising innocent means of bridging over the chasm, that the family-coach, with its stately attend- ants, was sent to the rectory to bring back the absent -child, without whom the castle had few charms for the father.   4 WI'LUOME, HOME.       229 CHAPTER IX. A W   LCO 3E I OME. AT the great gate of the park my father met. me. It was a glorious evening in August, at the close of a brilliant, though not oppressive, summer day. lIe was on horse- back, and the Arab hunter was saddled beside him. I did not need urging to descend from the funereal old coach and in a few minutes we were cantering through our own favorite by-ways to the castle. There was unfeigned satisfaction in my father's recep- tion; doubtless he was pleased with my prompt return, and his manner was more cheerful than I had ever yet seen it. As we rode on through shady paths or richly-wooded groves, he would stop and point out some favorite spot of beauty, Qr some projected improvement, in a manner which indi- cated all too plainly his perfect belief in my coming right to possess and improve what he had so faithfully treasured of his own inheritance. He was reluctant to enter the cas- tle, and seemed in no hurry to retire to his former solitude, and it was not until long after his usual dinner-hour that wae found ourselves tite-d-tte in the small, bright, norning- rqom. which seemed so much more cheerful for us two than the large, dimly-lightqd dining-room, which always surg. gested 'pomp and state, rather than comfort and cozy cheer. He was chatty during our repastj but not communicative as to the objects of his journey. In the early part of the evening, instead of' retreating to his den as usual, he fol- lowed me to my own sitting-room. I do not think I have said that a beautiful suite of rooms in the west wing had been furnished under the directions of the lamented count- ess, in which her own refined and exquisite taste had been   230    IBROoCKLEY MfOOR.  thoroughly displayed, and where every thing had been brought together for my pleasure and comfort. These rooms had been dvotedr to me shortly after my reception in the castle. They correspnded extly with a similar suitein the east wing, which my brother had once occu- pied, and which was still called "Lord Veron's." They were also separated by the broad stairway from the rooms of the countess. My father's apartments were all on the lower story, and ea suite with his library, and none of them less gloomy than that room in which he had imprisoned Hle would not be persuaded to remove to more genial quarters until the death of the countess, and then, with the strange perversity of his character, he had all his effects removed to the rooms which adjoined the suite of the de- parted lady, and which, in earlier and happier days, he had occupied as all the lords of the castle had done before him. The entrance to Veron's rooms was by a private stairway, now utterly condemned and blockedup The rooms had also been closed almost hermetically since the funeral. I had never been in them. After dinner on this day, which is of memorable date in my records, my father followed me almost immediately to my room. He had found it dreary work lingering over his wine in solitude, with the solemn old butler taking note of every movement) and in a few moments he entered my apartment almost timidly. "You have never shown me your rooms, he said, Ho apologetically, as he glanced around. "Oh, I am in princely state! Mamma forgot nothing, but overwhelmed me with luxury," and we walked through the small and elegant establishment. Ipaused at the door of my dressing-room, but not before his quick eye dis- covered the portrait, unfortunately but half veiled. That   A WiELCOME HOME.        231 old, stern, half-repellant expression, of countenance was upon him; he half turned away, and then witl a firm step walked toward the portrait and drew the curtain quite aside. That old ashy paleness crept over his cheeks and brow. His gaze seemed fascinated, and, when he withdrew, a deep sigh, almost a groan, escaped him. "Oh had I never seen that fair, bewitching face, or rather, had I been faithful to that tender heart, how much of misery we had escaped! At last she is in the castle- how marvelous are the ways of life! Sweet angel! those eyes! they could never look but with love and mercy.! More loving than many a worldwfamed Madonna's, more merciful than Heaven itself! Oh, could the grave give back its. dead! could just one word reach me from that far-away dwelling, where all my peace and rest of mind went when those matchless eyes were closed!" I drew him into another room. "My father, I believe those eyes do look still lovingly and mercifully upon you. At least I know there was forgiveness in her dying thoughts. Let us not look backward, but forward, far forward, when assured of something more precious than human forgive- ness." "O then the glory and the bliss When all that pained or seemed amiss, Shalt melt with earth and sin away! When saints beneath their Saviour's eye, Filled with each other's company, Shall spend in love th' eternal day!" Such was the burden of my thoughts, perhaps not then clothed in these words by our immortal Keble, but which, for many a year, have haunted me like a promise of union with all who have gone before, until I stand alone on this dreary shore waiting for the call. How I love to recall the gentleness with which lie ls-   232       BROCKLEY .Z OR. tened-how precious to me is the recollection of his ten- derness, of his unwillingness to dispute the truths; which he perceived were living truths to me I How unlike his once proud refusal to be comforted, and his utter unbelief in God's power to pardon, or man's adequately to repent I How startled we were when, the castle clock struck the midnight hour; and we could scarcely believe' we had  counted aright the strokes, and we had spoken of little else than serious matters! He had stroked my hand and been fond in his manner, and when he rose to say good-night, he kissed my brow and hoped we might often have such eve- nings-they did him good, and he was sure no ghosts would haunt him that night. Alas t how little we thought of the ghostly messenger then on his way I He kissed me twice again in parting, and I stood at my door, watching him cross the broad landing and turn to the dim corridor upon which his own doors opened. His step was firm and his voice strong as he left me with a cheerful "Good-night- God bless you!' Had infinite mercy touched the once defiant heart? Had the still small voice, in its distinct ar- ticulation, been heard amid the strife of passion, the move- ments of remorse, and the wild upbraidings and accusa- tions? God grant it, for. He never vouchsafed a deeper insight within that bruised, bleeding, and self-tortured heart, than was granted to me that evening. But my re. trospect grows tedious, and my readers will weary of the long review which I have taken of that interval which finds me a newly-adopted child of Durreigh, and. my late weari- some vigil on the shores of the Mediterranean.   GOT IIT . 233 CHAPTER X. THE GHOSTLY VISITANT. THAT evening, which seemed a promise of happier days with returning hope and health to a diseased and self-tor- tured spirit, comes back to me now, as an instance of God's great mercy to me in blessing my poor, weak ministry to MY father's, etcra       Poor, twak Ministry to my father's eternal good. Before the sun of the morn rose I had been summoned to his side, as we all supposed, to close his eyes in death. That would have been a merci- ful 'dispensation, humanly speaking, cmpared ith teri- slow and tedious wearing out of what was left of the body, and his reduction to almost an -animal existence, by-the drethad o     ver the higher faculties. I will not revive those months which became years. Three such had dragged on their weary length, when we aThre found  Southern Europe. From place to place I wandered with the sufferer, who was nowhere at ease. At home he was perfectly unmanageabl% and was never satisfied to remain to lose than a few days in any spot. At he castle he seemed to lose every semblance of rational manhood, and would rave and exhaust himself in childish terror of ghosts and, demons; while traveling his eye seemed to be attracted and his thoughts diverted from himself. physician, whose remuneration was princely, and two A ple ysician, ffent with me and a faithfulS ra 'male nurscs, vent with me and a faithful maid-servant from one land to nother. Many counseled an asylum, but  would no hink of that so long as he was not violent. inally, I re olved to establish a .....,  lent. Finally, re- lved to establish a household in some unfrequented place, ,d after much deliberation a home (what profanation of te sacred word!) was made for us not far from the beauti- 1l bay of Genoa; and there I took possession, in a sort   234       BROCKLE Y .MOOR. of hermit's life, of the little spot I have mentioned. We indulged our patient in every fancy, and it was of small matter if he supposed himself traveling, whether it was in a circuit of five miles or five hundred. There would be days of sullen calm, when he scarcely would utter a word. He would submit with the helpless- ness of an infant to the handling of his attendants, which upon other occasions made him furious. His existence at such times was merely animal; he would eat and sleep, with no idea of what he was doing. These intervals were sure to be superseded by long days of discontent and trial to the watchers. Without seeming to realize his present condition, his mind was always running back and snatch- ing up fragments of the pursuing past. He talkedof per- sons of whom I had never heard, and would be in anger because I could not answer his ill-articulated questions. Reproaches were heaped upon me-the cruelest accusa- tions of self-seeking brought before me; and at times the most painful demands for his son: where was I hiding him, and why did I keep him from his forlorn old father, whose gout was holding him in prison. Then he would ask for his will, implore me to bring it to him that he might add something or cancel something. But why go on with such a harrowing picture of an intellect almost dethroned, and a strong frame breaking up gradually under disease and the consuming power of an uneasy conscience, which was stronger than the withering intelligence, and seemed likely to outlive the faculties of body ? Months had passed away, and neither remedy nor re- lease seemed any nearer than when the cross was first laid upon me. I prayed daily for strength, and blessed be God for the daily answer to my prayer, else had I failed and fainted long ago. Who can realize the burden of that cross which I carried without human aid or sympathy ?   THE GCOSTLZY VISITANT.   Shortly after the stroke--which was the forerunner of years of suffering--I addressed myself to Veron's banker inclosing a letter to be forawarded with all dispatch.  herad briefly told him of the earl's hopeless condition, leaving it to his heart and judgment to mark out his own course of conduct according to his owvn ideas of duty. 'Not many days later I heard from the banker. Lord Veron had kept Mfy brief note, however, was retained, as there were also a few letters saiting orders; and Lord V eron migh at any day dispatch a messenger. So said the writer, but i knew the' hopelessness of the case. to his father, heo incessantly called for his son, and in his wilder moments raved incoherently of the inheritance, of his will he had proposed making, and other things, which were all an evidence that the absent and long-ido1ized son still held sway in the father's heart. Unhappily, the chance was lost. My vigil could not be abandoned to one whose ministry might be happier and more acceptable to the sufferer, nor could it be even shared. I had no wish to abandon the work which God had given me, nor to shirk a duty Which had come unbidden. I could only pray for heavenly armor in w hich to meet the dreaded foe. It was a merciful veil that obscured from my view the conflict in all its length and breadth.    2BRO OKLEY MOOR. 23V CHAPTER XI. TEE IDYING EAPL. "Fear not, I am with thee, O be not dismayed; I, I am thy God, and will still give thee aid." CAVIL not, ye unbelievers, dispute not, ye faint-hearted, when such words come to you in your sunless way--when, lone w ith no human sympathy nor communion to heer you, the night is darkest and the cross is heaviest. But for such sweet assurance of aid, such promises of fellowship, how had I lived through trials which pen can- not portray nor the heart care to recall? Oh, I had prayed to go down myself to that wearing repose seemed like heven ompared with that wndearing away of body and the greater strain upo the mid  as I watched my father almost imperceptibly going down to the valley of death. That struggle between his iron-like frame and equally tenacious spirit is, I hope, but rarely ex- perienced; and, long after the physician pronounced the end approaching, he was lingering in alternate anguish and stupor. His mind seemed to throw off a little of its weight, but unhappily the power of expressing his desires dimin- ished as they themselves were more defined. This roused his temper, and I care not to picture those harrowing mem- ories. These scenes were repeated until the eye grew lustreless, and all things told us that the process of final dissution was begun. A few hours at most would close dissolution was begun. the chapter of that existence. How agonizingly I hung over the helpless by ow I sought to penetrte the clouded vision I Hlow I longed to catch one word of hope that would recall that memor' bl evening at the castle I   THE DYING EARL.        237 A few words were intelligible, and they were of Veron. In the hope that he might hear more accurately than he could speak, and that something he might wish, if ever so  faintly, to comfort or cheer his departing spirit, I whispered words of hope, of heavenly consolation, and promised to do all he seemed to wish in respect to his estates, although I had but a remote idea of what those wishes were. His head turned slightly, and those eyes, dim and misty, were raised to mine, and I caught the words, "Will-he-not --come? Will-he-soon-be-with-me?" uttered with painful effort, and only detected by an car that had learned to catch almost an inarticulated wish. Were his senses sharpened? Had his ear detected an approach to which mine was deaf? Why did those dying eyes turn so ex- pectantly to the door each time it opened? The prostrate form almost sprung into life and comeliness as at length the door was pushed quickly ba6k and the heated and trav- el-worn wanderer entered in breathless speed, noticing none and caring for nothing as he threw himself upon the breast of the, dying man, exclaiming in language not unlike that of the prodigal: "I have sinned-I have sinned! Fa- ther, forgive me! father, bless and forgive!"A convul- sive grasp bore the forgiveness, a groan wrung from the departing soul was the father's blessing; and Veron clasped the long-suffering form to his own repentant heart, and we  left him with his dead.  An hour later we met beside that bed upon which there should be no more anguish and no long-enduring prayer for release. Veron sat in silent contemplation of the wreck. He started as I approached with extended hand. For a moment he scarcely recognized the intruder. "Is this Agnes, so wan, so changed?" Alas! he was not prepared to see the snow-white head and wasted form. He remem- bered but the maiden in bridal attire at Brockley altar, now   238       BROOKLEY lMOOR. six long years ago. It was a blessed dispelling of the illu- sion, and I said quietly: "Dear brother, it is Agnes, who has watched for you as well as herself, beside our father's couch of suffering, all these long months." "And you could thus forgive him?" "He suffered more than I, and before his illness we were all and all to each other." "Did he ever speak of his less-forgiving child?" "From the hour he was stricken to the moment you en- tered the room you were never from his thoughts, and scarcely an hour in which he was not speaking of his well- beloved son." "You reproach me in your heart, Agnes? You think I should have shared your vigil." "I think, my brother-but no matter-you suffer now; and God mercifully gave me strength to fulfill my task. It has been a thrice-blessed discipline for me. It enabled me to smoothe my father's passage to the grave; while, had I been elsewhere, or had I failed in strength, he had probably languished these years, shut out from all human sympathy, in some asylum in our native land. This cross which God put upon me was chastisement, sent in mercy, for," I added, firmly, and put my hand in his, "I have cru- cified self-I have mastered a passion which might have overwhelmed me with wretchedness, and it has made me realize "-I could not but pause--" my relations to you. I have been made to feel that my father was your father, that his wild ravings were for my brother, and that the love of my youth was buried in a distant grave, and quite disas- sociated with this living, wandering, mistaken Veron, whose image my father kept before me. And, finally, these years of training have taught me where the true joys of life are to be found. But I have said enough. We may not linger here. There are sad offices to be performed, which are not for   AN .NW QruaIAN dPP'4S 239 our eyes and hands.") lie reluctantly left the room to muse upon my words and to confer with the proper persons as to the practical duties which oftentimes hppily eriv n a toind a diversion from its win keen ge rief And thus we met after these years of separation W had many things to relate, but we never touched upon the secrets of our hearts. There was in each a sacred privacy which it was unsafe for the other to eter. Duri my long years of discipline and vigil, my brother hrd been effacing an ceimage beloved in stranger lands and rude ex- perience. In all that absence he had kept aloof from his countrymen, avoiding evenBritish journals. Finally,ovr. mastered by desire and i onging for home, he turned his the to the land it his birth e hoped to surprise us at the castle, and if was there he received the bulletin worded so long ago, and, within an hour of his leaving our actual abiding-place, he was again on the road, traveling with the utmost speed of that day, hoping to r eceiveli ather's blessing, and revoke the curse- hich he felt hi cruel neglect and remorseless abandonment had justly earned for him. One day sooner, and perchance he had Won back to a brief life the glimmering spark, which had been quite extinguished by the shock of his arrival. CHAPTER XII. A NEW GUARDIAN APAPELS. ONCE again the castle-doors are thrown pen, and mid the tolling of bells, and the hush of Voices, a mourn- 1 ortee winds its way again through the lonideserted ives. There are fewer real mourners than we saw in the st multitude who followed the lamented lady of the cas-   240       BROCKLEY MOOR. tle to her gloomy resting-place; but there is no diminution of state display, nor almost regal pomp, in the long retinue of coaches with their crests of ducal and lordly lineage. The cold and sombre church becomes more sombre as its aisles and nave are filled with dark forms, and the dim light is absorbed by the heavy trappings of woe with which it has been draped. The funeral of an earl is not an every-day affair, and of earls, there are not many of such ancient descent, nor of such an interminable rent. roll, as he for whom that old tomb is opened to-day. Lord Veron and his uncle were the sole mourners. Mr. Rivers, now an aged and venerable man, seemed likely soon to follow his brother, and, as he stood upon one side oJ the gaping tomb, and the young earl, as he was already called, bowed in woe upon the other, the noble house seemed but poorly represented in male descendants. Again the scattering of followers, the rapid return to the castle of the few who were interested in the affairs of the family, and we were all assembled in the library, more gloomy and dreary than ever, to hear the reading of the will. While the search was made for this instrument, I was trembling like a culprit, and the secret which had crushed my father was pressing heavily upon me. It was produced by my brother, who seemed to be familiar with its contents, and who, quietly handing it to the gentleman who had acted as my father's solicitor for many years, seated himself composedly to hear it read. The length of time that had elapsed since its date at once relieved my mind of doubt as to its provisions. A deadly fear that my father's determination had been enforced, and his son entirely disinherited, was quickly banished. After providing largely for the countess, and devising certain es- tates to his brother Rivers, whom he designated honorable   4 NrEV  G  RDIANr APPEAS.       241 as   sreverend, bequeathing hdsome sums o nieces and nephews, children of deceased brothers and sisters, gen- Trenor, Earl of  rreig  who inherted all estates and property not otherwiservants the s of twenty thousandd. Wapounds this to be will tat had embittered te arl's dyingham A stile d da mu rmur of surprise asd beloved, as the read ended, and the parchment closed. ee this duty who had returnformed to the house, a strangero to m    and indeed to all others rose, and rather startled the company, as he declared ery dquietly "I dono that is the las will ofthat hd embittere late earl's. I am Si  r William As "        caehe was one of whom the earl had fr anion of the lamente  earl. Abo  f    our years ago,  'eceived a letter from friend, t I  me thats  very ina ppt  family circumstances had obliged him to mat eri- lly modify the natural disosa   his   tho at rih e had just executed and  ill ha d pad e me hs xcutor i conjunction with his brother, the ion, and Rev. Wilton ivers. That letter W as delayd ir r eachin g me, owing to Y absence from my post, and, befo re it could be acknowi. ged, I had tidings ofdeed the llness (thers, rose, and to be )rtaD of my oldfriend. I have been in England but a days, and hastened to pa y the las tribute of friendship ,  i    a ssume my duties as executor of the ear's last Wishes d  Perfect silence followed this extraordinar y esauno e nce from MY ost. and  , befo' P       re iteould be acknowl-   242       BROCKLEY MOOR. ment. Veron regarded me with an inquiring glance, but said nothing. Distant relatives eyed me suspiciously, but no one broke silence, until my uncle remarked that his niece, the Lady Agnes, had been constantly with her father, for four, nay, nearly six years, and that any such proceed- ing could not have escaped her knowledge, and he there- fore asked me outright if I knew of any such transaction. I could only declare my ignorance. At the same time, upon being questioned by Sir William Ashe, I had to con- fess that my father had threatened to make a new will, for reasons which I did not think I was bound to explain. Would you personally have profited by the change in the will?"' I had to admit that in a worldly point of view I would have gained, perhaps. "Did you seek to dissuade the earl from making any serious change?" "The earl, Sir William, you may remember," interrupt- ed my uncle, "was not a man likely to be dissuaded from a purpose." I saw that my uncle perceived how painful such questionings were to me, as he added: "Here is Mr. Knowall,who has been my brother's solicitor for thirty years; he is a more fitting person to be questioned." To this moment, Mr. Knowall had been silent, but rather fidgety, and replied, curtly: "I know of no later will than this, which was made at our office fifteen years ago, and a certified copy is there now."  "Did he never make any codicil or suggest any modi- fication to this?" pursued the indefatigable Sir William. The indignant family solicitor could hold himself in subjection no longer, and he sprang to his feet. "Yes, le did suggest a most infamous modification," he thundered out, " and I stayed the unrighteous act. The old man was then in his dotage, and easily beguiled." He   A  W 6NJ  CUARDIf A PpAI4S.4 looked  Iwithering ty at me. ",243 looked itheringly at me. "tle had a damnable project for me to carry out for him, and I showed him his mad folly, and I never heard any thing more of him or his new ideas of justice. The fact is, it was onlyr this eat he was struck down with the paralysis which finally car- ried him off; and I think he was touched here" (puttina g his finger to his forehead) when  e ame to see me." "There was no madness in the letter which I recei ed and there is mystery in all this that I would like to fath- om," continued Sir William. "If this painful discussc is to be continued, I must ask permission for my sister to retire," said Veron, rising and walking toward me. "The young lady is too important a witness to be al- lowed to retire until I have learned all I as to those days' i ediatedy pro         isa ^ as to tho dys i  ediately prceding my friend's disablement;  adl the persevering man now walked toward me, and every eye was turned upon me, some in piy, ot rs i susaicion and one or two only in love and sympathy. "Do  rou remember-, he paused as if not knowing how. to address me.--"Lady Agnes" was s  gte by my brother.              suggested by "Do you happen to remember Lady Agnes, the exact day upon which your fa- the earl was seized?3  A date not likely to befor l accuracy.  ey  eforgotten, and given with pain- The cold-blooded Sir William drew from a capacious wallet the letter of which he had spoken--the last, un- loubtedly, my father had ever penned. It was writtenin London, and posted there but two days before that un  ppyillness, lew -ote in conclusion: "I am in great aste to catch the Indian mail which closes to-nigt, as ell as tear myself from this odious, smoky ton, and to  ast as horse can carry me to myhome   There is    244       BROCKLEY MOO0. bright presiding spirit in the castle now, which has lured me from my dismal solitude, and with a bewitching influ- ence beguiles me from my sorrows, of which I have had not a few since you and I parted a score of years ago. Sons are very well, and an heir is a very fine thing, but when your widowed heart aches, and you yearn for human sympathy, there is no ministry like a daughter's. You may know her better some day if you should outlive me, which is not improbable considering I have the start of you by ten years; and you have gone through the test- years of an Indian residence, which, if they survive, seems to give the old fellows a brevet of longevity. My brother and you are about the same in years, although he is nearly as old-looking as I, and not nearly so strong in health and constitution. Still I have had a sort of admonition to put my house in readiness, and the result may be a closer in- timacy between my college friend and my peerless daugh- ! ter Agnes," etc. "The rest is irrelevant, gentlemen, but if you find any a marks of feeble intellect in those lines, why, then, let the a present will go to probate and we will look no further for  another. For my own part, I believe there is another of a more recent date, but where, seems to be a mystery. I have not the slightest personal interest in either, but I have a warm regard for my friend's memory, and a sincere  desire to carry out his last wishes." "Perhaps you can elicit some more light from further in questioning of the earl's peerless daughter," sneered Mr. li Knewal.                        th Veron was burning with indignation, and would have th answered the angry solicitor in his own temper but for Sir to William's pertinacious adherence to the subject. Certain- CS ly he had learned to keep cool amid the heats of India, leC and it was refreshing to see him.   a  C' W GW UAIDIAN AP PE1A2 .   245 "So far, Lady Agnes, our dates agree. Can ou re- nember when your father spoke of making a new will?" Again memory was faithful. The day after the late ady of the castle was left in her lonely chamber-as her ord was left beside her this day--could not be forgotten. t was just ten days before the date of the letter. "And ow, good sir," addressing the solicitor, "can you recall 'ithin a week the date of my lord's visit to your office, on chalf of a codicil or new document?" "I can find it by looking at my books, for I knew it ruck me he had been in hot haste to show himself in lic, as his poor wife was hardly, cold in her grave." "She had been ten days in her tomb when tfhese lines re written," rejoined the impracticable baronet, and then addressed himself to my brother: My young friend, you are the acknowledged heir, and, the Earl of Durreigh, you have great interests in charge. mu are my godson as well, although I never had mucl to ith your moral training. But, more than this, you : the son of a long-beloved friend, and therefore I need apologize for this seeming intrusion into your family drs. May I ask, without meditating the slightest rude- 5s, do you not intend to search for another will?" "Most certainly not," answered Veron. "To this gen- nan my father always committed his business transac- Is; and, although there is reason to believe that the earl ended to modify his bequests-most likely, only in favor ny sister-there is very little ground to justify the be- that he ever did execute any testament or codicil later 1 that which our family solicitor has read. In relation y sister "--he smiled as he regarded me--"t her inter- are in faithful keeping, and she will not find the son ready than the father to acknowledge claims which it ld insult her to suppose could be acquitted by even the   246       BROCKLEY MOOR. whole revenue of this earldom!" (A suppressed murmur of approval, and whispers of "Noble, generous, high-souled!") At the close of my brother's remarks, Sir William Ashe rose to take leave, but not until he had looked fear- lessly upon the company, and in his inflexible tones de- clared: "I firmly believe that my friend Edward Trenor, known to you all as the Earl of Durreigh, has left a will which contains provisions annulling and canceling many clauses in that which you have just heard read." His manner grew solemn as he added, "So help me Heaven, I will turn and overthrow until I am convinced that I am mistaken, or I find the missing document!" EIe walked toward me and with great courtesy, took leave, although not until he had made an appointment to see me, and in a lower voice bade me adieu, and pressed my hand in parting, as he said: "I beg pardon if I have wounded you or seemed grossly and roughly to handle delicate matters. I regard you as something of a legacy from your father, and we are bound to be good friends." His smile was so bright and his manner so frank that, al- though inclined at first to resist his pertinacious interfer- ence, I could but give him my hand and assure him that I would hold myself in readiness to grant him the interview which he appointed a few days hence. My brother soon after took possession of me, and we retired to private apartments, and talked over the past in that same bright sitting-room, where the earl had spent the last rational evening of his life. "Do you know much of that intrusive intermeddler?" asked my brother, as we sat tete-d-tete at our simple dinner. "His name was frequently on my father's lips, in the early days of his illness, but I never saw him until to- day."   A  NEW GUARDIAN APPEARS.     247 "Hie made an appointment with you, did he not, that he might Push his impertinent investigations still further?" "I agrepd to receive him, after Sunday, but really, Veron, I would scarcely call him impertinent. He is per- suaded that lhe has a certain duty to perform, and we should not shrink from, giving him every satisfaction, whatever our own convictions may be. I do not think I can aid him in his researches, but I am bound to hear pwhat he would ask." "Tell me, Agnes, in all frankness, what is your own conviction as to the matter?" I paused a moment. "I think-- fear, that our father did execute a later will, for certainly he was much exer- cised upon the provisions of some will, and surely there is nothing in that which we heard to-day to trouble the con- science of a dying man." Veron smiled sadly. "Do you think he felt that he had done justice to that daughter of whose ministry he sent so glowing an account to India? It is that injustice, pos- sibly, for whichh he wished to atone. I only want to know one thing, and I am sure you will answer frankly and fearlessly.  Do you desire that another will should be produced?" "Indeed I do not. I should bitterly deplore any such change in my father's views as I know would be indicated had he carried out his threats."u "What were those threats, Agnes? Fear not to open your whole confidence to me. If my father thought me so unworthy to inherit what he had to bequeath, I am not sure that I care to profit by an accident which prevented lis carrying out hIis threats. What did he propose to do, to punish me still more? How did he purpose to cdd to the wretchedness and misery of Whiich he was the luthor?"w   248       BROCKLEY MOOR. "My dear brother, why will you' pursue so painful a theme, and force me to revive passages in our own and our father's life, which it is wiser to bury with him? Whatever his mistakes-his crimes, if you will--he bit- terly expiated them, and the struggle in which he went down to the grave wa4 to do justice to all, and yet save the proud name of his house. You were dearer than life to him; alas! I fear, even than honor, and let me implore you not to revive your hard and merciless judgments against our departed parent. That God had mercy on him and touched his heart with repentance, and a desire to atone for a wicked past, I firmly believe. In this room, seated where you are now, a few hours only before that summons came which called him to weary years of torture, and dying by inches, I had glimpses of a repentant soul; and a heart yearning to atone for the sins of a lifetime, and grateful-so grateful!-for the very shreds of human love and sympathy which, blessed be God, it was mine to offer, and to prove by no ordinary test. As reason grew dim, and intelligence became obscured, what was the desire and cry that mastered his physical helplessness and the acute ach- ing of brain and body? Was it not the outcry of the pa- ternal heart: 'My son! My son! Would to God I could die for thee ' And, Veron, I think sometimes that he did die for you-that is, the great agony of mind through which he passed when he lost his countess, and fancied that he had lost you, too-in a worse and crueler mode than death- brought on that fatal complication of mental and physical malady." "But, surely, I am not responsible. Who but him- self-" "Please, my brother," I interrupted, " let us not revive the bitter story. No one dreams you are responsible. I only implore you to believe me that never was a son so   A  vNEW GUARDIAN APPEI1TAS.     249 idolized, nor a father more ready to sacrifice every thing for a son." "And my mother, what of her last days, of which suchl mysterious whispers came from the castle? But for you- and, Agnes, don't think my heart. is turned to stone tow- ard you-who would have cheered and comforted that broken heart? Look now at her deserted roomsj and do they not yet tell this story of isolation and neglect? I walked through them yesterday, and both hearl and spirit failed as I gazed upon those familiar objects, and fancied what life must have been to her, before you came here with your wondrous power to bless and beguile. She wrote to me, week after week, and her praises of the late-found daughter filled many a page. She said you-were all she had of love and kindliness in the old home. Ah! she lit- tie knew how she fanned the flame that was consuming me, nor the madness each word sent to a fevered brain. Do not turn away, Agnes; that is all over now. The infatu- ation is gone, the crime has been expiated by the rooting up of all that is loving and trusting in this embittered soul. Yet you ask me to bless my father's memory. I rushed as few have done before to receive his blessing, and to crave his forgiveness for unfilial neglect, but only that the letter of duty might be accomplished. I shall go down to my grave, unblessed, unloved, and unloving--a living witness to the truth of the second commandment, which visits the sins of the father upon the unoffending children to the third and fourth generation. I take a mel- ancholy satisfaction in recalling the fact that I amn the last of the cursed generation, and that the next Earl of Dur reigh will be so far removed from the present line that a blessing may return upon the venerable house." But fou will not tell me, Vcron, that you propose to be a faithless steward; that with all these lands and riches,   250      BROCIGLEY fMOOR. with that long list of cottagers and retainers, with your rare gifts of intellect and mental accomplishments, you are to wield no influence in this realm? You surely do not intend to continue your life of expatriation and aimless wandering? These loyal hearts and honest souls have been too long without their rightful leader; and all eyes have been strained to see the young earl, and every heart is hoping for some slight indication of the better days which have almost become a tradition at the castle. Your mother went to her grave blessed and blessing. Can you not recall the long train of sincere mourners that fol- lowed her to her last abode? Not one but had a blessing for her memory, and whose lot is a little worse that she is no longer here with her ready sympathy and still more ready aid. Good works have languished since that day; and the heir of Durreigh, if he would not stand convicted, when with that sainted mother he is called to give his own account of stewardship, must complete the work which has been bequeathed to him." Veron sat sadly silent, and I realized how fearfully his better nature had become disintegrated. " Agnes! Agnes! if I had but your clear percep-- tion of duty and your faith to go on in this dreary life." "Life, my brother, is as God sends it to us; our use of it is what we make of privileges and opportunities. My own feelings were not unlike yours, when I was roused to the conviction of my duty. It was once about an equal chance whether I should mope life away in sen- timental repinings over no ordinary disappointment, or start from the shackles which held body and soul. God gave me duties, and, strength to attack them bravely. He has given you duties, less arduous, less painful, and I am sure you will perform them. Perhaps in some things I Inay help you while I am here; but, all things considered,   A NEW V GUARDIAN APPEARS.      251 I have determined to make my llome elsewhere-perhaps with our uncle at Hazle-dell, and perhaps on the sea-shore where-where you once visited me." He grew ghastly pale as lie remarked: "And where a father's curse overtook us. I shudder to think of the place, and should fancy the association would drive you mad!" "Veron, my brother, are you quite honest with your- self? Are you, too, not hugging to your heart sweet mem- ories and gentle associations? Do you realize as an every- day truth our actual relations? Is there not a lurking fas- cination in the voice-a thrill like that which the sound of familiar music inspires, as you bask in a presence, which you prefer not to describe? My uncle--God bless him for it!- once probed my very'soul in this manner, and, in proof of my own sincerity, I wrote those few cold words of invitation to you which you as coldly declined. We had better face the truth, look fairly at our past experience; and if we can, without too much suffering, speak of it, at any rate not avoid it. The love of ouryoung hearts, my brother is among the dead. The beloved of your heart and mine is entombed in a sepulchre-sealed forever. Let us so re- gard the events of that stormy summer morning, whichl was really the funeral of such hopes and joys as the heart never knows a second time. Have we not known miany who wept over the grave of the early loved and lost, and yet were happy in after-life, and made other ties, and launched upon useful and honorable careers? Our lot is not wretched and hopeless. You at least have duties, and if you could only master your recollections of the past, you might yet be happy in other relations." Agnes, the idea is monstrous-blasphemous! I do not believe you think it possible. I am willing to do what my position imposes,.but I do not thirk it will ever force me to take a wife to my bosom, whom I could neither love nor   252       B1ROOKLEY XMOOR. honor, for the sake of gratifying family pride, or giving pleas- ure to a hundred or two dissatisfied tenants and retainers. I tell you that the present line will die with me-and I am happy to give a diversion to the current. If my uncle survive me, he may try to reconcile his worldly and spiritual duties; but he has no son, and the title is sure to go to indirect heritors." And thus this evening wore on, and again midnight found us conversing still. I now have no very agreeable remembrance of our discourse. My brother had hardened under the rod, and there were indications of a stubborn and unforgiving nature, that scarcely recalled the beloved of my youth. As we parted that evening I suggested, with all becoming modesty, that he 'should take the posi- tion of master at once in the household. The earl, up to the day of his illness, had always met his servants and many outside attendants of the .castle, in the great old dining-hall, where the beneficed chaplain read morning and evening prayers; and I believe the custom still obtained. My brother rather reluctantly agreed; and I promised to meet him there at an early hour the following morning, which would be Sunday, and a fitting day to assume his duties as a youthful patriarch. CHAPTER    XIII. CONVALESCENCE. "It is not in the storm, nor in the strife We feel benumbed, and wish to be no more; But in the after-silence on the shore, Where all is lost except a little life." WHO does not know the terrible blank that settles upon life, when a long-enduring duty, ever so painful tlougi   CONVALESCEY'E.        ' 253 it has been, is finally accomplished, and we feel the great reaction that is sure to be experienced after such a long trial  of the powers of endurance. I retired to my bed that night feeling strangely ill. The truth is, I had not been seriously ill for so many years that I did not comprehend my feelings even while I was con- versing with the young earl during the evening. I did not meet him at prayers next morning, nor did I receive the much-agitated Sir William the following day. The truth is, my nervous system had been overtaxed, and, when once reaction commenced, I was soon overmastered. A severe fever seized me, and the usual alarming symptoms succeeded, and for many days there was a struggle for life. My strength of constitution, however, was proof against disease, and at the end of twenty-one days I was pro- nounced out of danger. Convalescence, however, was te- dious, and another three weeks found me just able to drag my poor, wasted body to the sitting-rodm, where my brother was waiting with a pale and anxious face to receive me, and to arrange my pillows and wraps on the couch, before the bright fire which had been kindled on the hearth. He tried to be cheerful and to speak gayly, but I could'per.- ceive that his heart was very heavy and oppressed. How I had longed for female companionship in those three weeks of tedious convalescence My cousin Mary had been to see me, but her dutiesat the rectory were too onerous, and her father would scarcely spare her for half a day. He, too, had visited me not unfrequently, and I had dim/ recollec- tions of a silent figure, which glided in and out of my room frequently giving me my medicines, and as often bathing my aching head, and once I remembered that quiet watcher had knelt'at my bedside and touched my burning hand with his cold lips, and methought he uttered some vow or prayer, for I recollect the almost outspoken "Amen!"And   254       BROaKLEY BMOOR. then, as I grew less wild and more ready to recognize the few who bent over me, his watchfulness increased, and while my nurse slept, and often noisily, on her own cot near by, he would watch with almost a mother's sleepless eye and ear. It was generally believed that I could not recover, and when I falsified such predictions and fears and began to sit up and to take an interest in the things of life, I had many lonely hours and moments of hard self-scrutiny. ' For what had my life been spared," I asked, " and whllat work had God in store for me?" The second day that I was in my sitting-room, Sir William's card was brought to me. Veron was with me,. and had been reading aloud. He frowned as I gave him the card, and he said very peremptorily that I ought not to re6eive the visitor and expose myself to a fatiguing and exciting discussion, which might cause a relapse. He did not know that Sir William, through some mistake of the servant, had already been shown up to my rooms, and was waiting in the antechamber, just outside the door, and heard the rather surly remark. He would probably have retired, had not the same blundering servant thrown open the door and announced"Sir William Ashe." I could but turn and with my eyes acknowledge the announcement. I could not rise to receive him. As he entered, Veron would have retired, but I said promptly, "You will not leave me, Veron?" There seemed a strange antagonism between these two men, for, as Veron returned to his chair, the bright and genial light faded from Sir William's face, and a cloud overspread my brother's. The interview seemed likely to expend itself in trite commonplaces and inquiries as to my health, when I thought I lad better bring things to a point, and in spite of Veron's   'uv VALESCENCE C        255 admonitory looks I said: "I presume, Sir Will'am, you have called in relation to that very painful matter we had in contemplation before I fell ill. My brother thinks I am not yet strong enough to attend to any exciting business, and my physician has this morning prescribed change of residence for me, as I gain too slowly. If you will oblige me, therefore, with your address, I will communicate with you as soon as I am able." "Bless your dear soul! You need not be so ceremonious with me. I am more than half your guardian/now, and it will not be my fault if I do not prove my entire claim be- fore long." There was an imperturbable coolness in his manner, which took all offense from his too familiar words, and I smiled in spite of the growing wrath which I saw kindling on my brother's brow. "Well, sir," he replied, in a manner which recalled his father too vividly, " urtil you establish that claim, you will please to remember that our father committed my sister and her interests to my care. I must insist that she be a great deal stronger than you now see her before she is troubled with any business discussion. As my father's friend you are welcome to the castle, but you must see that Lady Agnes is much too feeble to be harassed by such very painful reminders." "Be assured, young man, that Lady Agnes is quite safe in my hands, and I wait simply her pleasure to pursue a duty which I trust may have no. painful consequences to her, at least." Again he pressed my hand. "Iow thin these fingers hlave become since I held them six or seven weeks ago! How very ill you must have been! That comes, I suppose, from nursing my old friend all those years without a human soul to aid you by word or deed. Egad, if I had known as   256       BIWUI' KLY .i4 UIU. much as I do now, there would have been one pair of hands that was not hired to help you in your ill-paid labor of love I Where are you going now? To the sea-shore, I hope? This gloomy old house is enough to give any one the horrors; though it is cheerful here, to be sure, no thanks, I fancy, to the place." Turning to Veron, he asked, "Do you accompany Lady Agnes to the sea-shore? If not, I must offer my escort." "We have formed no plans," responded the young earl. The accumulated dignity and hauteur of the whole race of Durrcighs since the creation were pictured in his manner, as he added," When my sister has decided upon her move- ments, I will take care that she has proper protection and escort." I began to fear a collision, and tried to laugh, as I said, You are both forgetting I am nearly thirty, with a silvered head and an experience of life that would make me sixty, if life were counted by such proofs." Veron was softened, and he came to my side, and took timidly the hand that the baronet had held. "Dear, sweet sister, we will never forget that those experiences which have aged you have given you the most tender claims to our solicitous regard. God grant that the years yet to be  vouchsafed to you may'be brighter than the past!" and with unaffected reverence he bowed over me and touched his lips to my brow. Sir William seized his hand, and the hardy old India- man spoke in a husky voice: 'You are your father's own son, my young lord, but beware of the shoals upon which he wrecked his happiness, and others, too, for that matter.  We must be good friends, and you must not give me such a d porcupine reception when we meet again. But we are talk- b ing too much before this young lady, who is all of a shiver cl with something."   JJ*vua1-jfr T JSJSAU AGAIN.    257 And thus it came to pass that I went to the sea-shore, and to Brocldey, where beautiful villas had been erected; and where all traces of my old home had long ago van- ished; and where a'new fashionable sort of a walk, called, in those days, an esplanade, had succeeded the wild and. rugged path along the beach. Still, there was the same boundless, chainless sea, upon which I had so often gazed in fascinated indifference to all other things. There seemed to be a spot, just bounded by the horizon, which had wit- nessed that mysterious midnight sepulture, and certainly the air had a vivifying power upon that coast which I have never found elsewhere. Here, too, was the tragic scene of my father's shipwreck and the romance of his youth. Here was woven that net-work of circumstances which inclosed so much of stirring dramatic history, stretching from this once dreary moor to the proud castellated halls of the Durreigh earldom. Health and strength rapidly returned to me with this invigorating clime; and when I had been there a few days -not more than ten-I sent the promised word to my would-be guardian, and, before the mail returned, an answer was anticipated by the arrival of the impatient friend in proper person. CHAPTER XIV. nBROCIE        BBEACH AGAIN. THE dreaded interview with Sir William passed off without the injury to my health which my brother pre- dicted, but not without creating a strong bond of union between the good baronet and myself.. In fact, at the close of the discussion he had arrived pretty nearly at the whole truth.  258.      BROC1 LEY MOOR. After making accurate notes of dates, and careful ob- servation of incidents which seemed in themselves very trifling, he questioned me as follows, not without much re- gard for my own feelings, and greatly deprecating his apparent intrusiveness into family secrets: "Fancy, now, my dear young lady, that I am your uncle, or your acknowledged guardian, or, just what I am, a true and loyal friend, ready to go to the ends of the earth to serve you. Now tell me, if you know, when the -the connection-the relations-well, when the earl was shipwrecked and nursed into health again by your mother?" I replied as nearly as I knew, quickly recalling my moth- er's letter to guide me. "And when was he supposed to marry the late count- ess?" That, too, I could tell. "Four years after he was stranded." "I see it all, Agnes. I have suspected as much'for some time. But how, in Heaven's name, could a man be so mad-so infatuated? Your father-" Remember, Sir William, you speak of my father." "Yes, Agnes, and my friend too, in whose honor I im- plicitly trusted-yea, and would have pledged my own soul, too, in that faith. He wrote nothing to me of that early episode, more than to tell of the narrow escape and his subsequent illness. Some years later he informed me of his happy marriage, and the birth of his son and heir; but, until that last letter which has brought me thus before you, he never alluded to a daughter, and I never had any other thought than that every thing was right, and you were a young sister of the heir. Now, if I am to serve you in this matter and avoid useless publicity, you must tell me just what amount of knowledge you possess. I have already a pretty clear insight into many mysteries.   BROa KLE  BIEACH AGAIN.      259 I perfectly see now why the young earl, forsooth, does not care to have any later will produced." "Nay, Sir William, you grossly wrong my brother. He has not the faintest suspicion of the truth, and it is to spare him the wretched knowledge that I hope, as I hope for sal- vation, that no further light may be shed upon this subject." "But, do you know, by the terms of the entail, if the carls marriage to your mother is proved, you are the heir- ess; nay, at this very momcnt you should be the actual possessor of titles, lands, and all in which that proud youth now glories." "I know all this, Sir William." He regarded me closely. "Suppose, for a moment, that I so thoroughly investigate this matter, which has only slumbered so long because there was no one to rouse it, and produce such proofs as the Court of Chancery itself would accept, would you not then feel bound to claim your rights?" "And proclaim my brother, to whom I have, already, innocently been the occasion of such suffering as not many hearts ever dream of-proclaim him a disinherited outcast? Declare that his mother, whose soul was as pure as an angel's, was a dishonored woman, with no title to rest, even in death, beside the earl whose name she bore, whose home she adorned with her matchless grace, and whose people she blessed with her ministry of love and pious zeal? Never, Sir William, shall it be mine to invoke such woe upon my much-suffering brother, nor such memorials of my departed, penitent father? If God, in his wisdom, over- rule my hopes and desires, I can but submit; but I pray that I may not be the instrument that causes the flame and torture. I have learned to bear the cross for myself in meek submission. My own sainted mother, long ago, went where there is neither marrying, nor giving in marriage,   260       BROQKLEY MOOR. and it now only rests between my brother and myself. You will not, I am sure you will not, turn one stone to ac- complish this object. I know that I am speaking language which, if my father could hear, he would oppose-language which is the sequel of my mother's last farewell, and the burden of her pious legacy to me; and, my good Sir Wil- liam, you have inspired me with confidence: I am sure I can trust to your friendship that you will not jeopardize the peace which seems likely to be vouchsafed to the long- chastened children of your friend." He grasped my hand, which was cold and trembling. "Let this be my mission, so long as the good Lord spares me life and strength, to watch, and guard as a precious leg- acy, the happiness and desires of my friend's last-born. A coronet would not add to the nobleness of this fair brow, nor all the lands of Durreigh and every other earldom of the realm! I am not much given to say fine things, and language is not ready, but I can say that I never imagined that there were such nobleness and unselfishness left in this miserable world. The only pity is, that the churl of a brother, who stands between you and this world's honor, could not know how much he owes to you. But, for me, your will is law. Whatever you wish, if it lies within my power, you have but to command. There are not many women in India, and a very few of them arc ladies. So it is refreshing to an old wanderer to come home after five and-twenty years of absence and go at once into the Gar- den of Eden." "And find a lady there?"I rejoined, laughingly. "Find an ANGEL there!" shouted my zealous advocate. "And now, Sir William, that we thoroughly under- stand each other on this matter, let me ask you if you have ever heard of the great trials through which the young earl and I have passed? Perhaps after you have heard   BROOCKLEY BEACH AGAIN.       261 the whole story, you may have more sympathy for my brother, and be able to counsel me more wisely as to my future movements." I then went briefly but unflinchingly through the pain- ful story, little dreaming, as I commenced the bitter narra tive, how its revival would stir my own spirit to the very depths, blanching my cheeks and enfeebling my voice. Strange to say, the story had not reaohed his ear, and it came to him with the fascination of a spell. His honest heart paid its tribute; and he beautifully acknowledged the confidence which the communication declared me to have in his judgment and generosity. "My poor girl," he said, with a voice full of emotion "I do not wonder your father's reason left him. But, after all, it could have been so much worse. How merciful you are to his memory! I feel now that I could rush to your brother and ask his pardon for all the ugly thoughts I had toward him. I don't believe he is half cured yet; and, to tell the truth, I said to myself when he was scowling and growling at me the other day, 'Why, he goes on like a jealous lover, who can't bear any one to look at his lady.' I do pity him. I do not wonder, I am sure, that he is bit- ter against the whole world: then, too, it is something to have suffered for. I can almost envy him. But you can count upon me, dear Lady Agnes; I am more your servant than before." "Be but my faithful friend. I fear sometimes that this small cloud like a man's hand, in the west, may overspread the horizon, which now seems cleared by many a storm and tempest. I have few in whom I could find comfort in any new distress, and I rejoice to know that a course of extraordinary occurrences has brought forth a friend to whom I may hereafter turn in full confidence." "God bless you, Lady Agnes, for such words!- Much   262       BROCKLEY MOOR. as I would like to prove their truth, I pray that sorrow for you may not be the price of their justification: And now, as to your doings: do you return to the castle, and when?" "For the present my home is here; should my brother need me, I am ready to go to him. At the same time, I think it is better for him to grapple with the duties and difficulties of his inheritance, and to realize the responsi- bilities of his position. Perhaps in time they will fill up the chasm that lies between him and satisfaction in life. At any rate, just now I can be of very little service to him, and my presence is a perpetual reminder of lost joys and past sorrows; but I myself must have wholesome occupa- tion and well-defined duties, and I am only waiting to be quite well again, to cast around for some systematic occu- pation. I suppose my brother would think it compromis- ing my station if I undertook any work which involved contact with the grosser elements of life, or I would start at once a small orphanage, and devote myself to the care of a few motherless little ones. I love children, not sen timentally, and only those with clean faces and spotless pinafores-but really and truly, as Christ teaches us to love them-sweet, pure little spirits, so much nearer truth and heaven than we! Then, too, I have what is called natural aptitude for teaching; and withal some experience. I never yet saw a child so dull that I could not interest it, nor so stubborn that I could not find a way to its heart, and command its obedience. But you smile, Sir-William; pray do not forget I have outlived the years in which young girls love to talk in this strain." "Nay, dear lady, if I smiled, it was the secret satisfac- tion of my heart that showed itself. You are more and more of an enigma to me; you not only waive your claims, which you will not even permit me to describe, but you would voluntarily undertake a drudgery from which many   BROCKLEY BEACH AGAIN.       263 a low mind and necessitous body turns in disgust. Dear Lady--" "Oblige me, my friend, by a simpler title. To you I would be Agnes, simply. The high-sounding prefix has never pleased me, and I accepted it for the certain sort of satisfaction it seemed to afford my father, who, perhaps, regarded it as a kind of amende honorable or public atone- ment. But I interrupted you," "I was about to say that there is a good-work for some kind, Christian heart; perhaps it mayt fall in with your own wishes, and give you the distraction and occupation you desire, while satisfying that hunger for charitable deeds which seems so insatiable in your heart. At least, let me tell you the story." His earnestness moved me as he went on to narrate that the day previous he had met an army officer, whom he had formerly known slightly in India. This gentleman he found to be in great trouble to find a suitable home for two young niecesi to whom he was tenderly attached. Their mother had died in India in the father's absence, who had strangely disappeared long before; and thus the children were left to his protection until some certain tidings could be obtained of the father's fate. A little property belong- ing to the children had also been left to his management, and it was enough to provide modestly for their wants. He desired to return at once to India, as soon as he could place his nieces under proper care. Sir William had been so deeply touched by the. story, and the sweet, sad faces of the children, whom he had afterward seen; that, when I intimated my wish for the distraction of some good work, the kind-hearted baronet felt that he had found the needed friend for the motherless little ones. After some conver- sation I felt drawn to entertain the suggestion, and con- sented to allow Sir William to follow up the matter, and,   BR OCKLEY MO OR. 264 if upon further information he felt assured of the state of things as they now appeared, I authorized him to bring h  friend with the children to see me. He left me full of happiness, and within a week reappeared within my quiet lodgings, accompanied by the uncle and nieces. The for- mer he introduced as Colonel Gillespie, a gentleman of high breeding, who lost no time in gracefully acknowl- edging  the kindness that had permitted him to hope through his friend that his nieces might find my protection a good fortune such as he had not dared to hope for them and which would be of the deepest comfort to him under the necessity of removing himself so far from them. I to the neesity Ofpetebih ydered to the ch    ^. thanked him; but my eyes had wandered to the children, vhose sad countenances an gntle manners were pleading more powerfully than the uncle'swords. drew themto me, and their grave answers to my questions had none of' the joy of childhood in them. After satisfying myself as to the high respectability of the parties, I said I was dis- posed to receive the children, but could undertake no in- definite engageent toward the. Duties prior to all others might require my undivided attention, and leave me no aleisure for a chare so responible This contingenc did not asppear to alarm either Colonel Gillesie or ir William. The former was willing to incur the chance, and the kind baronet undertook to find other protection for the children should circumstances oblige me to part with them before uncle r father should claim them, and also consent-  ed to act as their banker for such expense as I might in- dicate as necessary, and in all matters represent their uncle in England. This relieved me of all embarrassment in ac- cepting the charge, to which my heart was already yearn- ing, as the children, drawn by some magnetism, were nes- 'ting close to me. When all was clearly understood and noted down by Sir Williami, Colonel Gillespie rose to take noted do   A WEARY HEART.         265 leave, and with deep emotion thanked me for an act that had removed so much anxiety from his heart, and begged me to be assured how deeply sensible he was of the high motives which alone had secured to him and to his nieces the rare good fortune. Sir William was as much overjoyed at the happy arrangement as if the children had been his own. The gentlemen departed, and left me with my new and interesting charge. I took them at once for a stroll upon Brockley beach, soon making them forget how re- cently we had been strangers. The elder, Alice, was twelve, and the fair, golden-haired Bessie was ten when they were left to me. Both were of gentle nature, but equally tinged with sorrow and subdued in manner. This I trusted to dissipate by the growing confidence and hap- pier influences of their new life. They appeared to un- derstand little about the changes that had brought them to me; they knew their mother was dead, and Alice remem- bered her death. Of their father their recollections were more vague, and their ideas more confused. Their uncle had not talked with them upon these matters, and they only partially comprehended their position. With me all reserve soon vanished, and the natural buoyancy of child- hood returned to enable them to find all the happiness their new circumstances could afford them. Sir William was faithful to his trust; and I received a courteous note of reiterated thanks from Colonel Gillespie on the eve of his sailing for India. CHAPTER XV. A WEARY HEART. I HAD been alone three months at Brockley, and the approach of cold winds and wintry storms had scattered the gay groups which were now congregated to enliven the 12   266 BROCKLEY MOOR. deserted shore, and I, too, began to think it might be as well for me to seek with the children some more genial spot, especially as 1 had never grown quite so Strong as formerly, sie my illness after the earl's death. ormerly, ince this stateof ind, my brother unexpectedly hvisite in tis mucateshocked by the change in his ap- visited me. I was much and pale, looking as haggard as peathough he had not slept for a month, and seemed to have lost all interest in life e He came, he said, to take leave of me. His existence at the castle was insupportable, he told me. o a soul o speak to, and only the echo of his own footsteps for com- pany. The steward, he sad, knew better than he how to manage the estate, and to take care of the interests of the people. He had evidenlybeen very miserable, nd I sent the little Gillespies off upon a walk with their maid, while erlitle^ es^ ^ ^ and a better sTate o I sought to bring him over to reason feel"I wish I could die  burst from hia overcharged heart, as he bowed upon his hands, just as I had seen the hearlt, as his faoe. "Agnes, you are a mystery to me. I earl bury hbs face. 1  ..  tenderness in your heart. know there are untold depths of tendees in r hert. You are less strong in frame, and long-suffering should have enfeebled your powers of endurance, and yet I find you cheerful, almost gay, voluntarily assuming a burden o care and anxiety, while Icannot face my duties. Iwould um my back forever upon every association of the past; nay, I would rejoice to die!" "Sidney, dear brother, have you ever watched the course of the wild tempest, as it rushes on, carrying away all that resists it? Have you not seen the proud centen- nial oak laid prostrate by the same gale which left the fril reed standing? Have you not learned that God's probvi dence is irresistible? If we bow before it like the bendina   A WEARY HRA7T1',        267 rush, it passes over our heads, and we may again stand erect and look upon God's beautiful creation; but if in our majesty of purpose or in defiance of that will, we find ourselves in conflict with overwhelming force, we are up- rooted and prostrated like the proud forest-tree by the tor- nado? Have not our trials, my brother, been the same? I know the bitterness of my own, and the weakness of my faith, but from first to last this has been my prayer, 'Thy will be done.' Until now I can say, with one sweet singer: 'Nearer my God, to Thee! Hear Thou my prayer; E'en though a heavy- cross fainting I bear, Still all my prayer shall beo, Nearer, my God, to Thee; nearer to Thee!' When the heart thus lifts itself, it matters very little whether our way lies through smooth paths and green vales, or amid thorns, and over rocks on the steep moun- tain-side." "I feel all this, Agnes, when I am with you. The very atmosphere seems then refined and purified of earthly taint; but when alone all is changed. I cannot see why such trials have been imposed upon us. Why am I to carry to my unhonored grave the curse of a father's iniquity -crippled in my powers of usefulness-dwarfed in my mental growth-and blighted miserably and hopelessly in the purest and holiest sentiments of the heart? I ask you, what is life to me? I would give this moment my proud name-my ancient lineage-mylands and wealth, to have the lot of other men-to shake off the recollection of this cursed past; I would change places with any honest man, into whose hard-worked hands I would commit the gold which has come to me, with the heritage of a curse. A man can go the grave of his buried hopes and loves, and recall hours whose recollection is a thrill of joy, and, in con-   268      BROCKLEY MOOR. ning them over, he asks nothing' brighter in the future. But for me, if I disentomb the past, I reveal a hideous, monstrous, pursuing form, which may not be indulged it- self, nor yet will it give me rest, that I may invest the future with any sort of charm or form of loveliness. Its unhallowed, unsanctified, unbidden presence is always haunting me, and, sleeping or waking, a phantom is be- side me." "I repeat, in spite of all this, Sidney, your cure is in work-but, not until God blesses the work, will it bring you peace; and God will not bless it until you ask Him earnestly and constantly to do so. The struggle is a hard one, harder for man than woman, because we naturally yield sooner, and, when one support is taken from us, we involuntarily turn to another. God always gives us some- thing to lean upon, just as the tender creeper in the woods is furnished with that to which it .may cling. Like that, we grovel on the earth and wind the tendrils of our hearts around the objects which never lift their heads above the clay, until we find the protecting arm, which, like the sturdy tree, lifts us from earth and we clasp tightly our heavenward support. How long sometimes we are learning to cling to God himself! How often we see one mortal prop after an- other fall away, carrying us back to earth, before we seize that aid which will never fail us, as we mount to the skies. Dear Sidney, how little we realize the nothingness of human life, at most but a span, and so much of that span spent in the helplessness of infancy or the infirmities of old age! And what are your titles, and your rank, and your riches, after the longest life is told? You here see the beggar in Abraham's bosom, and the rich man craving the charity of the once ragged suppliant, as he is told that he had his measure of good things in his lifetime. We will all go, so soon, where it little matters what has gone on in our ,A   A WIEARY E AR 2T6 269 outward estates here! Even before we are lifted from men's eyes, we become a pitiful spectacle in our utter help- lessnress. How soon would those who have loved us best loathe the very atmosphere that surrounds us if e were long left before them'! And then beyond it all, that golden city, that heavenly Jerusalem I N tears, no sorrows, no disappointments A kingdom without end! A crow for all who have borne the cross!" I must have grown very earnest, for Veron never forgot my words; long after he recalled that interview, and per- haps it was then he began to struggle for that self-mastery hich, blessed be God, brought its own sweet recodene to us bothpense And then we walked toward the shore, where I was sure to meet my young charges, and, before we returned to our quiet abiding place it was agreed that we should all go to the castle and try to drive out some of the ghosts which were hauntina the young earl. The gentle patter of young feet and the gay laughter of young hearts have a power of exorcism to which those shadowy apparitions very readily'yield. And thus it was my visit to Brockley beach was brouglht to its term,and with a formidable array of benches and boxes, servants and children, I returned to the ancestral shades with a lighter heart, braver in purpose, and strong- er in spirit, than I supposed I should ever be again in life. My arrival thus en famill necessitated ood many changes, consider  ab rf .-.     a good many langes, considerablc refur, ng, and a rather great modi- fication of old rooms. In fact, we spread ourselves over the whole wing of the castle, where the kindly heart of the late lady had installed me in so royal a state. To these rooms I encouraged my brother to o: ^   To h roms encoured my broher to become a frequent visitor. I consulted him freely pon my educational schemes. I in.   270      BROCKLE Y MOOR. ducted him in the mysteries of youthful amusements and recreation, and even induced him to take part in our little musical entertainments, and, after much entreaty, he was at last persuaded to accompany the girls in their simple bal- lads or plaintive hymns. Little by little he seemed to be won back to human sympathy, and to feel that he was not an outcast of the human family, and an exile from God's love and protection. Again, as in old times, the household assembled night and morning in the spacious old banqueting-hall, and recognized, in short but impressive prayer and praise, "the God who ruleth over castle and cottage." And thus the winter rolled away, and we had scarcely felt its length and dreariness. Once more the pale primroses were blooming far and wide, and the breath of the violet was rising like sweet incense to heaven from many a shady nook, and we began to hope that sweet peace might again take up its abode in our sorely-smitten hearts. I had, however, one secret source of anxiety. I could not disguise from myself the fact that Veron's health was steadily failing, and I began to fear that those weaknesses which, in earlier days, had carried him to milder climates, were assuming a chronic form. He complained of sleepless nights and unrefreshed awakenings. His cheeks became sunken, and a hollow cough haunted me like the ghosts we had dispelled, and I rejoiced when the spring returned, and he no longer went dashing through mist and sleet, in wind and storm, along the miles of bridle-roads which wound in almost endless combination through the old park. He did not stop to look whether it was fair or foul, or whether his painful cough did not exact a little more caution than usual. And so through the summer, he would drive on through the burning sun, and then stop to refresh himself by some rip- pling brook or in some dark-shaded vale, which was only   MY CHAERGE CONTINUES.      27 tempting because it chilled the'over-heated blood. The summer heats were yielding to lengthening nights and autumn dews, when we all migrated once more to the dear old sea-shore. This time we had lured my brother, too, or rather he did not care to tarry alone in the castle from which all sunlight would fade when the tripping feet and merry voices of the children should be no more heard vithin its renovated walls. CHAPTER XVI. MY CIARIGE CONTINUES. WINTER had fairly overtaken us in our sea-side retreat, and still no one had proposed to return to the castle. I saw in my brother's heart a shrinking from life in the old hall, and oh! why disguise the truth, every day growing more painfully evident? his body sympathized with his mind, and he craved nothing but rest. My own conviction was very clear that he should not winter in England, and yet I scarcely dared to propose his departure to a warmer and sunnier climate. Happily I was saved the necessity. The medical men advised the step, and I lost no time in the needful preparations. But the embarrassment I had foreseen as possible in reference to my young charges now occurred. We had heard but twice from Colonel Gillespie since his return to India, but the letters had brought no tidings of the missing father, and the uncle appeared more and more to regard the children as his own, and to begin to look forward to a retirement from the service and a home in his own country, where he could de- vote himself to the present duties of his guardianship. But a long period had elapsed since his last letter, and I had to   272       BROCKLEY MOOOR. choose between leaving the dear children to the oversight of Sir William Ashe or adding them to our traveling-party. After much reflection and conference with Sir William, and with the cordial approval of Veron, I followed the bias of my feelings, and chose the latter course. A governess was found to whose especial care the children were com- mitted, that I might be free to nurse my brother, while their studies went on uninterruptedly. Sir William under- took to ascertain the causes of Colonel Gillespie's silence, and explain the movements of the children. A fortnight later found us on our way to the south of Europe, and my brother soon rallied under the influences of a milder climate. He came, indeed, to regard himself so much reestablished in strength, that in a moment of impru- dence he agreed to join some friends in a trip of a few days to Naples. But the season of the year was not very favorable, and a malarious fever was almost epidemic. Some sudden change from heat to cold sent a death-chill through his sensitive frame, and he dragged his weary body to our tem- porary abiding-place, and went through the horrors of an Italian fever. Strange to say, he lived through it and reached the period of convalescence, which called forth my greatest powers of nursing and watching. He did not, however, regain his strength; and it was only by the most assiduous care that he was saved from a relapse, which would have been speedily fatal. The long, sad winter drew to its close, and we turned our way homeward. "Dear, blessed Old England! The very sight of its cliffs gives me new life," exclaimed Veron as we approached the coast of Dover. The effect seemed magical, and, as we drove through lanes, whose banks were glowing with primroses and the sweet flowers of early spring, he grew enthusiastic; and when, after several days' weary posting, we halted be-   [- OJA R GE COSNTINUE       2 fore our ancestral gates, he forgot his griefs, uncovered his head, and seemed overwhelmed with feeling. The cottagers and tenants had'turned out in large num- bers to welcome their returning lord, and the castle-bells were ringing joyously. We were quite unprepared for such a demonstration; but when I spied our good friend Sir William at the' entrance, well mounted and beaming with satisfaction, I knew to whose loving instrumentality we owed all this. Not far from him stood our uncle and my bright Cousin Mary, now a lovely woman. Veron was unfeignedly pleased at such a welcme, and his pale cheek flushed as he returned the recognitions and answered the oft-repeated inquiries as to his health. The morrow proved that all this excitement was more than his enfeebled frame could stand, and lie did not leave his bed, nor did he for many days assume his place as head of the household. As soon as possible, however,  ert hiself s never had he done before in behalf of his tenantry. He insisted Upon giving them a banquet, and May-day was chosen. He appeared several times among the happy groups who gathered in various plsces; and with his own pale hands he put the wreath on the head of the pretty village maiden who had been unanimously chosen queen of the May. I watched him as a mother would her little one, that he did ndt over-exert imself, and long before the sun was set I had him safely housed, and from a closed window he watched their simple amusements and heard their gay shouts of laughter; and he thus inaugurated a happy sympathy between himseilf and his too-long-negleted people.   274       BROCKLEY MOOR. CHAPTER XVII. THE SEED WAS PLANTED. "'Tis sweet, as year by year we lose Friends out of sight, in faith to muse How grows in paradise our store." AND thus my story approaches its conclusion. To para- dise my faithful eye must turn, to the grave my memory must leap, for over its dark clods I have had comfort from the Lord. Myself almost an alien from the birthright, yet it had been given to me to cheer and watch the declining days of all to whom I had been bound by any tie of blood. Thus I assumed my post, and this time watched the de- stroyer approach with slow and stealthy step. Day by day Veron became more feeble. His brow grew more pallid and calm, his form more emaciated, while his eye became daily brighter, and the hectic burned upon ,his pale cheek. No murmurings nor any expression of suffering ever escaped him, nor yet, alas! a word by which I could be assured that he was conscious of the darkness that was gathering around his earthly days, nor that he realized how steadily he was descending the steep hill at whose foot lay the dark valley. I shrank in agony from the thought that he should pass on to another existence as he would fall to sleep, and after many conflicts with self I summoned up courage to ask him one day if he thought he should ever be well again. He started almost to his feet, assuring me that he was not ill  -that he was only still feeble from the effects of the fever of the past year, and that when summer came he should be quite well again. I was silent, and he repeated his convic-   THE SEED WAS PLANT ED       25. tion that he should be soon all right. Still there was an expression of questioning anxiety upon his face which I did not seek to dispel. The seed was planted. Alas, it was bitter, and rankled in his heart! Several days later he asked me if I did not see how much he had improved, for he felt so much better. I tried to speak cheerfully; and I think he was half vexed that I did not sustain him in his hope, for he bade me be more sensible, and not allow my affectionate anxiety to carry away my better judgment. "Dear brother," I replied, " my only anxiety is that you should realize the truth, and be prepared for the dread change." He said nothing for some moments, but after a painful conflict with himself he assured me that nothing ailed him -he had no alarming cough, no symptom of disease, no pain, and could make no complaint, except perhaps of great lassitude. I asked him wherefore that lassitude. "O Agnes, surely one does not recover at once from the effects of such a fever as I have had. If nothing new be- falls me, believe me that, a year hence, we will laugh at these fancies that are now tormenting you." I said no more. I only prayed that Heaven would open his eyes, and spare him until his heart was ready to obey the summons to depart. He evidently exerted himself to dispel my fears, no less, perchance, to assure himself of his strength; for after our conversation she would rise from his couch, and, wrapping himself in a thick cloak, go forth, leaning upon his stout cane, and after a very short stroll would return pale and breathless, yet declaring himself feel- ing much better. And thus pool Vcron went down, step by step. There caen a day when the sunbenams did not warm; the staff no   BR O0KLEY -MOOR. longer supported, nor my frail arm guided. Then came long hours of weary imprisonment before the fire that could not impart its heat, so cold seemed that thin glass between him and that living world through which le never more should walk. But, still he hoped on, and said when " the spring winds should cease to blow, and summer flowers should bloom," vigor might return to his system. Before April's birds were singing, none but a recumbent position could rest his weary frame, and then he mourned that his long confinement to the house had robbed him of all pow- ers of endurance. The summer came, and, the casement of his window open, the perfume of flowers was borne upon every breeze, and luxuriant vases adorned his room; but they brought no strength nor refreshment to him. The color deepened on his cheek, which but for that hectic spot would have vied in whiteness with the snowy linen upon which his head was pillowed. He held the transparent hand before him, and traced each pale-blue vein, and said that he feared he was ill, but thought it strange that it could be so, since he suffered so little. I could not deceive him. I knelt at hisbedside. I prayed with all the fervor of my soul that God would spare him yet a little while and prepare his heart in mercy to pass on to a better world.' The flowers of summer were fading, the roses long since withered, and now and then a cool wind and a gusty night reminded us that " the year hence " of his prophecies was nearly accomplished, and he was failing with increasing rapidity.   PALLING LEAVES.     2"   CHAPTER    XVIII. FALtLNG LEAVES. "DEAR AGNES, a twelvemonth since I hoped ere this to be among my people again, but your vision was clearer than mine, and you believed otherwise. And why should we wish it otherwise? Life is not so bright, and the mist that hangs over my blank future no sunbeam can ever penetrate. O sister, sister, how much I owe to your minis- try, that you have led me thus on, until now I can calmly look upon this beautiful world and scarcely sigh when I think that I shall never see these fair buds of 'spring nor those dreary scenes restored to verdure I There are some matters which I would like to arrange while I have strength, and they are of concern to you. Whatever I can bequeath, I would commit to your keeping. The castle, alas! must go to my uncle, but he will not deprive you of the right to dwell in it so long as ie lives; and it would be a joy to think of your completing the many unaccomplished tasks I had set to myself. I would like to see our father's good old solicitor, and with his help I will do justice to one to whom I would leave every thing were it in my power." And thus it was determined that his worldly affirs should be arranged, and then' dismissed from his thoughts forever. I listened to his many plans and schemes, dis- cussed with him the character and amount of certain lega- cies, permitted him to devote to me his own estates in Devonshire, which he had himself inherited by bequest from some one of his mother's family, and consented to re- ceive any thing which by right or usage should go with tlhe old estate. . Sir William Ashe would be his executor in conjunction with a young clergyman who had now charge   278      BROCKLEY MOOR. of the parish church, which, being just outside the gates of the park, enabled him also to act as chaplain at the castle. Among the good works to which my brother had earnestly devoted himself, was the restoration and beautifying of the ancient parish church. A man of living faith had been ap- pointed to the rectorship, and the church was open for the refreshment of pious pilgrims throughout the day, and its sweet chimes rang out morning and evening its call to prayer. Happy for Veron that such a man was at hand to guide his tottering feet I Happy, too, for me that my poor weak efforts were so blessedly sustained; and in the hours of mourning a true apostle was beside me to encourage and console. Good old Mr. Knowall, who seemed to have grown more faithful to the house in his declining years, had made two or three visits to my brother, and had drawn up a will, which seemed as satisfactory to the old gentleman as it was to my brother. Nothing but the signature was needed, and the morning was appointed upon which the important document was to be executed. Veron, wishing to give the matter as much importance as possible, desired to have the final signatures put to the paper in the old library, where it was supposed the earls were wont'to sign and seal their last testaments. It was a sad sight to see that wasted form hovering over the bright fire which warmed the huge room, and that trans- parent hand, which trembled as he guided the pen, and yet I never saw a face so lovely, nor an eye which equaled his in far-seeing brightness, as he gazed upon the fire while waiting for the lawyers and witnesses. It occurred to him that he had not seen the family sig- net with wjiich the important papers had all been signed, and I began the search which led to disastrous results.   FALLING LEA VES.        279 We rummaged through old drawers and desks, and finally I discovered my father's much-worn traveling-case- a sort of Indian desk, which folded up like a huge wallet, fastening securely with a spring lock, and affording accom- modation for many letters and much writing material. As I supposed, the seal was safe within, and a stick of wax which had been used once or more. My brother held the empty case upon his knees and regarded it with a sad face. "My poor father," burst from his lips, "what a reminder is this! It was his constant companion-the only thing he said which my mother or I might never meddle with," and he moved somewhat as if to put the desk upon the table beside him. It was, unhap- pily, too much for his strength. It slipped from his feeble hands and fell upon the floor. The fall had opened a secret spring, which revealed a hidden compartment, and, as the case was lifted from the ground, the carpet was strewed with papers, letters, withered flowers, but, woe is mc to tell it, uppermost lay the long-lost will! I knew before I touched it. I saw that Veron recognized it too. Conceal- ment was impossible. I tried, apparently with unconcern, to withdraw the paper from sight; and while I was bend- ing over the debris the solicitor entered with his clerk, im- mediately followed by Sir William Ashc. Oh, what mementos of the far-away past! A raven curl, which escaped from an opened miniature case, in which that same sweet face was painted, which had gazed in its loveliness upon the infatuated artist beside his bed of suffer- ing. A dozen or more of letters, yellow with time and worn in their folds by frequent opening and handling, all signed "Thy loving wife-Agnes."  An orange-blossom and a rose-bud almost miraculously preserved from dust, and seem- ing to retain a reminder of their once delightful odors. These tied together withl a ribbon that had once been blue,   80      BROCKLEY MOOR. and both inclosed in a paper which bore the date of that simple wedding at White Cliff, wellnigh forty years before. Besides these a small water-colored copy of a fair infant, whose golden curls and merry eyes had been pictured by a fond father's hand, One little curl, too, lay clustering there, and upon that wrapper was simply Arthur, born 18-;" and upon another tablet were written names of the two other boys, born only to be carried to the font-to the heavenly home of the fair innocents-and, finally, this sim- ple word in my father's handwriting, "A little girl born," and then followed the date of my own birth, but no name or any note to indicate one throb of welcome for that " little girl born " to endure so much sorrow and to cause so much suffering. The mystery must be unveiled now, and, with a manner not to be disputed, Veron asked for the papers. In vain I told him he had better leave them to my disposal, if he could trust me with so much-this was but little more to ask. He was more calm than we. Sir William's counte- nance bespoke distress, but rather for me than the dying man. Mr. Knowall turned to me with reproving indigna- tion. "How has this happened? Why was such a wicked deed brought to light at this late hour?" "We are yet to know that it is wicked," was my broth- er's calm reply. "I will send for my chaplain, and you ,   shall open this long-hidden paper and read it to us." "O Veron! O brother listen to me," I pleaded. "I know-I know too well what revelations may be in store. Do not imbitter these hours which should now suffer no such disturbance." "And shall I die a dishonest man, dear Agnes? You cannot mean that I should go to my grave with a lie on my lips! I cannot say that I have disembarrassed my mind of earthly things while such a mystery hangs over me.   [I   FALLING LEA VES.   Surely, Agnes, you will not hesitate-you will not fail me now, when I have so little besides to point me onward? Let our good rector be called. I will know all before I sign that paper which was to be completed this day." I saw the hectic pale and flash. I remarked the shivers that crept over him; and with one long, silent committal of ourselves to the merciful God I awaited the master-stroke of: my father's errors. As Mr. Moreton, our faithful friend and chaplain, entered this room of such gloomy associa- tions, I was sitting quietly beside my brother, who, to all appearance, was more calm than any of the group. He explained to Mr. Moreton, and an attorney who had accompanied Mr. Knowall, the circumstances under which this paper had been found, and did not conceal the previous intimations of the existence of such a document which he had had through Sir William Ashe. The aged solicitor could scarcely control his voice as at my brother's command he read: "The last will and testa- ment of Edward Trenor, Earl of Durreigh, of sound mind and body," etc. All previous wills and testaments were revoked. The small annuities and remembrances were sub- stantially as set forth by the previous will. Minute direc- tions were given as to a monumental inscription to himself and the supposed countess, who was to be described as Lady Edith Evelyn, for years the beloved and honored lady of the castle, sincerely and deeply regretted by her lord the earl, to whom her tender virtues and sweet companion- ship had been his greatest earthly joy. Thus the marble was to tell no lie, yet would cast no discredit on her fair fame. Then he went on to say that his daughter Agnes was the rightful and lawful heiress to the lands, titles, and estates of Durreigh; that she was born in honest wedlock, and could and should inherit under the restrictions of the entail. In addition to this, he bequeathed a large amount of money, absolutely and without control.    282      B  aIWBROOKLEY MOOR. As the reading went on,-Veron grew more and more deadly pale, and from shivers went into a violent ague. Still he maintained his upright position, and the reading progressed. To his son, known as Lord Sidney Veron, he be- queathed such and such estates in Devonshire, a house in London, and the immediate enjoyment of a certain large sum of money; and then came the sting of the serpent, as he declared the irregularity of the son's birth, and his in- ability to prove his right to inherit according to the laws of England and the special provisions of the entail. More- over, the bitterness was intensified by a testamentary letter found within the will, telling the unhappy son that this will had been prompted by his own unfilial and ungrateful aban- donment; that his duties had been performed by a sister who knew the exact facts as to her lineage and his, and was noble enough to prefer herself to bear the reproach than to cast it upon- him and the noble name she was entitled to bear. A dead silence prevailed for a few moments as the read- ing terminated, when honest old Knowall turned to his listener. "Was there ever any thing so infamous? That is the will the demented old earl brought to me for execu- tion I And here it is all in due order, drawn up in one of the most respectable offices in London, witnessed by men who are living still to confirm their witness, and signed by that hand which God struck with palsy not many hours later i-Sir William Ashe, will you carry out such an in- fernal scheme?-Lady Agnes, will you take possession upon such cursed termse?-My Lord Trenor, will you not dispute such evidences of your fatler's insanity?"Before any one of his questions could be answered, he was plying others. I said quietly: "It will make no difference to my brOth-   FALLING LEA VES. -   283   er; so long as he lives, he is master here. Let us throw that miserable paper into the flames, as though it had never seen light!" "You will do nothing of the kind, my friends," replied my brother, with an expression of death-like anguish on his dear face. "This scarcely modifies the disposition I would make of what remains as my own. I will sign that paper now." His calmness appalled me. He signed, and the witnesses inscribed their names beneath, and Veron extended his cold, trembling hand toward me. "And you, Agnes, have known this all along." "Do not think now of it, dear; let us go back to yester- day, when you were so happy in making provision for me- every thing shall be just as though this sad revelation was not made." "There is a greater revelation, Agnes, and it is your own boundless, matchless love and sacrifice. Methinks I could have died for a friend-but-but-I do not-cannot fathom the devotion that would bear a dishonored name- endure the ill-deseirved reproach-be a slighted thing, to save another from that woe, if all along I knew my title good and my name unsullied." "We will not talk more of it now; come back to your room and seek repose." He was docile as a child, and had to be carried to that room from which he should never walk again. That night he was feverish, and raved of the sad trans- actions of the day, and more than once I feared his mind would never be calm again; and when, with the ghost-dis- pelling sunlight, he opened his eyes to find me at my vigil, his first thoughts leaped to what he called our changed relations. Before that day waned he was calmly discussing the history of the past. He had read my mother's letter to   284       BROUKLEY MOOR. me. He had handled the marriage certificate, whicht ftr years I had treasured. He had pressed his lips to ' y mother's minature, and had played with that ebon curl, and touched lightly the golden threads that had once ir- posed upon a brother's brow, and he found joy in all thi. Not a reproach to his father, not a thought of envy toward me, nor a hard word for the wife, he too well remembered inside those castle-walls. "We have had our cross-ay! and a heavy one to carry, dear sister; but think you we can fancy the burden under which our poor father staggered to the grave? And what a history of retribution! what a fulfillment of the promise of no peace to the wicked!"And such reflections made up the discourse of that bitter day. There were let- ters which I had to read; there were records in my father's writing, which told of the hard struggle that would have stricken down a weaker man long years before. And, after all, he was no worse than a hundred others. God forbid that I should seek to justify him, yet I now understand it all so much better, and can pity while I condemn! CHAPTER XIX. TIROUGH NIGHT TO LIGHT. "The night is far spent, and the day is at hand." MR prayer had been mercifully answered: my petition had found favor, and my brother was spared to me, until I felt a certain assurance that his hopes were turned from earth. He was a shadow of his former self. The blue veins seem painted, as it were, upon the fair, white hands, which equaled nothing I have ever seen in their transparency.   THROUOGH ZNIGHT TO LIGHT.      285 Yet the brilliant eye and rich flush upon his cheek seemed to mock the voice which, in its peculiar hollowness, pro- claimed that the hour of dissolution was at hand. But there came a day when to speak was all but im- possible, and to breathe was anguish. The lustre of the eye faded into glassiness, and the hectic paled. I recog- nized the tokens. and knew my hour of desolation was near. It was All-Saints' Day, and the children of the schools were to meet in the church, and pass through the castle. grounds, in accordance with an old custom, which brought them every year to the castle for a certain dole, which pro- vided them with hoods and cloaks' for the winter. Mr. Moreton had inquired if, in consequence of the illness of the young lord, the usual procession and hymns, which they sang on the way, should not be omitted. My brother would not listen to the proposition, and early in the day, after morning service, while Veron lay struggling for the breath each moment growing shorter, the silence which had seemed to pervade all things was suddenly broken by the sweet voices of children singing the chorus to the time- honored hymn of the saints: "Angels of Jesus, angels of light, Singing to welcome the pilgrims of the night." Veron almost started from the unconsciousness that was fast settling upon him. "Sister, are those the angels? Have they come for the weary pilgrim?" he asked, in a whisper, almost inaudible. His ear seemed to have quickened its failing power, and he caught eyery word, repeating many, and binding them all to his heart. As the sweet sounds grew faint in the dis- tance, he strained every nerve to catch the last note, and when both had died away, he turned to me, and his fond. loving eyes told the farewell that his lips could not utter;   286       BROCKLEY MOOR. An hour or two later, the faithful priest had knelt beside that couch and ministered the last loving rites of the Church to her living children, and then, as one anointed for his burial, he was left to my untiring vigil. "Repeat, darling, that one sweet verse of promise," and, with a heart that seemed wellnigh ready to break, I whis- pered softly, as he struggled to accompany me: "Rest comes at length, though life be long and dreary, The day must dawn and darksome night be past; Faith's journey ends in welcome to the weary, And heaven, the heart's true home, must come at last. Angels of Jesus, angels of light, Singing to welcome the pilgrims of the night." After a moment of profoundest silence he repeated the refrain, and soon after slept, quite exhausted. Would he ever again look upon me? would he ever unveil those eyes on earth, or were they already fixed upon that angelic group, whose "singing to welcome" had been his ast earthly lullaby? And thus he slumbered on until, at the close of this short, bright autumnal day, the music of the parish chimes called faithful hearts to prayer. He opened those won- drous eyes1 no longer lustreless, but illumined with the glory that is reflected from the great throne. Even the dim twilight of the hour was brightened, and I felt some- thing of the awe which must have filled those earth-bound souls as they gazed upon the features of the first martyr, and saw there the celestial grace that made them believe they looked upon the face of an angel. "Sister, I go HWelcome me, welcome me, angels of light!"I knelt with his hand in mine, and finding no other words, I said, "Our Father which art in heaven." A low voice mingled with mine petition after petition, slowly,   THROUGH NIGHT TO LIGHT.       287 so slowly, as though I would defer the end, as we mur- mured that last "AMEN! The chiming-bells ceased their music, and all was hushed. How chill the very air be- came! how awful that long-dreaded calm! I dared not raise my head, which was bowed upon his pillow. I clasped closer and closer the unresponding hand, as its pressure upon my own relaxed. I moved my cheek toward his without lifting my head, and the chill of the touch sent a cold shudder to my own warm-beating heart. The hand I held grew heavy, and the fingers stiff. Oh! not a breath moved my hair which rested upon his cheek; not a sigh escaped those pale, cold lips; not one throb of the once fond heart; not a pulsation of the body; not a word; nay, never again a word to tell me he was near! I only recall the dread I have of looking upon his face, and an unconquerable terror that I should see something changed there; and thus, spellbound and infatuated, I knelt until twilight had become night, and the moonlight vas streaming over the shadowy couch, and the lifeless land was still tightly grasped in mine. I recall the sound -so unwelcome-of approaching steps, and a moment later bir William Ashe had entered, and lifting me tenderly,   I vith sorrow in his loving voice, as he said," May God com- ort you, my stricken Agnes!" he led me unresisting away, nd I fell again into that unconscious state in which I had uffered so much after those terrible revelations of my Touth.   288       BROCKLEY MOOR. CHAPTER XX. CHANGES. "Gathering froni every loss and grief Hope of new spring and endless home." SEVERaL weeks must have passed, but they are all a blank in my life, when I slowly revived to a consciousness of existence and my duties. The winter had set in with great severity, when I first expressed my desire to leave the castle. I was told I had been ill, and a violent fever had threatened my life, and friends-and, o! as the lady of the castle I had plenty of admirers and acquaintances-advised me to seek somemore favorable climate for my winter home; but I resisted such counsel, and Christmas found me trying to be faithful to my stewardship, and preparing Christmas cheer for those who had so few evidences of the " good-will to men," which their simple hearts were wont sing in perfect faith as the winds and snows of winter brought the birthday of our Lord, year after year, to their humble homes. There is always to me something very touching in the sight of these simple souls thronging to church in unusual numbers on Christmas-day. There is something in this festival which appeals at once to their human sympathies. "Unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son is given," is a fact which they can all understand; and they need not trouble their unquestioning faith as to the mystery of the Incarnation, nor the hidden mercies of the Atonement, all shrouded in that tiny and tender form, whose birth they celebrate. They go with grateful hearts to the church, which pious hands have decked with branches and wreaths, to typify the everlasting Branch which should be of perpetual strength   CHANGES.          289 and beauty for the elect. The Gaorica in Excelsis to their ears is a burst of jubilee which, year after year, has echoed since its strains were first heard on those plains of Judea; and they do not pause to ask for an indication of peace on earth and good-will to men. Christmas is the poor man's festival, and preeminently the poor child's feast of fruits. And what a satisfaction is lost to the rich and the favored of earth when they fail to use these blessed privileges, making this feast speak of the joy of the Lord to Christ's little ones. This truth I realized on that clear, frosty Christmas morning, when I met the children of the different schools, and heard their joyous carols and sweeter hymn, which pointed upward and took the memory back full eighteen centuries. "Hark, the herald angels sing," is a renewed fact to our ears .of faith every Christmas-day. I seemed like one in a dream, as group after group gath- ered around me, wishing me a "Merry Christmas" with an air of chastened joy, as they received their small tokens of my remembrance, and regarded with almost furtive glances the deep mourning . it seemed to contradict the idea of merriment with which they greeted their new friend. Ay! doubt not, dear children. That garb of woe, in which fashion and custom had clothed me, was rather a mockery of the heart than a contradiction of its earnest sympathies with your festal joy. "Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also." "Peace on earth," too, though sin was on every side, and sorrow and death had strewed the earth'with wrecks. I ,ms but waiting now," and I have grown so familiar with the open grave that I no longer cry, "'Tis weary waiting here.", Nay, my heart responds: "Onward we go, for still we hear them singing, Come, weary soul, for Jesus bids you come.'" 13   290 290       BROcKLEY .MOOR. It was not easy to turn from this sweet singing to earth ly tasks and life's dull routine again, while it was quite as difficult t-k, rap          and keep at. lon difficult to wrap myself in weeds of woe and keep a long- drawn vigil beside that last-closed grave, and count the hours as they passed until for me "those angels of light" should sing their song of welcome. Thank Heaven, no I It was not that I passed " through prayer unto the tomb; but, rather, as I watched the with- ered leaves of love and hope falling thickly around me, I was mercifully enabled to gather "from every loss and grief Hope of new spring and endless home. CHAPTER XXI. A MOTIHE'S GRAVE . MY brother's illness and death and my own subsequent prostration had left me unable to give more than a general attention to my young wards, or to the information obtained by Sir William Ashe, before and after our return from the Continent, especially as it was of a nature to quiet our ap- poehensions and leave the children undisturbed in their present home and studies, which proceeded satisfactorily under their governess. But soon after the holidays, hen matters at the castle returned to their even routine, again, for a third time, been set in order after the gloom and confusion of death's sad inroad, I turned, my attention more especially to Alice ancl Bessie. They had meanwhile been developing in mind and body, winning the hearts of those about them by the sweet and gentle sympathy with which they mingled in the general sorrow. I leisurely   A .MOTHER'S GRAVE.        291 considered the nature and bearing of the information re- ceived by Sir William. He wasx again in correspondence with Colonel Gillespie, whose long silence had been ex- plained by the miscarriage of his letters in consequence of his having been ordered with his regiment to a distant post, where the means of communicating with England were neither regular nor by any means certain. The tone of his letters was not cheerful on the subject of his nieces, though. his affectionate solicitude for them appeared to be increased. He intimated that such tidings as he had been able to ob- tain of the missing father left him in doubt whether he were even living; but, if living, it was very likely under circum- stances that promised no happiness for the children in that direction, and that death would soon probably close a his- tory of which the children had better know as little as pos- ble. He announced his determination to regard the chil- dren as his own, and to free himself as soon as possible, and resume a charge which had already too largely trespassed upon my indulgent goodness. He authorized Sir William to relieve me of the children whenever their presence should seem inconvenient, and to express to me his deep sense of obligation for the maternal care of the dear  orphans. Thus I was made to contemplate a separation from the sweet children who had quietly wrought themselves into my little world. Upon examination, I felt satisfied with their progress in all needful studies, and during the remain- der of the -winter gave them a due proportion of my care. I found, too, in their fresh young hearts, albeit they were slightly shaded by the gloom through which they had passed, a relief from the cemetery of my own memories and buried hopes. The varied duties of my position gave me ample occupation and abundant opportunity for living in the happiness of others. It was a blessed privilege to   292       BROCKLEY MOOR. use the large power for good and to feel that there are some joys the world cannot take away. So passed the winter, and before the spring had yielded to the summer heats I set my face toward a pilgrimage to which my heart had long been moving me. I desired to revisit my mother's grave in that quiet Highland church-yard. Not caring to journey alone or to give myself up too entirely to the crowding reminiscences such a visit would bring upon me, I concluded to take the children with me as far as Edin- burgh and there leave them with their governess, while I made the pious pilgrimage alone. They only knew that I proposed to give them a trip of recreation, which should include London and the north of England and Scotland. We set out and achieved our programme to their delight. I entered into the joy of these young hearts at the new scenes and pleasures of the great city, and sought to inter- est them in the objects that lay in our line of travel.. At last we reached the Scottish metropolis, and, after a few days spent among its many features of interest, I left my i companions in safe quarters, to abide my return from an errand of duty, which I told them I had to perform at some r little distance I  A short journey, during which my emotions became    1 strong and mixed in character, brought me to the spot hal- n lowed by so many memories and fresh interest. I cannot  describe the sensations which seized me as I lifted the a :latch of the gate that opened into the garden where I had tt played in infancy. The' house, happily for me, was un-  a occupied, and I did not realize, until I found myself in the m rooms, which I recognized as through a mental mist, that I th was actually the owner of the little cottage, in which the cl furniture stood pretty much as when it was my simple   b home. Still theremwere no preserved souvenirs of her who co had lived and died under that homely roof. There had, up   A A[OTHE'S GdRA   .      293 293 doubtless, been other tenants since my mother passed away, and even the garden told of much care. It was like recalling an almost forgotten dream to go up the narrow stairway to the room where I had slept with my mother, and where she had rested for so many weary days and nights gazing upon the stern, cold hill-side, or straining for a glimpse of the simple little church-yard, where her boys were sleeping, and where she hoped to rest her own overwearied frame. From the 'cottage I wandered to the consecrated spot, "God's Acre," as the simple folk call it. Of that I had a less distinct recollection than of the cottage. The " cre" was not so large that I had much difficulty in finding the graves. Happily, my father had not carried out his inten- tion as to the removal of the bodies, although the graves had been neatly inclosed within a rail, and one simple stone, chaste and pure, had been erected, to mark the rest- ing-place of "Agnes Alwyn, first wife of Lord Edward Trenor, and their three sons, Arthur, Edward, and Ken- neth "-their ages were told--" with a promise of joyful resurrection." I subsequently learned that this care had been bestowed upon this far-away resting place by com- mand of my brother, but a few days before his own removal. Sir William Ashe had been a Willing instrument in this anticipation of my, own designs, and there was something touching to me in the sweet proofs of Veron's submission and desire to render justice to all. Unlike the other monu- mental memorials scattered over this cemetery, which lacked the rural beauty and inexpressible eloquence of our English  church-yard burial-places, my mother's grave was marked by a simple Roman cross, surmounting the white slab that covered the spot where she "rested in hope." I gathered a few of the wild-flowers that bloomed upon her breast, and a leaf or two of the cedar that shaded  294      BRIOCIKLEY MOOR. the stone, and, with a half conviction that I should never again tread those tangled walks, I knelt for a few moments beside the railing, then turned away with an indescribable sense of loneliness and desolation. I rejoined my young companions, and we turned our faces homeward. On reaching the castle we found our ever-faithful Sir William waiting at the gate to welcome us back with his bright smile and cheery voice. With him, too, stood my, uncle, and Mary beside him. Positive letters from her had commanded our speedy return for her wedding, at which my young wards were to appear as bridesmaids. Mary had been won by the young son of an ancient and titled house, not by one of her father's curates, as many had prophesied. Nevertheless her husband would, in due time, succeed to the living which her father had held for nearly two generations; an old man now of most venerable appearance, though retaining much vigor of body, and warmly beloved by young and old. But there was another gentleman among those awaiting our return, whom I did not at first recognize, until Sir William pronounced the name of Colonel Gillespie, and that gentleman, more deeply browned by the Indian suns, approached, and, with a few words of courteous and grate- ful reference to his deep obligations, turned to embrace those whom he said had bound him to me by such ties. He gazed with fond admiration upon the children, and, as his eyes wandered back to me, I saw in them the moisture of inexpressible satisfaction. I knew his presence boded separation from the dear children. And so it came to pass not many days after, though I did not altogether lose sight of my young protg&es, to whom I had become fondly attached, and who continued to' visit me occasionally at the castle.   THE HJEI1 OF TIE C4STLE.    .   9 CHAPTER XXII. THE  IIEIR OP THE CASTLE. "A few more struggles here, A few more partings o'er, A few more toils, a few more tears, And we shall weep no more." TEN, twenty, ay! more than twenty years have rolled away since I presided at Mary's wedding. Her honored father; now rests beneath the altar he so faithfully served for half a century and more. His successor is no longer a young man, but wears worthily the mantle he took up as it fell from the departing prophet; and, like him, is doing God'g work. The sweet bell calls thb weary pilgrim to a short hour's rest within the hallowed shade. In the church-yard there are many now who were wont to find refreshment within the sanctuary; and many, whom the good old rector held at the font half a centlry ago, have taken their places either vithin the walls or are resting with their parents outside. Oh, the vista through which I look back! The distance is so great, and the objects so minute. Life's early days so checkered, storms and shipwrecks marking their course, and then almost a generation of such calm and quiet as are not often vouchsafed to mortals-.withaI a sense of un- utterable aloneness in the heart, which I believe to be no common experience. Such were my reflections as I sat upon the wide terrace of the castle one bright summer day not long ago. Young forms and bright faces were all around me, and those who did not know my eventful history would have supposed me a aother in Israel surrounded by a second and third gen- eration.  296       BROaKLEY MOOR. My eye returns ever to rest upon the proud youth I had learned to call my boy-my Veron, my heir; he who would be so soon the young earl of these estates. His mother is near me, too, my once sweet little cousin and pupil, now a staid matron, with daughters grown, and her first-born son, ,so gladly yielded to me, and already ac- knowledged as the young lord of the castle. There, too, are my once-cherished Alice and Bessie, and their little ones; and beyond all these, the fields and woods to-day are filled with honest and loyal country-folk, gathered here to celebrate our great festival. For to-day my Veron is twenty-one, and it is long since there has been such re- joicing at the coming of age of an heir. This day's doings should be a page in our history to be long remembered, I think, as I take note of the excellent cheer and honest joy of the good people far and wide. And then he comes to me, my adopted boy, with those wondrous eyes, and that tall and agile form. Years upon years are covered from memory; and my old eyes, now clear with their second vision, seem to behold the Veron of other days-the hopeless, broken-hearted brother of my. youth! But my boy comes to me, and he carries a glass, in which I am to drink to the toast which is now being pro-  posed, and which is to the " health and wealth of the house forever!"We drink, and he lisses the wrinkled hand that gives back the glass, and with the grace of an ancient knight he bows upon one knee before me, and says that I am now to be toasted, and he is to respond; and then he darts to. the gay group of youth and beauty, of which he is to-day at least the idol. And thus the day wears on; the sun is only gilding the hill-tops, and the vales are all in fi shade, and I am in prudence bound to put myself under 0 shelter. The park was to be illuminated by Chinese lau- h;   CONCLUSION.         297 there ould be dancing for rich and poor, under broad tents, or upon smooth-shaven lawns, as the'merry-makers might'choose, until probably the advent of morning would break up the prolonged festivity. "Lord, lettest now thy servant depart in peace," was the prayer of my uplifted heart as I withdrew from the sound of mirth and the bursts of gay music. At last there seemed to have come a day of redemption for the old house and long-honored name. An alien, after all, should not inherit either title or estate, and the young heir was a direct descendant from the lord who ruled in these ancient halls before my father; while, as if in a sort of poetical vindication, he was but two removes in descent from the village maiden whose marriage with the younger son had never been quite for- given by my father and grandfather. et he was noble in every trait, and none would have questioned the safety of the house's dignity and honor who marked his high, proud bearing, withal carrying a heart sweet and gentle. With his brothers and sisters he was an idol, and to his parents the realization of parental dreams, while he came in his fresh young nature to revive my interest in life and to quicken the sluggish flow of my heart's blood. CHAPTER     XXII!. CONCLUSION. TH  following morning, while all Durreigh was resting from  its toilful pleasure, a packet was brought to me. On opening it I recognized, beneath the outer cover, the handwriting of the wandering Elric. The letter bore no   298      BWROOKLEY M OOlR. date or address, and was directed with this dismal inscrip- tion: "To be sent after my death to Lady Agnes Trenor. -ELuic." I could learn nothing as to the faithful execu- tor of this dying wish, nor by whose hand the packet had been sealed and addressed. It came by a private messen- ger, who left no explanation. I had only to read the inclosure, which I did with sor- rowful heart. In transcribing this melancholy history I take leave of my indulgent reader, who has patiently wan- dered with me from childhood to old age, thankful if there has been found enough of interest in my narrative to re- ward the kindness, and trusting that the moral of my story may not be quite lost in the feebleness with which I have developed the lesson it offers to the erring human heart. ELRIC'S LETrER. "Agnes, I hlave mastered the desire, I have resisted the temptation that would drag me fromn my obscurity and bring my ill-starred presence before you. You are not to me the titled woman, the representative of a proud and noble family; I cannot so picture you. Nor is it the fear that you are changed, that keeps me from you. I have learned you better. I know you are not moving in solitary state in the gloomy castle. I am not ignorant of the home which your presence hallows, nor of the haunts of lowliness which rejoice in your loving ministry. But my doom is fixed, and not even the gentle hand of my own loved and loving Agnes may smooth my pillow in these last days. For last days they are to me. More than fourscore and ten years have been given to me, and all that is left of life now is doled out day by day. Oh, were you still poor, still humble and struggling-were you still the simple Agnes, with no high-sounding titles besides, then would I go to you; then would assert my kinship and urge my right td                           .   CONCLUSION.         29 share your love and care. But now-yet what madness to 'have ever recalled the possibility! I must dwell alone. A gulf has ever separated. us; it is widened now. And there are no asylums for me. There are homes where the wrecks of human crime and passion may be sheltered. There are prisons, penitentiaries, workhouses, and poor- houses convict-settlements abroad, and hospitals at home. But these are not for me. There is no place for an embit- tered spirit, a broken heart, a life that has gone out into nothingness. In the wild insanity of my comfortless being there is but one craving: I want you; I want your love, your woman's, your childlike love. I want to die with my hand in yours, and my head upon your breast, as your father died. I want no priest, no mummeries, no hollow recitation of commonplaces in my ears. I want only you- I want to see you; to hear your voice. I want you to help in the' dismantling of my spirit. But, oh my cursed lot my hopeless destiny! Conceived in sin, in sorrow born, in shame have I lived, and in despair I die! Yet who shall be my accuser? Nay, whom shall I accuse? Her, who with a woman's nature and' a woman's heart so beautifully enshrined, yet failed in high loyalty to both, yielding them in woful sacrifice when she gave to the 'world a child of sorrow, upon whom must descend the curse of the second commandment? Shall I accuse her, orrather lim, to whose' dishonorable, destroying passion I owe my existence? But what avails 'crsing? I need not thus rave to you who have known-too much of such reflections. We have learned in the same school, and alike inherited sorrow from ini- quity." (Three days later): "I began a few days ago to write to you. I scarcely know wlat I wrote-but i was not the letter I designed, nor do I care now to revise it. Let it stand unchanged, for it is the truth. I intended, when I    300   .   BROCKLEY' MOO R. began, to tell you, as briefly as'possible, my story, of which you already know some fragments. But, if it is to be told, I must launch into it abruptly, and leave you to judge me by it. My earliest recollections, Agnes, are of the same scenes that are impressed indelibly upon your own heart. Just two-and-ninety years ago I was born, not far from the moor, and as near White Cliff. The cottage still stands, but in ruins, like the hearts of those who once dwelt with- in the crumbling walls. 'My father was your paternal grandfather. My mother-may God forgive her Hwas the daughter of an honest man, whose hands were hardened by the toil with which he had earned the means to educate his only child. Fatal mistake, that elevated her above her companions, yet gave her not the social position of those whom she equaled in mind and person. It was the old story. I wish that I could say it was a case of betrayal and involuntary ruin. Alas I no.' The cottage, with its jasmine-vine and attractive garniture within, the love of an earl, and the dignity of being its object, were enough to carry captive the heart of the simple maiden; and she fled from virtue and honesty, from her father's homely roof and her mother's prayers, to the fairy bower that love had prepared, defying forms and ceremonies, yielding body and soul to one who did not think her worthy. of his name and rank. Of that union I was born-born to curse my own existence, and see it branded by the world; the first-born of an earl, the child of his youth and. earliest love-the child also, alas I of a fair, frail, loving woman, whom the world would have taught me to forget, because she was frail and loving. "I remember well my mother, and as distinctly can I recall the stern, proud lineaments of my father. As the so- called Edward Trenor appeared, when first he wooed my Agnes Alwyn-such was his father and mine, when last I saw him.   ONCOILUSIO.         801 C O N' UL Ugl O.1.     301 "My childhood, those fewand only blessed years of my life, were happy because unconscious. For what was there to make my lot appear different from that of other child- ren, except that I seemed to be more indulged, and to have more luxuries than most of them? My mother's exquisite loveliness east sunshine and beauty over our cottage home. My father was her world, and in his visits she found, out- side of myself, her only joy, stolen and unrighteous as it was. His influence over her was so great that I smoth-  : ered the feeling of mingled fear and dislike I felt for him, and, if not affectionate, at least I was respectful and obe- dient toward him. "It is true that even then I knew that my mother had her sorrows, but I was too young to penetrate the cause and concluded that it was grief, because " business" took my father so much from home. But ignorance was at length dispelled. "My mother instructed me until I was about fourteen years of age, when my father said the care was too great for her, and I was sent to school. Not many months had passed before I ate of the tree of knowledge. It was there I learned the history of my home, my parentage, and the , blighting curse that rested upon me. The knowledge irst came. through taunts and scorn, for it appeared that my father had never made a secret of his relations with my mother. I escaped from the school as quickly as possible and sped homeward. My father was with my mother when I reached the cottage. Reckless of consequences, with the one idea of avenging my own and my mother's wrongs, I threw myself before my father, demanding how lie dared to be there I I do not remember his reply. I know I heard a derisive laugh, which further exasperated ne, and' I turned to my mother, who, with a terrified cx- pression of face, clung to my father.   302       BRIO CLE Y .MOOR. ' Are you mad? 'I shrieked, as I seized her arm. This aroused my father's rage. 'Insolent boy,' he exclaimed, as he struck my face-' take that: and begone i? "' Do you dare to touch me thus, Lord Trenor, you who have brought my mother to the dust?' I turned again to my mother, who was weeping with the bitterness of despair. -'-Tell me, mother, do you know that this man whom I  call father is the husband of another woman, and the fa- the of therofher son? Do you know it? ' "A moment's silence, and my father's arm again was raised. I warded off the blow, and stood defiantly before him. "' I fear you not, my lord! Strike me if you will, crush me if you like! Ay! you pause; -you will not do me so great a kindness. Die! yes, a thousand times die, rather than bear forever the burden of an inheritance of shame. Lift from me the curse which you conferred upon me with existence, or end the life you cannot make honorable! Think of the inheritance of this son, when you are teach- ing my younger brother to read the ancestral tree. Think of her who, in God's sight, is your wife, when you are revelling in the " love " of the lawful companion of your life, whom you have given the right to bear your name, and be saved from moral degradation. Think of this, Lord Tre- nor; and I pray from my soul that the curse may rest on you and yours, recoiling upon you, and withering your own blackened heart and theirs forever! "I rushed from their presence and from their house, and, not until I stood upon the beach at Brockley did I realize what I had done, or consider the consequences of my con- duct. Go back I could not, and, besides my grave, there was but one place to which I could go. An instant's thought decided me, and, with a few shillings in my pocket, I started for Liverpool, where I readily engaged myself as common sailor, and without one pang of conscience or one   COOIL USI6.Y 303 thought of mypoor mother I embarked for a lengthy voyage.  my "Two years later I returned to England, but reimbarked in a few days, without having revisited my native place, or having given my mother the least clew to my doings. An- other two years and I was again in England, and this time and this time I determined to return for a few days to my old haunts. I did so, and found a happy family in the cottage, and my mother--God forgive me!--I found her grave. A little white stone marked that grave; it bore only her maiden name. Thank Heaven, I cannot live over again that first hour of misery and remorse! My heart had been harder than the headstone not to have melted at the sight of that grave, over which the grass had grown for two summers. What,recollections of our last interview! What' conjec- tures as to her agony---she who could never rest when I was out of her sight--as days merged in weeks, in months, in years, and the recreant came not! Oh, for the memo- ry of a farewell kiss, for the certainty that she forgave me I! or for some one to repeaft the words which I was sure she had left for me. Nothing but the soft singing of the birds and the insects humming in the grass broke that grave. yard. silence, except that sorrowful, dirge-lke moan that the wind always makes over the dead. "Is there any repentance so deep as that of the wrong to the departed? Is there any sorrow so poignant as that we feel over the grave of one whom we hve injured? Well do I comprehend how the murderer cannot look upon the body from which he has taken life. There are but two visions in the past, Agnes, my moth: er and your owl. In recalling yours I bring an angel to my side--in reviewing the memory of my own, Hbut it is not for me to dwell upon that theme--though I would not be found with the rabble which stands stone in hand to pull-   304       BROCKLEY MOO1R0 . ish the woman whose virtue has been weaker than her love, while it opens the way for her social destroyer to pass on to other triumphs. "But I returned to my native place, I said, and my mother was under the sod. In all the world there was not one upon whom I had any claims. My maternal grand- father still lived, but he knew nothing of me, and had never exchanged a word with my mother since her elopement and fall. I had wearied of a seaman's life, and had but one wish, and that was to be educated and fit myself to rival in some way the rightful heir of my father's name. I had those visions of great achievements which more or less haunt every youth of eighteen. I would not be crushed by my melancholy position. No! I would become great in letters, in knowledge, and learning, as the peaceful condi- tion of my country at that time offered no possibility of my distinguishing myself upon the battle-field, where certainly I would have fought with recldess courage. Unfortunately, I was poor, and would have to toil for the bare necessities of life, which luckily were not numerous in my case. After much struggling, I did put myself in a position where food and raiment were provided while I had leisure to gratify the ruling passion, and I succeeded. It was not far from Brockley that I led my hermit-life, and it was after five years of arduous study that I began to feel something like satisfaction in the result. It was then that I first met your mother. The fascination of her charms drew me from my seclusion and strengthened the ambition that had already fired my soul. I loved her earnestly, and, I believed, not in vain. My suit had been successful, perhaps, had I not, one dark and awful night, rescued a man from a wreck. I carried him to your aunt's dwelling, which was then your mother's home. How little I imagined that he would pluck the flower almost from my grasp! and as little he imagined   CONVCL USIO.         30 his rescu   isrhad               305 his rescuer had penetrated the artist's guise, and that, when he stood beside the altar, it was his brother who whispered, ongratulation to Lord' and Lady Trenor.' e slrtd nd there                 Hee gstarted and there were guilt and cowardice in his confusion and in- junctions to silence. The dark urposes of his heart ere then intelligible to me. I had in truth only attended the wieddingin th e conviction that my testimony' as witness might be valuable some day. "Another cruel blow soon followed this, and: in my weak- ness I yielded to despa  A ositio, no mattr wir was apparently w in t yhreach O; ' no matter i*ilat was apparently within my reach. It was suddenlyrefused though my qualifications had been dmitted d y morfused character was unquestioned. But it son transpired thma my social position was the obstacle. In a word, the ir- regularity of my birth was the ftal bar to my advance. ment, and my hopes were defeated. Unhappily, I was weak enough, thus thwarted, to cast away all my aspirtions and become embittered in every feeling Men became hsp atons and to m, and the very books tlhat had been mnygreatest deliglit were tossed aside, and I gave myself up to all that I had over most shunned.        UP to al that I bad ever most shunned uI sought the companionship of those over whom my education gave me superiority and whom I could rule by ascendency^0   superiority and whom I could rule by ascendency of character. My ambition had to find vent in some form. I left England for many years, and when I returned it was to sustain the reputation I have since borne. You know enougl of my doings at BrocklIy to have doubted the current fiction of my fishe mants life. BrockIey Hall was the headquarters of the most darinfg band of sulers in he United Kingdom and I was teir chief. You know well the cavern which was Our port of entry. I couldnever do things by halves. Our operations rc as extensive as they were bold. Our ptrons ere not small shopkeepers. Nothing was peddled from house to house. We were the instruments of "honorable and respect-   306       BROGKLEY   [OOQR.  able houses,' whose integrity was unsuspected and credit unquestioned. Our share was good, but our risks were tremendous. But I have not been enriched by the traffic. I had no desire to hoard, and found a pleasure in dispensing good wherever I found occasion. It is a feeble satisfaction to be able to declare with truth that I have wronged no man, but have been able to lighten some cares to the over- burdened and soften some of the misery of life. I have helped others to wealth, not because I cared for them. They fed and fattened upon my hazardous enterprises, in which I took pleasure for the very danger that invested them. My fevered blood found luxury in deeds of daring. If my outlaw life set me at war with government, I felt some bit- ter satisfaction in the thought that I was even with a legisla- tion which could provide no justice for such wrongs as mine. "And yet, though the admission galls me, I regret it all. I deplore the weakness that could Inot defy the scorn and taunts of the world. I think with bitterness of what I am and of what I might have been. I recall with sorrow the years wasted, devoted to lawlessness and evil, but with most pain the lives my example has probably led away and ruined. But it is all past now, save the heavy responsibility, what- ever that be. All those precious years of health, power, and opportunity-all the better impulses that I crushed, they are all gone, and I am an old man, looking down into the open grave, with a heart full of remorse and despair.. . (Ten days later:) "With the above words my hand suddenly refused to record my thoughts, and I have since watched ten suns set, and now my failing powers scarcely respond to this last call upon them. I shall not see an- other sun rise upon this world. I am longing for you. When last writing, I said my heart was full of remorse and despair. But there is more and worse than this within me. Vengcance travails to bring forth. An injured soul   CONCL USION. 30 7 in the face of its calamities cries for retribution, and I am helpless. As well might I bid the thunder cease or the cataract stay its course. Devils mock me as I think of retribution: I know what you would say of the power of Christianit--'ofyour fapith to bring peace and tranquillity to my spirit. But the world of nominal Christians have so poorly illustrated to my eyes the virtues of this doctrine that it has never invited me strongly.  Were you here to preach it to me with the demonstration of your own sweet exampie, it might bring me some comfort.. "Again I had to pause, and feared my last sun would see my words unfinished. Again, again am I growing mad, or is it the dotage of my years? I found myself call- ing'Agnes! Agnes ' Did I call you, or that other Agnes? This time it is you, your living, loving ingg minis- try, that I invoked. Why can I not drag myself to you and be one of those you bless? 'Why am I shut out from you? Why haVe not your willing feet found out my hiding-place and brought the warmth and light of your charity to my cheerless retreat? "Agnes, my child Agnes! Your dear voice alone could comfort me, just as it did so many years ago, when your, tiny hands so naturally clasped my fingers. Your infant ministry tried to save me then, but my heart was too obdu- rate-so long, long ago. Now, now it is too late! Yet y  ou may come to me, my child'Agnes; yes, come to mc- a few hours more of solitude, and youwill come, and I shl "iMy hand grows weak-my task is done, bat you will come to me! My eyes grow dim, and are gathering mist, but I could see yo. I cannot' think What more to say, yet cannot leave you. Agnes, child, deat one, come save me! Agnes, I need you. Will you come?   I fi them. Come, Agnes!"            I forgive TIlE END.     BRE S SANT. A NOVEL. By JULIAN HAWTHORNE. 1 vol., 12mo. Cloth ............................... ..Price, $1.5n -  44.-Jt----- From the London Examiner. UWe will not say that Mr. Julian Hawthorne has received a double portion of his father's spirit, but 'Brcssant' proves that he has inherited the distinctive tone and fibre of a gift which was altogether exceptional, and moved the author of the 'Scarlet Letter' beyond the reach of imitators. "Bressant, Sophie, and Cornelia, appear to us invested with a sort of enchantment which we should find it difficult to account for by any reference to any special passage in their story." From t7e London Athenaeumn. "Mr. Hawthorne's book forms a remarkable contrast, in point of powerand interest, to the dreary mass of so-called romances through which the reviewer works his way. It is not our purpose to forestall the reader, by any detailed account of the story; suf- fice it to say that, if we can accept the preliminary difficulty of the problem, its solution, in all its steps, is most admirably worked out." From tho Pall Jall, Gazette. "So fhr as a man may be judged by his first work, Mr. Julian Hawthorne is en- dowed with a large share of his fahter's peculiar genius. We trace in 'Bressant' the same intense yearning after a high and spiritual life, the same passionate love of nature, the sdme subtlety and delicacy of remark, and also a little of the same tendency to in- dulge in the use of a half-weird, half-fantastic imagery." From the New York Times. "'Bressant' is, then, a work that demonstrates the fitness of its author to bear the name of Hawthorne. More in praise need not be said; but, if the promise of the book shall not utterly fade and vanish, Julian Hawthorne, in the maturity of his power, will rank side by side with him who has hitherto been peerless, but whom we must here- after call the ' Elder Hawthorne."' From the Boston Post. "There is beauty as well as power in this novel, the two so pleasantly blended, that the sudden and incomplete conclusion, although ending the romance with an abrupt- ness that is itself artistic, comes only too soon for the reader." From the Boston Globe. "It is by far the most'original novel of the season that has been published at home or abroad, and will take high rank among the best American novels ever written." eFom the Boston Gazette. "There is a strength in the book which takes it in a marked degree out of the range of ordinary works of fiction. It is substantially an original story. There are freshness and vigor in every part." From the Ihomed Journal. "' Bressant' is a remarkable romance, full of those subtle touches of fancy, and that insight into the human heart, which distinguish genius from the mere clever and ca- tertaining writers of whom we have perhaps too many." D. APPLETON     &  CO., Publishers, New    York. o   "GOOD-BYE, SWEETHEART!' D. APPLETON & CO. Have recently published, GOOD-BYE, SWEETHEART! By RHEODA 3BROUG'ITON, AUTHOR OF R' ED AS A ROSE IS SHE," "COMETH UP AS A FLOWER," ETC, One Vol.. 8vo. Paper covers ............. Price, $0.75. "  '1lmo. Cloth ....  ................. 1.0. "Good-bye, Sweetheart!" is certainly one of the brightest and most entertaining novels that has appeared for many years. The heroine of the story, Lenore, is really an original character, drawn only as a woman could draw her, who had looked deeply into the mysterious recesses of the feminine heart. She is a creation totally beyond the scope of a man's pen, unless it were the pen of Shakespeare. Her beauty, her wilfulncss, her caprice, her love, and her sorrow, are depicted with marvellous skill, and invested with an interest of which the reader never becomes weary. Miss Broughton, in this work, has made an immense advance on her other stories, clever as those are. Her sketches of scenery and of interiors, though brief, are eminently graphic, and the dialogue is always sparkling and witty. The incidents, though sometimes startling and unexpected, are very natural, and the characters and story, from the beginning to the end, strongly enchain the attention of the reader. The work has been warmly commended by the press during its publication, as a serial, in APPLETONS' JOURNAL, and, in its book-form, bids fair to be decidedly Trn novel of the season. D. A. & Co. have now ready, New Editions of COXMT1k UP AS A FLOWER.--    ..................Price, 60 cents. NOT WISELY, BUT TOO WELL .................... Price, 60 cents. BED AS A ROSE IS SHE .......................;.... Price, GO cents. BY THE SAME AUTHOR.   NOW READY, A NEW EDITIOl OP THE HOUSEHOLD OF BOUVERIE. BY THE AUTHOR 6F p"MRlIA MONFORT." 1 vol., 12mo. Price, $2.00. From OGail amilton, author ef "Gala Days," etc. "' The Household of BouverieI is one of those nuisances of books that pluck out all your teeth, and then dare you to bite them. Your interest is awakened in the first chapter, and you are whirled through in a lightning-epr5es train that leaves you no opportunity to look at the little details of wood, and lawn, and river. You notice two or three little peculiarities of stylc-one or two 'bits' of paintng--and then you pull on your seven-leaued boots, and away you go." From Tohn G. 'axe, tie -Poet. "It is a strange romance, and will bother the critics not a little. The interest of the book is undeniable, and is wonderfully sustained to the end of the story. I   think it exhibits far more power than any lady-novel of recent date, and it cer- tainly has the rare merit of entire originality.' , From Jranon E1aHand, author of "Alone, "Hidden Pat/l," etc. "As to Mrs. Warfield's wonderful book, I have read it twice--the second time more carefully than the first-and I use the term 'wonderful' because it best ex- presses the feeling uppermost in my mind, both while reading and thinking it over. As a piece of imaginative writng, I have een nothing to ql it sinc the days of Edgar A. Poe, and I doubt whether he could have sustained himself and reader through a book of hal thesize of the ousehold of Bonerie.' Iwas literally hurried through it by my intense sympathy, my devouring curiosity--it was more than interest. I read everywhere--betwecn the courses of the hotel, table, on the boat, in the cars-until I had swallowed the last line. This is no common occurrence with a veteran romance-reader like myself." From George lilpley's Review of "The household of Bouveie," in Harper's Magazin, Xovcmber, 1860. "Everywhere betraying a daring boldness of conception, singular fertility of illustration, and a combined beauty and vigor of expression, which it would be difilcult to match in any recent works of fiction. In these days, when the most omilkwanwatery platitudes are o often welcomed as sibylline inspirations, it is Somewhat refreshing to meet with a female novel-writer who displays the un- mIstakable fire of genius, however terrific its brightness." New York: D. APPLETON & CO. !S-    Mrs. Warfield's New Novel. MRIAM MONFORIT. BY TE AUTHOR OP "THE HOUSEHOLD OF BOVERIE." Owe 12mo Volume. Price, $2.00. 'Tho N. Y. Evening Post says of "Miriam Monfort:" "Mrs. Warfield', new novel has freshness, and is so far removed from mediocrity as to entitle it to respectful comment. Her fiction calls for study. Her perception is deep and artistic, as respects both the dramatic side of life and the beautiful. It is not strictly nature, in the general sense, that forms the basis of her descrip- tions. She finds something deeper and more mystic than natuiiein the sense in which the term is usually used by critics, in the answer of the soul to life -in the strange, weird, and lonesome music (though now and then broken by discords) of the still small voices with which human nature replies to the questions that sorely vex her. She has the analytic capacity in the field of psychology, which enables her to trace phenomena in a story without argu- ing about them, and to exhibit the dramatic side of them without stopping to explain the reasons for it. In a word, her hand is as sure as that of a mas- ter, and if there were more such novels as this simple semi-biographical story of Miriam Monfort, it would not be necessary so often to put the question, ' Is the art of fiction extinct?" The Cincinnati Daily Gazette says: "'Miriam Monfort,' which now lies before us, is less sensational in incident than its predecessor, though it does not lack stirring events-an experience on a burning ship, for example. Its interest lies in the intensity which marks all the characters good and bad. The plot turns on the treachery of a pretended lover, and the author seems to have experienced every emotion of love and hate, jealousy and fear, that has inspired the creations of her pen. There Is a contagion in her earnest- ness, and we doubt not that numerous readers will follow the fortunes of the beautiful but much-persecuted Miriam with breathless interest." The All Day City Item says: "It is a work of extraordinary merit. The story is charmingly told by the heroine. It is admirable and original in plot, varied in incident, and intensely absorbing in interest; besides, throughout the volume, there is an exquisite combination of sensibility, pride, and loveli- ness, which will hold the work in high estimation. We make a quotation from the book that suits the critic exactly. ' It is splendid; it 'is a dream, more vivid than life itself; it is like drinking champagne, smelling tuberoses, in- haling laughing-gas, going to the opera, all at one time.' We recommend this to our young lady friends as a most thoughtfully and delightfully written novel" D. APPLETON & CO., Publishers, 549 & 551 BROADWAY, NEW YORK.        
         
       
   
