
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, J. Emerson. Oakridge .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7817
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Oakridge 
            
                 AN OLD-TIME STORY. BY J. EMERSON SMTH. "I say the tale as 'twas said to me." BOSTON: JAMES R. OSGOOD AND COMPANY, (LATE TICKNOR & FIELTS, AND FIELDS, OSGOOD, & CO.) 1875.   COPYRIGHT, 1875, BY JAMES R. OSGOOD    & CO. BOSTON: STEREOTYED AND PRINTED BY RAND, AVERY, & CO.   PREFAOCE. "SOME books," says Bacon, "are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested." To those who may venture to taste of the following pages, the author would express the hope that they may find them worthy of being both chewed and swallowed: as to the digestion, GOOD NATURE will take care of that. The pabulum is very light.    OAKRIDGE. CHAPTER I. "I say the tale as 'twas said to me." -SIR WALTER SCOTT I HARDLY know how it happened. Perhaps it was the bright light that gleamed-from the window; or it might have been that I was weary with the long walk, and wanted rest, for I had been quite to the top of Mount Samoset, and, descending, had crossed the narrow creek, over the rickety old bridge a little way distant, and strolled for an hour or more on Hockamock Point, drinking in the bracing salt sea- air, and gazing my fill of that grandest of views, till the night, coming on, warned me to turn my footsteps townward; perhaps I was not a free agent just then, and Destiny - of which my old classmate Grey used to call himself the favorite foothall-may have impelled me thither. Be this as it may, I found myself, on that autumn evening, before the door of a little house at the foot of the hill, or so-called mountain, which I had ascended less than two hours before. This little house, or hut, was sheltered on three sides by lofty evergreens, - fir and pine and hemlock: on the other side was the door and a single 1*,             6.   6         OAKRIDGE. window, through which gleamed the bright light of which I have spoken. My knock was answered by a kindly-spoken "Come in!" and, as I entered, an old man rose from his seat, and with a courteous gesture, and that in- describable manner, unfortunately now too truly termed " old school," bade me-  welcome," and made me feel that I was so. It was a tidy place. The floor was covered with the -whitest of sand; and every thing about the room indicated -if not the godliness, certainly that which is next thereto - the cleanliness, of its only occupant. In one corner stood a narroiv bed, the coverlet as white as snow; an open fireplace, with a highly-ornamented chimney- piece, a stone hearth, and the old time crane and ket- tles, occupied another corner; and an old-fashioned bureau, on which rested a well-filled bookcase, sur- mounted with a Gothic arch of fretwork, a third. In the centre was a mahogany table, at which the old man was sitting when I entered. Three or four chairs, a small stand near the head of the bed, and a wooden settle, made like a box below, but with a. high back, and raised a little from the floor by the casters on which it rested, completed the furniture. Upon the table was a manuscript; and I noticed that' the pen which rested upon it was filled with ink. It "had -evidently been just laid down. "You were writing, sir. I fear I may have dis- turbed you," I said to him, after taking the offered chair. "You are welcome," he answered. "Indeed, all   OAKRIDGE.          7 who cross my humble threshold are welcome; though many come led by curiosity only. For you must know,"- he added, " that hereabouts my poor old self is looked upon, barring, it may be, the deformity of person, as a second Sir Edward Mauley. If my hut were only of stone, and these woods a barren moor, we should have the counterpart of Scott's story of the Black Dwarf ' here on the other- side of the At- lantic. But I am talking to you more freely than is my wont. , We can never have met before;;but there is that about you that seems not altogether strange to me, and I feel that curiosity did not lead you hither." "Curiosity did not lead me hither," I answered. "Whether we have met before, I know not. Thirty years ago my father lived in this town; but he removed before I was born, and this is my first visit to the place. It may be that you knew my father, and see in me somewhat that resembles him." "It, is not impossible," he replied. "Thirty years ago I knew all the town, old and young. To-day' my nearest neighbor is as strange to me as you are; ay, more so. But may I ask your father's name?" he continued. I answered by giving it, - -Leroyd." "Leroyd, Leroyd," repeated the old .man, rising from his seat, and approaching me. "Leroyd! Was his Christian name James?" ' "Yes; and mine is, James also," I answered, sur-: prised at the evident interest he manifested. "My God, I thank thee!" he exclaimed. 1"I have ,   8 -        OAKRIDGE; waited for this hour, oh, s'o long I And, taking my head between his hands; he gazed long and earnestly into my face, - so long and so earnestly, that he must have seenn that I grew nervojus underi it; for he returned quickly to his- seat, saying, as he resumed it, -"Pardon me! Your father was the-earliest, dearest friend of my manhood. I have tried to trace again, ,in yours, the loved features of that more than broth- er. I heard of his death,-'tis now- nearly seven- ;teen years since then,- and through all those years, and for many that preceded them, I have lived, soli- tary and alone, in-this little house, which I may well call mine, for -I built it almost entirely with-my own hands. That I should- ever welcome- -to my humble fireside the son of my best of friends, I hardly dared' to hope. Coming as you do, you little khow- how welcome, how very welcome, you are. Let me draw near-to you again, and see how much of the father there is in the child.,-Dear friend!" he apostro- phized, " your early life was saddened like my own; but an angel came to bury out of sight your grief. Mine, alas! has never been, and in this world never will be, lifted. Alone, all- alone, I wait the hour when my burden will be- laid down, and this weary heart find rest." He haad drawn his chair from the table, and sat down near the fire; and now, apparently forgetful of my presence, gazed, it seemed- to me, a long, long time into the dying embers. I feared to disturb his revery, though longing to ask him further of my father's lifer and his, and how it was, that, after so   OAM IDGEo.         9 many years, the-mention of- his name could affect him so deeply. I have thought since that it was a fortunate circumstance, this revery of his; for it gave me an opportunity to study the old -man's features, and to fix them in my tmind, so that!now, as I :write, I can recall them as distinctly, it seems- to me, as' though I had known him all my life, and seen him day by day. -What a head he had!- massive, grand; and beautiful. Age had whitened his hair; but on his face were no wrinkles. The eye was -still :bright, the iforehead smooth, the cheeks full; but over all was a saddened expression, a look that told: of suf- fering, - that kind of suffering. known only to him who bears it,- that pain which preys upon the: soul rather than upon the body, finding no :relief in groans or sighs or tears, but- incasing. the heart, -as it were, in lead,:and making of life but desolation and despair. . I wondered how old he was.. If of my father's age, more than threescore years and ten had passed sincel he first saw -the light; and yet, as I recalled my father's looks, it seemed as if, twenty years before, he .was older, must Shave -been :older than was now the strange old man before me.- Yet he spoke of him as his friend, the earliest, dearest friend of his manhood, and- no doubt was now recall- ing the scenes of that long-ago with -which my father wasi in some way, so;- eloselfyidentified. : I know Inot just how long' it was that he:sat therei -so long, thatI finally rose to go.- -But the move, ment roused. him; A;and, having: :replenished the fire, he once more tookmy hand, and ssaid, witha -voice full   10        OAXlIDGfi. of feeling," Nay, you must not go. Tarry-yet a while, if your time is your- own. Your coming seems to me something more than casual: it is providential that you, the son of my old friend and his sainted wife (for, boy, I knew your mother well, and have mourned her death through all these years), --that you, I say, should come to me just as I had finished the- work to which-so much of the later years of my lonely life- has been devoted, and with which your family history is so closely interwoven. You-were young when your father died; but it may-be that you remember to have heard him speak of Oak- ridge of Oakridge Hall." "Indeed I have, many, many times!"I answered. "And I remember, when a boy, that I posted many letters from my father, and from my mother too, addressed to him; and I recall evening after evening in our quiet home at Fairmount, when my dear par- ents talked of little else than him. I remember, too, that, in my childish way, I used to wonder why, lov- ing him so much, and speaking of him so tenderly, they did not -some time invite him to Fairmount; and one evening I interrupted them by asking, ' Mamma, who is dear Oakridge of Oakridge Hall?' 'for -so she had just termed the, to me, mysterious stranger.  (' Oakridge of Oakridge Hall,' replied my mother, '-is your father's dearest friend, and mine. -We are hardly dearer to each other than he is to -both of us, arewe,ldear James?'she added, addressing my father.   OAKRIDGE.         " ' "Hardly 4earer,' he answered, rising, -and giving her a- kiss.  "' If he is your dearest friend, and papa's, why,' I continued, my childish curiosity excited, ' does he never come to see- you?- '( That you will learn one of these days, when you are older,.my son,' my mother replied; and there the subject dropped. But, though twenty years have passed since then, I know no more to-day than I did that evening of Oakridge of Oakridge Hall. Death, as you know, came very suddenly to both my parents; and my mother's promise was never ful- filled. I found many letters after my father's death, full of. tenderest affection, and-subscribed, 'Yours, ut semper, Oakridge!' and I often thought that I would try to ascertain something of this mysterious friend of my family. But I was too young then to seek him; and as the years went by, and I heard nothing further of .or from him, the matter gradually passed from my mind, and I doubt if it ever would have recurred to me again, but for the mention of his name by you. And can it be, sir," I closed by asking, "that you are Oakridge of Oakridge Hall?" "I am, indeed, sir; or rather, I was," he answered. ,'Oakridge Hall is now a thing of the past,. its site almost forgotten, and only debris to mark the spot where once stood the finest mansion in this fine old county. When you were born, twenty-eight years ago, the letter that came to me from. your father, announcing:the joyous event, was addressed -but you shall see it," he added, pausing. And,   12         OAK RIIDGE. taiing, from one- of Ithe drawers- of the bureau a package of letters, he selected two, which he placed before me. The superscription of the first -I recog- nized aas my father's writing. It read, 'l To Henrmy Oakridge, Esq.., of Qakridgee Hall, gentleman, near Wawenock, in the county of Lincoln, province of Maine. These in haste."  The other was addressed to" -,Henry Oakridge, Esq4, late of Oakridge Hall, Wawenock, Me.," and- was sealed with black. It was the letter in which the executors of my father's will announced to Oakridge the death of his friend. After carefully replacing the letters, and resuming his: seat, the old man continued, "Between the day of the -date of the first of those letters and that of the last is: a period of eleven years. Had you opened the letters, you would have seen that the first was written on the 7th - of November, 1814, the day of your birth-; the last on the 7th of November, 1825,- just eleven years afterwards, and the date of the death of your parents. Into those eleven years; and the five which inmmediately preceded them, were crowded- the events of a lifetime. From opu- lence:to almost penury; from  happiness to utter wretchedfness; from the midst of social life and social joys to the solitude of a hermit; the doly friends I had, :or cared to have, separated from me by a fatality worse than death; alone in ,the world, - as -I look back, and recall those years, I thank God, that, in the midst of it all, Hlost not my faith in him."  Here the old man; paused again. I had become intensely interested, and was wondering --to what-, it   OAKRIDGE.         13 all would lead. The hours, in the mean time, were moving on, and I knew that it must be close upon ten o'clock. I rose again to go; and he said, "Ah, I forget my duty as a host in this first taste of pleasure I have had for many years. Sit down, dear boy, sit down, and let us see what an old man's larder can produce." I wondered where his larder could be, and what it contained, and waited with no little curiosity for a solution of the problem. I was very hungry, having tasted nothing since my lunch at noon; and the long walk, and bracing sea-air, had given me- a ravenous appetite. Removing the lamp and the writing-mate- rials from the table, he spread over it a cloth which he took from a drawer beneath, and which, I -noticed, , was of the finest damask; then, going to the wooden bench, he moved it on end a few feet, apparently without much effort, disclosing a long, narrow trap- door, which he- raised by means of an iron ring. A flight of steps led to a cellar beneath. Lighting one of two candles, which stood in candlesticks on the mantle, the old man asked me, smiling, if I. would like to see his " crypt." o "But one person besides myself," he added, "knows of its existence; and no foot save mine has ever entered it." "That being so," I answered, "do you think it best that mine- should be the first to profane it?" 6"It is not so sacred that . the foot of a friend can profane it," he answered. "Come and judge for; yourself whether it be a crypt for the dead, or the living,- for priest, or layman." 2         .   "        OAKRIDGE. ,. I followed him down the steps, and found myself in a room of the same size as the one above, in which we had been sitting. The floor was of plank, and scrupulously clean. The walls were white with lime- wash, as was also the ceiling overhead. Neat bins were arranged on the side: opposite the steps, filled with different kinds of vegetables. Several barrels containing salted meats stood at one end: at the other was a large closet: with locked doors. In the centre was a- hanging-shelf. So far, there was noth- ing, except the neatness of the cellar, to excite sur- prise, unless it were the fact of its existence; but when, taking the - key from his pocket, the old man opened the closet, and disclosed the wealth of old wine and other liquors stored within in, I hardly knew which was the predominant feeling, - astonish- ment, or gratification. My countenance- probably expressed both; for I was then, and am "still, an en- thusiastic admirer of rich old wine, drinking it not to excess,: though not always, as St. Paul has it,-",for the stomach's sake.'  But I regard it as one of the good gifts vouchsafed by the good Giver of all, and l meant for our use; and I have but little. sympathy/ with :those of to-day who would pound morality into man with a sledge-hammer, and ,seek to change his -natuire: with a law of man's devising. "You wonder," said the old man, ". that my vaults should contain so, much treasure. There:is hardly Lless here now than there was when this little house became mly home.' Once in a great w-hile some weary stranger asks for shelter; and it has happened   OARIDGE.         15 perhaps a dozen times in as many. years that I have turned the key in that lock, and, then only when I knew, or thought I knew, that strength to the weak, health to the sick, or rest to the weary, I could help to give. "In all that time not a drop of wine has passed my lips; perhaps, because I had no one with whom I cared to drink it; perhaps on this account," he added, at the same time taking from the topmost shelf at the extreme right' hand a bottle, which he passed to me. It bore -the dates 1791-1810; and below were the words, "When we meet again,'" with the initials "J. L." and "H. O." underwritten. I -understood at once what the oId man meant, and was not surprised to hear him say, "We will open that bottle of wine, my son. Fate so willed it, that 'your father and I were to meet but twice again in this world, and then under circumstances of the most painful character; but if his spirit is about us to-night, as I doubt not it is, he will rejoice that Heaven has granted the old man's prayer, and sent to him the son he dared not seek." "Dared not seek," I repeated. "What mean you, -dear sir, by ' dared not seek'?" "Patience, my son," he answered. "Before we part, I will put into your hands the story of my life. You will open the manuscript when the time ap- pointed comes; and what now may seem mysterious will all be made clear. But now let us to the feast." So saying, he passed me the candlestick, and then took from the hanging-shelf a covered platter. I pre- ceded him up the steps, carrying the bottle and the               .   16        OAIRrDGE. light.- Closing the trap-door, after depositing the platter on the table, he rolled back the bench, and, lifting the board which formed the -seat, disclosed a 'large receptacle, containing upon one side knives and forks and necessary table-ware; ;and upon the other was a chest, or safe, made of tin, and set in the box, from which he produced a loaf of fresh bread, and a pat of butter. The table was soon laid, and the re- past ready. The covered dish contained a ham, from which but a slice or two had been taken, and a boiled fowl entirely intact. ,f   CHAPTER    II. - "A coemmoni settle drew for either guest."'- DYDoCZ. :"YouR many years' experience has taught you somewhat of the art of cooking, I should judge, if this is a sample of your skill," I ventured to rernark,/ after taking a seat at the table. :"Cooking can hardly be called an art," replied Oakridge, smiling; "for, though depending much upon practice, it depends more upon the abstract principles which underlie it, and  is therefore a science, and by many regarded as the first of all the sciences, because contributing more than any other to man's enjoyment. I am not a convert quite yet to the doctrine that the physical rather than the intellectual part of man's nature should be the more carefully looked after, and so must confess, that, so far as cooking is concerned, I am indebted to another for what of science in that regard is here displayed. The baker -from down the town, who' brings me every other morning a- fresh loaf of bread -and a' pat of butter, has orders, on particular days of the month, to bring me a boiled ham or fowl, or some- times, as to-day, both. If, from any cause, I fall short of my needs, I always have a piece 0of pork or r a piece of beef in the cellar; and there, you see," pointing to the fireplace, "are the necessary cooking 2*              17 i      , *        . *   18        OAKRIDGE. utensils. I care but little for vegetables of any kind; but, if, I happen to feel an appetite for one kind or another, there they are below in the bins. I have only to put them in the pot, and tell when they are done with what I call my 'fuscina.' You can see it there with its queerly-shaped prongs, looking ancient enough to have been the plaything of a son of -the first of the gladiators. My good friend the baker sees to my laundry also. On the first day of each month he leaves his bill, with his bread and his butter, in the box on the bench out- side the door, and there, the: next morning, he finds his money. I pay him without questioning; and for more than. a quarter of a century we have been mutually satisfied with each other. It was to him I referred, when I said that but one person besides myself knew of the existence of my crypt." I had been busily eating while the old man talked; and. now, going again to the bench, he brought there- from a corkscrew, with which he proceeded to draw the cork from the bottle. Two beautifully-cut wine- glasses were already on the table. These he filled, -and, having passed one to me, raised the other to his lips, saying simply, "In memoriam." We drank the wine, a rich Madeira, the richest I had ever tasted; and for a while neither of us spoke. He was think- ing of the past; I, of the present: he, of that last meeting with my father;- I, of this'first meeting with himn. The patter of raindrops .on the window re- called us both. "It has commenced to rain, and I have far to go.    .  :  .     , .    *   OAKRIDGE.         19 I will bid you good-night, and trespass on your hospitality again to-morrow, if," I began '.-to say, intending to ask permission to repeat my call. "Nay," he interrupted, "the rain is- increasing,. and there is already quite a storm, It would be' strange indeed were your father's friend to suffer his son to go out into such a night, as this, thinly clad, and without even the poor protection of a numbrella,  when, without the slightest inconvenience, he can offer him shelter and a bed." Again I looked at the old-man in wonderment. Ii confess I was prepared for almost any thing. But- certain it was there was but the narrow bed in the; room, and, so far as I could see, no other chance" for sleeping, except the settle, and that too narrowfor comfort, and too hard for rest. The rain was now descending in torrents; and I knew that it was worse than folly to insist upon going to my lodgings in: the village, more than a mile and a half distant, and. over a rough and hilly road, and so awaited curiously the movements of my host.  "That is my guest-bed," he said, pointing to the one in the corner; -" and you will have the honor of being the first to occupy it. I will show .you where,o for all these years, I have laid me down to sleep; and  a good bed I find ittoo. The habit, of preparing it: night after night has become so fixed, that I doubtl if 1 could sleep at, all, -at best it would' be i but. pooily, - should I omit to do it, and attempt to sleep elsewhere. You need not think, therefore, that iI: am depriving myself of yonder couch: for' your 'f     .  .   2o0        OARTDGE. accommodation; for I assure you that such is not the case. Judge for yourself.' So saying, he went again to the high-backed bench. I noticed, for the first time, that the pieces attached to the back, and apparently fixed: to the ends :of the seat, and which formed the arms, were secured to the bench- by little hooks, or hasps. Loosening these, the ientire :back, which turned on hinges, was brought forward,.and rested-partly upon the seat, and partly upon two legs, which turned upon a pivot at the top of the back, on either end. .When this was acom- plished, I saw that the back of the settle, or bench, wasreally a shallow box, perhaps seven feet in length, and three. feet wide. ; A thick mattress lay iside, kept in place by strips of leather an inch or two apart, and interwoven at right, angles. At the bottom -end, the strips were fastened to a-piece of wood set into the back, a foot or more from -the -end of the box. Through the open space the -old- man, declining , my assistance, drew, the mattress, and placed it on top of the strips. Passing to the bed designed for me, he raised the coverlid; and I ob- served- that the space beneath the stead was com- pletel occupied with two large, deep drawers, from one of which he took-two pillows, a blanket; and a counterpane, and from the other a pair of sheets.- The ,drawers were evidently well filled, - the lo6wer: and deeper one with the heavy clothing, and the upper with the linen,; and, so far as 'I: could judge, every thing .was of the best. A few minutes sufficed to, cpqoplete -the preparations. A bed-fit for asking had   OAKRIDGE.         21 been made as if by magic; and I began almost to believe that my strange host had somewhat of the supernatural about him.-. "You see what can be done by economizing room," said Oakridge. "My circumstances were such, when I built this little house, that I had to think of all these things; and, in so many years of such retire- ment as mine has been, you can well believe that I have not grown richer in this world's goods. ButtI have had enough thus far, thank God!-to meet all my wants, and shall have, no doubt, for the few months or years that may still remain to me." I had longed for an opportunity to ask him what were his means of support, but hitherto could not do so without evincing a curiosity which would have been impertinent. Now he had opened the door, as the lawyers say; and, as it seemed to me that he had intentionally done so, I did not hesitate to respond,- "Pardon my curiosity. May I hope that you will so far gratify it, as to tell me just what your circum- stances are? My father, as I suppose you knoW, was very wealthy; and I, his only child " - "I know what you would say," he interrupted; "and believe me, if I needed help, I would accept it from your father's son, in the spirit in which I know it would be offered. After the great crash came which ruined so many, myself among the number, I was able to save but little from the wreck. Oak- ridge Hall, and the most that it contained, was sold, after every other resource was exhausted; and from the'sale sufficientwas realized to pay off all I Iowed,   22'"       OAKRrDG-,' and leave me upwards of four thousand dollars. 'Il retained, also, the wines, and the more potent liquors, which you saw below. All that this- room contains, except that old bench, which' I designed, and had made in the village, I brought with me from Oak- ridge. A. portion of the money saved I sent, to your father to purchase an annuity; and he invested it so securely,- that the income, which I receive regu- larly through the post, has hitherto been amply sufficient for my support. It was two, thousand dollars only: but my expenses are not heavy, you know; and I live within my income. Three hun- dred dollars -paid for this house, and the land on which it stands; and two thousand dollars I have kept by me uninvested. Shall I show you my treas- ure-box?" " Anticipating my reply, he rose from his seat, and, having carefully drawn the curtain or window-shade, approached the mantle, which I had before noticed as 'a somewhat .elaborate piece of workmanship, axd struck with a billet of wood the knob at the right- hand side, on which was hanging a hearth-brush made of eremlock-twigs. Immediately the panel in the centre, under the shelf, moved to the left, and disclosed a'-small iron door, hinged and padlocked. Opening this, he showed me a small chest set in .the brick-work of the chimney, and, looking- within, I saw, all in gold eagles, the two thousand dollars of which he had- spoken. Besides the gold, the chest contained an ivory box inlaid with silver. "You see now,": said the old man, a" why I was   OAKRIDGE.-         23 obliged to build so much of my house -with my   - own hands. Were it to be known that I had pro- vided myself with a strong box like that, or that my cellar is stocked with-such choice wines and liquors, I fear I should not long have the contents of the one or of the other. There is less: to- fear to-day, no doubt, than there was- thirty years ago and more, when the extensive commerce of the town brought so many disreputable characters, day by day almost, into port. But I remember how carefully, in my prosperous days, I used to guard my valua- bles: and what, was then a matter of precaution only, is now an imperative duty; for if, from any cause, my annuity should fail me, but for what I have thus far kept securely here, I should be left absolutely without the means of supporti  This mantlepiece, for the -sake of its mechanism, I brought with me from theeHall. It was formerly in my library there.; and I remember, at one time, to have explained its mechanism to your father. Two or three days only were required to replace the mantle. My successor never knew the secret use of this one, and doubtless regarded the newl as an improvement on the old."      -  Closing and locking the door of the chest, he replaced the panel by turning a corresponding knob on the other side of, the mantle. I looked at my watch, and found it was close- upon midnight,. - The rain still continued, and was beating violently against the little window. What I had seen and 1:heard had  driven from me:all desirelfor sleep; and there seemed   24        OAKRIDGE. to be no signs of weariness about my venerable host. The fire still burned brightly on the hearth, and the large astral lamp gave no signs of exhaustion. Within the little room, every thing was delightfully pleasant and cheerful. I could hardly realize that its occupant was a recluse, self-isolated-from his kind, and that I had been led by chance only to seek his humble abode. I said as much to him; and he responded, -  "Hardly a recluse, but perhaps self-isolated. I seek not society; but I do not shun it. My door is open to all, rich or poor, old or young. True, my solitude is seldom disturbed; but the fault, if it be a fault, is not mine. I bade you welcome, without knowing how great a joy was in store for me. I should have bidden a beggar welcome in the same tone of voice, and, if he were hungry, would have given him to eat of the same food, and, if I saw he needed it, would have given him to drink, not of the same wine, but of wine as good as that you have just now tasted. Of course I do not urge. the beggar or the curious to stay. I satisfy the wants of the one so far as I may, and bid him God-speed: the other satisfies himself with a look, and goes his way. Yes," he added, "I do not hate my kind. I no longer mingle with them; ;not that I would not, but that I dare not. Whoever comes- to me comes self-invited, or not at all; and even you, my dear young friend, will leave me in the morning, never to see-me again, unless you come unbidden, as you did to-night. So coming, you will be always welcome;   OAKRIDGE.         25 but, were I to know that you stood at my door, I would bolt it against you as I wold against :an assassin, or a-thief, and see you die at 'the threshold before I would bid you enter. More I may riot say; but this remiember: when we part to-morrow, -it were far better for us both that we should never meet again than that I should have even the slight- est intitiation of yotir coming."  He had spoken with an earnestness itha surprised me." His' words werebi all Italicized. I could see them, as it were, in print, and they sloped towards thee right; and there was withal such an, appealing tone -in his voie as he utterecd the warning,; that the words impressed me as words never did before or since. I thought I saw that underneath all thiis lay the- mystery of his life. Therewas a depth of meaning that I culd not wholly fathom. 'But almost involuntarily the words, ," I will not forget,' came from my lips; and I looked at the old man with: a feeling of awre, mingled with- reverence. Just then I heard) the' sweet-t6ned striking of a clock. It: as midnight.  -I looked up in amazement.'e Had I heard in the room the  voice of a stranger, it would not have surprised me more. I     had seen and could see no timepiece; aid certain it was that no hour hada been' struck before. since I entered the welli ng. My eyes peered everywhere; but I could see no ex- planation ;       -  : "Arxe you wondering where my clock can be?' asked Oakridge. ' If it were daytime, you cotUd see '...  .               ?'/ ' ' .   26        : OAKRIDGE. the wonder plainly enough through the fretwork of the arch there over the bookcase. It is an ordinary mantle-clock of French manufacture, ordered by me many years ago in Paris. As it is covered with a glass case, the ticking is not audible at this distance. Before I brought it here from Oakridge Hall, I had the striking-gear altered, and removed the hands; so that it only tells the hour of twelve (high noon and midnight). It runs a month, and during all these years, so far as I know, has not varied a minute in its time." "' How do you get at it to wind it up?"I asked. ( Oh! easily enough," he answered. The orna- mental work on top of the case is not secured in any way. On the first day of each month I take it 'down; and, removing the glass case or cover, the thing is unfait accompli in no time." "If you have no more wonders to show me, I think I will go to my bed," I said to him, after a while. "I will detain you but a moment longer," he answered. "When you entered, I had just finished a work inexpressibly painful to me, on which, as I told you before, I have been engaged for many years, writing at odd times, as I could find the courage to do so; sometimes months intervening, sometimes years. It is the story of my life. Pardon me for a little while, and we will then both go to our rest." So saying, he took from the upper drawer of the bureau a bundle of manuscript, and, adding to it the sheets which were lying on the table when I entered, he enveloped the whole in a sheet of wrapping-   OAKRIDGE.         27 paper. The ends of the package he sealed with wax, and impressed with the seal-ring which he wore upon the little finger of his left hand. Upon the outside- he wrote at some length; and then, handing the package to me, said, - "4 Take these papers, my son. They are filled, perhaps, too much with myself; but you will find in them, also, much of your dear patents' history. I need not ask you to promise me that you will com- ply with the directions which I have written on the wrapper." 1 I take them, sir," Il replied, "and will in every thing comply with your wishes, expressed or unex- pressed, so far as I can know them. I regard this as a most sacred trust, and will be true to it." "I thank you," he responded. "Should you rise before I do in the morning, do not go out of doors till I have seen you. Promise me this also," he added. I gave the promise, and a few minutes afterwards was in bed. I noticed, however, before I went to sleep, that the old man. began to clear away the things, washing them himself, and replacing them on the table. "M iy cupboard is out of'my reach," he said,. pointing to his bed; 4" and I trust leave 'these here to-night." I regretted my thoughtlessness in not offering to assist him, and commenced to make my excuses; but he answered, "You would only have been in the way," and, with the words still sound- ing in my ears, I fell asleep.  In the morning, when I awoke, I found that Oak-'   28        OAKRIDGE. ridge had already risen, and that the table, was- spread for breakfast. I had slept long and soundly; and it was some little time before I could recall the events of the preceding- evening, and remember where I was. I thought at first it was all a dream; and but for the friendly greeting of my host as I rose up in bed, and looked about me, I might still have doubted the'evidence of my senses. "Good-morning, my dear young friend! I hope you awake refreshed by your sleep, and that a good appetite will make even the humble repast I have to offer you a grateful one," was his salutation. "Good-morning!"I responded. 4"You rise early, sir." "Always with the sun: such has been my habit for many years, I go now to the spring a, little way back in the woods, for a bucket of water. While I am gone, you can dress, if you like: I believe you will find near you all you need for your toilet. But I'must ask you again to promise not to leave the house till my return," he added. I gave the promise, and he went out. Upon rising, I found all the necessary conveniences, and had just completed my toilet when Oaklidge returned. Be- sides the bucket-of water, he brought with him some autumn leaves, purple and brown, and red and golden, such as only the forests of Maine produce in perfec- tion. These he handed to me, saying, "Preserve them, and let them sometimes remind you of the old man who gave them. Like theirs, ' my May of life is fallen into the sear, the yellow leaf,' soon to fall   OAKRIDGE.         29 when the winter comes; and that," he added with a sad smile, " is not far off." I placed the leaves between the folds of my pock- et-book. My eyes were filled with tears, and I lohged to throw myself into the old man's arms. The .May of his life was indeed changed.  The autumn had come; and the winter was not far off; it had already commenced.- He was older than he looked to be. D Oakridge could not fail to see how much I was affected. He, too, was evidently deeply moved. We sat down at- the table, and, for a while, nothing was said. The meal was a repetition of the evening repast, except that delicious coffee took the place of wine. He had made it while I slept. The conversation was renewed by Oakridge say- ing, "You will leave me shortly, and it is more than probable that we shall never meet again. Tell me where a letter will reach you, in case I should have occasion to write." "I am   still at Fairmbunt," I replied. "My attachment to the place is so strong, that I shall probably never leave it." -  "Have you a family?" he asked. "I have never married," I answered. "My old' nurse, and several of my father's servants, are still with me. They constitute my household." "It is better so, perhaps," said the old man; "though I am by .no means of Parolles' opinion, that 'a young man married is a man that's marred. " We rose from the table. I would gladly have tar- 3,                I   30        OAKRIDGE. ried longer; but, taking me by the hand, he said, "You had better go now. Do not seek me again while you remain in town, and, should you revisit the place, give me no intimation of your coming. You will not forget?" he added earnestly.  "I will not forget," I replied. ," But why, dear sir, can you not leave this place, and pass with me at Fairmount the years that may be left to you?" "It may not be," he answered; and a look of inexpressible sadness passed over his face. "The manuscript I have given you will explain it all, and perhaps lead you to think-me not discourteous when I bid you now, ' Good-bye!" So saying, he 'drew me towards him, pressed his lips to my forehead, and said simply, "Go!" I pressed his hand, and a few minutes afterwards was walking slowly townward. The strange events of the past twelve hours had bewildered me. I felt again and again of the bundle of manuscript, to assure myself that it was indeed a reality, and again and again opened my pocket-book to glance at the autumn leaves. Once or twice I thought of turning back; but remembering the solemn injunction of the old man, and the promise I had made, I kept on, reaching the Mansion House, where I lodged, just as the mail-coach drove up to the door. A few minutes sufficed to pack my box, and settle my bill; and, almost in spite-of myself, I was soon leaving the beautiful town behind me. It was the 14th of October, A D. 1842.   -CHAPTER III. "Shut up the words, and seal the book." - Scilu-ruins. I REACHED Fairmount two days after leaving Wawenock. Though from the first curious and impa- tient to read the inscription on the packet which Oakridge had intrusted to me, I determined not to do so till within the quiet of my own study. Thither, upon my arrival, I immediately went, and, summon- ing a servant, ordered my travelling-bag to be brought to me. Before arranging my dress, I took the manu- script from the bag, and read upon the wrapper, the chirography being as legible as print, the following inscription: "To James Leroyd, Esq. Within is the manuscript of the history of the life of one, who, long years ago, was, perhaps, the most intimate friend of your father. Written for you, his son, it is now given into your hands, with the injunction that you break not the seals till you have satisfactory proof of my death. Thirty years afterwards, should you think it advisable to publish the memoirs, it is my wish that you do so, adding such facts connected therewith as may in the mean time come to your knowledge, but in no event changing the text as written by myself, and now delivered to you, except so far as the interweaving of other facts may render such a change necessary. Should you die childless, - I   82  -  -    OAKRIDGE. prior to my decease, this package must not be opened; and I charge- you, that, immediately upon your return to your home, you provide, by will or otherwise, that this wish of mine be carried out in the event of your death. That you will heed these injunctions, it needs not your promise to assure me; and I now deliver the manuscript to you, confident that you will take care that no eye but yours shall look upon it till my death shall have made a knowl- edge of its existence, or of its contents, of but little if- any consequence to any one but yourself. I feel, that, when you have read the pages, you will pity, and not condemn, him who now subscribes himself your father's friend and yours." It was signed Henry Oakridge, and bore the date, Oct. 14, 1842. I sat for some time with the package before me, thinking of my visit to the old man, and of the strange manner in which the manuscript had come into my hands. Upon -rising to make myself ready for dinner, I was struck with the similarity of the mantlepiece in my library to that of the old man's in Wawenock. Strange as it may seem, the fact of , this similarity had not previously occurred to me, and could not have been known to Oakridge, or he would have spoken of it at the interview of two days before. But now the very fact that I had not sooner noticed it, and the sudden realization of the similitude, seemed to me so singular, that I hesitated to try the experiment upon which I had at first resolved. After a while, however, remembering the manner in which Oakridge had opened his treasure-box, I   OAKRIDGE.         33 took from the closet at the side of the fireplace a billet of wood, and, striking the right-hand knob, as I had seen him do, the centre panel at once moved back, disclosing just such an aperture as I had seen in the old man's hut. There was the iron door, hinged and padlocked; and so far- as I could judge, remembering the other, this was almost a fac-simile. I recalled then what Oakridge had said, --that he once explained to my father the mechanism of his safety-box; and, knowing how ingenious my father was, I did not doubt that he had had made for him- self this counterpart of the other. I had, of course, no key with which to open the lock; nor could I remember to have seen among the many keys that dangled at the housekeeper's girdle one which I thought would fit it. I accordingly closed the panel by turning the knob on the left- hand side, and postponed further investigation till I could make search for the missing key. This I shortly afterwards did, and with success, thanks to the surviving executor -of my father's will, who, after a while, remembered to have placed two keys, which were found in one of my father's pockets after his tragical death, and for which no use was found, (together with several other thought-to-be-useless articles), in a trunk, or box, in the attic of the house. Thither we went together. We found the trunk without difficulty; and within it were the keys of which he had spoken. I saw at once, upon his pass- ing them to me, that I had the one I sought. I said as much, and then requested him to accompany me -X   84        OAKRIDGE- to the library, where I told him of my discovery, and asked him to remain, and examine with me the contents of the safe.' Opening the panel as before, I tried the larger of the two keys: but the lock had become rusted with age; and it was not till we had oiled and re-oiled the key, that we succeeded in opening the safe. - Within was a pile- of gold and a small tin box. We counted the gold. There were two hundred pieces, of ten dollars each. In the box, which we opened with the smaller- of the two keys, was a number of papers filed and labelled, and among them the will of Oak- ridge. Another paper related to the gold, and read as follows: "The two thousand dollars in gold eagles, which will be found herewith, came to me in 1813, from my dear friend, Henry Oakridge, Esq., of Oakridge Hall, Wawenock, with the request that I should invest it in a life-annuity for him. As money cannot repay my indebtedness to him, and as it is my wish that he be made as comfortable as his unfortunate condition will admit, and knowing, as I do, that he would not receive, even from me, what he might look upon as a gratuity, I have concluded to be myself the custodian of his funds, and, under the name of L. James, to remit to him semi-annually the sum of one hundred and twenty dollars during his -natural life. With the payment of this sum I charge- myself while I live; and by my will shall provide for its payment after my death." This paper was dated Dec. 1, 1813; and on the back were minuted the payments made to Oakridge. The last indorsement was June 1, 1825.   OAKRIDGE.     '    35 There were other papers in the box; but they related to matters which at that time interested me but little, if at all; and though, afterwards; I looked for and read them with an interest which was absorb- ing, I then only glanced at the contents, and having locked the box and the safe, and replaced the panel, asked the executor what he thought of all this. "It explains," he said, " what has hitherto been very strange to me. Among the papers which came into our hands as executors was one which I will look up, and bring to you to-morrow. We could never at all understand it; but its meaning is now quite plain to me. I thought, at one time, of writing to Oakridge for an explanation, thinking your in- terests demanded it; but your father's wishes, as expressed in his will, were so strong and so explicit, that no correspondence except such as was neces- sitated' by the formality of sending to him- semi- annually the amount due on his annuity should take place between us, that I concluded not to do it. You remember the terms of your father's will," he added, -" ' that in no event shall any save formal correspondence pass between Henry Oakridge and my executors relating to matters connected with myself or with my estate, unless Oakridge himself write to them, asking for information; in which case they will give all in their power, adding nothing, 'and asking nothing.' - And in a codicil, which we were directed not to prove, so long as you should be in ignorance. of the facts relating to Oakridge, he says, ' I charge my executors to remit to Henry Oakridge, Esq., at s *    36        OAKRIDGE. Wawenock, Province of Maine, on the first day of June, and on the first day of December, in each and every year, as long as he shall live, the sum of one hundred and twenty dollars in gold, or its equivalent; and further, I charge them, that should'any remit- tance fail to reach him, upon hearing from him to that effect, or in any other way ascertaining it, they immediately remit to him a similar amount, it being my will that in no event shall the said Oakridge fail to receive semi-annually from my estate the sum of one hundred and twenty dollars in gold, or its equivalent.'" "Why is it that I have never known of this before?"I asked. "- became of age seven years ago, and more. Am I not the proper person now to carry out the wishes of my father in that respect'? Can it be that for all these years you have sent to Mr. Oakridge this annuity, without my knowing any thing about it, or having any intimation that there was such a charge upon what is now my estate?" "The reason is," he answered, "that when you became of age (in 1835), our duties as executors of your father's will had not ended. Your father, per- haps, wished that you should not learn from him of the existence of Mr. Oakridge: at least, I believe such to be the fact; for he at one time intimated as much to me. I was, as you know, his legal adviser, and, of course, familiar with the contents of his will and codicils. And in a private paper which I 'have, and which is referred to in the codicil relating to Oakridge, your father repeats his order, that the   OAKRIDGE.         37 executors of his will charge themselves, as long as Oakridge lives, with the duty of paying to him semi-annually the amount before mentioned; and that, from the funds of his estate, they set apart and invest enough to meet that requirement, and retain the management of the whole matter till they find that his son has knowledge of Oakridge, outside of information from them. That time has now come; and I shall gladly, as surviving executor of your father's will, turn over to you the securities, know- ing full well that you will see that the semi-annual payments are remitted to Mr. Oakridge as promptly in the future as they have been in the past. To- morrow I will bring to you all the papers relating to this fund, including an unopened letter from your father, addressed to you, and which was to be de- livered, when, in the opinion of the executors of his will, it should-be deemed advisable to do so." "It seems to me," I replied, " that you are a little hasty in arriving at conclusions. It is true that the' papers which we have found speak of. Oakridge, and throw some light upon subjects which may have been heretofore obscure; but do you think you are justified now in turning over to me the responsi- bility of taking charge of the Oakridge Fund, when, so far as you'know, I have no knowledge of the matter, save what that paper and your information has given me?" "Is it true," he rejoined, "that you have no infor- mation of Oakridge outside of that paper, and the facts which I have communicated? You say,' so far 4   88 - OAKRIDGE. as you know,' which leads me to think that you have information or knowledge 'of him outside of what you have discovered to-day: if so, of course I have a right to ask, and, as the executor of your fatler's will, to expect that you will tell me, what you know, -or, at least, answer my question in good faith." I could but admit the justice of his claim, and l told him so much of my experiences at Wawenock as I thought the occasion demanded. I showed him, also, the autumn leaves; being careful to say nothing \ of the manuscript which had been given to me, and to conceal the intense interest which I felt in every thing relating to Oakridge. "Now, then," said the executor, " there can be no doubt that you have learned, outside of us, of your father's friend. You have seen and talked with him; and the time has come for you to take charge of a trust which I would gladly have relinquished years ago, if my duty would have permitted. At what hour will it be convenient for you to see me in the morning?" I named ten o'clock, and he departed. After he left, I was troubled, lest, with all my care, I might have said something, which, perhaps, it were better had been unsaid.  The mystery attending Oakridge seemed to me so great, that though, in reality, I knew absolutelynothing about it, the fact that I had in my possession his own explanation of it all, - which, for some time, at least, must remain a sealed book to me, and which, in case of my decease prior to that of Oakridge, must forever remain a sealed book,   OAKRIDGE.         89 made me regard it as something peculiarly my own; and, notwithstanding my resolution not again to open the secret safe till the time had cQme for the opening of the package, I could not resist the temp- tation to again slide back the panel, open the iron door, and look upon my treasure. In the morning, prompt to the minute, the exec- utor was at my side. He brought with him a bundle of papers, and handed me a receipt torbe signed, which, in substance, stated that I had received from him, as surviving executor of the will of my father, papers numbered from 1 to 85, relating to the an- nuity of Henry Oakridge, Esq.; being a charge-upon the estate of James Leroyd, deceased, of whose will he was the surviving executor, and which charge, by the terms of the will and codicil, the executors were bound to see strictly fulfilled. He also put into my hands the paper referred to in the codicil to my father's will, the certificates of stock in which the money set apart to meet Oakridge's annuity pay- ments had been invested, and a few hundred- dollars in cash; and said that I would find among the papers he left with me an account of the stewardship of him- self and his co-executor, while the latter lived, and of his own subsequently, and the letter of which he had spoken. I signed the receipt for the papers; and, saying that he would call again to ascertain whether I found the accounts correct, the faithful friend of my father and of myself took his leave.   - The letter addressed to me, which I opened imme- diately afterwards, was as follows -   40           OAKRIDGE. FAIRMOUNT, Dec. 1, 1817. MY DEAR SON, -Years must elapse before what I am about to write will be read by you, if, indeed, the time shall ever com when this letter will be put into your hands. But I write it, that, in addition to what I have'put into any will as instructions to my executors, I may give to you, my son and only child, the solemn injunction, that you see that the wishes of your father, as expressed in his will and in certain private instructions to his executors, relating to the payment, to Henry Oakridge, Esq., of a certain annuity with which I have charged my estate, are and shall be'in every respect faithfully carried out. I would gladly give you all the reasons moving me hereto, but feel that it may be better not to do so. From Oakridge, and from him alone, must you learn the facts which I have deemed it my duty not to communicate even -to you. With regard to the payment, I can only say that it is not a gratuity, but a legiti- mate charge upon my estate; Oakridge having,. some years since, forwarded to me a sum of money to invest in a life-annuity for him, and of which 1 have seen fit to appoint myself, not the almoner, but the steward. This, however, I do not wish him to know; and as you will see, should the papers relating to this matter ever be put into your hands, I have from time to time, under the name- of L. James, cashier, forwarded to Oakridlge, - as the semi-annual use of these funds, the sum of one hundred and twenty dollars, and shall hereafter, upon the first days of June and December in each year, remit a like sum. In a codi- cil to my will I have directed my executors to set apart from my funds, and Securely invest, a sum sufficient to meet, in any event, this semi-annual charge; and I have, moreover, instructed them, in a private communication this day written, that, under no circumstances, shall they turn over to you this trust, unless they are assured that the time has come for so doing; and this, as they will know, depends upon your hearing of Oakridge's existence, and learning something of his history outside of any thing contained in my will, or learned from them. -When that time comes (should it ever come), with other papers relat- ing to this charge, this letter from your father will be put into   OAKRIDGE.           41 your hands; and, as you revere his memory, I charge you that you see his wishes in this regard faithfully fulfilled. My will, and the codicil thereto, make these sufficiently definite, with this exception only, that though the delivery of this. letter is evidence that you have learned of Oaklridge butside- of mny executors or myself, yet, should you not have met him personally before that time, I charge you not to seek further information as to who he is; and in case you should know the place of his resi- dence, or, as is not unlikely to happen, should at any time find yourself in his neighborhood, and conclude to visit him (against doing which I feel it to be my duty to warn you), I enjoin upon you, that in no event you give him n intimation of your coming. Let your visit be as unexpected to him as would be to you that of an utter stranger, by chance seeking at your house shelter from the storm. Should your mother survive me, and be alive at the time this letter comes into your hands, go to her; and such facts as she shall think it best to communicate, you will obtain from her. In my private repository, the secret of which I shall at- some time explain to my executors, will be found sundry papers' (among them the will of Oakridge) relating to matters which may become of interest and importance to you when your father -and mother and Oakridge have ceased to exist. The one great sorrow of your parent's life is that of Oakridge also. No doubt the knowledge of the facts which occasioned that sorrow, should such knowledge ever come to you, will bring much of sadness, though it is hard to realize, looking upon you now, making the hall echo with your noisy prattle, that you, too, dear little innocent, must learn that life has its shady side, and sometimes, aye, often, much more of darkness than of light, more nights than days, more clouds than sunshine. God grant that to you may come only so much of sadness as attends upon sympathy with the suffering of others! Your affectionate father, JAMES LEROYD.   42          OAKRIDGE. The paper referred to in the codicil to the will was as follows: To MY EXECUTORS, - In the codicil to my will I refer to a paper, the instructions contained in which I direct you to see faithfully followed. That no doubt may arise as to the iden- tity of the paper, I here state that this, and no other, is the one referred to in the codicil to my will; which codicil is dated Dec. 1, 1817. As my son, or, in the event of his death under age, my devisees and heirs-at-law, must necessarily see my will, or know of its contents, and as it is my earnest wish that the former know absolutely nothing of Henry Oakridge, other than the fact that such a person once existed, I have thought it best to embody my wishes in relation to him in a paper separate from my will, which I now do. It is but right that you should know somewhat of the circumstances which have made this course imperative; but I must ask you both to believe that only the consciousness of strictest duty could prevent my laying before you all the facts relating to Mr. Oakridge, and my con- nection with him through so many years. Let this suffice now. From the year 1791 to the year 1810, Mr. Oakridge and myself were as intimate as two friends ever were. Since the last date we have met but twice, and in this world never will meet again; but the friendly relations which existed eight years ago are still unbroken, and, if changed in any respect, I believe, that, upon bothsides, misfortune has but strengthened the bonds. The reasons necessitating this separation, I must keep secret even from you, my executors; and you will understand, that, in saying this, no ordinary motive controls me. I need not, there- fore, enjoin upon you not to seek to ascertain from other sources what I have deemed it my duty not to impart. That you will heed this injunction, I feel (knowing you to be honorable gen- tlemen), that I may rest assured; and that you will be content with the following statement, until time, or circumstances uncontrolled by yourselves, shall make plain what is now more or less mysterious.   OAKRIDGE.           43 In May, 1813, I received fr)m Henry Oakridge of. Wa- wenock, -Province of Maine, two thousand dollars in gold eagles, to be invested in a life-annuity for himself. I have seen fit to form myself into a quasi corporation, for the sole purpose of investing these funds therein; and, though he knows nothing of this, he understands that he will receive semi-annually, during his natural life, one hundred and twenty dollars in gold, or its equivalent, as the semi-annual payment on account of his investment. This I charge you to see paid, and, in order there- to, direct that you set apart, and securely invest, so much of my funds, in bonds' or stocks, or other safe. securities, as shall be sufficient to make this annuity, or semi-annuity, safe beyond question; and that you forward on the first days of June and December, in each year, the sum, of one hundred and twenty dollars, to Henry Oakridge, Esq., of Wawenock, in the Province of Maine, as directed in the codicil to my will. It is further my wish, and I hereby direct, that you, my executors, retain in your own hands the whole care and management of this trust (notwithstanding my son and heir may, in the mean time; have become of full age), until the death of Oakridge shall relieve you from further obligation herein, unless my son shall have learned, outside of any knowledge from you, my executors, of the trust hereby confided, and somewhat of the reasons moving me thereto. Should that time come, you will then deliver to him this paper, together with the sealed letter which-accom- panies it; but, in case of the death of my son before the time indicated shall have arrived, you will destroy the letter to him; and you, or the survivor of you, will see that my wishes respect- ing Oakridge be carried out. This paper was dated, signed, and-witnessed, and, like the letter I had just before laid down, was in the clear, bold handwriting of my father. he                   r                  '      ,   CHAPTER IV. "My name is Death : In mercy have the gods appointed me." THE CURSE OF KElAIMA, THE letter to myself, and the one to the executors, I perused again and again. If I had been curious before, I was doubly so now.  The manuscript which Oakridge had intrusted to me became an object of increased interest; and though I did not long for the time to come when the mystery would be solved, since the death of Oakridge must precede a knowledge of its contents, I sat long into the night with the mysterious package before me, vainly ima- gining what its contents might be. Rousing myself, at- last, from the revery into which I had fallen, I again unlocked the private box, 'and depositing therein the papers handed me by the executor, and the manuscript of Oakridge, resolved that I would not again open the repository till I had a right to break the seals of the manuscript, and solve the mys- tery. That time came more speedily than I expected ; for, before the spring had opened, I received from Oakridge-a brief epistle, stating that he felt that his end was fast approaching, and bidding me " fare- well,"' with the injunction that I should not seek to come to him, but remember and keep faithfully the ".   OA AKRIDGE. -         45 promise I had made. Less than a month afterwards, I received a second letter, written in a trembling hand, which I give in full:--           . WAWEIocK, March 15, 1843. MY DEAR JAMES,-When you receive these lines, you will learn that your host of five months ago is no more. Years since I sent to your father my will. If, throughf any casualty, the same has been mislaid or lost, a duplicate, with a codicil appended, will be found in my treasure-box, the key to which you will find in my wallet. The key to, the ivory-casket is behind the piles of gold which you have seen. This casket you will open when you break the seals of the manuscript hereto- fore intrusted to you. The contents are yours to do with as you please, remembering always that they were once the prop- erty of your father's friend and yours. I feel that a few days only remain to me, and shall direct Mr. Herbert, the baker, to forward this letter to you as soon as I have ceased to live. I need not add, that, by my will, what little I have, with the ex- ception of a small legacy to my friend the baker, I have left to you. Would that I could see you once more i but- it may not be. I wait hopefully for the end. Your affectionate uncle, HENRRY OAKRIDGE. An hour after the receipt of this letter, I was on my way to Wawenock.      By frequent changes of horses I was enabled to reach the town in twenty hours from   the time of starting, and, driving  at once to the bakery, learned from  Mr. Herbert, that the remains of Mr. Oakridge had been deposited the day before, in the family tomb in the old cemetery on Federal Street. I had hoped to reach the town in time for the funeral, and was disappointed that I r ^          ;   "        OAKRIDGE M had not been able to do so. Solitary as: he was, the funeral, so Mr. Herbert informed me, was largely- attended; many being there moved, no doubt, by curiosity, others going out of habit, and some, per- haps, led by memories of the past, and the recollection of favors received before misfortune had overtaken Oakridge, and made of him a recluse. Except Mr. Herbert, the-only mourner was a strange female, clad in deepest black, who came, no one knew when or from where, and went as she had come. Requesting Mr. Herbert- to accompany me, we went shortly afterwards to the little house which for so many years had been the home of Oakridge. Every thing about the place seemed to me to be just as I had seen it five months before. The floor had been freshy sprinkled with sand, and the room put in order after the funeral, by the friendly hands of the baker. Nothing was changed, save that the genius of the place had departed. C Where did Mr. Oakridge die.?"I asked of Mr. Herbert. "There," he answered, pointing to the settle. '#'He would -n)t be moved to the bed, though I thought it would be better for him; nor would he allow me to call in a physician. Indeed, he forbade my doing so; and it was not till I saw that he must die, if he hadn't help, that I dared to disobey his orders. About a week before his death, I took upon myself the responsibility of asking the village doctor, who was passing by in his gig, to stop and see the old gentleman. He did so; and, though I feared Mr.   OAKRIDGE.         47 Oakridge would be very angry with me for disobey- ing his orders, he- seemed, on the contrary, glad to have the doctor here, and talked with him long. and earnestly about his case. The doctor told him, from the first, that he thought there was no hope of his recovery; at which the old man seemed to. be, I thought, relieved. He only said, ' It is a merciful Providence; ' and the doctor went away. I noticed that Oakridge didn't ask him to repeat his call; but he did continue to come till death made his visits no longer necessary. I have stopped here every night since he died; and my son is here during the day. I feared, if the house were left alone, it might be robbed; and I knew that you would be here soon to look after what the old man told me was of value, and was yours." "Just what did he tell you relating thereto 9 "I asked. "Did he leave any instructions or requests for me, or any message or word which I should know?"             - "Nothing," he replied, "except that- I was to follow your instructions in all respects, and to render you any assistance in my power. Ah, I forgot!" he added: "I was to hand you this." So saying, he took from his pocket a well-worn wallet, which, upon opening, I found to contain a small iron key. There was, besides, a note directed to me, which I opened at once. It only said that I could in every respect trust the bearer, Mr. Herbert, whom I would find to be a man of intelligence beyond his calling, and that I need have no, hesita-   48        OAKIcIDGE. tion in letting him assist me in removing the things from the house; closing with the request that I would immediately pay to him out of the gold in the treasure-box, the key to which would be found with the note, the sum left to him by the codicil to his will, which I would find therein. After reading the note, I communicated to Mr. Herbert the fact of my previous visit to Oakridge, and told him of the "crypt" and the "treasure- box." To describe his surprise when I caused the panel to move back, and, with the key found in the wallet, opened the iron door of the safe, is impossi- ble. The contents of the repository I found un- changed. Indeed, it seemed to be in every respect the same as it was when Oakridge opened it for me five months before. I doubted if it had been opened  since. The ivory box inlaid with silver was just where I had seen it then; and behind the pile of gold eagles I found the key to which Oakridge had alluded in his letter. On top of the box lay the will, the duplicate of which he had written. In compliance with the request contained in the note, that I should immediately pay to Mr. Herbert the amount of his legacy, I opened the will, and found that Oakridge had bequeathed to him the sum of three hundred dollars. -Taking thirty of the eagles from the pile, I seated myself at the table, on which were pens, ink, and paper, and wrote a receipt for the amount, which I requested Mr. Herbert ,to sign. He read it without seeming to comprehend its meaning; and when I told him all about it, and   OAKRIDGE.         49 showed him the clause in the codicil, directing me to pay him the money, he wept like a child. To him the sum was a fortune. It enabled him, he after- wards told me, to take up a mortgage on his property for just that amount; and I doubt not that Oak- ridge had learned of the mortgage, and intentionally bequeathed to him the sum sufficient to redeem it. At his own suggestion Mr. Herbert, who feared to leave the house unguarded, now that he knew the value of its contents, started alone to engage the services of a teamster for the removal of the furni- ture and other articles from the house. I had said nothing to him of the contents of the " crypt; " nor did I, during his absence, attempt to descend into it, as this would have involved the moving of the settle, which, in its then -condition, it was not easy to do. Besides, I confess that I was just a little nervous. It seemed to me every moment as if Oak- ridge must presently return; and, though I knew that this was an impossibility, I could not fully realize it. So little time had intervened between my last visit and this, and the recollections of the former were so vivid, that it seemed almost as if the old man had but just stepped out, had only gone, as he such a little while before had said to me, "to the spring a little way back in the woods, for a bucket of water." I was glad when Mr. Herbert returned. He informed me that a neighboring farmer and his son would soon be at the house with their double team, prepared to "make a job of it," as he ex- pressed it; by which I understood that they would 5 ,    50       X OAKRIDGE. undertake to remove every thing from the house in a given time for a given sum. Shortly afterwards the "double team" drove up. It was a hay-rack, or cart for harvesting hay, drawn by two yokes of oxen; the one driven by the farmer, and the other by his son. A bargain was soon made, and the "job" at once commenced. Mr. Herbert had told me that I could store the things in a vacant room in his house, in the village; and thither I ordered them taken. The first load left nothing in the room above; and the second, nothing in the cellar below, the contelnts of which, excepting the wines and other liquors, I gave to Mr. Herbert. The gold and the ivory box I took charge of myself. It was almost dark before I locked the -door of the little house about which so much of interest had gathered, and turned away from the place, which, in the death of Oakridge, had lost all that rendered it attractive. A week from the time I left Fairmount found me again at home. The time had now come, when, by the terms of Oakridge's instructions, I was author- ized to break the seals of: the package, and read the mysterious manuscript. Since that time thirty years have elapsed; and I now give to the public the story of the old man's life, just as it came from his hand, save that I have divided it into chapters, and that the mottoes that head them are of my selection. It was addressed to me, and reads as follows.   CHAPTER V. THE MANUSCRIPT. / ' "'Tis strange, but true; for truth is always strange,. Stranger than fiction." -BYRON. IN the hope that what I am about to write may some time be read by you, and in the fulfilment of what I can but regard as a sacred duty, I undertake the task of giving, not to the world, but to you, the son of my dearest earthly friends in years "dang syne," the history of a life, the childhood and youth of which was all joy and sunshine, the early man- hood of which was mingled clouds and sunshine, and the maturity and old age of which was and is gloom, despairs and almost madness. To write even the outlines of a history such as mine is a work from which I shrink. Here, alone in the single room which for so many years has formed all that I have had of home, with a duty before me, which, as I have said before, I can but regard as sacred, I shudder at the task. Many men are living, it may be, within a radius of a mile or two, here in this little town, who have loved and lost and suffered; but not one of whom has lived so long as I have lived, loved or lost so much, or ever dreamed of the possibility of half the suffering that I have endured. Dear James, "   52        OAKRIDGE. friend of my early manhood, and companion of my maturer years, you who knew it all, and felt so much for me, how little we thought in that long-ago, when life seemed, opening so brightly-before us, that a few years would separate us beyond the hope of: ever, in this world, meeting again! You were many months my senior; but we were from the first like brothers, and, during all the years that followed, our friendship never changed. Once you would have been justified in flingingh me from you as you might have flung a serpent; but you would not, though' it was God's providence only that prevented me doing you a foul wrong, which, done, would have made the burden of my life intolerable. Thank God, my hand was stayed! and, though separation followed, it was in sorrow, and not in, anger, that you bade your poor and wretched friend good-bye. All through what I am about to write, the memory of you and the dear companion of your married life will be present with me. Would that I dared to seek the child, the son, of whose boyhood days you wrote to me with so much pride and affection! But that cannot be. This story of our lives will -be, perhaps, a sealed book to him: but sometimes I think it may be given to me to see his face before I die; and in this hope I live. To:him and for him I write this story of my life. But why should I thus apostrophize? It is to the living son, not to the dead father, that these memoirs are addressed.  I know full well, dear child, that, in writing an autobiography, one is overapt to ramble,.and to say   OAKIRIDGE.         53 much that can be of but little interest to others. But it seems to me that I shall hardly, be guilty of this fault, -for the task is too sad a one to be lengthened out; and now, as I write, could I forego it alto- gether, with a consciousness that I was thereby being true to myself, to your-parents, and to you, how gladly would I do it! But this, too, may not be. Your father's life and mine were so closelybound together in the years so long gone by, that the life of either could not be written without, at the same time, recording much of that of the other. It is to give to you the events in the lives of your parents, no less than those in my own life, that I commence to write these memoirs.  Besides, I know   that in many letters which -must have come into your possession after the death of your parents was much 'connected -with myself, that must seem  to- you very strange, perhaps mysterious and unaccountable; and I would that you should learn the truth from the only person now  living who can give it to you. A letter from yoursfather, to which I shall hereafter have occasion to refer, alike impels me to write for you the events of, my  life. I proceed at once, therefore, to the painful duty that is before me. I was born in the town  of Phipsborough, of which what is now   Wawenock was once a part, on  the seventeenth day of July, in the year of- grace 1770. My father had migrated thither fifteen years before, and first settled in what is now Rexford, then, al-o, a part of Phipsborough, where he purchiased  of the Kennebec Proprietors an extensive tract of land,and PA          '  of *-lan-.-,-..   54        bOAKRIDGE: commenced farming on a large scale. He was an Englishman by birth, of good family and had been a member of parliament, and held other offices of trust in the old country, but for reasons satisfactory to him, no doubt, but which were never explained to me, concluded to -remove with his family to the new world. Phipsborouah was the shire-town of the county, and, besides the court-house, had the only Episcopal qhurch-building and services within a radius of many .miles. Of this church the Rev. George, Bailey was then the -rector. He soon became a warm friend of my father; and it may have been this fact, together with his love for the services of the Church of England, that influenced the latter to settle in the Rexford, rather than in the Wawenock part of Phipsborough, which otherwise seemed to be the more eligible situation. After a few years, how- ever, he sold his farm, and removed to "The Point," as it was then called (incorporated under "the name of Wawenock in the 'year 1802), and having, for those days, considerable means, commenced to build vessels, for which the place, then as now, was admi- rably adapted. After- that he was engaged for a few years in the West India trade, and added largely to his already great wealth. My recollection ,of my father is very indistinct. I can recall the ruffled shirts that he always wore, the -knee-breeches and silver buckles; and I have now the watch and the heavy fob-chain and seals which were his, and which I remember to have seen him wear. - These, with other articles of value, will   OAKRIDGE.   -      55 be found in an ivory casket, inlaid with silver, in the secret repository at my house, in the chimney behind the mantle. Of-my mother I have a more vivid recollection.. She was, as I remember her, a stately personage, particular always as to: her dress, and careful to- have all the arrangements of her household in the most perfect order. Beloved by her servants, to whom she was at once a stern mistress and a kind friend, she was regarded by the village lords and ladies as a pattern, and by the poor as a benefactress, I was old enough, before she died, to be made her messenger of many errands of mercy; and I have been her companion, time and again, when she hlas visited the sick-beds of the poor, carrying to- them words of cheer, which, perhaps, were as health-giv- ing to the invalids, as the cordials and the goodies which she left for their nourishment. She had early learned "the luxury of doing good;" and often I have seen her kneel at the bedside of the dying, and breathe over them those words of the service of the Church of England, ," Appointed for a sick person, when there appeareth but small hope of recovery," (for ministers of our church were rarce aves in those early days), and I learned to look upon her, young  as I was, as a saint; and, while I loved and honored her as a parent, I revered her as a mother in Israel I was old enough to understand how good she was; -and, what of good has ever been in me, I attribute to the godly influence she exercised over me, the principles which she instilled into me, and the sound   -56    :   .OAKRIDGBE. 'sense of the talk with which she sought to lead me -to a just appreciation of the duties arid the privi- leges which I was born to do and to enjoy. Dear mother, -could you- have anticipated the sad years ,that were in store for your son, how clouded would your cheerful, happy life have been! Thank God! -you went to your reward before the beginning of the ills from which death alone can release the son you loved so much. My father died in the year 1775, just before the breaking-out of the American Revolution.  His 'sympathies had been altogether with the colonists; and, had he lived, he would doubtless have been one of, the representatives of the Colony of Massa- chusetts Bay in the Congress which gave to the world the Declaration of Independence. My mother sur- ;vived him ten years, and died as she had lived, con- tented and beloved. This was my first great sorrow (for I was too young when my father died to appre- ciate my loss); but the- keenness of it was soon dissipated, thanks to that elasticity of youth which is such a help to time in the healing of the wounds which death, as if not satisfied with taking the life of a dear one, always inflicts on the living. fI say the keenness was dissipated: the sorrow remained, and has remained even to this day; and now, as I write, I feel hot a little of that sinking of the heart which a great loss: always brings with it, and which, with me, half a century and more has been unable entirely to overcome. -. My father, upon removing to Wawenock, had pur-   OAKBmUGE.         57 chased an extensive tract of land of Jeremiah Wil- liams, a man of some eminence, who, twenty-five years before, had migrated from England with his family, and settled in Wawenock, on what was after- wards known as Spruce Point. Here, after being twice taken prisoner by the Indians in some of the numerous Indian wars that about that time were prevailing, and carried captive to Canada, Williams, having been a second time exchanged, erected a fine mansion, - the finest ip the county, peculiar in its plan, and, for the time and place, almost palatial in its size and splendor. As this residence afterwards became our family seat, and was the "Oakridge Hall " of which, necessarily, so much mention must be made in the following pages, and as it is now but a thing of the past, I will trespass 'a little upon your patience while I describe the building and its sur- roundings. In saying that this mansion was erected on one of the loveliest spots I have ever seen,- though all of Europe which nature, art, or history rendered memorable, has been visited by-me, -I but give the testimony which all have given, who, like myself, have had the opportunity to judge. But for the painful circumstances which made it impossible for this little town to be at the same time the home of your father and of myself, Oakridge Hall and the grounds surrounding it might have been, in your childhood, one of your playgrounds and one of your homes. You were not born when the circumstances of which I speak occurred. Williams had given to the place the name of   68         OAKRIDGE. Spruce Point; and this name it retained uuntil it came into the possession of my father. Behind the level plat which constituted the hay-fields and tilled ground, and contained, perhaps, one hundred and fifty acres, were many acres of pasturage; and to the south rose the high hill now- known as Mount Mor-- ris, covered with a forest of indigenous trees. The magnificent bay was in front; and the then popular poplar-trees, in long rows, stretched from the lawn in front of the house to the banks of the -river. The Hall itself was, in fact, two houses, about eighty- feet apart,- identical in size and external appearance, and connected together by a corridor, in the form of the arc of a circle. Of these, the one to the north was devoted to sleeping-apartments for the numer- ous guests that frequented the Point while Williams was its proprietor, and afterwards, while my father and myself were the owners of the estate. The other was occupied by the family. Both were of wood, as, indeed, were all the buildings in the town at that time. The kitchen for the establishment, and the dormitory for the servants, formed another building, connected with the main: house by the cor- ridor, into which it opened, midway of the arc. The stables, which were extensive, and always kept well stocked, were still farther removed. Williams was himself a man of a great deal of taste. He had kept constantly a good gardener, and, being wealthy, had spared -no pains or means to beautify his home. My father, also, during the two or three years that he occupied it before his death, was   OAKRIDGE.         59 assiduous in his efforts to improve the property; and my mother took care to carry out, as far as possible, what she believed to have been the wishes and in- tentions of her husband; so that, when she died, Oakridge Hall, as the place was then designated, was renowned throughout New England as one of the most delightful residences within its limits. The trustee, under my mother's will, had been true to his trust; and when I became of age, and took pos- session of the estate, in 1791, I found myself the owner of this most beautiful seat, with means enough to live in the style which the possession of such an estate devolved upon me. Among the servants, who, at the time of my mother's death, were domestics in the family, was Aunty Gray. She had been my nurse from baby- hood, and, having accompanied my mother from England in a capacity somewhere between that of lady's maid and companion, had always been regarded as entitled to more consideration than an ordinary servant; indeed, had come to be considered as one of the family, sitting at the same table with us when there were no guests at the Hall, and treated by both my parents as the foster-mother of their child. Her faithfulness and ability were such, that to her was left the principal care of my-early education and training; and, when my' mother died, I think the dark  valley was lighted by  the thought that "aunty " was left to watch over me. It had been my mother's wish that I should enter Harvard College; and at the time of her death I was.   60         OAKRIDGE. prepared fo do so, and should certainly have carried out her wishes, had it not been for a clause in her will, which left the decision of the question entirely to me. -She was sensible enough to know that suc- cess in a man's life depends, in a very great measure, upon the boy being allowed to follow the bent of his inclinations in selecting a trade or profession; and she early saw that I had no love for those studies the pursuit of which leads up to a professional life. I was her only child; and, of course, the love of her whole being was centred on me. The paragraph in her will to which I refer, I give here from memory. It was substantially this: 'Should my son, upon mature reflection, believe that it will be better for him to prepare himself for a business other than that which pertains to a professional life, then my execu- tor is directed to heed his wishes in this regard, and to further them in every consistent way. Though he will be left with means enough to live without labor, should he, so determine, H know that he will prefer to do his part in the world of activity, rather than to take his ease in a- castle of indolence; and my executor, the trustee of his estate, is directed to see that he choose, so soon as may be, his path in life, and that he be made to walk therein. Habits of industry, once acquired, become fixed and permanent; and I fear not for my son, if he be true to the principles I have sought to inculcate, adhesion to which I know Mrs. Gray and my executor will, in 'like manner, impress upon him." It was added, I iremember, that my old nurse was to be consulted in   OAKRIDGE.  '       61 all that pertained to my welfare, and her views ob- tained before any conclusion was reached. It pleased Mrs. Gray that my mother had thus recognized her faithfulness; and she told me many times, that she should try and be worthy of the con- fidence reposed in her. She regarded the executor as altogether a secondary personage, so far as con- sulting and determining as to my future course was concerned. But less than a twelvemonth elapsed, during all which time I was, I believe, the sole object , of her thoughts, before I was called upon to follow her to the tomb, and I was left alone in- the world. If I had a living relative on my father's or my mother's side, I did not know who or where he was. My old nurse was the last of my dear ones. I had clung to her with all the strength of a boy's affection. She would spend out of her savings to procure for me any thing my young fancy craved, and loved me, I believe, with as strong an affection as ever mother felt for a child. But, all along after my mother died, I think she had a presentiment that her own end was near; and she seemed to fear, that, when her guardian care was no longer over me, something dreadful would befall, and, fearing it, would let her tongue run on: so that with my recollections of that year are mingled sighs and tears and moans from my nurse; and before she died I had come to think that with her death would begin a long train of ills. I was sixteen years old when she died; Rand I recall now the bitter tears I shed as I looked upon her face cold in death*' It was the second sorrow of my life. 6   62       * OAKRIDGE. By my father's will, my mother had been appointed executrix; by my mother's,- Manasseh Smith, Esq., formerly a minister of the gospel, afterwards a chap- lain in the Revolutionary army, and then a lawyer of high standing in the town, was appointed executor and trustee. Immediately after the funeral of Mrs. Gray, Mr. Smith came to the Hall. He informed me that my old nurse, after leaving to each of the servants a small bequest, had made me the residuary legatee of her property, which, being the savings of many years, amounted to the no inconsiderable sum of twenty-five hundred dollars. I needed it not; for from my father and my mother I had inherited more than fifty times that amount, which in those days, as you know, was a fortune. Sunmmoning the servants, Mr. Smith paid to all the amount of their legacies. When the last had gone out, he turned to me, and said, "The time has now come, Henry, when I must put to you a ques- tion which I have more than once before asked you, and to which the will of your mother, and the death of Mrs. Gray, make it incumbent upon me to request an immediate answer. You are- how sixteen years of age; and I, since Providence wills it so,- stand to you in loco parentis. Tell me what are your wishes as to your future." "-I can, answer the question very quickly," I replied. "I want to know every part of a ship, from keelson to truck: I wish to know, also, more of the geography of my own and foreign countries than I now do, and to perfect myself in the science of navi-   OAKRiDGE.         63 gation. I would build ships, and know where to' send them, and have the satisfaction of seeing, that, in benefiting myself, I am at the -same time giving the means of livelihood to hundreds fof others. - Put me into a shipyard, and let me learn the trade of a ship-carpenter. In so doing, I have in Peter the Great an illustrious example." "Have you, then, made up your mind to become a ship-master?" he asked.     i "By no means!"I answered. ' I have no desire to follow the sea; but I would become a- merchant and a ship-builder. So far as I can -learn, the town of Wawenock furnishes as favorable opportunities for the business as Boston, or any other sea-coast town in New England; and, between this and my becoming of age, I ought to be able to qualify myself for the ,business which I have made up my mind to pursue." "It was your honored father's business," he replied; " and you come naturally by the desire to follow in his footsteps. Still, if you could reconcile yourself to the idea of going to Harvard, for admis- sion to which you are- now thoroughly prepared, and thereby gratify what was the earnest wish of your mother, it seems to me it were better that you should dot so. Think of it for a day or two; and if, after that, you are determined to follow the avoca- tion you have designated, I, of course, have nothing to do, except to further your wishes in every way possible." Saying this, the executor pressed my hand, and   OAKRIDGE.            ' departed. A few weeks afterwards I was at work in the shipyard as a laborer; and there I remained till I had become a master-carpenter, and had learned to know a ship, as I had desired to know it, from keelson to truc    CHAPTER VI. " Each staunch polemic, stubborn as a rock." - PorPE. THE years that intervened between my entering  the shipyard, and my leaving it to take possession of my estate, passed away without accident or inci- dent of importance enough to be worth recording. Mr. Smith, at my request, had been appointed my guardian, and, being at the same time trustee under my mother's will, upon him devolved the entire duty of looking after my property; and, as I have hereto- fore intimated, I found, upon becoming of age, that my estate, real and personal, was largely increased in value, and especially that every thing that could be done to enhance the value, and add to the beauty, of Oakridge Hall and its surroundings, had been faithfully performed through the agency of this thoroughly honest man. How well I remember that twenty-first birthday of mine, when, in company with him whose ward I had that day ceased to be, I went to the Hall to take formal possession of my own. It was in the morning, and quite early too; and a fairer July day had not dawned through the month. At my guardian's request, I had passed the previous evening and night at his house in the village, where he had asked several of my young companions, and a few 6*       "        OAKRIDGE., of his old friends, to be present in the evening to meet me. The meeting was' not so much of a social as of a religious character; for Mr. Smith never forgot, in his life as a lawyer, that he had been, and still was, an ordained minister in the church of God. He feint the solemnity of the occasion, and realized not only that he was about to surrender into my hands a large amount of property, of which, for five years and more, he had been the custodian, but, also;, that I was about to assume a great responsibility, and to be exposed to numberless temptations. He had called, therefore, to his house those of my more intimate friends, whose influence with me, he believed, might be for good or evil, accordingly as it was exercised, in the hope that what he might say would be of weight sufficient to make them realize what a trust he was, as it were, surrendering into their hands; and he had called, also, those of his old friends in whom he had learned to trust, that they might add to his parting words of counsel the weight of their admonitions and advice. It would be of but little interest, were I to detail what was said and done at this meeting; but I have always rejoiced that it was held, for I think the effect of it was to give me higher notions of my own duties and responsibilities. And frequently, in after-years, the affectionate though! stern words that my guardian uttered that night have recurred to me, and made me pause when on the brink of the precipice, to which, I confess, the temptations by which I was constanitly surrounded too often brought me. Dear guardian he did his   OAKRIDGE.        67 whole duty by me; and when, on that summer morn- ing, we left his house together, and, preferring to walk, wended our way to the Hall, over the haunted bridge, and by the ruined garrison on the hill (a monument of the Indian wars of less than half a century before), I said to him, breaking in 'upon a silence which had hitherto been uninterrupted, "Honored sir, the only sadness which this day brings to me is in the thought that the relations so- long and so pleasantly existing between us must be dissolved. I have no longer the right to go to you as my guardian, at any and all times, for encourage- ment and advice; but may I not hope, that, as my legal adviser and friend, you will still permit me to trespass upon your time, and maybe upon your pa- tience also, and to lay before you every thing, just as I have been accustomed to do heretofore? I would like to feel that I may still enter your office unbidden, and be welcomed as I have ever been." "You will be always welcomed at my office or at my house, come at what hour you will," was his answer. "Not only for your mother's sake, but for yours also, I shall always look upon you as I -should upon a child of -my own; and- your highest good will ever be a matter of deep concern to me. But, my dear young friend," he added, "a great responsibility is resting upon you. You have youth and riches, both dangerous; and I feel that you will need all the strength you have and that earnest prayer can bring you, and all the aid that I and your other well-wish- ing friends can give, to enable you to act well your   68         OAKRIDGE. -part, in the doing of which, as Pope tells us, all the honor lies. You remember the lines,-  \ 'Honor and shame from no condition rise: Act well your part- there all the honor lies. " '; I remember-the lines, and shall endeavor to live up to the sentiment of them: they are in ' The Essay on Man,'"I answered. "But pardon me for express- ing a little wonder, that so strict a Calvinist as you should quote from a poet who also wrote, and in the same essay,- ' For modes of faith let graceless zealots fight: His can't be wrong whose life is in the right.'" "I have read Pope for the good that is in him, and it is much," he rejoined: " the bad, and it is also much, I would know, that I may combat and refute it." "Pardon me," I repeated, for I feared from the tone of his voice, as well as from the language that :he used, that he thought me presumptuous, if not impudent. "I have been reared, as you know, in the Church of England, where the' mode of faith ' is regarded as an essential to salvation; and such a sen- timent as that contained in the lines I have quoted, is held by all good churchmen to be downright here- sy, and to taint the whole lump of Pope's writings with its bane, even as, mutatis mutandis, a little leaven "- "I understand you," he interrupted, "and must ask you to forgive the seeming harshness of my   OAKRIDGEB.         69 reply. But I cannot forbear to ask how it is that you, reared, as you say, in the Church of England, seem to be so familiar with a work which is, evi- dently, so much more objectionable to those of your views than to those of mine." It was the cross-questioning lawyer that spoke there; and I saw at once that I had laid myself open to an attack which I could not successfully repel. The snare which I had privily laid for another I had fallen into myself. So that when he said, with his Old-time smile, "We will drop the subject, if you please, with one more quotation from our common enemy, - 'Each staunch polemic, stubborn as a rock,'" I was only too glad to be relieved from  the diffi- culty of replying to his broadside, to relieve me from an attempt at which, I could but see was in his mind, while he at the same  time so gracefully put me upon a   level with himself, that my respect for him became reverence; and the lesson of those five, minutes was never lost upon me. I believe, too, that the little episode gave him an increased cohfi- dence in me, for afterwards he would advise with me on matters of business of his own (a thing- he had never done before); and in more than one instance I knev   of his following my suggestions when they were opposed to what had been his own views of the proper course to pursue. During this discussion we had continued our walk, and at the end of it had reached the point on the   70        OAKRIDGE. road where it makes almost a right angle as it turns towards what was then Oakridge Hall. Though I was of age, and had, of course, the right to do as I saw fit with regard to my future actions, I hesitated some time before asking my guardian (for so I shall continue to call him throughout these memoirs) if he would give his approval of my throwing open the Hall and grounds to the neighbors and friends, rich and poor, old and young, for a celebration of my attaining my majority, and entering into possession of my estate. Indeed, we had almost reached the bridge over the mill-pond, which at that point made the western boundary- of the Oakridge property, before I had fairly propounded the question. "By all means do so, if you desire it," was his reply. "I see no objection to it, if you announce beforehand the time for leaving the grounds, and are careful, that, in drinking to your health,- your tenants and neighbors do not too much impair- their own." It was arranged, therefore, that, upon arriving ,at the Hall, the servants should be sent out to notify the tenants and the near neighbors, that all who should see-fit to come would be welcome at Oakridge Hall from four till ten, P M. We knew full well, that, in a small town like Wawenock, news of such inter- est would spread like wildfire, and ithat, before noon- time, every man, woman, and child within its limits, would know of the intended fete. I had for some time previous determined upon celebrating appropri- ately the attainment of my majority, and had ordered from Boston a large quantity of fireworks, several   OAKRIDGE.         71, casks of ale, and, despite the excise law which -had just been passed, a quantity of wine and more potent liquors, to be sent to Oakridge; all of which, a few days before, had been landed at the wharf, and was then, with the exception of the fireworks, safely stored in one of the cellars -of the Hall. - I had also, the day before, engaged& some boys to catch, dig, and procure for me all the materials necessary for an ex- tensive clambake; and the baker of the town had agreed to supply me with the necessary bread and sweetmeats. 'An ox, by my direction, had been- slaughtered; and the butcher, of whom I had made a confidant, agreed to be present with aids, and barbe- cue him for the occasion. Of all this, however, my guardian knew nothing; and, as I did not deem it necessary to enlighten him, we passed on to the Hall, and entered it together. Proceeding at once to the library, he took from his pocket a small key, which he placed in my hand, saying,- "I am about to deliver to you, Henry, the title- deeds, bonds, mortgages, and certificates of stock, which form the paper evidence, the muniments of title, of your property. That you look astonished seeing that I have brought nothing with me, does not surprise me: the surprise that I am about to give you will account for it all." Saying this, he moved towards the fireplace, which was large and   open, with polished andirons of brass, and every thing prepared, notwithstanding it was summer, for kindling a fire. Taking from the pile one of the smaller sticks of wood, he struck a e     xo   od  h  tuka   72        OAKRIDGE. knob on the right-hand side, under the mantlepiece; and the panel, moving on end, disclosed a secret receptacle, or safe, the mechanism of which he then explained to me, but which I need not here describe, as the whole thing was afterwards removed to my present abode; and in my will all the explanation necessary to enable you to open it is given in full. Within this repository, the key to which he had given me, were the papers to which my guardian had alluded. He had with him a schedule, contain- ing a list of the different kinds-of property, which we went over together. I was surprised to find that I was possessed of so large an amount of wealth. We were some hours together, examining accounts of administration and of guardianship, all of which I would gladly have deferred, but upon which Mr. Smith insisted; so that it was nearly noon before the business was concluded, and the necessary transfers made. Promising to be present in the evening, and take part in the festivities, my guardian took his leave. I was worth on that day upwards of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and, so far as I knew, had not an enemy in the world. It was the 17th of July, A D. 1791.   CHAPTER VII. "Then cry, a hall I a hall! 'Tis merry in Tottingham Hall."- BEN JoNsoIT. "ONG before the hour appointed for the assembling of the villagers, the grounds about Oakridge Hall began to present a lively appearance. The haying- season was just over; and, as the heavy rains of a few days before had caused the young grass to spring up, the mowing-land, a hundred acres or more in extent, looked green and smooth as a lawn. The trees, too, were just then in their richest foliage, and I had never known the place to look more beau- tiful. From my library-window, which fronted the west, I could see the townsfolk as they came in little groups along the driveway that led to the Hall. Only eight years had elapsed since the declaration of peace had established the independence of the country; and the 4th of July, which had just before been celebrated with more than usual display, had afforded an occasion for a patriotic outhurst on the part of the citizens of the town, one of the elements of which was an appropriation for the purchase of a large number of miniature flags for general distribu- tion. As a consequence, a large proportion of the men, women, and children, who flocked to Oakridge, came bearing flags: they were dressed, too, in holi- -          -  73         - 73   74        OA!RIDGE. day costume'; and many of the young girls bore in their hands bouquets of flowers, which H fancied might be intended as graceful birthday offerings to me, and so it proved. - I had, some days before, organized a corps d'assist- ance, consisting of a half-dozen gentlemen friends, about my own age, and upon  whom, in fact, had devolved almost the entire preparation for the fete. I had 'given them carte blanche; and their arrange- ments had been made so. quietly and so well, that without my knowing it, so quickly was it done, the lawn in front of the Hall was turned into a play- sground for the children, with swings and hoops and jumping-ropes for the -girls, and bats. and balls, stilts and quoits, et id omne genus, for the boys. In the shade of the trees, to the right, long tables were spread, which were soon bending beneath the weight of eatables put upon them. Preparations for the clambake were going on- at -the same time; and the butcher was making ready for the barbecue. The Hall was thrown open; and from four to five o'clock I received all who were minded to call and congratu- late me. After five I went out, and mingled for a while with the crowd. I was very happy, and so seemed to be the thousand people, who, by that hour, had assembled to do me honor. The chief points of attraction, judging by the numbers that congregated, appeared to be the barbe- cue and the clambake. The former was altogetheri a new thing to the villagers, and the latter was also a novelty. iTo dress -and serve up a whole ox    OAKRTDGE.   -     75' seemed, to their minds, to partake not a little of the barbaric, and the operation was watched with intense e curiosity; while the extensive area on which. the clams, lobsters, fish, eggs, et cetera, were baking, covered with rockweed, through which the steam was rising, was a place of scarcely less interest. About half-past five o'clock my guardian, true to his promise, drove up to the door. He was accom- panied by an elderly gentleman and a young man and maiden, who, it needed,but a glance to perceive, were brother and sister, and evidently the children of the gentleman to whom Mr. Smith introduced me as Mr. Leroyd. The latter, in 'turn, presented hisi daughter Agnes and his son James; and together we moved into the house. At this hour a gayer scene than that about Oakridge Hall could hardly. be imagined.  The children were making the air ring with their merry shouts and peals of laughter; and their seniors were moving here and there: in groups, apparently enjoying themselves no less than were the little ones. In the distance a- dance had' been extemporized; and from, the window of the reception-room we could see the dancers, apparently indifferent whether the unfortunate condition of the  widow in the "Vicar of Wakefield ' became theirs or not, entering into the amusement with a, zest which was contagious.  " You are- giving me a great pleasure, a very; great pleasurer,' said the elder Leroyd,-turning to my guardian; , , for, in permitting me to, see the happiness of others,-you-enable me to forget that I   76    -     OA IDGaME. . am myself unfortunate. And surely, if any, thing can compensate for the loss of fortune, the means to do the good ones would, it is the knowledge that there are left in the world men, who, like our host here, having wealth, devote a portionof it to giving happiness to those to whom a day like this is a life- time recollection."  The reply of my guardian I did not hear. James Leroyd and his sister had moved away as soon as their father began to speak of his misfortunes; and I thought it wise in me to follow their example. Joining them, I proposed to James that we leave my guardian and his father to themselves, and go forth and join in the amusements. "What do you say, Agnes darling?" asked her brother. "Shall we accept Mr. Oakridge's invita- tion, and join in the rustic revelry'?  '"Yes, gladly,' answered the young lady in a voice, the cadence of which was so soft and beautiful, that the two-words she uttered fell on my ears like music. They were the first I had heard her speak. Weeks. afterwards the same two words, from the same sweet lips, brought to me a rapture which language cannot express. It was a- wild, wild night when - but I am anticipating. We went forth together, she leaning on the arm of her brother, and I walking by her side; and there and then commenced a friendship between your father and myself, which from that hour remained unbroken. With what feelings I regarded his sister on that day I hardly knew: into what they ripened, s            .   - ,    OAKrRIDnG.          " the pages that follow will show. I remember that I thought her, even 'then, the most attractive person I had ever seen; and Often, in spite of myself; my eyes would become fixed on her beautiful face, till I feared lest she might observe the intent look with which I so frequently regarded her, and think me rude. It was not only the beauty of the counte- nance that 'attractedk me: there was, about it an, expression of sadness, an indescribable something, which gave to it an increased attractiveness, and gen- erated at once a feeling of interest intense and abid- ng. I could but observe, too, that her brother spoke' o -her always in a tone of affectionate tenderness, hat seemed to have in it something of solicitude. The endearing terms he used in addressing her were ather those of an accepted   lover than fraternal aerely; and the beautiful girl seemed to cling to him s if she looked 'upon him not' only as her brother, ut as her protector. In a little while, however, ' fter we had mingled with the joyous crowds who tere and  there were ma king the welkin ring with heir boisterous mirth and  jollity, and had watched )r a while the children, happy in their innocent ports, the expression of sadness passed from her ice, and she seemed to enter into the spirit of the "asion with a  zest, which, a few minutes before, I mould have, thought impossible; so that when, in      ' ar walk, we had come to where the dancers Dwere all 'low with their sport, begging me  to excuse them,  le drew her brother into the set, and actually went irough the figures of a coptiradancoe to the music 7*      . *  ,             8 HE -     *            "is A   78         OAKRIDGE. of a single fiddle, played by a blind man who at that time -was the only musician in the town whose services were available for such occasions. While Agnes was dancing, though I could not say with Florizel, in "Winter's Tale,"' - "When you do dance, I wish you -A wave o' the sea, that you might ever do Nothing but that," - I confess the words that follow these almost imme- diately in the play,- "Your hand, my Perdita : so turtles pair, That never mean to part," - somehow or other rose in my mind; and I looked upon the graceful form of the young girl, and wished that I had -known her long enough to- dare to ask for her hand in the dance which was to follow. Iwas, however, already becoming diffident, and felt that it tWould be presumptuous; and so, their dance having concluded, we took our way back to the house. "It is a singular coincidence, Mr. Oakridge%" said Agnes, "that this your birthday should be mine, also; yet so it is. Always, heretofore, since my ear- liest recollection, on the return of this day, it has been celebrated with festivals and games, of which dancing was a part; and you must pardon my sudden fancy to join in the hornpipe yonder. It is a char- acteristic British dance, you know; and, as I am but just now from England, it seemed to me that the recollections of the, day would be pleasanter, if I   OAKRIDGE.          79 could number among them that of having joined in a rustic dance. I deem myself fortunate in being present here to-day; and the pleasure is increased by its being so entirely unexpected." Without giving me time to reply, her brother broke in with the remark, - "My sister, sir, is a strange, wayward girl; aren't you, Birdie? I have more than I can do to keep her within bounds. Her will is supreme; and she does with me just as she pleases. This, is the only excuse I can offer for leaving you so abruptly." "Indeed, you need offer no excuses," I replied. "It was doubtless a greater pleasure to me to see you apparently enjoying the dance than it was to you to take part in it. - So this is your birthday, also," I added, turning to Agnes.  "Mine now is, and each succeeding anniversary will be, the pleas- ariter for the knowledge and the recollection that it is, also, that of one whose presence is adding so much tothe enjoyment of to-day." "You are kind to say so," was the response; but I noticed, just as she said it, that the look of which I have heretofore spoken came again into her face; and casting her eyes around with a gaze, the inten- sity of which startled me, she increased her pace, almost dragging her brother, whose arm   she still held, back to the Hall. My first thought was, that I had been too hasty; that I had presumed too much upon so short on ac- quaintance; that the remark, which I had made in all sincerity, might be regarded by Agnes as mere   80         OAKKRIDGG-  compliment; that she' had already nnumbered me with the hundreds of others, it might be, who in her native land had poured out their empty nothings at her feet: in short, I did not know what to think; and it was not till I had recalled her words, "You are kind to say so," that I felt that it could not be that what I had said had caused the sudden change in her manner. Just before reaching the Hall, a servant overtook us, and, calling me aside, said, "The big ox is roasted, sir, and the clambake all done; and Squire Brigham says they want you down there." This interruption to the train of-thought that had been troubling me came upon me so suddenly, that I felt at first like telling the man to go to the deuce,- and should proba- bly have done so, but for the fact, that, from my boy- hood, I had looked upon profanity, even of the mild- er sort, -with abhorrence. Tom Paine's "( Age of Reason," which two years afterwards created such a stir in the world, had not then been published; and the -now famous sentence which Napoleon laconized into " du sublime au ridicule il n'y a qu'.un pas " had not been written; but, as I look back upon the scene of-that long-ago, it seems to me that just such ,a descent was what I needed. The single step which I was forced to take recalled me to myself; and, remembering that I had hitherto confined myself almost exclusively to, the Leroyds, I parted with them at the steps of the Hall, and went down to the shore, where the barbecue and the clambake were drawing the hungry crowd with their tempting scents,   OAKRIDGE.         81 The casks of ale and wine had been rolled out of the cellar; and servants were stationed with mugs, dealing out the refreshing liquids, when I arrived on the ground. No one seemed disposed to indulge to excess; and though all the guests were in a happy state of mind, and evidently prepared to do substan- tial justice to the solids, when the time should come for attacking them, I saw no signs of intoxication. I explained to my friend, Major Brigham, how matters were situated at the Hall, and told him, that, after addressing a few words of welcome to my friends, I wished to return, and requested him to act as master of ceremonies; which he consented to do. It was, then nearly seven o'clock; but, as it would not be dark before eight, there was an abundance of time for old and young to satisfy the cravings of A appetite before the night came on, when the great . event of the day --the-display of fireworks, which to most of the spectators would be " a-new thing under the sun " - was to take place. My speech was a very short one. I welcomed them all to the Hall, and expressed the hope, that, in giving to me so much pleasure, they were at the same time receiving not a little themselves. For the young H had words of kindly greeting; and I believe I acquitted myself on the occasion- to the satisfaction of all; for I remember that shout after shout went up when I closed, and 4"Health and long life to Oakridge of Oakridge Hall " followed me all the way back to the house. When I entered the reception-room, I found Mr. \  "    ..   82      '  OAKRIDGE. Leroyd engaged in conversation with my guardian. James and his sister were sitting apart at a recessed window: her head was resting on his shoulder, and he was smoothing her hair with his hand. I hesitated, as I stood on the threshold, thinking my entrance almost an intrusion; and but for the words with which my guardian greeted me, "Can you give us a few minutes of your time, Oakridge?"I believe I should have turned away from my own house, and awaited a more convenient season for rejoining my guests. As it was, I passed in; and, going at once to that part of the room where Mr. Leroyd and my guardian were seated, I was surprised by the latter asking me, without a word of previous explanation, whether it would be convenient for me to entertain as my guests, for perhaps a week or ten days, Mr. Leroyd, his son and daughter, at the Hall. "  If they can consent to become my guests for that length of time, I shall be only too happy to entertain them," I answered; my astonishment overcoming my prudence, and causing me to make use of, perhaps, the most -malapropos language that I could have uttered short of a direct refusal. I saw that my guardian looked up with an expressidn of surprise on his face, and that Mr. Leroyd bit his lip, as if my reply had not been altogether satisfactory, to say the least; and I hastened to add, - "Do not misconstrue my meaning. You know, dear guardian, that nothing could give me more gratification than to welcome to my house e'nd heart, at any and all times, any friends of yours; and I   OAKRIDGE.         83 need not assure you, Mr. Leroyd, tha:tit affords me, on my own account, as well as on that of my guar- dian, the liveliest pleasure to welcome you, your son and daughter, as my guests. I beg you to believe that the language I used was dictated by the fear, not the hope, of a refusal." Mr. Leroyd could not fail to see that I was sincere in what I said; and he replied at once, "We will then trespass on your hospitality for a few days, perhaps a week, possibly a fortnight;. during which time I hope to so arrange my private affairs, that we may be able after that, in some small degree, to re- ciprocate your kindness to us. It is but due to you, however, that you should know somewhat more of your self-invited guests than you now do; and I will join my children, while my friend Mr. Smith, whom I am glad to see you still call 'guardian,' explains to you whence we came, and who we are." So saying, he passed down the room to the re- cessed window, where his son and daughter were still sitting. I saw him bend over the latter, and impress a kiss upon her forehead, while he threw upon his son an inquiring glance, which was an- swered by an affirmative nod of the head. I had no time for-further observation, though curious and anxious about Agnes; for my guardian, taking my arm, led me into the library; and, closing the door after us, we remained for a half-hour or more en- gaged in earnest c6nversation, my part in the inter- view being chiefly that of a listener. I will not /8    r                 {/"   OAKRIDGE. attempt to detail here what was then communicated to me by my guardian, but will hereafter give to you,- as nearly as I can in Mr. Leroyd's own lan- guage, the substance of what I then learned respect- ing your immediate ancestors, and the reasons which induced your grandfather Leroyd to remove, at his advanced age, from the land of his birth to the shores of New England, which resembled the old in nothing but the indomitable will of its people, and the universal desire to acquire wealth,- a passion by which, Heaven knows, they came naturally enough; it being the only patrimony the mother-country vouchsafed to the colonies, her transatlantic daugh- ters. As soon as my guardian had concluded what he had called me into the library to communicate, I rejoined my guests in the reception-room, where they seemed to prefer to remain; and looking upon them all, but especially upon Agnes, with an absorb- ing interest, I repeated to the elder Leroyd the assurance that nothing could afford me more pleas- ure than I now had in welcoming him and his to the Hall; and making my excuses on the ground of a desire to see how the fete was progressing, but really desiring to be alone for a while, that I might think over the strange story that had just been told me, I went out of the house, and, after a few minutes' quiet stroll by myself, again mingled with the revellers, whose shouts of merriment we had all along heard at the Hall. Brigham, my major-domo, had neglected nothing; and I found him in the midst   of transparencies and torches, just making ready to discharge the rockets and other pyrotechnics; while the crowd, which was huddled together about the stand, awaited with evident impatience the com- mencement of the show. They were soon gratified, and very much so, judging from their manifestations of delight; for the fireworks, like the barbecue and clambake, proved a success. Punctually at ten o'clock, the hour I had named for the termination of the fete, the whole assembly formed into line under direction of the major; and half an hour-afterwards (Mr. Smith, in the mean time, having left the HalD, every thing about Oak- ridge was wrapped in " the silent of the night." 8  CHAPTER VIII. "No contraries have more antipathy Than I, and such a knave."--SHAKSPEARE. BEFORE proceeding to give you the facts commu- nicated to me, as just narrated, respecting jyour father's father and your own, it is necessary that I give briefly some of the salient points in the life- history of my guardian, that you may the better un- derstand: how it was that Mr. Leroyd, on his arrival with his family, should have sought him out, and that he should have brought these strangers to my house, and asked that I, an unmarried man, only that day become of age, and in the midst of a fete, would receive them as my guests. His own house was large and commodious, and had just before been erected in a central portion of the town; and at this time his family consisted of himself and wife, and but two  small children. And it was the surprise occasioned by his not inviting the Leroyds to become his guests, no less than the gratification which the prospect of having them as mine really afforded me, that confused me into the malapropos remark with which I had replied to the query of my guardian. At this time  Mr. Smith. was, I should judge, ,about fifty-five years of age. His figure was not tall; but there was a soldierly bearing about his 86   OAKRIDGE.         87 movements, which his experience in-the army chiefly explained, and a gravity of manner amounting almost to sternness, which was to be attributed to his strict, almost puritanical ideas of the obligations and duties of every-day life, resting upon him in common with his fellows. His creed, as I have often heard him say, consisted in this: first, godliness, or purity of mind and heart; second, cleanliness, or purity of person, which with himsninvolved the development of his physical powers, the keeping of the harp in tune; third, manliness, or purity of character, in which he comprehended all those active virtues, the exercise of which, while bringing happiness to others, secures contentment of mind, and, as a conse- quence, health of body to him who exercises them. "The noblest mind the best contentment has" was a moving motto with him; and he used to say, "Had Spenser written nothing else, he were worthy of immortality." The town of Hollis in New Hampshire was his birthplace. His parents were not wealthy, but, by prudence and economy, had accumulated enough to be independent, and to enable them to give to their son the benefits of a collegiate education. He graduated in 1756 with high honors, and immediately afterwards entered upon his theo- logical studies, which he pursued with ardor for the following four years; and in 1760 was ordained min- ister over a little parish-in his native town of Hollis. He shortly acquired such a reputation for eloquence, piety, and strict devotion to duty, that he had be- come, ten years later, one of the celebrated divines   OAKRIDGE.  of his age; and certain articles published by him in "'The Boston Gazette," relating to the situation of the colonies, and foreshadowing the important events which were so shortly to happen, so attracted the attention of Dr. Franklin, that a correspondence sprang up between them, which continued at inter- vals, till the death of the philosopher, in 1790. Though these two men had never met, their letters breathed the warmest friendship; and my guardian told me, that, when he learned of the great man's death, he mourned as for an elder brother. At the breaking-out of the war, in 1775, Wawe- nock Point had already acquired some degree of importance by the extent of its commerce; and its situation and natural advantages were such, that when peace was declared, in' 1783, it was thought it would speedily become a place of considerable mag- nitude. Some relatives of my guardian had about that time settled in- the town; and- from them he heard of the growing importance of the place that shortly afterwards became his home. Just why he concluded to abandon the profession of the ministry, and adopt that of the law, I never knew; but, at the time of which I write, he had been for eight years in the practice of the law at Wawenock, and had acquired a reputation for ability and honesty which had already secured him a large and lucrative business. Having thus briefly given you an outline of my guardian's history, I will proceed with that of the Leroyds, Which must be to you (now, so far as I   OAKRIDGE.   89 1   know, the only living representative of the family) of the greatest interest. Learn, then, that your grandfather, Sir Edward Leroyd, from the active part he had taken in favor of the colonists in their recent struggle for independence, and on account of his outspoken views in relation thereto, had excited the suspicions and hostility of his government to such an extent, that, in 1781, an order for his arrest had been issued.  He was released from  arrest on his own recognizance, but soon afterwards was tried, and found guilty; in consequence of which, the government conniving at his escape, he- had, at the earnest solicitation of his friends, crossed over to France, taking with him his son and daughter, and such means as he could hastily gather together, and had there remained, in the vain hope, that, after a while, apardon would be granted him, until, peace having been declared, he concluded to return to England, and risk the probability-of being again apprehended on the old charge of treason. Both in England and in France, Sir Edward had frequently met with Dr." Franklin ; and a friendship had sprung up between them, which, having its rise in'the fact of the former's ardent advocacy of the truth of the principles which it was Franklin's mission abroad to establish, and his belief in their ultimate triumph, became afterwards very intimate, when by frequent interviews, and interchange of sentiments, each had come to know the worth of the other. Sir Edward, your grandfather, was a man of the strictest integrity, and of great intellectual power. 8*   90         OAKRIDGE. Educated at Cambridge, where he had attained the highest honors (having been the senior wrangler of his class), he carried his love of mathematics and the absolute sciences into his after-life; and every thing he did seemed to be done by rule. Against wrong or oppression he set his face like a flint: in his opinions he stood fixed and immovable as the everlasting hills. "Tenax propositi " was his motto. His logic was- his law; and the conclusions of his reason, his religion. "What is, is," he received as an irrefutable proposition; but he believed-- in, nothing, the reality of which did not admit of demonstration. Ocular proof, or the -conclusions of educated reason, was a sine qua non with him; and, though he was not an atheist or an infidel in the strictest sense of the term, he admitted -the existence of a first Great Cause, simply because it seemed to him more consistent with reason that there should have been an immaterial creator, by which he meant something before matter, than that matter -could be self-created; and, admitting this, his genius, like that of Voltaire, rose high enough to comprehend that the words of Christ were the works of God.  Like Franklin, he loved truth for truth's sake only; and the coincidence of views between them, both in religious and political matters, made them always close friends, notwithstanding the disparity in their ages. The family-seat of Sir Edward was in the borough of Newport, in the Isle of Wight; and thither he had gone upon his return to England, only to find   OAKLRIDGE.         91 that his estate had been confiscated by the govern- ment, and that his home was in the possession of a stranger. His means, fortunately, were not. ex- hausted; and, though obliged to live in a manner to which he had been theretofore unaccustomed, he still had enough left to support his family in comfort, if not in affluence. Renting a small cottage, your grandfather, with his son and daughter, regardless of the warrant, which he knew was still bout against him, quietly settled down, always more or less anx- ious, on his children's account, lest some enemy might stir up the authorities against him, but- firm in the belief that his unconditional pardon was but a question of time. Here, in this little cottage, Franklin, on his return to America in 1785, having crossed from Havre de Grace, spent several days. During his visit, the possibility of Sir Edward's having again to flee his country was, of course, the subject of frequent conversations between them; and, in the course of one of these, the doctor said to your grandfather, "It is a wise saying, ' In time of peace, prepare for war.' It may be that you will, one of these days, find yourself forced to again leave England, notwithstanding your present confidence. It is possible, in that event, that' you will conclude to make my country yours; and lest, in the mean time, I should have passed away (for I have already exceeded the Psalmist's limit by more than half a score of years), I will give you letters to several of my friends and correspondents, nearer your own age than I am, which, possibly, you may find of benefit   -92        OAKRIDGE. to you. If the event to which I have alluded should happen, and I am still alive, come at once to my house in Philadelphia, where you will not only meet with a cordial welcome from me and mine, but find that all the citizens of the town are worthy of the name they bear." Among the letters which Dr. Franklin at that time wrote was one to Mr. Smith, that, to this day, is preserved in the family. It happened that the- events which he had prognosticated were near at hand, though not so near, perhaps, as the doctor supposed them to be; for Franklin lived for five years afterwards, and, the forced exile of Sir Edward' did not take place till a few months subsequent to the death of his friend. The causes which led to your grandfather's flight (for such it was), and the manner of it, will be given hereafter; but it happened that he sailed first to the West Indies, where he found an American vessel, loaded with West India goods, -rum, molasses, to- bacco, &c.,--bound for Wawenock; and in her he took passage with his family, reaching the port the morning of the day on which he had been brought to the Hall by my guardian. Mr. Cartelon, the owner of the vessel, who was the first to step aboard the new arrival, was introduced to Mr. Leroyd (as he pre- ferred to be styled); and in reply to the question, as to where Manasseh Smith, Esq., was to be found, at once offered to guide him to his residence; and together, a little later, they went to the "brick house," as it was then, and for a long while after-   -QAKRDGE.         93 wards, called, which, the only one in the town, had just before been erected by Mr. Smith. James and Agnes, in the mean time, remained on board the schooner, awaiting their father's return. Mr. Smith was found in his garden, in the rear of his residence, where he was accustomed to pass all of the daytime that he could steal from his business, in what was ever the favorite employment of his life, - the cultivation of vegetables, plants, and flow- ers. He loved to see things grow; and, though his garden-spot was hardly a third of an acre in extent, it, somehow or other, was made to;.produce earlier vegetables, and in greater abundance, than any gar- den of twice its size in the town. Through the day the sun seemed to be always shining on it, except when the soil would be getting a little too dry; and then a shower would come, which, just when it was wanted, would give to that third of an acre all the water it needed, though its nearest neighbors were, as Cowley has it, thirsting and gaping for a drink. When asked to explain these freaks of Nature, his reply would be, "Put more salt on your asparagus- bed: salt draws the moisture, you know." But he always smiled as he said it; for he had no asparagus- bed in his own garden, and his neighbors knew it. Your grandfather Leroyd was also somewhat of an agriculturist, and, in his younger days, had de- lighted to do just what he found Mr. Smith engaged in doing; and seeing him there, hoe in hand, cutting down the young weeds that seemed in their freshness and thorough vitality, to think that they, too, had a   "        OAKRmGEL right to flourish in so favored a spot, without waiting for an introduction, as soon as he had reached the foot of the steps that led from the rear-door of the main hall to the garden, he said to him, ' Let me take your hoe while you read this letter. It is from Dr. Frank- lin; and Mr. Cartelon, who, I see, is impatient to introduce us, will pardon me for saying that I prefer you should both learn who I am from the communi- cation which I now hand to you. And while I try, with your permission, to take your place among the weeds, you and your friend can read the letter, and advise me afterwards." "Let us go to the house, was the response of my guardian. "These little rascals won't outgrow me in an hour or so; and I know that my friend, the major here, would like to see if the Jamaica he sent me a while ago has improved on my hands." "Excuse me for a while," answered Leroyd.' "I would prefer that you should go together, leaving me here to what will really be a source of great pleasure to me. You can see, by and by," he added, whether I have done my work well or not." Mr. Smith did not care to leave Mr. Leroyd in his garden: it not only seemed to him inhospitable, but he feared-to leave him alone with his gard en friends, lest, in eradicating the weeds, he might be the inno- cent cause of untimely death to some cherished wee thing, which, though having the first three letters of the word, would not, excuse the mistaking 'it for 'a weed,  Mr. Leroyd saw his embarrassment, and hastened to convince him, in a way which he knew   OAKRIDGE.         95 he would appreciate, that he need not fear any injury to his pets. Picking a sprig of mignonette from a border along one of the walks, he said, "It is not surprising that I should know that this ' little darling' is the Reseda odorata, and one of the sweet- est and tenderest of flowers. We all know and love mignonette. But what is this?"-he continued, care- fully removing from the sweet-scented border a little plant scarcely an inch in height, the seed of which had never been sown by the gardener. "See I It is hardly to be distinguished, at first view, from the weed that grows beside it; yet it is the Solanum lycopersicum of the botanists,'- a plant which, though common in Europe, I am  surprised to find here. Have you house-plants?" he asked, as the thought occurred to him that he might be a little too-forward in this display of his botanical-knowledge. "Oh, yes! very many of them," was the answer; "but they thrive only because I make them my friends after nightfall, and myself attend to their wants, which, I fear, would hardly be provided for, if the care of them were left to the female portion of my family." "Take this little plant with you, and give it a, place among your household pets," said Leroyd; 'and I think, after a while, you will admit that I can listinguish a weed from a garden vegetable."- Mr. Smith saw that he need not fear to let your ,randfather wander at will in his garden ;d and saying, ts he took the plant, I go, since you will have it o, passed with Mr. Qartelon into the house.   96        OAKRIDGE. The letter which Dr. Franklin had written to my guardian was something more than one of introduc- tion merely. It told him much of the history of Sir Edward, and spoke feelingly of the friendship which for so many years had existed between them. "I know," he said in conclusion, " that you will find in my friend a man of congenial mind, and that any favors you may feel disposed to show him, at first it may be, on my account, you will shortly be glad to add to on his own. Devotion to the cause to which so many of the years of your life and of mine have been given, makes him an exile from the land of his birth and of his love ; and though, like Marcellus, he may feel more true joy in exile than were he the king who expatriates him, yet I ask for -him your tenderest sympathy, and a cordial welcome to the land of his forced adoption. "With great and sincere respect and esteem, I have the honor to be, reverend sir, your most obedi- ent and most humble servant, -C B. FRANKLIN." Mr. Smith could hardly wait until he had con- cluded the reading of the letter, before seeking your grandfather, and assuring him of the pleasure it gave him to grasp by the hand a friend of the great man whose- recent death, he, in common with all his compatriots, was deploring as a national calamity, while to himself, individually, it was a loss of a peculiarly personal character. Mr. Cartelon, to whom, after what was said by Mr. Leroyd in the   OAKRIDGE.          97 garden, he had felt authorized to make known the contents of the letter, was also impatient to assure your grandfather of his sympathy, and to tender to him such aid as it might be in his power to render. The position of Mr. Cartelon was at that time a com- manding one. His great wealth, known integrity, and extensive business connections at home and abroad, made him, perhaps, the most influential man in that section of the country; and your grandfather could hardly have found other- two persons in all New England, whose active friendship it would have been more for his interest to enjoy. You will see, hereafter, that it was a fortunate circumstance, pecu- niarily at least; that, of the letters given to him by Dr. Frankllin, that to my guardian should have been the first delivered. Returning to the garden, Mr. Smith found Sir Edward diligently at work, his coat hanging on the branch of a tree, and the- perspiration standing in big drops on his forehead. I need not assure you of the cordiality of the welcome with which the former greeted your grandfather, nor of the sincerity with which Mr. Cartelon proffered his services, if, in any way, he could be of assistance to him. Volunteer- ing to see that the son and daughter, who had re- mained on board -"The Eliza," were safely landed, and brought to their father at Mr. -Smith's, Mr. Car- telon left the house; and immediately, thereupon, Sir Edward said to his host, "I feel deeply grateful to you, my dear sir, for the kindness already shown me, and for the aid so freely offered both by yourself 9   98        OAKERIDGE. and your friend, and of which I shall not hesitate to avail myself by and by but now I wish to consult you on a matter of pressing importance, involving the happiness, and, I fear, the health, of my daugh- ter, and beg your patience while I explain the cir- cumstances which impel me to ask your counsel and assistance." Your grandfather then narrated the following facts, which I give, as nearly as I can now recall them, 'in his own language, as repeated to me by my guardian. "Only a few months prior to;' my leaving England, Agnes, my daughter, had unfortunately attracted the attention of an Irish gentleman named Delaney, a widower with one child, who from early manhood to middle age, which he had reached,-had been regarded, by all who knew him in Newport, as a man of violent passions and vindictive temper, whose society was to be avoided, and of whom no good could be' spoken. Years before, he had been a physician of great reputation for so young a man; and those who were disposed to excuse, rather than to aggravate, attributed to his grief at the loss: of his wife (a lovely woman, who died in giving birth to the child) the violence of his passions and the vindic- tiveness of his temper. 'It may be that this was a true explanation; for it was generally believed, that, for ten years after the death of his wife, he shut him- self up in his house, refusing to see any one, except his child and its nurse,' and- through all these years passing his time in pouring out maledictions, even cursing his God in his madness; so that, when he once   OAITDGnE.         99 more walked among his fellow-men, the reputation he had acquired, so clung to him, that, had he been -a murderer, his presence would not have been more carefully avoided. Everybody shunned him, and he knew it; but this seemed to affect him but little, if at all. Day after day, accompanied by his son, he would walk through the principal street of the town, always between the hours of two and four o'clock in the afternoon; and this habit he continued for several years, till, at the time of which I speak, the boy had attained the age of sixteen. Delaney was, perhaps, forty. "It happened during one of these daily walks, that my daughter Agnes, then but sixteen years old, though as mature in body and mind as many young ladies of twenty, through some mischance, slipped and fell upon the sidewalk, injuring her to such an extent that she was unable to rise, just as Mr. Dela- ney and his son were passing along the way. The former at once hastened to her assistance; and learn- ing from Agnes the place of her residence (which, fortunately, was but a little way distant), with the assistance of his son, carried her in a chair, which he procured from the nearest tenement, to her home. A skilful surgeon as he was, he could but offer his services, which I was only too glad to accept. The trouble proved to be a dislocation of the ankle, which was soon reduced, the splints applied; and Delaney, refusing to take the offered fee, and saying that nothing further was needed but patience, took his leave. Agnes was confined to her bed for twenty   100        OAKtRIDGE. days, and was not allowed to use her foot for several, weeks after she was permitted to sit up. During the first two or three weeks of this time,: Dr. Delaney had been only occasionally to see-her; but, after-- ward, I noticed that his visits increased in frequency in an inverse ratio to: the necessity of them. This:I did not regret, as I found that he was a man of grqat- culture and refinement, andc that his son, by whom he was always accompanied, was a -modest youth, of excellent deportment, fine form and features, and evidently possessed of more common-sense than is usually found in boys of his age. I hardly knew at that time just what to think of the father, though, on the whole, I liked him: but the son I regarded as a lad of great promise; and, if his life shall be spared,. the world, I doubt not, will one day hear of him." [Here the manuscript was scarcely legible. It was with great- difficulty that the last few lines could be deciphered. The old ian's tears had nearly blotted out -the words.]        - "Almost from the first, Agnes had conceived such an aversion to the doctor, that though she could not but feel grateful to him for his kindness in offering his assistance, and in his efforts for her relief, she begged me, after, the eighth week had passed, and, his visits still continued, to inform him that they were no longer necessary. I may seem ungrate- ful, papa,' she added,' Ibut, believe me, I cannot see that man again: it will kill me. Besides, I am now quite recovered, and have no further need of his services.' At the same time, regardless of my remon-   OARIDGi  .        i01 strances, she rose from: the -easy-chair in which she had been sitting, and walked, apparently without any disconforrt, -across the room, and back to her seat. 'I am coming down to pour out" the tea for you this evening,': she continued: ' I believe I might have done so with perfect ' safety a f6rt night since. Why that man should have kept me penned: up here all- this while, I can?'t imagine; -but don't let him come any more. -When he looks at me, I feel- :as 'I fancy a little bird does when a snaIke is trying 'to charm it; and, when lie touches my foot, a cold shud- der runs through me, and I feel like deaths: "' He shall not see you again, darling,' I answered, 'if his presence is so disagreeable to you. ' I will write him a note, and tell him, that, having entirely recovered, his- further visits to you are unneces- sary.' "' Say that you do it at my request, and let him know, if you please, that H thin'k he has intention- ally kept me penned' up for a fortnight after I was well enough;, atleast- to ride' out. Lay the whale cause of his dismissal upon me.   Tell him that!" hate him: tell him any thing. I care not what you say, if it only effects the purpose.' "I promised to comply-with her request to dis- charge Dr. Delaney, and did- despatch a note to him in the mornings saying that my daughter had entirely recovered, and wished me to say that his visits, therefore, were no longer necessary. I at the same time requested him   to accept, as a remembrance friom me, a gold- snulff-box setwith: gems, which I 9*   102        OAKRIDGE. forwarded with the note. He had refused to take, for his services any fee whatever; and I sought in this way, though in no unfriendly spirit, to relieve myself of an obligation. i had had the box made for him. "The doctor answered the note in person. I saw, as he entered the room, that he was laboring under great .excitement; that it was: with' difficulty he could restrain the passion that was making the blood boil in his veins. But he did so far control himself as to ask, in a voice apparently calm and natural, whether I had intended to insult him- by the pecu- liar phraseology of my letter, and especially by the 'remembrance'. as I had seen fit to call it, which accompanied it. "I hastened to assure him that nothing could be further from my thoughts; that Hfelt grateful to 'him for his kindness, and regarded him as a friend; that I had sent him the snuff-box, because I had had it made for him, and really wished him to accept- it, and ended by saying that I should always be glad to see him, over the chess-board; or elsewhere. I was sincere in what I said; for, as I just now re- marked, I rather liked the man, and regarded my daughter's aversion as a girlish freak. "' I feared it might be otherwise,' he responded; and the clouds began to disappear from his face. I feared that this elegant present, which I accept with thanks, was sent to me because, and only because, I had declined to take money for theV little service it was in my power to render. 'I have been so long   OAKRIDGE.   '      103 confined to the sole companionship of my son, who only now has reached an age when such companion- ship can afford any pleasure save such as natural affection brings, wlich is much, that the minutes I have passed withi you, and in attendancee upon your daughter, have been to me grateful oases in the arid desert of my life. To think that I haid been only tolerated. ex Inecessitate rei by a household in- every member of whch--father, son, and daughter :-I had become so interested, that 'the evil passions Which had so long held sway over me were at last yielding to my nobler manhood; and to feel, just as I began to realize that there might .be, after all, something of good left in me, that the only family I was permitted to visit could join in the hue and cry againstT me (a man who never harmed living thing, and whose only fault is, his misfortunes), 'and ' so summarily cast me out, -was more than I could bear. -I came to you,- therefore, this evening, almost wild with passion., I leave you no w calmer than I had dared to believe possible, but still, unfit to say to you what to-morrow, if you will afford me the opportu- nity, I should like to communicate. At what hour can I see you-?'  "' I shall be at home- all the day,' I answered. 'Come at such hour as, best suits your conven- ience.' "' Can I see your daughter now for a moment?' asked the doctor. WI have .with me a lotion which   - she will find of benefit, if her ankle should become troublesome, as I fear it may from a too hasty use of her limb.'   104        OAIRRDGE, "' Not to-day,' I answered. She feels so indignant at being so long -confined to her- chamber, that, in her indignation, she actually believes that youi have purposely kept: her ', penned--up,"as: she expresses it, -though at a loss to imagine why; and I fear that she regards you just now with more of hate than of gratitude,'and would hardly care to see you to-day, or, at any- time. Doctors, you know, are always more or less ogres to their patients, and- especially so to the young.' "'Hate and Love are twin-sisters,' said the doctor, rising, and preparing .to go; 'and the one -often follows at the heels of the other. I think vI see through it all. Your daughter has learned who I am, and mistrusts me. I do not wonder at it; for all Newport does the same. Still, I had rather haves her hate than her indifference, and you may tell her so.' ' I went with him as,far as the gate of the lodge. It was evident to me that he was not altogether satisfied with the result of the interview. I had noticed, before he left the house, that the veins of his forehead were again distended, and that the expres- sion of his countenance was forbidding in the ex- treme. It was with a feeling of relief that I parted with him at the gate. I no longer liked him: I feared him, and looked forward to the interview of the morrow with no little apprehension. Yet in what he had said, or in what he had done, I -could recall nothing with which to find fault. He knew how to act the gentleman, to say the least; and I i    OAKRIDGE.        105 could but admit, that, in what he had told me in explanation of his feelings upon receiving the note I had sent him, he had shown no lack of dignity or of sense. Still there was something in what he added. that seemed to me jesuitical; and when joined to that was the stern tone of Ilis voice and the expres- sion of his countenance, which, especially forbidding when he came, was scarcely less so when he de- parted, I began to understand the reasons of the antipathy with which Agnes had all along regarded him. He was a hypocrite and a knave, or both my daughter and myself were doing 'him a great in- justice." r   CHAPTER IX. "Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned." - CONGEVE. "Ar'irE the doctor left," Sir Edward continued, "I-went immediately to my daughter's room, and communicated to her the fact of the doctor's call, and what had transpired at the interview. "'Why did you make an appointment with him for to-morrow?' asked Agnes. 'Could you not fore- see what will be the result of it? It was to avoid the very thing that you are precipitating, that I spoke so strongly about forbidding him the house. He will ask you for my hand; and you may tell him, that, anticipating the purpose of his visit, I had spoken with' you on the subject,. and respectfully decline, what you may call, the honor.' "' I had not thought of this,' I answered. ^' What reasons have you for supposing that Delaney intends toask for your hand?' "My reasons may be the result of my fears,' was the answer; 'but, if they are, I shall' be only too glad to know it.  O father ' she added, 'shun that man: don't meet him to-morrow; don't meet him at any time. Cast him off; send word to him that the interview can result in no good, and must not take place. Tell him that I hate him, hate him, 106   OAKRIDGE. .       107 hate him I Tell him any thing, only don't let him come here again; if you love me, don't!' "'Why, my daughter,' I' answered, ' what means this undue excitement? Has the doctor said or done any thing in his visits heretofore, that author- izes such a conclusion? Tell me just what has hap- pened, that I may know how to meet the man when he comes here to-morrow, or at least may give him a reason for refusing to meet-him, should I conclude to send him word not to come.' "' I can give you no reason other than that I hate him. I can recall nothing that he has said of which I can: complain. He has been the perfection of politeness, and has treated me always with a thor- ough lack of roughness, with tenderness even; and his voice is like music. But he looks at me, looks at me, looks at me! and when he looks at me I hate him!' was the impassioned response. "I saw that there was no help for it, and. that I must promise my daughter to put an end to the doc- tor's visits at once. This I did, and then endeavored to compose some sentence of dismissal, which, if not satisfactory, would at least accomplish the object. I thought it better to follow tAgnes's suggestion not to meet Delaney, and accordingly sent a second note, the wording of which I cannot now recall, but which I couched in such terms as I thought best- calculated to prevent a repetition of his visits. It had, how- ever, exactly the contrary effect; and the doctor was at the door almost before I thought the servant had had time to deliver the note. Withoutwaiting for   OAKRIDGE. the porter to announce him, he opened the door, passed into the hall, and came at once to the library. As he entered the room, I could see that he was laboring under great excitement, though evidently, as at the last interview, making a strong effort to restrain his passion. Approaching the table at which I was sitting, he -threw upon it the two notes I had written him, saying,- "' I leave those there, Sir Edward, and with them one to which I shall expect an answer on or before this day fortnight. You will see that I have it.' "Before I had times to reply, Hugh Delaney had passed out of the room. I took up the note which he-had laid with the others, and found that it was addressed to-' The Father of Agnes Leroyd.? It was a beautifully-worded epistle, containing, first, a for- mal proposal for the hand of my daughter, a state- ment of the amount of his property, and in what it consisted, and an offer to settle upon Agnes the sum of twenty thousand pounds as a marriage-portion. ' I shall send my son two weeks from to-day, at noon, for your reply,' the note concluded, 'unless, in the-mean time, I shall receive a favorable response from you.' "'It was at first a serious question with me, whether I should inform my daughter of this pro- posal, or not; but I finally concluded to do so, and accordingly went to her room, and laid the document before her. "' I will answer it myself,' she said, with a calm- ness that surprised me, remembering the excitement she had manifested in view of the possibility of the   doctor's asing for her-hand. That she did answer it, I subsequently learned: but just what reply she made I do not know; for, when I attempted to ques- tion her in relation to it, she requested that I would not then, or at any future time, mention the subject; and I have never, with this single exception, alluded to it since. ' Punctually, at the hour indicated by the doctor, his son was at the door. I knew when the knocker sounded that it announced the arrival of Delaney's messenger, and was not surprised when a servant put into my hands a note from the doctor, asking for a ieply to his communication of a fortnight before. Like the former, it was couched in the most respectful and appropriate language, and con- tained nothing in the slightest degree objectionable. I felt almost provoked that he had given me no opportunity to treat his communication with the dis- dain which his singular persistence and most unac- countable behavior seemed to merit. I didn't know what to make of the man. He was sui generis, a nondescript; yet, while I was at a loss to klnow just what to think of him, I couldn't but feel a sort of admiration for one, who, however strange his con- duct, so evidently lived up to the sentiment of a verse of that old and apropos song, 'My Dear and, Only Love,'-   10   ' He either fears his fate too-much, Or his deserts are small, Who dares not put it to the touch To gain or lose it all.'    "O        OAKIDGE. "I did -not submit this last note to-- Agnes, but concluded to answer it, as I could not well do other- wise without leaving an impression on my own mind that I had not treated the gentlemanly and dignified letter of the doctor (which, after all,e only asked- for an answer to the question whether he must return to the life of a hermit, and be 'again isolated from the world about him) with the con- sideration which a decent respect to the require- ments of common courtesy, even, seemed to demand. I accordingly wrote him a short note, regretting that he should have renewed a proposal which he must have known could be answered in but one way; land -assurilg him, that, while it was impossible he could ever sustain towards me a nearer relationship, I hoped always to be on friendly terms with one who had rendered such valuable assistance to me and' mine. "1 To this note came a reply, sent, also, by his son, Pin which Delaney threatened, that, as my daughter had seen fit to blast his, hopes of again becoming -what he once -was, it would be no fault of his if she,- who had scorned the love of "a man who would have worshipped her, did not live to repent it. He concluded his letter thus: You - told -me once she hated me: she shall learn that there is- no hate -like love to hatred turned. I will -be to her a Nemesis, and, lest a. too early death prevent my being my own avenger, I will -teach my son to avenge his father's wrongs. Let- Agnes Leroyd beware! Though she flee to .the uttetrmost: partsof the earth,   OAERIDGE.         1" my shadow shall cover her footprints; and sooner or later she shall beg as a boon what she- now rejects as an insult.' With this note came, also, the snuff- box. In view of the circumstances, I was' not sur- prised at his returning it. "6 Three months passed away; and nothing occurred to disturb the every-day life of our quiet household, till I received, from a friend then occupying a: prom- inent position in the government, a letter, notifying me that the fact of my being at Newport had been brought to the knowledge of the- department in such a manner, that it- was more than probable that the old proceedings would be revived against me; and advising me to govern myself accordingly. For a while I could not imagine who -could be at the bottom of this persecution: but a little reflection led me to suspect that tthis- was the first movement on the part of the doctor; and I could readily perceive why he should desire to get rid of the father, before attempting to carry out- his designs upon-the daugh- ter. I knew that my friend would keep me advised of what was being done in the matter of the informa- tion against me; and, though I took care to make every preparation for a sudden departure that I could make without exciting suspicion, still, so long a time had elapsed, I did- not believe that the government could be brought to take any active measures in the matter, H was mistaken, however; and, within a week from the time I received the first notification, a "second letter :came, advising me that my arrest had -been decided :upon, and that: I had   "2        OAKRIDGBE., better seek safety in flight, as powerful influences had been brought to bear, and the result might be disastrous. "',Fortunately the ship' Galatea' was then lying in the Cowes, and was just on the eve of departure for the West Indies. In her I took passage, accom- panied by my son and daughter. We had a long and boisterous voyage, but arrived safely at Havana, where we found' The Eliza' ready to sail, and bound for this port. As soon as I learned that her destina- tion was Wawenock, I remembered the letter from Dr. Franklin to yourself, written in anticipation of just such a contingency as had happened to me, and immediately engaged passage for myself and children. And now comes the saddest part of all these troubles. My daughter insists, that, among the sailors on board ' The Eliza,' she recognized Delaney, and, in one of the cabin-boys, his son. I do not think she is correct in her suspicions; for though I can trace somewhat, though very little, of a likeness to the son in John the cabin-boy, I cannot see the least resemblance to the doctor in any of the seamen, though I have studied the faces of them all long and carefully. Agnes, however, is so impressed with the belief that the doctor and his son are on board the schooner that I desire to remove her for some little distance from the town; myself and son, if it can be so arranged, accompanying her, where we can remain for a few  days in retirement. As the vessel has not yet hauled into the wharf, and the seamen are all aboard, if Agnes's suspicions should   OARITDGaE.        1i prove well founded, Delaney upon landing, and not finding either of us at any inn or private house in the village, will probably conclude that we have started at once for Boston or New York, and think to follow us there. - Do you know," he concluded, "of such a place of refuge? Foolish as I regard the whole thing myself, I am willing and anxious, for my daughter's sake, to adopt the only plan which: seems to me calculated to dissipate her fears.: In the mean time Awe can- take measures tot ascertain what becomes of the supposed doctor and his son." Such was the narrative of your grandfather, as repeated to me by my guardian, and sufficiently ex- plains why the- latter should  have brought tSir Edward and-his family to Oakridge Hall. He had told me at the interview, that he had sugested to Mr. Leroyd, as a place of temporary abode, the house of his ward, assuring him that he would: meet with a cordial welcome, and find me, in'spite of my youth, an agreeable companion and -generous host- and that, upon Mr. Leroyd's hesitating to follow his- suggestion, he had prevailed upon him to do so9 by impressing upon him the necessity, for- his daughter's sake, of carrying out his plan before "The EFliza" hauled into the dock; which last argument decided him to act at once; and, as a consequence; Agnes Leroyd passed her first night on the soil of the New World under the roof of Oakridge Hall. 1O       *    CHAPTER X. "His face all tanned with scorching, sunny ray." - SPENSER. MANY of the incidents and facts thafI am about to record were made known to me by Agnes herself, some time subsequent to their occurrence; some were within my own personal knowledge, or gleaned from the officers and sailors of "The Eliza;" and others were communicated by such of the townsfolk as remembered some circumstance or other connected with the tragical events, after their occurrence had become a matter of public notoriety. It may be, that, in some instances, I have drawn slightly upon my Imagination; but it has only been where, from the surrounding circumstances, and the facts actually within my knowledge, there could be but one reason- able conclusion as to what was probably done or said. If, therefore, I hereafter follow the several characters who play so important parts in this tragedy of my' life, through all- the scenes as though I had been an eye-witness and an.,ear-witness of it all, it is because I prefer to narrate the events in the order of their occurrence, rather than as the facts connected with them came to my knowledge. I have thought it best, therefore, to make this explanation once for all at the threshold of what may be regarded as the "4                    l   OAKRIDGE.        115 story of my life (the preceding pages having been" devoted chiefly to a narration of events in the lives of others), in order to avoid giving, from time. to time, the sources of information from which the facts were derived, as I detail them in the pages that are to follow. The suspicions- of Agnes Leroyd were, -unfortu- nately, but too well grounded. Delaney, who, as has been already intimated, was a man of large wealth, was no sooner informed of the flight of Sir Edward, who with his family had gone on board the' vessel only at the instant of departure, than he fitted out, at his own expense, a fast-sailing schooner, "The Lapwing," and within forty-eight hours was following in the wake of the fugitives. He had learned the destination of "The Galatea" from the records of the Custom House; and' the only order he gave was to reach Havana at the earliest possible moment. The' sailing-qualities of the schooner were so much supe- rior to those of the ship, that the former had been for some days 4n the harbor of Havana before "The Galatea" arrived. Delaney had improved the in- terim in completing a disguise, which he had in part effected by cutting his hair, permitting his beard to grow, and constantly exposing himself, on the voyage and after his arrival, to the scorching rays of the sun, till his pale face, white hands and arms, had become all tanned; and when added to this was the sailor's costume which he wore, no one would have recognized him as the same person, who forty days before had left the Isle of Wight, in dress, air, and ! c   ;t16      - - OAKRIDdE. ' speech, every inch a gentleman. On the voyage over, he had devoted himself with assiduity to learning -what he could of seamanship,' assisting in the furling 'and unfurling of the sails, taking his turn at the helm, and generally-performing the duties pertaining to the station of a common sailor. The son, too, was -nearly as much changed in his personal appearance as the father. He had been made to perform the -duties of a cabin-boy on board the schooner, and, in his sailor's clothes, could hardly be distinguished at the end of the voyage, so far as his personal appear- ance went, from the other lad, the captain's son, --  whodse berth he shared. The tone of the voice, too, of both father and- son, had become changed by :their experience on shipboard; and the effect of the sea-air- and the active exercise had been to add: considerably to their weight; so that there was nothing: about either of them, except the general cast of the features, by which evren a resemblance to- their former looks could be traced. Foreseeing that' Sir Edward would desire to go as speedily as, possible to6America, and knowing that '; The Eliza " was about ready- to sail, Delaney, as soon as "The Galatea" arrived, had shipped himself as a seaman, and his son as cabin-boy, agreeing to be on board the morning- of the following day. He knew well enough that he-could buy himself and his son off, if, through any mischance, Sir Edwards and his children should-fail to take passage in the vessel. That Agnes should have recognized Delaney and his son, under the circumstances, was, to say the least,   OAKRIDGE.         117 surprising, and shows that the.-eye of hate, like- the eye of love, sees far. Her father had not then in- formed her of the threat with which the doctor bad ended the last of his epistles; so- that she had no reason for supposing that he would attempt to follow her; but, on the contrary, from the fact that he had left her undisturbed from the time of receiving her note of dismissal, she had every reason for believing, and did believe, that he had bowed to a decree which he must know was irreversible. Poor girl  She little thought that not an outdoor movement of hers, for the three months- prior to her leaving Eng- land, had escaped the notice of the doctor's spies; that to him alone was it owing that her father, her brother, and herself were now  fugitives from the land of their birth; and that the one thought of his heart, the sole object of his life, was to accomplish her ruin, and have her, to use his own words, "i beg as a boon what she had rejected as an insult." Delaney had not. anticipated that "The Eliza" would come to an anchor in the stream, and saw Mr. Leroyd leave the vessel with Mr. Cartelon, with no little concern; and when, upon inquiry, he ascer- tained that the vessel would xot probably haul in till the following morning, he was at a loss what to 'do, So long as Agnes and her brother remained on board, he, of course, felt little or no anxiety; and he had had time to say to his son, -who was a great favo- rite with the captain, and had been permitted, at his own request, to go ashore with the jolly-boat to fetch off Mr. Cartelon, and now  returned with him and r   s      . .   "8        OAKRIDGE. Mr. Leroyd,--"Whether yon are told to wait or not, follow Sir Edward, and see where he, goes. Don't lose sight of him for a moment, andlisten to every word that is said by him or the owner, and report to me." Upon reaching the landing, Mr. Cartelon ordered the young -man to return to the vessel, which, remem- bering his father's instructions, he did not immedi- ately do. Delaney had taken his son, into his con- fidence; and though, at times, the better nature- of the boy -rebelled against the cruel part which it was his father's will he should take in the fiendish scheme of revenge, which, young as he was, he had detailed to him, still there was something so exciting, -almost fascinating, to the boy in the mystery of the life he was leading, and in the fact of his being taken so intimately into his father's confidence, that he had thus far silently acquiesced in every thing the latter had proposed: so that when he was ordered to return to the ship he said, "Ay, ay, sir!' but, instead of doing so, followed the owner and Sir Edward, till he saw them enter the house "of Mr. Smith. Noticing that it was of brick, and the only one of that mate- rial anywhere in thee neighborhood, the boy hast- ened back to the boat; and, as the distance from the landing-place to my guardian's -residence was less than an eighth of a mile, the time taken to go to the top of the hill (from which point the young man could see them enter the house)-was so inconsidera- ble, that the fact of his being away from the schooner for a longer time- than was needed to-* row to the shore, and back again, was not noticed. *         /   OARIDGE.   -      119 In the meantime, Delaney had determined, in his own mind, what must- be done. He knew   that, necessarily, Agnes and her brother would be kept on shipboard only so long as was required to select lodgings, and did not doubt that it was for this pur- pose that Sir Edward had gone on shore. He had a su spicion that Agnes had recognized him; for he remembered that at one time, when, hastily passing along near the rail on which she was leaning, he had accidentally touched her, -she had recoiled as if stung by a serpent; and while- this added to his hate, and strengthened him in his determination to effect his purpose, he was conscious that he must move slowly and warily, and lull the fears which he had not failed to see were excited. Excepting the day of the accident, when together they had carried Agnes to- her home, the latter had never seen the boy Manfred ; and Delaney had no idea that she had also recognized his son. As it was iim- possible for him to leave the vessel, he said to Manfred immediately upon his return, "; Sir Edward will be 'back shortly for his son and daughter. Go at once to the captain, and ask permission to row them ashore, and for liberty to look around the town a little. The "captain's son can go with you to bring back the boat. I have made up a small bundle of clothing, which I will throw into- the boat with the luggage of the Leroyds. So soon as they land, follow Sir Edward, and find out where Agnes goes. Here is money, lest you may need to hire a conveyance."  He further instructed him, that, if circumstances rendered it   120        OAKRIDGE. necessary, he must not return to the vessel, but fol- low them wheresoever they went, informing him daily, by post or otherwise, of their whereabouts. If they remained in town, he was to meet his son in the morning at the Sailors' Rest,-- an inn of which he had heard from his shipmates. Shortly afterwards the voice of Mr. Cartelon was heard, hailing the vessel. The boat, rowed by the captain's son, was immediately sent for him; and, while it was gone, Manfred saw the captain, who at once granted his request that he might pull the boat ashore when the owner was ready to return, and also gave him permission to remain for the rest of the day, or, if he liked, until the vessel hauled into the dock in the morning.  Mr. Cartelon remained on board only long enough for James Leroyd and his sister to make ready to go with him, for which a few minutes sufficed; and when, immediately after- wards, the boat left the vessel, the captain's son, as had been planned by Delaney, accompanied Manfred for the purpose of bringing it back. Every thing thus far had gone- as the doctor had, wished. He watched the boat 'till it reached the landing, and saw Mr. Cartelon, Agnes, and her brother, step on shore. The luggage of the Leroyds had been brought in the other boat. A hand-cart was waiting on the wharf to receive it. The bundle of clothing which Delaney had made up, it was thought had been sent by mistake; and, as the other boat had already returned to the 'vessel, the boys were told to take charge of it. Manfred had already told   OAXKIDGE.         121 his companion of the permission that had been given him to remain on shore; and the latter knew that the bundle was his. Leaving directions with the carrier as to the delivery of the luggage, Mr. Cartelon and his young companions proceeded up the hill. A minute after- ward, taking the bundle from 'the boat, Delaney saw his son following, at a little distance; the- receding forms. The Sailors' Rest, at the intersection of Water and Main Streets, was but a little way distant from my guardian's house, and was plainly visible from  the deck of the vessel. It was evident to Delaney, from  the fact that the boy retraced his steps hastily, and entered the inn, from which he almost immediately came out, that Agnes and her brother had been taken by Mr. Cartelon to the house on the top of the hill, where he had previ- ously gone with their father, and that Manfred had taken advantage of the circumstance to get rid of the bundle, before resuming his watch. During the night, , The Eliza " hauled into the dock; and Delaney went immediately to the Sailors' Rest, where he   found his son, from whom he learned all the particulars of the Leroyds' visit to Oakridge, and the fact of their remaining at the Hal  as his guests. A man quick of apprehension, the doctor understood at once the situation. Manfred had told him of the fete, and of the scene in the grounds, when Agnes, upon   seeing him, had fled hurriedly to the Hall; and he surmised that it was t , for the purpose of concealment fora while, that Sir //                * , tS   122        OAKRIDGE. Edward had taken his daughter to my house. That she would remain there for some days was, perlhaps, a natural conclusion; and Delaney, had he wished, could not have arranged matters more to his satis- faction. :His malevolence was such, that he contem- plated with satisfaction the fact that the young girl was, as it were, thrown under my protection; and, as he afterwards boasted to, Agnes, he delayed to strike the blow which he then thought was to blast her happiness forever, till he knew that the grati- tude which she could but feel towards me had grown into love. The -morning after the hauling-in of the vessel, Delaney left Wawenock with the other sailors of "The Eliza," nominally for Portland, telling his son to stay by the vessel for the -present; the captain having expressed a desire to retain him. This he did, thinking it more likely that the suspicions, which he knew had already been excited, would be more speedily allayed, in case he apparently sepa- rated from Manfred, a result which did in fact follow, -than though 'they should go off together. What his son had told him of the scene at the fete made him fear lest she had recognized him also; still he believed, that, at the most, it could be but an undefined suspicion, which a little time- would allay. Before leaving, Delaney had arranged with Man- fred when and where to meet him on the evening of the same day, and left it with him to provide, in the meantime, some place near the Hall where he could remain for a while, till his plans were per-   OAKRIDGcE.        123 fected. But for the devilish ingenuity with which he subsequently perfected those plans, and the conse- quences to me and mine which resulted therefrom, these memoirs would not have been written. God forgive the man I I sometimes fear I cannot.   CHAPTER XI. - "One master passion in the breast, Like Aaron's serpent, swallows up the rest." -POPE. DEFTANEY only went so far on the way to Portland as the " halfway-house," as it was called, where the going and returning  coaches met.  The latter brought him back to Wawenock late in the evening of the same day. His son was at the place ap-- pointed by him for their meeting, which was at the angle made by the highway that led from the post- road to the Hall; and together they went to a farm- house in the immediate neighborhood, where he had secured board and lodgings for his father and him- self;. At the town where the stage-coach stopped for supper, Delaney had had time to purchase a com- plete farmner's rig; so that, upon his arrival, he looked what it pleased him to represent himself to be,-a farmer of some means, in search of a hundred acres, more or less, of eligible land on:which to locate. The most unaccountable good luck, somehow or other, seemed to follow him. The house in which he was lodged was occupied by a man by the name of Williams, a son of the Jeremiah Williams herein- before spoken of,. who continued to look upon Oak- ridge Hall, or Spruce Point as he always called it, as belonging of right to him, notwithstanding the auid 124   OAKRIDGE.         125 pro quo that had turned it over from his father to mine. It was not'long before- Delaney (who had shipped on board "The Eliza " under the name of Murphy, which he now changed to that of Mulligan) became aufait in all- that related to the discontent of Williams; and he took care to keep alive the spark of -hatred and malice, which he saw ate once needed but a skilful hand at the bellows to blow iito a flame. Just south of ..the pasture-land, that formed the extreme southern boundary of my Oakridge property: was about a hundred acres, of which Williams senior had retained the ownership when Spruce .Point w as conveyed to my? father,. It :was comparatively .: of little value,.except for the wood that covered it; and at that time fuel was so. cheap, and the rough, and hilly character of the tract presented so. :many obsta-. cles in the way of getting the! wood to market, that- the proprietor had *never even attempted. the experi- ment of seeing if any thing of profit could be realized from felling the trees. -He was only too glad, there- fore, to take up with Mulligan's offer- of five hun-t dred dollars for the one hundred- acres, and was impatient to have the papers, drawn at -once, lest his- guest might repent of the bargain. He would will- ingly have sold it for half the price.. 'Mulligan, sooner than have failed :to get it, would have paid many times that sum- for the land. My guardian, Mr. Smith, drew the deed; -and Mulligan, or Delaney as I prefer to call him,"accompanied Williams to- the office- for the purpose of. paying :the. money, and receiving the: -deed, ..and there met Sir Edward     126        OAKRIDGE. Leroyd; but so complete was his new disguise, that neither Sir Edward nor my guardian for a moment suspected that he was other than what he pretended to be. Delaney, upon entering into possession of this property, became, to all appearance, a hard-working farmer. He cleared an acre or more on the north side, nominally for the purpose of raising vegetables for winter use, really that he might from the emi- nence overlook the Hall, and keep a watch upon its occupants; and, late as it was in the season, laid out quite an extensive garden, the outlines of which can even now be distinctly seen. Manfred was in the garden with him at times; but, as a general thing, Delaney worked alone. When Manfred was there, it was for the purpose of reporting to his father what he had heard and seen in his watch on the Hall. As soon as it became known to Delaney, through Manfred, who had in some way ascertained the fact, that Sir Edward had decided to make Wawenock his home, he determined to erect a log-house for himself and his son, and, towards evening of the following Sunday, wandered over his possessions, seeking a retired location for the purpose. It seems to me now, as I look back upon the events of those years, as if the good Lord, for some purpose, must have allowed this incarnate fiend (for as such I for a long time regarded him) to carry out his designs, though it must be in the great hereafter, if at all, that I understand the wherefore; for within a few minutes' walk from the ground he had cleared for his   OAKRIDGE.         127 garden, though hidden on either hand by a dense forest, and reached only after a descent so steep as to be at times dangerous, he came upon one of the loveliest spots the eye of man ever gazed upon. Bent as he was on revenge, and all his movements directed to that one end, he could but pause and admire the beautiful view before him. The difficulty of its approach, even, seemed to add to its loveliness; and as he looked up at the almost precipice, down which he had come, and reflected, that in all proba- bility no human foot had disturbed, in the lapse of centuries it might be, the solitude that reigned there, touched in his inmost soul by the beauty of the scene, he threw himself upon the ground, and forgot, it may be, for the moment, the one feeling that had been influencing him. What a beautiful place it was! An immense rock or bowlder, not more than two hundred feet in width, but rising, perhaps, one hundred and fifty into the silent air, with a smooth perpendicular surface, cast its shadow over a level plat, on which were growing beech and birch and maple, not so thick as to obstruct too much the view of the magnificent river, the waters of which could be seen sparkling in the sunlight, but sufficiently dense to afford a shelter from the sun, even at mid-day. The eastern margin of the plat, opposite the rock, was the brow of a precipice, or cliff, hun- dreds of feet high, with the waters of the Sissipi- cotta laving its base; and upon either side rose, each like the other, precipitous, rocky heights, cleft and barren, save here and there a pine or a hemlock,    ,   128        OAKRIDGE. or an occasional shrub, which grew out -of the fis- sures, and got their sustenance from I know not where. Here, as I have; said, on what might seem almost holy ground, Delaney threw himself down, under the shadow of the great rock. As he reclined there, a little ground-squirrel, not at- all alarmed by the unusual sight, came chirping up to where he lay, and in a twinkling disappeared mysteriously close to his head. His curiosity excit6d, Delaney made search for the chipmunk's hole, and finding the mouth, which was just at the base of the rock, drew away the earth wiLh his hands, and, a few -inches below the surface, laid bare a large flat stone, which with some difficulty he raised upon edge, disclosing the entrance to a subterranean passage, the existence of which, it was evident, could have ibeen known only to the Indians, or to some of the earlier white settlers, probably. at the time- of the Indian wars. The squirrel had found it, and made it his home. If Delaney's curiosity had been excited by the sud- den disappearance of the squirrel, it must have been imTneasurably increased by the discovery he had just made. Whether he, at that time, followed up his discovery, I do not know. The probability is, that he did; for,.as the event will show, his actions subsequent to this were all more or less influenced by his knowledge of the existence of this secret pas-- sage, and the hollow to which it led. I can imagine with what exultation he contemplated this hiding- place, so important to the effectual carrying-0ut of his plans in reference to Agnes, and do noti wonder,   OAKRIDGE.         129 that, in his monomania, he should come to believe that Providence was his guide to the spot. It was one of the inconsistencies of this strange man's character, that, while naturally of a religious turn of mind, he had not the strength of will necessary to keep his passions, or any of them, in subjection; so that, whether love or hate, revenge or anger, was for the time influencing him, whichever it might be, it swallowed up all other feelings, and made it a religious sentiment with him to follow wherever the predominant passion might lead him. Sir Edward Leroyd was, I do not hesitate to say, wrong, in re- garding him as a hypocrite or a knave. He was neither. On the contrary, he was a man whose natural impulses were right. But he had become a hypochondriac; and his disordered imagination, the result of past misfortunes, , o'er which his melan- choly sat on brood," led him to do, and to think he was justified in doing, what, in his sober senses, - mens sana in corpore sano, -he would have regarded with horror. If he loved, he loved with all his being: if he hated, his soul was in his hate; and, bitter as are the wrongs that I have suffered at his- hands, I do believe, and willingly bear testimony to the fact, that, in pursuing his revenge, he thought he was doing no more than the ignominious treat- ment, as he regarded it, which he had received at the hands of Agnes, demanded. And though his conduct was such as to justify the expression here- tofore applied to him, "incarnate fiend," yet, even for him, though it must be admitted that there was   130        OAKRIDGE. infernal method in his madness, I would make so much of excuse as what I have just now written carries with it. The preliminary plans of the doctor had been so well laid, and so shrewdly carried out, that, after a while, Agnes herself, having no renewed cause for alarm, began to think that she might possibly have been mistaken as to the purpose of Delaney's dis- guise, and of his coming to America; though she insisted upon the identity of the sailor with her Isle of Wight lover. The son, too, in his daily watches, had exercised a discretion beyond his years; so that, though considerable effort was made on the part-of my guardian and myself to discover whether the doctor and the supposed son, or either of them, had remained in town, or, if not, what had become of them, we could learn nothing, except that John, the cabin-boy, had, for the first two days after arri- val, been from time to time on board"The Eliza," and had expressed a willingness to go again in the vessel; until, being told by the captain, that, on account of needed repairs, some weeks would elapse before she would be again ready for sea, he had finally taken what little luggage he had, and left after nightfall, to seek, as he said, some other em- ployment. It seems to me strange, as I look back upon it now, that during those days a more careful watch was not kept upon the boy. Two men, and good men we thought them, were employed, and well paid, to watch for Murphy the sailor, and John the cabin-boy; but under the direction and guidance of   OAKtRrnGE.        131 his father, who was-not believed to be in the town, Manfred's movements were so cautiously made, his appearance had so changed, and his own shrewdness was so great, that it is not, perhaps, to be: wondered at. that. he should have succeeded in eluding the not very vigilant watch that was set over him. The father was the principal object of concern to us; but, as I have already said, so complete was, his disguise, that he had presented himself at my guardian's office, and met there Sir Edward Leroyd, without exciting suspicion in either, that he was other than the farmer he appeared to be. This, you must remember, was nearly half a century ago. Men were not so suspi- cious or so alert in those days as they are now; and a professional detective was unknown. The Leroyds remained at the Hall for more than two months. Before half that time had, elapsed, all of us, except Agnes, had become satisfied that there was no foundation for her suspicions. She was firm, however, in the. belief that Delaney and the sailor were one; and I could see that the; constant appre- hension under which she labored was affecting her 'health. Her father,' her brother, and myself, from time to time, tried to convince her of the error into which she had fallen; but, while she did-not attempt to refute our reasoning, she silenced us always by saying, "I feel that he is here."  -You will probably have anticipated, that thrown as I was into the society of this most beautiful and accomplished young lady, passing many hours of' d, each day in her company, and seeing her so troubled   132        OAKERIDGE. ' by the fear of some evil which she believed to be impending, but the nature of which she could not even imagine, but one result could follow. I fell deeply in love; and though I tried hard, very hard, to stifle the new-born feeling at its birth, and to keep from Agnes all knowledge of its existence, lest- it might be thought by her father and brother, and possibly by herself, that: I had taken advantage of the-' circumstances with which misfortune, and not choice, had surrounded her, I found all my efforts vain. I was not so blinded, however, with ,my own passion, that I could not perceive that Agnes re- garded me with favor. I could see that the troubled look which the fear of Delaney gave to her- face would disappear when I came into her presence; and in the walks that we took together about Oak- ridge, and at our games indoors, and all through our intercourse, it was evident that she regarded me, not merely as her host, but as a valued friend. The visit, originally designed to be of not more- than ten days' duration, had, at my earnest solicita- tion, expanded into upwards of nine weeks; but now the eve of her departure from the Hall had come. Sir Edward, confident that the fears of Agnes, which had occasioned his making my house their tempo- rary abode had no foundation in fact, had leased a fine residence in the village, with its furniture and, fixtures; and -the next .morning was to see them inistalledin -their new home. It was:the-time of the equinoctial gale. The wind was howling fearfully; and we -could hear the waves :dashing against the   OAKRIDGIE.         .133 rocks that lined the shores It was evening. Sir Edward and his son were playing at chess. Agnes 'and I were at the recessed window, where, nine weeks before, I had looked upon her with so much of inter- est. No rain was falling; and the wind, though furious, was not cold nor damp. I threw open the window; and for a while we sat there, looking out into the moonlight, and saying nothing. Was it the feelings to which the thought that we were to sepa- rate on the morrow gave rise,'or was it the sublimity of the scene, the bending, moaning trees, the whirl- ing leaves, and the white-capped waves, that awed us both into silence?  Unconsciously my hand sought hers, unconsciously, no doubt, she suffered me to take it; and with clasped hands we sat:there, looking out into the night. I was the first to break the -silence; and the sound of my voice, though scarce above a whisper, recalled her to herself. She sought to with- draw her hand.   "Nay," I said," Agnes." It was the first time I had ever addressed her so. "Listen to me for a little; and, if then you wish to withdraw your hand, I will' no longer seek to retain it."   I hardly know what I said to her after this. I only remember, that, when I ended, her hand was still in mine, and that I raised it to my lips, and kissed it passionately. I could hear her heart beating, the hand which I held was trembling in my grasp; and I said, kissing it again, "Will you give it to me, darling, not for a little while, as to-night, but 4 till death us do part '?" "Yes, gladly!" was her answer; and she looked   134        OAKIDGE O up into my face with such a happy, trusting, hopeful glance, that unconsciously again I found my arm about her, and my lips pressed to hers in a long, first kiss of love. "Checkmate!" said Sir Edward; and we startled almost like guilty things.   CHAPTER- XII. "I am no herald to inquire into men's pedigrees: it sufficeth me if I know their virtues." SIDNEY. THE morning of the 23d of September, 1791, was clear and beautiful. The fierce wind of- the night before had subsided; and the sun rose in a cloudless sky. Every thing about Oakridge Hall, save where the shadows fell, was bathed in sunlight. The air was springlike in its warmth and freshness; and the birds that still lingered amid the groves never sang more melodiously. I rose early that morning, after a night rendered sleepless by the conflicting emo- tions of joy, sorrow, and fear,--joy, that Agnes had promised me her hand; sorrow, that she was so soon to leave the Hall; fear, lest Sir Edward might disapprove of our engagement, and regret that he had exposed his daughter to what, foreseen, might have been so easily averted. I feared, too, that he might think I had taken advantage of circumstances, and won a consent that would not otherwise have been given. I knew, too, that he traced his lineage back to the Conquest, and that there flowed in Agnes' veins some of the noblest blood of England. The Colonies had been -too lately separated from the mother-country for pride of birth to be altogether 135   ,138B6       OARRIDGE. ignored, even among the patriots: and that Sir Edward- should cling to his, even in his exile;- that his pride, unlike Rosalind's, should not have- fallen with his fortunes, - seemed to me more than proba- ble. I had, so far as I knew, no reason to blush for my: ancestry. My father was, as I have already said, an Englishman of good family, and had been a mem- ber of parliament; but, beyond these facts, I knew, absolutely nothing of my family pedigree. Some- thing had occurred in the old country, prior to my father's leaving it, that had caused him to change his name, and made the mention of his family and of his country a forbidden thing in,our household- I have always thought that it was on this account, that my father became one of the bitterest and most determined of' the - -rebellious colonists. Of my mother's family, I knew not even the name. My searchings among the papers and records of my par- ents threw no light on the question. I was abso- lutely in the dark as to my " house and lineage; " and it was a subject upon which I was, at that time, foolishy sensitive. I had determined to see Agnes's father before he left the Hall 'for his residence in the village, and to communicate to him all that had- occurred between his daughter and myself, but had concluded not to refer to the subject till after our morning-meal, -the last we were to take together at Oakridge. I was, therefore, both glad and porry, when in' my walk, which I had continued-to a greater length than I at first intended, -I came suddenly upon- Sir Edward,   OAKRIDGE.         137 standing with folded arms upon the top of the mountain to the southward, near the brow of the precipice, looking out upon the bay. He had risen earlier than I had, and, wishing to enjoy the glorious morning, had gone at once to the highest point in the vicinity, hardly a stone's-throw from the- log- cabin that Delaney had erected, and where he could look out upon- the sparkling waters of the Sissipicot- ta; while in every other direction he was concealed from view by the pine-forests which covered the hill. Several times before, we had been together to the spot where we were now standing, and, had' noticed through the trees the log-cabin a little way distant; but, as this was no unusual sight in those days, it had attracted only a casual glance. Neither of us suspected that its occupant was any thing more than a poor devil of a farmer, eking out a- sorry subsist- ence from what little he could raise from the barren soil, or kill with his fowling-piece. Had we known, that at this very time Delaney's lynx-eyes Were upon us, and that, within hearing of our voices, he lay crouched in the bushes, just behind where Sir. Edward and I were standing, I need not say that the conversation which I am about to detail would- not then have taken place.  Sir Edward greeted me with a smile of welcome, and commenced at once to speak of the -beauty of the morning, and the loveliness- of the 'scene., PI? have nowhere seen any thing so grand, and at the same time so beautiful," hesaid. "Ordinarily, we associate grandeur with sublimity, rather than with' 12*   -188 '       OAKRIDGE. beauty; but here there is just so much of the grand that we must call it so, while there is not so much of the, sublime as to render the term 'beautiful' in- appropriate. What a magnificent morning this is!" he continued. "And: can one find anywhere on the earth a lovelier spot than this? It seemsto me, if we could have all the year round such days as this, I would be content to live and to die right here, under the shadow of these whispering pines. My son," he added, " you are a member of the Es- tablished Church, and love its liturgy and its ways. I would not for the world say aught to shake your faith, or lead you to think less of- mother-church than now you do; but I often think, at such a time as this, of those lines of Pope,- 'Slave to no sect, who takes no private road, But-looks through Nature up to Nature's God.'  What can bring us nearer to Him than such a scene as this? The time-honored cathedrals and churches' -of my native England, the venerated pulpits, from which, for, hundreds of years, the most noted divines of their centuries have preached, the sur- pliced priest, and the mitred bishop, have failed to move me so as do these mossy rocks, those sparkling waves, these lofty trees, that little stream, this glori- ous sunshine, and these singing birds. Here, indeed, as the greatest of our poets has said,- - , - 4-Our life exempt from public haunt, Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, Sermons in stones, and good in every thing. ' *   OAKRIDGE.        189 "'Itis indeed a beautiful morning, and the world just now seems all sunshine. Whether or. not it shall continue bright and beautiful for me depends upon you, honored sir," I answered, entering at once upon the subject that was nearest my heart. "You just now addressed ameas your son: may I not hope that you will consent to my becoming indeed your son, by giving to me your daughter as my wife?" "Does Agnel know that you would prefer this request?" asked Sir Edward, after a little while, knitting his brow, and speaking in a tone of voice which I hardly knew how to interpret. "She does, sir," I replied. "But it was only on yesterday that I told her how dear she has become to me. I had intended, before addressing her, to ask from you permission to do so; but as we sat at the window last evening (the last that she was to pass under my roof), I forgot every thing, save that she was dearer to- me than life itself, and could not keep from 'telling her so. I have tried hard, dear sir, to keep back this feeling, lest you might think I had taken advantage of the circumstances which brought us- together; and had determined that in no event would I let even her brother know of my love for Agnes till you had left- the Hall, and were -set- tled in your own home. -Mais' I'homme propose, et Dieiu dispose; and that which I had determined not to do, I did. I fear that I may have therein merited your censure; but I can only plead my love in pallia- tion, and throw myself upon your kindness' ."  "And what does my daughter say to all this?." *,.,   "O        OAKRIDGE. asked Sir' Edward in a kindlier tone, which con- viniced me that at least he was not offended. "She awaits your consent to confirm her own," I replied. "Will you not'give it'?  "Let-us return to the Hall," he rejoined. "I cannot say that I am altogether surprised at this avowal. I will see Agnes, and after that meet you again." We retraced our steps, talking upon indifferent subjects as we walked along, and reached the Hall in time for our usual eight-o'clock breakfast. Agnes had seen her father and myself come in together, and at once concluded that I had informed him of my proposal to her. Nothing was said, however, till the morning-meal was over; when Sir Edward, requesting his daughter to accompany him, went out upon the lawn; and shortly afterwards I saw them sitting together upon one of "the rustic benches which were scattered: here and - there at the sides of the walks. Before retiring the night before, I had spoken to James of my love for his sister, and had -told him all that had passed at the recessed window, while he-and his father were playing at chess; and he, dear friend, with' that warm-heartedness which made him ever-one of the most generous and truest of -men, grasped my hand in silence, and showed me, by the love which beamed from his own face, that a dear wish of his heart had been gratified. When Sir Edward returned to the Hall, he came at once to the library, and, James having joined his sister, we were left alone. "I could wish," he said, "I could h,   OAKRIDGE.        141 "that this matter might have been postponed for a while, at least urtil we had left the Hall. I am free to say, however, that I regard you with no small degree of affectionate .interest, and that I believe the happiness of my daughter would be safe in your keeping. You have wealth and position, and' are a man of culture and refinement. But " "I know of what you would speak, sir," I inter- rupted, the old fear uppermost in my mind. "You would ask me of my family, and "-- "Oh, no!" he answered, "I am satisfied on that score, and, besides, care more for a man's character than for his pedigree. I was about to say that Agnes, though mature for her years, is still very young, and you have but just attained your majori- ty: a year at least must elapse before your marriage; and if, with that condition, you will take the girl, why, go see her, and tell her so." I had but a few minutes' interview with Agnes, as the coach which was to take them tol their " own hired house " shortly afterwards drove up to the door of the Hall, and she was obliged to make ready for  her departure. I accompanied her, however, to the village, and saw them all installed in their new home. -I was very happy. The burden which had so long oppressed Agnes seemed to have been lifted. She, too, was happy; but, alas! it was not to be for long.    j '    * ^ 1*- . CHAPTER XTTI. "To err is human; to forgive, divine." - POPE. THE house which Sir Edward had leased for his residence was situated on the corner df Water and Front Streets, a little way distant from what was then called "The Landing," and overlooked almdst the entire harbor. It had been erected by Gen. Stone, a prominent citizen of the town, a few years before, with the intention of making it his home; but, after occupying it for a short while only, the general concluded to erect a statelier mansion in what was then becoming the more aristocratic part of the town, and, about the time of its completion, offered to Leroyd the house he was about to vacate, with its furniture and fixtures, at a rent which seemed to the latter to be exceedingly low; and he at once leased the premises.' During the stay of the Leroyds at the Hall, the intimacy between James and myself had become so great, that I had suggested to him the formation of a copartnership between his father, myself, and him, in the' shipping and ship-building business, to which he assented with the eagerness of youth. But upon submitting the proposition to his father, at my request, the latter dampened his ardor by asking, "Where is, the necessary capital, oh our part, to come from?"and instructed hi to' decline "2   OAKRIDGE.        143 the offer with thanks. The son had learned from his father that his fortune was very much impaired, and knew that he was in somewhat straitened cir- cumstances; but he was not aware of the extent of his losses, and supposed that he had at least saved enough from the wreck to enable him to start in any business in which he might conclude to engage. James at once communicated to me the conclusion to which his father had come; but I silenced all objections by proposing to offset the latter's experi- ence (Sir Edward had been for many years at the head of a mercantile house in Newport),- and his own services, against the money I might advance as capital, and consenting, as they insisted upon it as a condition precedent, that the profits should be divided equally between us; that is to say, one-half to me, and one-half to his father and himself. This arrange- ment was subsequently carried out; and, under the firm-name of Henry Oakridge and Company, we entered upon a business, which, until the' laying of the embargo on commerce (in 1807), was signally successful. The shipyard and counting-house of the firm was but a few steps from the house which Sir Edward had leased; which fact w*as an additional reason moving him to take it. .During the nine weeks of Sir Edward's stay at the Hall, Delaney had not been idle. All his plans, as the result showed, were laid with an ingenuity and shrewdness, that, as I now look back upon the frightful days that succeeded, seems Ato me wonder- ful.. Haste was not a part of his plan. He bided    "4        OAKRIDGE. his time., The discovery he had made was, as I have said before, of the greatest importance to the successful carrying-out -of these plans, and he must have set at work with a chuckle. The entrance to the subterranean passage which the lifting of the stone had disclosed was hardly three feet square; but steps -roughly hewn out of the solid rock the first, three or four feet below the surface led down to a floor, or walk, of- hewn timber, a yard or more in width, which, gradually ascending for a distance of twenty or thirty rods through a natural cavity or crevice in the-rocks, led to a hollow large enough at its base to form a good-sized room, and dimly lighted at the -further side by an aperture, which, at a dis- tance, seemed to afford the more convenient entrance to the cave; but, as the extreme end was approached, it was evident that this was not so. The opening through which the light came was ten feet or more from the bottom of the cave, and almost covered by a- large dead tree, the roots of which spread on either side of the aperture, leaving an opening to the west, through which, the first and only'time I ever entered the cave, the beams of the setting sun were streaming, radiating the cavern with golden light. Seeing the end from  the beginning, Delaney erected his log-cabin close against the tree whose roots covered this opening, and so constructed the chimney, that the smoke from a fire in the cave beneath, rising through it, would appear to come from the cabin itself. This he could do without obstructing the light,/as his house was to the east   OARRIDGE.          1 . -45 of the tree. The interior of the cave, which was floored with timber, like the entrance, but hewn with Sidonian skill, Delaney fitted up comfortably, luxuri- ously even; and, at the time of Agnes' departure from the Hall, he had every thing in readiness for putting his plans into execution. As a part of his plot, he had determined, weeks before, on account of its proximity to the shore, to purchase the house of Gen. Stone, with its furniture and fixtures, and had offered a price so far exceeding its real value, that it became an object with the gen- eral to sell, especially as his- new residence was nearly completed. Pretending to be the agent of somebody else, Delaney had, at the outset of the negotiations for the purchase, presented a letter, purporting to come from his assumed, principal, directing that the owner of the house, as a condition precedent to its purchase, should lease the premises to Sir Edward Leroyd. A  small sum, but little more than suffi- cient to cover taxes and repairs, was fixed as- the rental; and it was agreed that the deed might be made subject to the encumbrance of the lease; the general promising, in consideration of receiving the amount of rent in excess of the taxes, and; cost of l repairs, to keep secret the fact of the conveyance, which was not to be recorded, and to continue to act with regard to the property as if he were still the owner. The reason given for all this was, that the purchaser did not wish the Leroyds to know that a friend was in this way privately seeking to- assist them. 13   "6         OAICRG&t. - This: arrangement was made abbut the first of Sep- tenber:; but, by the teth e ter/ns'of the'lease-to Sir Ed'ward, he-w-as not' to btake possession tilli the latter part" lof the month, though, by the agreement withl Delaney, the-housei was :to be vacated immediately uipon'the completion of the 'purchase, and thekeys deli;tered to him. This, as you will see, gave abundanrt oppor- tunity for tihe latter to make a thorough examination of the house, and to -effect such changes in' the inte- rior arrangement as -he saw fit to make in' order to the 'ietter. carrying-out of his plans. -Delaney did not dotibt that one of the two front-chambers wouild be: that 6of Agnes; but, as he:- could inot tell which she might select, he had a  double work to0do. It hMappened, however, his pasht good luck- still attenil- ing him, that" the stairway leading to the attic of the house passed -iup between the partitions of the two rooms-; the space behiiid, except immediately under the steps,b',eing devoted to- closets for the one room' and the other. It was. Delaney's object to make a secret entrance to each of these rooms, which should bIe so'artfully concealed as not-' to attract attention, and 'at the same time open and shut so noiselessly' as to: give him ingress and egress withouti disturb- ing the sleeping occupants. So far as-I know, he had n0o one to assist him in his work, except Man- fred:; -but his ingenuity was such, that, within the twenty days, he had not only' completely accomplished his object in this regard, but by making the china- closet, as it was called, -whichopened from the back- pirlor, and was directly beneath the attie stairway,-   OAR-IDGCB.         147- three feet shallower than 'it was before, and cutting out and carefully refitting- a section of the floor above and below, which he made into trap-doors, he, in fact, had' a shaft, three feet wide and six feet broad,-extending from the second floor to the cellar; and so carefully had his work-been done, that no one standing- directly beneath the- lower trap would for a moment suspect that even the dust between the timbers had been- disturbed. A ladder, the steps of which were carefully padded, led from the one floor to the other. The cellar was not more than seven feet in height; and directly under the trap-door Delaney placed and secured a wooden flower-stand, which, made like a flight of steps, and used for win- tering house-.plants, happened to be in the cellar. The -trap-doors he had so carefully adjusted by pul- leys and weights, that a gentle pressure of the hand was sufficient to lift them; and he found, by fre- quent experiment, that he could pass-from the cellar to either of the -front-chambers without hearing the. sound of his own footsteps. It only remained-for him now -to secure -a safe and easy entrance to the house. He knew enough of Sir Edward's character- istics to foresee that the first precautions he would take would be to secure the windows and doors, so far as he could, against the possibility of burglarious entrance, to which the exposed situation of the house, rendered it liable. He was aware, too, that, in Mr. Leroyd and his son, he had no fools to deal with, but men whose eyes and ears and pistol-mouths were open, and that it would be better for him not to , .     "8        OAKRIDGE. make acquaintance with either. By the way of the cellar seemed to afford the most practicable and safest mode of entrance and exit. The flight of stone steps that led down to the doors that opened- into the cellar was itself shut -in by a double door, whiih lay almost horizontally on the ledges at the side! This door Delaney replaced with another, made of matched boards, but so constructed, that he could without difficulty draw the centre ones on end, opening thereby a space sufficient to admit the- entrance of his body. The inner doors w*ere secured by a heavy bar, which fastened at one end by a staple, on which it turned, dropped at the other into -an iron catch. Removing one of the boards from the door, at the side nearest this catch, Delaney replaced it with one of the same width, divided at the middle, but at the' top falling several inches below its neigh- bors; the division in the centre, and the lack of length, being hidden by the upper and middle cleats - nailed across -the outside -and inside of the door. The upper half of this board could, with a knife or other sharp-pointed instrument, be easily moved on- end far enough to admit of the insertion of -the hand, and the raising of the bar out of the- catch. To avoid the noise which would follow the falling of the bar, and to enable him to replace it, Delaney. provided himself with a -piece of wire of sufficient length, which he could twist taut about the end,;: and, some days before Mr.- Leroyd took possession of the house, all his preparations were completed. 1 You have already surmised that the object of   OArIDGE'.         149 Delaney was the abduction of Agnes; but what H have heretofore detailed of his machinations to that end gives but a faint idea of the infernal ingenuity with which'his -plans were laid. You will see,- a little farther on, that there were -wheels within wheels, and that in his hate, as in his- love, Delaney was a man to 'be admired, such was the intensity of the passion as shown in his acts. Though the mov- ing cause of all my misfortunes, andthe one object against whom it would seem that I might be justified, like the " sulky, sullen dame," in nursing my wrath to keep it warm, and though, as I have said, I have never yet been able to say from my heart that I for- give him, I find myself always, strange as it may seem, seeking to excuse his conduct, and wondering sometimes, if, after all, his condition was not as much to be pitied as my own. As with me, happiness and he must have been two. For years after I became the solitary that I now am, I fancied that it might be, if Delaney and I should meet again, and each forgive the other (for there is much to be forgiven on my side also), in that mutual forgiveness would be swallowed up the fearful malady that assailed us both. When in old age, the rapid, surging, fiery blood of youth has become slow and torpid, and almost stagnant, the divine command, to forgive our enemies, comes to us with a power and a meaning that it has not had before; and as time is losing itself in eternity, as the here approaches the here- hereafter, the things of time seem, in the comparison, like the visions of the night. We recognize the fact, 18*   15    -    OAKRTDGE. that " to err is human, to forgive divine," and that, the greater the wrong, the nobler the forgiveness. God grant, though life to me has nothing of comfort in it, that I may live till I can say from my heart that I forgive Delaney I   AMONG the families in the town with whom the Leroyds soon  became more  or less intimately acquainted was that of Judge Radcliffe, -one of the most influential citizens of the place, who, hav- ing retired from the bench some years before, was then in the practice of the law, almost always ac- companying Mr. Smith on the circuit; the two being generally opposed to each other in the courts, but maintaining ever the warmest personal friendship. The judge, as he was called, was of Spanish descent on his mother's side; his father,who was a ship- master, having early in life gone, in one of his voyages, to Cadiz, where he married, bringing his dark-eyed wife back with him to the New World. Though nearly fifty years of age, he 'seemed, com- paratively, a young man. A close student, and entirely devoted to his profession, which yielded. him a handsome income, unlike Mr. Smith, he delighted im grand entertainments; and his house was the resort of the young men and maidens of the village, who were always sure of a cordial welcome. His family, at this time, consisted of himself, wife, and two daughters, the elder of whom was about 151 4,\   152        OAKRIDGE. twenty, and the -younger, seventeen years old. Both were beautiful girls; and the intimacy which, almost immediately sprung up between the younger of them and Agnes was of a peculiarly close and interesting character. Inez, the elder, was a bru- nette; Alice, a blonde; the former resembling, in that regard, her father; the latter, her mother. Mrs. Radcliffe, as I remember her, was one of the. dearest and sweetest of women. I had been very intimate in the family from boy- hood. The judge and his wife always regarded me as a trustworthy companion for their daughters; and I naturally became their escort to the numerous par- ties, balls, and like amusements, which made the town celebrated for its gayety. Each had beeni, in turn, the object of my boyish devotion. As I grew older, and they grew older, I looked upon myself as a- brother to them both ; and showing no difference, so far as I knew, in my attentions to the one or the other, it did not occur to me that the -idea of any thing more than .a love fraternal in its character ,could enter the thoughts of either in connection with myself. I was anxious that Agnes should. know them, and, just before Sir Edward and- his family left the Hall, had spoken to the Radcliffes of the apquisition so soon to be made to the society of the town. And, immediately upon the family being set- tled in their new home, the judge, accompanied by his wife and daughters, called at the house; and your father saw, for the first time, the beautiful girl, who, a few years afterwards, became his wife. To Agnes, *    *'       , *1   OAKRIDGE.        153 this meeting with young ladies of her own age, pos- sessed of refinement, beauty, and all the graces that make such companionship delightful, was a source of the greatest pleasure. She had been so long de- prived of the society of her own sex, that she would probably have welcomed the old and the ugly; but I could see, and Inez and Alice must- have seen, the joy that lighted up her beautiful face when Mrs. Radcliffe said to her on parting, "You must make our house one of your homes. Oakridge has told us so much of you, that we all are longing to love you. You will let us, IL know." Inez said nothing; but Alice, throwing her arms about Agnes's neck, and kissing her cheek, said, "I love you already; and mayn't I come and see you as often as I please?"- "Oh, yes!" answered Agnes, "I shall be so glad to have you come I " I passed out of the house with the Radcliffes, and accompanied them to their home. As we walked along, Inez said to me, "Miss Leroyd is certainly very beautiful, and I congratulate you upon your betrothal." '"' My betrothal!"I answered. "Pray how did you learn that Miss Lerqyd and myself are betrothed?" "I noticed that she called you ' Henry.' She would -hardly have done so, unless the intimacy between you is somewhat more than   that of acquaintances, or friends even. AAm I wrong in supposing that you are betrothed?"  "You have guessed rightly," I answered; "and on6 of my reasons for accompanying you home was ,'      \    154        OAKRIDGE. that I might tell you all of the happiness that -has just come to me.- You will love Agnes so much, Inez, when you know her well, not only for my sake, but for her own, that I want you to promise to see her often, that you may know what a lovely, dear, good girl she is." "Any friend of yours, Oakridge, will always be dear to me," was the reply.       l We entered the house together. The judge was enthusiastic in his laudations of Sir Edward; his wife spoke the praises of the son; while Alice could not find adjectives enough to express her admiration of Agnes. Inez alone kept silence. 1"I am under immense obligations to you, Oak- ridge, for the pleasure the past hour has given me," said the- judge. "Sir Edward is a man after myown heart. I liked his telling me to drop the title; and in every thing he said there was the soundest of sound common-sense. Why haven't you told us of his being your guest through all these weeks? We would have been glad to have called upon him at Oakridge, if we had but known of his being there." Ah, my dear judge," I answered, "if you had called upon me during all those weeks, you would have foulnd Sir Edward at the Hall. - You didn't- even honor my poor f6te with your presence; and the girls tell me, that, having no escort, they were obliged to remain at home. "If I am not mistaken, Oakridge Hall has- seen none of you since:we went there together on May Day. Some other time, per- haps, I will tell you why I could not let you into the   OAKRIDGE.        -t55 secret of the Leroyds' visit to the Ha11, and how they happened to be my guests so -long; just now I want to surprise you with the information that Agnes is my, promised wife. I expect, you all -to love her dearly.  .  "That we will," said the judge; and Alice, clap. ping her hands, ran towards me, and :actually kissed me in her joy, saying, "I. am so glad for you, Oak-, ridge: she is such-a lovely, dear, good --girl " "Lovely, dear, good girl:" these were -the every words I had used in speaking of Agnes to Inez. The latter noticed :it, and said,- Your opinion of Miss Leroyd must be a correct one, Oakridge; for Alice, who, as you know, is infallible in, her judgment, has exactly quoted your language- in giving her opinion of -your fiancee. Let me congratulate you- again; for after all, if a lady be lovely, dear, and good, every thing else cant be dispensed with.: Intellectuality in a woman is a small matter compared with:comeliness; and a loving heart is -better: than a thinking head. You :have told me often, Oakridge, that .I am ' lovely,' I hope I am; -I try to be 'good: ' think you the time will ever come when I shall be glad tfo hear some one-.oflyour fickle sex say that I am : dear'?;"? She had said :all this openly to me, in the presence of her parents -and .her. s-ister. They heard it; and looked up surprised. I heard, and tried to compre- hend it. A   "few moments only, and .the truth-flashed upon me; and I said, "Come with me, Inez- I have something :to-say;to you. She' rose -at: once ; and together: we/ mooved towards -the little room which was both library and study,   156        OAKRIDGE- "Mayn't I come too?" asked Alice, as oblivious to the true state of affairs as I had been five minutes before. "If you are going to talk about Agnes, I insist upon being a party to the confab." "I am afraid we shall have to say you nay," I replied. "You don't want to play the part of Mademoiselle de trop for the first time in your life, you know," I added, with a smile that was forced. "I never thought I could be 'Mademoiselle de trop' with you and Inez, or either of you," responded the little beauty, pursing her lips. "But go along: I will pump Inez, and get it all out of her." Inez and I passed into the library: what followed I shall never forget. The pain it gave me was in- expressible. It was the third great sorrow of my life. Without waiting for me to give a reason for asking for the interview, Inez at once commenced, "You have discovered my secret, Oakridge (I intended that you should ) ; and, though it seem to you unmaid- enly, I do not hesitate or blush to say that H love you, and have loved you with a growing love ever since that May-day morning, when, years ago, you threw over my shoulders the necklace of May- flowers you had made for me (I have it now), and said that the pinkest had not half so rich a tint as the cheek you kissed, or the sweetest, half the fra- grance of my breath. You were then but a boy, it is true, and more sentimental, I admit, than you have been in later years. Perhaps you have forgotten the incident; but I have remembered --strange, isn't it? both the time and the place. We were there O      ,   OAKRIDGE.        157 again last May Day. Heretofore I have been foolish enough to fancy that your words might have had some meaning in them; but it seems I was mistaken: and, while I do not blame you for uttering words that were to you empty and meaningless, I cannot blame myself for having loved you dearly ever since, and, whether you will or not, must continue to love you, and only you, so long as this poor heart beats in my bosom. It would be worse than nonsense for me to say that I am not disappointed, grievously, hopelessly disappointed. But your happiness is, or ought to be, of vastly more consequence to me than my own; and, in seeing you happy with the one you have preferred before me, I shall by and by, perhaps, forget that I ever thought to be happy myself. Has the day been fixed for your marriage?" she asked, in a tone of voice, which, in spite of herself, showed that she felt a keen interest in the answer to the question. "Our marriage will not take place for a year," I answered. "But, Inez, what can I say? God knows that I never dreamed you thought of me other than as a playmate, friend, and brother; and now as you look at me with your face aglow with the old-time friendship, and speak so calmly of what you call a hopeless disappointment, I can't believe, dear friend, that you mean that I should take in its fulness all that you have said. Tell me," I added, "that you have been sounding my love for Agnes; that you want me to" - "' Sounding your love for Agnes I'" she inter- rupted. "I see now that I have been to you as    1:!58      : - OAxBIDGE. 7 nothing in all these" years. You havfe inofaithfeven in, my sincerity. Because I do not tetiret  to fiiy -chamber, and/pour; out my grief. in tears, or plan schemes of revenge, "or seek to work uponh your sympathies, or do- some other foolish thing, but : calmly tell;you :that -I love you, and look upon my :love- as : hopeless, you think; me, -playing 1 a-' part. I i- hoped-that att least -I might 'have your respect anid 'friendship, if not your love; and your respect I will have, for- I am :entitled, to, it: your: love it is- no longer yours t0o give. :So you are not to be married for a year, she :added. ' For twelve months, thenI -shall be:spared the pang of, seeing you the husband :=of another, though she be ,- lovely, dear, and good.'?' I hastened to' assure Inez that she had :miscon- strued.: my-meaning; that in my surprise and grief, :not -knowing what to say, I had spoken words which I did not intend she should interpret as she had interpretedtfhemr; that-- my respect-- for her, my love for!her, was all; a brother could feel for the best and most, affectionate ofrsisters ; and that I would= ever be -to ..her if she: would permit it, the. truest -and- sin- cerest of-friends.- ,  - "Permit it!?: she -answered, ( "Of course, I will permit it. i I long for it. I have in this -matter:no one to blame but, myself; and, while I eonfes's that I feel towards: Agnes Leryd a pardonable degree :of envy, Hcan say with truth -that there is nought'. of hatred or mahice mingled with it. -Why should:I b6 angry with her for loving you whom I myself love so:muach;? I regard it as an evidence of :her good *    .gr4- t saeI   - AERIDG. '        159 sense; and would it 'not be more consistent in -me were I to hate one who 'does not love you than-- to hate- on who does? It might have been different," she added, and her large lustrous eyes flashed as I had never seen them flash before," had  she known of my love, and sought tt- usurp the place in your affections, whic h, in my-blindness, H had thought to be mine. Castiiian, blood flows in ihmy veins+-; and I belong- to a race that seldom forgives an injury. -And mark this, Oakridge, should Agnes Leroyd fail to make you -a loving, true, and faithful, wife, Inez Radcliffe will show to her anrd to you, that the days of stealthy tread and sudden stroke' are not of:so long a past, that retribution sure and speedy shall not overtake the- guilty.; But," she continued, re- suming her composure, ' you must have had quite enough of this, Henry. Come, let us return to the parlor." I was only too glad to terminate the- interview, which, stranger in all its aspects than any thing I had ever read in romances, left me in -a, wondering, nonplussed state of mind, hardly knowing what to think of -the girl, and not a little disposed to reflect upon myself. I had always admired Inez, who was magnificent in her stately beauty, and possessed of more than ordinary  itellectual endowments, and could recall a hundred things that I had said and done, unthinkingly, which I could- now see, in the light of this strange experience, might have been interpreted by her as significant of a love warmer than that of a brother. That she should s frankly   160       - OARIDGE, have told me of her love, and, though- evidently capable of such depth of feeling, look upon the destruction of' her hopes as coolly as a merchant might upon the failure of some small commercial venture, and quietly resign me toanother, confessing only to ("a pardonable degree of envy," was an anomaly which I could not understand. I had cer- 'tainly failed to comprehend the girl in the years that had gone by; but I now looked upon her as the strangest of her sex. At the same time, in the midst of the grief which her avowal had occasioned me, I confess to not a little of pique, of which, not- withstanding the fact that all my being was wrapped up in that of Agnes, even the confession of Inez, that she loved me, and should continue to do so, could not wholly dispossess me. She took the matter, it seemed to me, too coolly. It was contrary to my preconceived notions of what was proper to be done under such circumstances; and I entered the parlor looking more like a discarded lover than ::an accepted one. Inez, on the contrary, seemed as calmn and unmoved as though nothing more than a quiet little tdte-d-tdte had taken place between us; and, when I took my leave, she asked me not to forsake them altogether, now that I had dearer friends to visit, but to come often to the house, and bring Agnes with me. "We are prepared to wel- come her so cordially, and to love her so much, Oakridge," she said as we parted, giving me her hand in the old-time manner, but I thought with, hardly the old-time smile.   CHAPTER XV. "MR. - Let's join in the pursuit, Orlando. ORLAN. -In what- direction, sir, my Lord,? M.-. -In all directions: at least, let us pursue." MANY months have passed since I laid down my pen after recording the strange interview between Inez Radcliffe and myself; and I now resume the narrative, doubtful of my ability to continue it to the end. The events that almost inmmediately suc- ceeded those described in the last few pages were of so fearful a character, and the misery that they brought upon us all was so great, that the recollec- tion of it even now causes me to shudder, and grow sick at heart. Why, I ask myself continually, was I foredoomed to such a life as mine has been and is? Can it be, that, in the years so long gone by, my father, or my father's father, or some ancestor--of mine still more remote, was guilty of some heinous sin, and that upon me it has been visited by a jeal- ous God?   He knoweth all things, and doeth all things well; and no doubt in the great hereafter, the mysterious dispensations of His providence will be made clear to me. "Now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I'know even as also I am known; " and has He not promised to give to them   that mourn, "*         .     161   162        OAKRIDGE. "beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness "? Let this comfort me and give me strength! I have mentioned, in the course of these memoirs, that Delaney, before building his log-cabin, had stopped temporarily with a son of that Williams who formerly owned the Spruce Point or Oakridge property. This man had a sister, a young woman of some education, prepossessing in her personal appearance, and not more than twenty years of age. We deemed it a fortunate circumstance, when, a few days after the arrival of the Leroyds, Miss Williams, to the surprise of the housekeeper, who knew the pride of her faimly, applied for a situation at the Hall. Agnes, who from the first seemed to fancy. the girl, immediately engaged her services as lady's-maid, and finding her faithful, and apt to learn, had taken her with them to their house in the village. Annie, as she was called, appeared to be devotedly attached to her mistress. - She evinced no desire to absent herself from the house while at Oakridge, except occasionally on Sundays, "when she would ask permission to visit her brother, whose house was but a few minutes' walk fromm the Hall; and her happiness and pleasure seemed to consist in being with and about Miss Leroyd. At Sir Edward's house, she was lodged in a little room which opened off that of Agnes; which latter, as Delaney had rightly judged, was one of the two that fronted the east -  It was the 30th of September. The Leroyds had It ,a't 30he   OAKRIDGE.        163  been domiciled in their new home but a week. The keel of a-vessel of the larger-class had already been laid by the firm of Henry Oakridge and Company. Every thing seemed to be moving along prosperously, with nothing to mar the happiness that had come to all of us. I had passed the evening of that last September day with. Agnes, and we had arranged to go with the Radcliffes, on the morrow, for a sail on the bay. James had gone some miles into the country on business of the firm. Just before I left, Sir Edward, complaining of fatigue, had retired to his rest. Agnes accompanied me to the door, closing it after me as I went out; and I heard the bolt slide in its socket as I passed down the steps. My horse was stabled at an inn a little way distant. Mounting as soon. as the hostler had fetched him, I rode rapidly homewards, and was asleep long before the midnight that was to come to us fraught with such bitter woe. In the morning, while at breakfast, I was startled by loud and continued strokes of the knocker. I felt at once that something unusual had happened; and, anxious to ascertain the cause of the disturb- ance, I went myself to the door. Before it stood Mr. Leroyd's colored servant. Too excited to speak intelligibly, he thrust into my hand a note from Sir Edward.- I tore it open, and read, "Come to me instantly, for God's sake.! Agnes and her maid have disappeared." "Return at once, and say to Sir Edward that I will be with him as soon as my fleetest horse can carry me,".I said to. the man, who had- already F       ' D  - .    OAKRIDGE. mounted. "Or, stay, dismount! I will ride your horse: follow me with 'Cruiser,'" naming a favorite gelding, "and tell John, the hostler, to come after, with the roan." Springing into the saddle, I was soon flying like the wind towards the town. I was calm, unnatu- rally so. The shock was so great, that it had be- numbed my senses.   I was conscious of nothing, save that I must reach Sir Edward at the earliest possible moment; and I urged the horse that I bestrode to the utmost. It was one that I had pre- sented to James when he left the Hall; and it knew my voice, and obeyed it. In less. than ten minutes I was at Sir Edward's door. The whole household was in confusion. Sir Edward I found in the breakfast-room, his face buried in his hands. Before him was an open letter. There were no groans or tears; but, when he raised his head as I entered, I was startled by the change that an hour of agony had made. I had not realized till then how terrible was the blow that had stricken us; but as I looked upon that uplifted face, upon which despair had set its seal, and heard his voice, so unlike that of yesterday, saying to me, "Readthat paper, Oakridge: it is all that is left to us," I began to comprehend that something had happened, - some- thing that had wrought a change in me, as well as in him; and I wondered how I could be so calm and unmoved, while he, her father, (was not I her lover ?) was crushed to the earth. I took the letter. The words burned themselves into my memory. Igive them here.   ' 165   What will you say, dearest father, when you find that your 'birdie' has flown? And what will James, whom I love so much, say? and Oakridge, whose wife I have promised to be? Will you mourn for the daughter and sister and bride? or will you say, 'She is unworthy of our love, for she has left us,' and cast her from your hearts and your thoughts, with never a sigh for the lost one? I have loved you all dearly, I love you all dearly now; but my destiny is upon me, and I cannot bend it to my will. I must follow where it leads, though it separate me forever from my loved ones, and make me a thing on the earth. Do you remember, father, the- tradition--our family tradition - and the motto, ' ubifata ducunt, ibi nos,' which grew out of it? I but bow to a will that is mightier than mine. " Annie, my maid, goes with me. It is perhaps better so, though I have tried to dissuade her. Do not seek to discover our hiding-place: it will be of no avail. Fate, perhaps, one of these days, may bring me back to you. Who knows? ' Ubi fata, ibi nos.' "Your daughter, " AGNES LEROYD." I re-read the note, examining it carefully as I did so.  Sir Edward's coat-of-arms was on the paper. There could be no doubt that the handwriting was that of Agnes.   Her father, whom I interrogated on the subject, seemed to be equally certain of its au- thenticity.  I knew nothing of the allusion to the family tradition; but it was not then a time for ex- planations.  What was needed was action; and that immediate.   To my mind there could be but one solution of the mystery. In the short time that had intervened between my leaving her and her flight, something   had   happened   to  her:   some fearful change had taken place in her mental condition.    It could only be that Agnes was insane: the note itself    166        OAKRIDoGE. was proof of this. Upon any other hypothesis, I could not comprehend how Agnes- my Agnes, the gentle, loving, artless girl-could have written it. Had it not: been -so evidently penned by herself, it might, perhaps, have occurred to me that Delaney, so long the object of her apprehensions, was at the bot tom of it all; -but, in'the faceof such evidence, how could I come to any conclusion save that which I had reached? I wished, however, in- order to act advisedly,-to- assure myself, so- far as I could, that I was probably right in my theory, beforetaking active measures to discover the fugitive, and for that purpose asked to be' shown' to Agnes's chamber. I found that the bed had not been occupied. Some articles of jewelry, which I remembered to have seen her wear that evening, were upon the bureau; andcover the back of a large easy-chair was flung. the mantle which she had worn. There was nothing about the room to indicate that any thing unusual had taken place. I opened the closet. Here, also, nothing had 5 been disturbed. I glanced, also, into the-little room that the maid-servant had occupied. Every thing was in order. Dresses and other articles of apparel were hanging against the walls. They had gone, taking with them nothing but the clothes that they had on..      -  I descended to the breakfast-room, where Sir Edward was still sitting, completely overcome with the terrible weight of his woe. "Bestir yourself, Mr. Leroyd," I said- to him. "-It is no tine to give way  to grief. We must find your daughter, though-we move heaven and earth in the'effott?'     OAKRWDGE0.        167 "You are right," he answered, starting from his chair. "Leave me for a moment, and I will be myself again." I passed out of-the room. The- man-servant, in the meantime, had. returned.; and John was riding into the yard as I passed out of the house. I ques- tioned the former as to the -condition of the outer doors that morning ; and he answered that he found them all securely bolted, and the windows fastened from within. He had not, however, examined the cellar-way, which opened into the back-yard, where I then was: I accordingly raised the outer door, and, descending -the steps, found that-.there, also, every thing was secure. How they could have escaped from the house was an added mystery.  I :returned to- Sir Edward. His strong will had obtained the mastery. He no. longergave way to his grief, but expressed himself as ready to: start in search of his missing daughter as soon as a plan of operations could be agreed upon. "'Had we not better organize parties to join -us in the search?"I asked. "-If I am right in-supposing that Agnes has wandered- off while laboring under temporary aberration of mind " ;- "' Temporary -aberration- of -mind!' " he inter- rupted. "There is nothing of that, sir I almost wish that I could think there was. There- is villany at the bottom of this. -It is the- realization of the- fears that have troubled thee poor- girl so long. Agnes was right all along in her suspicions. De- laney, damn him! is here, and is the oause of it all. He has worked while w eslept s ' :-  *     -      '* A    168        OAKRIDGE. But the note, Sir Edward how can you recon- cile the writing of that with any other theory than that all has been done of her own volition?"I asked. "That letter was never written by Agnes," was the answer.- "'I thought at first that it was; but, since you went out, I have studied it carefully, and  have discovered enough to convince me that it is but the work of a skilful forger. She is the victim of  Delaney's arts: of that you may be assured. The cunning that could so devise and carry out her ab-  duction will take- good care to leave no tracks behind; and the discovery of the place of her con- cealment is not the work of a day, or of a week, but, it may be, of months or of years." ' But how could Delaney have known of the tra- dition of which the note speaks, and of the motto that grew out of it?"I asked, incredulous, and impa- tient to be moving in the search for Agnes.  "That, too, I have thought of, and answered sat- isfactorilyto my own mind," he answered. "Annie, the maid, was a tool of Delaney's. Did you not tell me that she was a daughter of that Williams who formerly owned the Oakridge property, and a sister of the man who thinks he owns-it now? She came- to the Hall with a purpose, when she offered her ser- vices-to Agnes, and has been ever since the hireling and ,spy of that villain. To her Agnes may have spoken of the tradition and the motto; and from her it went to Delaney." This explanation of Sir Edward seemed so plausi- ,  w  .  .  . .. . .   'OArKRIDGE.       1069 ble, that I was not a little staggered in my opinion, though still unconvinced; and I added, "There is still another matter which seems to me inconsistent with your theory; and that is the impossibility of Delaney, or any one else, entering the house, going to Agnes's chamber, and removing her thence, without any of the inmates being disturbed, or Agnes herself raising any cry for help. Besides, the servants say that they found every door and window fastened when they came down this mornings What explanation can -you give of this?" "That fact is of all the most difficult of explana- tion," was his reply. "I have no doubt, however, that the Williams girl arranged it all. She must have administered some drug to my daughter, and afterwards admitted Delaney. Together they have taken her away; and it is as easy to conjecture how  Delaney and his tool could have left the house, clos- ing and securing the door of their exit after them, as to understand how Agnes and her maid could have done it." I took the note again from the table. While ex-  amining it, Sir Edward said suddenly, "I have it. It has perplexed me to understand how Delaney  could have learned to imitate Agnes's handwriting so exactly. It no longer surprises me. When in Newport, as you know, he sent me a note by his-son, asking. for her hand in marriage. To this proposal Agnes replied herself, by letter. The villain has   kept the note, and by means of it has been enabled  to imitate her hand." .  15 M6 -'  9 - ,   170   -     OIAKIDGQ. ," We are--- losing- valuable- time, Sir Edward," I said, impatient. - -"The horses, ready saddled, are at the door. Let tus:delay no longer."     : 4- -." Time -will be gained by delay," he answered. "We must make haste slowly.- Hhave: sent for your guardian- (and' :Mr,. Cartelon. --Judge -Radcliffe had ,better be asked - to -meet:, them. Let-- John ride at -once:to his house, and request his attendance.. I am convincecd that it: is the part of. -wisdom- to take :consel, together before commencing, the search. - ;To move-without -a well-digested: ptlan. -of: procedeure :wouldt :be worse! than: folly;. Besid-es, James was, to return tlis-.morning, -and may come in time; to ake part in our consultation-." ,' - -  -I went out, and :despatched John on his- errand. Impatient as I was, tI -felt that Sir Edward was right -in!urging: further delay, and returned- to the house, prepared to wait till the conference had takeen place. Mr. :Smith and' Mr.- Cartelon came in, shortly. after- wards. -A little later, James .and :-Judge Radcliffe arrnied together. -As soon- as -they: -had, recovered ifm -fhe shio k whichk the announcement'of Agnes's abdt/ction had ; giyen -them, the. two 7lawyers cathed upon -Sir- Edwarcl for a full statement. of- all the facts within- -his knowledge concerning Delaney, going back to his, filest acquaintance:,with :the man,;- and in- yvestigati ng minutely every thing relating to ther sus- pieions!of: Agries on-the -passage from; Havana and ince   arial; her arrival. They questioned me,-also-:as to A niniej Williams land hber brother, and; particularly as to the ,bittejrness said to: exist:- bvetween (the :-:etter   OAKRIDGM.         171 and myself, growing out of my ownership of the Oakridge property. The note found in Agnes's room was also critically examined, and the handwriting compared'with that- of her diary. It was nearly noon before the investigation was concluded. The result of it was, that they both concurred in the opinion that Delaney had, as Agnes suspected, followed her to America, coming from Havana in the same vessel; that he must have been all the time, since his arrival, concealed in Wawenock, or its immediate vicinity; that the maid-servant was in his employ, and had aided in the abduction; that the note was a forgery; and that, in all probability, Agnes was now secreted in the same hiding-place that had -so securely sheltered him. In the course of their investigation they had gone, from attic to cellar, making a- careful examina- tion of every room, but had discovered nothing that could throw any light upon the question Ias to the manner in which they had left the house, securing the door, or other place of exit, behind them. It was determined that six different parties, com- posed of such citizens as might volunteer for the purpose, should be immediately organized to make a thorough search of every part of the town and -its vicinity.  This was accordingly done: and for weeks ,the search for the missing girl continued; but no trace whatever of the- fugitives, as I continued to regard them, was found.  Williams's house had- been carefully watched, and himself questioned; but it was apparent that he knew nothing of the matter. He denied having seen his sister since she left his --house v .          ' '   172        6AR mDcE. for the Hall; and the anxiety which he manifested on account of her disappearance was evidently unfeigned. Delaney's cunning had been too great. The search was abandoned; and we looked upon Agnes as lost: to us forever.   '    CHAPTER XVI. "THE KING. - He's but a boy, Sir John; would'st credit him? SIR JOHN. -That he's a boy leaves little room for doubt. It needs more years to fabricate a lie." I Six long and weary weeks had passed away since the abductionor flight of Agnes; and as yet not a trace of the lost ones had been discovered. Sir Edward Leroyd had, in the meantime, received from his correspondent lat Newport an -answer to the letter of inquiry, which he had sent immediately upon his arrival at Wawenock, respecting Delaney's movements; and the fact of the latter's sailing in pursuit of "The Galatea" was no longer a matter of uncertainty. Up to the time of the arrival of this letter, I had clung to the hope, that, whatever might be the true solution of the mystery, I should atleast be spared the realization of my worst fears; namely, that Agnes was in the power of Delaney. But there could no longer be a doubt that such was the fact; and the words that he had written to Sir Edward- "Though she flee to the uttermost parts of the earth, my shadow shall cover her footprints, and sooner or later she shall beg as a boon what she now rejects as an insult" - constantly recurred to me, and made me of all men most miserable. How fearful her sit- uation must be! To what indignities might she not 15*+ -    173   174        OAKRIDGE. -have been subjected! These and similar thoughts haunted my waking hours; and my sleep was troubled with frightful dreams. In Sir Edward and James Leroyd, anxiety had wrought a fearful change. We seldom now referred to our common misfortune. Each for himself had- come to the conclusion that there was nothing further to be done, but to wait until chance or circumstance should furnish some clew that might lead to discovery. Every possibility that suggested itself had been'acted upon. I had even, in the- course of the search, entered the log- cabin of Mulligan, and had talked with him. ' There was not a house in the town whose inmates had not been questioned; and for hundreds of miles in every direction, the' most diligent inquiries had been made. It seemed utterly impossible that Delaney and ,his victim could be concealed anywhere in Wawenock or its vicinity; and, after learning the particulars of his' pursuit, we had finally concluded, that, upon leav- ing, Havana, he had ordered his schooner to follow "The Eliza " after a while to Wawenock; and that, upon her arrival in the bay, he had put his plans into execution, and escaped with -his victim and his tool in the vessel. In fact, a schooner of the size and' rig of "The Lapwing:" had been seen in the offing about the time of the abduction of Agnes:; which, on account of its sudden disappearance, had at the time excited some comment; but, as we knew nothing then of Delaney's ownership of such a vessel, these facts did not come to our knowledge till long after- wards,: when, upon inquiry, they were, learnedl ,from fishermen on the neighboring shore.   OA0^!rGmE.        175  Such was the situation of atairs,- when, late one: evening in the early part of November, I was told by-a servant that a young man desired to speak with me. He was at- once shown in. I recognized him as the son of a farmer who.! lived a little way distant from the Hall, upon whose skill, with the fowling- piece we had for a long time depended for game for the table, and who had, only a day or two before, re- quested of me permission to shoot- in the Oakridge grounds. His face was very pale; and I noticed, as he entered the room, that he was breathing hard, like one who had been running rapidly. His age was seventeen, he had told me; but he appeared 'to be older. "What is the 'matter, Edgar?"I asked. "You seem to be strangely moved?' O O sir.!" he answered, "I have something to tell you, - something awful. But I have run so fast, I can hardly:talk." Indeed, it was with difficulty that I could understand what he said, Upon recovering his breath, the lad recounted the following facts, to which, as you may well believe, I listened with an interest so absorbing as to be pain- ful. He- had. gone, he said, earlyrin the afternoon, to hunt for partridges in the woods that skirted the southern boundary of Oakridge, and, meeting with but little suc'cess,.had. extended his tramp, going several miles farther to the southward, and bagging a number of birds.  It was almost dark'before he commenced-to retrace-his steps; anid quite so when he reached:the top of the mountain that descended ,  . .   176        OAKE1UMGE. into the valley where his father's house was situated. As he: neared the summit, the light from Mulligan's log-cabin attracted his attention; and he directed his steps towards it, thinking to go in for a while, and rest before starting adown the mountain for his home. He had approached within a -few rods of the cabin, when the door opened, and, by the light which shone out 'of it, he saw three mean, two of whom entered the house; the third remaining outside.- The boy paused and waited. Shortly the door opened again, and the third man passed-in. Taking advantage of the way being clear, his curiosity excited, the boy crept stealthily towards the rear of the dwelling, and climbing to the limb of the dead tree, before spoken-of, a. few feet from. the ground, he obtained, through the little window at the right, a view- of the interior of 'the hut. Within the room two men were seated at a table : -two others, in. sailor's garb,- were standing near the door. From the position that he occupied,- the lad could see all that passed, but could not understand any thing that wass said. Climbing still farther into the tree- till he came on a. level with -the top- of the chimney which was built against it, he found- that he could hear the conversation dis- tinotly, though it was carried .on, in a low tone of voice. --  "'. What has delayed you so long, Capt. Oglesby? you were to-have ,been :here six weeks ago," were the first words that he heard. "We   have had the Devil's own luck, Mr. De- laney," was the reply. .. ....   OAKRIDGE.        1" "Hush! don't call me by that name. The very trees have ears," said the man who had first spoken. "I am known over here as Mulligan the farmer; and you will please to forget that I have any other name, till we have left this cursed place." I sprang to my feet. "Boy," I said, "are you telling me the truth? "Every word is as true as I stand here," answered the boy; " but I have got lots more to tell you." You can imagine into what a state of mind the startling disclosure of the boy had thrown me. I was fearfully agitated, but succeeded in composing myself sufficiently to hear him to the end. "The ,Lapwing," so he gathered from what he overheard, had left Havana in ballast- six weeks after-"The- Eliza," but, when three days out, had sprung a leak, and put into Nassau for repairs. After these were made, the schooner resumed her voyage, and, when off the coast of Florida, encountered a hurricane, in which she was thrown on her beam-ends; and, in order to right her, both masts had to be cut away. Jury-masts were then rigged, and the vessel's course shaped for Charleston,: S C., where they were de- tained for nearly a. month, undergoing repairs,; so. that the voyage, which should not have exceeded three weeks in length, was, in fact, as many months. Delaney, it appeared, had written to the captain of "The Lapwing," giving him minute directions as to; where he was to drop anchor as he came up the river, and how and where to find his log-house, which he was only to visit by night. \ '  ' .   178        OAKRIDGE. -But the most important part of the boy's revela- tions was that in which he communicated the plan of operations laid down by Mulligan, and to- be car- ried out on the morrow. This part of his account I need not give here in detail, as the measures taken by .us to circumvent his designs will sufficiently explain what they were. It is sufficient to say that the boy heard enough to convince him that the- vessel had come for the purpose of taking away Delaney, hisg son, and two females; and knowing of the abduction of Agnes, and not doubting that she was one of the females referred to, he had come at once to the Hall, as soon as he could get away from the cabin without danger of discovery, to give me notice of the fact. He volunteered, also, to guide me to the spot that had been designated by Delaney as the place of rendezvous for the following night.-. Enjoining secrecy upon the boy, and rewarding him liberally for his information, I started immedi- ately for town. Late as it was, James and his father had not retired. The intelligence I brought drove from them all desire for sleep. The former could hardly restrain his impatience. He wanted to go at once,: and make sure of the capture of Delaney. , Agnes," he said, "should not remain another day in his power." ' But we have yet, to learn where she is," I answered. "In all that was said, Delaney did not once allude to the place of her concealment. We must not peril all by hasty and unadvised action." "What course. of action would you advise, Oak-   OAKRIDGE.   '     179 ridge?" asked Sir Edward. "I agree with you, that we -must move coolly and warily, if we would make assurance doubly-sure." I had already determined in my own mind the, proper course to pursue. From the boy's informa- tion, we knew where "4 The Lapwing" lay, and where the boat was to-- land that. was to carry De- laney and his companions from the shore to, the vessel. The officers and crew of"The Lapwing " were but eight persons in all, -captain, mate, Afve seamen, and cook. The captain and three of the seamen were to return at eleven o'clock the next evening, bringing with them a coil of rope and a block. A whip, or purchase, was to be riggel,:and the females lowered from above to the boat, which was to be in readiness at the foot of .-the cliff, to- the eastward-of Delaney's cabin.. . As you have seen, the vessel would :be left with only the mate, two seamen, and the cook on- board. In case she failed to enter at the Custom House within twenty-four hours after her arrival in the rivrer, she would be liable to seizure; and -the facts in- our possession were. amplyt sufficient to- warratt the- officers in making her a prize. If they declined to do so, I had determined that I would take the responsibility myself; so that, in the event, that,- from any cause, we should fail to rescue Agnes before she was on board, we should be- sure of her deliverance as soon as she had reached the-vessei. I therefore advised that a party of picked men, to be headed by myself-, should proceed 'after dark to   180'       OAKRIDGE. the top of the mountain, near Delaney's log-house, and lie in wait for the coming of Oglesby and his men. -The only fear I had, was, lest, in the darkness, I might be unable to discover the place that had been agreed upon by Delaney and the captain as the scene of the midnight -embarkation; but trust- ing to my knowledge of the locality, and to the guidance of the boy Edgar, I did not feel much apprehension of going astray. Another party, to be headed by James Leroyd, was to go with the Custom-house officers, and take possession of "The Lapwing;" or, in the event of the refusal of the collector of the port to authorize her seizure, James himself was to assume the r6le of a deputy collector, and, if possible, obtain peaceable possession of the vessel. In any event, the capture of the schooner was to be made. Still another party, under the leadership of our master-carpenter, was to go in boats, to keep watch for the landing of the men from "The Lapwing," with orders, if possible, to secure possession of the boat after the captain had left her, and to be them- selves at the foot of the cliff to receive the females when. they should be lowered from above. We judged, and as it proved, rightly, that one man, at least, would be left with "The Lapwing's " boat at: the foot of the cliff. Sir Edward and his son assented at once to this plan -of operations; and after making a partial list, of the persons whom we desired should be of the several parties, and assigning to Sir Edward the duty,   OAKRIDGE.        181 on the morrow, of seeing the collector of the port, and of swearing out warrants against Delaney for abducting his daughter, and for breaking and enter- ing his house in the night-time, we separated, im- patient for the coming of the day, that was, as we fondly hoped, to put an end to the long period of suspense which had weighed so heavily on the minds and hearts of us all. I passed a sleepless night, and, leaving my break-: fast untasted, hastened to meet Sir Edward and his son. Early as it was, the former had already left the house for the purpose of seeing the collector of cus- toms, and obtaining his authorization of the seizure of "The Lapwing." The boy Edgar had accom- panied me to the village. Taking him with us, James and I started immediately to acquaint my guardian, Judge Radcliffe, and Mr. Cartelon, with the facts that had so providentially come to our knowledge. Coinciding entirely with our views as to the proper course to be pursued, they immediately set to work bo further the accomplishment of our plans. Mr. Cartelon, especially, was of invaluable assistance. From his shipyard and our own, the several parties were soon made up. The different points at which ;hey were to meet in the evening were agreed upon: each man was informed of the duty assigned him; nd all arrangements were made for the speedy and successful carrying-out of the several parts of the  ?lan for the rescue of Agnes. The sheriff of the  county detailed two of his deputies, and volunteered 'I Uis own services for the arrest of Delaney on the 16 i - ' A   182        OAKRIDGE. warrants which had been issued. The collector of customs not only authorized the seizure of "The Lapwing," but determined to go himself with the party that was to take possession of her. .Though near the middle of November, the cold weather had not as yet set in. It was the time of a late Indian summer. The moon, fortunately, wasi in her last quarter;-and we welcomed the clouds that towards evening spread themselves over the firmament. We could not have wished,- for the work that was before us,i a more auspicious night than this bade fair to- be.   CHAPTER XVII. a That darksome cave they enter, where they find That cursed man."--SPENSEE. - THE party to be headed by myself, as originally agreed upon, consisted of the sheriff and two of his deputies, three carpenters from the shipyard, and Edgar the guide; but as it was thought -that upon us would devolve the chief part -in the rescue, and that the danger attending it would be vastly greater than that to be met by either of the others, three more were added. Dr. Creamore, a young physician of the town, was also of the party; so that we were twelve in all, when, between nine and ten o'clock that evening, we left the Hall for the log-cabin of Delaney. The night was overcast; and it was not without difficulty that we could distinguish the path that led through the grounds to the mountain. We knew well, that, as we approached the cabin, the breaking of a twig, or the crackling of the dried branches under our feet, might give the- alarm, and perhaps defeat all our plans. But here we turned to our advantage a preliminary part of Delaney's scheming; for by his frequent passing to and fro from his house to the garden, in his watch on the- Hall, a well-defined path had been made. The branches of the trees upon either side had'been cut 188   184-        OAKRXDGE. away; and Edgar, who had gone again towards even- ing with his fowling-piece, nominally for a hunt on the mountain, was instructed to remove from the path, so far as possible, every thing likely to impede our progress, or give warning of our approach; so that, in this instance, we were enabled most effect- ually to turn against Delaney one of the weapons which- he had hitherto used against us. The dark- ness, too, upon which he relied for the carrying-out of his plans, was no less necessary for the success of ours. An hour after leaving the Hall, we had approached Within a hundred yards of the cabin. This stood in the centre -of a cleared space not more than an acre in extent. A dim light was shining from the single window on the side nearest to us. We emerged from the: woods into the opening, and placed our- selves under the direction of Edgar, who was -to guide us to the-place that had been designated by Delaney as the scene of the last act in the drama. This was none other than the spot that I have here- tofore -described as a level plat at the foot of a per- pendicular rock, under the shadow of which Delaney had thrown himself down on that Sunday afternoon, when seeking a location for his dwelling. Leaving three men to keep watch upon the house, under the guidance of the boy we crept stealthily along the border-of the woods till we came to the brow: of the rock, and, moving to the right, found that here, also," a zigzag pathway down the-side the he steep had been recently:made; so that we descended with compara-   AKEIDGS. -        -185 tively: -little difficulty, and were soon standing together at the baweof the rock-. Going to the side opposite that down which we had come, we con- cealed ourselves- behind- the -rocks that, were piled ,one upon another, affording hiding-places innumera- ble, and waited patiently for the coming of Delaney. -and his men, I directed that no one should move from his place of concealment till the females were on the ground; when, all, upon a given, signal, were -to rush out, surprise and make-prisoners -of the men. Those that were left behind were to offer no obstacle to, Delaney's leaving his house, but, if:: practicable, were to follow him, and-to see that he did not escape, should he attempt to do so, upon 'discovering that his designs were frustrated. It could not have -been -more than half an, hour, after our arrangements were completed, before- we perceived that some one was descending by the samei path down which we had just come. A dark-lan- tern, partially opened, shed just light ^enough to enable the way. to be distinguished. I watched the light, as, following the zigzag pathway, it approached nearer and nearer, until finally the figure of a man could be seen quite distinctly within a few yards of where I lay concealed. Almost immediately he was joined by another person, who--placed :upon,--the ground- a bundle, which he had: brought with hi l from above. The two. were: Delaney and his :son. Going at once to, the edge of the: cliff, the former placed the lantern, for an instant on:y,where the leight could bhe seen from: the riyer, and: then t-ejoined 16*   186        OAKRIDGE. his son at the base of the rock. "Don't be foolish, Manfred!"I heard him say, probablyin answer to some expostulation of the boy: " every thing shall be as you wish."  A few minutes later, Delaney and his son were joined by three men,l who had climbed the mountain from the river-side.:to the north of the plat. I could have touched them as they passed along. Opening the dark-lantern, Delaney so placed it, that the rays fell; upon the verge of the plat at the edge of the cliff, giving them light sufficient for rigging the whip; while the side upon which we had concealed our- selves was cast, if possible, still more into the shade. The trunk of a -small tree, five orsix inches in diameter, evidently cut for the purpose, lay upon the ground. One of the men from the vessel had about his neck a coil of rope, and carried in his hand a single-block. These he placed beside the bundle that young Delaney had brought. The rigging- f the purchase commenced at once. The bundle con- tained ropes and tools of various kinds, and a short piece of board, narrow, and notched at either end, like. the seat of a swing. All had been arranged beforehand, and so well arranged, that, in hardly more time than I take to record it, the block was made fast to the end of the trunk of the tree; the rope rove through it, and the whole raised several feet from the ground, and secured by placing it in the crotches of the trees, and firmly lashing it with cords: when, rigged, the -block was a few feet over the edge of the cliff. It only remained to arrange:   OAKRIDGE.        187 the seat, which was done by adjusting the: narrow board -in the bight of a bowline at the end of the rope.                .  As soon as these preparations were concluded, the five men moved towards the perpendicular rock. By the light of the lantern, I could plainly see all that- was done. Displacing a large rock, which it required the combined efforts of Delaney and his son to accomplish, I saw the former bend down, and raise on its edge the thin flat stone which covered the entrance to the cave. Leaving the sailors behind on guard, the three others disappeared within the aperture; Delaney being in advance, carrying the lantern. At this point I could' hardly restrain myself from giving the signal, securing the guard, and following Delaney; but recollecting how much was at stake, and that we had not yet heard or seen any thing of Agnes or her maid, I waited with what patience I could for still further developments. I had not long to wait. A few minutes only, and the man, whom I supposed to be Capt. Oglesby, reappeared, carrying the lantern. He was followed immediately by young Delaney and a female, who bore between them the form of another female, apparently lifeless or unconscious. I did not for a moment doubt that"I beheld the form of Agnes Leroyd. But could it be that the cruelties to which she had been subjected 'had resulted in her death? The thought was maddening; and, giving the signal that had been agreed upon, I sprang, followed by the rest, into' the midst of the startled group. Be- ,           .U   :'88        OAKlI4DGE. 'fore :they 'couBc recover from their consternation, Oglesby and the sailors were in -the-hands of the men, and, together with- the :Williams girl, were: safely se'cured. T! had sprung a-t once for -Agnes, andthad reached w-here she lay, just in time, as I thought, to -:prevent Manfred; Delaniey,: who had. comprehended in an;instant Athe true: state of affairs;,from dischar- ging hiispistol at the unconscious giil. Striking him a blow with my clinched fist, which felled him to the ;earth, I 'threw myself upon the ground: beside Agnes, "and, ,ailinng her-by4 name, endeavored to make: her unnderstandthat she was once -more in, the hands tof her friends; but she gave no signs of consciousness. Two or three lanterns had in-'the mean tine been lighted ;'and-, the sheriff and his deputies had de- 'scended into :the cave for the purpose of seeuring Delaney.  Dr. :Creamore, as soon:as he was .made aware of the condition of Agnes, came; at, onee-to offerhMisassi stance, and . .after applying his; fingers to :'?the wrist; antd. his- ear: to the heart, as-sured r .me that I need have no apprehensions as to the, result. Though: ,  :she :wash evi'de-ntly under. the influence .of a :,powerful. narcotic: ta few hours, he thought, -Would doubtless see her: restored to consciousness,.- Cate --had'beent tiaken, before removing' her from the cave, 'to have her warmtly lad ; and exeoptindg the almost deathly pallor that overspread her features, and the faet of her:i-unconscious state, therew ere no. outward signs of her having been subjected-to' ill treatment; --nxi;us-to' restore Agnes to her:home at the earli- r :eSt: :piosibl nirome-nt::I-orderd -oe - 6f the ,^men O to n              h   OAKRIDGE.        :^89 ; descenda by means of- the whip, to ascertain whether the party detailed to capture '"-The Lapwing's ' boat :had succeeded in doing it, and, if so, to have -that, or one of the other boats, in readiness to receive Agnes and,? myself. .While he was gone, I asked Dr. Crewa- more to: look after young Delaney, who still lay 'where he had, fallen after: being struck by myself. 'He returned shortly, saying, "He will. never take part. in another abduction, Oakridge,'. . "- He is not'dead!" .I exclaimed, horrified at the thought that. I had been the cause, of the death .of a fellow-being, even though his fate was richly ,merited..  . ..            . 6 He is dead," was the answer.:* But the doctor added, that the blow would nt -have. killed im, had he not, in falling, struck his head'against the large rock which he had just before helped to displace, and fractured the. skull.  "See that the body is brought to town," I said'to ,the doctor. - ' The boy shall atleast have a Christian burial..  ..        .. .  Could I have foreseenr what a, fatal influence over my future life this death of Manfred; by my hand, was to exercise,:I think I: would willingly have been thfe alaii, .and not .the slayer.: I cannot, however, under the circumstances, believing as I did,. blame :myself for the bl6w. JIt was given that I might save:. hereby the life of Agnes, ,whose; assin, as I thought,i t'he :bay. intended :to .be.; and the homicide Was, justifiable, before God and man : but -the co0nse- quen es; ofiti tome 'and mine have b-een: almost ,:as me and           \   a 190        OMrDGE. fatal as the,' blow itself. :It was the commencement of a'sSeries of misfortunes, and the end is not yet. Delaney- was captured without muichl difficulty. The cave itself iwas so far distant from the entrance, o  that he- had' not thea-rd :the disturbance which' the capture of- his confederates had occasioned, and, when' discovered, by the -officers- (so the sheriff in- fiormed me), was piling the furniture, bedding, and other articles, in fact the/entire contents of the cave, in a heap near the fireplace, evidently with the in- tention of setting them on fire before finally leaving the- place. - He; was armed to -the teeth, and, upon seeing the officers enter, drew a pistol from his belt, and advanced towards them. . -- I have a: warrant' for iyour arrest, Mr. Delaniey,"' said, the sheriff. ' We are three to one. Your corm- panions are all captured. You had better submit.', , Not while I live to defend -my liberty," was the answer. ,  ; -Die,tlihenf--" said::one of the deputies, an impet- uous young fellow, at the sa-me time discharging hiis pistol ;at Delkaney.: Fbortnately, as -I then. thought, the ball took effect in the'-wristof his- right:hand,- :and lo0dged:: ithre:.':- Trhe: - pistol' which he 'held fell frora;his grasp:; anid hei ,was:'at. otnce: secured..!' sawu'- hi'- as :he was broight orim the cave by- the fficer. n a account 'of- the 'cofditibn of his wrist, heP"o'Uld tot- be6 Jandciiffedd, as 'the other prisoiers were but- hisjilrm;swere pinioned.' I oii?'dre'd- them to be:oosed, and:requested the o0fficers bto take':him at once to-:his cabin, ^whe're ' Cs wound 'oid :ldbe' dressed?'y Dir, Creamore, before conveying him to the jail.   OAKRIDGE.         t91 -4 Where is my son?" he asked as he passed along, between two officers, by the place where the doctor and I were standing. "There!-"I, answered, pointing to the Body. "See, wretched man, to, what your villany has brought him T " "' Dead!" he cried, breaking from the officers, and throwing himself upon the body. -",Tell me, you hell-hounds, that he is not dead, and I will forgive you this night's work!"  Starting up, as -he saw the deputies approach to secure him, he said, "Farewell,^Manfred, my son!I Your father . lives to- avenge you." Then turning upon me, "I curse you, Henry Oakridge!" he hissed. ^' The blood of the innocent. is on -your hands.. '-You have robbed me of my bride. - You have murdered my son. -,Exult while you may! -The Itime of :your triumph will be short. .The day is coming when I will demand' the life of the, one, and the blood of-the other, at your hands; and- when:that day does come, beware,.son of. aIbastard . .sire! I will make- of your life the-hell you have. made .of mine, and yon shall go to your: grave accursed".' It was a terrible. cene,: The: memory of itlhaunts meyet. Standing there-at: midnight in-:the depths of a forest, with no light save what thedim-lanterns gave, his dead rson at his:feet, the lady of Whislove under the protection of his rival,- himself -a prisoner in- the; nidst of his:captors,: with -his wounded arm, raised towards heaven, breathing out curses, Dela- ney seemed for the moment to belong tto another ,:   :192       'oAKIDGmcE. than -human race of beings. I shuddered, in spite of myself, at the fearful imprecations he, uttered. ' Away with him!" said the sheriff; and he passed out of my sigiht ': All this had occurred in the space of a few minutes only. With a sigh of relief I had seen Delaney led away just as the man who had descended to the 'shore appeared again upon the brow of the cliff. He reported that the boat of "t The Lapwing" had been captured, as planned, and was waiting, with , the others, 'to receive its living freight. Seating myself in then bight, Agnes, still unconscious, was 'placed in my arms. Her fair head, with its wealth of golden hair, resting onl my shoulder, and my arm clasped .tightly about her waist, we were lowered quickly and safely to the boat. As the capacity of the other-boats was ample for the conveyance of those that were left behind, some of whom were to return,by land, I :ordered the men to row the boat -as i speedily as possible to the landing 'near Sir Edward's house; and, half an hour afterwards,- Agnes -was again in her own room, carefully tended by Mrs. Radcliffe and Inez, both of whom had insisted upon coming to. the house to receive her, and had ex- pressed their intention to remain until they should see her restored again to consciousness. Sir Edward was at first very much alarmed at the condition of his daughter.; but observing how quietly she breathed, and that the, flush -of - health was., again returning, to -her cheeks, he joined me, after a while, in the parlor, and requested-a full account of' all that had trans- /    ,    OAKRIDGE.         193 pired in effecting 'her, rescue. This I gave him, omitting, however, THE C  SE OF "DELANEY.   ' I did not return to the Hall that night, but remained at Sir Edward's, anxiously awaiting a favorable change in Agnes's condition. Early in the mbrning James returned., "The: Lapwing, --he informed me, had-been seized, and .would be brought into port, on the first fair wind, as a prize. - Agnes, soon aftier her brother's arrival, awoke as if 'from la profound sleep. She could not at first realize thatshe had: been" res- cued from the power of Delaney. When she did realize it, her!joy was inexpressible. Dr q-Creamore, who" had come at once to the house, after dressing Delaney's wounded wrist, prescribed- perfect :rest for i a -few days, and forbade us to question het as' to the manner of her abduction, or any thing connected with it. 'We were obliged, therefore, to stifle curiosity, an-d content ourselves with the happy reflect ion "that. .our loved one was- once more -safe,' and in Ithe 'midst of her family -and friends;; while 'Delaney, whoo had pursued .her with such- fiendish -pertinacity,'j was where, however much he miglit plot, the was, at ldast, powerless- to execute.  -ne thing, only in the: midst of the joy troubled me.- Agnes, upon- rec6veriig:-her :consciousness, had first said, ,Tell'i me of Manfred Delaney: where is he?!" and, ireceiving no answer from those in attendance, had, then asked for me. Why-should Manfred be first in her-thoughts? This was the question,.-the one thing that was-troubling. Would that I had never known - thie wherebfore :!   CHAPTER XVlll. "One woe doth tread upon another's heel, -S fast they follow." - 1THAMT-T, Act. iv.,-sc. 7. THREE months had upassed away since the rescue of Agnes, as narrated in the prece ding pages. They were months of anxiety and suspense. The terrible experience through which she had passed was too much for the nervous temperament of the young girl already Wrought upon to such a degree by the appre- hensions of the months that had preceded; and she lay for many weeks sick with a nervous fever. Dur- ,ing all this time Inez Radcliffe remained in attend- ance upon her, and would not hear of the employ- ment of a nurse, or allow even Alice to take her place at the bedside. Dr. Creamore had warned us of the approach of the disease, the symptoms of which had appeared almost immediately upon her awakening; and as the days went by, and the sudden heats and chills with- which: she was at first attacked were succeeeded by prostration nd delirium, in which his patient dozed, and continually muttered to herself, with only now and then a lucid interval, the doctor had said to Sir Edward, that the chances of her recovery were becoming daily less andl, and tat, unless some favorable symptoms should shortly p-   OAKRIDGEB        195 pear, her recovery was impossible. We saw that he felt that there was no hope. Delaney, after his capture, had been lodged, to- ge ther with Oglesby, the captain of "The Lapwing," in the county jail at Wawenock; and was now con- fined therein, awaiting his trial, which was to take place at the ensuing April term of the court. Dr. Creamore had been in attendance upon him also, and had, from time to time, answered his questions as to the condition of Agnes. At first it seemed to the doctor that Delaney heard of her increasing illness with gratification; but, when informed that there was but little if any hope of her recovery, his man- ner changed at once, and he said, "She must not die, Dr. Creamore. Let me know just what her present symptoms are. It may be that my experience as a physician, which in years past has been great, will suggest something that may be of benefit to her." Creamore had learned from me the past history of Delaney, and knew of his former reputation as a phy- sician: he had, besides, taken a fancy to the man, despite the accusations against him, and his- knowl- edge of the justice of them; for Delaney knew how to subject himself to circumstances, as well as cirncum- stances to himself, and had quite'won the admiration of the doctor by the frankness with which he spoke of the events of the past few months, and the argu- ments which he adduced in justification ofthe course he had pursued. It was only when he spoke of me, that the dark side of his character was brought to light. Of Manfred he made no mention.:. .   196;        OA  RIDZ.- In response to his request- the doctor gave him a complete diagnosis of the disease, describing; its- rise. and progress, and the present condition of the patient; to which Delaney listened intently, asking-some questions at the close, which- showed to Creamore that he was, familiar with the minutest features- of the.,disease which was -threatening the life of. Agnes. "It is indeed a desperate case," he said, " but not hopeless. Pass me your tablets, and I will write a prescription which will cure her, if any thing can. It is a very powerful medicine, more powerful, per- haps, than any you have hitherto been--called upon to, administer; but 'desperate cases require desperate remedies,' and you must have confidence in my judg- ment: in this matter, and follow the directions to the letter.'* Twice only. in myown :experience have I' ever given it; but in both instances it was efficacious.- Let my assurance that I would sooner die on the. rack, or by the slowest of tortures;,than hear -of :the; death -of Agnesl-Leroyd, give you confidence that I am dealing honestly with you. But, mention- it- not to -Sir EBdward or his son. Coming from me,: they, would forbid its being administered; and.,the girl will die, when her life might hav:e been saved." Creamore passed'him- the tablets, and he wrote- upon- them the, prescription. It- was, of -a character, that made the doctor turn pal, as he read it. This would, kill .a well person," he said.  "True,": -answered Delaney; ' but it will: cure u the sick one,*. Will you not trust me? You yourself say, that as- she is she must die;. :Think you :that Iwish to-adds *^            I   OAKBDGE6          197 milrder to the list, of crimes with which these men charge, me?. I tell you -that I worghip 'the girl; that she must not die. -'If I'wihed her-deiath, would ;l not let Nature take its course?" ^ The medicine was,--as Delaney had said, a :most powerful one.'- One of its component parts was- a deadly poison; but Creamore, well versed as he was in the science of 'his profession, saw thatthe effect of the mixture, if not fatal, m}ust necessarily be bene- ficial. It was- so unusual, however,: in a fever- of this-kind, to adopt any but the most gentle mineasures, that he would not take' the re sponsibilityi of adminis- terming it,: notwithstanding Delaney's warning, With- out first consulting her father; and accordingly, upon leaving the jail,: went immediately to Sir Edward's (where he also found James and myself), and laid the matter before him. "I should not hesitate a- moment," said   Sir Edward, "knowing the skiill of that man, if I could believe in the sincerity- of his professions.* What- think you, Oakridge? Shall we leave what little of life: is left to Agnes to the man whose villany has brought her to this pass-?" "Not -if there is any other hope," H answered. "Let Dr. Creamore  decide -for -us,. He -knows Agnes's- condition, ; he knows the, medicioine ;:he-has seen Delaney: if there is, in his opinion, no- other- chance, I dare not leave, this one untried.*' At the same time, I felt, thati like a -drowning man, H/was catching at a straw. I had, days before,;given up all hope -of Agues's recovery.-! If-,her- cure ;was accoim- - 17*   198        OAXRIDGE. plished, it could only be by a miracle. Could 'it be that Delaney, the man who had pursued her so determinedly, and whose curse was still sounding in my ears, was to work this miracle? Was it fated that I should come under so great obligations to that man? It was a strange turn in the wheel of fortune. James and his father concurred in the suggestion; and Sir Edward told the doctor to do, in all things, as he thought for the best. We were agreed, that, in all probability, Delaney, for his own selfish pur- poses, really desired Agnes's recovery; and the very boldness of his offer, and the character of the medi- cine itself, led us to have faith in his sincerity. He had explained to Creamore the effect it would have, and had given him minute directions as to the times and manner of. administering itf. The doctor con- cluded to take the responsibility, telling us, that, even if our worst fears should be realized, the event Would be hastened but a day or two at the farthest. The medicine was administered that night, at the hour named by Delaney. The effect which it shortly produced was the same that had been foretold by him. Before morning the delirious mutterings, which had been almost constant, ceased; the extremities, which had begun to grow cold, grew warm again; and the trembling, fluttering pulse, which before could scarcely be distinguished, became calm and equal. Instead of profuse cold sweats, the skin was cov- ered with warm moisture; the breathing, which had been hard and oppressive, became regular and natural; and, for the first time in many days, Agnes fell into fn dy it   OAKRIDGE.        199 a profound sleep. The doctor did not leave her bedside for a moment. Delaney had directed, that, immediately upon her awaking, another dose of the medicine should be given her; and the doctor was unwilling to trust this duty to any one but himself. It was nearly noon before she awoke. For a moment the delirium appeared to have left her; a smile of recognition passed over her face: but the doctor had hardly time to administer the second potion, before she had fallen into a muttering, dozy state again. This, too, was as Delaney had predicted. Soon, however, as before, a deep sleep succeeded; and Creamore left the house to report to'Delaney as he had promised to do. He returned an hour after- wards. The result thus far was as favorable as could be wished.  I need not detail further the progress of Agnes's cure. Though several weeks passed away before she was able to leave her bed, her convalescence was as rapid as we could expect. Inez had left immedi- ately upon recovery being no longer doubtful; and Alice had taken her place in the sick-chamber. Delaney, when the doctor had reported the fact, that Agnes was able to leave her bed, had requested him to inform Sir Edward that what he had done was dictated entirely by selfishness; that, if once freed from the walls of a prison, he would devote what was left to him of life to avenging his son's death and his own wrongs; that he had saved the life of  Agnes, that she might some day share it with him; and that he need not let any sense of obligation  S           ..   -200       OAKRIDGE. int/erfere with his prosecution of the charges against him to the uttermost. He added, that if he per- sisted in feeling under obligations, notwithstanding there was no occasion for it, the release of Capt. Oglesby-who had only obeyed his orders, and knew absolutely nothing of the circumstances attending the disappearance of Agnes -would vastly more than cancelrthem; and ended by saying, "As for Hen-ry Oakridge, tell him that I have cursed him, and he shall be cursed. His hand is red with- innocent blood: it shall be stilldeeper dyed. The time is com- ing when he shall envy the happiness of the brute, and long for death, which shall -shun him. It will be my turn then, and he will find that I will not spare him. Let him do, his worst by me now!" The doctor repeated to Sir Edward the message of Delaney, and felt it to be his duty to inform me, 'also, of the threats that he had made against me, -.that, forewarned, I might be fore-armed. -- We had, b before this, thought of making the proposition to the, man, that, provided he would go back to Newport, pledging his word never again to return to America, we would withdraw the complaints against him,: and' obtain his release. Annie Williams. the maid-ser- , vant, who had voluntarily offered herself as a wit- ness against him, expressing contrition for the part.. she had acted under his directions, had been dis- charged some weeks before. "The Lapwing's " men, had also been suffered to depart, the captain alone, being detained in custody. We now concludedto I :recommend the discharge of the latter;, and it was   OAKRIDGE.         .201 on afterwards ordered. For Delaney we no longer It any thing of gratitude orpity. The obligation-- it could be called such--under which his selfish ving of the life of Agnes had laid us had been mcelled by the release of Oglesby, at his request. is threats against Agnes and myself left us at )erty to prosecute him, as he had said, to the ,termost; and we prepared to do so. We said )thing to Agnes of the part -he had taken in effect-  g her cure. ': From the Williams girl we learned all the facts     ; nnrected with the abduction 'of Agnes.- Delaney, seemed,-had met her. often at her brother's house, iring his stay there, while building his cabin; and td succeeded in convincing her that a great fraud   ? td bNen perpetrated by my father in his purchase the Spruce Point property. He also pretended Lat he had been wronged out of-a large sum of oney by Sir Edward Leroyd, before the latter had    i ft England for America, and that his object in ming to Wawenock was to compel Sir Edward to justice, and return him his own. The only why, i said, to accomplish this was by getting possession Agnes, his daughter; that, this done, the result-, ould be, that Sir -Edward would willingly pay as nsom the amount that he claimed to be due to him,  id-at the same time I could be compelled to sur- nder the Oakridge property to its rightful owners, ir brother and herself, in order to recover the    ' rung lady, to whom, he told her, I was engaged to married. The girl honestly believed every word   ,. ?!   202        OAKRIDGE. he said, and seeing, as she thought, an opportunity of regaining their own, entered heartily into: his plans, engaging herself to Agnes as a servant, as. already stated, and reporting to Delaney every thing- that she saw or heard at the Hall. When she occasion- ally absented herself, nominally for the purpose of visiting her brother, she, in fact, went to Mulligan's cabin. At one of these visits Delaney had given her a powder which she was to administer to Agnes when the time should come for putting their plans into execution. The last day of September was finally fixed upon. The plan of operations was as follows. Delaney was to be at the house a little before midnight. The powder, which would be almost immediate in its effect, was to be given to Agnes in a glass of wine or water, as soon as possi- ble after she should enter her chamber, in order that it might do its work before she had disrobed for the night.: When every thing was quiet throughout the house, and Agnes under the influence of the drug, Annie was to place a dim light at the window of her chamber, as a signal. Delaney was to enter the room by the secret passage. A boat, manned by him- self and Manfred, was to be in readiness at the land- ing near the house; and the four were to go together to the cave, which had been fitted up with ne- cessary furniture and wearing-apparel, and made comfortable for the reception of Agnes and her maid. Every thing was carried out as planned. Delaney, entering the chamber, took the unconscious girl in   OAKRIDGE.        203 his arms, and descended as he came, followed by Annie.- From the house to the boat was a short dis- tance only; and they were soon speeding across the bay to the place of landing. Delaney, whose strength seemed to be superhuman, carried Agnes, still uncon- scious, up the steep side of the mountain, and into the cave, whete the fire was still burning brightly on the hearth, - so short a time had been taken to suc- cessfully accomplish what it had required so many weeks to plan.    CHAPTER XIX. ' Letting I dare not wait upon I would, Like the poor cat i' the adage. '- MACBETH. WHEI Agnes was sufficiently recovered tobe able to converse without too much fatigue,: she gave us,. in detail, an account of her experience in the cave. She remembered nothing from the time of drinking the draught which her maid had given her the night of her abduction, till she found herself reclining on a couch in the strange apartment to which she had been conveyed. She could not tell whether it was night or day. A lamp was burning on a table near where she was lying, giving just light enough to make, the interior of the cavern look dismally dark and gloomy. A few embers smouldered on the -hearth; but there was no sign of living person or thing about the place. Agnes, at first terrified and bewildered, looked around her. At a loss to imagine where she could be, she arose, after a while, from the couch, and began to make an examination of the premises, seeking some avenue of escape. Nothing but solid walls of stone, rough and jagged, met her gaze. She- doubted not that she was a prisoner; and it needed no second thought to assure her that it was the work of her old enemy, Delaney. The nar- row passage that led from the cavern to the entrance 204   OAKRIDGE.         205 was discovered after a while, and explored by her for some distance, till the darkness became so intense, that she feared to go farther, and hastily retraced her steps, intending to resume her investigations by the aid of the lamp. Her courage rose with the hope which the discovery of the passage had excited; and the thought that she was in the power of Delaney, who might return at any minute, gave spurs to her endeavor. Seizing the lamp she again hurried along the passage, but had proceeded but a little farther than before, when a current of air extinguished the light, and she was again left in total darkuess. Hesi- tating for a moment whether she should retrace her steps as before, or attempt to penetrate farther, a glimmer of light, accompanied by a stronger current of air, made her aware that some one was entering the passage. Groping her way back to the cave, Agnes, not doubting that she was about to encounter Delaney, re-lighted the lamp, and awaited his coming with a firmness which surprised herself. That Dela- ney could entertain towards her any dishonorable designs did not occur to her; but, from her previous knowledge of him, she did not doubt that he would make use of any, even the most cruel means, to force her to consent to become his wife. The thought of the terrible anxiety which her father, her brother, and myself must feel, drowned, in a measure, her anxiety about herself; so that it was with no feeling of dread that she heard the steps approaching  through the passage. She was relieved, however, to find that it was Manfred, not his father, who entered 18 ; s   206       .OAKRIDGE. the :cave. He bore in his hand a large basket, which, :apparently without noticing Agnes, he deposited -on the table, and, having replenished the fire from a pile of wood near the chimney, he turned to depart. Agnes rose to follow him. Perceiving that suchlwas her intention, he broke the silence by saying,- "If you attempt to follow me' Miss:- Lerbyd, I shall be .obliged toa return, and remainmwith you till :the arrival of my father. Shall I go, or stay?" "Where am I?" asked Agnes, "and why have I been:immured in this fearful place?"  "I can answer no questions," replied the young man, ' except such as relate to your personal- omfort ,whlle here.- Can I do any thing to add to that?" ,:i' Why am I here?" repeated Agnes. "Can you not tell me. what are your intentions, or rather what are ;the intentions of your:father, to whom, I suppose, I am indebted for these elegant accommodations?" "I can tell you nothing," he answered. ' -My father will be here directly: ask him. Is there -any thing you want-?"  - I           : :"Yes,:my liberty., If I can't have that, mymaid," was the reply., 'The -boy bowed, and turned again to 'depart. Agnes, knowing that it would be useless to attemptto follow him, resigned herself, as best she could, to the situation, and, more and more surprised at the calm- nesB with which she contemplated her unfortunate condition, rather desired- than feared the coming of Delaney,. The bright fire on the hearth illuminated the: cavern suffciently:to enable: her to see distinctly .                 *  .   OABRIDGE.         207  every thing that it contained. It had been fitted up with an eye to the comfort of its occupant, whoever it might be ; and no pains had been spared to make it as attractive, as circumstances would admit. A soft carpet covered a portion of the floor; and the   :1 furniture, though plain, was new and neat. Some books, beautifully bound, were lying on the table; and on a stand, at the side of the couch from which she had risen, was a boiuquet of fresh flowers, arranged with exquisite taste. Beside the flowers was her own prayer-book, a gift from'her mother years be- fore. "He cannot be wholly vile," was her thought as she clasped the book to her- heart, welcoming it as  though it had been a living friend.       - Not many minutes after Manfred had left the cave, footsteps were again heard treading the passage ; and Delaney himself soon stood in the presence of Agnes Leroyd.- He was neatly dressed. A military -cloak covered his shoulders ; and, in the dimming light -of - the cavern, he looked as if he might be one of the genii, of the place. Apparently riot in the  slightest degree disconcerted, and speaking asfif he anticipated a welcome, rather than as one who had just done'her so great a wrong, he said to Agnes,-- "It gives me great pleasure to see you again, Miss Leroyd, though I would have preferred to meet you  under somewhait different circumstances. ' I have   :/ waited, as you' see, till informed that you were pre-  "! pared to receive me, before- presuming to enter your presence. Your apartment is not so comforiable as : V,  e E!,  -  -  -  ;  - , Xii   208        OAKRIDGE. I could wish; but I trust you find it not altogether distasteful." The sound of his voice seemed -to awaken Agnes from the unnatural calmness, which, up to this time, she had maintained. The old feeling of hatred and abhorrence.- returned to her: she shuddered, and turned pale, and, with a cry of terror, sank fainting' to the floor.   - When she returned to consciousness, Annie the maid was by her bedside. Her eyes were red with weeping; and she moaned continually to herself, like one in pain. Rejoiced to find that the request she had made of-Manfred had been so readily granted, and-haying no suspicion that Annie was privy to her abduction, Agnes welcomed the girl with expressions of affectionate regard. She was not, however,-able to learn" any 'thing from the maid concerning the place of her confinement, Annie only informing her that she had been brought blindfold to the cave after recovering from the stupor into which she led her to- believe she had also been cast, at the same time and by the same agency as herself. This, of course, was but the fictitious account which it had been arranged between Delaney and herself should be told to Agnes. The redness of her eyes, and the grief she had mani- fested, she attributed to sorrow at being separated from her mistress, and at finding her in the uncon- scions state in which she lay when she was brouight to the cave to attend her.     - The basket which Manfred had brought contained table-ware and eatables of various kinds-; and Annie   OAKRIDGE,.        209 set about laying the table, going to the work with a cheerfulness which contrasted strangely with the despondency of a few minutes before. - As sheo took the several articles from the basket, she would have something amusing to say about each-:, and: her ex- ample -in making- the best of the situation: ha-d its/ effect upon her mistress; :-so that when thee table was: laid, and the formal announcement made, with mock: solemnity, that dinner was served, Agnes, 'faint from her long fast, was able -to, do something like justice to the really excellent repast that had been. provided. Except in the- presence -o Delaney, she did not, during the entire six weeks of her stay in the cave, experience any more of-apprehension or alarm than she had felt all along since her recogni- tion of him on shipboard; and though, at first, the thought sometimes occurred to her, that her food or  drink might again be drugged, she, after a Iwhile, dismissed the fear as groundless, and, knowing -the uselessness of giving-way to grief that: must be un-, availing, remained calm and patient, trusting in God,' and never doubting that He would protect her from: the machinations of her captor, and restore her again- to her friends. During the first two weeks of her confinement, Agnes saw but little of Manfied; but his-fathier came daily to the cave, and, at each of his' visits, would address to the shuddering girl some -remark - which left no doubt of his intentions towards her.   ' He seemed to delight in reiterating the story of what he .had done in order to get her into *his- possession; ; 18* ,      * ,   210       OAKRIDGE. and, in his mad infatuation, claimed that Providence, out of pity for his wrongs, was aiding him to right them. He had watched, so he told her, with satis- faction, her intimacy with myself, and waited for it to grow into love, that she might appreciate the agony of being separated forever from the loved one, and know something of the wretchedness to which she would have doomed him. It was happiness, he said, to see her and be with her daily; but she was not to think that he would rest content with that only. There were no barriers that love such as his would not break down; and the time would come, when, if she still refused to be his wife, he should -make her so against her will; that, in his desire for revenge, he had once threatened the worst that could befall her, but now offered her honorable marriage, with all the comforts of a luxurious home, and a depth of love which she could not fathom in a lifetime; and that no power save that of death should ever again snatch from his grasp what was of right his in the sight of God and man, - as much his as though the words that made her so had been pro- nounced over them at the altar by a priest in the church of God. At other times Delaney would plead with her, telling her of his utter wretchedness, and begging her to take pity on him. At such times, and at such times only, would Agnes answer him, and then bat'  to say that perpetual imprisonment, or death even, were preferable to liberty coupled with the life which he was offering her. She determined, from.   OAKRIDGE.        2" the first, that the only safe course 'for her to pursue was to meet his threats with silent contempt, and his entreaties with such positive denial, that he could not fail to see the hopelessness of his suit. Much as she- longed for release from confinement, she would not attempt to purchase her liberty'by seeming even to yield to his solicitations; and the days went b-y, each like the one that had preceded it, till more than a fortnight had passed away since she had been brought to the cave. After this, Delaney's manner changed: he appeared to be morose, and impatient of something, and came into her presence- with a sul- lenness of mien, and a forbidding aspect, that seemed to be ominous of more fearful things -to come. The visits of Manfred, about this time, began to be more frequent; and Agnes 'noticed that the young man never came without bringing with him a book or flowers, or something designed to minister to her comfort, or make more cheerful the place of her con- finement. He was, besides, so respectful in his demeanor,' and evidently so anxious to be of service to her,'that it was a pleasure to have him come; and, before a month had passed, the boy would-!spend hours" reading aloud to her from the books that he brought, or with which the cave was already pro- vided, and would try, in so many ways, to relieve the monotony of her every-day life, that Agnes began to feel that she had in him an ally, and to regard him with almost sisterly affection. On sev- eral occasions she had sought from him information as to where she was, and as to the intentions of his N\   ?22 .2 OAKRIDGE. "father regarding her; .but the boy would only reply, that, if she continued to question him on;the subject, -his visits' to the cave must cease; and.'she finally abandoned the attempt as futile.  She had long "before ascertained that it was useless for her to at- tempt to effect her escape. A heavy oaken door, secured from without, barred the ,entrance; and the -aperture 'at -the -side, before spoken of, which sup- plied the cave with all the sunlight and air that it :'had, was altogether' too narrow to allow of the pas- 'sage of the body,:though it enabled her to catch a 'glimpse of the 'outer world, and occasionally to see and to hear the birds'among the trees. As the visits of Manfred increased 'in frequency :and in length, those of Delaney became fewer and :shorter, till, for a while, they ceased altogether. :Relieved from the odious presence' of the father, 'Aginescontinrued to welcome the son with pleasure, and to'treat him with all the kindliness of her affec- t'ionaten hature. She regarded him as a mere boy, aind';W as- grateful to' him for his 'little acts; ofkind- iness,"aind the'--evident interest he manifested in her eliare ;'rand, to still further relieve 'the 'monotony, she undertook to instruct him in the Spanish lan- -guage, which sh e spoke fluently, and which Manfred had exfpressed a desire to learn. You have probably foreseen the end of all this. -The boy was of that age when the hetart is especially susceptible, and, inheriting from his father his peculiarly passionate naturie, Agnes, to 'her inexpressible grief and hor- ror,' beheldl him:,- buit a day or'two:' before- her rescue, x    i-u   Irrst,   OAKRIDGE.        213 throw himself upon his knees, and sob out his love at her feet. "Forgive me," he said, "forgive me I! but I could not deliver this letter,'till I had told you of my love;"        . So saying, he took from his pocket -a note, which he handed to Agnes. -"You must leave me, 1vManfred," she said, " and at once. Do not come here again,.unless you would make me more wretched even than I am. If you have for me the affection which you say you have, you can best prove it by staying away. A little. while, believe me, and you will laugh at what you may now think a serious thing, and thank me for being wiser than you." The young man might, and possibly would, have obeyed her, and gone, had not Annie, who had heardcl it all, and who, for some reason, had long before taken a strong dislike to, him,/probably because he had treated her always .with haughty indifference, said to him coarsely, "What do you mean, you little jackanapes! making love- to Miss Leroyd before you are out of your swaddling-clothes? Go back -to your father, and tell him from me that you, are a pair: of fools." Agnes ordered the girl to; stop, and turned again to Manfred, whose face was, for a moment, livid with passion. "Despised by the mistress, and in- suited by the maid," said the -boy. "God I if she were only a man!"  It, was fortunate, perhaps, that Delaney, just at this- moment, was heard coming up the .passage-way: .   214        OAKRDUGE. It was more than a week since he had last entered the cave. His face bore the marks of pain and sleeplessness; and, he looked like a man who had been long struggling with himself. The presence of his father had the effect to restore Manfred to him- self; so that the former would hardly have perceived that any thing unusual had happened, if Annie had not broken in with the remark, "L Look at your boy, there, Mr. -Mulligan, or Delaney, or whatever your name may be! -He has been following your example, and offering himself to Miss Leroyd, with -no better luck than you have had. And, look you, I am get- ting tired of being a looker-on at this sort of thing, an!d won't stand it much longer." (: Silence- woman!" said Delaney; and, turning to Agnes, he said, "I have come, Miss Leroyd, as I wrote you I should, for an answer to my note." The note to which he alluded was- the one just before handed to Agnes by Manfred, and which she still- held in her hand. Of its contents. she knew nothing:; and she so informed: Delaney, passing it, unopened, to Annie, to be returned tohim..  "You little know what- you are doing," he skid, "-I have for days been aware of the infatuation of my son, and have: regarded it as the judgmentt of Heaven: that I should abandon the hopes, that I have cherished so fondly, and, in the note which you have scorned to open, have offered :to restore you to your home, upon condition only, that my poor boy and myself, be allowed to return unmolested to Newport. This offer was made in the .hope ,h:tlt I might be   OARRIDGE.        215 arranged before Manfred, had made known to you his passion, that he might be spared the paih- of a rejeption; but it seems that the knowledge of my intention has precipitated his action. That this intention, formed only after long days of struggle with myself, has been thwarted by you, proves to me that this love of the boy is no judgment, on me, and that, as I have heretofore believed, Heaven wills that I carry out my original purpose. If I hesitate again, I will have in this unopened note ' a spur to prick the sides of my intent.' I shall be no longer' like the poor cat i' the adage.' Oppose not, then, the will of' Heaven! Reconcile yourself to what fate has ordained! The motto. of your house shall be exemplified in your experience as in that of your ancestor;. and as the wife of Delaney, which you are destined to be, you will one day wonder how you could have opposed 'his wishes so long. Hereafter, let that man beware who would come between me and my purpose! . He- shall be swept away like chaff before the wind; -and the places that know him shall know him no more for* ever." Delaney had spoken like an enthusiast, and: was Ovidently sincere in the belief that had all along actu- ated him, that he was hbut carrying out the .pre-or- lained designs of Providence. His manner, since she had seen him last, had: changed so materially, and his whole appearance was so different from-what  it had hitherto been, that Agnes looked upon him with amazement not unmingled with pity. She re- \ ' .   216        OAKRIDGE. garded him as a monomaniac, and, for the first time in her'life, listened to him without those feelings of hatred and aversion that had hitherto made -his presence intolerable. Manfred, in the mean time, had stood with clinched hands and averted face, a little way distant, hearing all that was said by his father. 6'-You will come with me," said the latter, addressing- his son. "To you, girl," turning to Annie, "I have somewhat to say. Meet me an hour hence at the end of the passage.'  - He turned to depart. Manfred, instead of follow- ing -him, remained as motionless and apparently as unconscious as a statue. Even when the command had been repeated, the boy replied only with a motion of his hand, as if waving his. father away; and it was not till the latter had approached, and taken him by the arm, that he opened his mouth. ,' Leave me here, father," he said. "I must see Miss I'eroyd alone for a moment.  If you have something to say to this woman, can you not as well say it to her now as an hour hence?- - Take her with you to the door of the :passage, where H will join ,you directly." - Delaney, having in vain tried to dissuade him, finally yielded to his solicitations, and, telling Annie to accompany-him, passed into the passage, followed by the girl; and Agnes was left alone with- Man- fred,  " You look upon me as -a boy, and treat me as such, Miss Leroyd," he said to her, without mibving from where he was standing; -" but the --experience   OAKRIDGE.;         217- of --the -last five months has, added as- many years to my age. I am no longer a child; aid the- love I have givenyou can- know--no change, though' you may- scorn the gift and the giver.'  ,, I do not scorn you, Manfred, nor the love that you offer. me," answered Ag-nes. .- "But I can never, be-to you more than-I noow-am, your grateful friendi and well-wisher; and it is better that we shouldc! not meet again. Alas! why is' itthat my life is so clouded with misfortunes ? ' Tell me, Maiifred,'" she exclaimed appealingly, "'tell me where I am,. and how it is with my father and brother, and 'Oakridge of X the: Hall.:  Tell mie I and, in lieu of the love' which. it is not- iin my power to) give, receive the grateful affection and blessings of- an unfortunate: girl.,  " I have promised my father to answer now ques - tions respecting the place of your confinement, or the persons of whom you speak.- It was the' condi-: tion ~upon. which he -permitted :me visit you ; and' I, cannot -break my word," said the boy. "I had thought," he continued;:,"that your return- to your friends was determined on: but my fath'er is `a,' monomaniac in, his passion;  arid what- he resolves. upon--to-day- he retracts- to-morrow.  'Of this, how- ever, you may rest assured, that not a hair of: your head p:shall be: injured -while Manfredi Delaney- lives- to protect you, though my father himself be the one. who attempts it. It was to tell you this that I remained behind ;- *and believe- me, Miss  Leroyd, though powerless, at -present:, to assist you, when''   218        OAMRIDGE. 'the" time shall come (and it will c'mee shortly) that I can do so, you will find that the: boy who has dared to love you will dare to :save you, though he sacrifice himself in the effort.'" '  When he: had said this, apiproaching Agnes, he put out his hand, at the same time Ubiddiig:her "fare- well:; ' ad, raising the and;wiic she extend to -. : .him, he itouched it with his lips,. and was gone. S'oon afterwards Annie' returned. Delaney, as she isubsequenti y informed6:-us, had called her out' to acquaint heriwiti: the fact of. the arri'val -of ' The Lapwing," and that every thing would be in readi- ness oni-the morrow -for demanding the ransom; which the girlhad 'begun to believe was but a 'ruse of Delaneys.  Agnes observed that she was more cheerful thani she had 'been for the last few weeks of their st-ay in the cave, and inquired the reason; to w'iich she replied that their jailer had notified her t ma@ke.. ready for leaving, but. she professed igno- -ranc-e of the- place to which they :were to bere- moved.- .      . .      " - After so long a confinement in the bowels of the earth, as it were, the prospect of a change, though 'shie k  'iew no: t wheether it would be: for the; better 'or -the] worse, was welcomed with great joy by Agnes. Her :faithi n her res0toration -to her home had neyver for' a moment: abandoned : ier ; anid :sheregarded" er -removal from .the cave as the first step towa'rds approaching that end. 'The Ifo6llo wi ' mrnin g Manfred again entereda the cave. He was aware of: the unatadi;ibei-been   OAKRIDGE.         --219 his .father and' the Williams girl, .and knew how the former was deceiving her as to the object in view in the abduction of Agnes. He dared not say to the latte-r, in the hearing of the-maid, what he had come to communicate, and waited for an .opportunity to speak with. Agnes, without being overheard by the girl. ;She seemed, however, to comprehend. his wishes, and to be determined to thwart them. ", Do you speak French, Miss Leroy d? Manfred  suddenly asked- in that language,; at: the same time taking a book from the table and, being answered in the'affirmative, laid before her the facts that have already been detailed, of the arrival of the schooner, and the intentions of his father respecting her. ; Every thing will be in readiness .to-night," he con- eluded: -. act as if you knew and suspected nothing. Above all, do not let your maid know that you are aware' of -what is to happen to-night. My 'father. has, promised that you shall descend with me into the boat that is to take us: to the vessel. I will see to it that we go first; and, as soon as fairly aboard; the. boat shall be shoved :off, and headed for.-your father's house, which is, nearer than you think.. .S ho'uld the 'boatman hesitate, or refuse 'to obey m-e, I ,have. the, where-withi to co mp'el hi,' 'hih cContinued, drawing a pistol from his pocket. (' You shall be restored this ni'ghJt to your home and, your friends; and .after that' ;it' matters rnot what "the, future may have in' store for me. I shall be ,happ  in, the thought'.that you- are' once m-ore happy, and that I have hel ped to make you so.'  . ; *- h' .   22l        -OAKRIDGE.? 4 You must, not be --rash, "Manfred"A nes ,'an- swered, pointing to. the pistol which' he still held in his -hand. :, "Besides,-it would be- selfish -in gne, to allow you to incur the enmity of your father, and so to sacrifice your own -interests'-by thus seeking to: aid me. Rather leape me to my: fate.; Heaven, ins: its own good time, Iwill restore me to my--home; and., I :had rather, endure. for a while longer than to feel- that my release had: brought- misfortune upon you." ( The-worst misfortune that can befall either of . us, is to have, youremain in th6e power of my- father,' hei answered. ' After to-night, I shall be powerless to help you. You must let me do as I will."            - ,  Agnes raised no further objections ;' and Manfred took his leave. The Williams girl-had understood nothing of the-conversation which had taken place between them, and, from -his taking the Spanish text-: book from  the table, had, at first, supposed, that they were resuming the lessons before spoken of.* When the pistol was shown, she had started forward as if to protect her mistress, but, upon being assured by Agnes that there was no cause -for, alarm,;!had: quietly resumed her seat. It was evident,:however,  before :the , interview-terminated, -that she suspecte:d: something^ was being -said which it was :desired should; :not. be understood by her; and, ,when -the? young-man left the cave, she followed him, and said, ' loud :enough: for :Agnes to hear, :, Tell "your- father that t wishto see him,g and at once."    spt.. : Fromlthe caution 'that Maitfred had- gisvenh:respect.;5:   -O B1DGE.        ;:22:1 ing the girl, and as the result of her own observa- tions, especially the fact of her private conversations with Delaney, and of her now sending word for him to meet her, Agnes had begun to -suspect that Annie had all along been deceiving her, and that she'was but a creature .of Delaney's. This suspicion would of itself have deterred -her from informing- the girl of the proposed rescue, even ihad she felt inchned so to do; but, in spite of iher: efforts to the contrary, she could not prevent the joy that she felt at the prospect of a speedy release from showing -itself in her countenance and in--her speech. Deception or disguise was so foreign too her nature, that she was but a poor actress in the part she was trying to play; and the maid-servant, noticing her increased cheer- fulness, said to her, -  "I am glad; Miss Leroyd, to see you so happy-in -: the prospect of a removal from one prison to another. As for myself, I don't see Ithe difference between being here in: Wawenock, underground, or " . .. -',We are -then- in :Wawenock still,' 'interrupted Agnes. , How did you learn that?'and why haveni't' you told me before?" , The: confusion into which the question threw the- girl convinced her mistress :still more that she shad reason to suspect her .fai:thfulness;- It -was not-;i n her nature to mistrust another, even a servant, with- out at once informing the suspected person of the fact; and she therefore said to Annie that she was grieved to be forced to believe that she had been deceiving- her, through all' :the: months :that 'She had 19*                 . #    . ',   222      e  OAKRIDGE. been with her, and, givingt her reasons, asked for an explanation. Annie said, in reply, that she would soon know whether her suspicions were well founded or not, and attempted to explain away the suspicious cir- cumstances to which Agnes had alluded. "I have been truer to you than you think, Miss Leroyd," she said in the course of the conversation. - But for me, you might have received at the hand of your jailer different treatment from that you have re- ceived. You have at -least been saved from insult; and, if I do' know more than I have .seemed to kniow, I have' remained with you, a voluntary prisoner, through all these weeks." - "That is true," replied Agnes ; " and I thank you for its let your motives be what they may." Between the time of this conversation and -that of the rescue, as narrated in preceding pages, but little occurred Worthy- of special mention.  The. day passed away, and the night came On; but Agnes saw no more of Delaney or his son. The last that she recollected of her stay in the caver was Annie's bringing to her, as, usual, a cup of --tea, which she drank.: Unconsciousness followed, as before; and she awoke to find herself, once more in the midst of her friends. x          p   CHAPTER ,XX. ,iForgotten quite All former scenes of dear delight, ,Nosympathies like these his soul employ; But all is dark within." --PENROSE- THnE anxiety which the illness of Agnes had oMca- sioned, the excitement that had attended -upon my every-day life from'the day of her rescue till she was once more restored to health, and the strange manner of her curei, had -served to distract my thoughts from  a. serious contemplation of my' own situation, in view of the part I had taken in effecting her rescue, and of the events which had accompanied. it. But now: that there was- no longer occasion for apprehension as to- the result, so far as Agnes was concerned, I found myself, when alone,  ontinually 'reviewing the -scenes in which I had been an actor for the past few months ;J and the consciousness, that I had been the causeof the death of Manfred: Dela- ney, at the very time when, in Tvoluntarily returning to her father and to me the object of his young heart's adoration, he. was sacrificing every thing he held dear to a chivalrous sense of duty, that he might thereby prove how unselfish he was in his-love of her, made me, for the while, so despondent, that it was with difficulty that I could overcome the feeling, 223   ; ;224        OAKRIDGE. even when in the' presence of Agnes. She, too, it seemed to me, had changed: somewhat. It was with an effort, I thought,- that shei made herself appear cheerful; and, even in her most affectionate moments, I could not repress the feeling, that she tried to make herself so, lest I might think that she was lamenting the fate of her boy-lover? who had died in his effort ,o^ve her. The curse of-Delaney, too, was con- : '   ly? riyginging in my ears; and as I thought of him, ^ mrisoned  for strivi,-4n his love, to obtain what:I - felt I we!:la!^ '^^/f sooner than surrender, and remehm'i:l he)e aony which he had displayed upon seo ei.-.-'ei ead body of his son, knowing the while how:':wrthy that son was of all the love that could be given him, I felt that I was not so much sinned against as sinning; and the impulse was- to go to Delaney and ask his forgiveness, offering myself as his bail, that he might be freed from the imprisonment -to yhich, it seemed to me, I had consigned him. Had -/ne so, had I been permitted to carry out this im- pulse of my heart, I think now that it would have been much better for me and for all of us; but the stern, unimpassioned lawyers, who, with Sir Edward Leroyd, were:the arbiters of so muchrof my destiny, would not listen to the suggestion. They could see only the crime that had been :committed. To ana- lyze the motive, to pardon something to the spirit which actuated the deed, to look into the heart of the criminal and see there the workings of a love- (or a hate induced by love despised, call it which you will that -was all-controlling,- and to understand- .the    OAKtRIDGE.        225 woe which the loss of his only' child, and such a one, must occasion, was beyond the lawyers' ken. Delaney to them was Delaney the housebreaker and abductor, not Delaney the lover and the father; and, could they have made the penalty for his offence life-imprisonment, they would have thought the pun- ishment far below what justice demanded: but it has ever been a source of regret and remorse almost to me, that I suffered myself to be controlled by them so far as to let the law take its course. To say nothing of the gratitude that I could but feel for the saving of the life of/Agnes, I would not believe that it was self-interest only that moved the Oman to pre- scribe the remedy that effected the- cure. There was pity, and human synpathy, and forgetfulness of self, in the act'; at least, it seemed so to me; and instead of reflecting on the great wrong that Delaney had intended to perpetrate, and had, in part, effected, I thought only of the terrible fate of his son, and the misery that I had thereby brought upon him. The blood of the innocent, as Delaney had said, was in- deed upon my hands; and, despite all my efforts to rid myself of the feeling that I was little better than a. murderer, I was unable to do so. He had called me, in his " curse," "t son of a bastard sire-;" and-though, at the first, I had regarded it but as the . venom of an enemy's madness, I now began to fear that he might be familiar with that of which I was profoundly ignorant  , am the life-history of my father prior to his- leaving England; and that the sen- sitiveness that I had always felt on the subject of my   .  . . . ..   226        OAKRIDGE. ancestry might have, in reality, more, of reason in it than my fears had ever imagined. This fear, that,- in so addressing me, Delanev knew whereof he spoke, added greatly to the feelings of despondency which the thought of Manfred's death by my hand had occasioned; and I became, in fact, before three months had passed,- a hypochondriac, shunning, at times,- even the presence of Agnes, and for days avoiding her and my other friends altogether, till finally I refused to leave the Hall, or to receive any visitors, not excepting my guardian, Sir Edward or his son, Agnes least of all. Meanwhile the springtime had passed; and June in all her beauty had come, bringing in her train the bloom of flowers, and- the melody of birds, and the gay lIughter of little chil- dren, and joy to every thing; But to me the flowers and the melody, and the laughter of the beautiful month, brought nothing of joyousness; they were as if they had not been: and my twenty-second birth- day found me sunk in -gloom, my house my prison, and myself my jailer, more melancholy than the poor wretch that Penrose pictured, brooding over my misfortunes, and indifferent to every thing near or removed. The life that I have passed in this little house, my home for so many years, has not been more solitary than was that of the weeks of which I am writing. At times, thoughts of self-destruction would force themselves into my mind; and it was with difficulty that I could keep myself from seeking the relief that they suggested. One desire alone restrained me; and that was the determination to as- i^ H      '    -   OAKRIDGE.         227 certain the truth or falsity of Delaney'ss assertion, that I was the son of a- bastard- sire. In my foolish- ness, iI felt that I -coluld not- again look upon any one I had ever-known, until I had satisfied myself beyond a peradventure that the charge was false' and -mali- cious. Dr. Creamore, who alotle, besides myself, knew of the' charge, was the only :person whom-- H-had admitted to the Hall after tmy-refusal to- see any visitors; and to him, on the morning of my birthday, I had Utold, as to one who already knew, all- the troubles that were assailing -me, alid the determina- tion at which I had arrived respecting- the aceusation of Delaney. Many times before he had requested my confidence in vain. I now volunteered it. He listened patiently to my story, and said, when I had finished it,- "It was on my tongue, Oakridge, to say that you: are a fool; butthe fact is, that you are only foolish, and foolish only because you are -not a fool. d The experiences of the past nmine months have: been too much; for you, and, pardon me for saying it, during all that time you have eaten too little, and drunk too much.- Your nervous :system is all unstrung, and what you believe to be owing solely to a high-sense of honor, and to feelings natural upon 1regret,' or remorse if you will have it, so, :for acts done which( you- could wish undone, isreally attributable to the terrible ordeal- through which you have -passed, and the unnatural means you have adopted to' sustain your. courage and your strength while you were pass- ing through it. Believe me, if you will listen to   228        OAKRIDGE. me, and heed my advice, all can vet be well with you."                - - "And what would you advise, sir?"I replied, speaking in a tone which he could not fail to inter- pret as-indicative of my opinion of his impertinence; for as such I regarded it.         - "That you leave off drinking brandy, mingle again with your friends, and attend to business as of old;" was his reply. "Believe me," he added, "' my advice is the advice not only of your physician, but ofyour friend. Will you not follow it, and be your- self again?" "So you believe," I said, rising, "that drink is the sole cause of all my trouble. Answer me this: Is Manfred Delaney dead? and did Agngs Leroyd, on awaking, ask first for him? Is Hugh Delaney in prison, cursing me daily as he cursed me the night that his son fell by my hand? Was my father basely born? Answer me all these questions in the. nega- -five, and I will believe that I am not myself, and that drink has made me mad." Creamore was silent for a moment, looking at me fixedly.  Probably he was .revolving in his mind what it was best for him to do. I needed no reflec- t tion to decide upon the course that I was to pursue. Taking my purse from my pocket, I tossed it to him, saying, "Please count the contents, and see if it pays your bill: if not enough, I will send you more: if there is any thing 'over; give it to the first man you meet more impertinent than yourself." He rosea without a word, and moved towards the  oes h   -OAKRrDGE.        229 door. Before he passed out, I called to him to come back, and, as he turned, raised to my- lips a full goblet of brandy, which I had poured out as he was crossing the room, and saying, "You have forgotten your money, Dr. Creamore," drained the glass. He gave me a look, and was gone. Hardly had the door closed behind him, before I felt an uncontrollable impulse to follow. It seemed to me that I was showing a craven spirit to let a man who had so grossly insulted me in my own house leave it unpunished. My pistols were lying on the table, almost within reach of where I was standing. They had been loaded since the night of the rescue. Taking them from the table, I rushed madly from the room. The brandy, of which I had partaken so freely, had set my brain on fire. I had but one desire, and that was to be revenged upon Creamore. He must fight me then and there; and I laughed as I thought of what could not fail to be the result. I might fall: I cared not for that. But his death was certain; for could I not drive a nail at twenty paces? and was- there any one, far or near, who carried so steady a hand, or took so sure an aim? If he refused to fight me, I would shoot him like a dog; and I laughed again as I thought that he could not escape me. More than twoscore years have passed since that day, yet the events of it are as fresh as if they were of yesterday. I recall, as I write, the whole scene ,as vividly as if it had just passed in panorama before me. Indeed, I believe it to be true that the mind is 20   230        OARIDGaE. never so susceptible of impressions as when on the verge of dementia, and never retains so strongly as when'about to lose all power of receiving; and I can easily believe that a man struck blind- in an instant might, if as suddenly restored to sight, see again the image of the last object his eyes rested on; or, if as suddenly made' deaf, might, upon a similar' restora- tion, hear again the sound that last floated to his ears, and in neither case ever forget the sensation. The lall -that led -from the library: to the en'trance- door was short and narrow; and Creamore lad passed out of the house, and was some distance fron it, when I stood on the outer threshold.' He was still, however, within easy-shot. I called to him' to stop, at the same  time covering him with .one of the pistols.  He turned at once, and said, without any, sign of trepidation in voice or manner, "Lower your pistol, Oakridge: I will come to you." His firmness pleased me. "He is a man of mettle," I said to my-' self as: I lowered the weapon, "'and will fight me like a man."    ' .. Creamore advanced rapidly, and halted only when close beside me. "What do you want of me, Oakridge?'" he asked. "Satisfaction;"I  answered. "Satisfaction for 'what? ?" "For the insult you offered me."' " Insult I' When and how have I insulted you?" he said.  "I am :not responsible for the 'shortness of your memory, sir; and: it is not for me to make expla-   OARIDGE.         231 nations. Will you fight me, or not?" was my answrer.  " I will fight no one without knowing the where- fore: least of all you," he replied. " Would you insult me again?" I shouted, the devil within me againassuming the mastery.  Know this,, then, that you shall fight me here and now, or die in your tracks." I"will die sooner than fight you," he said, folding his arms, and fixing his eyes upon me, as he had done once before that day. " Shoot, if you will.". He held me with the eye, as did the Ancient Mari- ner the Wedding Guest. I was powerless before it. The pistols dropped from my hands; and I suffered myself to be led back into the house, " like a three- years' child." "It is worse even than I feared, and miust be at- tended to at once," I heard himl. say to himself; for my hearing was strangely acute. At the same time he touched the silver bell, which, used for calling the servants, was on the table near by. "Why do you ring that bell?" I asked. "You are taking strange liberties, sir. Pray tell me, is this house yours, or mine ?" "Suffer me to have my will," was his answer; and I felt that his eyes were upon me, and, like the Wedding Guest, " stood still" ia spite of myself. A man-servant came in answer to the bell. " Bring me the writing-materials from the library," said the doctor, who, on entering the house, had taken me into the drawing-room. There was no sideboard there.  232        OAKrIDGE. "Be within hearing of the bell, John," -he said to the man, as he turned to go out after fetching the writing-desk. All this while he had kept his eyes fixed on me. I knew, even when I was not looking at him, that not for a moment did he lose sight of me. But now I watched him with an eagerness which I could not conceal. My opportunity, I thought, was come. To write the note, he must take his eyes off me, and fix them on the paper. The pen was already in his hand, the -paper before him. I approached nearer the table at which he had seated himself. He :com- menced to write. A moment later, and H was con- scious that the- ' glittering eye " was no longer upon me.: With a bound I was at his side; but, quick as had, been my action, his was no less so. Before I could seize him, he had sprung from his seat, and was standing with folded arms, and eyes fixed on me as before. "Back to your seat, Oakridge!" he said. "I was expecting this." I obeyed the eye, not the voice. The note was written and despatched. It must have been nearly an hour afterwards that my guar- dian and Sir Edward Leroyd entered the room. During all that time, not a word had passed between Creamore and me.  I had forbidden, as I have already stated, the admission to the Hall of any person except the doctor; and when, without any previous announcement, the two gentlemen came into my presence, I was furious with indignation. Though I surmised at onice that they had come in   OAKERDGE.        233 answer to Creamore's note, I rose to my' feet, and, addressing Sir Edward, asked'by wha't authority he dared, unbidden and unannounced, to intrude upon myprivacy. But for fear-of the doctor, whose eye had made of me the veriest coward, I believe H -should have rushed upon them, and forced them from the room. Sir Edward did not reply to my question; but my guardian, gazing upon me with a look full of solici- tude, approached and said,- "Have you no word of welcome for me, Oak- ridge? Will you not listen to your mother's' friend, whom but so lately you seemed: glad to call your own?" "What would you of me?"I answered. "State your message quickly, and begone!" I believe it was the mention of my mother that caused me to answer him at all. '"I bring no message, Oakridge," was his reply. '"You are ill, very ill, - so ill, that your friend the doctor, alarmed at your condition, has sent for us. Do you think he would have done so, if there were no occasion for it?" ' "Dr. Creamore is no friend  of mine, sir,'i I replied. "Like yourself, he is an unwelcome visitor. Have I not heard somewhere that you lawyers have a legal maxim, that ' a man's house is his castle'? My tutissimum refugium, it seems, must have a port- Cnllis. . . ....... .  While my :guardian and myself were thus occu- pied, Sir Edward and the doctor had been engaged 20* s .         #y   234        OAKRIDGE. in earnest conversation, but carried on in so low a tone, that I could catch only now and then a word. My guardian now joined them. The intense excite- ment under which, for the past hour or two, I had been laboring, had in some degree subsided. My mind was no longer "on murderous thoughts intent." I longed only to be rid of my self-invited visitors, that I might return to my library. The sideboard was there. The doctor, who was watching me intently, could not fail to see how often my eyes turned towards the door that led from the drawing-room to the library. He understood thoroughly what was passing in my mind, and said, - "You were -used 'to offer to your friends the hos- pitalities of your house, Oakridge. With your per- mission, I will ring the bell, and order refreshments sent to the library." "You seem to be master here: do as you please," I answered. "You need not ring: I will speak to a servant as I go through the hall," said Sir Edward, passing out of- the room. In a few minutes he returned; and shortly after- wards the servant announced that lunch was served, and we entered the library. I did not take a seat at the table; but, going at once to the mahogany side- board -then thought to be an indispensable piece of furniture in every gentleman's household, poured from the decanter a brimming goblet of brandy, and swallowed it at a draught. The others, I noticed, drank sparingly of rum.   CHAPTER XXI. "Improbe amor, quid non mortalia pectora cogis?" - VIRGIL. draught had been drugged, under the direction of the doctor, by Sir Edward Leroyd when' he left the room, nominally for the purpose of summoning a' servant. Seeing that, in my then condition, it would be impossible to do any thing with inme by entreaty or command. .Dr. Creamore had, in his note, re- quested my guardian to bring with him to the Hall a. quantity of tincture of opium, believing, as the even Iproved, that the most practicable, and inideed the only way to get me under control was by means of some such agency. It was with this tincture that the brandy Was drugged. The effect of the draught, though not instanta- neous, was decisive. I soon fell into "a profound sleep, from which I did not awaken until late in the morning of the following day, when 'I foiund' myself lying abed in my own chamber. The :doeto i was standing by my bedside, with: his hand upon my wrist, feeling the puis'; James Leroyd stood near him; and an: elderly female, Whose face was stsrange to me, was moving on tiptoe about the room. I will not record the events of the weeks that fol- 285 'eouswas dcisiveI-'sons fel into"'a pofou, sleep, from wich I did-notawaken until ate in 'th e    236         OAKRIDGE. lowed. It was long before my system' recovered from the shockl; and, when finally allowed to leave my room, I was but the shadow of my   former self. :My mind, however, had regained its sanity; and the megrims, whichrhad beset me like so many demons, were put" to flight, thanks to tltheconstant attention. :and care of the doctor, and the faithful nursing that I received at, the' hands of the female attendant. :My illness was,- in fact, mainly attributable, as Crea- *more had- said, to the intemperate use of stimulants. :I had been on the verge of that terrible disease cahlled by the ph'ysicians,gania a otu ; and only the strong measures taken by the doctor had prevented :me from falling a victim to it. During my illness, your father'was with me almost constantly, when he /could be away from the business of the firm, which, *as;I have elsewhere intimated, had become large and'lucrative, I have said that the fancies which had beset me had : all been dissipated; but the determination to investi- gatel the triuth 'or falsity of Delaney's- assertion, that Ifwas :the son of a bastard sire, still remained. A  year yoii will remember, had been fixed by Sir Edward as the period which must elapse between the betrothal and:marriage of Agnes and myself. It was now:the first of- September; and but three weeks of the ap- poinlted time -remained. -'During i my convalescence, I had seen Agn'es frequently; and it head been atr :ranged' between us that the marriage should take place upon the, anniversary of our engagement. It -whas -theosuggestio aVnd advice of the doctor, that:I   OAKmIDGE.         237 should take a sea-voyage; to which proposition, as you will readily believe, I gave a willing assent; and I determined to. spend a year, or more; if necessary, in Europe,- in the- endeavor to.'aspertain th'e facts in relation to my father's birth and. family. The only clew I had was the knowledge that he had been a member of parliament, and held; other offices, of trust in England; but, knowing the date of -his arrival in America, I hoped to be able, by patient investigation, to ascertain what member :of .parliament., had; about that time migrated to the New World, by following up the history of contemporary members who had  sat in the house with him., If. among tthem I could- hit upon the name of one who had suiiddenly dropped out of the, social. and political world,- and. gone, no one knew whither, it would amount to an almost moral certainty that my father was he. Should:.I find more- than one, I would-.investigate -the antece' dents of each. I said nothing of my purpose to Creamore or any one -else.: The trial of Delaney, which, had been postponed, for various reasons, from time to time, was set for; the first Monday in September. He had retained as , his counsel, soon after.':his incarceration, a young man by the name of Dent, who had ,settled, in Wawenock about two years before, but who, had hitherto been known only as an industrious. student,. poring early and late over the few law-books Fleta, Bracton, Blackstone,- and Coke - thatconstituted -.his library, never mingling in the social life of the town, and seemingly. indifferent to the smiles or frowns of.   288        OAKRIDGE. Fortune.- He had been allowed to see Delaney as often as -he saw -fit to visit him, -and -had been closeted with him in his cell, for hours at a time, every day, for the week preceding the trial.  Mr. Dent was, perhaps, thirty years old; - a little above the medium height, slim and angular, with a face as smooth and beardless as -that- of a child ; his hair black and straight; and of the- same length in front and behind. --His limbs were slight and reed- like, and his hands long and bony, and a almost trans- Irent; but he had a forehead high; and commanding, ifad the eyes beneath it were black and piercing, and tloke of intellectual strength; and there was that about his- touta ensemble -which impressed one with a/ consciousness that he was no ordinary man. He invariably dressed- in black, and was scrupulously neat about his person. -Such was the man upon w-hose ingenuity and ability depended the fate of Delaney. F The day of the trial had come. The court-room was crowded to repletion . -Every one in the. town. and its? nvicinity had heard -of the case; and the interest felt in the result of the trial was very great. -No 0one doubted the guilt of the prisoner; but:; all were anxious to hear the evidence, and to learn the details of "the abduction, and of. the subsequent dis- covery :and capture ofI Delaney, of which thegeneral public knew little, if any thing..   : : The Stte ates ittorney was one of the leading law! - yers-at the a Lincdln-county :-bar, . which .Ltheon :-ui n- bered: among its.-tnmbers somea of the ablest legal ber       .       - AW'ot'le   OAKRIDGE.         239 minds in the country.  He was a man past the meridian of life, of large and commanding frame, and had held for many years the important position of prosecuting officer. If he failed, in any respect, in the discharge of his duties, it -was certainly not in recognizing: too fully the: legal presumption of the innocence of the 'accused -till proved to be guilty. The fact that the grand :inquest of the :body of the county had found a true bill against a person was, to his mind, more than primdfacie evidence of guilt; and no lawyer in a civil cause ever showed more pertinacity in: striving to gain his client's- case, Qor pursued it with greater' determination to win, than , was' evinced: on the part of the State's attorney in the prosecution of the criminal cases which he was called upon to try. My guardian- and Judge Rad- cliffe had volunteered -any aid in their- power to render, and, at the attorney's request, were present to assist him in the trial. They did not, of course, particiate actively, as it was not considered proper that-the prosecuting officer should have other counsel associated with him. But, when the case was called, they seated themselves at his- side.; and -freqent. consultations took place between them during the  Course of the trial.:  Delaney'entered the court-room in charge :of :the sheriffand a deputy;, Mr. Dent accompanying-them. In those days the criminal court was provided wi'th what was called a "prisoner's box," in:which the prisoner was confined whiler the trial was; progress- Ting. This was. movable; and, at the outset,:.Mr. In' .hi      ovb   240:       .OAKRitDGE. Dent requested that it might be placed inside the bar, near the table which he was to occupy, in order that he might- consult with his client while conducting his defence.- The presiding: judge, un- like the attorney, believed in the principle, that it were better that ninety and nine guilty persons should escape than that one innocent should suffer, and at once granted the request. The, confinement to which Delaney had been sub- jected had given a pallor to his countenance; but, with that exception, there was little to indicate that he had suffered in mind or body. He was a finely- moulded man; and there was a dignity about him that could -not fail to impress the beholder favorably. I think, as he moved up the aisle, that with me pity was the prevailing sentiment; and it was evident, before he- had taken his seat in the "-box," that a feeling of- sympathy was general among the spec- tators. It seemed impossible that the noble-looking maen before them could be guilty of the crimes -laid to his charge. A jury was- empanelled, not without difficulty, as. the large majority of those called had already formed an opinion, or were otherwise disqualified -to sits a;s jurors. In several instances the prisoner's attorney exercised his right of peremptory-challenge; and many were challenged for cause: but finally, after nearly a day's delay, the panel was filled, andu the trial commenced. The indictment was read by the clerk;, and in answer to the usual. question, "Hugh Delaney, what   OAKRrDGE.         241- say you to this indictment, are you guilty thereof, or not guilty?"Delaney answered, - "I am guilty of no wrong." "Let a plea of Nso    GULMTY be entered, Mr. Clerk," said the judge; and it was entered accord- ingly.    - It is not my purpose to give- a detailed account of this trial, interesting as it was; but :it is necessary that enough be narrated to give you some insight into the theory of the defence, -and the manner 'in, which it was presented. The witnesses on the part of the Government were Sir, Edward Leroyd, who testified to the fact of Agnes's disappearance, and to- such other circumstances within his knowledge as were properly:admissible in evidence, including his previous knowledge of Delaney and his movements; Annie Williams, who gave a full account of the affair from her first meeting with Delaney till his cap- ture, detailing minutely all the- facts and circum- stances connected with the abduction and the con- 'sequent confinement of Agnes in the cave; Dr. Creamore, who testified. to the facts connected with the rescue; myself, to the same purport;' the: Sheriff and, his deputies, who had taken part -in the capture of Delaney; and- the boy Wgar, as to what he had seen and heard at the interview between Oglesby and the prisoner. The cross-questioning of each of these witnesses, on the part of the defence, was long and exhaustive. It was evidently the purpose of Mr. Dent, that not the minutest circumstance connectedwith the affair 21   242        OAKRID E, should fail of being brought out in evidence; and, whien' the Government rested its icase, the jury were as familiar with the facts, including all that had occurred in Newport, as though they had been eye- witnesses and ear-witnesses of all that had 'been done - or said. This method of conducting the defence was at first attributed by the older lawyers to want of tact on the part of the prisoner's counsel; but they couild not fail' to see how ably the cross-examination was conducted; and,'before resting the case, the State's attorney had- had several consultations with my guardian and Judge Radcliffe, endeavoring to fathom the meaning of Dent's, to hiin, singular course; but it was beyond their depth. You will notice that Agnes had not been called as a witness. 'Shehad expressed such an aversion to entering the crowded court-room, and making, as it were, a spectacle of herself, that it was concluded, in deference to her sensitiveness, to try the case ?without her testimony; the Government believing- itself strong enough with the witnesses already mentioned. : But, when 'the State's attorney had an- nounced that the case for the State was closed, Mr. Dent arose, and asked if it was not the intention of the Government to place Miss Leroyd on the stand, and, being answered in the negative, said, - "I beg to assure the Court that it is with extreme reluctance that I make the motion which I am about to make, and which nothing but a profound sense of my duty to my client, and an honest belief that the cause of justice demands it, would induce me to -,Of j e demand   OAKRIDGE.        243 make, at this time, understanding, as I think I do, the; praiseworthy motives which actuate my learned brother in thus declining to produce the principal witness for the State. Whatever may be my per- sonal wishes in this regard, and. however much I would like to spare the feelings of Miss Leroyd, I have no choice in the matter. Feeling must give way to duty. I ask of the Court that a subpoena issue, commanding Agnes Leroyd to appear forth- with at the bar of this Court to testify what she knows relating to the issue now on trial between the State and the prisoner." Nothing had occurred during the course of the trial which produced so profound a sensation as this motion and the remarks that accompanied it. The court-room became stilled at once. Every one bent forward to hear what was to follow. The attorney for the State arose to resist the motioi. "You can resume your seat, Mr. Attorney," said the judge. "The motion is a proper one, and is granted." "What can he be driving at?  I heard Judge Radcliffe ask of my guardian. "He confounds me," was the answer; " and I con- fess that I am afraid of him. Did you notice how shrewdly he has set himself right before the jury, justifying himself for doing what he praises the State's attorney for not doing? That brain of his is working out some problem; and it is evident that he expects the-testimony of Miss Leroyd to aid him in solving it. The case is becoming more and more'   interesting; but what possible defence he can set up is beyond my ken." ' Perhaps he wants to show Agnes to' the jury, and plead her beauty in justification of Delaney's course. I can, think of no other reason for calling her," answered the judge. The subpoena was issued by the clerk, and handed to- the -sheriff for service. -.The manner in which the prisoners counsel had conducted the case hitherto, and especially the matter of the motion, had. made him; as: it were, the central figure in, the group. "All eyes were bent upon him-; and, when he rose to open the case for the defence, the stillness in the room was profound.   He spoke as follows:-   - "' MAY IT PLEASE THE COURT,-I might well tremble; GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY, for the fate of my client, seeing the array of distinguished counsel whom the State's attorney has gathered about him to aid in the prosecution of this case by their presence and suggestions, if not by their active participa- tion in the trial, were it iot that it is foreign to my nature to know' fear, or to tremble before any one but the living -God. But. I feel .that I should fail of "doing my whole duty to my client, to Ithe Court, to you, gentlemen of the ijury, and to the public, did I not here, 'at the outset, of my opening argument, enter my solemn protest, as I have once before done in the course of this trial, against what -to my mnId, makes of the prosecution little less than a persecution, since it takes awaay from my client one of the-safeguards whic'h not only wise legis- iation, but universal custom, has established; namely, that very man, however humble, of whatever crime accused, shall be tried under the law, by the law, and fly the officers of the law, appointed -by the- chief authority of the State to enorce the hlaw. Not that I hear, in e ris base, any: thing or arll that m:y   (AKERIDGE.     .      245 learned'brother'-or his learned co-adjutors can do; but It:do- feel most keenly the responsibility that rests upon me, -who alone represent the prisoner at the bar; and the interest I feel in the result of this trial is .only less -than Ithat, felt;, by my 1un- happy client, of whose innocence I have not-a doubts and whom I    pity from the bottom of my heart. Does it surprise, you, gentlemen, after the evidence on the part of the/ State, to which you have listened so patiently, that .I make this asser- tion? Believe me, they are words of truth. and soberness-; and if, hereafter, i commenting on the testimony that I shall offer i: defence, I fail t bring your minds to- view the- acts of my client in the light in which I view them, it will be because my mouth-cannot utter the feelings of my heat. I shall not at- tempt to rebut the testimony of the government witnesses-i so far as the abduction, as it is called, or the manner of it, is con- -cerned, nor seek. to disprove -the, fact .of the. confinementu of Miss Leroyd in the' cave,- or the desire and design of the pris- oner to' carry his captive to Europe.' On the contrary, 'we admit all this, and acknowledge that it was through the agency of the prisoner at',the bar that the abduction was brought about.  No, gentlemen of the jury, the defence of. my un- happy client rests not on the denial of the truth, but on- the assertion of it; not upon legal technicalities ard 'quibbles, but upon- the eternal foundations of truth and' justice, and the soundest pr'iciples of the law. I b elieve firmly in the maxim, magna est veritas et prevalebit; and, knowing the truth, I say confidently, gentlemen,that I am prepared to prove tothe satisfaction!of yourselves, of the Court, and' of my learned brothers, who are doing more than their duty by the, State- so ably, that Hugh Delaney, the prisoner at- the bar, is innocent in the .eye of the law, .and must' be acquitted at your hands. Fortunate it is .for my client that he is. rich in this world's goods {'for it has enabled me to prepare his case in Atccordance with what my judgment, not mynlimited experience, has dic- tated; ani I hae felt io diffidence, gentlemen, in expendin g, o:ut:of his ample means, lar'ge sums; of money, that:I: migHt properly present before ybvuwhat I believe to constitute a per- 21*.    248      .    OAKRIDG1O fect defence to the charges contained in this indictment. That his acts, unless explained and justified, merit the severest penalty of the law which he is charged with violating, I do not deny; nor should I have the temerity to ask a verdict of ac- quittal at your hands, were I not confident that the witnesses who will testify in his behalf will furnish the explanation and justification to which I have alluded. "And now, gentlemen, upon what do I rely as constituting the defence? Simply and only upon the fact, that, upon the subject of Miss Leroyd, the prisoner at the bar was, at the time of the commission of the several acts complained of, had been for many months before, and is now, INSANE, and, for that reason, irresponsible in the eye of the law for acts 'of omission or commission, - a monomaniac to be pitied, not con- demned, and a subject rather for the tender care of a physician than for the harsh and ofttimes brutal treatment of a jailer. Methinks I see already in the countenances of some of you a look akin to sympathy; and sympathy, that bond of 'brother- hood implanted by God in the hearts of all mankind, that fellow-feeling, which, as the poet tells us, makes one wondrous kind, will make you all, I doubt not, not only willing, but earnest and anxious, to justify and deliver my client, if I establish to. your satisfaction the soundness of the theory upon which I rest the defence. And, gentlemen, if it be indeed true that the prisoner is the victim of monomania, whether occasioned by the cause to which I have alluded, or by any other cause, shall' I be travelling out of the case, or saying aught that is improper, if I close this brief opening by leaving with you the suggestion, that, in thus afflicting him, a Power higher .than court or jury, or any earthly tribunal, has suffi- ciently chastised him, and that pity, as well as justice, de- mands that you make no heavier the burden of his woe?" As Mr. D,ent resumed his seats there was a murmur of applause among the audience; and it was evident that his -remarks had   checked, if they had not   OAKRIDGE.        247 changed, the current of public opinion. The presid- ing judge (a resident of WNawenock) seemed also to be deeply impressed with the speech. Every- body waited for the proof. The defence was a novel one, and, if made out, must, of course, result in a verdict of acquittal. But what witnesses could the prisoner produce to substantiate it? He had caused Miss Leroyd to be subpoenaed; but it could not be that he was relying solely upon her testimony to make out his case.. The doubt was soon removed. , The witnesses for the defence will come forward, and be sworn," said the clerk, in conformity to a suggestion of Mr. Dent. The first to respond to the summons was an elderly gentleman of commanding form and dignified aspect. He was followed by four other persons, three males and a female; and behind them -came Capt. Oglesby and another female, whose distin- guished appearance at once attracted the attention of the entire court-room. When the oath had been severally administered to them, the State's attorney arose, and, addressing the. Court, requested an order that the witnesses might be sequestered, that the examination of each might take place out of hearing of the others. "Certainly, if you desire it, Mr. Attorney," said the judge ;' and it was ordered accordingly. , A smile, half contemptuous, half amused, passed over the pale face of the young advocate as this request was made.. It. was evidently a matter of indifference to him; but I regretted that the State's   248        :OAKRIDGEI attorney had thought it his :duty --to make/ it. It seemed- to me that -he was thereby prejudicing, rather -than benefiting, the case; but- I was not a lawyer, and must not go beyond my last. Ne sutor ultra vrepidam.- The first-witness called:was the uncle of the pris- oner, Sir Hugh Delaney,-- after whom he had been named,- nd in-- whose house -the early years of his life had been passed. Summoned by-lent, hehad come from Dublin to-be present and testify at the trial- of his nephew. ' His evidence was lengthy, both in the direct and cross examination, and proved con- clusively, that, from his early boyhood, the -prisoner at the bar -had - been subject to monomania, which chiefly showed itself in, the pertinacity and reekless- ness with? which he would, pursue any object or aim upon which -his mind had become fixed, no matter how : absurd -the pursuit, or -impossible the accom-' plishmeni t might be. In the course, -of his exaamina-, tion, he gave -several instances of this peculiarity, one of the most:strikng bing, being that, when a boy of nine or ten years of age, he ,disappealed for more than -a week, and was finally discovered, in: a bhalf-:: stlarved condition, nearly a hundred miles-from home', whither -he had wandered in pursuit of a beautiful bird th at hbad flownv by him in that 'direetioni,:and " which he was :determined to capture, believingj as he' said, thati it woild comeaat his ,all;: if her could tonly catch. sightof it again. -He: grieved bitterly when forbced to return, and for weeks had- to be: carefully watched to prevent his going-again m pursuit : ::    OAKRIDGE.         249 Another instance occurred while he was-a student at the medical college in Dulblin, when he conceived the idea that it was pre-ordained, for the benefit of medical science, that he should anatomize the daugh- ter of a neighbor, a young-lady remarkable for the beauty of her form and features; and, he had actually, win the presence of the witness, once seriously pro- posed to the girl to commit suicide, that she might become immortal through the agency of his scalpel. It was many months before his mind was rid of this monstrous fancy; and, strange to say, the young,lady afterwards became his wife.  i . Of the other male witnesses, two had been intimate friends of Delaney, and constant visitors at his house -in Newport, prior to the death of his wife; and one was his room-mate at the medical college.  The female who accompanied them was the sister of the prisoner, who had presided over his lNewport estab- lishment: 'since he became a widower. The distin- guished-looking lady before spoken of, whom Capt. Oglesby escorted,.was Delaney's step-mother, the second wife, and now the widow, of his father, who had died some years before, I will not: detail the testimony of all or any of these witnesses. Each of them -had-one or more instances within his or her. knowledge, tending to. show that Delaney had long  been the victim of monomania, now on one subject, now on some other, and that, from his early youth, there- had hardly been a- time when he was not more or less under the influence of this. peculiar malady, His sister testified to the fact of his having shut nlim- !"A .    520        OAKRIDGE. self up for a period of ten years after the death of his wife. He would sit, she said, during all the day- time, in the same place in his chamber, with his eyes fixed on the open; door, through which he expected to see the spirit: of his dead wife come. She denied the trutht of the reports, that he was a man of violent passions and vindictive temper, and passed his: time, during those years, in pouring out male- dictions and curses; and said that he was ever the gentlest and kindest of men, even when his mania was at the worst.  However insane he might be on the particular subject that was troubling him, he was, in every other respect, himself; -and -no sister ever had a more considerate or better brother. Capt. Oglesby testified to some strange freaks of Delaney on shipboard, and, among them, that, day after day, he-would sit for hours on the bowsprit of "The Lapwing," believing that, by, the exercise of his will, he could-call Father Neptune from the deep. He gave as a reason for summoning-the sea-god, that he would like to assure himself of the whereabouts of "The Galatea." The testimony of the step-mother was, perhaps, the most important of all. She not only recollected very. many instances of Delaney's mental hallucinations, but she also: testified to the, fact that his father was subject to a like infirmity; thus showing the malady to be hereditary.  - There remained but- one more witness to- be exam- -ined for the defence; and that one was Agnes Leroyd. -She had been in- attendance from, day-to day as the- defence proceeded; the presence of the   -OABIDE.         .251 :othpr ladies removing, in a measure, her scruples; and as they were' intelligent -and refined, and-but justA -before from the-land of her birth, Agnes was rather pleased than otherwise to be with them.- ;: "Mr- Officer, bring into couArt the witness Agnes Leroyd," said- Dent;- and a minute afterwards- she entered, and seated herself in the witness-box., She -,became at once the cynosure of, all eyes:. I -think I had never seen her look more beautiful., She was dressed plainly, but in- perfect. taste. . The :ringlets of "her golden hair were -gathered- together. behind, and fell gracefully over the comb. A small round :hat of ,black velvet,' with a broad- silver bandeau, and a silver tassel on the top, covered hler-; head6. The ex- citement had:given a flush to her cheeks that height- ened - her - beauty; and a^ suppressed - murmur :of admiration went through then room as she rose to take -the ath to " testify the    truth, the whole truth, -and nothing but the truth.'" . .  :   -; During the ten days: that the trial had. been-in prog- ress, Delaney: had maintained an unbroken silence, save:1when he whispered replies, from- ti-me, E0 to iiie, to queries of his counsel; :but now:, seeing-/before; him 'the-beautiful-girl for -whom he :had- risked--so miuch, he leaned forward- from the!"box,"- and,.wifth:::ouit- stretched Mhands, said -ina toue of voice, ithat? thrilled his hearers, "O .Agnes;!' anti-oipate yowu r f ate, :nd -end thbis: -weay 1 rtrial .-by coPnsenting: to be: :ine. Heaven wills it. Why d o you seek; to thwart sits pur- v:poses       -g.:.iome, lettus go:!'" .. : : :,n.? e It: wags with 'difficult that -Mr, Dent coid -jsilene   252        OARmIDGE. him; but after a while he seemed to realize the situ- ation, and, burying his head in his hands, remained quiet. But the episode was not without its effect. Had it been planned, its would have been a master- piece of strategy. Many of the spectators, some of the jury even, were moved to tears. The case for the defence was from that moment won. The testimony of Agnes was very brief. Mr. Dent examined her only as to the opinion which she had formed of Delaney, in view of all that he had done and said since she first met him in Newport. She was too truthftil to measures her words, and calculate the effect of them; and in answer to the question, "If you have formed an opinion, Miss Leroyd, of the' prisoner's mental condition from your obser- vation and experience, in view of his persistent pursuit of you for the past two years, please state to the jury what it is: is the prisoner at the bar, in your :opinion, sane or insane on that subject?" She said only, "I believe him to be a monomaniac on that subject." And with this answer, the Govern- ment not desiring ,to cross-examine her, Mr. Dent announced to the Court that the testimony for the defence was" closed. The iState's attorney also an- nounced that he had no further evidence to offer. "Go to thejury, Brother Dent," said the judge. "The case is of such importance, that I shall not limit counsel as to time in the argument." ' If the Court please," answered Dent, "I have a proposition to make to my learned brother, which, if accepted, will: probably shorten the trial, already of               .   OAKRIDGE.        - 258 such unusual length, by at least a day. I propose that we submit the case to the jury without argu- ment, upon the charge of your Honor as to the law and the facts." This was another stroke of policy, and took the State's attorney completely by surprise. To the Government belonged the closing argument, usually regarded as a great advantage, as the opportunity is afforded of replying to the. points made by the defend- ant's counsel, who is obliged to anticipate what will be said by his opponent, and reply to what he ima- gines the argument will be, if he would weaken or destroy the effect of it. A consultation took place between the three law- yers. Judge Radcliffe and my guardian were in favor of assenting to the proposition; but the State's attorney, who was unwilling to lose the advantage of the reply, announced to the Court that it could not be entertained. "It is not for me to advise counsel," said the judge. "Proceed with your argument, Mr. Dent." The young lawyer, who had thus far conducted the case with such signal ability, rose to his feet. Bowing to the Court, he turned to the jury, anid said,-  "Can it be, GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY, after the scene you have just witnessed, and the testimony you have just heard, that duty to my client requires me to occupy more of your time in demonstrating to you what is already so clear to my own mind, --that my unfortunate client, by reason of the malady that afflicts him, is not guilty of the wrongs laid to his charge?" 22    v .         -   :254 -     -   OAKRIDGE. Here, unconsciously no doubt, a number of the jury, -by a negative motion of the head, signified plainly enough -that their minds were already made up.  Mr. Dent did not fail to notice the motion,- and resumed,---  "No, gentlemen, I will not insult your intelligence by argu- ing a proposition which admlits of no doubt. My experience in the c6urts has been so limited, that this is' the first criminal 'trial in which I have ever appeared as counsel; but I cannot for- bear to say, and I mean to cast no reflection on my learned brother'when I say it,: that, were I the prosecuting attorney, I could not reconcile my action to my conscience, if I did not, upon the evidence which has been offered in defence, enter a nolle prosequi on this case. Even if we had n0t proved so con- elusively the hereditary character of my client's malady, and the friequency with which in years past, in fact since his 'early boyhood,' it has afflicted him, I might then have asked you, with a degree of confidence, for a verdict of acquittal; for we al-k know, gentlemen, from observation, if not from- experience, -that there is no passion which:so inflames the mind as that of ,love, the power of which, the poet tells us, - ' In earth and seas and air and heaven above , Rules unresisted.' Omnia 'inct amor'et nos cedamus amori: love conquers all, and we-must yield to love.  - Uiifrtiunate "has it been for my client that' he ever met 'Miss Leroyd;- but:having met her as he did, hee impersonation, as, you yourselves,.have seen, of female; loveliness and'virtue, can you wonder, loving her as he did,ithat, rejected in-his suit, he should have become wild in his infatuation, and done, many things of which, if sane, he would never have thought?, It may be that some of you caini: recall instances where men have be- come: misanthropes, .or .mad, or: have sought teir'ei:f -fomn the Wpao oaf ,requited : love. in' the-:grave aof a suicide, an-d tlihX   OAKRID(GE.          '255 where there -was no predisposition to monomania on that or any other subject; but when, as in the case at bar, there exists such predisposition, dare you say upon your oaths, that a legal re- sponsibility rests upon the victim of such a passion urged on by such a mania? No, gentlemen; you must not   not, yo u will not, so decide. The law and your consciences will niot per- mit it. And thanking you each and all for- the- patient atten- tion you have given to the case, and satisfied that I. have at least tried to do my whole duty to my client, I leave the case, so far as the defence is concerned, in your hands, confident that you will render a verdict which will be satisfactory to your- selves, satisfactory to the community, and satisfactory to the defendant at- the bar. " The State's attorney followed in an-argument as remarkable for -its- length as was that of Mr.- Dent for its brevityi He closed by saying, that, if such: a plea as that put forward by his young brother was to constitute a defence, there would be no criminal who could not escape.  The jury must close their ears to such appeals, and, remembering the solemn oath that they had taken, do their duty, uninfluenced by feel- ings of sympathy, or by the sophistries of counsel. The" charge of the judge, which was very brief, :leaned strongly to theprissoner's side. In' iall cases, even those that admitted of no doubt of the guilt of the accused, justice ,should be. tempered with, mercy, he said.  And though, from the evidence in the case, :the jury musti believe tlit the prisoner at. the lbar. had-committed 'the acts 6with which he was charged, it was proper for them to take into consideration- al ,le extenuating circumstaaces brought out; in, de:- fence; and, if they raised a reasonable doubt in thei;r   256        .OAKRIDGE. minds as to 'his-:legal responsibility for his acts, he 'was entitled to the benefit of the doubt, and should be found not guilty. The law is a shield as well as a sword; and, presuming every man to. be innocent, till proved to be guilty, it throws- around the accused the aegis ofits protection,-- a sure safeguard, except in :the hands of the. guilty. The case had been most ably tried both by the State's attorney and by the counsel for the defence, and the jury would now re- tireto. their room,- and agree upon a verdict. And though it would not be proper for him to say,in the language of the prisoner's attorney, that that verdict would no: doubt be satisfactory to themselves, satis- factory to the community, and-satisfactory to the defendant at the bar, he felt assured that they would endeavor so to decide, that no doubts would here- after arise in their own- minds -as to- their having done their whole duty by the State and by the prisoners      . , , The jury retired under charge of an officer. An hour later they returned into court, and in-, answer to ,the-question, ." Gentleman of the, jury, have you agreed upon a verdict?" replied, through their fore- man,- that they, had. / ;: 'What say ,you, gentlemen, - is the prisoner at the bar guilty, or not, guilty?" , , ' NOT GUILTY," answered the- foreman,  The, jury was. polled; and each; for himself an- swered, ' Nqotguilty.":' .  " I move the discharge. of the prisoner," said his - o unsel , . : , .... ., .  . ; ' . ,. . . .   OAlRIDGE.          257 "Not quite- so fast, Brother Dent," said the State's attorney. "There is still another indictment against the prisoner, as you ought to know." "It is true. I had forgotten it," was the answer. "If the Court please, we demand to proceed at once with the trial of the other indictment, unless the State's attorney will enter a nolle prosequi. It will be the same thing over again." - "Is not that, the better way to dispose of it, Mr. Attorney?" asked the judge. - "By no means, your Honor.-   I shall be more careful in the selection of 'the jury the next time;r and, if possible, get men whose judgments cannot be warped by sympathy," was the reply. "--It -will be impossible for me to try the case at this term," said the judge, 4"as my duties require me to be elsewhere for the next two weeks; and, unless the State's attorney can give me a-better reason for not entering the nolle prosequi than the one he- has just given, the Court, under- the circumstances, will :order the entry to be made." -  - 'As your Honor -will return to town in- two weeks, H would suggest that the Court :adjourn for that time," answered the attorney; anid in the mean while I will either -decide ;to abandon: the prosecution of the case, or give your Honor satisfactory reasons for asking a-trial"  -:' Very well," said the- judge'; and, -the, prisoner having been remanded, the 'court was --adjourned accordingly.  22* '   . . fi    :    ,   -   /  CHAPTER XXTI '"Tis pleasantthrough the loopholes of retreat To peep at-such a world; to see the stir Of the great Babel, and not feel the crowd." COWPER. THE trial of Delaney was terminated on the 16th of September, just a week before the time appointed for the marriage of Agnes and myself. At a consul- tation which took place immediately after the ad- journment of the court, Judge Radcliffe and my guardian were so decided in their opinion that the verdict, under the evidence, was a just one, that the State's attorney finally consented that a nolle prose- qui should be entered in the other case upon the re-assembling of the court; but the judge was to be asked to order the prisoner into the keeping of th6 superintendent of the asylum for the insane, until he should be pronounced urd of his malady. In the mean time the preparations for the wedding were being. made; and it was a source of relief both to Agnes and myself, that, in any event, we should be at least a week on our way to Europe, bef6or De- laney would be free to -follow us. The -trial had eventuated contrary to the expectations of all of us; but I confess to a feeling of satisfaction at the result. Prcemonitus, prcemunitus (forewarned, fore-armed), 258   /' OAKRTDGE.        259 I felt that in future Delaney would be powerless for harm. Agnes had not my confidence; but she no longer hated or despised the man: she pitied while she feared him. Her last interview with him in the cave, followed as it was by the death of Manfred, had wrought this change in her feelings.  During the few weeks next preceding. the trial, I had met Inez Radcliffe frequently. 'The year that had passed had added to her beauty.. Agnes, to whom jealousy was as foreign as falsehood, often spoke of her as the most magnificently beautiful person she had ever met; and on one occasion she- had said to me playfully, "I feai I have to thank my hair and my eyes for your allegiance, Henry. Were Inez a blonde, I should tremble for your fealty." The evening last but one before the day appointed for our wedding, Agnes and myself, accompanied by your father, called at Judge Radcliffe's house. We found there, as was usual, quite a number of the young people of the village of both sexes; and the judge pro- posed, as it was the last evening that we, should be together, for a year at least, that we make it a long and a joyous one. The services of the blind fiddler were called into requisition; and it was well into " the wee sma' hours " before the social gathering dissolved. Your father and Alice were to officiate as groomsman and bridesmaid; and the latter and Agaes were much together during the .evening. :I had danced twice with Inez. Between the two dances, we had left the drawing-room, and gone together upon the piazza "*     I    2i60       bA9IPDG. in frohnt of- the house. Naturally the coniversation turned upon the marriage of Agnes and myself, so soon to take-place. In the course of it Inez, drop- ping my arm, paused in her walk, and said to me, "Are you sure, Oakridge, that you love Miss Leroyd with a depth of love that time cannot change? Pardon me for asking the question, since it implies a doubt; -but it has seemed to me, of late. that you are not altpgether happy. If I am right, will you not tell me' what has occurred to trouble you?" I confessed to her, in- reply, that I was not alto- gether happy; but I attributed it to the foolish course that  haad pursued, the unexpected result of the -trial of Delaney, and the anxiety that I felt to be -away from scenes which had occasioned so much of sorrow to both of us, and ended by asking (I ]hardly know why) whether she was herself "alto- gether happy.' ," My happiness consists in seeing you happy, Oakridge," she replied; "When you are miserable, I am miserable. You little know what I suffered during the months that you acted so strangely. I would have gone -to you, had I dared: as it -was, I:could only suffer and wait, sending to you in my stead a faithful oldI nurse, who, while she cared for you, took care,: also, that I should have tidings daily of how you were getting along. I feared that your illness had sprung -from unhappiness and dis- content. Tell me- that it was- not so." "'If you mean' that H .was unhappy or discon- 'tented onh account of any: thing doiiected bwgith   OAKRiDGE.         261 Agnes, you are altogether wrong, Inez.  My love for her has known and , can know no'. change," I an- swered. "I am so glad to know it, -Oakridge!" she said. "It' lifts a weight, that has oppressed me. She is worthy of all the love 'you can give her, and will make us both happy, if you are true to yourself 'and to her." We returned to the drawing-room, and took our places in the set that was forming. It was the last dance of the evening. Opposite us was your father and Alice. Agnes was Dr. Creamore's partner. I had danced with her but once. The next day but one, we were married.- It was a quiet morning wedding; and only the more intimate friends of the family were present. Mr. Cartelon had detained one of his ships that was about sailing for Liverpool, that we might take passage in her.- The wind was favorable; and we walked to the dock ac- c'ompanied by the whole party. The vessel was gayly decked with bunting, the sails set, and every thing ready for departure. Aswe went on board, a chorus of young girls greeted us with a song of farewell, the words and' music of which, I learned long after- wards, were composed, and arranged for the occasion 'by Inez Radcliffe. I remember but' one verse of the song. - It was as follows: - Could wishes bring to thee, sweet wife, The joys-for which we earnest pray, How glad the song that hymns thy life, How sweet the .flowers along thy wayl '\            , '   262-       - OARIDGIME. ,The name of the ship in which we sailed was "The Paragon.' There was but one passenger besides ourselves,-a young gentleman about my own age, who had come on board the day before, and was returning, as he said, to his native country, France. . Though the principal reason for my concluding to make a journey to Europe had been, and still was, my anxiety to- ascertain the truth in relation to my ancestry, I determined, on Agnes's account, that the first six months of our stay should be given to- sight- seeing, and the pleasure, which, if the mind be freed from cares, always attends the consciousness that we are for the time, as it were, identifying ourselves with the scenes and events of -the long-ago. Years before, it had been a- dream of my boyhood that I: should one day visit the places in the Old World made memorable by the great events of the ages, and stand" amid the mighty works of mighty men,- reading the history of -their lives in the magnificent: monuments they had reared, and which time had been powerless to destroy. Egypt with its Pyra-: mrids; Rome with its historic ruins, its treasures of  art, and its' thousands of hallowed associations; Athens with its memories; Venice, Queen City of the Sea, with its palaces and its gondolas, its Bridge of Sighs and its Rialto, its black-eyed maidens and, gay cavaliers,-- how I had longed to cross their thresholds, and to stand within their courts I But now how changed the prospect! For Agnes's sake I- Would look upon all these, but, until my mission   (  OAKRIDGE.        263, was accomplished, without the desire, or the power, to enjoy the sight as I had once thought to do. The; ocean-voyage was barren of incident. The inevitable sea-sickness, an iceberg now and then, an. occasional school of porpoises, the daily taking of the sun, and the forty days of sea-life, were ended. For those days, we, had made the passage quickly; and on the 2d of November, 1792, I stood once more on terra firma, and, for the first time, trod the land of my ancestors, the birthplace of those, the mystery of whose 'early life I had come abroad t6 unraveL   The route of travel that--we had deter- mined on led us first from Liverpool to the city of Chester, where every thing speaks, of antiquity; from  thence we passed into Wales, and thence into Ireland and Scotland, and by the way of York with its glorious minster, to London, the metropolis of the world. Winter was now fast approaching; and, after a week given   to London, we crossed  to Antwerp, and from  there made , the grand tour of the Continent." Holy Week found us at Rome. We had attended the services at St. Peter's day by day ; and on Good Friday were there again to hear the Miserere. It was the 30th of March, 1793. The crowd was very great; and we were glad to leave the Sistine Chapel, and return to the church. After the entry of the- pope, whom  I then saw for the first time on foot, the, holy relics " - consisting of the handkerchief of St. Veronica, with the impress of our Saviour's face upon it, a piece of the cross upon which he was crucified, and the head of the spear   264      --. OAKRIDGE. which pierced his side - were exhibited to the peo- ple from the balcony of St. Veronica, over the- en- trance to, the crypt. Agnes had expressed a curiosity to see these "relics,"' which are held in such high reverence by Roman Catholics everywhere ; and we had gone well to the front of the-nave, near the high altar, that a good view of them  might be obtained.  While standing there, I was startled by a faint cry from Agnes, who was leaning on my arm, and, turning towards her, saw again upon her face the same ex- pression that I had first observed in the grounds at Oakridge twenty months before. "What troubles you, darling?"I said to her. "Hugh- Delaney is here," she answered: "I can feel him all about me. Come! Let us go!" We made our way out of the crowd as best we could. My wife was trembling like a frightened bird. Our carriage, fortunately, had been among the first to arrive, and -was stationed only a little way distant. We entered it at once, and were driven rapidly to our inn. Had any doubts existed in my mind as to the correctness of Agnes's convictions that Delaney was in Rome, a letter from your father, which had arrived during our brief absence from the house, would have dispelled them- all. Agnes, to whom it was addressed, was too much agitated to read it herself, and requested me to do so. It was as fol- lows:    OAKRIDGE.      -265 WAWENOcK. Jan. 1, 1793. MY DEAR- SISTER '--Our honored father's letters, which have been so much more frequent than mine, have kept you advised of every thing-happening on this side of the Atlantic in which you would be likely to take an interest, so far as has come to his knowledge; but I know that you are longing to hear, more than of any thing else, how I speed with my wooing, -a subject of which, for several reasons, the most important :being that I hardly knew myself, I have, until quite recently, kept Sir Edward in ignorance. I believe that you more than suspected, before you went away, that I was a devotee at the shrine of the blind little god; and as your last letter takes it for granted, and puts the question plump, I must needs answer it, "willy nilly," as the schoolboys say. I will therefore try and imagine that you are sitting beside me, - would- that it were really so! -and have just demanded of "me what are the rela- tions, as atpresent existing, between Miss Alice Radcliffe and Mr. James Leroyd. My answer, under such circumstances, would be something of this sort,!"As intimate as they can be without being more so."  Should your woman's curiosity refuse to be satisfied, and press me further on the subject, I might add, "If Alice is one-half so happy as I am  in view of' those rela- tions, she is, at this very moment, one of the happiest girls in America. "If still importunate, I might go further, and say, "I am delighted that you have returned at last, my dear sister; for we have only been waiting for that." And if, putting these three answers together, you could not arrive at a correct conclusion as to the true state of affairs, I would thereafter maintamn a silence more profound than Horus, the son of Osiris, ever en- joined  Upon his worshippers, as infrangible as that of the Egyp- tian Sphinx, fold my  arms, and leave you to seek information elsewhere. .But, jesting apart, I think I hear you say, " A Happy New Year, and God bless you both, my brother!"  and I know that you have guessed my   riddle. Yes, ma sceur, Alice and I  are what they call, in the sunny clime' where -this will reach you,  , i promessi sposi," and I am very happy. Dear girl! in the sunshine of her presence, all clouds are dissipated. I 28   i  266.  .     CAROARAIDGE. know*- and care to know, : feel and care to feel, -only that I:love arid anm beloved ;-and, in the knowledge and the- feeling, my heart, finds -a joythat passeth understanding.' We -speak very often of you, whom-we both love so-dearly;, and, in the:same breath, of Oakridge, also so near and, so--dear to us; and, evei- ing aftereveniing, we trace your wanderings on the map, and wonder where you are, and what- you are doing,: and when: you will return. to us. 'u Father is" very much pleased -with;-our engagement,;, andi Alice will certainly usurp your -place in his affections, if, you "do liot hurry home, and prevent the catas. trophe. To-day, for the first time, he addressed hher as ",-My daughter;' to-morrow, perhaps, it will be, "My dear daughter;" and the next day, --ce n'est pas impossible,- he will give her your pet name, "Birdie." Write and scold him, if you can have- the heart to -do - it ; but mind!: if!you do, somebody I wot of will lose the most affectionate brother that ever sister had.  :But youwwill want- to know how all this -came about--this gettinig betrothed, I mean:-- so suddenly' and withbout any one, :as far as I knew, but your own dear self, dreaming of such a thing.? Let me tell you iln that chatty way in Which we used to delight. You know what a witch Alice is. I believed (bless hers hteart!) that she couilddance on cobwebs witholit disturbing the 'tissUe, Soilight and faiy-4like -she -seemed '; and all along;- untillaiweek -'a@go, lboked upon -het as a kind Of 'angel-elf, too pipurei :too delicate, tooje' ne -sis quoi;: for me 'to approach as a suitor,:. especially when' redolent -of a'shipyard, the-farthest re; move from fairyland that 'I can imagine. I know "now-that A'li'ie -Whb, by the way, ddont -think. herself a bit of a fairy-- -ha 1M6:red me, as miuch- as she dared in -her uncertainty to doefor qeite little time baC ck; buti she would have let concealmett, like '  zdo'zen worms in -the:.bud, feed on i '-her damask- cheek, before heWd*uld thve toldl:her love, evlen:to her sister; .and I Should have: been : foblish: enribugh to -?hae kept---on.' sihing,- maing:a^ monumentof - myself 'for- a greland yellow mela - chiilyto sit o6n, if it had not been for -Inez", the magriifice-nt, "as -Oakridghe a;lls hewr,coming ito i-ou-,rdief. -It is just a-weekago , - f-dby' tihatt:he diditt ;: :a nd it'a a o'n-this i^se.: -':I had gone to ,iV e,   OAKRIDGE;           267 the house-of Judge Radcliffe to pass the evening of Christmas: day,and found that the judge and his wife were out.' Only Inez and Alice, for a wonder, were in.- The former inquired if news had come from you; and I passed her Oakridge's letter, which; as good- luck would have it, I had received that morn- ing; She took the letter, and said, as she rose, "H will take this to the:jlibraryi and read it there. In the meantime, Leroyd, tell Alice what you are longing to tell her, -and what she is longing to hear, - that you love her,--and would make her your wife. lMy eyes and ears have much deceived me, if my gentle sister says you ' nay.' 'She's beautiful, and therefore to be wooed: She is a ooman, therefore to be won.' And remember," she added with a smile,: "that 'faint heart ne'er: won fair lady. ' . She passed out -of the room. I stole a look at Alice. Her face was covered -with blushes d In a moment I was at her feet. My,heart was no- longer faint; and the oft-told tale was told once more. You know the result; but you can never knowhow ' happy LIam in it. j -Inez returned after a while. It seemed to me that she- had been weeping; but she -smiled, as she- said, "I could not bear to see you two, so far apart when I knew how dearly each loved the :other.  You must forgive me, Alice. Leroyd,. I see, has already done so." -Forgive her -1 I could have fallen down and worshippd :her.                    :: It is more than probable that I  should have made some demonstration of ,gratitude, had not a servant just then an-. nounced ".Mr, Dent," who, I may add, has been, for the past three imonths, a  frequent visitor at the house. Shortly after- wards, the .judge- and, his wife returned,i and challenged ,lne& z and-the lawyer to, a game at whist, leaving-Alice and;.myself it What,-you can imagine, wastnot daisagreeable :companionhip. The:hours flew by -nheeded; but, before I left, I led the blush ing girl to her father, and asked and received his blessing. ' r Jaw. 3.- Two days: hayve. passed, dear Agne, sinee I penned   268          OAKRTinGE. the concluding words of the last paragraph; and eventful ones theyhave been. In the midst of my writing, a message from Inez sumnmoned me to her house. I went immediately, and found her alone in the drawing-room. She appeared nervous and excited for one usually so calm, and entered at -once uponi the subject which had caused her to summon me. , I have just parted from Mr. Dent," she commenced. -"He, has told me strange things; and I have sent for you, that I may communicate so. much as concerns, Mr. Oakridge and your sister. Growing out of what passed between Mr. Dent and myself, I felt it to be my- duty to tell him frankly all about my -past and my present, and did so. He said, in reply, ' You have given me your confidence, Miss Radcliffe: I will, in return, give you mine. In what you have said to me, you have named Mr. Oakridge and his wife as very dear friends of yours. I feel that what has come -to my knowledge respecting Delaney, out- side of; any communication from him, I have a right to impart. Let Mr.- Oakridge be informed at once that you have learned, from a source that admits of no doubt, that Mr. Delaney will soon be discharged, perhaps has even now been discharged, from the- asylum, and will return' at -once to' his own -country, Tell him, too, that he will stop short of-nothing.'else than -the possession of Agnes Leroyd, as -he continues to call her, and may cause him-and his wife infinite, annoyance in a country, where he cannot protect himself from persecution so readily as here..  -  . - "                      'rei Ui pbi receiving this information, I started immediately for the asylum (wti re Delaney had been sent as a lunatic, under the order off 'the eourt;- as. you have already been advised), hoping I mightreach there in time to prevent his discharge; butI! arrived too-late. - He had left the asylum the day -before only; but all myk-fforts-to discover where he had gone were unavailing. I returned here this morning, anid "write at bince thlat you- may be purt einpossesion of the facts;.'; Be y on your guard, I beg ot yoei' [Inez', -a long time- ago,: :ias-you know, constituted; herself- the guardian- angel of Oakridge n d yourself; and she-nw seems to -feel s0o-grateful to Dent for, his- information, that it would -not   OAKRIDGE;          269 surprise. me, if she should, one' ofthese days, be-induced to marry him out of gratitude alone. I long ago concluded that she would never know what it is to love in the only true sense of the term.                 ' Alice sends love to you both,. in which all who know you join heartily, and none more sincerely than our always affectionate brother,  - -'  "    J-AMES LEROTD. After I had finished reading the letter, Agnes said to me,- - - "I knew it was so. Let us leave the city, and at once." She gave no thought to the bright things of her brother's letter. The cloud 6f-Delaney's coming, had obscured all that. It may be that she only heard so much as accorded with her feats. "Let us leave the city, and at once," she repeated after a little while.  I tried to convince her, that though it might:be, and doubtless was, true that Delaney was in- Rome,- still we:had no occasion to fear him.   He was powerless for harm, at least for the three days longer that we had intended to remain in the    city. But nothing that I said had any-influence over her. She listened to me mechanically, and said only, "If you love me, Henry, let us go." Anxious as I had been and was to be about the business that had brought meabroad, I did .ot care tot leave Rome   until' after the Easter ceremonies, to which both Agnes and -myself :had- looked: forward with so:much of pleasant ;anticipation, were: conclud- 28 v   t   270         OAKRIDGE. ed; but I raised no further objection. I was will- ing to gratify Agnes, not only because she was painfully anxious that I should do so; but there was another and a stronger reason which influenced me. I did not care to cross my wife in any thing just then. The well-being of another was dependent upon the well-being of herself. Agnes was likely to be a mother.         . 1         .   '     ,   - . - CHAPTER- XXIIT I ... "There was a laughing devil in his:sneer,: . Thlat raised emotions both of rage and fear."  - - -BBow. EARLY the next morning (Easter-even, 1793), we left Rome by the Porto del Popolo. Col. Maxwell, an English officer whose acquaintance we had made some time before, occupied a seat in our vettura, intending to journey with us as far as the Falls of Terni. It was with real regret that I turned my :face away from  the dead realities of the Eternal City. Rome had opened a new world to me. It was only there that I had been able to shake off the restlessness, which at times amounted to moroseness, occasioned by my desire to return to England, that I might devote myself, as I have said, to the business that had brought me abroad. There, in that City of the Soul, day after day, I lived with the dead that I called back to life. The Appian Way was a crowded street to me; and the tombs which line it were the dwelling-houses of the living, not the mausoleums of the- dead.  I marched with Septimius Severus through the arch that bears his name, and shouted with the crowds that filled the sedia of the Coliseum and the Circus of Maximus. Under the guidance of a monk, who seemed himself to belong to a buried -271 ,                   r q   272        OAKRIDGE. past, I explored the catacomb of San Sebastiano, the oldest in Rome, and saw the early Christians cele- brate in secret their: worship. I wandered in the Sacred Grove, and stood beside the Fountain of JEgeria, and observed the Roman King Numa hold- ing- his nightly conferences with the goddess, the prophetic nymph who honored him with -her love. All this and:much more I sawin that City of the Soul; and- now, after so many years, as I close my eyes,a-nd behold again the Rome of that long-ago, it needs not holy writ to tell me that -" there were giants in the earth in those days; " and I begin to -doubt if man has advanced in knowledge or in, power since the -time when- to be a-Roman citizen were greater than a, king. Do you wonder that I lived outside -of myself, as it were, while in Rome? Driving over a road, the latter -part of the way very beautiful, we stopped for the night at Civita Castellana, where we were comfortably lodged. In the: morning, before breakfast, we walked to the viaduct, :formerly a' splendid' stone- structure, span-  ning the ravine, one hundred and twenty feet high,-- and apparently built for eternity ;! but we found it, in the middle, fallen -and crushed from the giving- way of the foundations -of one of the piers six months: before. The ravinel was hardly half a . mile in width; but, owing to this accident, carriages were obliged to make a- detour of- seven miles, in order to arrive at the-opposite :side or end of the viaduct. It was eight 6o'clock- when we left the inn at Civitai   -OAKRID3GE.        278 Castellana, intending to press on as far as Terni, and to stop -there for the night. The detour of seven miles was over a rough and hilly road, lined -on either side, for most of the way, with dense forests, that darkened the road -with their shade. Now as- cending, now descending, we had proceeded at a snail's pace two or three miles on our way, and had reached the valley at the foot of a high hill, when the vettura was suddenly surrounded by four masked men, armed with carabines and knives, one of whom seized the heads of the leaders, while the .other three, with levelled guns, ordered us to descend. Maxwell had with him a pair of pistols, which he had loaded upon starting the day before; and mine, also loaded, were- within easy reach. The colonel was a dead shot, as well as myself; and, in less time than it takes to record it, we had resolved, by a look exchanged, that we would fight the brigands, as we supposed them to be, to the death. Agnes was calmer and more self-possessed than I should have expected under the circumstances; but she shuddered visibly, and said to me, "Delaney is among them. The old feeling has returned." Just then, mounted on a horse that was covered with foam, another man, pistol in hand, appeared upon the scene.: His coming seemed to exercise a controlling influence over the bandits, for they fell back as he rode up; and he advanced rapidly towards the carriage. He still held in his hand the pistol; and  it was pointed directly at Col. Maxwell. I thought he was about to discharge it; and, snatching   274        OAKRIDGE. one of the pair which lay on the seat in front of- me, I levelled it at him, and fired. He fell from his horse. At the same time Maxwell;, with unerring aim, had sent a bullet to the heart of one of- the others. Of the three that were left, two turned and fled. The one that remained, the same who had seized the heads of the leaders, advanced with folded arms towards the carriage, and, halting beside it, threw off his mask, and disclosed the pale face of Delaney. "Agnes Leroyd," he said, "I had intended to take you by force from the double murderer at your side, who calls himself your husband. I should have been justified in so doing; for, in the sight of Heaven, yoq, are mine, and not his. I have travelled' far to find you, and am tired out with longing. Will you not leave that man and go with me, your heaven-predes- tined husband?  Agnes did not answer him, but, clinging still more closely to me, said,- "Send him away! Send him away!" ' I go," he said, ," since you will have it so. But I shall be near you always, nearer than you think. That I am thwarted again in my purpose, only shows me that my time has not yet come. I bide it." Then, turning to me,- he continued, pointing to the body of the horseman, "The blood of the innocent; the blood of the innocent! Twice have your hands been dyed; and the end is not yet. In the name of my dead boy, and in the name of that dying man, I curse you, Henry Barham, and you shall be cursed I "   OAKRIDGE.         275  I had become used to his curses, and heeded them not. -- That he called me "Barham " did not escape me ;-but my'thoughts were on the fallen horseman; and I said to Delaney, - ; "If you have a spark of humanity about you, you iwill stop y6ur cursings; and attend to the man, who, you say, is dying"' -.          : .... "He is, e'er this, beyond 'human help," he an- swered. 'Y You do your killing well. But I knew the man, and will see that the body be removed, and :that it have a decent burial."' -; So- saying, he placed a whistle' to his lips, -and sounded it. Presently out of the woods came the two men who had fled when their comrade was shot. '    Remove thso$e- bodies from the road," said Dse- laney. "They obstruct the carriage-way'."  --The men, still masked, obeyed him. We watched them as they bore, first the body of the man I had shot, afterwards'that of their companion, into the depths of the forest.     :      , I shall return to Rome presently,' said Delaney, addressing himself to me.  "The man you have killed was here to assist, not to harm you. Your second victim, like your first, met his fate in your service. Who will the third one be? Have you any wordto -send to the wife whom you have just now miade a widow? ,-It might gratify her to know that she has your sympathy," he added-with a sneer, and a4ook of-such extreme malignity, that I shuddered in-spite of- my efforts to- seem indifferent to- his rav- ings.   276        OAKRIDGE. "Farewell, Miss Leroyd," he said, turning to Agnes. "The day cometh when you will not say of- me, ' Send him away! Send him away!' On that day the scales shall fall from your eyes, and your soul shall escape even as a bird out of{ the snare of the fowler: the snare - shall be broken, and you shall be delivered." He looked at Agnes as if expecting a response, but, finding that none came, turned aside, and with un- covered head took his way into the forest, following the path the two men had taken just before. It was the last that I saw of Hugh Delaney for many years. ' Who is that man?" asked Maxwell; " and why did you suffer him to insult you so? Had I been you, if the fellow had a dozen lives, they all should have paid the forfeit." I saw that he thought I was lacking in courage. ^ I knew him in America, where I had the misfor- tune to" kill his only son. He is a monomaniac, and I pity him," I answered. Maxwell perceived from the tone of my voice that it was a subject that distressed me, and avoided any further allusion to it. "Drive on," he said to the vetturing, who had been like one in a maze. The driver did not wait for the order to be re- peated; and five minutes afterwards we were at least a mile on our way. The four horses flew like the wind. It seemed as if they, -too, realized the situa- tion, and were glad to put distance between them and that valley of death. I turned to Agnes. She was very pale and still;   OAKRIDGE.         2" and the hand that was clasped in mine was as cold as that of a statue. "The danger is past, dearest," I said to her. "Your persecutor has been once more foiled. Let us forget that he lives." She made no answer. "This will do her more good than all you can say to her," said Maxwell, passing me a flask partly filled with brandy. "It is diluted: let her take it all," he added. I poured into a glass half the contents of the flask. Agnes swallowed it. The effect was almost instan- taneous. The color returned to her cheeks; and, long before we reached Terni, she seemed to have thrown off her fears. I could see, however, that she was troubled. The beautiful -scenery through which we passed, and the objects of interest on the way, at- tracted her not. A sadness had come over her which all my efforts were powerless to dispel. Wee reached Terni early in the afternoon, and, taking fresh horses, drove to see the falls, - the "Hell of Waters," as some modern poet calls them. Driving first to the upper fall, we left the carriage, and walked down the mountain-side into the valley, and then, ascending a little way on the other side, we came to the point from which' the finest view is to be had. There we rested a while, and I sought to interest Agnes in the beautiful sights that were all about us. She seemed pleased with the hundreds of rainbows that were caught in the spray of the falls; but there was no enthusiasm; and when we returned to the carriage by the beautiful path at the 24   ,27 8       ,OAKRIDGE. ,foot of the hill, part of the way through an aveniie of orange-trees, she showed no interest in the sur- roundings. I was glad when we reached the inn, and were once more by ourselves. I know that I am foolish, dear husband," she -said-to me; "'but I cannot rid myself of the idea that some evil is impending. Oh, how -I wish that what" you. calls your 'mission' were accomplished, and that we were ready to go to our home! I some- times fear that I shall never see it again." I tried to speak cheerfully, and to conceal from her. the true state of my feelings in view of the events of the day. "The terrible scene through which you have passed would have unnerved the strongest of your sex," I said to her; (" and, considering your condition' I think -you have borne yourself remarkably well. A good night's sleep will refresh you; and the morn- ing will find you yourself again." ,Did you notice 'that he called you Henry Bar- ham?- What could he mean?" she asked. "How different he seemed- to-day from what he has ever been before! Do you think he will leave us for a while, or will he plot some new horror? Oh, my dear husband!: if you love me take me to our home. :The constant dread that I shall have will kill me if I -stay." - I. promised to comply with her wishes, if, at the end of three months after reaching England, I had not solved the mystery that I had come abroad to unravel. The name of BARiHAM, which he had applied to me, I judged was inadvertently spoken by   OAKRIDGE.        279 Delaney, and doubted not that the name would furnish the thread by means of which I should be able to find my way out of the labyrinth of doubt and perplexity in which I was wandering. As I look back upon it now, it seems strange to me that the death of, the man who had fallen by my hand did not trouble me more .at this time. Again and again I hadweighed the circumstances in my mind; and the conclusion to which I had come- was, that Delaney could have been in Rome but a day or two- at the most, and that he must have devoted that time to gathering about him the desperate characters, who, with him, had surrounded the carriage. I would not believe that the mah on horseback had come to aid us, as Delaney had said; but, the wish perhaps being father to the thought, I preferred to believe that the horseman was one of the band, and the principal man among them. The effect that his coming had had on the three others, .and Delaney's admission that he knew him, was proof to me of this: besides, it was extremely improbable, almost impossible, that any one should have come, to- our aid; for there was no one likely to do it, and the need of it could not have been known. After the day of its. occurrence, I did not again- refer to this second attempt of Delaney. Agnes- also forbore all allusion to the subject; but I could see that she was changed from that time. The smile with which she greeted my coming had more or less of sad- ness blended with it; and I could not fail to perceive that she grew paler and more delicate, week by   280        OA-KRIDGE. week, and that she was more and more unwilling that I should leave her presence, even for ,an hour. I attributed this, in part, to her condition, and took care to say and do nothing that would add to her depression. And so the days and weeks went on, till we found ourselves again in England. We had travelled more rapidly than we should have done, but for the desire, which was no less mine than hers, to return to America at the earliest practicable moment. We had- not seen or heard any thing of Delaney during these weeks; but thigsfact had' not served to dispel, in any degree, the cloud that was enveloping Agnes. The old smile did not once return to her. Her increasing paleness troubled me; and out of sympathy, I would fain believe, I, too, began to be despondent when I needed most to be cheerful, and selfishy, as I now think, gave the most of my time to working out the problem of my father's birth and parentage, when I should have been devoting myself to the happiness and well-being of my wife. I do not mean:that I was unkind or neglectful. I do not think Agnes ever thought I was so. But, as I have just said, I had promised to return, if at the end of: three months I had failed to accomplish my mission; and I felt that the task was a difficult one, and the, time for its accomplishment very brief. Whether I accomplished it within the time, you will know a few pages further on. Here I must digress a -little, that the chronological order of events may be kept up.   CHAPTER XXTV.. "The reverend abbot With all his convent honorably received him." SrA ESPEARE. ABOUT two hours' drive from    Wawenock, in a north-eastwardly direction, lies the town of Green- field, which, at the time of which. write, was a place of about a thousand inhabitants, a majority of whom were of Irish extraction, and still clung to the Roman Catholic faith   of their fathers. Here a church had been erected; and connected with it was the Convent of St. Agatha, of which a distant rela- tive of Judge Radcliffe was the mother superior. I think I have not heretofore mentioned that -Inez Radcliffe was a Romanist in' her religious belief, and had been from her childhood a constant and faithful attendant at the services of. this-church, going witht her mother a distance of twenty miles for that pur- pose, both on  Sundays and  week-days, whenever services were held.  An  excellent school for young ladies, of which the mother superior was the direct- ress, :had been established, where the higher English branches were taught, together with French' and music; and Inez had been for several years a pupil at: the school, leaving it at' the age of eighteen. -I do not believe, that, as a girl, she ever thought of, at 24*             281   282        OAKRIDGE. some time, beeoming a nun; but, about the time that. Agnes- and I leftRome for England, she entered the convent as a novice, -ahd soon- afterwards became herself a teache'r in the school where she had so: lately been a pupil. A letter which I had received from your father -about the, time of our arrival in London gave us full information of the facts con- nected with this sudden resolution on Inez' part, and-told us of the efforts- that were made to deter her from the sacrifice, but in vain. The same mail brought a letter from Alice. It let me more into the hidden causes; and the thought occurred to me that- Alice had -discovered the -true reason for it -all. Agnes knew nothing of what had passed between - Inez and myself ;i and she now little suspected how bitterly I was regretting the step that Inez had taken. i'It was a matter of favor that Inez had been permitted to enter the convent; for it- was filled;' so your father had- written. "A matter of favor!-"1 Iknew the convent well; for I had accom- panied Inez there on several of her Sunday church- goings, and I knew that its inmates, with the exception of the mother- superior and the two other teachers in the school, were all lowly born and illite- rate. I could& fancy -how gladly the convent-doors were thrown open to admit -the daughter of Judge Radcliffe; and I doubted ifs much more of homage would have been paid to St. Agatha herself,-had- she' condescean^dt6to assume -mortal form, and- enter as a novice:, t: convent- of which she was the patron-' saint, than was paid to the mortal: but magnificent:   OAKRIDGE.  -       283 creature who was thus offering herself as a sacrifice to a mistaken sense of duty. "Inez has not seemed like herself for several months past. Doubtless she has been all along secretly contemplating the step which she has now taken. All the reply that she has made to our expostulations has been, ' I feel it to be my duty ' and all the promise we could induce her to give is, that her novitiate shall continue for at least two years." - Thus had Alice written. Am I not right in calling it a mistaken sense of duty? Did it not, after all, amount only to this, I cannot be the wife of him whose wife I had hoped to be: I will therefore be the bride of Heaven "? It was a sacrifice, not a freewill offering. It was an at- tempted -escape from herself, not a surrender of her- self,-nearer a sin than a self-abnegation, nearer despair than hope, nearer hell than heaven. So I thought when  I had read  the letters, and the thought made me wretched. I was indignant at myself, too, that I should let the matter trouble me so, much; for, after all what was Inez Radcliffe to me? "This news seems to trouble you, my husband," said Agnes, as I laid down the letters with a sigh. "It does trouble me, darling," I replied. "I can- not bear to think of Inez Radcliffe as immured in a convent. Were she my sister, I could hardly feel more sorrowful." "Many things happen in the course of two years," she answered. "Let us hope that she will see her dutty in- a truer light before the full time is past."   284        OAKRIDGE. Outside of this information respecting Inez, the letters from home contained only satisfactory intelli- gence. Every thing was progressing favorably, so far as business was concerned; and James wrote in the best of spirits. Inez' entering a convent had not turned the current of his love, nor seemingly agi- tated the .surface:of the waters, which with him ran still and deep; and Alice, though sorrowing over her sister's absence, when she spoke of herself, could not keep back the well-spring of happiness which was making her life " a joy forever."  They .were happy; and they remained so through-life. Thank God for it'! And may the: happiness which was theirs descend twice multiplied to you, the only child that Heaven sent to bless them! ven sent to   CHAPTER XXV. ' My father's brother, but no more like miy father Than I to Hercules."- HAMLET, act i. sc. 2. UPON arriving in London, we took lodgings in the Peep o' Day inn, a respectable out-of-the-way place, where, as I thought, I would be more at liberty to pursue uninterruptedly my investigations into the early history of my parents and grandparents. I had determined to devote every moment of my time to that object; and my first step was to obtain the parliamentary catalogues for the ten years preceding my father's migration to America.  By carefully examining and comparing/ these, I was enabled, within a week after my arrival, to sift down the names out of which I must select to less than fifty. Of these, three weeks more of investigation sufficed to place all but five; so that, in less than a month, I had on my list but five ex-members of parliament whose history I had to trace. The name of "Bar- ham," which I had thought would furnish me with a key to the mystery, had not once occurred; and I was left more in the dark than-ever as to Delaney's meaning. To give you in detail the events of the next few weeks would weary your patience; and I therefore run hastily over them. When I had reached the 285 , i r    286         OAERIDGE. point to which I have just alluded, and felt assured that one of the five names was that :of my father, I conieluded- to consult counsel learned in the law-; and thereafterwards our investigations were'pursued with such vigor, that, before the. three months to -' which Hhad: limited myself had passed, complete- success - wa- attained. The nearest approach to the name ofU,  , Barham" -was -'De' Berham," a simi- larity which-, strange' to say, had not suggested itself to me-; but it -was one of which;the lawyer was not : slow to avail himself. The family- of De Berhams resided in the ancient city of - Canterbury, the capital of Kent, which county at this time sent eighteen members to parlia- ment.  Thither, accompanied by my counsel, I went, with little expectation, however, of gaining the infor- mation that- I had been seeking so long and so diii- ' gently. -- I -did- not share in. the lawyer's confidence, notwifhstanding the fact, that, --of the five names  spoken of abovie, that of De Berham -alone remained. We haid satisfied- ourselves, -that in: the other four cases there was nothing tom justify further investiga- tions; for, of the four, three had died, on English- soil, and 'one-:still ;survived atf an advanced age. -The manor-house of. the De Berham family was a quaint old structure, situated in the midst fof wooded- acres, through which winding-avenues, shaded by "i trees thick interwoven,;" furnished carriage-ways. and, footpaths. The .-proprietor of- the estate;,- Sir Robert De Beriami was at this time upwards- of seventy years of age;n bat:.he appeared to:be many   OAKRIDGE.         28T7;- years -yo-unger.- -He -greeted us cordially as we :en- tered the library of, the -mansion,-- and listened in-  tently, almost with eagerness, to what we had to say,  in- .making^ known- the object of our visit. ^- He did - not once interrupt the- lawyer -in -his somewhat- lengthy statement; and, when -he- closed by asking if  he: could: aid us- in any way, Sir. Robert rose from his seat, and, after wa'lking to and fro for several minutes, opened a--secret drawer in his writing-table, arid, tak- ingo therefrom a key, requested-us to follow him. --I ^ had observed, as he walked, that he at times- regarded -me- intently; and I overheard him say to himself, "It must be so. - The resemblance is indeed-striking.' - We rose, and followed him out of -the library-into the-hall, up -the-heavy oaken -st/aircase, and'through a long corridor, till we stood before a ,door at the. end of the gallery. This- he unlocked; and we en-- tered- a -small apartment, - w-hich, -it needed no second glance-to perceive, had not been .occupied, for:many- years:. Cobwebs -hung' from  the ceiling in long tangled masses; and so thick was the accumulatiorn of       thdust. upon the window-glass, that the : light scarcely penetrated it. "This .chamber has been undisturbed for nearly twoscore years, and would not now -be opened, if -my duty were,- not, stronger than my inclination. Look there! '"' said De, Berham, pointings to a picture which was! hanging against the wall. :We looked where he indicated; and I saw- the portrait, asJ, judged, of a young man;: 'but owing to -the dimness of the light, and the dust which sX    -288 .OAKRIDGE. :covered it, no, correct idea of the features could be obtained. "I'dislike to disturb even the dust of this cham- ber,". con'tinued De Berham; "but I must so far do it as to exposeo to view the face of this portrait, to show you which was my object in bringing you here." A silk handkerchief which he held -in his 'hand was converted into a duster for the purpose. A few flirts, and out of the dust came the face which it had hidden. My eyes had become somewhat accustomed to the dimness.; and now before me I saw distinctly the perfect likeness of myself. W'VVhat means this?"I said to De Berham. "Whose portrait is that? and how came it here?" "It is the portrait of your father, painted by order of my father, half a century ago," -he answered. "There can be no doubt of the relationship: the -resemblance is most extraordinary," said the lawyer. I WSas too much agitated to speak. "Let -us descend," said De erham ;- and, locking the door, he led the way back to the library. "Be seated, gentlemen. ,I. have much to say to you," he said, when he had entered the room, point- ing to the chairs we had just before vacated . We seated ourselves; and De Berham commenced immediately,: as follows :-  "The portrait you have just seen is one of two, painted, as I have already told you, half a: century ago; and is, that of Reginald de Berham (better known as: Reginald Barham), who, for the first thirty   OAKRIDGE.         289 years of his life, was, with the exception of a few months, an inmate of this house, as one" of the members of my father's family. Up to the time of the death of my father, we had supposed that the latter had adopted Reginaid at the request of his dying mother, who was in some way connected with the family. You may not be aware that I am a second son, and have but recently succeeded to the title and estates; my elder brother James having deceased without issue. There was a difference' of two years in the ages of Reginald and James; the former being the elder. They were totally dissimilar in disposition and habits, and, as they grew up to- gether, evinced a mutual dislike, which, though it never grew into open warfare, was sufficient to keep them apart. With me, however, the contrary was true. Though four years my senior, Reginald and I were, as boys, the warmest friends; and our friend- ship was never interrupted till he disappeared out -of my life, nearly. forty years ago.  "6'Our father died in the- year 1752.. When his will was read, we found, to our great surprise, that he had named Reginald as his heir, declaring that he was his first-born son by his second-cousin, Louisa Barham, to whom he had been legally joined in mar- !riage, and who had died soon after his births. His reasons for keeping the marriage secret -up t0 the time of the death of his wife were given in full in papers referred to in his will; and he explained his subsequent silence by saying that he could not bear the thouglit, after the birth of- James, of blasting 25 ;- '* W./   290        OAKRIDGE. his: young wife's joy at the thought'-that she had bo0rne him an heir, and so kept up the deception' till' the 'death of his wife' which'preceded his own by less than a year, when he had made his will, and set forth'the true state of facts.-: "To"James, who, as I have 'said, had always dis- liked Reginald, this disinheritance, as he regarded it, came with a crushing weight.;  He consulted an eminent barrister in relation to the matter, and, act- ing under his advice, determined to contest the will, and the claims of Regin'aId under-it. Hence arose the' somewhat 'celebrated case of 'De Berham vs. Barham,' familiar to you, no doubt," he added, turn- ing to the lawyer, who nodded his- head' in assent, "which, -after two years, was decided in favor of James; all efforts to establish the marriage having proved unavailing, for the reason that my father had faile d[to'name the place, or country even, where the- ceremony itook place. - "At the time of this decision, which virtually de- clared him to be'illegitimate, Reginald, who, after the death of his father, had assumed the name of De Berham, was representing the city of Canterbury in parliament, andhad acquired an enviable reputa-- tioh as a man of integrity and ability. Stung to the quick, no doubt, by the taint which had been cast upon'his name and upon' the honor of his mother,- the strong man bent beneath thee stroke, and from that day to, this has not been seen' or heard from by any of'those who were once proud to be numbered among his friends. -   OAKBRIDGE-        291 6"James, after the final decision, ordered the cham-. ber which you entered to-day, and which had been- Reginald's, to be locked up, and gave me the key, with. the injunction that the room was not to be opened by any one, without permissionfrom himself. It never has been opened from that day until this." De Berham paused. We waited, expecting him to continue; but, as he did not, the lawyer asked him his reasons for opening the room for us, whom he then saw for the first time, and whose story, if true, would work such a change for him*. ,' I am an old man, and a childless one," he an- swered. "My wife and little ones passed away long ago. I thought myself the last of my race.   As soon as I knew the object of your coming to me,- and had heard the statement of' the facts, and had recognized the wonderful -resemblance that- exists between Mr. Oakridge and the portrait -of Reginald de Berham, I felt that I saw before me the rightful heir tothe possessions, which, having heard':iothing of Reginald for so many years, I had theretofore sup- posed to be -mine. To make assurance doubly sure, I wished to bring him face to face with the portrait. I have never, for a moment, doubted the truth of my father's statements relative to Reginald, 'and have always felt that the judgment -of the court should have been in his favor. I shall take a real pleasure in restoring to the son the estates of which his father was unjustly deprived, and beg that you will not delay the formalities necessary to transfer the possession. The race, thank God! is not extinct."'   292   -     OAKRIDGE. :Thisis s Is most extraordinary," responded the law- yer. (Do .yo: mean :to say, Sir Robjert, that yo u; are prepared' to surrender all this property, without. firther proof of identity than the likeness which Mr. Oakridge bears to the -portrait of Reginald de: Berham       :  -" "The :likeness is enough. f6r me," he answered "er see before me now, as -I look upon: your client, the friend of fiftyyears ago, the same in form, in feature, and in 'every tiing, 'save that he'lacks the joyous .mien which 'his father always had in sunshine' and in'lioud " "I. came here to,vindicate, the fair fame, 'of my: grandparents, not to rob you of your inheritance," I said to him. ' 'Stolen property' can be taken by 'its' owner: w herever found : there is no robbery in that. Eh,: sir?." he answered, turning to the lawyer-with: a, smile .   ...       '  . ',",l'ndoubtedly not; :but'prudence requires that there be' no doubt of' the ownership. A :man cannot' justify a wrongful taking -by pleading that he believed himself to be the owner. He must show the habendum et tenendum," was the reply. "I do not dispute his right. He has been kept out of his own too long already," said De Berham. "During your lifetime I will take nothing," I said, " unless you see fit to give me the duplicate portrait of which you spoke. I would like much to have a portrait of my father, should it prove to be true that such it is."   OAkRIbGE.        293 " The duiplicate 'is. not i';n my possession,-or under my' control,'" he answered., 'It' twas;' painted for' a' fi end 'of your tfathers,. Sir Hugh' DOela1ney ofDu in, wfi0ho stiltl liviing, ,a:nd: "M whose 'gallery: I'have. 'sev-, erAl times seen it." "'Sir Hugh Delaney.!"I exclaimed. "Can' you te-ll me,'sir, if he is' arelativ' e ofHugh Delaney of Newp(ort, int tfie Isle of Wight'?"i'  ,' His uncle," he' anrsiered. ':But' you must' not, judge of :him" by" lis -neph'ew. 'w The latter, 'I 'har, is' a' sort of modern Don 'Quixote, and has ' been :wander-' ing'for years in an unavailing pursuit of some Dul-'" cinea. Sir Hugh -was ruin'in a 'different mould." It'was all plain to me now. .DeIane y had seen t e: - portrait at the house of his uncle, and had doubtless ,learned from him' the history of my father. ' Recog- nizing in- me the wonderfuii resemblance of" which D'e B'erham- arind' the lawy-er' hada 'spoken', he -had,' without knowing the truth, jumped at the conclusion'ii which h-d occas oned his call1g ,me,:son ofa  a bastard sire." - 22-: , 60-  . - * - -- ..-. - -  %  . . . . . . . .   . . . .. .. . J- /B       :II   CHAPTER XXVI, "Leaves have their time to fall, And flowers to wither at. the north wind's breath, And stars to set; but- all, Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!" FELICIA HEMANS. IT was not without difficulty that I persuaded Sir Robert de Berham   to retain the possession of his ancestral estates. I had no longer any doubt that I was the son of- Reginald, and as such the 'heir; but as I was seeking only to satisfy myself as to the truth; or falsity of Delaney's assertion, which I could -not have done but for the disinterested' action of Sir Robert, I was fixed in my determination, and only consented to be the channel through which to transfer the legal title to him. This -I did, as it to my mind vindicated the reputation of my grand- parents as completely as if the judgment had- been set aside, and I had been declared by a court of "law. to be the legal representative of the family.  Sir Robert knew nothing of my mother's maiden name or family; nor was I able, during my -investigations, to learn any thing respecting the time or place -of the marriage of my parents.  It was a coincidence in the life-histories of 'my father and myself, as singular as the resemblance between us was remarkable. 294  v             ,   '   OAKRIDGE.        -295 We remained for several days at Canterbury, arranging matters -connected with the De Berham property. The estate was not a large one ; but the income from it was amply sufficient to enable Sir Robert to live comfortably, and to entertain gener- ously the numerous guests with whom the Hall was almost constantly filled. Returning to London -as soon -as the business was * concluded, our preparations for leaving the city were quickly made; and the fifteenth day of July, 1793, found us once more on shipboard, bound for Boston, Mass. pAgnes had some time before written to New: port, her old home,    and engaged an experienced middle-aged woman to accompany her, who could act as lady's-maid on shipboard, or as nurse, should the voyage be protracted, and her services be needed in that capacity. .This woman joined us at Liver- pool, where the ship "Richard III.," on which we had taken passage, was lying.  We  hadc heard nothing of Delaney since the day of the second attempted abduction of Agnes.  The return-voyage was a severe one, and unusu- ally long even for those days. Agnes, aias! was not destined to see its termination. The terrible :sea- sickness which afflicted her:for the first five6 weeks of the passage hastened, -without doubt, the time of -her confinement,; and a son was born to us- before mid;-cean wgas- reached. Already enfeebled: by the terrible ordeal throug which-she had passed, the birth of the child was too great a trial for the little strenrgth thhat remained to her; and, a fortnight after   ?-?96  .OAEID. the' event, she ay- still-, and -cold- in:. the ;;embraee of death. .- She knew from the first-:that she- shoid'ddie, ;and wished-that itfmight be on dec, in :thb sinsne, and on: Sunday, if -od ;willed it 0so i Her--prayer ,was grantedt. ,\The daay, ,that- was /the ::last of6 earth to her was-,he Lord's day. ,At her request I had: takii her in, myams:, ,--, how very, :very light.- she :iwas t-, and had borne her to the: couch .that wehad prepared for her on dc4k.- There -:as, not a -cloud in :th  sk-y-  and the ocean, as if in sympathy, wasg for- the- first time calm andfstil. The-ship, On even:keel, scarcely luoyed:through the waters; andc the -officers and- s6a- men walked -about the decks withbslObwand noiseless tread, .,as if they lfear ed that.: the., slightest -soun'd mght disturb :the feeble girl; who lay'there' so stili anad:?aeand. .beeautiful,- ButCa; - few days: before she' had ^.said: .to0 mei, '." When H die, my -husband, I would. have, y0or' band in -mine, thati the- last effort of niy ll!.ay -by e tto, ,press it, ::It was the- second time: that she had, ispoken, to me of dying; and-I had- 'benit ver her, and ,kissed hLer. and wept: bitteriy;- and how as sh e,bade me sit beside her, and-asked : to take my' hdhaapdin hers, the wwords'tee:rred:to 'e and as, I' bge:.d:;m, 'he:ad, a;ndsearrely restraining' mv' tears, ' ged i ntoherfa'e ,thw--a painfully-anxious look, she sathat I wastroubled, and-said-toA me:, 7 - ';,erte . -,opt, deaghaa shand.. - ;The -ongest; life -is but;}, pt , and :od's:time is always: the .;sthe, sI-am content to die,' ;:thgh ; I:- leave- my ifirs-born, ore y little one;,- ainid you, ,my. :.husband.- and my *.dearei;t- firiendI.., ,MOurmur I:not, therefo're,' but.: rather; rejbiee: -   OAKRIDGE.    --   297 that your,are spared to watch over him. If it be' permitted- me, I, too, will be ever near -you both. But now turn- from me a little, that I may not see your face; and listen, for I have much to-say."  :I turned my head away, and looked outt upon the smooth expanse of waters. The officers and crew had drawn apart, as if they realized, that death was standing betwixt us two. There was silence above, around, and beneath us.: Scarcely above a whisper, she -spoke to me:-  "Our life, beloved, has been saddened- by a fear. The shadow of Delaney,- as he- threatened, has, indeed, covered' my footprints. But for him, I should not have known you: but for him, you would not now be sorrowing for me. ' It were better for you, perhaps, that we had never met."  I turned, and would'have spoken; but she said to me, 4 Look again upon the sea, and interrupt me not, dear Henry. Time leaves me no moments to waste.' I must say quickly what I have to say. I know that it will surprise and pain you; but for your sake, and the sake of our little one, I feel that I 'ought to say it. Darling, you have:been a kind.; and tender husband to me; but, through' all these months, you have only thought'you loved'me;. Nay, start not: 'twas but yesterday, as it were, that the' knowledge came to me. It am glad that it- came ; for- I think, that, in the future, there is- happiness in store for you, which I feel you may secure by heeding what I am about to .say I am thinking, too, of Our' ' little one, who will be left. without a mnother's lore and a mother's care. To God and to you I can onljy   298        OAKRIDGE. commend him now; but, my husband, could II be assured that the prayer ofmy heart will be answered, and that the mother I would choose for him: will one day be his, the last wish of the wife who has. loved you will be met, and you will make me happy in my death, ,as you- have made me happy in my life. Promise me, therefore, Oakridge,: that, ere the two years be past, you will take from :the- Convent of St. Agatha the noble girl, who, for your sake, has en- tered it, and whom, though you know :it not, you have loved these'many years." I turned towards her. There Was on her face a celestial smile ilike that of Milton's angel. ' "Promise,' she repeated. "I1 caannot," I answered. "O Agnes! my wife, my darling,-e e me not.    -You only have I: loved. Let!me at least Cling to yourmemory, if I can have but that."' "Promise me at-least," she said, that, if you find what I have told you to be true, you will do as I wish." ' Her voice was growing weaker; and she looked at me -so longingly, that I dared not disappoint her; and I answered,-. "I promise, beloved." The same celestial smile glowed on her face. "Send now," she said) "and bid the nurse bring baby to me." I beckoned to the officer of the deck, and told him what was wanted. Immediately one of the cabin- boys was' sent with the message. In the few mo.   OAKRTDGE.       j :299 ments that we waited, Agnes spoke to me of her father and brother, and'bade me tell them they must love and watch over. her little one for his mother's sake. "Ask Alice to be god-mother to the child, and give him your own name, Henry, :when you present him in holy church for baptism," she said. A moment later, and the weeping nurse, who: had learned to: lovedher mistress,- stood beside us with the babe in her arms. . "Lay him beside me," said the dying mother: -"I would kiss him once more, and, die with his little head upon my heart." And there, with herfirst-born -folded to her bosom, her hand clasped - in mine, the -blue of God's firma- ment above her, with the whrds, "t God bless you both, and take me tojhimself trembling onher lips, in her youth and purity and loveliness, she died. I scarcely felt the pressure of the hand which she had told n, wis to be the last effort of her w'il., ::                     f   CHAPTER XXVii. "And the stately ships go on To theirhaen under the hill;  ':  aBut, o;h for the touchof a vanished hand,  An4 the sound of a voice, that is still!" ..... . . ... . .TENNYS OP. IiHVl? ; oovever the events -of the next five weeks, -the, mournful burial at. sea; the days of gloom thatl .followeded" ; the alternate storm and sunshine; the feeling of utter loneliness and wretchedness; that ma dea:the days so long, and the nights so: wearisome,; Lhe watching over the little one, who, for want of proper nourishmnent on shipboard, grew: . weaker day by day.; the, sad landing at. Boston; and the :sadder. journey -toWawenock.: All this had come to pass ; and. I had ,livedlthrough, it all. I had not wept: the, fountain of my tears. was dried .up. I scarce looked. gt mly child, now that it had come, out of, its danger n [ had ;never: taken him in my arms.: since his mother lied. Dear- little innocent, that :he: was, I looked upoxt. hmmasthe cause ;of her death. -,Hope had died. a1pof. me : a :morbid- melancholy took -possession .of t  ;:, All the misfortulnesl,., of my life .continually +ed. in-pQroessioni goiniand.' returning in an end- less rouin Te :vision- of Delney as I had last . seen" h:imi- with: the,- moeking ,sner upon :his, lips, haiuted me -bnight and ,da y. Mand anfeand;thea man I I , 800  q,. ' t ,   OAKRIDGEB.        0L had shot were constantly in my thoughts. Had they not died through my agency? What had I not suf- fered in the last two years? I began to think that I was indeed accursed. It was the twenty-second day of September, 1793, just two years from the day that Agnes had, prom- ised -to be my wife, that I found myself again at Oakridge Hall.' - I had.- arrived tlate i n -the evening. Sir Edward Leroyd knew not -of the death of his daughter; and, though I could well understand how anxiously and longingly he must be waiting to wel- come her back, I had not the courage to go to him, or to send him word; of- my arrival.-" "' Let him -rest for- to-night," I said to myself: "he will be better able :in the morning to bear the news that:T Imust break to him."  The morning came. 'It was the- -anniversary of my Wedding-day. --Only ac year had passed, since, under, such happy auspices, Agnes and I had waved our farewells from the deck of "The Paragon," as w/e started fortilh on our life-voyage together. 'Little did those who stood -watching the noble vessel till she  passed through -the'narrows, - and: rounded Point  Jerrymisquam, imagine that they had looked for the last time uipon the face of the beautiful bride; 'who,  full of life anrid joy, was, leaving- them for a twelve- - month'si-; journmey; and little did H iimangine -t  hat that joiur/ney, upon which' we- 'had-- ^nitered so: joyously,, .  would have so early and so sad :a-termniiniatio n. ..  The morning founid me stillr more avterse to being' myself:the mesernger of the mburiltidings; a;nd -I 26  , ,      -     .    ' %"  ,y5   a 302     - -OAWRIDGE. concluded to break the news by a letter to James, at the. same time requesting him to comewithlhis father to the Hall. I accordingly wrote to him as follows: "I have returned; but Agnes is not with. me. She sleeps the sleep that knows no waking-. Tell Sir Edward that it was her dying-message to him that he shouldo Iove our little boy for his mother's sake. Come to me, and bring your father with you. I cannot go to you."  I thought, that, possibly, the allusion to the boy would soften the blow a little; anrd I told the nurse to dress him in his prettiest robe (Agnesihad wrought it herself while in England), and to make him ready for their coming. She-did so,  and brought him to me., It was the- first time since Agnes's death that I had noticed .him attentively. He was a beautiful boy; and, as I looked at him in 'his nurse's; lap, ;two little hands went out towards me, and a father's love went out to him. I took the babe in my arms. The tears which had been so long pent up: burst -forth.; :and, when Sir Edward and your father entered the room,+ I, was sobbing like a child, over the child,: that, until then, -I had scarcely no- ticed. ;-?They came-and sat down beside 'me. Their .grief- was,' in a measure, swallowed up in mine. For a while, neither of .them spoke. At last Sir'. Edward :rose, and said, x' Give -me the -child, Oakridge, and f;iry yourltears.- -'The Lobrd- gave, and the: Lordl has taken away: blessed be the, name of the Lord.'*' j He spoke solemnly; andjI could see by the:.tremu- lousness sof hiss- voice that it was with an effort-- lhat he,kept back the current of his feeling.- 44James,  . ' li::; -,JTI   OAKRIDGE. -        803 whenh his father had- taken the child, came nearer to me, and, laying his head on my shoulder, mingled his tears with mine. Soon afterwards' Sir Edward surrendered the boy, who, as if -in sympathy, had commenced to cry, to the nurse, and, approaching me, said,' This morning, Oakridge, reminds me of' that beautiful one when you- and I stood- together upon the summit of yonder hill. Come, let us ascend it again. The walk will do you good." I arose at once; and, accompanied by James, we took our way over the familiar path that led to the mountain.: Not a word was said by either of us till the - summit was reached, and we: stood on the spot, :where, two years -ago that day, I had asked' Sir Edward for the hand of his 'daughter. Then, turnr ing to-me, he said,'. Tell me now of Agnes. H have brought you here, because -it seemed to- me, that I should be nearer to her amid the hills, where--the great heart: of Nature beats stronger, and ' the great eye of heaven,' shines brighter, than in the :valley below,. with its cold and its mists." I told them all that they did;not 'already know, excepting the- strange request -which Agnes- Ihad : ade of me with regard to Inez; :and Idid not::spare myself in the -recital.: .I blamed- myself: for leaving England,:before the birth of the child, and--for :not , providing better against the possibility of the, event takingplace: on Shipboard. I sought- not to ,palliate -or: excuse my -conduct;: on the contrary, I Shaded the. gloomy picture with darker tints. than the,:real , :fatSe warransted; .but neither Sir Edward: nor his son had any words of rebuke or censure. ". *       X          !. tx   304        OAKRIDGE. ,' Blame not yourself," said the former. ," All was done that could be done. - It was the will of Him who doeth all things well, that Agnes, henceforth, should live not in our sight, but in our hearts. Quos dii amant, immature mporiuntur."  It was noon before we returned to the Hall, and Sir. Edward soon afterwards took his leave. James, at ,my solicitation, remained with me; and, after lunch, I asked,him to go with me again to the moun- tain. It might be, I thought, that at the log-house of Delaney, or in the cavern, something might be found which could throw additional light on those matters that were still unexplained.  Besides, I wished to see the place where six weeks of the life of Agnes had been passed, and to live over again the scenes of that terrible night when she was res- cued out of the hands of her persecutor. It was a strange fancy, but as strong as it was strange. The afternoon was delightfully warm and pleasant; but both your father and myself were. too full of bitter recollections to leave any room for speech*. Silently we walked along, till we came- to the log- house of Delaney. The entrance-door was unlocked:;- and we lifted the latch, and entered. But little -of the furniture that I remembered to have seen when I:-visited the house before, now remained. The cabin had apparently been converted- into a sort ,of hunting-rendezvous for boys 5 for indications of its having been, recently used for such a purpose were everywhere within sand around it. But we, found nothing to reward, the diligent search that we made, ;   OAXBtR GE.        2b5 and so took our- way' towards the brow of the de- clivity, hoping to find the zigzag path that ledto' the entrance to the cave. It was with: much difficulty that we found it; for the two years that- had passed had obliterated, in a great "measure, its;; distiinctive marks. When we -finally:reached the level 'plat at the foot of the- path, I could see no indications 'that' the spot: had been revisite'd' since 'thei night of the6 ' rescue. The stone which' had been-i uplifted at that time had neverbeen replaced; the purchase, or whip, still-,remained; and upon the ground werei various articIes that I remembered to have seen-that' igh:t. Followed by James, I entered :the passage-'- :and," groping our way, we soon stood: Within- the 'ca-vd. The sun, which had long passed the zenith, wasg shining brightly; and, through the openiinig elsewhere spoken 'of, the -ays of light were streaming, "makinig" the interior 'almost? lu-minous --wil th-helr golden : beatns. Every-thing about :the place was ii confu- slon. Delaneey, when -captured, you wil' renIember,; was-abou't: to destroyt the contents of the'" cave, ad- hAd piled most of 'the- articles- of 'furnituie 'in a- h;t/ap, preparato ryto settding them on fire.'-' nit as : ti:ey' werebleft, w efournd them. Soee artiles:of feMmle- apparel were lying abbut thse :room, if ;I mayI' call :ihiti so; and- on the 'table, o r light-sade, weeseveral books,: aimong :-them,: the' praYer-book 'that lid: be-. longed -to Agnes. This table stoodo-:ea'r- the 1miidcii: of -the ,oom; ;and -the sunlight- throigh thbe';apefturre:', sh-onei directly : up on: it." l' Hetwa s, -doubtiWess', :'witn'g' t t6"  thiivfat;t, tlat the dampness, which iiad"mor'e ;- iss8: 2.* '   806        OAKERDGE. affected every thing else in the cavern, had left:the table and its contents entirely uninjured. We were surprised, that, of, the many who knew of the existence of the cave, no one. had had the temerity or the curiosity to enter it since the cap- ture of -Delaney., This we attributed, in part, to that superstitious -fear, which, more prevalent at that time than in these later days, made men shun a spot where a violent death -had taken place; and, in part, to the great difficulty of finding the path that led -to it, and which, on the land-side, was the only, avenue of approach. Edgar, the boy who had guided my- self and party to the spot nearly two years before, had been killed by- an accidental discharge of his fowling-piece, a short time after the trial of Delaney; so that his services were no longer available as a guide, had -any one sought to avail himself of them. As we hbad entered the cavern in the hope that something might be discovered that-would elucidate more fully: the mysterious events connected with -the.- abduction of Agnes, many of which 'had -never been satisfactorily explained, we commenced at once -a-thorough search, and,after a while, were rewarded :by finding an'ivory box, inlaid with silver, upon the lid of which was the monogram of Delaney.. The key, :fortunately, was inthe lock; and the box, upon being ,opened, was found to contain a package of papers carefully folded. We did not attempt to examine the, contents then, but, taking the box and prayer-book, left the cave, and returned as we had come, reaching the Hall just as the sun w'as disap-   OrbDGE.     - A30T pearing behind the hills that skirt the town to the" westward. Not caring to enter the house, we' seated ourselves on a rustic bench near the portico; and I again opened the box, and commenced an examina- tion of its contents. There was yet light enough to enable us to read -without difficulty; and we sat there, reading paper after paper, until the darkening twilight compelled us to forego further perusal. Among the- documents that we read was the letter which Agnes had sent to Delaney, refusing his offer of marriage; also copies of the correspondence be- tween him and the department of war, relative to the re-arrest of Sir Edward; the original letter sent to Agnes by Delaney, which she had returned to him unopened; and a diary, containing all his doings from the time of his leaving Newport, up to the very day of his arrest and incarceration. There was, also, the deed of the premises occupied by Sir EdwaTd, which, as before mentioned, were bought, by Dela- ney of Gen. Stone; and several other papers of interest, all more or less intimately connected with the pursuit and abduction of Agnes. It-is from the diary, that many of the facts detailed in the preced- ing pages were gleaned. I do not transcribe here either- of the papers, as they will be found in the same ivory box, in the- repository heretofore: spoken of, and can be read byyou, should curiosity lead you to do so.       a "So Delaney has been our landlord through all these months," said James, as we moved into the house.   808        OAKRIDGE. "It would seem so," I answered. "Evidently the hate that he feels for me does not extend to you and your father. I am surprised, however, that Gen. Stone has so long kept up the deception. You must learn from-hira-the reasbo; 1f0i he is an honor- able man, and would not, I am convinced, have done as he has done, without vsome iea6ie thiat he thinks a justification.- The rumbling of carriage-wheels was heard just then; and, a few minutes later, Sir Edward Lerpyd, %aecdzmpanied by Mr. Smith, Judge Radcliffe, and Alice,' entered the6drawing-room. It Was, of course, a pleasure t0 m e Mto meet my' guardian and :the Rad- cliffes aaiii; bt itI could not avoid the wish thiat their :calling hjad been deferred till the morrow. I cared tfor n companionshiip but that of James.' He  had pirotmised- t riemain: With me for :the night, and:I'had ?c6uhteM:i6& i6 h aviig: him to, myself. My loss hal iriadiie e Selfsh; and I 'was hot in the mood, :even for the he6'artftelt Sympathy -of the gkentile girl, who, I kniew, was nearer anddearer to James than all else theside,. andfrom whom:I was keeping him. -' - . :*"-'- .-',"*.  'i    CHAPTER XXVIII.- ' 1Ahme! for aught that ever r:i .uId read, , - Could ever hear by tale or history, The course of true love never did run smooth". -SH A KSPERARBE. ,As soon as Sir Edward was, informedi that .he house he was occupying belonged: to Delaney, he called upon Genm Stone for anI explnaton- of-, the matter. This the general gave, assigningas a reason for not communicating the facts at the -time, of the rescue, when ,the- identity of Delaney and Mulligan was established, that he thought: it greatty to. tie advantage of Sir Edward toretain the house:O the terms at Which he had leased it, and so, said nothing about it. Sir: Edward, however,:would nottcontinue to occupy the house, and, at. my solicitation4 con- sented to make Oakridge HallMhis temporary home:; and soon afterwards James and himselfwere domi- ciled with me. There, a year later, James Leroyd and Alice Radcliffe, your parents, were married. The twelvemonth that had intervened had been a busy one; and its daily demands upon my time and business-capacity tended towork in me the change that I needed. I became, after a while, more like my former self, and moved again among my ac- quaintances and friends, a man among men. Still I 809   310        OAKRIDGE. was not at any time quite content. There was-a constant longing for I knew not what: at least, I did nat dare to confess, even to myself, what- I some- times feared might be the occasion of it. The marriage of your parents, which took place on the first day of October, A D. 1794, was made an occasion for general rejoicing in the town. The house of Judge' Radcliffe having been just before partially destroyed by fire, it was arranged that the ceremony should be performed at the Hall. . Inez Radcliffe, whom I had not seen since my return from abroad, had yielded to the earnest desire of her sister, and promised to be present at the wedding, provided the consent of the mother superior could be obtained. At the request of Mrs. Radcliffe, this was granted, with the single condition' that' she should be accompanied, going and returning, by her father and mother, and by them alone. How dis- tindtly I 'recall my- first meeting with her again  Dressed in pure white, without an ornament of any kind, save a white rose worn in the hair, leaning on the arm of her father, she entered the drawing-room. / It was a half-hour or more before the time for the assembling of the guests. In my capacity of host, I had had a general supervision of the arrangements, and had' just before seated myself, that I might be ready to receive the guests as they arrived. Mrs. Radcliffe was to join me; and I was awaiting her coming. I believe, indeed I know, that Inez had no thought of finding me alone when she entered the room; but there was a moment's hesitation only, a   OAKRIDGBE         8" slight-flush, ia uick-step, two clasped hands, and I, knew that what Agnes had told me was true. "I know: not as I ought to talk with you, Oak- ridge,?' she said; " but I cannot forbear- saying how deeply:I have sympathized- with you since I knew .-of your loss. I have thoughts so much, too, -of your little boy, that I fear the- hope of, seeing: you and, him has more to do with my being ,here to-day than even the marriage of my sister. , I have so'longed to see your child!" she added with a sigh. "-I am glad, very glad,.to meet you again, Inez," I answered, " but speak not so sadly. Of course, you ought to talk with me. It would be strange, indeed, if, after a separation of two years, such friends as we have been should meet only to realize more sensibly how wide the. separation -is . You must forget; for the few hours that you remain with us, that there is such a place as the Convent of St. Agatha, and remember only that your coming here to-day fills, for a little while, one. of the places that the sad events of those two years have made va- cant."' "The Convent of St. Agatha is my home, and must remain so: I could not forget it, if I would; I would not, if I could," she answered. "Have you quite recovered from your illness?" she added, as if desirous to; change the subject. "How. did you know that I have been- ill?  It- was for a day or two only, and. but a slight indispo- sition," I replied. I had. no recollection of having mentioned the subject to any one. ^*i     -   *   -0312       OAKRIDGE. "I hardly know myself. Perhaps I dreamed it," she answered. At that moment Mrs.- Radcliffe entered the room. -She -was, as--I have already- intimated, a zealous Romanist; but she never allowed her zeal to lead her into -any thing like bigotry- or intolerance. I ap- pealed to her.  'Say to Inez, Mrs. Radcliffe, that she must be the joyful sister to-day, not the thoughtful novice. It will be time enough, when she returns to the convent, to put on sombre looks with her sombre garb. We must have, for this occasion, the light- hearted girl of two years ago." I tried to speak as if the subject were one in which I had an interest only in common with her mother and her other friends; as if, forsooth, in my character as host, I was only seeking to make every- thing pleasant for my guests: but- I could not pre- vent -the-feeling that was welling up within me from manifesting itself in my manner and my voice. ,' Levity would ill become her; and I would not that she should forget that she has elected to sepa- rate herself from the temptations and the vanities of the world:, but between levity and joyfulness there is a broad distinction. - To be joyful is both a privilege and a duty; and I should, be sorry to see that my daughter was not, in all things, fulfilling, her duty," said -her mother. "Did you ever know me to be otherwise than sad at a wedding, mother?" asked Inez. "At a fu- neral," she continued, "I never weep; for I -cannot   OAKRIDGE.          13--33 look iiito 'the paradise of God, and see'whether the occasion be one for tears o' smiles." ::; 'Why, then, -ibe sad at a wedding? Carn you any more :look into the future of a' wedded couple, alind know'what the' weddedd life is .to be, than y yor -a'can look into what -you' call the paradise ofa God?", I asked.  "I :havea known few   happy marriages  I have known many- happy deaths," she -answered. I was vexed with the girl. "-Her year in the coin- vent has-not improved her," I   sai-to myself. I Has she come here' to coldly furnish forth her sis ter's marriage-table with funeral baked -meats'?'" Thle guests were beginning   to arrive.  Inez, turning to me, asked if she might go anid bring the baby, who Alice had requested might be present -at the ceremony.            . "Certainly, fetch him if you likei"I answered-; and she left;the room. Hfollowed her with my. eyes till the door closed behind her. All my vexation was gone.   She had given me a look as she turned to go, that said as plainly as words could have-done, "' I know  what is passing in your mind.' iYou have no right to think unkindly of me."       -- A  few minutes later,- she returned withll my boy in - her arms, - There was no  lack of joy in her counte- nance then; and the child was clinging to her as it * might have clung to its mother.   How  tenderly and lovingly she clasped it, and obent over it; and fondled it! and how thoroughly contented and happy tfhe little one seemed! I could almost believe that -he 27 h  ,                    , .   Bt4        OARBIDGE. reiaized- that he' was :in the arms- of ,;heer, :-who, -his mother had chosen, 'should -fill her -place lin his heart. Again lT hade found that-what Agnes had told ime was true. I loved the girl; there could be-no -doubt of it:: -but at the same time some:thing told me -that -she could' never be--my wife,: In the midst- of the joy that. was about me, alone of all who participated in it, "my brow -was- -overclouded :. Inez had flashed into my life again only to sadden-it.   The 'eremony,-and the:congrtulattions were 'over The guests, one by one, were- taking: -their leave. Inez.-had :not failed to perceive that I was troubled, and came to me, after. a while, still holding the child in -her atms-. -Evidently she did not suspect the cause of my -sadness; for she said to: -me almost tenderly, ' "lThe marriage that has just taken place -recalls you-rown too viidly; and I wonder no t your sad: ness. ' But you have 'in -this beautiful child, if you will only realize it, a well-spring of happiness. ;I hav e been :told-that therelis no love so deep- and so abiding as ::that of- a father for his first-born' child. Sorrow may, for-a time, have clouded, your: vision; but -ou ,w ill, soo  n seei where, next- to God, the true source of your temporal happiness is to be found, and seek;ancdfind it here.".. -She: kissed the child' as she spoke, and held it towards me. As I bent. for- ward" -tor take -its, I :saidr- to' her,' almost .sternly, ; I maust, see you, Inez, elsewhere and -alone-. H harve a message from the dead .to deliver, and cannot do it --efe'J *   OAKRIDGE.        815 "A- --message- from- the dead? sie answered quickly.  Come:to me, then, at-the convent to-mor- row.' The" mother superior will alone be present at our interview.     - . Without-giving me time to reply, she moved away. The child began to cry. Inez stopped at the :sound, but, hesitating, for a moment only, resumed her way, and passed :out of" the room. I met her no more that day. "She has moved out of my life; but she is part and parcel of it forever," was the thought that remained with me. Hardly had the door closed behind her, when another door opened, and Mr. Dent,:who had not been present at the ceremony, entered the room. He advanced rapidly towards me, and said, ' I regret exceedingly, Mr. Oakridge, that professional duties prevented -me from being present earlier. I learned as I came in, that Inez- Miss Radcliffe, I mean- hasbeen here. -Can you tell me if she has -left the Hall-?" ' Hcannot tell you-; and I would not, if I could,"' answered. For the first time, jealousy. had' entered into me.- I hated him for. calling her ' Inez."  He looked at me, surprised, but said only, "Why not?"  "Lest you might follow and annoy her," I an- swered. ",Mr. Oakridge," he responded, " you may or may not know that Inez Radcliffe is very dear to me, : a-nd- that I regard ,her as lost to me, forever.: -Surely ; under such circumstances, you would not deprive me   / *         .   * , . of': a 'look, if. I can take it as-- hundreds: of oth6ers  have done this day.  I    -; shall- nelthei follow- nor- annoy her,'   --?--       - 'Judge Radcliffe and his wife ,had ,already bidden me; ';,good-by. ' - I knew that .-thei carriage" had been ordered,; nd; .that Inez had. left 'the- room- to- join. them- on: her Teturn'. to!. th-e conventi: The nurseL summoned. :by -,the; crying ..of.::-the -child, had- just: before Ttaken iit. Tbhe thotught. occurred to me, that I should-lifke. toi witness!a; meeting-- betwseen:: Inez, and- the-lawyer. - -From :the bay-window wlof:.. the' drawing. roomm I could see all that took: place.' I answered himn-theref-re,.. ... .  ^,I : think the- carriage that- isr to take: Miss Rad-. cliffe-away is already at the-door."' .He left -the roomat once; and, a minute afterwards; I [:Xawhimi :standing, with uncovered -head;-on- the - steps :'of- the :portico.- A .little later,' Inerz- and her paqents "appeared. The judge- stopped to speak vfith him",: Inez, :ith a-nod of rrecognition :'only,:passed on fithher motherm ad enterd enteredthe' 'carriage. The Judge soon joied .them, and they. drove ;away i -Mr.:, Dent, When, the carriage. had di-sappeared, returned to^;f't-rawi goom:" : '.:-:^;; ; -: .. fhe-.-" :. ', T- .': Hhavo desired-an .imnterview:with you, Mr. Oak',. ridge; iever sin-ce -youtl retuTn,' he d said, but-, ;he-si tated:- for months: to ';intrude -upon -your -sorrow-, and: lately -upon :;yout ti'me-- Y ;:You 'already; k'ow :.ithat Inez Radcliffe is ver-y deax to :mie.- t ihave. : ust said to0:yo--thath I ltook upon my hopes .as vaimn: altogether;-- ou:tay-not- know,:ihow eyer, hat -she^ .onc s-aid&:to    5   o-x, -,  ,Eoyon    8} g mn e,' :If, afte: myrsister's marriage,yoi; bring ,to .me- the: consent of -Henry ;OQakridge-to -my ;wedding with-  you, I will wed with you; but" - " ,When died:shhe- say) ,hat hIto .you "? ' I iinterrmptred :. You: were .travelling in lEurope then,' he- an, swered e- "It w'as at the .titme when:rinformation was sentP to you that- :Delaney had left ,the asylum.' Let me: continue, if you- pleasee-, without iinterruptione.^?- I no longer felt jealous-; bult with the- loss-of- that' feelingf came :the thought, that, :in onstitutingi my: self at. spy upon Inez and :him;: had prostituted, mF Imaniness*. I began to hate myself.: ;Another link: of the chain that was to bind me had beeniforged; but: ther6e w asitsti}i-manliness enough -left-in me et; appreo ciate manliness in another.-' Even; now -I congrtf-  late -myself.-that-I!.could say -o thim,'as ', didM, -; -You are worthier of her. than I! am.- . Would- God- she' had married-you wen:-the th thought- was 'in---her- heart!: ' -  -        ' : He reached out- hiss hand ., ;:--We; understand each other now," hie said :asI J :took it." I, thave?bu t. -, word more-to :say;" Continue," I responded t - - -  "Until to-day I have met Miss-Rkadc-liffebut .-once- since": she told me - that- my- hopes :of- making herl my wi-fewere dependent upon--your consent., This. eon, dition would have seemed -an ;unacountable 'on e- to. me,- had she not, with: a-' frankness which --madeo me: love her the more, I believe, told :me that .she had- given, to -you her love in its fulness, and would wed- with no one,until you, by consenting to -her marry- 27*   3818       OAKERIDGE. ing another, should thereby deprive her of the right of longer loving you. I should say to you that Inez added that she did not believe that I could obtain your consent. I hardly dare to express the hope that I may. I should say, also, that I think her promise, qualified as- it was, was the offspring of gratitude, rather than of affection. But- I cherish the hope, that, should you give me the consent, she would to-day, remembering her --promise, leave the Convent of St. Agatha, and not unwillingly become my wife. That she esteems me, I know ; that, after a while, she Would learn to love me, I will not'doubt. I have sought this interview that I might ask of you the. consent, without which all my hopes are vain." In the light of his manliness, mine returned to me. I told him all the past, going back :to my boyhood; the present, as the day had disclosed it to me; the future, as- I hoped it might be. ' "Your claims are stronger than mine,", he said as I closed. ,' She will be happier with you than with me. Seek her, and God bless you both!"   CHAPTER XXIXO CT .       wor. - - o-i, we w ill w1 alk this world, -Yoked in all exerciseiof noble end, -And so through those darlrk gates :cross thewild That no. man knows. ; Indeed, I love thee:, come." TENNYSON. - ON the imorrowJ I met Inez Radeliffe... -It was- a strange. fancy,' perhaps, that led-me .to dismount from my horse- a half-mile or more -from the convent-gate, -and proceed: the rest of the -way on foot.- I knew the -approaches: well, -and, instead --of- goingfhby the trav- elled ,road, followed ae pa th through:the grove-that bordered the convent-grounds.:; This path, familiar -to me, led directly to- the -church. -.Itw was- nOt -with the haste of an ardent lover that I proceeded along it. My heart w'&as -he^vy witlh the fear, that: had -all along oppressed it; and I walked as a man to his doom. It was in vain that I tried to shake off the feeling. Something in the air seemed to whisper, "She will never be thy wife." The murmuring trees echoed it; the song-birds in the grove chanted it. "Never, never, never!" came to my ears, a thousand time repeated, from air and tree and bird. A few rods from the church, on the border of the forest, I sat down on the trunk of a fallen tree, and looked towards the gloomy building that was Inez' ,si9   820        OAERIDGE. prison-house. "So near, and yet so far," I said to myself. "So far," murmured the trees, as if in echo: to my thoughts. I was afraid to take up my purpose, and walk. "Why pursue a phantom? Why-add to the burden the- straw -that must break the camel's back?"I saidi:aloud, as I satthere on the fallen tree. "Back " came to me the echo from the, air and the oaks. . I buried my head in hmy hands.!- I had neither the power tp advance nor recede: and so I satthere;, I know -not howtlong; but it must have been for hours. A touch aroused me. I looked up;-and Inez Rad- cliffe, clad mdeepest blackj relieved onlyh by a rosary of .white beads with a silzver across'attached, ;stood before me. .       ; "I1 was watching fo r you," she said^ "I knew you would come by the, familiar: path, and, from my wipndow. in the convent, saw Dyou, when you, came throipgh the, grove,: and, seated yourself. where -you aned. I jhave, sometimes. sat together.- I Aknew w what was passing :.i your mind:;. b utt seeing :yonu sit. so long, apparently unconscious, 1f feared you- might be ill, :-and. could not but come to you. .You are noti ill. Th --me, therefore,smy friend, Why you have hesitated' so long to come to me?        . .......... I had risen while she spoke; and now my only answer was to 'stretch out my arms,' and say, "Come to ;we, Inez!. Come to me^.anid givme me alittle, just; a, little, of .th .oy that I have hoped to have inits fuiness,"  ; ... I;Q-u-,see, -could not-. fi to,see, I could nottha:t the :first impulsep-of her heast was to grantmy prayer.: There, I9      PV .  Y   was a half-step 'forward, arms half outstretched, and a look in her face that was-all outstretched-; :buit as suddenly the! half-step became no step, the arms dr'opped: only the look remained. :   *  - -?;, I cannot now. come to -you, -Oakridge, in the wayr that you wis shshe said; ' but youi will come with me."  .f . -  -   -       - i. She. held out her hand. :I took it, and she led me out beyond the convent-grounds, over a roughl but well-defined path, till-we came to "the Beautiful Hill," as it was called, and paused not and Spoke, not till we stood: on its highest point. I waited' for her to speak. I had not spoken since: she'took my hand. I had no desire to speak while her- hand was in mine, and knew, as well as if she had-told me, that, while she held it, she did not wish meto -speak. T:- The hill to which she had led -me was well called - "the Beautiful Hill." The - summit' of -it -was a rounded flat. I had been to the same spot with- Inez years before; but- we were not alone then. 1 "I have brought you here,- Oakridge," -she said, dropping my hand, "because it seemed to me that- e e might look upon. this spot, shut- in, as it is, by trees clad in 'Foliage rich with some autumnal tint,' and carpeted with verdure that 'is ever green, as- a: paradise- for -us,- where, undisturbed by; thoughts dis- connected with ourselves, we may rest for the mo-. ment, forgetting the busy cares - and bitter troubles of the world outside of us. . But, 0' my friend:!?' she"   822        OAKRIDGE. added," say not to me, to-day, what I know is ill your heart and on your tongue. A year hence, if the longing' still remain, come to me at the 'convent, and I will tell you then,- whether, for your sake, I will leave its sacred walls. Give to me here'only 'the message from the dead' of which you spoke; and then let' usgo. The mother superior will wonder and be alarmed at my absence. It was only in her presence,:as you know, that our meeting was to take place."- f told' her of what Agnes had said to me, as it were, with her dyinghreath; how she had made me promise to seek her, and ask her to be a mother to our child; how her words had opened m'iy eyes, and -- shown me my heart. 'I' have loved you, Inez," I said to her, cloSing the sad story, "since that May- day morning of which you spoke to me two years ago. What Agnes said to me was only too true. To' you alone have I given my love in its fulness: to you alone can I ever give it. Sayto me once more what you said to me two years ago, and let me take you to myself." "Could I recall what I said to you two years ago, I might;:listen to'you now," she answered. "I told you then," she added in a hurried, impassioned manner, "that I  lovedyou, and should continue to do so as long as I lived. What I said was true then: it is true now. But I know, Henry Oakridge, that such a declaration on my part must have seemed to you unmaidenly then; it must seem strange to you now. You can never forget it, if you Would. Had I believed   OAKRIDGE.        323 that you did not then know your own mind; }had I thought-, as now I know, that "our, lives were insepa- rably connected, that deep in your heart was the l'ovefor'me that you have now confessed,-- love as absorbing and as true as that which was burning in iy heart for you,--that declaation would never have been:made. A[2fterwards I saw it all. - It was for this reason that I asked you, before your marriage, if you were sure Jthat your love for Agnes could ]know no change. Oh, how I longed that you:might see yourL- self as I saw you! that you 1 might look; way down into the depths of your heart, and- realie that Inez Radcliffe, and not Agnes' Leroyd was thie one you should ohoose foryour wife. 'I would not say to you then,:t at it was the peculiar surroundings, the romantic Circumstances of your coming-to2ether, the beautiful face, the charming-manners, the tr"ue love of Agnes Leroyd, that was blinding you. But I knew it, Oakridge. i knew that your strange con- duct anda subsequbent illness was not' in consequence: of thedaea-th of: Manfred -: Deelafey, or :of any 1thing connected with Agnes Leroyd, but that it-was occa- 'A b",  i  n   1'     e, ing X*, of d r sioned by an undefined longing, a'feeling of dis- sftisfa-ction, a nown-aid-- then thought of me, - of me; who loved you, and whom you ioved, though you, knew it ;not. Thaniik od, 'hav your love at last!  t was, as Agnes said, for -your sake that I entered, yonder con vent:it is fo'r your sale ihat I ;ill remain there le- H&eefter,your love is mine, as mine: is yours. Tdmayyou:wooUd be to oe it. :So Iteel6 now. Ay ic, it e maye tlat I shall Iook upon it in a A"!"Year-hei bililb" ffiaHh11-16 itcin   824        OA1BRIDGE.- different. light. A year hence, you will comee to me. In' the mean time, but-twenty miles divide us. I will try and be a mother to your child ; but for the pres- ent it must be from the Convent of- St. Agathad, not in the' house of his father.-" "You say that you love me, Inez: is it true?" I asked. "It is true," she-answered, " so ttue, that morn- ing and evening, and all through the day, I pray to God for forgiveness that my thoughts -are more on you than on him." ' Do you believe, as you have said, that I love you?"I asked. "I know it," she answered. "I begged of you not to speak of what was in the hearts and on the tongues of both of us.; for the thought was with me that husband and wife we may never be: but always hereafter there will be no niche fin your heart or in mine for a stranger's form to fill." "You confess," I said to her' in a tone of voice which I tried to make unimpassioned,. " that you love me. -You admit that you know that I love you. You have said that you will be a mother to mychild; and yet you add, that husband and wife we may never be. What mean you?" "Only this, my friend," she- answered, ;that I would retain your love, not lose it. You have at last discovered what H knew long ago. Coming to you as it does, after years of unconsciousness, and months -6 of :suffering, the knowledge brings with it (is it not so?) only an added weight of sorrow. Confess to me, *        .   .    OAKRIDGE.         325 Oakridge, that something tells you that I am right in not -giing way to that strange passion which men call love, but which has come to ]Se with me something higher and better than love as men under- stand it. The past two years have not been barren of fruits;, and, though bitter to the taste, there-was healing in them. In a word, I love you too much to become your wife, feeling, as I do, that to marry you would be to lose your love in its fulness. In the Convent of St. Agatha, I shall be to you, as it were, enshrined. Your thoughts, in spite of your- self, will be with me there; -and, your love, freed by and by from desire, will rest in the thought of what may be reserved for us- in the great hereafter; and; becoming reconciled to a separationSwhich is only for a time, we shall both look forward- to, a union which shall be complete and eternal. In a love such as mine, I would have nothing which is ' of the earth, earthy,' enter." "You care not, -then, for my happiness," I answered ' her. "It is nothing to you, that, without you, life must be to -me sunless and hopeless. If your love for me were what you say it is, it would not -find voice in such cruel words. Better a dagger in. the heart that kills, than words that wound beyond healing." "A year from to-day I will meet you at the con- vent. You will know then, -vhether I love you or not. I shall know then, whether I have acted wisely or not this day. Come, let us go," she said, holding put her hand. 28   ,'826       OAERIGE. Itook it, and drew her towards ;me. Hn spite of the disappointment-that I felt at the words she ;la uttered, I could not resist the opportunity.' I folded her'-in my arms, and for a moment held' her in a close embrace.   I covered her face with I kisses, and pleaded With her to consent to become my wife. But, though she suffered the embrace, she was firm in her deter- mi-nation." -A year -hence I will answer you,' she said, freeing herself ;' now let us go." "You must answer me now," I responded. "A year hence, your novitiate will have ended: after that, it will be too late-." ".I will prolonig the time of my-novitiate," she answered.  "Urge me: no further, but come with me.'? l I said no more, but went with her to the convent- gate,. and -would have left her there; but she said to me, ': No: -the mother superior must see you. I told hersthat you were :coming to-day, and must confess 'to ther, in youir presence; howAindutiful I have been in violating the conVent-rules by thus wandering off wi-th yOu.; how' sinful, in forgetting ;for the time that I  am no longer free to act as I would."  Sh6e then :turned towards me-- and, placing her hands on my houlders, said, "Heniiry Oakridge, my love for you is more than love: it is- devotiohn.- I am not so strong, as I thought I -was, for I have suffered you to do this day what weeks of- penance can hardly expi- ate,; ,:and: yet- I cannot think it altogether wrong. But I must confess it to the mother superior; and I would: do so in- your presence: otherwise I carry a ol'd oin             "Cn       OAKRIDGE.        3827 secret in my bosom which will make me unhappy through all the year that is to try us. You will come with me, will you not?" "Yes, Inez," I answered: "you know I will go with you whither you will. Oh that you would let me prove to you that the promised devotion of Ruth to Boaz would not equal mine to you, could I only be permitted to show it H Do you know that I some- times wish that your religion were mine, that I, too, when I feel that I have- not been true to myself, might have some sympathetic human breast on which to lean, and confess my shortcomings1 I want no priest, I want to mother superior, I want only you. But Hoften feel that the burden of smin, which all must carry, can but be lightened by the conscious- ness that another, in the knowledge of it, if worthy of the confidence reposed, must ever be seeking -to lighten it. Qh, my darling! be to me that sympa- thizing friend! Let me feel that into your ears- I may breathe such confessions, sure of that sympathy and encouragment, without which, I fear, my unaided efforts towards a better life must- be unavailing. Together, it seems to me that we might go through life, soothing, sustaining, cheering each other, while at the same time we scatter blessings, the- blessings of Christian charity, all about us. Can:you imagine any greater joy than to feel that the widow and the fatherless mingle your name in their prayers of thanksgiving, while, at the same time, you keep yourself unspotted from the world?" "I would that my religion were yours I " she an- .,   8[28       OAKRIDGE.' swered; ",but Holy Church, let her enemies say what they will, is no -' net of proselytes.' - The life you picture would indeed be a blessed one ; -and what you have just said to me moves me mote -than I may tell you. But I cannot- now answer you - otherwise than I have.-: A year hence- but no! I will hold out no hopes to you or to myself. Say no -more, but come with me, I beg of you." And so I went with her through the grounds, and up the broad steps, and into the convent. The mother superior met us at the door, -a mild, smooth- faced .woman of fifty, with a look of beneficence lighting her countenance, and the air of a saint all about her.    - , Where have you been, my daughter?" she- asked of Inez. ".To- the Beautiful Hill,' she answered. "Is your -companion the gentleman who you told me was to meet. you --in my presence 'to-day?" "4 The, same." "Did he accompany you to the Beautiful Hill?" 6' He did.," -Child I -what have you done?" said the mother. :"He has: come with me, that we may tell you all," she -answered.. We entered the little room where the mother superior was accustomed to receive:visitors; and Inezv told her all that had taken place between -us, omit- ting nothings, not even- the embrace. "What is done cannot bhe undone; but do you think you do right," she said to me, after Inez had    .  .    OAKRIDGE;       '  829 concluded,-" in thus entering again into the life- of one who seeks -to withdraw herself from the world and- its temptations, -and to become the spouse-of Christ her Saviour? Are you not placing stumbling- blocks in the way of her progress towards holiness? Are you not doing one whom you profess. to love a wrong that,. it may be, an eternity of regret cannot right? Leave her, and carry home with you the thought, -that, if your love- for her is not altogether selfish, you can best show it by seeking to secure her eternal rather than her temporal happiness. Think of: her as advancing day by day, slowly, but sul:ely, towards that better life where love of God, not love of man, reigns supreme, and where eternal joy is the reward for faithfulness in time, -and especially-so, when to be faithful to the end requires constant self,; abnegation. Show your love for her by-leaving' her, not for a year, but for all your years; -show your love for her by praying for her that she may be strengthi- ened in her endeavors to- forget the world: and you;  show your love for her -by striving. to become, like her, a follower of the meek and lowly Jesus, that so, in the world that is to be, you maynot be separated, as you must ever be in this. Besides,"' she added, "Holy Church does not permit her daughters to wed with those of a different faith, -Were there no other objection, this:-would be-insuperable." .- ' Madam,"', I said to her,      ' you ask of me an: impossibility. I will- leave Miss Radcliffe, for shh commands me to do so; but it will be for a time only. My, wife she' may never be; but -mywife shewi:llbe, 28*   380.        OAKRIDGE. if true to herself, for she will then be -true to me. I regret the difference of faith of which you- speak, and have said to her, that I sometimes wish her reli-. gion were mine: but, just now, the only faith I care to, have is faith in her; the only faith I demand on her partis faith in me. - Farewell, for a year," I added, turning to Inez; and, with a bow to the mother supe- rior that I meant should be a gracious one, I left the. room, and mademy way out of the convent-grounds, and by the travelled road, to the place where I had hitched my horse. Mounting, Ii rode rapidly home- wards, not once drawing rein till I reached the lodge- gate of the Hall. I will not attempt to describe my feelings in view of what seemed to me the strange inconsistency of Inez. The more I reflected upon what had taken place, the more convinced I became, that she could not and would not change her purpose; and I inwardly' resolved that I would devote the year to unriveting the chains. "When I meet her again, I  will shake off the shackles, and leave them at her feet," I said to myself: "perhaps, when too late, she may regret making such a fool of herself and of me." I was as good as my word so far as the effort to do what I had promised myself to do was concerned. I plunged into all sorts of dissipation, and made vice my mistress.  Wawenock, at that time, had all the facilities for a young man's ruining himself, if he saw fit to do so; and I shortly set about availing myself of them.' It seems to me now, as if, during that twelvemonth, all the baser passions of my being   OAKRIDGE.        8381 were called into the most active play; and but for the teachings of my-guardian, the thought of my- mother, and the silent rebuke of an infant's smile. I shoutld have become lost, I believe, to all self-respect, and indifferent to the opinions of others, even those nearest- and dearest to me.- As it was, I had only enough'-of reason left -in--me to do what I did- in the- privacy of my own: house. P.  -.   CHAPTER XXX. 'If she will, she -ill, you may depend nt; And, if she wonWt, she won't; so thpre!s an end on't.- A NONYMOUS. THEn year passed away,and I found myself once more at the Convent of St. Agatha. I had -heard nothing from Inez since I had bidden her ,c farewell" a twelvemonth' before. So determined had I been 'that the day of our meeting again should find me 'disinthralled, that I had avoided making any inqui- ries of her family, or seeking in any way to learn aught; c0ncerning her. It was invain, however, that I tried to blot out the remembrance; and though, through the year, I had become morose and misan- thropical, selfish and cynical, my love for Inez, in- stead of weakening, had grown stronger day by day I And,asI rode along, my mind dwelt con- stantly on the interview we had had, and the one that was about, to take place; and, in spite of all efforts to the contrary, I continually pictured to my- self scenes of domestic happiness in which she was the centralYfigure ; and I found, that instead of unriv- eting the chains, ats' I had promised myself, I was more a slave than ever. All my hope centred in her: deprived of her presence, I could see nothing in the -futurethut the blackness of darknesse., 332 efforts to the contrary, I continually pictured to uly-.   OAKRIDGE.        33 It was in this frame of mind, that, just at sunset, I rode up to the convent-gate, I expected that Inez would come forth to meet me; and in this I was not disappointed. She had changed in no respect, save that I could see in her face a look of holy resigna- tion, which I knew to be fatal to my hopes. We entered the convent. together. . "The mother- superior: has consented that our interview be private," she said to me. "Is it because you have told her that it shall be our last?"I asked, "( Yes, Henry," she answered; ' and now listen to me while I show you that it is better so." I buried my face in my hands, and said not a word. I was not disappointed; for I had anticipated it. I was crushed: that was all. "Yes, Henry," she repeated, " this, meeting must be our last. It has not been without a bitter strug- gle, so bitter that words may not express it, that I have brought my mind to a determination so fatal to your hopes, and, I will add, to mine. , But I have -no doubt of the wisdom of the conclusion-to which m-my mind has come; nor have I any doubt, that, after a little while (a very little while, it may be),you,: too, -will see that- it is for the happiness of .both -of- us that we part. So firm in my mind is the conviction, that, for reasons which you well understand, I should lose your love by becoming -your wife, that, were there no other reasons moving me, that alone would be, as it ought to be, sufficient. But there are other reasons, which, though not perhaps. of themselves thwgh no,prq  h-ms   234        OAXRmDGE. weighty enough to have overcome the promptings of my heart, are, when thrown into the scale of- duty- weighty enough to turn it. H need mention but one of these, my own impetuous nature. As your wife, I shiould be exacting, capricious, jealous. A chance word, a look, a liftle behind time in coming back to me,-- aye, the merest - nothing, - would- be all,- sufficient- to make both our lives wretched.- I should watch you, as you played with your child, and be unhappy in the fear that he was nearer to your heart than I was. If a child should be born to us, the thought that your love for your first-born (Agnes's child) was greater than your love for our first-born (my child) would be agony to me. I should abe, in a word, under any circumstances, sim- ply wretched, and make you so. Instead of a loving, trusting, dutiful, anrid happy wife, you would find yourself wedded to a- shrew that you could n6t tame, and who could not: tame herself; loving,- but, in spite of herself, -distrustfiil,and, because distrustful, undutiful and unhappy. And besides and beyond all this, Oakridge, God" ,only knows to what extent my -unfortunate disposition might' lead 'me. "Do you remember what I said to you would happen to Agnesi should she' fail to make you a loving, true, anid faithful wife? I believe, that in the event that I, have foreshadowed, of -your loving Agnes's child better than mine, I could- not resist the temptations which would be ever before me, to put out of the way the child that had robbed mine- of what I should think his birthright. After 'such ,an :'acknowledg think 'his Mr            k   OAKRIDGE         3835 ment, would Syon marry me, Oakridge? You -ought not to do soi:if you would; Not your -wife, not the mother: f a child of my own, I can be your promised wife forever, and, as such, be a faithful; mother to your child ;, and Agnes's wishes will be met. You will let him cometo: me by and by; and here I -can take. him to myself, and. keep- him- to myself, and, loving him-- for your. sake and for hisown sake, -can teach. him what .I know, and return him -to your.: taught, at least, to love the God who made him- and the father-who -begot him, and to reverence and seek after the good, find it where he will.' She paused, as -if expecting.. me to reply; but I said nothing ..  , -You do not answer me,"-she-continued. "Must, I go further, and say to you, what-I did not:mean to say, that there is selfishness in my refusal to be- your, wife,? I have said to you, -that I believe to marry you would be, to lose your love : I say to you -now, that the conviction is no less- strong wyith me, that to refuse to marry you will be to keep yourslove; -and your love I must keep, or die. When you leave me to-day, -unconvinced: it may be, angry it may be, you will carry home with you the knowledge: that here, self-isolated from, the world, imxmured :for,:your sake in, a convent, is one who loves you with all her  heart and soul and mind, - such love as our blessed Lord asks sinful man to give to his God. I tell you now that not a day will pass, so long as I shall live, in which my thoughts will not -turn to you;, and no. prayer will ascend to the throne of-grace from theo i I    X   ;336       OAKRIDGE. lips -that now -speak td you, without invoking a blessing on youand yours. I know that you cannot rid yourself of that knowledge, and the thoughts that it must bring to you, if you would. And by and by you will come to understand' and to 'feel, that, outside of your' child '(our child, let me call it), there is no place in your heart for any other earthly :lover than mine, and be happier in the satisfaction that it will bring to you than you could ever be if I were your wife; and H shall be happy in the belief that I have your love, and can never lose it.. And I feel that the Father of all will paridon- me, nun though I be, for cherishing this love of yours, which is mine, and- to be mine in time and beyond time, and not condemn me for praying that you may cher- ish this love of mine, which is yours, andlto be yours forever." . .  S She paused again, I had not lifted my head from my hands all the while she was speaking. "Will you- not" speak to me?" 9she said after a little: while. '4 Can you be angry with me, Oak- ridge, when I am seeking-guided byea year of prayerful consideration, struggling with inclination, and- warring against miy great love for you -to do what I believe to be for the happiness of both of us?" -a Speak to -you!"I answered, raising my head. " Why should I speak to you? 'What remains to me but to go?  Can any argument, any protesta- tions, any promises ofw mine, change your purpose?" -"No,'? she answered. " I -have borne a heavy cross for the last twelve months - but it is no longer    OAKR-IDGE.        7337 heavy. Even your want of sympathy adds :nothing- to the weight. . If I did not- know you so well: as; I do, such -want of sympathy might lighten it, if it were any longer heavy. Be yourself, my friend, and let your better self reply.", "Have you given me all your reasons for refusing to be my wife?"Iasked.  "Yes," she answered. "But I -ought- to sayto you, perhaps, that there happened, while you were in Europe, many things which more or less influ- enced me, and finally led to my entering this con- vent. I care not to speak of them, ,but will do so, if you tell me that I must." ..  "It was not for my sake, then, that you entered the convent?"I said. ' "It was for your sake, and only for your sake, that I entered it: it is for your sake, and only for your sake, that I have hitherto continued an inmate : it is for'your sake, and only for your -sake, that- I shall make it my home for life. Are'you satisfied?" "You know nothing, then, of my past year's life?" I asked. "Nothing," she answered. "At my request, your, name has been a forbidden word inside these walls since I parted from you a year ago.'-' "Then it is not because I plunged into excesses, forgetting my duty to --God, to myself, and to you, that you cast me off?" "Cast you off " she answered. "I cast you off! .- I who love you, - I who esteem you, -I who look forward to an eternity of -happiness with. you, en-. -,  ' '29 :.   9     ;OAofiRGt-.r-E. hanceed" a^ thousand-fold, it may be: because denied to us in time! :Ido notunriderstahndyou.' :; '- :' "'You -shall understand me,; then;,' I saidd. : And I told her the story-of my life since' I had, parted from her twelve months before. I ,gave every thing ini its -truest colors;: and - asked- her, as :I cl'osed, if she cared to consign- me -again to- such- a life.... - .": What you have told t -me,' she answered, " as to your conviction' that I could never be your wife, onl i shows me: that to- both -of -us has come the'same reve-- lation.- - What you have said in, laying bare# to a me^ your life for the year that has passed, sad as'the story is, convinces me: that I am -right in believing, that;, while ,th'e-happiness of each of us 'depends upon'the other, it can only be secured by following the course that I: have- suggested. You will not again  be guilty of-'suchl excesses. It would have -been better, perhafps, ;had 1 followed the dictates of-my reason a: year ago, :and isaid to you then, what I haved said to you to-day; but I have no- fears for your future. You' have- dione wrong, great wrong, to yourself, only to: yourself; but there is enough of life left to youii-to redeem;itall; Pray God -for perfect: faith in himi,that youi flmay;hav e strength: to: ov'ercome your- self, and that'- the years: wtii h, in his providence, may be left to youimay be freed from what tends to remove; :you, day. by day, fartier antd fartherr from Him in whose- image you were - created;:. Strive-to malke--your life: hily : t least, let it be; free from thosevices; indulgence in whIiCch, ulmihating in loss of self4-espeet, -makes oflife: a cuse,: instead of :the blessing the good Giver meant it should be."   OAK-RIDGE. &B9 oAgarOE. ,        I:9 -' -What :is.-and has been my life?"I answered her". "It was not of my volition that I entered upon it: it is not of my- volition that I endure, it. A creature - that is all-I am. -And- shall I, a creature,/look loving- ly to my Creator, when I hate in myself' his crea- tion? Shall-I kneel down morning-.and evening,. and breathe  ut -prayers of thanksgiving- to- him, when nota jot- of thankfulness can mingle with the matins or -the vespers?- -Shall I thank -God for exist- ence, when the -wish- is ever present that- I had never existed.? - Shall I believe that'there is another and a better world, to which FAITH one, day will lead me, when I -find myself, in spite of myself -in a-world' where I would-give worlds, -if I had:them to -give,-if - I had never-existed? ' In- the image of- God created he- him,'-- - Aln- I the image of- God-? God forbid I Could I ever have been the image -of God,? God: knows. - That I am not the image of G-od, H- kunow. The6logians tell us, that it is man's destiny to do God's will. If -that be so, can it be my fault that I do not fulfil what was :meant- to be my destiny?: I say, No! thrice and four -times, no I Are passions: God-implanted?  If yes, am I responsible',if they lead, -me - astray?: If- -not God-implanted, - whence- came they? O ye philosophers! -0 ye priests!- O ye scribes and Pharisees! O ye expoundersI O- al- that rail at human :frailty, and talk of the :time -of- probation, and of -the -glorious t'ings:, that :are to, come in, the: great hereafter, of-which you knnow- absolutely nothing! AAm I, a-worm, a, moth, a -no,- body!and a :a nothing, with :only one aspiration,p and   840'        OAKRIDB.1 that" to do' unto others as I would they'should do unto me,-am I, I say, to be c0ndemhed, and after a' life of such utter wretchedness thatt'the sufferings of  the mythologic- -Tantalus and -Syslphus - and Prome-: theus, et id enu's bmne cohibinedl, would be- a heaven to:.iot,go to .my.'rest, cea;s-e from -my earthly tro'u- bles, and, awake to find them-a million; million :times" multiplied! l:' 1I don't- -believe it. ' I can't 'believe it. It ' were:- worse.---than- blasphemy., to 'enterta-in - the' thbught.-:- There is -but one worse, miorefearful' thought,- that of annihilation. Better: an eternity' of- woe thrainto quoench the longing-after: and the pos- sibilities of immortality!"          :' I had spoken in an impetuous, half-wild manner. Inez' refuisal to be my wife had maddened me.- ".'You "frighten me, Oakridge,": said:Inez ;:: ;,and: yet -it seems to me at times that-you: are most your-: self when not yourself. Give- me:-your arm, and- " let us walk for:a-Iittle.-' The niglit-air will :bring: you l;ack to reality:. the C-hillines of it will do you good?' ' -- .But it may do you harm,' -I answered. "o:Yet: I nke the night."o t;   -  - ,s  - ;'As I canme. inJI .had thrown my surtcut. over the: arni& of the sofa. Inezpassed it -to 8 me a, nd: H-put; it, on:..- mechanically. -Thr-owing- a: shawl ov'er her: shoulders, she took ,my thand, as- though TI-- were, a child ; and ;we wentt- down the, steps together L- Inten- tionally, I .thi n k, she led me towards " the. Beautiful::: Hill.'-' The night was perfect; and slowlyr wei:weinded- otr: way .till we stood upow the suiimmit, where- we had stood a twdelremionihth -before.: .: I had said strage.   RIME. OAKRmBG         8;' t hings to her as we walked along. I had wondered' how -God could have pronoun ced-his reatio-n- -'good," - and ,had denied. that:;there :was any thing ,beautiful, good, or true -in the: world. : ," No, no!"I said, as we stopped, " in, view of my life-. for the past four years, God's ' good ' seems all - bad '; to me.; and ,the beautiful' exists'not, saye in the imagination." "Look at the little of, God's creation: that you behold, from; here, and ,tell .me if it- is -not:., good-,'" she said, stretching out her. hand, and pointing to' the -valley below, .  - t I looked ; and: in thet look a calm, like tha/t which-: rested on all I saw, came over me.  - I -bowed my- head, and could have wept.. : .-     ;  , Look .now at me, .my friend," and, .:ith. an up-r: ward movement-of her hand, she threw froim' .her head, the .hat- that rested onl it, '-and say if -Goids creatures are not '-beautiful."' .  Again I looked. Wbhat were Burke's raptures .on the-Queen of. France:!- She- glittered like :the morn- ing star. He - worshipped- -from :a :distance. But before me, in the moonlight, stood the -evening star,  the queen of, night, beautiful beyond compare: ;'not an angel, but a mortal, yet the:quen -of night..- The. moonlight threw, a:- halo round he:r head;. I., could have fallen down atnd- worshipped hier. :- - '  "- Ileave you now-: -you will ;come with me or not, as you.:wist," 'she:.said, and,- tmrning, slowly :de-: seended- the hill       ^     -  - -I watched- her for a moment; and the long,.,pentr,  29*   842        OAKRIDGE. She turned, and ascended a;s slowly as -she had descended, and was again at my side. b' Don't leave: me," I whispered. "I thought as you moved aHway that my identity was going-with you. It was my other self, my better self; that was leaving me. My cry was a recall. O Inkz! my own, my:al, save me. from myself!    : ,"Come, let us go," she answered.- What we would may never be. - To-morrow I become the bride of Heaven. But remember, Oakridge, that, though separated in this, world by a barrier thicker and- harder than ai -adamantine Wall, in that other world to which FAITH, one day will lead you, -our soulsshall mingle, and the sorrows and disappoint- ments of time will but have made us both the better prepared to enjoy the rest and the rapture. of eternity.' If itwere not a sin, dear friend, I could place my hand in yours this night, and say, ' Lead ;me whither you will. I am yours in time, as I shall be yoursin eternity. Perhaps, could I have fore- seen events, I might have been yours in time; but now it cannot be. I leave you to-night, and we must never in this world meet -again. Promise not to speak to me again, and never to seek me. My hope is, that our lives, flowing along in the pure channel of duty performed on your part and on mine, may not again be ruffled by the breezes of disappointment or discontent. Heaven is not a long way off. We shall :meet there. But it cannot be wrong, if here and now, under the holy light of yonder moon, I give and ask a God-be-with-you kiss. Your forehead, Henry."   \ 843 ,OAKBIDGEf.  IbOwed my; head ; and saying, "God bless you always!" she touched my brow   with her lips. I touched hers with mine, and hand in hand we de- -sccnded the*hill, We spokenot; for speech would :have beemn a mockery, : I left, her at the convent- gate, and have never met her since. She lives, I know, and for years has been :the mother superior of ,the' Convent of St i Agatha. Thrice has she ::Written to me; but with those exceptions, through all these: years, she has been- as if dead. to me, save that she has lived in my thoughts always, and win live there tillI die. Ithelieve I have, loved:her all my life. .   CHAPTER ;XxxT.- A1 : perfect woman, nobly planned." WORDSWOTH. ;3 , } WORTH., A cA give yu in a page the twelve succeeding years. of my life. They were made up of activity and of love, a;ctivty:in my business, love of my boy. The. womanwhom   - Agnes. had ,engaged to accom- pany US from England ,.was .all -I -could ' wish as a watch over and a nurse to my child. I felt, when I went day by day-to my business, that I haJ d left behind .me, a faithful servant, who would not, for a moment, lose sight of my loved one; and, feeling so, my ,w ork was, done without apprehensions that might o- therwise have. ,made my business-life a -burden..: I bad laid up inmy heart- y love of Inez, manebat in altd m ate repostus, and was content with my lot. And so the years went by, till my little boy: 'had grown out of: his littleness, and his childhood had grown out of its childishness, and the time of :ponies and boats and tut-ors had- come, and -my child was a boy, -a boy in all the fulness. of the term, bright, healthy, active, free, -a aboy without an ailment, and, to' myeyes, witout- a. fault,.-a '-large, strong boy, with iron. in his bloo d,and the glowof health and the. flus4h of beautty on his cheeks, with a :chest that bade' defiance. to disease, and: a heart that was loving altogether; and he loved his father, and his father.   OAKRIDGE.        845 worshipped him: and so we lived along, and loved along, and were happy. Mysterious little packets came from time to time to the Hall, brought by messengers who gave no names, and left no word,- - warm socks beautifully kiitted,'riding-jackets beau- tifully embroidered,books of travel imported from England, and biographies of the good and'great, calculated to captivate the growing imagination and fancies of such a boy, and to lead him in the way he should go. They were the gifts of Inez. And the father added, year by year, to his riches,;and the boy, year by year, to his better wealth 'of knowl- edge; and I watched him with pride.  He was "duce deeus meum." All my. ambition centred in him. I lived in him and for him. It did not occur to me that Death would dare to measure swords with such a love as mine. I buried out of -sight the bitter past, and lived only in the present and the future ouf my boy. And so I lived, happy in my love of him, till time had added- twelve more to its tally of- vanished years. Then came the embargo. President Jefferson (it was the one great mistake .of his administration) in- a message of half a dozen lines had recommended the measure; and the Congress, by a vote of two to one in the House, and four to one in the Senate, had passed the act. By this bill, American vessels were prohibited from sailing for foreign ports ; and, as 'it happened, all but- two of the ships in which Henry Oakridge,and Company were the owners were in the- port of Wawenock at the time, loaded or loading %'x   846        OAKRIDGE. with spars. When the news of the passage of the bill reached the town, several of these had- already sailed; and such was the state of feeling through- out the New England States, especially in the sea- port towns principally interested in commerce and navigation, that by an unanimity of action, though without concert, it was determined to regard the law as a nullity, and to,send ships to sea in spite of the- Federal authority and the Federal law. The merchants of Wawenock were among the foremost in this rash resolution; and I was primus inter pares. We did not wait for the sober second-thought. Sir Edward Leroyd, foreseeing the possible consequences, differed. from me; and your father, though express- ing his willingness to be guided by my judgment in the matter, was not backward in seconding his father's views as to the policy to be pursued. Natu- rally of, an impetuous temper, when thwarted, I suggested, as we could not agree, that we dissolve our uisiness-connection; and, having; abundant means at my disposal, 1 offered to purchase the interests of Sir Edward and his son :in the business of the firm, and did so, paying. to each of them upwards of fifty thousand dollars. Itwas no more than a fair value, though a large sum in those days. I think, notwithstanding the gloomy prospect, they would have preferred not to sell; but I insisted upon a dissolution as a matter of justice to them, and they could do nothing but assent. It would have been infinitely better for me, had I listened to, the advice of the venerable man, who, during-our business-   OAKRIDGE.         847 onnectioni of sixteen years, had never once advised hig firmi:to do what had' resulted in a loss. : I need rnot give you in detail the disastrous events of the- years that followed:' The first embargo, that of 1807, crippled the business of :Wawenock to such an extent, that it never; regained its former: impor- -tance;: arid the second, followed as: it was by a three- years' war with the nation whieh proudly claimed to be the mistress of the seas, shattered it altogether. Of rmy ships,: all that had not been captured by the eenemy actually rotted at the wharves. Ven- tures in' which I had embarked resulted in heavy losses. My shipyard, so long the -scene of active in- dustry, was wholly deserted. Men who were under heavy obligations to me failed without fault of theirs; and, long before peace was declared, I was financially ruined. The only consolation I had, if it maybe called such, was in the facttthat all the -other mer- chants in the town, I think without exception, were my companions in this misery I say "iin this misery-;" for, as you will see a little: further oin, financial -troubles were -as nothing compared with those that were added, and -but for which- I believe I might have saved at least a competenbce out of the wealth of which-I hhad been posssessed. :These added troubles commenced in the year 1812, have continued ever since, and will end only with my life. The 'bill- laying A theb embargo: of 1807 was re- pealed the fifteenth :day ofMarch, 1809, having been in 'force about fifteene months The news of the repeal ;was -received with acclamations- everywhere.   348         OAKRIDGE.- Reinewed confidence began to be felt; the business of: ship-building revived; stores that had been closed were opened again; Iand men walked the streets with an elastic tread, and a smile- on the face. "The-gov- ernment has come to its senses, there will be no war," they said. To this faith I was a convert, believing that the new administration would endeavor to heal the wounds that its predecessor had inflicted on commerce, and that the result would be a treaty between :the United States and Great Britain, which would furnish a sufficient guaranty against wrong atid-oppression in the future. - Sir Edward, did not share my' confidence. "The mother-country,'" he said,- "still looks upon: the- United States as a dis- obedient child, and will not rest content: until she, at least tries to whip it. Seamen will still be impressed, insults- to the- flag offered, andI all sorts of wrongs committed :on the high seas, till the daughter shows that she knows her rights, and, knowing, dares main- tain thtem.- The time must come, fin view of this, when public sentiment will demand war;, and there will-be :war: and that war must necessarily result in victory-for the United States-; for the right is with -them. -The government, in its repeal of the -bill layr ing the embargo, -is trying an experiment. It is seeking to make itself popular by repealing- an ob- noxious measure of its predecessor; but it Will be. found:to be- an ignis. fatuus.& The light it thinks it sees will be constantly going farther and-farther from it, till by and by it will realize that it is being led on by a phantom, and turn back till it reaches a stand-   OAKRIDGE.        349 point which a declaration of war can alone make tenable.- - If you heed my advice; you will-- build no more ships- for the present; rather sell those -you have, and keep the cash till these war-clouds are diJ- sipated. You can sell now-," he added; ' for, in this renewed confidence, hundreds stand ready to buy." "Would it be right for me to sell, if what you predict is to happen?-"I asked.  - "Certainly not," he answered, "if my judgment were infallible. The course I suggest and recom- mend will save you from loss v The adoption of it may result in gain, to those to whom you sell, perhaps great gain, which gain would otherwise be- yourlt,. But you kanow, as I know, that your selling would: at once show to every purchaser that you had no confi- dence in the immediate future; and therefore--those who buy. would and necessarily must buy, willing to take the chances. There can be no wrong in selling a thing for what its market-value is; for that value is not fixed by the seller or by the purchaser, but by the concurrent- mind or judgment of other men." As already intimated, I did not follow this advice of Sir Edward. Offers to purchase my ships were made by men confident of the future; ;but I declined them all, and, as the consequence, shortly became embarrassed, then bankrupt, and, finally, financially ruined. During the years that intervened between my parting with Inez and the lifting bf the first embargo, many things had happened which more or less af- fected my subsequent life,. Not the least of these -30   ^350        OAKEIDGE. :was an event at which, happening so late in their, lives, we all marvelled, - the birth of a daughter to Judge and Mrs' Radcliffe a few montlhs after the marriage of your parents. To this child was given the name of Maline, for the reason, as I suppose, that its birth-resullted-in'the. death of its mother. : Sir- Edward, after the dissolution of our copartner- ship,;had not engaged in active business. The repeal :of the- bille laying the embargo having made com- munication :with. England less difficult, notwith- :standing England andFrance were excepted-from' the -operation of the repealing or 'Non-Intercourse Act, as it was called,- he interested-himself iin endeavoring -to obtain from King George a pardon for the offence 'of which he stoodd convict. He did not wish, he said, to die an attainted man. I had noticed, long before, that, .as his years drew nearer and nearer to the Psalmist's limit, his thoughts turned more and more to- his- native land; 'and he seemed to have but one desire, namely, to return 'to Newport, and end his days amid the scenes where so many years of his life had'been passed, and where he had buried his wifer, Indeed; from the time of his son's marriage, he-had'not appeared conitented with his lot.' There was a -restlessness, a settled sadness, a. look and an air of .discomfort and discontent, about him,;that at times seriously alarmed us all; so that when, in the s-mmher-of 1809, his pardon came, and with it the full restoration- of his estates, we- -parted -from him less regretfully than we otherwise should 'have  done, believing that the familiar a scense of hisformer home    OAKRIDGE.         :851 would soon restore him to his old-time health-and spirits. During these years Maline Radcliffe- had grown to be a beautiful girl; I think the most beautiful girl, every thing considered, that I ever knew. She did not,in her looks, resemble either Inez or Alice ; but at fifteen she had all the grace of the latter, and all the'dignity of the former, with-the blended beauty of thie two. -Her father, after the death of his swife, had prevailed upon your parents to. make his house- their home; so that Maline, almost: from the, day of her birth, had been under the tender - care of her sister Alice; and the latter, having no children of her own, seemed to look upon the child of her father's old age as a daughter rather than as a sister. ' My boy was but- two years the senior of Maline; and they grew up together, like two rosebuds on a single stem. -They were not old 'enough, at the time of which I write, to think of marriage, or of thelove that leads to it, perhaps; but all of us were' fondly lookin'g forward to the time when the manliest boy in all the town should wed-the loveliest girl. Judge Radcliffe used to say that he only cared to live for that; and God knows how ardently I longed for it..: But it: was not to be. Such happiness was not i'--tore for-me. We had heard directly froin Sir Edward but once after his arrival in Newport, before the sad news of his death reahdied us. The letter announcing the event was received early in January, 1810, and was from the physician who had attended him in his- last moments., Death :had come to him unaninounced,.    s. . .                 d- . . . ..A,   8528        OAKRIDGE.  He-had barely time. to -declare, while in extremis, a nuncupative will, which the physician had reduced to,. writing, and seen duly attested, and a, copy of which he forwarded to your father. I remember, that, by the terms--of this will, Sir Edward's -,estate was divided equally between your. father and my boy.; but, in the event of my son's death before reachinghis majority, his moiety was to go, one-half to me, and one-half to Inez Radcliffe, "between whom, and myself," said the will, ,' I have put three thousand miles." bWhat a sad story- these words revealed to me! Fifteen years had passed away since Inez Radcliffe had said to mej that many things had happened while I was abroad of which she might not tell me, that -had influenced her action -more or less, and finally led, to her entering the Convent of St. Agatha. -I realized ;now, that not only Mr. Dent, but Sir Edward also, had sought to win her hand. His rest- lesshess and discontent through so many, years was no, longer strange to me-; and, of the" many things " of wyhich Inez had spoken, two, of which she cared not to speak, were made clear to me. The death of Sir Edward made it necessary that James should go to England to look after the estate, which was large; and he left us, a' few days after- wards, for Halifax, where he took passage in an English vessel bound for Liverpool. The evening before his departure he was-at Oakridge Hall with his wife, your mother; and we sat long into the night, reviewing the events of the nineteen years of,   OAKRIDGE'      --8 our: acquaintance, and mutually regretting the: sepa- ration abou't to --take place. Just before learving the Hall, he took an unopened bottle of wine- from the sideboard, and wrote upon the label:" 1791-1810' when we meet iagain." -- This bottle of wine, with the inscription still remaining, and bearing- the ini- tials of your father and myself,' will be found -on the-, topmost shelf of the 'wine-closet in the cellar, of 'the little house that I call my home. :  James Leroyd was absent for nearly-:tw0o years, In the mean time, Alice remained at her lfather's house, devoting all-her -time to Maline, -and-insthing' from day to- day the purity and lovelinhis ofther -own, character into that of her sister-child, who continued to-. grow, if possible, more and more beautiful as the months went by. She was very dear' to- all :-of ts, especially so to me, and was more--thain worthy of all-' the 'love that was showered on her. '-I would afttetript: to describe her to you ; but my pen'is all too' feeble to do justice to- the beauty of- her person, muchl--lss- to the beauties of her mind and heart-.-' Have :yo:: never seen, when walking among beds of flowers, some little delicate, half-hidden : blossom, challen- ging admiration by the sweetness of its perfume and the rare beauty -of its petals;   a Such aflower was- Maline. In th- midst of others of her age and sex, she: moved distinct, -alone altogether lovely, perfeet in form and feature, and:exhaling, as'it were, an odor of purity and sweetness all around- her. She lived i':i an atmosphere of joy and love; and-the gentle influ- ence of her artless,: happy life, was- mightiertfo'r good::i 30* Vi   ,85        OARIDMaE. -among-the young, men and maidens w ho- were her cqmpanions-and friends than all the teachings 'and preachings of pedagogue or pastor. ; In short, at-six- teen years of age Maline Radcliffe was ".a. aperfect woman, nobly planned." Can I say more of .her? - A year had .passedd since the departure of your father. I had been, during all that time, harassed by the; embarrassed situation of my pecuniary affairs, and could see no way out of my- difficulties. My son was now seventeen years old; and my hope had been, that Hmight be able to save at least the Oak- ridge Hall property, that it might, pass from me -to him: unincumbered; but-1 found, shortly afterwards, t haI, even with -the sacrifice of that, I could not meet my liabilities.. The will of Sir Edward had, however, placed him beyond the possibility of want; and the knowledge of this fact enabled me to bear, with something like equanimity,- the loss of my own possessions. In spite of my misfortunes, I was still. happy:in my, son. About this time, in a letter to his wife, your father sent the following message to me: "Say to Oakridge, that I have frequently met Col. Maxwell, his, ,former, travelling-companion, whose regiment is stationed here,; and he tells me that the man that Qakridgeshot on the road- to Terni did not die of -his wqunds, but, though for a. long time- disabled, finally :ecovered. -He was, it seems, the leader of a band of brigands, three of whom Delaney had hired for his purpose; but, having an enthusiastic admira- tion for every thing American, he had always refused   OAKRIDGIE.        355 to all]ow American. travellers to be interfered - with. Having learned, in some: way, of Oakridge's nation-. ality, he: had appeared on the scene to put a stop to the attack. His long disability effectually cured him of his love of brigandage; and he has since received a:pardon :from the government, and is now an officer in the Army-of :the States:of the Church. -"Col.- Maxwell also informs me that Delaney, on his return to Rome, was -arrested by the Papal authorities, on the- complaint of a brother of the man whom Maxwell had shot, and, :having no Mr. Dent to defend him, was tried, and found guilty, and sentenced to thirty years' imprisonment at hard labor, the utmost penalty of the law; and though- strenu- ous exertions have been made, and are still beindg made, for his pardon, they have thus far been un- availing. Lately, however," the colonel added, , the English: Gov-ernment have --been -prevailed 'upon- to interfere for his pardon; and it will, without doubt, soon be granted, Delaney having already served out more than half: the term of his sentence."  I was, of course, very glad to learn that the death- of this- man could not be laid to my charge; and :iy joy at the thought made me indifferent toe the- 'facts that Delaney might soon be at- liberty. 'Indeed, Il rather hoped that he might be. The objectd of his pursuit being no longer living, it did-not occur to me,-that Ihe would seek to :avenge himself upon me or my son.   CHAPTER XXXII. "Farewell  For in hat ord, that fatal word, howe)er We promise, hope, believe, there breathes despair." - BYRor. I HAVE now reached the point of time, when, in a momeint as it were, the sun of my life went down, never to rise again. I wonder that I approach so calmly the record of these saddest' days of my sorrow-biiurdened'life; but I find, as I near the end, that the consciousness that there is but little more to be told gives me the courage and the strength to keep -  '    ' l' ' e ' 'h ad '-predic  As Inez had predicted, the years that had passed since I parted wit h her at the gate of the convent had been among the least unhappy ofmy life. She had expressed the hope, in the last words she spoke to me, that our lives might flow along in the pure :tion. It was, at first, somewhat of a struggle to wean myself from the temptations of the pleasure- wod  in which I haden livi b u in utfter a littie the conclusio n at which s he had arrived was indeed a ise one.' I reconciled myself tod thetought tho kat "ive ' I"parte Iher t -wei re in this world forever separated, and looked 356   OAKRIDGE.        357 forward -with hope to meeting her in that better world to which she had pointed me. She became, as 'she had said she should become, enshrined in my heart. From the day that she touched my brow with her lips,'thereby sealing me to herself, I had looked upon no other woman with any thing more than affectionate interest. Even in my thoughts, I had been true to her. How it might have' been, if I had not had my boy' to turn to for consolation and comfort, I know not; but, having him, I was -con- tented with my lot, and my life was not unhappy. The year 1812 found me still overwhelmed with financial difficulties; but as every other merchant in the town was, as I have said,- in ,equally strait- ened circumstances, all were disposed to make the best of their Common misfortune, and to wait for the turning -of the tide. James had, from time to time, sent-me offers of pecuniary assistance; but I declined them all, hoping, against hope, that I might be able to weather the storm.- A few weeks prior to the time whichyoiur father had fixed for his return, I bad gone with, my son to attend a meeting of citizens, called together to take action expressive of their views as to the duty of the General Government regarding the troubles'with Great Britain. That war was inevitable seemed to be no longer a matter of doubt; but parties wDere oabout equally divided as to the policy of declaring it, and party-feeling ran high. I was of those who believed that only by compromise could a satisfac- tory settlement of the difficulties be arrived at, and, rt   at--this nieeting, was the spokesman of the party' whose views I represented. A' Amani byth6e na'ae of  Raymur, who: had- been at some time a militia colonel, was the leader of the other'side.'- He was a :man of violent passions, and, having taken offence at some- 'thing I had said, took occasion to make a public accusation against me, which he knew to be false, aldcL which I immediately denounced as a lie. "Do you mean to say that I lie?" demanded Raymur. "I mean to say that you have just now stated as a fact what you knew and know-'4 be rfalise," I re- sponded. . ' You shall answer to me'for this, :anft that' soon,' he said. The consequence of -this 'trouble was a challenge. Raymur had told the gentleman who brought it to' say to me, that, if I declined to meet him, he woluld: come to my house, and compel me to do so, or shoot me: on the spot.: I, of course, had- no intention of meeting the man, whom I had known only as a silly braggart, and'I so informed his friend.' Still, knowing him as' I did, I thought it :prudent to' prepare myself for: any emergeny that" i might arise, and,": with -that - .hought in smy mnind, asked::my son to bring me my pistol-case, which I had scarcely -seen since my, re- turn from-Europe, more than eighteen years before. -Henry qlooked up surpriseudkat-the requst, but obeyed, as he-- always- -did, without questioning. When he returned, he brought with him not only ;the oase for which I had ssent him, but his own also.   OAKRIDGE.         359- The latter contained a pair ofpistols of more modern manufacture, and fir superior to mine. , I thought: I would bring these also, father," was  all he said-as he placed the cases before me. Dear boyI How little he thought that that word "father "- was the last his lips would ever utter. I opened the case, ands carefully, as I thought, lifted one-of the pistols from its bed. I know- not how it happened, - I n&ver shall know how it hap- pend, -but, in the act of lifting it, the pistol was discharged; and I saw my son fall to the floor. The bullet. had entered his heart. With a cry of agony I bounded from my seat, and was bending over the prostrate form, when the door opened, and 'Hugh Delaney stood before me. Leaving my son, I sprang for him, -sprang for him with the rage of a wild beast. I forgot that-it was I who had, done the deed, and-looked -upon the villain before me as the author of this, as he had been the author of all my other woes. - I seized him by the throat with a gripe that was vice-like, and , hurled- him to/the floor with a force that was irresistible,. I . should have. killed him then and there, for my strength was superhuman ;but, alarmed. by the report . of the pistol,:the servants rushed into the room, and forcibly took me from him. Delaney rose to his feet. , Your master has, gone mad," he said. "He has murdered his son, andwas about to murder me.  Secure him, lest he murder you also."  ' Unloose me!," I said to the servants. Would you keep me from my son?" y    3860       OAKRRIDGE. ; Hesitating for a moment-only, they let me go. In an instant I was again bending over my boy. Hugh Delaney, also, was kneeling by his side with his hand upon the wrist. For the first time I saw in his face a look of humn sympathy. I forgot, in my fearful anxiety, my hatred of the man, and- looked at him with all my hope hanging on the word he should utter. "There is no pulse. He is dead," he said at last, rising, and moving across the room.     ? I threw myself upon the body of my boy. I would not believe that he was dead; that I was never more to receive his warm embrace, to hear his manly voice, to see his living form. I bore him in my arms to the sofa, and laid him there, and knelt by his side, and called him by his name, and begged him to look at me and to speak to me. But the eyes 'were already glazed, and the lips sealed forever. I realized that he was dead. The servants had  drawn apart, completely as- tounded by the terrible catastrophe. Delaney, too, stood'with folded arms, a little way distant, contem- plating the scene. I rose from my knees, and con- fronted him. "Are you satisfied-?' I asked, pointing- to the dead body of my son. "Henry Oakridge," he answered, "I have come here seeking vengeance: I have come- to demand at your hands the life of Agnes Leiroyd and the blood of Manfred Delaney; but I would not have harmedl a hair of that'boy's head. He was Agnes's child."   OtAKRDGE.  .61 "It is I, then, against whom your hand is turned," I said with a:terribIe calmness. -And, going to the table, I took from the case the other pistol, and, cross- ing to where he stood, asked him to take it, and -finish his worlik. "I will forgive you- all -the -pst, if you will but rid me of the future," I said to him. "tPut back the pistol," he responded.- "Had I suffered less at your Ihands than I have suffered, I could pity you, Henry Oakridge: as it is, seeing in the death of your son the avenging hand of the Lord, I am content,-hereafter, to leave youto your- self." ' Saying this, he moved to the table, and wrote for a while. He had hardly finished writing, when Dr. Creamore entered the room. The housekeeper had sent for him. "You come too late to be of any service, doctor," I said to him. A-strange calmness,: the- Calmness of despair, had come over me as soon as I had real- ized, that, in the death of my son, my own life had, as it were, gone out of me. I seemed to be some- thing distinct from myself. I, was an actor only in another scene of somebody's else life-tragedy. That Delaney should have appeared, after an interval of nineteen years, just at the moment of the -death of my son, did not seem at all strange to me: does it not always happen so in fairy-tales, andin novels, and on the: stage? And, now  that' Dr. Creamore appeared upon 'the scene, I regarded him drily as another character in the play; and wheii, advancing 81    862     OAKRID ". towards Delaney, he demanded, '"Is this your work?"I cried out, "Bravo!"' at the :naturalness of his tone and manner.  "; It is not: my work, Dr. Creamoie," Delaney answered him. "The- young man fell by the hands of his father, as rmy son fell before him." "Well done, Delaney!"I said. ,' Bravissimo! you play your part to perfection." My words tended to': confuse Creamore.  He thought I meant to charge Delaney with attempting toi hide his guilt, whereas I was only expressing my appreciation of the excellence of his acting. !' How is this, my poor friend '" said Creamore, laying his hand on my shoulder. "Tell me, if you can, how this dreadful thing came to pass." "I have forgotten my part," I said to: him. 'I can;t recall a word of it.-Delaney, speak for me. What is the answer to the question,; ' How did this dreadful thing come to pass? ' " Creamore and Delauey looked at each other. The latter, advancing towards me, put into my hand the paper he had written, and saying, "I must leave you, Henry Oakridge, lest my hate be turned into pity," he left the room. I opened the paper, expect- ing to find in it the answer to the question that Creamiiore had asked. It contained these" words only:- ("In the name of God, Amen I '"Manfred Delaney died by the hand of Henry Oakridge, Nov. 12, 1791, aged eighteen years, five months, and:five days. adaedy.:': ...   OAKRIDGE.--       363 : "Henry Oakridge, jun., died by the same hand,. Jan. 10, 1812, aged eighteen years, five months, and five days. , 'Vengeance is mine: I will repay, saith the Lord." ',  "Henry Oakridge, jun.," I said, after reading the paper. "It; seems to me that I have some- where heard that name. Creamore, who was ' Henry Oakridge, jun.'? and why did his father kill him?"  Creamore did not answer me, but, taking my hand, led me away out of the room, - away from the" note that Delaney had written, -away from the pistol- cases and the pistols, -away from the dead body of my boy,-led me as he might have led a child ; and I suffered him to lead- me, caring not whither it might be. As we passed through the hall, Delaney again appeared. Approaching me, he took my hand, and said, "Henry Oakridge, I thought to curse you again, as twice before I have cursed you; but God has avenged me. He has taken from you the woman of whose possession you robbed me twenty years ago. He has taken away from you your only child. He has deprived you of your riches. Wifeless, childless, pen- niless 1 Hugh Delaney is indeed avenged.- -I came, as I have said, to curse you; but a power mightier than this will of mine bids me bless, and curse not. Your future is an open book to me. I have read its sad pages, and turn back to warn you. Listen, and beed the warning! You shall recoverfrom the mad- ness that- now afflicts you; but henceforth, if you   864.        OAKRIDGE. would not dye your hands still deeper in the blood of those nearest and dearest to- you, suffer no manu bidden to enter your house, and, bidden, enter no man's house. Flee, rather, to the uttermost parts of the earth, and hide yourself in the crannies of the rocks. Solitary and alone you must battle with your fate. I would say' Farewell;' but henceforth theren is, in this World, no happiness in store forTthee or me.^ He turned arid passed out of the door. It was the last H ever saw or heard of Hugh Delaney. "What foolish rigmarole was that?   I should think the man crazy," I said to Creamore, "if I didn't know he is only acting a part." Though nearly twoscore years have passed since what I have just recorded took place, there is no event of my life that I remember with more distinct- ness; but;, of the e-vents of the four weeks that suc- ceeded this terrible day, I have not the slightest recollection.  Creamore' told me, afterwards, that I fell in a 8woon after reaching the room to which he had led me, and that I remained in a semi-unconscious state' borseveral days. After that, I became wildly deliri- ous, and had to be kept under severe restraint. In my delirium, Ihad called constantly upon my son to save me from Delaney. When restored to consciousness, the recollection of the scenes that had precededd' iy attack returned to me. ' I realized fully that my boy was dead, and that' he had been killed by the discharge of the'pitol' that   -OAKRIDGE.   -     365 J1 was taking from the case; but I could not then, and cannot now, rid nmyself of othe conviction that other agency than mine caused the discharge' of the pistol. At first, this was only an undefined idea, a half-formed thought, a something floating in my mind; but as time went on, in- spite of my efforts and the efforts of my friends, the fancy grew on me, till the thought became conviction, and I felt that the death of .my son -was not to be laid at my- door.' Not a night passed, that I -did not in my dreams go. through the fearful scene again; and always, in those visions, I could see beside me, the ghostly form of a man whose features I -could not distinguish, but ,the fingers of whose shadowy hand touched the, trigger of the pistol as I raised it from-the case. Strange, unnatural, groundless, as this fancy was, it was des- tined to' exercise over my life an influence as terrible as it was uncontrollable,* I would not, if I could, depict the horrors-of those  fearful ights: through. the days, I simply lived. With the death of my boy all desire for life, all hope, all care or thought of kin-d kidndred I had none -had gone out of me. Hwas indifferent'to"every thing and every body. Nay, hardly that. Maline Radcliffe was still dear' to me, and Inez remained enshrined in my heart; but besides these" two, one of whom was separated from me for all time, and the other of whom I now scarcely ever saw, I had buried all else in the grave of my son. To that grave, after my physical health was sufficiently restored to admit, of it, ' went every day. A plain slab of white -  31*   366         OAKRIDGE. marble covered  it, bearing the simple inscrip- tion:- HENRY, ONLY SON OF HENRY OAKRIDGED, Lived Eighteen Years. FAREWELL. Somewhere in my travels I had seen a similar in- scription on the tombstone of an only son; and it seemed to me so touching in its tender pathos, that I had adopted it for my dead boy's epitaph. There was a melancholy satisfaction in thus going, day after day, to the grave of my son.  I had not wept from the hour of his death.   Indeed, I had hardly spoken. My grief was of the kind that Coleridge sings: -- , A grief without a pang, void, dark, and drear, - A stifled, drowsy, unimpassioned grief, Which finds no natural outlet and relief In word, or sigh, or tear.' The sun of my life had indeed set, never to rise again.   CHAPTER   XXX ll. "No dreams, but visions strange." - SDNEY. YOUR father returned about the middle of Febru- ary, 1812. I did not know of his arrival until he came in the evening to the Hall, accompanied by- his wife and Maline. I was glad to see him back again, and told him so, and tried to talk with him about his journey, and to show some interest in the various subjects of conversation which he introduced but all my efforts were vain. It was not until he began to tell me of a vision he had had- on shipboard, that thy attention became fixed. On the  afternoon, of Jan. 10th, he had thrown; himself into his berth, he said, and, being very weary, had at once fallen into a profound sleep. How long he had slept, he could not tell; but in his sleep he had seen a vision (it was Somethinrg more than a dream),-a vision/ so fear- ful, and at the same time apparently so natural,- that it left an impression on his mind which time could not efface. So distinctly, that he seemed to be him- self present, he had witnessed the death of my boy; and the circumstances as he detailed them varied in no respect from the actual occurrences. The only thing that seemed mysterious and unaccountable to him was as to the manner in which the pistol was discharged. 1Ry hand, he said, was not near the 867   368        OARIDGE. trigger; nor did any thing strike against it as I raised the pistol from its bed. In the vision, he had seen himself standing directly behind me; and he seemed to be taking some other part in the tragedy than that of a looker-on; but, of what that part was, he could give no explanation. I began to be very much excited as he went on withs his telling. Maline, who was always very fond of me, noticed it, and came at once to my side, and stood there holding: my hand, and looking down upon me with eyes full of tender- est sympathy. I loved her for my dead: boy's sake no less than for her own. She seemed, as it were, a part of' him ;and I never felt quite all alone when she was near me.  It was late when I retired that night. I would not heave closed my eyes. in sleep on that, or any other night, could I have had my will. A thousand times had Iwished, that like Macheth, but in a differ- ent way, I could "murder sleep," It was that ever- recurring dream that made me shun the going to my bed. The vision that I saw in my dream was so ter-. rible in its frightful similitude, that nightly I' lived over again the cruel agony of my paor boy's fate. Nothing that I could do or take served in the least to mitigate this horror; and its sure recurrence had made me the veriest coward. I slept always in a brilliantly-lighted-room, and had my servant's bed placed in the hall just outside my door, within sound of my voice. As usual, at midnight, the vision of the dreadful scene returned. Again the shadowy form stood:   OzARIDGE.         869 beside me; but .now, horrible dictu, I recognized the- features, clear, distinct, unmistakable, of James Leroyd. I awoke with a cry of horror, and found myself sitting:upright in my bed. Opposite me was a mirror; I and miy countenance, reflected in it, was that of a madman. I was horrified at the ghastly. wildness of my look.' I fell back on my pillow. I knew that the vis- ion would return no more to me that night. Ordi- narily I had fallen into a' quiet slumber after the vision passed; but now all desire or power to sleep had vanished. After a while, I became calm enough to wrestle with my madness. I tried to reason away the dreadful conviction that was fastening itself on my mind. I  iknew, that, at the time'my boy was killed, James Leroyd was on the broad' Atlantic, a thousand miles and more away. I knew that- it was impossible :that he could have been present in the body; but might it not be, that the shadowy hand that I had all along seen in my dream  was the spirit-hand. of James Leroyd? Had, he not said, that,: in the vision which he had seen on shipboard, he seemed to be present, and somehow to have taken part in the tragedy? Could it not be, that in a sleep so profound as he had said his had been, -so profound, perhaps, as to be but a little removed from death, wkich it resembles, -the spirit may be permitted, for- an instant, to leave its prison-house, and go forth to accomplish some purpose? Before morning broke, I had not the shadow of a doubt that such was the explanation of the mysterious discharge of the pistol  3^70        OAKRIDGE. 'that had resulted in the death of my son; and with that conviction came the thought that only withy his life could his crime be expiated. I looked upon his death as the necessary and logical consequence .of his act, and upon myself as the necessary and only proper person to mete out this just retribution. The only thing that troubled me at all was as to the -method best calculated to accomplish it. This doubt I resolved by determining that he should die on the very spot,. and in the same manner, that my son had died.  There seemed to be a sort of poetic justice in that; and the fancy pleased me. - As I look back upon this terrible time, and think of the cool deliberation with which I set 'about the murder of the dearest friend I ever had among men, I feel that I have reason to be grateful to the al- mighty Father, that though a stranger to happiness, and compelled to isolate myself from my kind, he did not doom me to a lifetime of such fearful- mad- niess as was then afflicting me. Though, as I have before. intimated, I have never been able to rid my- self of the idea -that there was some supernatural agency that caused the death of my son, and shall probably go to my grave with that settled conviction, yet my reason tells me, that the shadowy form I saw in my visions was but the offspring of this conviction. That, on this particular night, I should, for the, first time, have recognized-the features as those of James Leroyd, is satisfactorily accounted for by the fact of his unexpected arrival, and the tale he had told me of his vision on shipboard.    .OAKRDGE.         871 -I- ate a- better breakfast that morning than -was usual with me, and, full of my purpose, set about   i making preparations for the reception of my victim. I arranged- the library as.- nearly as possible exactly. as it was on that other .day, carefully loaded, thepis- tol that had been -so, mysteriously discharged, and placed th6 cases in the closet in the! hall, ,where they had been before- Henry,- my son,t had, brought them to the library at .my: request. When ..all was ready, I -despatched -a servant with a note, requesting James to come to me: without fail, fixing the time a few -minutes earlier:, than. that which -marked -the death of my boy.  Promptly at the hour named, your father rode up to the door. He was on horseback. Dismounting, he entered' the house, and came to me with out- stretched hands, and a look of honest sympathy on his face.- I greeted him cordially, and offered him a glass. of spirits,;. for the day was a cold -one,. and.-he had riddenwith the wind in his face,.  "Maline is^ just behind. She stopped to speak to her -feathered friends," :he said, setting down his glass   ... ., ,             ... ,* .  ? I was sorry for, this.: If .Maline once .entered: the . room, I knew,-that I should -be powerless to carry out my, purpose. --I must -be prompt, therefore, and despatch him before she came-in.- .Aj :"I have been thinking, Jamea, how strange it: is that you should have, had that vision on shipboard," I said to him. " I sent. for you that I might show you exactly what happened between my son 'and  ,   *       .         ,.   372        OABRIDGE, myself that dreadful afternoon. Perhaps, between- us, we may be able to- solve the mystery of the- dis charge of the pistol. Do you mind taking -the part of my :son while I go through the motions?" "I will do so willingly," he answered. "But be sure and see that the pistol is not loaded, this time." "I have taken good care to see whether it is, or not," I responded. "When I first spoke to my son, he was standing about where you are now. I did not know biut Col. Raymur, .who had threatened me with violence, might attempt to carry out his tilreats, and, wishing to be prepared to defend myself, asked Henry to fetch me my pistol-case from the closet in the hall. He brought both mine and his own. Would you mind fetching them  now?"I asked, looking up at him. :i"Not at all. I will go at once," he answered, and went into the hall for that purpose. :He returned immediately, bringing the two cases, and placed them on -the table in front of me, pre- cisely where Henry had placed them. "It was thus that I saw them in my vision," he said; " and your son was standing just where I am now." :' Please remain where you are for a moment, and watch me as I take this pistol from its case," I said to -him. "I am. all attention," he responded. I opened the case, and took hold of the pistol as I had taken -hold of it before. When' it was ftairly- within my grasp, I rose suddenly to my feet, and, pointing it at the breast of James, said to him, "Die,   OAKRIDGEO.        373' slayer of my son!" and pulled the trigger. At that instant mty arm was knocked aside. The pistol ex- ploded:; but the bullet- intended for. the heart of James Leroyd buried itself in the wood-work of -the firepiece. Maline -was the good angel of his deliver- ance.. Therewere two entrance-doors from the hall to the library. The one behind :me had purposely been left open: it was -open when Henry was shot. By it Maline had entered just in time to save the life of your father. "Great God, what means -this?'  exclaimed James.  "Would you have murdered me,' Oak-- ridge?'               .  At the report of the pistol, the servants, gs:before, had rushed into the room., I was standing, gazing with a vacant look at the floor .      : "Where is the dead. body of: my son?"I asked, pointing to the spot where it had lain. I had for- gotten, for the moment, the occurrence that had just taken place. I remembered only the other scene,- that of the death-of my boy. Maline Radcliffe came and stood beside me. From a child, she had always called me "uncle." "What has occurred to-day to trouble you so ter- ribly, dear uncle?" she asked.- "We hoped to find you improved in health and spirits. Papa and Alice thought, that, now James had returned, you would try and bury your grief, and be your old self again. What has happened, dear uncle? Tell your little Maline." She put- her soft hand on my fevered brow, and smoothed back my hair, and looked into my face 32   ; :374       OAERIDGE. with her large, beautiful, tear-bedimmed evyesA. - At the touch of her hand, my' madness had -gone out, of me; and I sank,i sobbing, into a chair. I felt no de- sire to'make another attemnpt on the life of James. Hie was safe from me for that day, at least. I felt, however, that I had already entered upon: the dark future which Delaney had predicted was in store 'for me.: J;ames had entered my house bidden: it was a providence, only that prevented his being now, a corpse.- Who could say what might happen, were I -to meet him- again under similar :circumstances? Such thoughts as these forced themselves upon my mind, as I sat there with- my face buried in my hands ;r and I determined that never again, after parting with him that day, would I look upon the face of the dear friend, whose -friendship had well- nigh. proved- his destruction. Though, as- I shave said, all thought .of harming him had, for the pres- ent, gone out of me, I knew that the desire to take his life woulkd, sooner or later, return to me with doubled and redoubled force, and that there- was no safety, except in separation immediate and forever. So that when James came to me, and said, , I :have sent fort Dr. Creamore, Oakridge: something must be done, dear friend, to avert a return of these fear- ful. attacks, (thank God, they are but transient!)" I  was able ;to answer him- calmly, ," Thank you, James, Remain with me till the doctor comes: and you, too, Maline, I beg of you," I added. l:!It was not long before the doctor entered the room. -He -had no sooner seated, himself than. I 'turned -:to   OAKRIDGE.        '5     I the dear girl-, at my side, and said, "I will answer your question now,- Maline;" and I told all that had happened to me since I parted with them the even- ing before. James shuddered as I detailed the de- liberate plan I had formed to take his life ; but, when I had finished, the' sad story, he had for me only { words of tenderest sympathy.              : "Poor' friend!" he said. "Yours, indeed, has been and is a hard, unhappy lot; but let us hope and :n pray that the future may -have many years of con- tentment, if not of joy, in store for you." ' There are no years of contentment in store. for me, James," I answered him. "I have. told you what I have, because., I feel and know that Fate is even now, as I speak to you, erecting between you , and me a barrier which shall forever divide tus. 'To- morrow will see you upon the one side, and me upon the other, and we shall never in this world -meet, again." "Say not so," he answered. "When I come again to -see you, it shall be unbidden. It was not against ? unbidden guests that Hugh Delaney warned you." ' "I have -already ' bidden'" you; and something seems to say to me, that, should you enter these doors again, my hand will again be raised against yotir life. Promise me, therefore, for our old-time friendship's sake, that you will no more seek me, at least' not until Dr. Creamore assures. you. that -you may do -so :An without danger to yourself or me." James: sadly gave-: the promise, for. he saw how  i very anxious I1was that he should grant my pr ayer;  l :   876       OAKERIGE. and when he bade me ' farewell' that night, I knew, and I think he felt, that we had parted from each other forever. Such was the fact. I never looked upon his face again.   CHAPTER XXXIV., "( A stoic of the woods, a man without a tear."- CAMPBELL. Two years and more had passed away; and the early spring of 1814 found me still at Oakridge Hall, which I now never left, battling with my fate," as Delaney had predicted. The task were all too sad to pause by the wayside of the terrible road over which destiny led my footsteps, and gather up one by one the links of the chain which during that time was forged, and which has bound me ever since.*- The attempt which I had made upon the life of James Leroyd was but the first of a number of like experi- ences, all of which, however, through some provi- dential interposition, had been unattended by fatal results. In each instance, I had been either- the host of the victim, or his guest. Delaney's warning was continually in my mind; and by a terrible expe- rience I had learned that I could not treat it, as Dr. Creamore had sought to'make me believe I might, with indifference, as but the senseless raving of a man as mad as myself. If a person approached me even, he must come unannounced, or I found myself planning his destruction, and, if the means were at hand, attempting to accomplish it. I absolutely refused to accept any invitations; -and with two or 'three exceptions, when I inadvertently entered the 32*             8"   878        OAKRrIDGE. houses of other men, I had never been under anoth- er's roof since the death of my boy. When ill, I did not dare to send for Dr. Creamore even; and he, knowing-this, made it a rule to visit me each day, now at one hour, now at another; and his coming was always unannounced. After a little while, no one thought of asking me to visit him; and I was, in fact, self-isolated, months before I left Oakridge Hall for the little house in which, since the 17th of July, 1814, I have lived solitary and alone. By the death of my son, I had come into posses-, sion of, a moiety of his share of Sir Edward's estate, and was thereby enabled to pay off all my liabilities, excepting a mortgage which I had previously placed on the Hall. It had been my intention for months to bury myself out of the sight and sound of my fellow-men:; and I had only remained at the Hall that I might liquidate my indebtedness, and be able to carry with me, wherever I might go, the satisfaction of, knowing that I had wronged no man out of a penny. The mortgage of which I speak was held by Judge Leeland, whose wife was an ambitious woman; her whole desire seeming to be to lead the little world of fashion in which she moved. She had long envied me the possession -of the beautiful estate, my home for so -many years; and when, in 1813, I offered the premises for sale, her husband became the purchaser, paying me: for the equity of redemption the :sum of four thousand and five hundred dollars, far less than it was worth, but a fair price, perhaps, considering the financial depression which was pre- vailing everywhere at the time.   OAKRIDGE.        -879 I had now to decide whither I should turn my foot- steps. I could not bear the thought of fleeing to the uttermost parts'of the earth, and hiding myself in the crannies of the rocks, as Delaney had sug- gested. My desire was to remain near the- spot where my son was buried, and where I could feel that I was not separated by distance, as well as by time, from Inez and Maline. I consulted Creamore, who had long before advised me to follow the course which I had resolved to adopt; and acting uponb his opinion, that my mind would -be calmer, were I to remain amid the scenes which were hallowed by such sad and sacred associations, I determined -to erect a small house in- the midst of the woods, far away from the inhabited portions of the town, and near the last resting-place of my son, where I could live undisturbed and alone. The dreadful malady which afflicted me: had taken from me all desire to mingle again in the business or the gayeties of the world; and, could I have been spared the nightly agony of beholding the vision of my son's death by my hand (for-it was only in my wakilhg hours that I attributed it to an agency other than mine), I should have become reconciled, I think, to the fate, hard as wit was and is, which was gseparating me forever from my kind. Upon my Oakridge property was a small building, which, before financial trouble came upon me, had been used by the gardener as a place wherein to keep his tools. This house I caused to be taken down, and the materials of which it was. composed to be   - -80       OBOARIrDGE. carried to the place that I had, purchased for mny future-habitation.' This place was albout five acres in extent, and consisted of woodland, through which a living stream of clear spring-water was ever flowing, relieving the stillness with its rippling murmurs, and    .m r. .u r     *. a .- pleasing the eye witththe glistening sunbeams which it caught on its bosom. It was a delightful spot, and I had chosen it for that reason; for no fiat had gone forth that I should not hold communion with Nature, :w hose loving child I had ever been, and I sought to embrace wiithin the narrow limits b4eyond which my foot should never step, as much as I might of what had been to me, in my happier days, -a never-failing source of pleasure. Henceforth the trees and the birds, the murmuring brook, and the -sunbeams that played on its bosom, were to be my -companions and friends. Unjer Dr. Creamnore's direction, a, spot large enough to accommodate my little dwelling-house was cleared a rod or two distant from the margin of the streamj and a cellar was digged and -stoned. The remainder of the work I did myself, including the building of the chimney, and the plastering of the walls. -Here my experience in the shipyard proved of practical advantage:to me. It was recrea- tion, rather than work ; and I experienced something akin to pleasure in seeing the structure grow day by day under my hands. Every morning, at daybreak, 1 left the Hall, and went by water, rowing myself to within a few minutes' walk of my habitation, and at nightfall returned in the sam'e manner. Whatever   OA;KRI;DGB.       -381 materials were needed in the progress -of the work, Creamore saw delivered on the ground. I made no secret of what I was doing. All the town knew of the madness that was afflicting me, and of the- reason  for my thus secluding myself. Many would gladly have offered me assistance, had, they not feared the consequences that would be likely to follow.  I could neither ask nor accept of aid so long as I was myself engaged in the work.  In the library at Oakridge Hall was a mantlepiece of curious workmanship, to which I have elsewhere alluded. To the untutored sight its outward appear- ance presented nothing singular, except that it was elaborately carved, and somewhat highly ornamented with inlaid wood of different shapes and colors; but behind it was some curious mechanism.' jBy the striking of a, knob, a panel was made to move- on end, disclosing an aperture, within which, set in the brick work of the chimney, was a small iro, box, in which my father and mother, and afterwards my- self, were accustomed to keep our money and other valuables. This mantle I removed to the little house in the woods, taking care to do so at a time when I could place the same in its position, there without being observed by any one. To open it, it is only necessary to strike with some hard substagce the knob on the right-hand side: to close it, the knob on the opposite side must be turned to the left. As I have said, the 17ith of July, 1814, my forty- fourth birthday, found me solitary and alone in this little hut. Of the forty-ive. hundreda dollars which-   Judge Leeland was- to pay me, I had drawn three hundred dollars to pay for the land, and the expenses attending the erection of my house. What was needed in respect of furniture, linen; table-ware, and so forth, I brought with me from theI Hall. I also stored in the cellar of'my house the wines and liquors that still remained to me, My books, also, I had savedt from the wreck of nmy fortunes. I had made it a- condition of the sale,- at the time Judge -Leeland purchased the equity of redemption of the Oakridge Hall property, that I was to retain possession of the premises until the following sum- mer, should I desire to do so. As a consideration for this concession, he was to pay me twenty-five hun- dred dollars upon the delivery of  the deeds, and the' remaining two thousanddollars uponbeing put in pos- session;  Of this- twenty-five hundred dollars, I sent two thousand to your father, who had, soon after the sad separation which took place betweenus, removed to Fairm-ount, in the State of New Hampshire, where he had several years before become the owner of an extensive estate,-- having taken the same, at the request of the former proprietor, in satisfaction of a re-existing indebtedness,-and which,. from tha time  till the day of 'his death, remained in his pos- ;ession, and was for twelve years of his life his home. it was there that vyo were born, on the seventh day 'f November, 1814. This two thousand  dollars, your father, at my eqiuest, invested in a life-annuity for-me; and so arefully did he..execute the trust, that I have never-   OAKRIDGE.         383  failed to--receive at the end of each six months one hundred -and twenty -dollars in-gold, as the semi- annual outcome, -an amount which has hitherto proved amply sufficient for my-support. T he remain- ing two thousand dollars, immediately upon my leav- ing the -Hall, was paid to me by Judge Leeland.; and I -placed the same in my safety-box behind the mantle, where you will find it, together with some other articles of but little value intrinsically, but of much interest, as having beenrrmore or less intimately asso- ciated with events in -the lives 6f your parents and myself, The causes which led -to your father's leaving Wawenock, and making his home at Fairmount, were: twofold.  The fact that he was- the owner of the estate was, of course, of influence in determining his action; but the moving cause was the knowledge of the fact, that while he remained in the town, night after night, in my     vision, the -face: of the shadow retained the features it had first assumed on the night of his return from Europe, and that, for this reason, it was with difficulty I could restrain myself, at such times, from rushing from- my house, and executing upon him, what seemed to me such a just retribution. In vain had Dr. Creamore tried to rid me of the fancy. It grew day by day stronger and-stronger, until finally I had to be restrained by force from attempting to execute my purpose. These fits of- madness were not, however, of long duration; anid, when recovered from them, I would not allow the doctor to inform James how fearfully I was under the influence--of them-  384        OAKRIDGE. while the paroxysms continued. The health of Judge Radcliffe was very feeble; and his death, so Creamore had informed me, might be looked for at any moment. I knew that it was necessary that James and his wife should be in attendance upon him, and for this reason exacted a promise from the doctor, that he would not add to their trouble by in- forming them of my condition. But when, early in the summer, so gently and peacefully that they knew not when it came, Death knocked at the door of Judge Radcliffe's chamber, and took him in his mer- ciful arms to the all-merciful Father, this reason for James's remaining no longer existed; and after the funeral I begged of Creamore to urge upon him that he leave the town at once. I knew that this involved separation from Maline; but I had been long trying to- wean myself from every thing that I had ever loved. Within a week the doctor informed me that your parents and their sister had left for Fairmount. It was thought for the best that they should go without seeking to take leave of me. I was glad that they had done so. From that day until now, not only the features, but the shadowy form itself, vanished out of the vision that haunted me, and never returned. With the shadow out, I have learned not to shunihe coming of the vision. I should be comparatively happy, if I could think of the past and the present only; but over and above what has been and what is, glooms ever the dark cloud of what may be. My days are always days of dreadful apprehensions; and, when I   OAKRIDGE.           385 seek my bed at night, I thank God that one day more has been numbered with the past. The baker, who supplies me with bread and other necessaries, enters my house by stealth only. I dare not call to my side even a'cat or a dog, to make a companion of in my loneliness: the terrible curse of my existence extends also to them. I bid them come to me only to see them lay killed at my feet. On the day that I took up my abode in this little house, a letter was brought to me by a messen- ger, who entered without knocking, and left immedi- ately I had taken it from his hand. It was from Inez Radcliffe, and contained these words,- ,( Courage, my friend! Henceforth our lives draw nearer together in their semblance. Henceforth, permitting nothing to disturb our thoughts, we can look forward with joy to the end that shall come for us in God's good time. Many a holy monk, in the ages all along, has voluntarily buried himself in the caves of the earth, living the life of a hermit, that he might die the death of a saint. A harder fate makes you the solitary that you are; but let what I am about to say lighten a little the gloom of your waiting. Like you, I, too, have my nightly vision. In it we are standing together on ' the Beautiful Hill, hand in hand, as we stood on that last evening when I pointed your doubting faith io the valley below. But now my hand points heavenward; and to my vision, and seemingly to yours, the heavens are opened, and through the glittering portals we behold the life-our life- that is to be. Oh th'at I -had ' a quill pluckt from an angel's wing,' that I might describe to you the glorious sights that are vouchsafed me in my visions! But I see unutterable things. I may not attempt even to outline the glory of their seeming; but ever, amid all the changing scenes, we walk the golden streets together, pausing now and 833   3886  -      OAKRIDGE. then to drink in the ecstasy of music that floats to our ears from angel choirs, or ourselves joining in some celestial anthem -that seems to bear us as it were on its wings, upward and -onward, till we stand before- the great white throne, and pour out our souls in a song of adoration. O my friend! what are days or years of trouble and of pain, what is a life of solitude, of self-denial, of despair, what all the agony of disappointed hopes, of blasted prospects, of ruined fortunes, compared with one moment of such ecstasy as this! Thank God, be- loved, that he has prepared in his infinite compassion such good things for those who love him, and buckle on the armor of your faith to battle to the end." I have but little more to add.  The story of my life is well-nigh told, though many years have passed away since I first read the letter that I have, just transcribed.   Are you curious to know  what was the subsequent history of my guardian, of Mr. Dent, of Dr. Creamore, and Maline?  The first-named has figured not at all in preceding pages, since his calling upon me the evening after my return from   Europe. Still he had not gone out of my life. The friendship of the one for the other was never interrupted during the years that I remained at Oakridge Hall. We met frequently at each otlher's house, but never at a time when any thing occurred worthy of special mention. He lived long after my becoming a re- cluse, and died in 1822, at an advanced age, honored and -respected by all who knew him. A    man of austere piety, and without guile, he went to his reward. Of Mr. Dent's history after he parted from me the day .of your parents' marriage, I have not even a   OAKRIDGEM        887 trace. He disappeared from the town as mysteri- ously as he had entered it, thinking, perhaps, that he could better struggle with his disappointment, if he should put greater distance between himself and the object of his affections. With a man like him, to love once is to love forever. Doubtless he has carved for himself a niche in the Temple of Fame; but few, perhaps none, will ever know, when his statue is set up, that the form which it represents, seemingly that of a man as hard and inflexible as the marble from which it is chiselled, was once instinct with all the life of a love as true and as noble as ever sprang from the warm heart of a man. Of Dr. Creamore I have more to say. His matur- er years had fulfilled the promise of his youth. As a physician and surgeon, he ranked second to n ne in the Province of Maine. Socially he was a culti- vated, genial, high-minded, companionable man, hav- ing the esteem of all who knew him, and welcomed everywhere. During the year and a half that I remained at Oakridge Hall, after- the death of my son, and before your father removed to Fairmount, Dr. Creamore and Maline had been thrown much together; and a friendship sprang up between them, which soon ripened into love. The former found himself, for the -first time, conquered by love, which sooner or later conquers all. Hitherto, Cupid's arrows had fallen blunted from the shield of his indifference; but in the presence of Maline the shield itself had fallen, and the arrows struck thick and deep. They were betrothed before Maline left for   888        OAKRIDGE. her new home.  Nothing could have pleased me more. I was glad that the gentle girl would have about her the strong arms of such a man's protec- tion. I might have wished, perhaps, that the dis- parity in their ages had not been quite so great: but Creamore was one of those men who seem to be gifted with eternal youth; and I knew that he would never grow old in the eyes of Maline, or she seem over-young in his. They were married the following year at Fairmount, and returned shortly afterwards to Wawenock, where they continued to reside until the year 1825, occupying the old homestead, which had been vacant since the death- of Judge Radcliffe. You will hear of them again a little farther on. x      CHAPTER XXXV. "What is writ is writ." - BYRON. MORE than a quarter of a century has passed away since I became an inmate of this litttle house. I have written the' preceding pages at intervals,' sometimes many months intervening, sometimes years; and, now that-I seat myself to pen the closing words, of my life-story, I know not whether I con- template the end with feelings of satisfaction or of regret predominating. The task has been, as I fore- saw it would be, a sad one; but it has given me, at times, a melancholy pleasure to write of the dear friends whom I long ago knew so well, and loved so much; and not unnaturally there comes to me a feel- ing of sadness as I take my pen to say "Good-by " to them all. To-night I have brought out from their resting- places the files of letters, yellow with age, which have come to me during these years of solitude. By far the greater number of these are backed with the name of James Leroyd. One of them now-lies openi before me. It is the one in which your honored father announced to me the glad news of your birth, and reads as follows: FAIRMOUNT, Nov. 7, 1814. MY EVER DEAR FRIEND, - At lat, after so many years of waiting, God has sent us a son. The little James is now but a83%            889   390         OAKRIDGE. two hours old; but I cannot delay sending the glad tidings to you, who have always been so near and so dear to us. Besides, I cannot but believe that the news will send a gleam of sun- shine into the dark solitude of your life; and, though it be but transient, it will cheer you at least for the moment. Alice has already forgotten her anguish, " for joy that a man is born into the world." We are very happy in the new world of love that the little one's coming has opened to us. Oh, my friend ' if you could only be with us to join in our. joy! I will not believe - that the time is not to come, in the not far distant future, when we can be once more united. Morning and even- ing we pray to God to hasten the coming of the day. May he grant our prayer, and that right speedily! Yours always affectionately, JA7MES LEROYD. HENRY OAKRIDGE, Esq. I open anotherletter.    It is also from your father, and bears date Nov. 7, 1820. I have elsewhere alluded  to it. "My son is six years old this day," it commences; " and again, as on each recurring anniversary of his birth, I write you concerning him. We think him ' a very paragon.' He is perfect in health, and in every respect a noble-looking and a ioble-acting boy. As I look at him, my mind leaps over the intervening years, and I see him grown to man's estate. I won- der if it will be his fortune then to find some other, as worthy as himself, between whom and him shall spring up a friendship like to ours. "Alice and I speak often of the past; and only to-day she said to me, that she wished it might be so that our boy could have, when we have passed away, the story of our lives during the years of our close companionship. Even if you had not requested that that story be a sealed book to him, I should feel that I have no right to pen it down; for you alone should judge how much of the sadness of it should be told. Besides, it has   OAKRIDGE.          391 seemed to me. that you would find in the task, painful though it be, a relief from the terrible monotony of your solitary life, of which you have so often written me; and therefore, for your own sake, as well as for that of my son, I have determined to beg of you to undertake it. Will you not do:so? Alice joins with me in the hope that you will not disappoint us in this." It was this letter which first suggested to me the writing of these memoirs. After the death of your parents, I looked upon the request as tantamount to a command, and obeyed it. I open still another letter. When received, it was sealed with black; and its superscription was in an unfamiliar hand, though it bore the post-mark '"Fair- mount."  It records not only the  death of your parents, but also that of Dr. Creamore andMaline. Strange and terrible fatality! that in an instant, in the twinkling of an eye, took out of perfect health and strength and life the only persons in the world, besides yourself and Maline's infant daughter-(Inez I did not regard as in the world to me), for whom and- in whom  I felt an interest. I transcribe the letter in full. FAIRMOUNT, Nov. 7, 1825. HENRY OAKRIDGE, ESQ. Honored Sir, - It is with feelings of profoundest grief that we communicate to you the melan- choly tidings of the terribly sudden death of Mr. and Mrs. ' James Leroyd and of Dr. and Mrs. Creamore.  The sad event occurred this day, about the hour of four o'clock in the after- noon, as nearly as it is possible to determine. All that is known of the circumstances preceding and attending the fa- tality is as follows: The day, for this sea/son of the - year, has been a singularly beautiful one, more like June than Novem- -ber; and Mr. Leroyd ordered his horses put to, for the purpose   392          OAKRIDGE. of taking Dr. and Mrs. Creamore, who were visiting. his wife, out for a drive. They left Fairmount in -an open carriage a little before noon, and started for Newcastle,. about twelve miles distant, intending to lunch there, .and return towards evening. That they did lunch at Newcastle is known; but the exact time of their- leaving for Fairmount has not yet been ascertained. It was probably about three o'clock; for they had reached Duncan's Grove, four miles from Fairmount, when the catastrophe occurred. With them in the carriagewas James, the son and only child of Mr. Leroyd, a lad of eleven years, and an infant daughter of Mrs. Creamore, a child in arms. It is from this boy that we have learned all that we as yet know of what happened on the way back. The child's account is, that his father was driving the horses, and, as the carriage neared the grove, it com- menced to thunder andslighten, followed soon after by a heavy shower. To obtain shelter from  the rain, Mr. L-eroyd turned his horses a little- out of the travelled way,and sought -the protection of a wide-spreading tree by the side of the road.. Beneath this tree, which had been riven by a lightning-stroke. the carriage was found.  The four adults must have been instantaneously killed by the stroke that had riven the tree: the two horses were also killed; :but, by a strange providence, neither of the children was hurt.  We shall personally- look after the arrangements for the funeral, which will take place on the 10th instant; and after- wards one of us will see to it that the little girl is safely deliv- ered to her aunt, M r. Creamore's sister, who, we understand, is mother superior of the- Convent of St Agatha, and her only living relative, except the lad so: providentially saved with her- self.            , It is useless, dear sir, on an occasion -of such unspeakable sadness, tomultiply words. The casualty itself speaks louder than any language can, and has cast a gloom iover this commu- nity, in which Mr. Leroyd and his wife were universally hon- ored, that it will take long to dispel.  We have addressed this letter to you at once in compliance e                 ,   a!   OAKRIDGE.         393 with a request of Mr. Leroyd in his lifetime, that his executors should inform you of his decease immediately upon its occur- rence.' And, begging to assure you of our high regard and deep sympathy, we are, dear sir,  Your obedient servants, WILLIAM' SPENCER, JAMES HORTON, Execitors. Shall I ever forget the inexpressible pain that the perusal of this letter caused me? How much, in those hours of agony, I thought of you, dear son of so dear a father! And how bitterly I mourned the sad fate which prevented my going to you, that I might try to fill that father's place in, your affections. But I could only send out to you the sympathy of a sorrow- burdened heart, and pray God that the terrible dis- pensation of his providence might be sanctified to your temporal and eternal good. I had never seen the little girl, who, with yourself, was so wonderfully saved; but I had been duly in- formed of her birth a few months before, and I now hastened to write the executors of your father's will, offering to place in their hands, for her benefit, the two thousand dollars that I had by me, as elsewhere spoken of. 'But learning from them subsequently that Dr. Creamore had left her amply provided for, and they having declined to accept the trust, I did not: carry out my intention. Two -more letters lay open before me. Without, them,my life-story would hardly be complete. The one is in the fair, bold handwriting of a strong woman; the other shows the tremulous, hesitating.   :394         OAXRIDGf. :hand of age: but still one'would kniiw that the handwriting of both is the same.  The two are from Inez, and bear date respectively Dec. 1, 1825, and July 17, 1841.  Both are from  the convent of St. Agatha.  In the first she writes,- - "There came to the convent, a few days ago, a gentleman by the name of Spencer, one of the executors of the will of James Leroyd. He was accompanied by his wife; and they brought with them a little girl, an infant scarcely six months old, who, they informed me, was the daughter of Dr. Creamore and my sister Maline. You have already heard of the terrible casualty by which she was orphaned;- and I will notrenew your grief by attempting to describe my own feelings when the heart-rending facts were communicated to me. I write you now only to say that I have adopted the child as my own, and shall at once see to it that the generous bequest of Sir Edward Leroyd, which you refused to accept from me, is settled upon her. "The little one so closely resembles her mother at her age, that I seem to see again 'the wonder-child,' as we called her, of twenty years ago. I have given her her mother's name, Maline, a sweet name in itself, and suggestive of the evil- that has befallen her It will be the effort of my life, and no less a- pleasure than a duty, to so rear the tender plant thus provi- dentially confided to my care, that, when she reaches woman- hood, she will be all her mother would have had her becomes Necessarily she must be reared in the faith of the Church: but 3 shall not allow her judgment to be warped, or her conscience to be bound. When old enough to judge forherself, she shall be in all things free to act as her conscience dictates. I hope, of course, that she will find all her religious nature craves where I have ever found it.; but, my friend, as I grow older, I seem to see many things in a .clearer light; and have come to believe that it matters little by which of the strait and narrow ways we journey,-if we only reach our Father's house at the last. Pray   OAKRMDGE.          395 for me, constantly, that I may be enabled to see and to do my whole duty by this child of my adoption, that I may indeed be a mother to her, - not a mother superior only, but a mother in- the best and holiest sense of the term."  The other and last letter, written nearly sixteen years later, when .more than threescore years and ten had come to her and to me, I give entire, be- lieving it to be pregnant with life-happiness for you, if the wish of its writer, to which I add my own en- treaty, shall in the providence of God be met. CONVENT OF ST. AGATHA, July 17, 1841. HENRY, BELOVED, - "( The days of our years are threescore years and ten." You have passed the limit a twelvemonth, and, within the year, I, also, shall have done so. Our lives have been wonderfully prolonged; but it must be that -to both of us the end draweth nigh. To me the' thought would be unaccom- panied by any thing of anxiety or regret, were it not that I must leave behind me, unprotected, my beautiful one, the little Maline of whom I wrote to you sixteen years ago. It is on her account that I write to you now; for I want your counsel and advice. You remember how beautiful the mother was at the age of sixteen; but the daughter is far' more so; without exception, the loveliest person I ever knew, in form, in feature, and in character, she has intwined herself so closely about my heart, that she seems to be a part of my life. I have, had one of the sisters nmake a sketch of her at her studies, which I en- close. You will think the picture -beautiful-; but it conveys no idea of the exquisite loveliness of the original. I have devoted myself, through all these years, as I promised myself and you, to the mental and moral tramning of this child. She has been an apt scholar, and, in all that pertains 'to noble womanhood; is, fitted to adorn any station in life.- I have deter- mined that a convent is not the place for her. . Somehow my whole being revolts, when. my duty as a mother superior sug-   / 3896         OAKERIDGE. gests that I should urge her to give her youth and beauty to a monastic life. Tt would be-- am I wrong in saying this? - like consigning a nursing child to the dry breasts of a Meg Mer-- rilies.- She says that she will never leave me. She wonders that I do not urge her more to prepare herself for the life which I -am leading. She thinks, I believe, that the highest position one can attain is to be the mother superior of a convent -like that of St. Agatha. But convent walls are not for such as she has shown herself -to be. There has, as yet, no bitter disap- pointment entered into her life. She is happy because she loves me, and, knowing no other love, is content with what she 'has. But she must know another love, - such a love as we -for so-many years have known, without its bitter disappointments; and-as I sit in my loneliness, and think of her, and long for a happy future for this child of my adoption, always as I think of it, I know not why, my thoughts rest on James. Leroyd, my sister's son; and -I wonder if it might not be that he would find in her the ideal for which it would seem that he has thus- far looked in vain; for I learn that he is still unmarried, and in every way worthy of the rare treasure that I would gladly de- liver into his keeping. Besides, when I have passed away, he will be her only living relative; and naturally to his care her person and her property must be intrusted. -My desire is, that, before that time shall come, the two may meet. Can you not in some way bring about this meeting? I would, see him, and obtain from him a promise that he will be, at least, a kind friend and faithful guardian to his gentle cousin. But, though this wish is so near my heart, I have hesitated to write to him myself. My position as the mother superior of a convent, the fact that we have never met, and that he is of a different faith, and the reluctance that I feel to do any thing that might look like seeking to thrust Maline into his good graces, prevents me. But :you, as the dearest friend of his father, might -with pro- priety write to- him, that in the Convent of St. Agatha are his only .living relatives, and that duty, if not affection, should lead him to visit them. If he once sees Maline, I fear not for thM Result.   OAKRIDGE.          397 / Write me by the messenger who brings. you this, what con- clusion you reach, and tell me, also, what you think of the sketch. I long ago settled upon the child the bequest of Sir Edward Leroydi;' and it has now nearly doubled in amount, so that Maline will not be -a dowerless bride. I wish it were so that you might some time see her; but this I suppose to be impossible ... And now, my friend, good-by! A little while, only a. little while, and -the weary pilgrimage will be ended. I would that we might at the same time cross the threshold of the other world, and enter upon the better life " where the wicked cease from troubling, and, the weary are at rest;" but, if this may not be, the separation will be for a short time only; and then cometh the eternity of happiness for which we have both waited so long. May God bless you, and keep you, and lift up the light of his countenance-upon you, and give you peace, for our dear Lord's sake! Amen. Faithfully to the end, - /  'INEZ. I wrote to Inez, hi reply, that I did not dare to open a correspondence with you, or with the execu- tors of your father's will, but that I saw no reason why she should not inform    you of the fact that Maline would shortly come to woman's estate, and that she did not wish the maiden to devote herself to a monastic life. I informed her, also, that -I was writing for you the story of my life, and that, in it, I would give the contents of her letter, and myself express the wish, as your father's friend and--yours, that you might be led to think favorably of the sug- gestion she, had made.  Surely, it cannot but be that the sweet face of your cousin will attract your inter- est and admiration; and, if you are not altogether 34   898        OAERIDGE. unlike other men, the fact that she is not only beau- tiful, but rich and accomplished, will throw no ob- stacles in the way of a consummation so devoutly to be wished. Saved, as you both were so wonderfully from the stroke that killed your parents, it would seem almost as if Providence had spared you for each other. I know not whether Inez has followed the I gav her, -ad..sef. ' advice I gave her, and herself written to you. If not, and you should ever read these pages, will you not, for my sake, if not for the gentle Malines, seek out Inez Radcliffe at-the Convent of St. Agatha, and re- lieve her anxiety by promising to be, at least, a pro- tector to the, young girl who must in the course of nature soon be left without the care of her only other living relative, who since her infancy has watched over and cherished her? God grant that Inez may survive me, that so what I have just now written may come to you knowledge, before Maline is, a second time, orphaned! My task is done. I have nothing further to add, save, that, should it ever be vouchsafed me to look upon your face, this manuscript will be put into your hands by me; otherwise, I shall leave it, sealed and directed to you, to be forwarded after-iy death to Fairmount, where I suppose your home still to be. I only ask, that,in the one case or the other, you follow the directions which I shall write on the wrapper. I( do not pray for death; but, when God shall see fit to call me to my rest, his messenger-will not be unwelcome. I shall die at peace with the   OAKRIDGE.          8 world,- Delaney, even, I have long ago forgiven, and, I trust, at peace with Him without whom not even a sparrow falleth on the ground. Here the manuscript ended. "Whlat a strange, sad story I It reads more like fiction than fact,' I said to myself as I laid the last page on the top of its fellows. With Inez Radcliffe I was disposed to feel vexed. For Delaney, even, I had more of kindly feeling than for her. I could excuse and forgive the former, as the man whom he had wronged so cruelly had done; but, with the woman who had played at ;"hide-and-go-seek with a heart like that of Oak- ridge, I had no sympathy. I regarded her not only as the strangest, but as the most cruel of her sex. "Heartless, unnatural, inexcusable," was my comn- mentary. I almost regretted that the .request of Oakridge made it incumbent upon me to visit her; but I at once resolved to do so. Whether as a consequence my opinion of Inez changed, or not, and what were the results of that visit, may be learned from the chapter that follows.   CHAPTER -XXXVI. "Earth's noblest thing, a woman perfected." -LOWELL. I HAD read the manuscript at a single sitting. When I reached the end, I folded its again, replacedl it in its wrapper, brought the ends of the package together, and with a lighted taper set the wax on fire. I saw the broken margins run together, and,- blowing out the- flame, watched the wax as it cooled, till it was ready to receive the impression of Oak- ridge's ring, which I then wore, and am now wearing ; and, having impressed the seal upon it, the manu--  script lay before me just as it was when I received it from its author, save that its contents were now known to me.   Carefully replacing it in the reposi- tory, I took therefrom the ivory' box inlaid with' silver, and, not without a feeling of awe, turned the key in the lock. With much of the contents of the box the manuscript had already made me familiar; but I was -curious to see the portrait of the young girl, in whom I already began to take no small degree of interest, not only on account of the relal- tionship existing between us, but because I had never forgotten the  terrible tragedy of our lives, now so vividly recalled to my recollection, and which, whether we would or not, made a  part of our life- histories identical. That the .executors of my fa- 400 -   OAKRIDGE.         401 ther's will should have kept me in ignorance of the existence of my aunt and cousin seemed to me unaccountable. I opened the box. Upon the very top lay the last letter of Inez to Oakridge, containing the sketch for which I was looking. Properly it could hardly be called a sketch. It was a water-colored picture, exquisitely- drawn, and represented a young girl resting her head on her left hand, and apparently engrossed in a book which lay open before her, Her right hand was toying with the long ringlets of golden hair that covered her shoulders. A bouquet of bright flowers was on the table beside her; and at her feet a magnificent greyhound was crouching, looking up into her face as if waiting for the word or the caress- which he knew to be sure to come. She was dressed- in white. Her attitude was grace itself; but what shall I say of the features of the face at which I was gazing? The beauty was simply marvellous.- As exquisitely as a rapt nun -of the middle ages might have painted the image of a saint on, the margin of her missal, so exquisitely had the sister of: the: Con- vent of St. Agatha pictured the portrait of Maline. Imagine, if you can, dear reader, a low, classical fore- head; hazel eyes, dark, rich, and velvety, shaded by long black lashes; a nose purely Grecian in its -out-- line; a mouth, the upper lip-of which was short, the lower ;one very full, -and both "vermeil-tinted," open enough to just reveal the " quarelets of pearl, " cheeks in which dimples were hiding, and where the l red and the white seemed to have struggled for the 34*             - L      r-'    T402        OAKRIDGE. mastery till each had lost itself in the other; neck and shoulders like those of the Medicean Venus; a form petite and sylph-like , and over all the elegance and ease of 1" a grace beyond the reach of art," - and you have Maline as the sister had painted her. Well might Oakridge write that it could not but be that the sweet face of my cousin would attract me. I had never seen or dreamed of any thing half so entrancing, - ("And ne'er did Grecian chisel trace A -nyhph, a naiad, or a grace, Of finer form or lovelier face." Inez had not followed the advice of Oakridge, and written me concerning Maline. I was surprised at this, and wondered what could be the reason of her still hesitating to do so. "I shall see Inez Radcliffe, and know more of my cousin ere this day week," I said to myself. When I had reached this conclusion, I immediately set about putting my purpose into execution. For the first time in my life, so far at least as one of the opposite sex was concerned, I felt a little nervous. The meeting so soon to take place between Maline and myself began to assume in my mind as much of importance and significance as if I already knew that it -would result in our espousals. Inez had written that the picture gave -no idea of the loveliness of the origi- nal. I did not believe it possible that this could be so; for, if true, I was about to go into the presence of an angel. Two years had passed since the letter was   OAKRIDGE.         403 written, and Maline was now  eighteen. If her beauty had increased with her years, it must be in- deed angelic. I began to fear lest Inez might have changed her mind, in the mean time, as to the future of her protegee. The next day I started for the6 Convent of St. Agatha. I took with me as a gift to Maline a com- plete set of the novels of Sir Walter Scott, a beau- tiful edition, imported by me a few weeks before from England; also some articles of jewelry that had been gifts from her mother to mine ;and a full- length portrait, which, from my earliest recollection, had hung in the gallery at Fairmount, and repre- sented her mother in her wedding-dress. It occurred to me that the novels might not be an entirely appro- priate gift to the inmate of a convent; but the face in thie picture had a degree of mischief in it, and looked as if its owner would not unwillingly ex- change the text-book she was poring over, for some such work as "Ivanhoe." or "Rob Roy; " and I con- cluded to try the experiment. My judgment, as it proved, was correct. It was the third day of April, 1843, late in the afternoon, that I drove up to the convent-gate. Apparently the building and its surroundings had changed but little during the almost half-century that had elapsed since Oakridge had last visited -the place. Every thing about it was neat and orderly ; but the day was a dismal one, and the season of the year the worst possible for holding communion of any sort with the visible forms of nature. I was *               .         .   404        OAKRIDGE. glad when I found myself inside the convent-walls, and before a cheerful fire, awaiting the coming of the mother superior; but I cannot say that I was altogether at my ease as I stood there. Presently a door opened, and a venerable lady, tall and- straight, and retaining still the marks of great personal beauty, entered the room. It needed no second glance to tell me that the mother superior was before me; nor was it difficult for me to realize that she was the Inez Radcliffe of Oakridge's story. - Advancing towards me with a sweet smile of wel- come on her face, she said, "I am very glad to see you, James; and, from  your resemblance to your father, should have known you to be my nephew, even if you had not sent -in your name. I thought you would come  to see me after the death of Mr. Oakridge, and was expecting you about this time. Come with me to the refectory; and, after you have refreshed yourself, we will try and become better acquainted with each other." I  followed her, into an adjoining room, where a substantial meal was already spread, to which'I did ample justice. My  appetite for the while overcame ,my curiosity ; and I did not once allude to Maline, not even to ask after her welfare. Our talk at the table was principally of Oakridge. She told me, among other things, that she had been present at his funeral,: not being able to conquer the desire to look upon his face once more. I  do not say that I did not think of Maline in the mean time; but I waited for my venerable relative to introduce the subject.   OAKRIDGE.        1405 As soon as we had returned to the parlor, she did so, and in a manner which left no room for doubt as to her wishes and intentions respecting her. "Did"-you find among the papers of Mr. Oakridge a sketch of a young girl at her studies?" she asked. "Yes, of -my cousin Maline," I answered.- ' You know the- picture, then. -What did you think of it?" she continued. ("It is surpassingly lovely," I replied. "The original is more so, as you shall see directly. I am a woman of few words," she said, " and come at once to the point. You will not fail to admire Maline; but my hope is, as you are doubtless aware from what Mr. Oakridge communicated: to you, that you will look upon your cousin with a warmer feel- ing than that of admiration. I want you to love her, James, with your whole heart and soul and being, and to take her to yourself, and to make for her a future that shall be all joy and sunshine, such a future as she cannot fail to make for him whom she shall honor with the name of her husband, if he prove worthy of her love." She had not said that she wished me to make her my wife; and I confess that a little pang went over me when she suggested the possibility that any one else might call her by that name. I was already half in love with a girl I had never seen. "Her picture is- certainly very lovely," I said, endeavoring to appear unconcerned. "When can I see her? - Have you told her -that you were expect- ing a visit from me?"   *4056       OAKRIDGE. "She does not know that there is such a person as yourself in existence," she-answeredn; , *and she will come into your presence totally unaware that she is to-meet any one, much less the man whom' I have destined for her life-companion. We may look for -her at any -moment." Herf intention was plain enough now. I was con- scious that I blushed when she made it known to me. I was conscious, too, that I heard it with no little satisfaction. "If you will let a servant fetch my travelling-bag, I would like to arrange my dress a little," I said. "Ah! Already- anxious to look at your best " she answered,. smiling. "It augurs well for the suc- cess of my match-making." As she rose for the purpose of calling a servant, a side-door opened, and Maline herself entered the room. She paused as her eye fell on me, and would have retreated; but Inez -(I prefer to call her so) bade her come forward, which she did without hesitation or embarrassment. "This is Maline, Mr. Leroyd," said Inez. I b6wed; and the young lady courtesied. ' "Not so formal, my children. It is time that you knew   each other well," continued Inez. "Shake hands, and inquire after each other's well-being." Maline at once gave, me her hand, saying, with a silvery laugh, , How do you do, Mr, Leroyd?" "How   do- you do, Miss "--I began, but paused at the surname. "Call her Maline," said Inez. "She knows no  i other name."   OAKRIDGE.        :407' "    ,How sdo you do, Maline?" I ,said, "since our aunt wil: have me call you so." ;' "OiR AUNT,'" she repeated,    "You bring a mystery with you, sir." . " She has always called me ' mother-,'" said Inez, with a touch of sadness in her voice.  "I have hesi- tated to tell her that the relation -I sustain towards -her is not so near or so holy as that. It-is time that she knew her history, James; and I will leave you for a little while, that you may make her acquainted with it."  . She went out of the room, leaving us, who had met for the first time, alone together. Maline looked at me with surprise. -There was no embarrassment in her manner ; but the long lashes of her beautiful -eyes were upturned, and her lovely face was all aglow with the fever of expectation.- ";It is true, Maline," I said, '" the mother superior is your aunt and mine. Come and sit beside me while -I tell you of the past, as the dear lady has asked me to do."                   .  She seated herself beside- me. How very beauti- ful she was ! The picture, as Inez had said, did not nearly do her justice. No picture could. It was with difficulty that I could keep the delight I: felt from showing itself in my looks. I told Mhr then all that I knew of the- life-histories of her parents, of the sad tragedy that had made her an orphan, of the manner in which she had come to be an inmate of the Convent of St. Agatha; and incidentally I spoke to her of Oakridge and myself,   408        OAKERIDGE. and how it had happened, that, through all these years, I had never sought her out. She listened attentively, without saying, a word; but her eyes were filled with tears during the recital; and when I closed by telling her that henceforth we must be near and dear to each other, and try and make up in the future for the long separation of the past, she only said, -- "It seems so strange to me, my cousin! Your coming has already turned the course of my life into another channel. Only an hour ago, I was Maline of St. Agatha, a happy little girl, without a thought outside of Mother Inez, save when at my devotions or at my studies. Henceforth I am to know myself as Miss Creamore, to see in the mother superior, not rI my mother, but the sister of my mother,. and in you the son of yet another sister, and to feel that my world is not circumscribed by the limits of the convent- grounds. How kind and good to me Mother Inez has been! - to take me, a little waif, and rear m'e as her own through all these years.-- Let me go to her, that I may tell her how lovingly I cherish her. I will come back to you directly." She was gone a few minutes only;- but it seemed long to me. When she returned, Inez accompanied her. Evidently they had both been shedding tears; but they were tears of joy. It was a relief to Inez to know that Maline was familiar with her history, and to find that she still clung to her with all the old-time faith and love. It was joy to Maline to have the mother superior fold her to her bosom, and shed   OAKRIDGE.        409 over her the warm tears of an undying affection, And, as I looked at them, the thought occurred to . me, how much the sadness of Inez' life must have ' been lightened since she had had this child upon whom to lavish the love-wealth of a heart that was maternal altogether. My opinion of Inez had changed.  : Maline came to me at once, 'and, extending her hand, said, "I left you, dear cousin, without thank- ing you for your kindness in telling me so- much of my parents and myself. Please forgive my thought- lessness, and accept my thanks now." "You must love each other dearly, my children;   ; for I have set my heart upon it," said Inez. Again a tell-tale blush overspread my countenance;  but Maline's did not change in the least. She had not comprehended the meaning of the remark, as I  had.  It was now nine o'clock; and, knowing the -con- : vent-rules, I rose to go, intending to lodge at the  ; inn in the village; but Inez would not suffer it. "You will remain here to-night," she said. " You  can occupy Father Ryan's room, if you do knot too much fear a crucifix and the images of saints." ' * : "I believe I shall become a Romanist myself," I answered her, " if all of the faith are like those - whom it has been my fortune to meet." ' "Are you not of our faith?" asked Maline. . "We worship the same triune God, and repeat   it day by day the same creed," I answered; and she  seemed satisfied.      . And so I lodged for that night in the Convent of St. : 3 5     "' *: ' ', f.   "O        OAXRIbDGE. Agatha, under the same roof with Maline. It was long before I fell asleep; for my mind and heart were filled with the beautiful vision. I resolved, if it were possible, that I would win the treasure of her love, and wear it in my heart. The next morning I arose early. :I had deter- mined that it would be the better policy to take my departure as soon as I had broken my fast, pro his- ing to return after a little while. I knew that Ma- line had never thought of an earthly love outside of 'that for Inez; whom she had called her mother; but I believed that the books which I had brought -her, and the influence of Inez, and the fact that I had, as it were, entered into her life, would soon lead her thoughts into the channel where I would have them turn. I had as yet said nothing to her of the gifts I had brought, wishing first to ask Inez wheth- er she were willing that I should present them. Early as it was, I found that Inez had already risen. She was awaiting me in the parlor. "What think you of my little one?:' were the words with which she greeted me. "I am going to run away from her, hoping she may miss me," I answered. "You are wise to do so," she said; "but you must return in four weeks. It will be: May  Day then; and you can cover her with flowers. I will see that she don't forget you in the mean time," she added with a smile. "But does not your Church prohibit the marriage of first-cousins?"I asked, thinking of Maline more than of Inez.   OAKRIDGE.         4" "Yes, and of second-cousins too, for that matter," he-answered. -"But I am of those who do not look ipon marriage as a sacrament, and think the canon- aw of the. Church as to the marriage of cousins ,bsurd and unfounded. The Levitical law does not Prohibit: such marriages; and it cannot but be that "persons may lawfully marry, but such as are pro- Libited by God's law. Such is the rule of the church of England; and such is the law of the and. I never could understand how it happened hat the prohibition crept-, into the law of the ,hurch. They who enacted it were wiser in their [ay and generation than the children of light." "But may not Maline   have scruples on the ,oint?"I continued. "4She will be guided in every thing by me, and    . :nows no more about the canon-law of the Church han she does of the pandects of Justinian. So set our mind at rest on that point, and think only of   ! Tinning the heart. The hand will follow as a mat-   - er of course," she answered. I asked her then about the- books and the jewels, 7o the portrait I knew she could not object. "I have read the most of Scott's novels myself, nd see nothing objectionable in them," she said. Heretofore I have not allowed Maline to read any    : ctitious works, thinking it better -that she should   ot do so until she was of an age when her attention-  vould, not be thereby diverted from her studies. . he is now eighteen; and I shall not object, under . -- : he circumstances, if she should get a few romantic *. "   "2        OARIDGE.; notions in that dear little head of he rs. As to the jewels, the gifts of her mother to yours, I think it kind and thoughtful in you to have brought them. You may not know that her own mother never wore jewels-of any kind, so that Maline has inherited none. You had better, perhaps, present-to her, this morning, the portrait and the jewels only: the novels I win give her, as from you, after you have gone away."' I caused'the portrait to be unboxed, and brought into the parlor. The casket containing the jewels I placed open on the table. A little while after- wards Maline came in. She had no sooner looked at the picture than she exclaimed, "; My mother!" and, standing before it, she gazed a long time at the beautiful face so like her own. "It is to your kindness that I owe this pleasure, dear cousin. How can I ever repay you?" she said, turning to me. "By thinking of me once in a while," I answered. "I shall think of you always," she said. She little knew what joy the words gave me. "James has brought you these jewels also, Ma- line," said Inez. "They were gifts of your mother to his; and he thought you would value them as memorials." 'How kind you are!" she said, taking them one by one from the casket, with a look of grateful pleasure on her fresh young face. "You must pierce my ears, and give me pain, to offset all this pleasure, lest I get- wild with so much happiness."   OAKRIDGE.        ; 413 I absolutely refused to be a party to any such bar- barity, assuring her that I could never forgive myself if I thought I had inflicted pain upon her. , Well, Sister Mary will do it; won't she, mother?" she asked. "Perhaps so," said Inez, leading the way to the refectory. We breakfasted together. As soon as the meal was concluded, I commenced to make my adieus. "4 Why do you leave us, James?'" asked Maline. "4 It is too bad to find a cousin, after so long, only to lose him again so soon. You will make us wish that you had not come at all." "I will come back aoain a few weeks hence," I said, " after your ears have quite recovered from Sister Mary's barbarity." Maline said no more ; but I could see that there was a look of disappointment in her face. I was selfish enough to be delighted at it; and I went- away far from sorrowing. Four weeks later I returned, as Inez had re- quested. My second visit was of longer duration than my first. Before the end of it, Maline had promised to be my wife; but she made it a condition, that, so long as Inez lived, she should not be asked to leave her. I did not attempt to gainsay her resolu- tion: I loved her, if possible, the more for it. Inez tried to persuade her that her duty lay in another direction; but the gentle girl remained firm, and for nearly two years watched over the mother of her adoption. About the end of that time, Inez, who , - as    "4        OAKRIDGE. had been feeble for some months, began to fail rap- idly. I was at the convent at the time, and remained there till- she died. She knew that her end was approaching, and expressed the wish that we might be wedded before she passed away,  Father Ryan, a holy man,had been in constant attendance upon her; and at her request, a few -hours before her spirit left its mortal frame, we were married by him at the bed- side of the dying saint. He knew nothing of the relationship: existing between Maline' and myself, and nothing of the difference in our faith; or, if he did, he kept the knowledge in his heart, and, like Inez, ignored the absurd canon of his Church. Nearly thirty years have passed since then. They have been years of uninterrupted happiness to Maline and myself. We have seen our children grow up about us, strong men and beautiful women; and now, as I write, two sturdy little grandchildren, a boy and a girl, are playing on the floor at my feet. One bears the name of Oakridge, and the other is called Inez. These are favorite names in our fami- lies, and will remain so for generations to come. I have just read to Maline what I have thus far written of this chapter. "Was I so beautiful thirty years ago, as you have pictured me, dear husband?" she asks. "Yes, and as beautiful still, my dearest," I answer her. "We have been very happy through all these years, have we not?"she adds. "Yes, and let us thank God for it!" is my reply.   OAKRIDGE.       ' 415 "Yes, thank God for it!" she says, with a look full of love and joy ; and the little ones on the floor looking up at us in their innocence, and, catching our words, say,-- "Yes, thank God for it " THE END.    
         
       
   
