
    ----CITATION----
        Barrington, F. Clinton. The Young Fisherman, or, The Cruiser of the English Channel .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7458
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The young fisherman, or, The cruiser of the English Channel 
            
               M " ,
Y   Y  ,Yt s

THE

I

OR
1jttruiser of tlje Englishi thanud.
A r@T $773 l ETE

BY F. CLINTON BARRINGTON.

BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY F. GLEASON,
OFFICE OF THE PICTORIAL DRAWING ROOM COMPANION,
MUSEUM     BUILDING, TREMONT STREET.
1851.
-.ntered according to Act of Congress, in. the year 181, by F. Gleason, in the Clerk's Ofjice of the
District Court of Maseachuseus.
9r

ti',
M     tYj
1.,
1tM1 i
f ('+
.. f


PUBLISHER'S NOTE.-The following Novelette was originally published in THE PIcTORIAL
DRAWING ROOM COMPANION, and is but a specimen of the many deeply entertaining Tales,
and gems of literary merit, which grace the columns of that elegant and highly popular journal.
The CouANION embodies'a corps of contributors of rare literary excellence, and is regarded
as the te plus ultra, by its scores of thousands of readers.

GLEASON'S PICTORIAL
2  Iiecorb of the beautiful anb useful in Art.

THE object of this paper is to present, in the most elegant and available form, a weekly lit-
erary melange of notable events of the day. Its columns are devoted to original tales, sketches,
and poems, by the
BEST AMERICAN AUTHORS,
and the cream of the domestic and foreign news ; the whole well spiced with wit and humor.
Each paper is
with numerous accurate engravings, by eminent artists, of notable objects, current events in
all parts of the world, and of men and manners, altogether making a paper entirely original in
its design in this country. Its pages will contain views of every populous city in the known
world, of all buildings of note in the eastern or western hemisphere, of all the principle ships
and steamers of the navy and merchant .service, with fine and accurate portraits of every noted
character in the known world, both male and female. Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from
life, will also be given, with numerous specimens from the animal kingdom, the birds of the air,
and the fish of the sea. It is printed on the finest of paper, and with a font of copper-faced
brevier type of the most modern style, and manufactured expressly for it, presenting in its
mechanical execution an elegant specimen of art. It will contain fifteen hundred and sixty-four
square inches, and sixty-four columns of reading matter and illustrations-a mammoth weekly
paper of sixteen octavo pages. It will form
inasmuch as its aim is constantly, in connection with the fund of amusement it affords, and the
rich array of original miscellany it presents, to inculcate the strictest and highest tone of
morality, and to encourage virtue by holding up to view all that is good and pure, and avoiding
all that is evil in its tendency. In short, the object is to make the paper loved, respected, and
sought after for its combined excellences.
T E R M S:-Invariably in Advance.
For four months,     .      .     .      .     .     .      .     -      $1 00
i eight  "     .     .     .      .                  .      .     -   2  00
twelve "         .      .     .      .     .      .     .     .       3 00
No reduction made from the above terms, either to agents or clubs, and no travelling agent is
employed or recognized by the proprietor.
[j- The PIcTotAL DRAWING RooMt COMPANION may be obtained at any of the periodical
depots throughout the country, and of newsmen, at ten cents per single copy.
Published every Saturday, by                         F. GLEASON, BosTON, MAss.
WHOLESALE AGENT.S.,
8. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce Street, New York.
A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
H. TAYLOR, Jarvis Building, North Street, Baltimore.-
R. E. EDWARD)S &amp; Co., 93 Third Street, Louisville, Ky.
EDWARDS &amp; COMPANY, 115 Main Street, Cincinnati.
J. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.
E. K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Streets, St. Louis.
a7 Subscriptions received at either of the above places

I,

CHAPTER 1.
CASTLE VANE-A YOUNG FISHERMAN.

N  the   shores  of waters of the channel, broad and mirror-like,
Sussex, there is no and bounded in the far southern horizon by the
object  that  fills faint azure-gray line of the coast of Normandy.
\                     with a deeper inter- The glimmering sheen of the sun-lit channel is
est the eye of the spotted with innumerable; specs, some white as
tourist, both on ac- snow-flakes, others black as they presented their
count of its pictur- illumined or shadomly side to the eye. There
esque aspect and its are vessels of all sizes and characters, steering
historical associa- every one on a different course, some on errands
tions, than Castle of commerce, others bearing messages of war.
]                Vane. At the pres- Here and there among them goes a dark, mast-
mat-eat time it is a less craft, trailing a long cloud of opaque smoke
stately ruin, butyet after her along the air, and passing ship after
majestic in its de- ship with a speed which mocks them.
.  .cay. Time, while                       Such is the present aspect of the scenery visi-
rending its massive towers. has also bound them ble from the cliff on which stands Castle Vane,
together with strong net-work of vines of ivy on any bright morning in summer. But at the
and creeping plants. so that they stand like ven- period of our tale, its features were somewhat
crable age supported by the entwining .arms'of different. No steamers then ploughed the chan-
charity and filial love.                    nel, and fewer vessels were seen dotting its ex-
The prospect from the eminence on which panse; while Castle Vane, instead of being a
stands this noble ruin is varied and wide-extend- ruin, lifted its walls and towers and bristling
ed. Nprthwardly, the green vales and pleasant battlements as high and proudly as any lordly
uplands of "Merry England" retire away till castle in the land of England.
softly lost in the dissolving distance. To the  'Almost overhung by the castle was the small
east and west are seen turreted towns and ports fishing port of Brighthelmstone, a hamlet of
with anchored shipping and defending fortresses. thfeescore huts, where dwelt a rude,-but honest
To the south is outspread the shining blue class of men, who subsisted by fishing in the

'p"
It

R

,'r
' '
w
, '
'   4
[t  t'
1!e  ?,

,;
;,
Y

r©jj c nh11D
k


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

channel. From the terrace of the castle one
could toss a. penny into the chimney-tops of twor
or three of the nearest cottages, though the t
dwellings were generally some distance apart,e
following the windings of a street around these
curving shore of the cove. There was an air ofs
neatness and thrift about most of the habita-
tions, each having a small garden patch and a
yard in front wherein to dry their nets and fish.
If there was any superiority in the appearances
of either of these cabins over the other, it was toI
be claimed by one which stood near the foot of
the cliff, and close to the path which wound
from the beach to its summit. This superiority
consisted in its being whitewashed, and in hav-
ing vines growing over the narrow doorway in
imitation of an arch, beneath which were two
wooden benches, from which, persons seated
upon them had a pleasant view of the channel
with its moving craft. .That spot, also, wherein
the other fishermen dried their nets, was by the
proprietor of this abode made a flower-garden,
while on the surrounding rocks were spread his
nets and sun-dried fish.
One evening in'May, in the year 1650, about
half'an hour before sunset, a fishing boat came
sailing into the cove from the channel, and
steered directly for the rude landing in front of
the cottage we have described. Its bow was
shattered, and it was evidently leaking freely,
and kept from sinking only by the extraordinary
exertions .of a young fisherman, who was its sole
occupant, and who was bailing out water con-
stantly as he approached the shore. At length
the smack touched the beach, and with an ex-
clamation of satisfaction the young man leaped
on shore.
The danger in which the boat had been was
apparent to more than one. in the village, and
encouraging shouts had been sent to the young
man's ear, to keep up his strength and not lose
his- courage. Therefore, on reaching the land in
safety, he found him~eItin the midst of some
score of a group, composed of the fishers' wives,
of maidens, and of such old men as had given
over active service. They looked at- the shat-
tered bow of the boat with surprise, and while-
some congratulated him with having got safely
to land, others eagerly inquired how he had got
so badly wrecked.                 .
"It is of no consequence, friends," answered
the young map, as he secured the boat to oso of
the posts of the pier, " accidents will happen at
sea, you know."
"

This was said with a pleasant laugh; but his
mother, who drew near to welcome -him after
the danger she conceived he had been in from
drowning-for he had been seen by her a league
at sea, struggling to save his boat, which he had
so gallantly brought in-knew that the smile
was forced and unnatural to his usually frank
and open face.
"There is something'in this," she said, shak-
ing her head and turning to two of her particu-
lar gossips, " there is something in this matter
more than Guilford sees fit to tell."
The young man, having secured the craft high
up on the beach and furled the sails, shouldered
a pair of oars, and with a flushed brow, and a
proud, defiant air, strode up towards the cottage,
without regarding his friends, whom he left ex-
amining the boat and wondering how it could
have been so shattered unless it had been run
into.
" That is it," asserted an old fisherman, who
had carefully examined the broken shearing
"she ha' been run into, an' by a heavier craft
than hersel'."
The young fisherman, having deposited his
oars in the becket above one of the cottage win-
dows, on the .outside of the house, instead of
going in, began to pace up and down in the lit-
tle shell-covered walk before it. His eyes were
restless and fiery, his attitude erect and warlike,
and his heavy step seemed to fall to the sound
of a trumpet. Something evidently had occurred
to rouse in the bosom of the young fisherman all
the pride, independence, and haughty resent-
ment of the man;' for beneath the fustian jacket
may beat as much pride and sense of honor as
beneath the ermine of a born noble.
The appearance of the young fisherman was
superior to that of young men of his class and
occupation. This superiority did not consist in
dress, for his clothing was as coarse and rude as
that of any of his fellows; nor in the symmetry
of his person, for there were in the hamlet as
well shaped young men as he ; but it was in the
noble expression of his whole form and face.
He looked like one born rather to command
those with whom he daily associated, than to be
merely their equal. This innate power in him
they recognized, though it was never demanded
by him, for he seemed wholly unconscious of a
superiority of which all others in the hamlet
were instinctively conscious. His face was
handsome, and perhaps'not less so for being
browned by the sea winds till it was almost as

L

S , i'

I

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN

dark as the Arabian. His eyes were black, and
filled with intelligence and courage. As a sea-
man he had no equal on the Sussex coast, of
his age, all men acknowledged. As a fisherman
he was skilled in the craft, in all its details, so
that no one ever surpassed him in success. If
other boats came back empty, Guilford Gra-
ham's was sure to contain some fruits of his
skill and patience. In trials of strength and
agility in those holiday sports which the youths
of the hamlet used to indulge in, challenging to
competition some inland village, he always
came off victor. For filial obedience in support-
ing a widowed mother, for manly protection of
his beautiful cousin, Anne Graham, for his fast
abiding as a friend, and his reverence for holy
things, Guilford was an example to all the
young men on the coast. His popular manners,
his constant cheerfulness and good nature, made
him a general favorite; and many a pretty
maiden sighed in her heart for the love of the
handsome Guilford.
"What aileth thee, my son ?" asked his moth-
er. " Something hath gone across thy temper,
and made thee vexed,--tell me what is'the mat-
ter with thee ?"
He stopped in his fierce walk, turned, and
taking both her hands in his, he pressed them
with. affectionate respect, and looking her in the

face, would have spoken; but some strong emo
tion rising, checked his utterance, and tears
filled his eyes and ran down his cheeks. He re-
leased her hands, dashed the glittering drops
from his face, and would have walked away,
when she gently held him.
"Nay, Guilford, you must come and sit down
in the porch and tell me what has happened.
Tears in my brave boy's eyes! Ah, something
heavy has pressed upon thy soul this day, to
force tears from thee I"
" Come and sit down, mother, and I will tell
thee," he said, after a moment's internal struggle.
" You are wise and discreet, and may be able to
advise me, But you will not despise me when
you shall know all my rash folly ?"
"You must first prove to me that you have
been rash or foolish, who were never known to
be so," said his mother, who, though humble in
station and poorly attired, seemed to be, as he
had said, a wise and discreet woman ; being a
person of that plain common sense, so much
oftener found in low conditions of life, than in
the more artificial circles of society; and to her
influence was owed, doubtless, his superiority,--
for it is the woman that forms the character of
the growing man, and her plastic hand leaves
its impression on every moral outline.

-a

i
t
r
Max
r
P,
1
i
a
.1
t
f
at
Y  r  t
I
l r
1
J               i        /1

' '4
,


I

CHAPTER II.
A NARRATIVE OF INTEREST.
THE young man had led his mother to the    "You should not think of her, my son, for
wooden bench beneath the green arch that your words and looks make me fear."
spanned the humble doorway, and there, shel-  "No evil can conic of honoring and delighting
tered by the growing foliage, he said to her:  in Lady Catharine, dear mother. She always
" Mother, when you have heard what I have speaks to me so graciously. The day, you re-
to say, give me your wisest counsel. If I were member, when I succeeded in saving the noble-
to act, led only by my own impulses, I can see men who were driven on the coast in a French
plainly that I should do a greater evil than has barque, she told me she only wished that she
been done to me. You remember with what could have had a brother who could have done
buoyancy I left this morning to go on my daily this; and ever since then, although it is a year
fishing cruise ?"                          ago, she has always seemed to speak to me with
" Yes, and spoke of it to Anne before she a peculiar kindness."
went to the castle. Methinks I never saw you  " One of them that you saved was her uncle,
look handsomer or appear happier."         Sir Harry Vane, and she feels grateful. My
" And well might I have, looked happy, dear son, do not think of the great ; their words are
mother; I had just seen and spoken with Lady air, and their smiles deceit and guile. If you
Catharine !"                               go on thinking so much about every smile and
" Yes, it always makes one cheerful to see her word a noble lady gives you, you will do some
sunny face, boy."                          foolish thing. Forget the Lady Catharine, boy,
" Al, dear mother, you know not how the and if you must think of fair maidens, which is
sunshine of her face penetrates to and warms my natural enough for a youth of four-and-twenty,
heart. In her presence I feel a joy-a bliss-a let it be of those of thine own station."
happiness, that I experience at no other time. " There are tales'of noble maidens being loved
The sound of her voice thrills to my inmost soul. and won by lowly youths, mother," answered
I feel that I could worship her, and adore the Guilford, with a certain light of hope and daring
very flower crushed by her footstep."      sparkling in his fine eyes.
" You should not speak thus, nmy boy; it is a " And only in tales are they won-never in
sin to worship only God."                  reality and truth, my son."
"And the Virgin ?"                        "We will not talk of this now, mother. Hear
"That is not so certain, my boy," she said, what I have to say to thee touching what-hath
gravely but doubtingly ; "but if we may worship happened to-day."
the blessed Mary, we may not worship earthly  " That is what I would most listen to."
maidens."                                    " After I had embarked this morning for the
" I can see no harm in adoring one so fair and channel grounds to fish, and when I had got out
good as the Lady Catharine, dear mother," an- to the rocks over which we cast our lines, I
swered the young fisherman, with enthusiasm.  lowered my sails and proceeded to fish as usual.

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

11 r

It was a cloudless day, and the fish swam too the beauty and imploring looks of the lovely.
deep for my hooks, and so I lay back listlessly girl, which seemed to appeal to me as her last
in my boat, and amused myself, as I love to do and only hope of life, gave le courage, and
when I am rocking alone in my boat out on the strength ; and at length I brought the horse's
bounding sea, with gazing about me. A hun- head and knees to the ground, and held him
dred craft similar to my own were riding gently with a power of muscle that I have never felt
upon the undulating waves, and here and there the possession- qf since, until she got from the
could be seen a tall ship with triple towers of saddle unharmed. I then released my hold of
white canvass, crossing from England toFrance the horse, who furiously bounded away like the
or from France to England. But these objects wind. My next thought was of the young girl
soon wearied my eyes, which very shortly rested I had been instrumental in saving. She sprang
upon the cliff and lordly tower that soars above towards me, grasped me by both hands in the
our little hamlet. Its castellated angles and warmest manner, and with eyes filled with tears,
battlements were figured in strong, dark lines and smilingwith gratitude, sh said with emotion:
against the blue sky, and it seemed the proper  "'How can words thank you! How can any
home of the noble lord who dwells there."  thing I can express, young stranger, recompense
" You speak of our Castle Vane, my son."  you for the risk of life you have run for me!'
"Yes, another. As my eyes rested upon it, I  " I need no thanks, lady," I said to her, " the
could not but recall its fairest inmate; for J consciousness of your safety is all the reward I
never behold it that I do not think less of every can ask-or wish for."
one it contains than of the Lady Catharine. To " As I made her this answer, I looked, dear
my imagination she seems the only dweller mother, with wonder upon the extraordinary
there. Nay, do not frown, mother. As I was beauty of her face. I had never imagined there
gazing on the castellated pile, I recalled, not was such loveliness on earth. She was about*
only the lovely face and form of Lady Catha- fifteen years of age, but with the charming rich-
rine, but the time when we first met. Do you ness of form of one two or three years older.
remember it, dear mother!"                 Her eyes were a soft azure, that rivalled the
"Nay, I do not mind such little matters. It bending blue of a summer sky on the sea. Her
was so long ago thou shouldst scarce remind it." hood was thrown back, and her golden tresses
"I shall never forget it. It is a delight for dishevelled by the swiftness with which her horse
me to recall it, and a joy to talk of it. It was had sped with her in his mad flight, and I was
five years ago only. I was then nineteen, and completely bewildered with the glory of her
it was my birth-day fete ; and on that occasion beauty.
you had presented me with a new jacket, and  "'Will you tell me,' she said in tones that
cousin Anne had 'broidered for me a gay cap." have never ceased to echo musically in my soul,
"Ah, well do I recollect the jacket and cap; 'to whom I am indebted for saving me from a
and how gallant you looked in them, my boy."  painful accident, or perhaps a dreadful death?'
"After supper I was going to a dance at Tim  " It is no matter, lady ; my name is nothing ;
Dowlin's, in donor of his pretty daughterPeggy's it is humble, and if spoken, will be forgotten by
marriage, when, as I was crossing the road that, one so noble as thou art.
leads from the beach round by the mill, in order "'Dost thou know me then ?' she asked, with
to reach Tim's-before dark, I saw a horse com- a smile of surprise. 'I have not been here be-
ing towards me at full speed along the old Sus- fore since I was a very little child.'
sex road. On it was a young girl, who had lost  " I do not know thy name, lady, but I see that
all command of the animal, who, with the reins thou art one of the high born of the land. I
flying, was evidently running away with her. would, for thy sake, that lie who has served
She did not shriek, nor speak a word, but as she thee to-day had been thy equal. Shall I remain
approached me she cast on me such looks of ap. near thee, as it is growing late, till thy party
peal for sucor, that, regardless of danger, I comes up,.I asked of her, something gloomily,
threw myself with both hands .upon the horse's too, I fear, for I then, for the first time, my
head, and dropping to the ground, let him drag mother, felt what it was to be born of low de-
me several yards before he could be checked. gree. To gaze upon one so fair and good, and
At every leap forward ie made, I expected to so made to be loved, and feel thlat I could never
feel his iron hoofs crushing into my chest; but be more to her than as a colimon hind-this-

.i
,
t-
T
u  ss.
f
,f
,
{
6
t
L
i
a43
L4
i
}7
? 7i
K
4   a
.f
s
T
SI
Ty ,

K_

r
,..


12                         THE    YOUNG    FISHERMAN.
this made my cheek kindle and my heart sink." and as I passed the spot where I had stopped
"Guilford, thou art too ambitious ; be con- the horse, I paused to recall the scene, her face
tent to be what thou art, or thou wilt be a mis- and voice. As I did so, my eyes were attracted
erable man. Thou cast not change thy nature. by something which sparkled in the moonlight.
Nobles are born nobles-fishermen are born fish- I picked it up from the ground, and with pleasure
ermen. Do thy duty in what thou art."      discovered that it was a broken ring. It had
" It is well to talk, mother, but that does not evidently been broken by her strong grasp upon
make one's wretchedness and consciousness of the"bridle, and dropped in two pieces from her
debasement the less."                      finger when she alighted. It was a diamond set
"Go on with thy story, for I never heard all in a circlet of pearls. I pressed it to my lips-"
this before."                                " Daring boy !" said the mother, half pleased
"No, nor other ear, save that of my cousin at his gallantry, yet half disapproving, knowing
Anne ; and she listened to it with but little in- as she did the dangerous tendency of such emo-
terest to what thou dost, mother."         tions, when once awakened in the bosom of a
" Who was this maiden ? am I right in guess- lowly born youth towards a high-born maiden.
ing it to be the Lady Catharine, on the day she She sighed while she smiled; but the smile
came up to the castle from London, where she passed, leaving a troubled air upon her calm
had lived since she was a child ?"         and sensible face. "You returned the ring, of
"Yes, mother. When I at length told her course, Guilford ?"
my name, she answered that hers was Kate     "When next I saw her; but she bade me
Vane."                                     keep it, or rather offered me one in its place, as
"Lady Kate, you mean ?"                  she saw I valued it as a memento; but when I
" No. She said plain Kate Vane; and this, told her I would prefer the broken one,found on
w th the pretty way she spoke it, made me like the spot where I had first the happiness of seeing
her. I saw she was not proud, although I told her, she told me I might keep it if I would."
her I was a fisherman ; for when she asked me I "And when and where did you meet her ?"
to show her the way to the castle, and we walked Only the next week after. I was coming in
on together, she asked me a great many ques- from the channel, and steered my boat closer
tions about the sea, and the fishes, and the way under the castle than usual, for I thought I saw
I caught them; and said,' of all things, she the form of a young girl on the white beach. I
should like to go out some day in my boat fish- was not deceived. It was the Lady Kate, gather-
ing with me. Well, after half an hour's walk- ing shells. Upon recognizing me sailing past,
the pleasantest half hour of my life, we reached she beckoned to me to land. I did so, for I
the castle gate. The day had already closed, wished to return the ring. She at once began
and the moon was shining brightly. The castle playfully to chide me for leaving the castle so
was in a scene of confusion and distress, and abruptly, without waiting to be thanked by her
just as we entered, several persons with torches, father and brother, andher friends for what I had
on foot and on horseback, were coming forth done. I told her I dia not wish to be thanked
talking so loudly that we understood from their at all; but if any one was to thank me, one word
words that the horse which Lady Kate had from her was a world of thanks. She then told
ridden had reached the castle, and that it was me that she had been riding with her elder
supposed she had been thrown and killed. But brother, who was an Oxford student, then at
when she was seen and recognized, who shall home on a visit, ahead of her party, when a shot
describe the joy. I was quite overlooked in the fired by him from his saddle at a heron, had
first outburst of the surprise and delight of all, caused her horse to take fright and run off with
and instantly withdrew. As I descended the her. 'My brother,' she said, 'followed me, but
path, I heard my name called by some one from as I turned to the left, while he took to the
the gate who had been sent for me, doubtless right, he missed me; and but for you I should
after Lady Kate had time to tell them to whom  have been killed, for I could not have.kept my
she had been indebted for her escape; but as I saddle three minutes longer, as I was fast losing
had no wish to be thanked by any other than all presence of mind. You must come up to the
Lady Catharine, I quickened my pace, and soon castle and let my father know you,' she added.
reached the road on the beach. Instead of going But I told her that I was too lowly to be no-
home, I continued my original route to Tim's; ticed by nobles, and that I was too proud to be

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

:i
, $

13

compelled to fel theiw superiority. At this, she of indifferent value,,j offered to bring her others
looked at me with a stare of beautiful surprise, from the king's rock beach, where they are to be
and shaking her head she said archly:      found with such rare colors. I then sailed to -
"' I fear you will be too proud to speak to me the beach and landed to take her basket, for our
by-and-by.'                                conversation had taken place while I was stand-
", no, you don't understand me, lady."  ing in my boat, about ten yards from the land,
"' Yes I do, and what is more, I respect you when a young man, clad as a hunter, followed by
for your feelings,' she added. *'I can coneeive a couple of dogs, came round a jutting angle of
how one like you must feel when you are com- the cliff. He was of the middle height, well
polled to endure the superiority of others, who made, with long flaxen hair flowing on his
may, in reality, he your inferiors. But you will shoulders, a brown moustache, and a fair, red
not find my father such a nobleman. He knows and white complexion. 'He was exceedingly
how to appreciate merit ; and as for my brother, handsome, but an air of angry surprise which he
I heard him say that he should find you out to put on upon discovering us, increased the dis-
thank you.'                                agreeable impression his naturally haughty bear-
"I then offered to her the ring, which, as I ing made upon me. I saw at a glance that he
said, she permitted inc to retain. Seeing that was a noble, and-the exclamation of Lady Kate,
she liked the beautiful shells which were scattered 'my brother!' told me who he was without
on the beach, of which she had a basket full, but further introduction."

' "'i
-
,
44
# l
r'j
1
r'
'  S
c
}t aro

4

1.
II'
I

L

t4

s
wf
3
t
f
tl 4
t
t
i
F$[ .
J Ux
47V
f
A
f
.t
l
V
n

Ya   }.

I


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.               15

" TIE young nobleman," resumed Guilford,
continuing his narrative to his mother, in the
green embowered porch of the cottage, "stood
for an instant regarding first one and then the
other of us without a word. He then strode up
and said haughtily:
"' What and who are you that are so familiar
as to hold converse with this lady, and with thy
cap on, fellow?' With these words he struck off
my cap to my feet, and one of his dogs taking it
up, carried it off, tearing it with his teeth.
"' Lord Wilmot, how can you be so rash!' ex-
claimed Lady Catharine, with a mingled ex-
pression of pain for me and anger against him.
* This is the young man, Guilford Graham.'
"' And who, pray, is Guilford Graham?' he
repeated, sarcastically. ,
"' Have you forgotten the name of the brave
youth who, at the risk of his own life, saved
mine?'
"' How should one remember every hind's
name ? So, young man, you are the clown that
risked your life and broke the jaw of the best
horse in my father's stud; for the horse came to
the castle with his jaw broken as with a sledge-
hammer, and we had to shoot him. You have
a hand like Samson. But you did the thing
well, though it cost a horse worth a thousand
guineas.
"'Brother, how can you speak of such a trifle,
when my life was at stake?'
"'Trne, but a discreet person should save one
and not destroy the other. There, fellow, are
four guineas! I dare swear thou hast not seen
so much gold together before, and that it would

take a year's fishing to give thee in hand the
same amount.'
" As he spoke, he threw the gold at my feet.
I did not notice it. I had felt insulted by his
manner as well as by his words, and by this act.
I did not deign to glance towards him; but I
looked in the face of Lady Catharine. Her eyes
were alight with just resentment. She felt that
I had been insulted, peasant as I was.'
"'Wilmot, why do you reward courage in
such a strange fashion ? One would fancy you
had found in this young'man a foe, rather than
one to whom you owe a debt of gratitude.'
"' Gratitude to one like him!' answered the
young Lord Vane, with a contemptuous glance
at the coarse apparel of Guilford. 'I have paid
him for his service in gold.. What fault can he
find ? By the rood ! it would seem, from the
familiar manner in which I found him holding
converse with you, Kate, that he presumed more
than becometh a hind. Fellow, get into thy
boat and begone ; and think not, because chance
hath made thee the mean instrument of saving
a high bornlady's life, that thou hast gage there-
from for speaking to her.'
"'He did but offer to collect shells for me,
brother,' said the Lady Catharine, reproachfully.
'I called to him. He is in no ways to blame.'
"' Then it is you who are to blame, to de-
scend to speak to a youth like this, who will
boast in the ale-houses among his fellows that
he hath held tryst with Lady Kate Vane.'
At these words, the eyes of the maiden flashed
fire, but instantly filling with tears, she said :
"'You are ungenerous, Rudolph.'

" In the meanwhile," said Guilford, addressing wiser and better than others, it is to her sweet
his mother, " I stood amazed and burning with teaching in those stolen hours which we have
indignation; and I really believe that if he had consecrated together to friendship."
not been the brother of the fair Lady Catharine, " Guilford ! you fill me with amazement. I
I should have struck him to -the earth for his in- tremble at what I hear you utter ! Can all this
suiting words to her. But finding that my pres- be so? Yet it must be; you could not deceive
ence only made him  more bitter towards her, me;~and besides, I have now in my mind nu-
and fearing a collision, which might render it merous little circumstances which the revelation
necessary for me to strike him in self-defence, I on your part gives me a full explanation of.
got jnto my boat, but taking the basket with me, How wonderful it all is! You, my son-the
resolved to redeem my promise to bring it to son of an humble fisherman, the chosen friend
her-on some more propitious day, filled with the and confidant of a noble and high born maiden,
shells she so greatly admired. I therefore made the daughter of a lord ! It is difficult to believe
sail and left them upon the beach at the foot of it. But it is said woman's heart, when it chooses,
the castle; but soon I saw them together mak- looks not to title nor rank, nor dress, but for a
ing their way up the path to the gate-way of the kindred heart; and perhaps that, though one is
round tower."                              born in the castle, and the other at the foot of
" And then you made an enemy of young Lord the castle, the same spirit may be animating
Vane forever."                             your bosoms. But the Lady Kate is young;
"It may be so. He soon afterwards left for she has seen but little of the world. She is
Oxford, where he has remained the most of the hardly conscious of the impassable gulf that lies
time until three days ago, when he returned."  between you and her own high station. This
"Did you receive and take away the gold ?" romance, sweet and pleasant as it has been to
"No; I saw him stoop and gather it up after you, must be broken. Her hand will be asked
I had sailed away. The obligation to me, by some proud noble, and she will give it to him,
therefore, on his part, remained in full force as and then she will be ashamed that she has been
at first."                                 so foolish as to descend to your level. - Trust
"And hast thou seen the Lady Catharine me, my dear boy, this wild dream must be
since then, my son ?" asked his mother earnestly. broken. Let me advise you to see her no more
" Often and often, dearest mother; for it was Better for your own feelings that you withdraw
not many days afterwards that I left for her now from an intimacy that cannot be perpetual,
upon the beach, while, from the terrace of the and which is so extraordinary, than wait to be
castle, she was looking down and saw me, the cast off with infamy. She is now nineteen, and
basket of shells, which I soon beheld her descend what pleased her at fifteen, may disgust her
and take up. I have met her in the forest path; now."
I have seen her at the castle on gala-days; I  " You do not know her, my dear mother," an-
have encountered her on the snowy beach by swered the young man, his handsome face light-
moonlight."                               ing up with generous warmth in defence of Lady
"You meet the Lady Catharine by moon- Kate. "She feels no differently towards me
light ? You say what oversteps the truth, I fear." now than at all' other times.' She will never
"Nay, mother, we have often met, and walked give her hand to any noble of them all."
and discoursed together upon the glorious works  " This is a bold speech. Wouldst thou bind
of nature, the majesty of the sea, the mystery of 'her to thyself, Guilford? If, in the innocence
the stars, the delights of friendship, the bliss of and frankness of her nature, she has given her
heaven, and upon everything good and beauti- regards to the humble -youth to whom she feels
ful. Ah, mother, it has been to me as if for the she owes her life, are you so ungenerous as to
three years past I had been permitted to have take advantage of her gratitude, which, it would
companionship with an angel of intelligence and seem, is ready to give herself with it, in order
love. 0, how she has elevated my soul, ex- that you may have the selfish pleasure of feel-
panded my mind, enlarged my views, purified ing that you are loved by a high-born maiden ?*
the gross in me, and cultivated the virtues, which  "Mother you do me injustice. You do not
knew not how to grow aright. If I am superior understand either me or the Lady Catharine. I
to what I then was, if Iam called by-the villagers have bound her by no pledges. I have dared to

It
f4

k

CHAPTER XIII.
A HAUGHTY INTERRUPTION.

I

l
i
i
''
t     f
PCT
.y?
e
{
7
e    '
I
A (f
'#
1
i
' 17{ C
1
_
r
B
:
4
'
r
,I
t


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

exact no promises from her. I have not thought
of any happiness or consummation of our pure
friendship, beyond the sweet bliss of the present
hour."
" You are then i oth rash and imprudent. You
are wasting a gene ous heart upon one who can
never be more to yot. than she now is, and she
is wasting upon you infections which can never
find their fruition; for the natural tendency of
such attachments as it appears exist between
you and Lady Catharin., is a union by marriage,
and to this result the opposite ranks you occupy

in society must forever put a bar. You, there-
fore, are doing her irreparable injury, and en-
dangering the wreck of her whole life's happi-
ness, by encouraging by your continued presence
in her society, a passion which can only end in
sorrow, tears and wretchedness to you both."
"I see-I see, dear mother ! Your words
have opened my eyes. I behold my position as
you behold it, and am conscious that it is a false
one. Mother, I will see her no more-no more-
no more !"

. x  i
c
i  =_
1'.
l
c y
, lei'

I.

CHAPTER IX.

A MOTHElIS COUNSEL.
THE young fisherman uttered the last word Shall I cease my interviews with her without a
in a tone of sadness, and with his forehead word of explanation ? Shall I add to our sep-
bowed down upon his mother's hand, on which ration the barb of suspicion that I have done
hot tears dropped one after the other like rain. aught that makes me ashamed to see her-or
" Thou hast spoken well ; thou hast spoken that she has given me aught of offence? Nay,
like a man. Heaven give thee strength to abide it is becoming that we meet once more-to part
by thy words," she said, impressively.     forever."
" No more ! " he repeated in tones of unutter- , " Perhaps you are right, my son. I will trust
able anguish. " I see that I shall destroy her to your good sense that this interview be so con-
hopes, her happiness, her future, if I suffer this ducted as to release you both from any indiscreet
mad dream of bliss to go on. But it- will rend pledges of fidelity into which you may both have
my heart 1"                                unadvisedly fallen. When will youhave this
" Nay, be strong in a sense of rectitude and interview ?"
manly consciousness of acting right. Thou wilt  " This very night."
not hesitate to sacrifice thyself for her, if thou " The sooner the better for you both. Now,
lovest her !"                              my boy, explain to me what you began to do
"Love her !"                             when we sat down here--how your boat came
"Then reflect that it is for her whom you so dreadfully wrecked."
love you make this sacrifice of never beholding  "I deserved it, I see, since we have had this
her more. As it is, she can never marry in her talk together. I will explain in a few words.
own rank as becomes her, for thou hast her You know, perhaps, that young Lord Rudolph
heart, for which, nevertheless, thou canst give has returned to the castle within a few days ?"
her no return." ,                            " I heard so from your cousin' Anne."
" No' return ! True-true. , I can give her  " Anne? yes, she knows- everything that goes
only my heart- again. I have no rank, no ens- on at Castle Va-ne."
ties, no place at court, no historic name, no  "Anne speaks of the Lady Catharine in the
wealth, no power to return to her. Mother, you warmest praise."
are wiser than I-far wiser. The dream is past;  "How can any one do otherwise ? All love
I will see her but once more !"            her who approach her; and, alas, all may ap-
"Nay, not that once I"                  roach her hereafter but me. I alone am to be
"Can I steal from her away dear mother? exiled from her sweet presence' But hear what

f
I-

=      ._
;        i
_

,ifi
i,'
, -
F     -
_ .
T
'Y
,
s.
:
r'
, ,
+

i

i
,A
ga
t
i
'Y
i
i
V
i
S
N
r 1
r
tr
r
1

16

t

z

:


19

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

I have to say touching the injury done to my afraid I should he caught by it, and so I ex-
boat. While I was listlessly rocking on the changed it for the boat. I see you have some
swell, waiting for the fish to take the hook, and beautiful shells.'
gazing upon the towers of the castle, and think-  " Yes, Lady Kate," I answered, with that
ing of Laidy Catharine, I fell asleep and dreamed. trembling of the voice without which I never
I dreamed that I had won her hand, and that I could speak to her. I have some here we have
led her up to the high altar in Westrainster Ab- never seen. But you do not get a good view
hey, where a mitred archbishop united us in holy of the castle so nearly under it; let me push out
marriage. I recollect that the king was present further from the shore, so that you can embrace
and all his nobles, and-"                  the whole at one view.
The king !" exclaimed his mother, with sur- " She thanked me; and getting into the boat,
prise, "you know we have no king; the judges I pushed from the beach, and hoisting the sail,
have put him to death."                    ran out a hundred fathoms and there brought
"I know it, mother; but in my dream I saw  my little vessel to, and sat down and watched
the king, or a king, and lie seemed to smile on her, as with taste and skill she transferred the
me, and to give me honor with the proudest of outlines of her father's castle to a leaf of the
his nobles ; and 1 thougfit I was clad in the portfolio before her. While she drew we eon-
robes of an earl, and wore an earl's coronet."  versed, I know not about what; but the time
" These dreams are nothing, my son."     flew by unmarked. She had finished her sketch,
"But this made a deep impression upon me and was admiring its faithfulness, when a flaw
when I awoke ; but I must confess my heart of wind suddenly struck us from the gap in the
sank within me when my opening eyes fell only cliff, and blew so hard that I was comp.lled to
upon my coarse fishing clothes and poor fishing run before it for ten or twelve minutes. But
boat, with the few lines and hooks and tubs after getting an offing of half a league, it de-
that constituted all my earthly wealth."   creased so much in strength that I was able to
",A fit gift to bestow upon a noble bride, lay up to it, and prepared to return to the foot
Guilford," said his mother, in a slightly ironical of the castle rock. But Lady Kitte, seeing the
tone, quite unusual to her. " Take, a lesson danger was passed, and delighted at finding her-
from your dream, and let your common sense self so far out in the channel, entreated me not
see that you are never likely to exchange your to return immediately, but sail farther out and
poor estate as a fisherman for the regal splendor let her try and catch a fish or two with me. To
you beheld in Westminster Hall."           this I consented, and reaching the fishing ground,
" You are right, mother. I will try and im- I was soon engaged in teaching her how to
press the lesson upon my heart. It was past catch the fish, which now began to take thehook
noon when I awoke, and I foumd that the flood freely. While we were thus engaged. my whole
tide had swung my vessel close in under the thoughts full of the happy consciousness of her
land, and that Castle Vane was towering high presence, we were suddenly startled by a loud
in the air above my head. As the day was still shout. Looking up, I beheld a green gilded
cloudless and unfit for fishing, I landed and yacht of about twenty tons burthen, standing
roamed along the beach, and endeavoring to de- towards us at a rapid rate, hauled close on her
tect traces of the small footstep which had the wind. At her helm I recognized the haughty
evening before wandered there by my side. I figure of Lord Rudolph, whose face was livid
also gathered every pretty shell that met my eye with fierce passion. There were half a dozen
for the grotto which Lady Catharine was making other persons on board, four of whom were the
in the garden of the castle. In this pleasurable crew. -.He steered straight for me, and I saw
occupation the afternoon wore away, and at that his intention was to sink me. He called
length I returned to my boat. But imagine my me by all manner of opprobrious epithets as he
joy when I beheld the Lady Catharine seated in came near, and I perceived that he was bent on
it, engaged in sketching thec astle and rock.  equally destroying' both Lady Catharine and
"' I saw your boat, and took the liberty, Guil- myself. My sails were bailed up, and I had no
ford,' she said, smiling in that captivating way, time to get out of his way; but seeing he was
which almost made me lose my senses. 'I at I aiming to strike me amidships, I succeeded with
first stood on the large stone half surrounded by # an oar in turning the bow of my boat so as to
the water there, but the tide coming in, I was receive the shock there. The moment of collis-

I

Y
t
'F
,
G
.
t
I
i
t

ion. two of the crew, by his previous order. the spell effectually. Doubtless she, as well as
sprang on board, and taking the Lady Catharine yourself, has never asked of her heart or judg-
up, regained the yacht with her. The shock ment where all this would end."
drove the bows of my boat in, and she began to  " I will see her once more, and then we part
fill. The yacht, recoiling from the contact, glid- forever-unless-"  Here a certain proud light
ed past across the bows, and as Lord Vane shone in his fine eyes, and he rose to his feet.
saw inc making efforts to keep my boat from  "Unless what, Guilford '" asked his mother,
going down, he laughed like a fiend, and then with anxiety, fearing all his resolutions were
deliberately aiming a short gun at me, discharged about to be turned into thin air.
it. I should have beei killed by the ball if I had " Unless I can render myself worthy of her,
not thrown myself upon my face.            mother !"
"IWorthy of her ! Indeed, so far as truth and
[SiE ENGRAVING-]honor and manly comeliness are concerned ,you-
" The next moment the yacht was far to leo- are worthy the love of any maiden, niethinks,
ward, and I was left alone with my sinking boat ! Guilford ; but these count nought in the sunm of
What a moment of shame, disappointment and qualifications which lie who would wed a lord's
bitterness was that to me ! What an hour of daughter must bring to his aid."
happiness had been suddenly interrupted ! I  "I nayyet make myself worthy of her, moth-
now turned my whole attention to saving my er. In the books of history which she has loaned
boat-and my life. But my ears were rended by me, and which we have read together, are ac-
the cries of Lady Kate to her brother, not to let counts of lowly born youths having risen to
inc perish. But I could hear his scornful laugh thrones, and to wed kings' daughters. Nothing
only in reply.                             is impossible to love and ambition."
" By great exertions, my dear mother, I    "That was in the days of Romaunt, long
reached the cove as you saw ; but if I had been since ago, my boy. Such things do not happen
half a mile further out, I should certainly have now."
been lost. Now, mother, you know all. I have  "No one knows. What is enacting now !
unfolded to you the secret of my life. You are Who is Pres' cut of England, and who sits in
my only confidant. Perhaps I have done wrong the seat of its long line of descended kings ? Is
in encouraging this sweet friendship on the part it not Oliver Cromwell, who rose from the ranks
of Lady Kate. But should I dash the cup of of the people ? Even Lord Rudolph Vane must
bliss to the ground ! I was not wise enough to lift his cap to this man of humble origin."
know that-it was charged with sorrow to us both.  " True, ray son ! the people have the power."
I can now look on all with your eyes. I see  " Yes, and the nobles hold their castles and
that I have been in the wrong, and that I have their coronets at the will of the Lord Protector.
been inflicting a positive injury upon her whom Because I am a fisherman now, shall I of neces-
I would die to serve. I see it-I see it all! I sity always be one ? Thanks to the teachings of
cannot so much blame Lord Vane for wishing the Lady Catharine, I have knowledge and
to break off a friendship that was laden with so learning, and know how to hold such place as
much future evil."                         my good fortune may perchance elevate me to.
"I am glad to see you take this view of it, From this day I doff the fisher's jacket, and go
Guilford. It shows me that you are still as good and offer my services to the Admiral of the fleet,
and generous and just as I always have believed now in the Thames and preparing to sail against
you to be. No doubt that Lady Catharine loves the Dutch. There all grades are open to talent
youm; but do you think-now hear me put the a-nd aspiration, and with the star of Lady Kate's
question with calmness-do you think she would love shining ever above the horizon of my future,
listen to you with anything less than with sur- I shall yet win some place worthy of her."
prise and scorn, if you proposed seriously for her  "Alt, my son, you do not reflect that a suc-
hand ?"                 -                  cessful officer under Cromwell's power world be
Guilford shook his head, but made no reply. an unsuccessful wooer for the hand of a daugh-
"I fear that such a proposal from you would ter of so proud and royal a noble as Lord Vane.
open her eyes,which seem to have been strangely Dost thou forget how these nobles hate the Pro-
blinded, and lead her to see the true position in tector ?"
which you stood to each other. It would break  " True-true ! I should only defeat my aim,"

18

Ii_

CR

h
Q
.
f
,
a

I

3"
t
i
r
1
i#
$y
~
kyy
t+
d
+t
4'
,
t

I (

.y
t
t
k "i
i
y4
4'
_}
1.
['
, 1
G}
I
;


IL  t
1 ' 4R(.  . -
F _
_
I
5C
tV

20                         THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.
he answered, gloomily, as this sunshine of hope then suffered her to embrace him, to breathe a
faded away into the shadows of his darkening word or two of consolation into his heavy heart,
destiny. " And what is more true, I am in heart and then entered the house.
a king's subject. I have been taught by you and  It was already twilight, for the sun had gone
my father to honor the king, and to look upon down behind the blue Hampshire hills while
Cromwell as an usurper. Nothing but the hope- they sat in the green porch holding the conversa-
now dashed to the ground-of winning Lady tion we have above recorded.
Kate through honors gained under the Protector's In a few moments he came forth, and was
flag, would have suggested to me the idea of passing out of the gate.
offering myself to him. My heart is with the ex- " Leave no room, Guilford, for a second inter-
iled and hunted young King Charles; but to view," whispered his mother, impressively.
share his fallen fortunes I should be no nearer  " It shall be the last," he answered with deep
my ambitious hopes. Mother; advise me ! I emotion modulating the sounds of his voice.
know not what to do. I can never forget Lady  At the gate he met a fair young girl of eight-
Catharine. I must love her while life endures ; een, clad in a neat chintz gown, and coarse but
and while I live, it must be with the faint, far off becoming straw hat.
hope thatkind fate will one day smile upon my  "Good even, cousin Anne, he said, as he
love, and with the sunshine of joy dissipate all passed her.
the clouds that now hang around me."        " Good even, Guilford," she responded.
" My advice is, my boy, to remain where you  " Aunt, what makes Guilford so sad " she
are, and try and forget the Lady Catharine, as asked, looking after him.
much so as if she were dead and buried."  "1 He has a heavy sorrow at heart, child," an-
" Be it so I I will try," answered Guilford, in swered the mother, in a tone of sympathy.-
tones scarcely audible to his mother's ears. He " Heaven hold him strong under it."

i
t
_ J
2
~t.
.C
n
VSt j i
T !
Yi
1
F
 T

ChAPTER V.
COUSIN ANNE GREY--A SURPRISE.
THE maiden who betrayed this interest in   " So I fancied, if he be like other nobles of h it
the young man was Anne Grey, his cousin, and degree. I hope, child, he hath not notice d
the adopted child of her aunt, his mother. She thee."
was a beautiful girl of eighteen, with dark brows  " I like not his looks at all, aunt. He bath
and eyes, and handsome cheeks and lips, and a twice spoken to me in a manner that has made
neat figure, buoyant with the elasticity of health. my cheek burn. I would gladly find some ex-
She had daily employment at the castle by Lady cuse not to go up to the castle until he shall be
Vane, who gave occupation to several maidens gone back to London."
of humble degree in the art of embroidery, a  "'Tell not thy cousin Guilford of this,"
pursuit then much in vogue with the high-born  " Nay, he would care. little. He careth not
dames of England.                          for me," she answered, changing color.
Every morning for two years past, Anne had  "Ah, and is it this way blows the wind, my
gone to the castle to pass the day in the large child ?"
hall or working-room, where the lady of the  " Which way, aunt ?"
castle, seated in the midst of her half-score of  " I see thou lovest Guilford more than thou
maidens, either taught-them difficult figures in shouldst as a relative."
the pattern by her own example, or passed from  " I did not say so, aunt. Yet who can help
one to the other giving directions.        liking him'? Does not every one like him?
" Have you completed that battle piece of Nay, I have heard the fair Lady Catharine
Hastings's field yet ?" asked dame Graham of speak of him to me with passing commendation.
Anne, as the latter seated herself by the frugal But Guilford never thinks of me or any other
supper prepared for her and Guilford, but which maiden."
the latter had left untouched.               " And how like you the Lady Catharine ?"
"Not yet, aunt; we expect to complete it by  "She is fair and good as an angel. We ali
June. We have been already twenty-one months love her. She is nothing like Lord Rudolph,
.upon it. We had to wait three weeks for the her brother; and methinks he is something harsh
arrival of the young lord before we could finish towards her betimes as becometh not a brotherr"
his figure."                                "So I hear."
" What, does my young lord figure in the tap.  " Aunt, what aileth Guilford to-night ?"
estry ?"                       -" He is ill at ease. I warrant me he'll he bet-
" Yds, as one of the king's youthful knights. ter and wiser to-morrow. But here comes in
He has taken a good many sittings, and the some neighbor. See who it is."
portrait is to the life; but Lady Vane draws  Anne rose up, and advancing to the door,
and works in the features herself, while we only started back with a cry of surprise, as she be-
work the surcoat and armor."               held stride in two of Cromwell's soldiers, armed
"Whatthink you of my young lord ?"       with harquebus and broad-sword, and wearing
"Something bold and free, methinks."    the well known badge of the parliamentary ar-
2

jI"

'1

I;


22                          THE YOUNG
my. Instantly dame Graham, with that in-
stinctive sense of propriety and self-possession
which never forsook her, though she trembled in
her inmost soul at beholding the shadows of
these two men crossing her threshold, advanced
and said civilly :
" Enter, friends, and refresh yourselves. We
were just at supper. If you will take seats, you
shall cheerfully have whatever our poor larder
can furnish."
The soldiers sat down without ceremony, as if
they felt perfectly at home, and were accustomed
to the civility which they met with. One of them
was a tall, thin, cadaverous man, with dark, an-
gular brows, sallow cheeks, and straight black"
hair for a beard, while that upon his head was
cropped short like that of a modern convict. He
was armed in a formidable manner, and was
altogether a formidable looking person-a sort
of cross between a puritan saint and a robber of
the Rhine. His comrade was shorter by the
head, girded full 'twenty inches more by the
waist, had a bald bullet head, and no beard. His
eyes were small and twinkling, and the corners
of his mouth, which naturally were inclined to
turn laughingly upwards, were drawn down in a
sanctimonious curve, that each moment required
his attention to keep so. The names of these
two worthies were respectively "Strait-gate "
and " Broad-way."   The first five minutes
Strait-gate occupied in saying a long grace, to,
which Broad-way responded an unctuous amen.
They then fell to work upon the fish and ashes
cakes before them; and having taken off the
edge of their appetite, they began to use their
eyes, now in scanning the room, then the face
and dress of dame Graham, and lastly, but more
lingeringly, the pretty countenance of Anne
Grey, who sat aloof in the window, trying to
withdraw as much from observation as she could.
" So, dame, thou seemest to subsist by the
travail of fishing ? Verily it is a gospel trade,
and thou shouldst thrive. This comely maiden
is thy daughter I do peradventure ?"
This was spoken by Strait-gate.
" My niece, your worship."
" Come hither, maid, and let me see if thou
art well favored," said Broad-way. " They do
say -that much eating of fish doth improve the
Complexion."
But Anne, as soon as she saw that she was
particularly noticed, tripped out of the cottage.
" Verily and yea, the maiden hath fled. She
hath no need to fear the soldiers of the Lora and

FISHERMAN.

of Gideon. We war against kings, and not
against women."
"And how fares my Lord Cromwell, gentle-
men ?"
" Marry come up ! - How should - he but do
well, who is next to king David in power, and
Solomon in wisdom. Nevertheless, thou show-
est thy reverence for him, good dame, by asking.
Where is thy husband ?"
"Dead, this seven years, sirs."
1" Hast thou no man about ?" asked Broad-
way, cocking his half-shut eye at the oars and
sails that stood in the corner.
"I have a son; a young man of four-and-'
twenty."
"Where is he, dame ?"
" He has gone forth on some affairs of his
own."
" Very well; when he comes back we shall
doubtless see him,-for by your leave, we will
quarter with you a few days."
" Such poor comforts as my humble roof
affords are at your service," answered the dame,
thankful that there were but two of them, when
there might have been more.,
After the men had well eaten, and quaffed
strong waters from well filled flasks which they
carried at their belts, they walked forth, saying
they would ere long be back to stay for the
night. They had not been five minutes depart-
ed, when a man entered with the familiar air of
a village gossip. He was dressed in a patched
and, torn doublet,-hose down at the leg, a coarse
tunic, and slouched hat. Moreover, his fiery-
red nose showed that he was much given to ale-
house potations.
"Ah, dame, how be it all wi' ye ? How is the
pretty lass Anne? Whpte is master Guilford ?
Strange news come to, twn. Hope you haven't
heard it first. Stirring times these--stirring,
piping loot times ! Thank the Lord I was born
in these stirring times !'
With this the new comer rubbed his palms
together, and spoke with great volubility, like a
man over-earnest to be the first to turn the fasset
of a barrel of news.
"Why, what hath happened, Master Digby?"
asked the dame.
"Then you've not heard it? Qod; you'll
soon know it, for they'll be upon :you. Why, a
whole company o' parliamentary soldiersmarch-
ed down into the port just at sunset, and have
stacked their arms at the Whale ana Gudgeon.
There they are, drinking and .iiging -palms,

s

N

r
r
i
Pi'
a'   ,.

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.                                  23
and looking as warlike as Gog and Magog. 0, the room. His appearance struck them with
it's terrible to see their long broadswords and surprise and curiosity. He-wore a plain peas-
open-mouthed harquebusses, at the end of every ant's dress, soiled and travel worn, an old fur
one of which hangs a true man's life."    cap, that covered his eyes and nearly concealed
"We've had two of them here already," said his features, which were pale and well shaped.
the dame.                                  There was an air of superiority about him that
"What ! you don't say they have been here ?" led dame Graham to suspect that he was some
"There is where they have eaten but ten min- one of the nobles in disguise, who were lurking
utes agone. They say they are going to quarter about England in considerable numbers, with
here."                                     pnces set upon their heads. He seemed ready
"Dear, bless us ! what stirring times. But to sink with fatigue, as supporting himself on
did they tell you what they came here for? I the edge of the table, he said faintly, but in a"
warrant me I have that piece of news for you voice of singular courtesy:
yet."                                        "You are women-you are compassionate-
"We did not ask them, and I did not care to give me a few hours shelter. I am pursued, and
be too inquisitive." Wthrow myself on your mercy."
"Just like you. Well, I know. Listen, Miss  " Come-follow me," quietly said the dame,
Anne. The king's son, Prince Charles has speaking with decision and promptness. " Anne,
made'a break from some place where they had place that food in his hands."
him penned in, away off in the Scot's country  A plate of provisions from  the table was
a-north; and the Protector's got certain news handed to him by the maiden, and he followed
de's trying to fly across the seas. So, you un- dame Graham out of the room like one accus-
derstand, he has sent'vessels to every port where tomed to ask and find shelter in -this manner.-
he could, to keep watch, and to examine every There was a ladder in the adjoining upart-
boat that puts off; and here, on the south of ment which led to a loft.
England, he has sent troops to guard the coast,  "Ascend this and you will L-nd a bed and
ind especially every place where theretare fish- security. Make no noise. As soon as my son
ing boats. So at this moment there is not a comes, we will seek a more secure place of shel-
chnce for the prince to get out of England ter. There are two of the parliamentary 'soldiers
without being seen and taken. All along the quartered in the house, but they shall not sus-
coakeestrmwl's solder sIrequartered, ad  pect your presence. Who you are I ask not; I
to keep strict watch. All this I learned ftom only wish that it were the prince, save that I
one of the troop, who used to be an old crony of should be grieved to see my prince so hardly
"Poe when the old king was alive."         driven by his foes."
a'Poor Prince Charies I" sighed the fisher- He pressed her hand gratefully, and ascended
man's widow; "he is, I fear, destined to fall into the ladder, which, at her direction, he drew up
the hands of his enemies."                I after him. He then closed the opening, so that
"We must speak low when we mention his no sign of the trap' was apparent from below.-
name, dame," answered Digby. "But good She then returned to Anne, whom she impressed
night; I must go, for I've got to tell the news to with the importance of keeping the secret of the
a good many. Stirring times--stirring times ! presence of the fugitive from every ear.
Good night, fair Miss Anne." 'l"Have you any idea who it is, aunt ?"
With these words, the village news-bearer  "I have my guess. It is either the prince
" I do really he cothe.         -       himself, or one of his friends."
fdor heial hoe  eywil hae their labor   "0, that it were the prince, and we could got
for their pains," said Anne. "Poor Prince him safe across the channel!" exclaimed the
tharies has been hunted till he has no place left beautiful girl with warmth.
to hide his head!'                           " This is sooner said than executed. I sin-
"It is to be hoped he may escape."      cerely pray that it maynot be the Prince Charles,
Aunt, there is some one looking in upon us for I do not see how we could protect him.-
at the back window!" suddenly exclaimed These soldiers will doubtless pryinto every nook
Te dand corner of the house. But Guilford will soon
The dame turned her head, and as she did so be in, when I will consult with him."
Swindow     asraised, and a n  stepped into

t


A CONCEAL
THE good dame then went to work to pre-
pare some drink of ale and French brandy, which
latter article the fishermen on the south coast,
from their nearness to France, had always cheap-
ly and in ample quantities in their households.
Having made the potation hot, and seasoned it
well with spices, she sent Anne with it to give
it to their concealed guest, while she herself re-
mnained to watch the entrance to the cottage
that no one might come in unobserved. Anne,
on entering the back apartment of the hut, care-
fully closed and bolted the door between, and
then drawing a rough table beneath the trap,
she got upon it and knocked lightly with the end
of a broom upon the ceiling above her head.
" Sir cavalier ?" she said, softly.
" What, maiden ?" asked the voice of the con-
cealed fugitive, speaking through a crevice in
the floor.
" Open, and take this warm negus which my
aunt hath prepared for thee. We know you
must suffer from thirst and fatigue, for we have
heard of the great y ardships the friends of Prince
Charles have gone through to keep frpm being
captured."
The trap was carefully lifted, and the arm of
the wanderer was thrust down for the flagon
which the maiden reached up to him. As he
took it he tapped her hand with his fingers, in
token of his gratitude, and said in a voice ha-
bitually subdued to the lowest undertone:
" Thanks and blessings upon thee and thy
good aunt, maiden. Heaven surely directed me

EaD GU E s .
hither. Are.-

you confident that I can be con-

I'

1'

cealed here ?"
" At least till my cousin Guilford can think of
some other place ; and he will soon be in."
"And who is thy cousin Guilford ?"'
" The son of my aunt ; and though but a fish-
erman's son, and himself a fisherman, he is a
true friend to the prince, and lrays for his safe-
ty, as well as do I and my aunt."
" Thanks, thanks, maiden. This beverage
will revive me and make me forget my day's
fatigues."
" Quick, sir cavalier, shut the trap down. I
hear voices."
The stranger immediately closed the boards
and leaping t9 the floor from the table, the
maiden removed it against the wall, and unbolt-
ing the door returned to the front room. Voices
of men in loud talk were still heard outside.
" Didst give it to him ?" asked her aunt, in an
under tone..
" Yes, aunt, and he was so grateful, and so
civil spoken; and his hand, as he reached it
down, was as fair as a born lady's."
" Without doubt; these court cavaliers do
nought of work, being rich, but aid the king
with their heads in council. How fortunate
he did not come in when the soldiers werehere."
" Perhaps he was watching outside the win-
dow  till they went away."'' c
" But it was bold in him to come, in when
they had so lately left."
"Poor gentleman, aunt I Perhaps he had no

-1  fi
_      z.
L
f
1
i
5

other chance for safety. I have heard a story a small cupboard an earthern mug, which held
of a hunted deer after being pursued from every about a quart, she poured from it into two cups
covert, at length fly for shelter beneath the horse all that she had reserved for Guilford of what
of the hunter. But here comes the men ?"   she had made for the concealed guest.
" Now, Anne, let not our looks or manner or  The two soldiers had no sooner inhaled and
words betray to these soldiers that we have a tasted the potation, than they manifested their
secret to keep."                           approbation of her skill in concocting agreeable
While the good woman was giving this piece potations.
of caution to her niece, the two parliamentary " Verily," said Strait-gate, "this is richer than
troopers came. in, making noise enough with the wines of Judea and the dew of the little hills
their heavy boots and jingling swords for half a of Hermon."
score of modern dragoons.                    " Yea, verily, it is the dew of Lebanon," an-
" Well, mistress, we have been taking a survey swered Broad-way, with unction.
of thy premises around, walking about thereof  " The good dame must fill up the quart meas.
as the Israelites circumvented t ie walls of ure once more; for verily with such strength as
Jericho; but verily, not seven times, for we had this giveth to the arm of a servant of the Lord,
no desire that thy walls should fall down, con- we shall overthrow our enemies and discomfit
sidering that we look for them to give us shelter them."
to-night. Here, maiden, take the sword of the  " Verily, brother Strait-gate, verily, till not a
Lord and of Gideon !"  -                   dry bone standeth in the valley of Ajalon. Come
With this, Broad-gate, who had seated his un- hither, maiden, for thou art fair and comely to
wieldy form upon a bench by the table, un- look upon; come hither, and sit upon my knee,
buckled his huge sword and handed it to Anne, that I may discourse to thee touching the wiles
who took it, though it required no little strength of the devil and the temptations of this world of
to lift it with its iron scabbard, and hung it upon vanities."
a wooden peg near the window.                " Nay, brother, the maiden will do better to
" And take thou this fiery sword, lass, and put sit where she is ; for thou shouldst not put thy-
it safely on yonder beckets," said Strait-gate, self in the way of evil, seeking to save others
with a solemn, nasal drawl. "Phuf! verily, from perdition."
brother Broad-way, I smell the savor of strong "Anne," said the good dame, "come hither
waters, spiced and fragrant as the incense of and take this pail and go to the spring and fill
Aaron, that flowed down his garment skirts it with water, that I may make more negus for
unto!"                                    these sons of Jacob."
"Yea, the flavor thereof ascendeth to my nos- Anne very willingly complied, tind was not a
e I        trils like the odors of the lily of the valley of little gratified when her aunt whispered to her
many colors. Dame, whence ariseth this de- as she gave her the bucket, " Remain without
-           lectable odor ?" asked Broad-way, snuffing the until thy cousin returns. These men will be
air of the room about him like a bull of Ba- rude to thee in their cups. There is water
shan; while Strait-gate, erect and thin visaged, enough in the house without that thou art sent
in his chair, rolled his eyes on all sides to dis- for."
cover whence came the fragrance which had so " But they will be rude to thee."
captivated their virtue..                   "No, I fear them not, child. Keep thou away
" It is but the fumes of a negus which I have from them all thou canst."
been making. My son will be in soon, and as  " Marry, come up, maiden," said Broad-way,
the night is something chilly, and as he has as she passed him; "stay and let me give thee a
gone out without his supper, I would give him  holy kiss !"
some refreshment when he comes in." "Yea, a kiss of peace, verily, maiden l"
"Verily thou art a mother in Israel," an- chimed in Strait-gate, with a hypocritical twang
swered Broadway. " Suppose thou regardest through his nose. " Dost thou remember that
us as thy sons in Jacob and thy posterity in Isaac kissed Rebecca ? Come hither, and let us
Abraham, and give us of the negus even, verily, kiss thee and talk to thee gravely of the vanity
as Jacob gave to Esau of the pottage when he of youth and the perils of comeliness."
was a hungry."                       -      But Anne, blushing and terrified, bounded
Dame Graham rose at once, and taking from past the pious covenanters and gained the out-

J4
I _ ,

CHAPTER VI.

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

26


s_
y
Py            -
ro
t
6
g
E
rt         .

c
t
t
(.
t
1
1
i
1
1
i
1

ide of the door. But she fled from the arms of not compel me to sigh for you, and love you
he men of war to fall into the arms of a fine- and live only with your thought, while you treat
looking youth of her own station, who was in me so disdainfully."
the act of knocking for admission as she opened  "I love you, Robin; but I do not love you yet
the door.                                  well enough to be your wife. If I ever marry
" Why, Robin !" she exclaimed, as she with-- any one but-it shall be you."
rirew her form fromhis arms, which had enclosed  "But who? whose name fills the space you
her almost of necessity, so completely she came only breathed ?"
into them.                                   "Do you not guess ?" asked the ingenuous
" And you Anne? whither with such haste? girl.
0, I see, you have the bucket. Let me fetch the  " I can think of no one but Guilford."
water for thee."                            "You are right. It is Guilford who alone
, " Nay, speak low, and come right away from keeps me froni loving you as you ought to be
the door. If you must talk, talk at the spring. loved. I have nothing against you; Iam grate-
There are two of those dreadful troopers in the ful for selecting me out of all the maidens of the
house !"                                   hamlet; but I love Guilford."
" What, Cromwell's brigands ?" repeated the  "Only as a cousin ?"
young fellow, in tones that rung like a Damas-  "I wish it were only as a cousin. I fear I
ens blade.                                 love him with all my heart."
" Hush!" she cried, pressing her small hand  " Happy Guilford. He is my best friend. He
against his mouth to stop his words. " If you destroys my happiness. Does he love thee ?
are overheard you are lost. Come with me But why do I ask the question ? Who can help
quick, and I will tell you all about what has loving thee, Anne, that knows thee ?"
happened."                                   " Frankly, then, I fear he loves me only at a
He took the pail from her, and followed.her cousin, and has no suspicion of my attachment
light step across a stile and into a remote corner for him. This makes me wretched. I fear his
of a paddock, where, beneath a clump of alders, heart is pre-engaged."
bubbled a sparkling spring with an abundance  " Would that it were !"
of water, which overrunning, sought its way in a  " It would then break the dream  of my life,
brooklet to the sea five hundred yards off.  . and I should perhaps awake, Robin, to the reali-
"You seem   disturbed, Anne. Have these ties of thy love. You see I am frank and open-
troopers been insolent?" demanded the young hearted with you. Your long attachment for
man, who was plainly of a fiery temper, and had me demands frankness and the absence of all
a profound regard for the maiden.          mystery."
" When did you ever hear of these soldiers  "You are goodness itself. If, then, Guilford
being beneath a roof, that they were not inso- should be discovered to have given his heart to
lent? Beshrew me ! they would have kissed me another, may I not then venture to hope, dearest
if I would have suffered it of their ugly great Anne ?"
hairy mouths !"                              "Yes; for there is no one, next to him,'I
" I will kill them both !"               think so highly of as you."
"Nay, Robin, that would be to the death of This undisguised expression of her feelings
three men, for assuredly thou wouldst be the filled the young man with joy. He pressed her-
third. They didn't kiss me, however, for I ran hand to his lips with devotion and ardor, and
away."                                     she could see that his features were animate
"The hounds ! To presume to think of what with hope and joy.
I scarcely dare dream  of-pressing thy sweet  As they sat by the spring they heard the voices
lips."                                     of the two tipsy troopers singing through their-
" Nay, Robin, don't talk of love now. You noses a long-winded psalm, the sounds of which
may stay here and keep me company till Guil- reaching the ears of other soldiers quartered
ford comes home, if you will behave yourself." about in other huts, inspired them also with de-
"Ah. Anne, you'are ever so cruel to me. Why votional psalmody, and soon the whole village
do I woo and sue, and woo in vain?" said the was roaring with a confused noise of singing,
young man, seating himself by her side on the which came louder from the village inn than
stone bench that half encircled the spring. "Do from any other quarter.

i

A FUGITIVE 'S ESCAPE.

WHEN Guilford left the threshold of the cot- affections.
tage to take his way towards Castle Vane, in look upon
order to obtain a final interview with the beauti- ted. We:
ful and high-born maiden who had given him first to hre
the preference of her pure affections, he walked better fori
for some minutes at the quick, impetuous step honor. S
which his agitated feelings prompted. But af- me. But,
ter losing sight of the gate of the hut, and he the glitter
had come upon the white sand beach on which a shining
the moonbeams shone like silver, and upon the interview
hard, marble-like floor of which the sparkling brother?Y
waves unrolled themselves like countless blue would shri
scrolls edged with pearl, the sweet influences of related to
the scene carried quiet and congparative serenity to slay me
to his soul. Gradually his footsteps slackened, bring wea
and at length he came to a full stop and looked only in se
off and upward.                              He now
" Why should I let a storm rage in my bosom hunded ya
when all nature is so peaceful? The blue skies part of the
are soft and fair, and the stars sparkle in them advancing
like celestial eyes, looking peace and joy on water, sto
earth, while the heavens of my soul are clouded, the other
and not a star of hope is glimmering in their precipice
wide horizon. Why," he mused, " why should white as b
I let mere feelings torture me so that I am more the comm
like one bereft of reason at the idea of losing the coast
Lady Catharine, than a sane man? Let me the projec
borrow peace and calmness from the ocean, the commune
sky, the stars, the whole repose of nature. I will beach pat
be calm!t I will reflect 'upon all this which has memorial
come upon me with firmness and honesty of con- other on t
viction. My mother is right. 'I am doing the that way
Lady Catharine wrong by thus holding her the rock.

My mother is right. She can never
me as her husband. She is infatua-
have both been blinded. I will be the
ak the spell. She will respect me the
it. I will act as becomes a man of
he shall never have reason to despise
" he added, as he paced slowly along
ing beach, and mechanically picked up
shell for her, "how shall I obtain an
with her without encountering her
not that I fear him, but my hand
ink from a contact with one so nearly
her. No doubt he would not hesitate
on the first sight, and therefore did I
pons with me; but I shall use them
If-defence."
r proceeded along the beach for two
yards further, when he came to a jutting
e cliff on which the castle stood, which,
g across the beach some yards into the
pped further progress on foot; but on
side of this projecting wall of the
the beach was continued, broad and
efore, for more than a league, and was
on way taken by the inhabitants along
from one hamlet to the other. But, as
ting cliff would have broken off all
cation between the two parts of this
hway, two small boats had been im-
ly kept there, one on one side and the
the opposite side, for those who passed
to row themselves round the spur of

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

.10

i26

CHAPTER VII.

}
t-
t

! -"


28

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

As the path by which Guilford usually visited be used instantly, and then hastened to meet the
the garden of the castle lay around the cliff, he fugitive, who ran heavily, as if he had nearly
now approached the little skiff, which had paint- lost his wind.
ed on its stern "Castle Vane," it being the prop-  "Courage, my friend !" shouted Guilford. "I
erty of Lord Vane, he suddenly heard a loud have a shot for the trooper ! Run a little fur-
shouting of numerous voices in the direction of ther, and there is a boat to escape in."
the hamlet in his rear. and one or two discharges  The sound of the encouraging voice of the
of harquebusses. The voices continued to ad- young fisherman seemed to give new spirits to
vance, and looking back with surprise, and the pursued stranger, who waved his hand and
wondering at the cause, he saw far distant a came forward at a more vigorous pace. The
single man running along the beach at the fleet- horseman also increased his speed, and when the
est speed. His dark form was distinctly ra fugitive had got within twenty fathoms of the
lieved against the white moon-lit sand. The boat, the trooper was alongside of him, with his
next moment, not a hundred and fifty yards be- broad claymore sweeping around above his head,
hind him, came two others, who seemed in hot ready to descend upon the neck of the royalist.
pursuit. Guilford had already placed his foot Guilford was not near enough to aid in warding
in the boat, and held the oar in his hand; but off the blow, which the fugitive could not do,
he remained motionless, watching the advance having, as Guilford perceived, no sword, and
of the fugitive, who each moment was gained but one hand ; but the young fisherman brought
upon by his pursuers. He now began to feel an his huge pistol to bear upon the broad chest of
interest in him, as every generous mind will the trooper, and fired it. The man received the
instantly take part with the weakest; and this ball in his heart, and tumbled from his horse
interest was not lessened when the pursuers upon the beach, with the sword which he held
increased to seven men, who shouted:       aloft ready to aim the blow, lying broken under
" The sword of the Lord and of Gideon ! him in the sand.
Death to the son of Anak! Slay the son of    " Gallantly done, young man !" cried the fugi-
Belial !"                                  tive. " You have saved my life." And he
" They are covenanters in chase of a loyalist," pressed Guilford's hand to his bosom.
said Guilford, biting his lip. " If he reaches  " We have not a moment to lose, my lord,"
here in good time, I will save him at all risks." said Guilford. " Quickly, into the boat !"
At this moment he saw the fugitive stop, as his  "I need no urging, my brave fellow," an-
nearest pursuer was not twenty yards off, turn swered- the stranger, stepping into the boat,
round, and deliberately fire at him. The man which Guilford, in a few seconds, rowed out
fell, and the fugitive once more bounded on his from the land and around the rock, behind
way. This bold and cool act elevated him not which he disappeared as two more horsemen
a little in the estimation of so brave a spirit as came up to the fallen body of their companion.
that of Guilford, and he watched the approach One of them, with reckless hardihood, spurred
of the hunted loyalist as he supposed him to be, his horse into the sea, and compelled him to
with the deepest solicitude. A second pursuer swim out, as if his rider were resolved to let no
coming too near, shared the fate of the first; obstacles prevent him from capturing the fugi-
but a horse trooper coming at spur-speed on the tive. But the weight of the man, who was gi-
beach, gained so rapidly on him, that Guilford gantic in size, and the terror of the animal, after
felt that unless the man had another shot left, a short distance brought on a terrible struggle
he would be taken. That he had not, Guilford between life and death, and in vain attempting
saw very clearly by the superhuman efforts now to extricate himself from the saddle and stir-
made by the man to escape the horseman.    raps, the man sunk with his horse and disap-
" I have a pistol," cried Guilford, with admira- peared forever.
tion. " These troopers are our natural foes.- At this tragical result the other troopers
Shall I stand here and see a brave msn taken, paused on the shore, and as the cliff presented
and perhaps slain before my face? It may be an insurmountable barrier to their further pro-
the prince himself for aught I know!1 I will gress, the escape of the fugitive was secured.
give him all the aid I can, whosoever he be." "They cannot come after us here," said Guil-
He then pushed the skiff a little out from the ford, as he drove the boat against the beach be-
beach, and placed the oars so that they could yond the rock.

L l  1
I
A
11
M
r {fir
'+f SiFy 1'f.
r.,7t 1'
J   t 19 5
i
L w
ryY
.?F

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.                                  29
"And to what brave young man am I in- to know that I am expecting a vessel in this
debted for my safety ?" asked the stranger, who night from the channel to take inc off. Pull
pressed the hand of the young fisherman with out a bit from the shore, if thy own business be
strong emotion.                            not too pressing, and let me look about. I shall
" I am but a fisherman, my lord, who live in feel more secure with an acre or two of broad
the hamlet from which you came, and by good sea water lying between me and the main. Any
fortune having an errand this way, was enabled moment these troopers may circumvent us by the
to afford you the assistance I have done."  castle road and pounce upon us."
" And good aid it was, and gallantly well lent  That is true. I will row out with you a mile
to me; for you have as steady a hand and as or two, and if you see nothing of the craft you
true an eye with a pistolet as any king's cava- look for, captain, I will land you on such safe
lier of the guards. What is thy name ? for I part of the coast as you may name, if it be not
would befriend thee, if some day I have it in my so far off that I cannot return hither by mid-
power."                                    night."
"Guilford Graham, sir cavalier," answered  " An affair of love thou hast on thylhands, I'll
Guilford, who could see by the dress and bear- be sworn for you," answered the captain, laugh-
ing of the stranger that he was a man of very ing; " but I will not keep thee long. If I see
different stamp from the Roundheads. As the nothing of the boat I look for in an hour, I will
moonlight shone full upon him, he could see put back with you, and trust to you to find me a
that he was a well made man, of thirty-seven or hiding place for another day."
eight years, with long black locks floating to his  Guilford was so captivated by a certain frank,
neck, his air proud, and his bearing bold and chivalrous manner of the stranger, and he seemed
resolute. But his curiosity' was awakened to to place such unsuspecting confidence in him,
know how he had lost his right hand. This that he resolved, even if it should defer his inter-
curiosity was perhaps apparent in his looks, for view with Lady Catharine to another night, to
the stranger said:                         give this night to securing the safety of his new
" I suppose you would like to know who I friend. That h was some flying cavalier, he
am ? You ought to know ; but in these days it was well convinced in his own mind ; and he.ran
is not safe always for men to carry their appella- over in his memory the names of several of the
tions posted on their breast-plates. You say we most distinguished of whom lie had heard as
are safe here. It may be that you are, but as having been banished, or against whom sentence
for me, I am not safe on any foot of England's had been declared, with the probability that this
soil on the Sussex coast. Look you ! Hast thou stranger might be one of them.
seen any sail in the offing towards the sun-  "I will go out with you, sir," lie answered
down ?"                                    cheerfully; and if you do not see your vessel,
"Methinks, my lord-"                     and your head is in danger on land, I think that
" Nay, how dost thou know me ?"          I can manage to run you across to the French
"I do not, my lord. I did give thee but. the coast in a fishing smack to-morrow night."
chance title of respect."                    " Parbleu, mon ami !", exclaimed the captain,
" Drop it, lest it be not over safe. Call me with a laugh. "The land of monsieur will burn
captain, and thou wilt have a handle to my name. my feet as badly as the land of John Bull. No,
What didst thou see ?"                     no, I am safe only on the deck of nty own ship."
"Far in the south and west I thought I saw  " Then you have a ship, sir ?"
the upper sails of a brigantine, standing coast- " Ay, have I, and a better keel cuts not the
wise; but I was too much taken up with my waters of the channel. It is she that I am wait-
own affairs just then to give it or its course es- ing for, Now we are clear from the shore again,
pecial heed."                              I can breathe more freely. Pull out steadily a
' You shall know enough of me, young man, mile or so, and then we will look about us,"


I

CHAPTER VIII.
A STAt1,tNct ADVENTURE.
GUILFORD rowed out from the beach straight :"So do I, sir. There are three lights burning
into the channel. As they got far enough from one above another. They are small, but I see
the shore to look round on the other side of the them distinctly."
rock, they saw the troopers retiring, bearing off " And so do I," answered the captain, spring-
the dead bodies of their comrades who had fallen ing to his feet, and speaking with animated joy.
in the pursuit.                           " That is my boat. It was to row in from the
"Did you ever kill a man before ?" asked the ship, which was to remain in mid-channel, and
captain of Guilford, who had drawn his atten- every ten minutes, as she pulled towards the lit-
tion to the scene on shore.              tle port of Blithelmstone, was to display three
" No, sir."                            lanterns upon an oar. By being out here half a
"You could hardly do so in a better cause.-- league from land I shall save them the trouble
If you had not shot that fellow, he would have of going farther in, and you the time, which I
cloven me to the earth. I was never harder be- know you are generously giving me, from the
set in my life, and yet I have not always passed trysting tree. I know it is unfair to rob a lover
my days in a lady's boudoir."             of one moment of sifeh heavenly moonlight as

" One would not think, so, sir, to see you. I
dare say you lost your hand in some battle ?"
The brow of the stranger, naturally black, be-
came suddenly dark as night. He was silent
for ti few moments, and then answered in tones
that thrilled the very heart's blood of the young
fisherman:
"No, sir-on the scaffold !"
"On the scaffold !" repeated Guilford, with a
start and a look that betrayed his surprise; and
in his excitement he ceased rowing and regarded
the stranger with a new and strange interest.
"Do not cease to row, my young friend. I
would gain a good sea-birth. Your eyes are
sharp. Look, and tell me what you see in the
south. I fancied I caught a flash of fire in that
quarter, just west of the moon's path."

t'.

this."
"Nay, sir cavalier," answered Guilford, who
each moment felt more drawn out to like the
man whose life he had saved, and to confide in
him, " it needs but little light for a lover to take
his last adieu of his lady love."
" What-is it so? It must be, from thy tones
-and the tremor of thy lip. What, a quarrel ?"
"No, my lord!1 Do not ask me more."
"Nay, but thy happiness shall be in my keep-
ing. Thou shalt tell me thy tale on board my
ship. It may be I can serve thee where thou
little thinkest."
" Thanks, captain; but no one can aid me. It
is settled without charge."
"I will judge of that when I have made thee
tell me thy love story. See ! there shine the

THE YO0NG FIS IERMAN.

31

lights again nearer. The rogues are pulling in  " To the south-west about four miles."
towards the land, little guessing their master is "Are all well on board ?"
so near them. If they had been a-land two    "All, my lord."
hours earlier, I should not have been exposed to "And any news ? You have been late."
be hunted like a fox as I was. Pull a little  "We would have been in ea-lier, but a yacht
across the; course of the boat, so that we can was hovering about us till night, and kept s
meet her."                                 from  advancing; and at length it became so
Guilford could now plainly see, not a quarter close a watcher, that the count fired a gun, and
of a mile off, a black, four-oared barge, pulling brought her to and captured her. He feared
steadily in towards the land. No lights were they would run in and report the ship."
now visible on board, but every few minutes  " He did right. Whose yacht was it ?"
three round, swinging lanterns had been dis-  The answer was spoken in so low a tone that
played for a moment and then removed. As the Guilford did not hear it; for the young officer
boats drew near each other the barge was stopped seemed to speak with constraint before him.
suddenly, and there was distinctly heard the  " Ah, do not fear my friend here, Edward. I
clicking of steel against flint.           owe my life to his courage. You must know I
" My merry men are regular devils to be on was seated in the village inn, quietly waiting for
the alert," said the captain. " They would ham- the night, after having by a miracle got away
mer their flints if they saw a pair of gulls sailing from London, when all at once the tap-room
near on a rotten spar. They will challenge us, was filled by as truculent a set of Cromwell'S
and if we are not quick to give a satisfactory worthies as you ever chanced to meet with.--
response, they will give us, without shrive or Well, I had to put a bold face on the matter,
shrift, a couple of pounds of harquebus balls and pretended to take no notice of them. I soon
in our ribs."                              found they were despatched to guard the coast,
Scarcely had the stranger spoken, than there to prevent Prince Charles from getting out of
came sternly across the water the sonorous hail: England; for Oliver has sent guards from Land's
"What boat is there?" .                  End to Newcastle to keep him within the island;
"The prince !" responded the cavalier, in a but heaven grant. him a safe escape from his
loud voice.                                toils and a triumph over all his enemies."
"At this, the crew of the other boat gave a  " Amen 1" said Guilford, in so hearty a tone,
hearty British huzza, and the oars falling into that the youthful seaman who had been called
the water, the barge came bounding across the Edward grasped him by the hand, and said en-
intervening space of water like an arrow. The thusiastically:
next moment the two boats were side by Side  "Whoever you are, you are my friend, since
and stationary. Guilford had been struck with you pity the prince."
amazementwhen he heard the stranger's answer,  Guilford returned, the pressure with delight,
and believing that it was indeed the prince in and the captain resumed:
person, though he had believed him to be a more  " My wits were now set to work to find some
youthful looking man, he sprang forward to kiss way of getting out of the inn without attracting
his hand and declare his devotion to him even i the particular notice of these suspicious Round-
in his exile.                              heads. But the first movement I made to rise
"Nay, my brave friend," said the stranger, to settle my bill and leave, was observed by two
raising him up, -' I am notthe prince; but I wish of them, who came near and said impertinently,
I were, for thy sake and his own ; for I fear me and in theit sanctimonious whine :
he has not the good fortune to be so well out of  "'Brother, thou needest not depart. Thou
England as I am. The answer I gave is but shalt abide and sup with us, and we will drink
the name of my ship and the sign of my presence to the health of the Joshua of the Lord.'
to my men. I am glad to meet you again, my   " By this I knew they meant Oliver their mse-
trusty hearts," he now said, turning to the crew; ter, and I swore internally that I would have my
and at the same time he exchanged friendly tongue ct out before I would lift a cup to my
salutations with a young officer who commanded lips in his honor. So I resolved, before I drew
the barge, and who seemed exceedingly happy the notice of more of them upon me, that I would
to see him.                                bolt at once and trust to my good fortune; for
" And where is the ship, Edward ?" he asked. if they were by chance to discover who I was, I


32

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

1.
to

knew my fate was sealed.- So, without more to sail with him and win a name -upon-the seas.
ado, I seized a settle, and swinging it broadly, It was mainly under the impulse of this scarcely
knocked my two civil friends to the floor, and formed idea that he yielded to the invitation to
clearing my way, I gained the outside of the go on board.
hostel, and then ran for it. It was some seconds  " I will. at least, see for myself," he said with-
before they fully understood the matter who were in himself, musingly, " and if I find-that here is
outside ; but no sooner did the idea take them a career opened before me for honor and fame,
that I was not running for a wager, but for my I will embrace it, if this brave captain will take
head, than they were not backward in making me into his service."
sail after me. Instinctively I made for the sea-  In half an hour after he had consented to be
side, where I hoped to see my boat, for it was taken on board the ship, she was seen looming
the hour I looked for her appearance to take me up about a mile distant, darkly and indistinct,
off to my ship. But no boat was to be seen, and like a huge floating castle with gray towers. A
I followed the beach at life-speed, followed by single blue light was placed over the quarter as
my pursuers, who gave race after me like apack a guide to the boat, in order that it might not
of hounds. I shot two of them as they came mistake another vessel for it.
after me; but a third, who was mounted, would  ".She is a very large vessel, sir," remarked
have cut me down but for this brave fellow, who Guilford, as she grew larger and larger on the
knocked him out of his saddle with a pistolet vision of his eye as they approached the place
shot, and then got me off in his boat, which was where she majestically rose and fell upon the
close at hand. So you see I have had a narrow long swells of the quiet sea.
escape, and if you and my njerry men love me,  " Yes; we have not less than three hundred
Edward, you will think much of this bold youth men on board, and some thirty cannons at her
Guilford Graham."                          sides, besides two swivels in each top."
" We are friends from this hour," answered "It must be a very fine thing to command so
the elegant young sailor, whom Guilford thought brave a ship as that, sir captain ?"
handsome enough to be a woman, and laying    " That is as a person's ambition may measure.
his hand affectionately upon his shoulder.  Some particular friends of mine, young man,
" We will now pull to the ship," said the cap- would hardly be content with less than a chan-
tain ; "but, my brave fisherman, wilt thou not go nel fleet."
on board with me? I wish to show thee my     "I am sure I should consider my fortune made
brave craft and my true men all, every soul of for life, sir, to command a single ship half th~e
whom will be thy friend for what thouhast done sizeof this. How grandly she towers upward,
to-night. Come, do not hesitate. I will have like Castle Vane seen from the beach."
thee and-thy boat put adrift by sunrise, if thou  "Castle Vane? that is Lord Charles Vane's
likest, near enough to the coast for thee to row residence, and was near where we embarked i"
in in half an hour."                        "The very castle, sir, that was on the cliff."
"I will go on board, if coming nearer the  "So I supposed. Is Lord Vane at home,
shore of England at dawn will not put thee in canst say ?"
peril on my account."                        " The young lord is, sir captain."
"Not a bit, my good friend. I care not, when  " Ay, is he? A young man that I do not
I am  on board, -how near I run in and snap much fancy."
my fingers at Cromwell's clumsy war ships.--  " Nor I, my lord," answered Guilford, speak--
Give way, my men ; we will take the boat, to ing without reflection from the feeling of the
which I in part owe my safety, in tow."    moment.
Almost in opposition to his own real wishes,  " Ha I has he crossed. thy path then, young
Guilford found himself consenting to visit the man ?" -
ship. The captain had fascinated him,. and he  "I like him not well, my lord."
felt that he should be content to unite his for- " Common report hath va tlat he hath a fair
tunes with his, after he should have taken fare- sister. Hast thou, living so near, by chance
well of Lady Catharine. Indeed, from the first, seen her ? If so, cast thou bear witness to her
when the stranger hinted incidentally that he comeliness ?"
had a ship, a wish was born in Guilford's heart  x" She is very fair, my lord captain."

THE YOUNG

" Thou hast seen her, then ?"
"Yes, my lord,'' answered Guilford, blushing,
and both pleased and.annoyed at having Lady
Catharine the subject of conversation. To him
she was something consecrated to his most se-
cret thoughts, and the idea of whom he could
share with no one.,
" She will be one of the proudest peeresses in
the realm if the young king comes to the throne.
Many a knight and noble, and I wot princes too,
will be suing for her hand. But here we are,
discovered and hailed."

JunorG from the manner of the captain's
reception on board of his ship, Guilford enter-
tained the highest notions of his authority and
popularity. The scene which the long, warlike
decks presented to his eyes, lighted up by rows
of battle lanterns, was novel and stirring to the
blood. Three hundred men were arranged in
orderly ranks to welcome their returned chief,
and the red glare of the lanterns falling upon
their features, lent to their countenances and pic-
turesque costumes a romantic character that did
not fail to impress the lively imagination of
young Guilford. There were at least a dozen
officers also assembled on the 'quarter' deck,
some of them men with gray beards, others
young and ardent. They were each and all
handsomely attired in gold laced coats and rich
chapeaux with plumes. The whole appearance
of the ship, with its tiers of cannon, its crowds of
fighting men, armed with long pistolets and cut-
lasses, and its chivalrous looking group of off-
cers, who all seemed gentlemen born, struck
Guilford in the most favorable manner.
While he was casting his eyes about him, and
filling them with the new scenes thus suddenly
opened before him, the captain, who was plainly
dressed, and in travel worn costume, placed his
hand on his shoulder and said to his offers:

FISHERMAN.                            83
Guilford's heart was swelling. Hope was
dying in him at these last words of the captain.
He felt that he was mad longer to think of her.
He now saw more vividly than ever his rashness
and folly. He, the poor fisher, to cope with
knights, nobles and princes!I He felt like drop-
ping into the deep, deep sea, and putting an end
forever, thought he, to his wild hopes, his am-
bitious madness, his despair, and all the future
of misery which he now so plainly saw before
him on earth.

"Messieurs, to this young fisherman I owe my
life. I was hotly pursued to the coast by a
score of Cromwell's hounds, and this young man
shot down the leading trooper and got me safely
off in his boat. This is enough for me to say to
place him on the proper footing with you all."
At this, several of the officers advanced and
shook Guilford by the hand, and especially the
young men were enthusiastic is their congratula-
tions. Guilford's feelings may be guessed at,
but hardly described. His heart bounded with
joy, for he felt that through this fair reception
might be opened a way for his advancement.
The captain now descended, or rather walked
aft into his state-cabin, which was an elaborately
carved house, built over the stern of the after
twenty feet of the deck ; for like the ships of that
period, the stern rose very loftily, so that a per-
son standing upon the top of the poop, had his
head very nearly on a level with the mizzen top.
At the invitation of the captain, Guilford fol-
lowed him into the first apartment-for there
was a room within a room. Before the door of:
the farthest state-room stood a sentry.
"What, how is this ?" he asked of his first
lieutenant, seeing the soldier.
" My lord, here are the written reports of all
that has transpired since we landed you three

1

CHAPTER IX.
A T HRILLING SCENE.

-


r
iir

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

weeks ago, at Hastings, to go to London," said charge, seeing you hover about the ship like a
that officer, handing him a book. "You will spy, as no doubt you were, captured you. My
find in it that last night we brought to a yacht, first order, before hearing your name, was for
and have detained the parties, one of whom is a your release, for anything you can now report
lady, and now occupies the inner state-room." on land can, do us no harm ; for ere twelve
4 Yes, yes, Edward said something to me hours, we shall be sailing many leagues from
about it," answered the captain; "but as I am  here. But since I learn who you are, I with to
now on board, there can be no harm in letting show you that I am too far above you to crush
them depart. Where is the yacht ?"        such a reptile. Deeply as you have wronged
"It is alongside, my lord."             me--base as you are-recreant as you have
"How many persons did it contain ?"     proved to your oath as a noble, you are too far
" Seven. A gentleman and young lady, one beneath my contempt to come within the notice
passenger, and a crew of four men."       of my vengeance."
" Bring the gentleman before me."         "Who are you ?" demanded Rudolph, with
"My lord, shall I leave ?" asked Guilford, his eyes red with'rage and alarm.
who saw that this was to be a private interview. "I am the Earl of Villiers," answered the cap-
"No; remain where you are, my friend. I tain, in a voice of thunder.
want to talk with you by-and-by."           Instantly Lord Rudolph sunk upon his knees,
The next moment the lieutenant returned, like a man who has been smitten down by some
conducting Lord Rudolph Vane into the state irresistible stroke.
cabin. His face was pale, and his eye had a  " Well may you tremble, caitiff! Ay, I am
tremulous light of fear in it. Guilford instantly that nobleman-that friend of the king, who, by
recognized him, but not caring to be recognized your treachery, was brought to the scaffold, and
in return, he withdrew into the shadow of one of lost my right hand ! Look ye !" and the cap-
the gilded columns that supported the deck tain held up before the eyes of the terror stricken
overhead. But the eyes of Lord Rudolph were young lord, the stump of his wrist. "Under
fixed only on the dark, noble, commanding face mask of courting my daughter, Lady Jane, you
and form of the captain.              .   wormed yourself into a loyal noble's house,
"I am sorry, sir, that my officer, in my ab- crept like a serpent into the sacred circle of my
sence, was under the necessity of detaining you. domestic hearth, crouched like a toad in the
You are at liberty to depart at any moment.-  corner of my library and council rooms till you
May I know whom I have the honor of enter- learned that I was leader of a conspiracy to
training as nay guest ?"                    bring Cromwell's head to the block. . Then,
"Lord Rudolph Vane, of Castle Vane," an- charged with the news, thou didst mock my
*wered the young man, haughtily ; for, finding daughter's love and'leave her, and pour into the
that no danger was to be apprehended, his na- protector's ear all thy treacherous intelligence.
tire insolence and audacity returned.     For this thou wert rewarded with my fair es-
"Ah, my lord, indeed ! I have heard of you," tate as the hire for thy villany, and I and mine
said the captain, with a darkening brow; " and exchanged our sweet home for a prison. But
what I have heard gives your honor not over thanks to thy sister, who, when she heard all
much credit."                             that thou hadst done, and for love of my daugh-
" Do you insult me, sir ?" demanded Rudolph, ter, with whom she studied her books at common
fiercely.                                  tutelage, my hand and not my head satisfied the
" Be calm, my lord. Your ire here will do usurper, and I, with my child, was exiled beyond
you no good. You are in my hands, and if you sea. Well mayest thou crouch and moan.-
knew who I am, you would expect the next mo- There is no man on the round earth into whose
'nent to hear me give the order to have you hands you should so fear to fall as into mine."
hanged at my fore-yard arm." ~              The wretch remained upon his knees, looking
Lord Rudolph shuddered. His face became the very picture of fear and abjectness. The
as pale as marble.                        dread of the death which he felt he richly merit-
" Who-who are you? Whathave youagainst ed was stamped upon his clammy brow. His
me? You dare not harm me."                lips moved, as if trying to form words to ask for
"No man dares oae, Lord Vane. Last night, mercy, yet no sound came from them, as if he
without lowing who you were, my officer in felt.that all-petitions would beinvain.

THE YOUNG

S r. ¢?   Y!
.XY' FF Mw'RF -f -
e+k
t
.          t Nl
'r
r
y         f
'     V I   n
zt'

' What hast thou to answer for thyself, false
and traitorous noble ? Shall I not hang thee ?"
"For my sister's sake !" he gasped, as if he
had caught a faint ray of hope.
" Thy sister ! Ah, yes ; for her sake I would
. do much, for I owe to her tears and eloquence
with the stern, flinty Cromwell, my head. What
of her?"
"She is here ! Let her speak for me."
"By the rood, she may speak for thy life and
gain it ; but thou shalt lose thy right hand this
night, as surely as there is justice on earth."
"Mercy ! mercy-my lord!"
Ho there ! Lieutenant St. Clair ! Call the
men together to execution."
'0, you are not going to kill me!"
"If thy sister pleads not for thy life, it is not
worth a mavaredi to thee ; but thy right hand
shall be cut off. I have sworn it."
With a shriek, the craven noble fell down in a
swoon his full length upon the floor.
A voice from the inner cabin was now heard
in earnest implorations. Guilford, who had
already divined that Lady Catharine was the
female who had been captured, with the yacht,
now recognized the tones, and he darted impul-
sively towards the door; but the sentry present-
ed his cutlass, and held him back. He then ad-
vanced towards the earl, and said with much ex-
citement:
"It is the Lady Catharine Vane, my lord-it
is his sister."
"I will at once speak with her," he answered,
and approached the door, which he unlocked.--
The maiden stood before it, with- her toilette
considerably dishevelled, her rich hair freely
floating upon her shoulders, and her beauty in-
creased by the excitement of her feelings.
" Lady Catharine Vane, I am not your jailer,
but your debtor," said the earl, courteously.
"Why are we detained prisoners? What is
this I have overheard about the execution of my
brother ?" she asked, earnestly.
"Lord Rudolph is not to be executed if you
ask his life ; but he is nevertheless doomed to a
punishment that no mediation can save him
from. In me, lady, you behold Lord Villiers.
This name is enough to show you what Iowe to
your generous interposition, and what I owe to
your brother. Here let me thank you, both for,
my daughter arid for myself, for the life which
you were instrumental in saving from the block."
"Then spare my brother ! 0, he is already
dead !" she exclaimed, on discovering him upon

34

FISHERMAN                             85
the cabin floor, about being raised up and re
vived by some attendants.
"Nay, it is only a swoon"
"0, spare his life, my noble lord I"
" I will do so, for your sake. And he shall
understand that to you alone he owes it."
At this moment, in looking around her, her
eyes fell on Guilford, who was standing near, re-
served and diffident, listening to what was said.
She no sooner beheld him, than she seemed to
forget everything else, everybody about her ; for,
running towards him, she caught him by both
hands, and exclaimed, with the artless delight of
a child, which amid strangers suddenly discovers
a familiar face:
" You here, Guilford!e Heaven be praised ?"
The earl, who saw the act, and observed the
expression of pure delight and frankness upon
her beautiful face, was not a little surprised ;
and when he saw this pleasure reflected from the
handsome features of the young fisherman, he
was not a little perplexed.
" Do not fear, Lady Kate, you are safe, and in
the hands of a noble gentleman," said Guilford,
encouragingly.
" I hope you are not here a prisoner t-that
youare not in any danger ?"
" Be assured, Lady Catharine," said the earl,
smiling, that there is not at this moment a more
honored person in this ship than this young
man, who, I am pleased to see, is also known
to you; to him I owe my life. He brought me
off to my ship inhis boat, and without his gal-
lant aid I should now no longer be alive."
" Thanks-thanksl I am so glad you have
been able to serve the earl. Ah, Guilford, my
brother has done him great wrong. But, my
lord, I beseech thee, forgive him."
"Plead for me, Catharine h" suddenly called
out the young noble, who had been brought to
his senses. "Plead for me."
" She has done so successfully, my lord," an-
swered the-earl, coldly. "She has gained thy
life for thee."
" But my hand ! You will not cut off my
hand?"
" Were an angel to descend from the blue
skies and ask me to spare thy hand, I would
not do it. It is need and ripe justice that thou
shouldst not go unpunished."
"My lord, mercy for my brother.".
" Lady," said the earl, taking the beautiful
maiden by the -hand, and leading her gently
into -the rear state-room, " do not pain me by

F

Ht

k

I 1 -1 -_           - . __ or - -  I - __ - 7 -of i" ____ __ I

.


86                         THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.
compelling me to deny what I cannot grant.- main here. Do not leave until I return to you,"
Believe me, this is not vengeance, but duty. It he said kindly, but firmly. "But for thy pres-
is justice that Lord Rudolph should be compelled ence here, I should have hanged him to the yard
to suffer what he has been instrumental in inflict, arm; not from personal hatred, but because he
ing upon me."                            is so sleepless a foe to the prince. He even con-
" 0, my lord, leave vengeance to him to whom descends to play the spy in the channel in his
it belongeth."                            own person. The lesson he must have. I will
" It is not vengeance. It is punishment. Re- return to you in a few moments."

CHAPTER X.
LORD RUDOLPHis PUN1sHMnr.

Tin Lady Kate set upon the ottoman where his cowardly conduct' at a time when a truly
he had left her with her hands pressed to her brave spirit would meet its fate with proud in-
eyes, and her face buried in the cushions. She difference. But there was nothing truly great,
saw that the earl was inexorable; and although about Lord Rudolph. He could be haughty and
her brother had never been otherwise than hos- cruel in possession of power, but in suffering he
tile towards her ever since she had pleaded so showed in its true colors all the weakness and
successfully for the Earl of Villiers, yet she insignificance of his character.
could not forget that he was her brother; and  " Will no one intercede for me 2" he cried in
although he deserved nothing at her hands, yet despair, seeing Guilford turn away, for he well
she felt that she ought to use all her influence knew that if Lady Kate could not prevail, no
to free him from the disgraceful maiming to word he could utter would be regarded.
which he was about to be subjected.          "Is all ready ?" quietly demanded the earl of
" But I can do no more," she said; "his fate the officer who had superintended the prepara-
is sealed. I saw by the earl's eye as he-left me. tions for the execution of the sentence.
Ah, poor, erring Rudolph; thou canst blame   " All ready, my lord," answered the officer.
only thyself ! Horrid ! that rolling drum must  " Conduct Lord Vane to the deck, unless he
be the signal for the execution of the inflexible will walk of himself."
earl's command !"                            "Is there no mercy with thee ?" screamed the
When the earl returned from the state-room young nobleman.
where he had left the tearful maiden, he found  " Thou mightest as well talk to the axe that
Lord Rudolph, who had recognized Guilford, is to sever thy hand. Proceed with him, as he
and with surprise seen that he was regarded is disposed to linger. Nay, do not handle him
with favor, pleading with the young fisherman roughly, for he is of noble birth."
to intercede for him.                        The young lord was then led to the deck. He
" You are not a prisoner. I know you can was borne along rather than went by his own
forgive me, for you are naturally generous, I will. The scene was terribly imposing. In the
have heard my sister say. Speak a word for centre of the ship, just abaft the capstan, was
me. I cannot endure the loss of my hand ! placed a block. By it stood four men. One of
For my sister's sake, do plead for me !"   them held a glittering battle-axe in his hand;
" I have no power, my lord," answered Guil- another a brazen basin; the third and fourth
ford, who could not conceal his contempt for lanterns. A little in the advance stood the

TIMn Y'OGFISHERMAN.

thirrgeon of the ship, with his instruments and
bandages, added to which was a seething hot
iron, for stopping the flow of the blood. The
crew stood around, seven and eight deep, their
bearded faces lighted up by the lanterns that
hung in the rigging. Farther aft were the offi-
cers, with their swords in their hands.
When Lord Rudolph gazed on this scene, so
well calculated to appal his nerves, he gave
utterance to an audible groan.
"Take him in hand, executioner," said the
earl, " and at the stroke of'the ship's bell, do your
duty. This man," added the earl, looking about
him, "is to undergo a just punishment. By his
information I was condemned to the scaffold;
but through the intercession of a noble maiden,
Cromwell was content with my hand. I have
decreed that this young lord shall share the pun-
ishment which his master inflicted upon me."
At this there was a general murmur of appro-
bation, and the interest deepened. Lord Rudolph,
being led up to the block, was told to take off
his coat. But not obeying, it was removed by
another, and his arm was then stretched out and
bound firmly, in spite of his struggles and shrieks,
to the block. The executioner's axe descended
upon the wrist, and while a thrilling shriek rent
their ears from the victim, the bleeding hand was
caught in the brazen basin. The chirurgeon in-
stantly proceeded to perform his duty, and to
staunch the blood, while the stern earl, turning
away from the spot, re-entered the state-room.
"That act of justice done, I am more content
to be branded as Red Hand, as men, catching
up Cromwell's epithet, have called me, far and
wide. But the protector shall feel that if one of
my hands is baptized in the blood of the scaffold,
the other hath power enough in its strong nerve
to shake his usurped throne !"
The earl walked up and down his cabin three
or four times, under much excitement, which the
recent occurrence had naturally awakened in
his bosom. He then looked around, as if he
were seeking some one.
What, ho ! where is young Graham ?" he
asked of the sentry, who stood by the half open
door which led into the inner apartment.
"He -passed in, my lord, urging that he must
speak with the lady, and as youhad left the door
open, I did not consider that she was to be re-
garded as a prisoner."
"'Very well; you are released from duty."
The man returned, and the earl advanced to
to the door, which was ajar, He opened it, and
3

was about to enter, when he arrested himself on
the threshold at what he beheld. Kneeling at
the feet of the weeping girl, was the young fish-
erman, his hand clasping that of the high-born
girl, and his face approaching hers, and expres.
sive 6f the tenderest and most respectful symy
pathy.
"It is over now, Lady rate ! Tears are now
of no avail! If it would have pleased thee, I
would gladly have taken his place, though thou
knowest I have little reason to love him. But
all who are related to thee are near to me, for
thy sake. Let us be content that his life was
spared, for it was the captain's certain purpose
to have hanged him, but for thee."
" I cannot blame-I cannot reproach. Ru'
dolph must feel the justice of his fate," she said,
with sudden resolution. " But how camest thou
on board this terrible vessel ?".
" I came to bring off the captain, who, being
on shore, was set upon and nearly slain by
Cromwell's troopers; and although I was on
my way, dearest Lady Kate, to the castle to see
thee, I turned aside for his safety, and came
hither, little expecting to find thee on board as
I have done."
" My brother, when he had taken me from
your fishing boat, how I chanced to be in which
I explained to him, Instead of going to land,
hovered in the channel till night, and then be-
gan to watch this vessel, which he was expect-
ing, for he had been out in his yacht for four
nights, waiting to intercept the captain from
the land when he should come on board, as I
heard him say to the young man with him, who
is one of Cromwell's agents. Do you know who
the captain is !" she asked pointedly, and in an,
under tone.
"The Earl Villiers."
" Yes, but are you aware that this ship is that
of the far-famed Red Hand ?"
"Of Red Hand the buccaneer ?" exclaimed.
Guilford, starting to his feet with surprise.
"Earl Villiers and Red Hand, of whom I
have heard you name the bold exploits, are one
and the same person."
"Can this be possible? Are you in the power
of this terrible man ?"
"You mistake him. It is the common people,
the round-heads, who call him a pirate. He is
no buccaneer, Guilford, but an exiled noble, who
has united with himselfsmany brave spirits like
his own,.who, in this #hip, hover about England,
seeking to do all the injury to the usurper's cause

0

10


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN,
that lies in their power, and to have ever ready  "Nothing. Where I am going, I know not,
for the prince an armed 'ship to take him over|But one thing it is proper for me to do, and that
sea when he is driven to his last foothold on his is, to break off a friendship which will only con-
rightful kingdom. There is not a truer noble tinue to embarrass you, when you reflect ipon
breathes in England than Lord Villiers, known your own position and my low station, Perhaps,
as Red Hand. I can forgive him his punish- as younger, it was allowable, as you conde-
ment of Rudolph, for my brother has cruelly scended to suffer it; but, Lady Catharine, I can-
caused all his woe. But of this I will talk with not expect you, in womanhood, to abide by the
you another time."                         friendship of girlhood. Here let me say fare-
"And is this Red Hand's ship ? Is that cap- well; for I may have no other opportunity. May
tain whose life I saved on shore, the daring you one day be united with one worthy of you in
channel cruiser who has defied and beaten off rank and virtues, and I will always pray for your
four of the protector's ships ? Is this the man happiness."
that I have regarded as a hero of romance, and  With these words he knelt, pressedher hand to
whose exploits were the wonder of my curiosity ? 'his lips, and was retiring precipitately, when he
I am glad you have corrected my error with re- found himself face to face with the earl.
gard to him, Lady Date. But he is called Red  "My young friend, do not be so hasty. I have
Hand, the Rover, often."  .                heard and understand all. You have acted no'
" Yes, the covenanters, who fear him, would bly, Your own heart is breaking as a sacrifice
frighten their children with his name as with a to what you believe to be a duty. Lady Cathad
goblin's. But I know that he is a true and loyal rine, you look puzzled and distressed. May I
Englishman, and one of the staunchest friends ask you one plain question ?"
of the crown; and that he does more to keep  " Yes, my lord."
alive the flame of loyalty by his active and sleep- " Are you attached to this brave young man ?'
less courage than any of the exiled lords. He  " We have long been friends, my lord."
alone, as it were, wages war against Cromwell, " Have you any wish to terminate the friend-
who has offered vast sums for his capture. All ship, as you term it ?'
this I have learned from my father, who has the " Indeed, I was never more surprised, when-'
highest regard for him, and who has shed many a  " It is because you do not clearly understand
bitter tear that he should have had a son who him  He feels, and properly, that you and he @
could inflict such injury upon him. 'Confide in can never be united, as if you had both been no-
him, Guilford, and lie will be your friend."  ble ; and being fully alive to the difficulties that
"Lady Catharine," said Guilford, in a changed must interpose to bar such a union, he nobly
and formal tone, while Lord Villiers, who was sacrifices himself."
each moment tempted to enter, but was yet re-  "lHe then does not understand me, my lord.
strained, saw that his face grew pale, and his I have never taken into thought the differences
lips colorless. She looked up into his face, for of our rank. I trust, Guilford, you will think- of
he was standing by her, with a stare of surprise this no more."
at this unusual mode of addressing her.      " You are too kind and generous, Lady Catha-
"What is it, Guilford ?" she asked, artlessly. rine," said Guilford, casting himself at her feet.
"I told you that last night, when I was so "But I must win a name, to make myself more
fortunate as to offer assistance to Lord Villiers, worthy of you, If you waive all rank, I shall
I was on my way to the castle. It was in order try and achieve, instead, merit. It shall be my
to see you and have. a last interview with you, ambition to make myself worthy of you, and
It was to take leave of you forever."      make the world respect him whom Lady Cathad
"Take leave of me, Guilford? Where are you rine Vane thus honors,"
going? or what have I done ?" she asked.
S

A

THE interview with which the last chapter
closed having thus happily terminated, the earl,
after complimenting Guilford on his spirit, pro-
posed to him, if nothing better offered,, to take
service with him in his ship.
" We shall not always be wanderers over the
sea, my friend," he said ; " the prince will one
day gain his throne, and then we shall be at the
top. As for Lady Catharine's heart, you may
be sure that it is in the right place; and I have
a higher regard for you than before, since I find
you possess qualities to win the attachment of
so lovely a lady, who, in the.brightness of your
character, can discover no obscurity of birth.--
Now I have one favor to ask of you," added the
earl, " and that is, that you will take command of
the yacht and convey Lord Rudolph and his
fair sister safely back to Castle Vane. He will,
of course, be something of an invalid, and must
be tenderly cared for. The person who was
taken with him in the yacht, is a spy of Crom-
well's, and I shall take care of him here. If at
any time you wish to join my fortunes, you will
hear of me, if you will run over in your boat to
the French coast, and land on the island of Al-
derney, off Cape de la Hague. At that little
port there is an inn, painted red. The landlord
always knows my term  of absence when I am
away; and any line left there for me will be
faithfully given into my possession when I put
in there."
Guilford thanked the ,earl for his kindness, and
answered that he thought he should very soon
be compelled to take him at his word and seek
service with him.
Thou shalt be welcome, and although I can
do but little for thee under my present fortunes,
some day, when I rise, you will rise with me."
But, my noble earl, I fear," said Guilford,

sadly, " that I shall hardly ever rise so high as
to be able to offer the Lady Catharine a hand
that would not be despised br ier proud house."
" Courage, my brave youth. In these toppling
times, they who are qt the bottom of the ladder
to-day, to-morrow may stand on the top round.
With a face, figure, health and courage like
yours, and above all, with such a prize to win,
you have nothing to fear."
This conversation took place in the outer cab-
in. The officer of the deck now entered and re-
ported that the yacht was alongside, and her
crew on board, and all was ready for her depar-
ture.
" That is as it should be. Now, my young
friend, you must convey Lord Rudolph and the
maiden to Castle Vane. Go on lioard, and
Lady Catharine shall be escorted by me into the
yacht."
Guilford then took a grateful leave of the for-
midable Red Hand, in whose dread presence ho
could scarcely realize himself to have been, and
descended into the yacht. The moonlight shone
brightly upon its low deck, on which, stretched
upon a cot, he saw the prostrate form of Lord
Rudolph, looking ghastly pale in the face. He
advanced towards him, and said, kindly:
" I hope, my lord, you do not suffer a great
deal of pain-!"
"Pain ! I endure infernal torments. Who are
you ? I see, now. What do you want in my
yacht 1"
"I am ordered by Lord Villiers to take charge
of it, and see you safely to Castle Vane, as he
can spare none of his men."
"Where is Tennett ?"
41 Who, my lord ?"
" The gentleman why came with me."
" I heard the earl say that as he was a spy of

CHAPTER XI.
THE RETURN TO CASTLE VANE.

M


r}

I

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

c
3
3
i
i
t
'
f

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

Cromwell's, he should put him in irons. My ter the other; and from one of the towers one
lord. I have no desire to undertake this duty, light, brighter than the rest, shone like the lan-
but it is the earl's command. I am truly sorry tern of a Pharos.
for your misfortune, and will see you to Castle  " That is my father's room, Guilford," said
Vane with all tenderness."                  Lady Kate, seeing that he was regarding it.-
"And Lady Kate ?"                         " Doubtless he is seated there at his books, for
The answer to this interrogation was prevent- he has the name of being a great scholar, thou
ed by the appearance of Red Hand, conducting hast heard."
thenoble girl to the yacht. Guilford sprang  "Perhaps it is to guide thee back."
forward to receive her and lead her to a seat in "Nay, he nor no one is aware that I have been
the stern ; but she stopped short of it, and bent on the sea the last twelve hours. You recollect,
over her brother with affectionate solicitude.  Guilford, that my getting into you  boat was
"Now, my noble young friend," said Lord only the whim of the moment ; and after my
Villiers, "I need not tell you what a valuable brother so strangely took possession of me, I
freight I entrust to your charge. Farewell, and had no chance of return. Perhaps my father
remember," he added, in an under tone, " Alder- supposes that I am in my room; for I am so
ney Isle apd the inn, if you have need of my much accustomed to rove about for hours, that
poor services. And for you, Lord Rudolph, I unless I am particularly wanted, it is not known
wish you a better heart and more true nobility. whether I am in the castle or abroad."
I have given you a daily remembrance of me, so  " I hope you will not have been missed."
I will not ask you to bear me in mind. Adieu,  " Catharine," said Lord Rudolph, in a queru-
fair Lady Catharine. What I have witnessed lous voice.
and learned of the true nobility of your charac- " What,. brother Rudolph ?" she answered,
ter to-night, has caused me to respect you as one hastening to his side. "You have slept well.",
of the rarest jewels among women. You have "I wish to exact an oath from you. I see we
not," he added to her ear, "lightly bestowed are near the castle. Swear to me, by your hopes'
your heart. Believe me, this brave youth will of heaven, that you will never reveal to my
yet cause his name to fill a brilliant page in father nor any other living being the disgrace I
England's history."                         have to-night suffered !"
"I feel it, my lord. He is all that is good, and  " I will not reveal it, brother, if you desire the
noble, and true."                           secret to -be kept."
"Love and cherish him, for women do not     "Desire it to be kept ! It must be kept a
always find men to love. I hope, one of these close secret ! If you do not blab it, and this
.days, to hear of your happiness. Farewell; it fishing friend of yours can be forced to be se-
is but two leagues to your father's castle. Com- cret, I will manage to hide from my friends the
mend me to him; but do not from me excuse loss of my hand. I could never endure the
my punishment of his son, for I have performed scornful laugh, the consciousness of a mutilation
but a stern and painful duty."              so degrading."
"I know it, my lord," she answered, sadly.  " But it must be known, brother."
He pressed her hand to his lips, and left the  " It is known only to the crew of this infernal
deck of the yacht for his own lofty ship.   pirate, not one of whom  will ever dare land in
The next moment the little vessel was cast England. If you keep the secret, and this fel-
off from the huge side of the channel cruiser, and low can be made to do it-"
taking the helm, Guilford gave orders to the  "Guilford Graham is a person who can be
crew to trim the sails, and with a light, but fa- trusted, brother," she said, with earnestness.
vorable breeze, he lay the course of the yacht for  " So you think. He has fascinated you, girl,
the main. The ship at the same time squared by some vile spell. Call him to me. Nay, I
her enormous yards, and her'head'swinging round will not speak to him, but will leave it to you to
westward, she steered on that track till Guilford exact silence from him."
could see her no longer. The yacht, in the    " I will promise it for him. But you forget
meanwhile, bounded lightly along on her land- the four men, your cew."
ward track, and clearer and higher the cliff with " They will not breathe it. They are the min-
its castle, rose before 'him. The lights of the ions of my will. Go and see what this Graham
little fishing village at its base appeared one af- I answers."

. 41

In a frame of mind far from welcome, Lord
Rudolph lay upon his couch; for his pride strug-
gling with a fierce sentiment of hatred and cra-
yen fear, and mingling with some little degree
of remorse, kept up a fearful tempest of passion
in his inmost soul. Lady Catharine left him
on her message to Guilford, a prey to emotions
of perfect torture. However, by an effort
stronger than was his wont, he checked their
away, and awaited, coolly as he might, the an-
swer of Guilford.
" H: says he has no desire to report it," she
answered, after going to the helm where Guil-
ford stood, steering the vessel in towards the
foot of the cliff.
"1I shall take care to keep it myself," he mut-
tered, smiling, as if he heard her words with
evident satisfaction.
The yacht now drew nearer the land, and was
soon within the black shadow cast by the tall
cliff. A few minutes afterwards she came to
the stone pier, where the boats of the castle were
usually moored. Here Guilford' brought the
yacht skilfully to alongside the landing steps.--
The men obeyed his orders in furling the can-
vass and making her fast; and then taking the
cot up on which the young lord was lying, they
proceeded to bear him ashore, and convey him
up the steep path to the castle. Guilford gave
his whole attention to the comfort of the invalid,
taking care that thbe men moved steadily and
cautiously, while Lady Kate went on before.-
At length they reached the gate of the castle,
here, after delivering his charge to the warder,
to whom Lord Rudolph said he had been mere-
ly wounded in a duello, he left to return to his
own home. But he had not advanced ten steps
from the portcullis, ere he was detained by the
voice of Lady Kate, close at his side.
" Why, Guilford, you do not well to take your
leave so quickly, or rather no leave at all. You
have not given me time to thank you."
"I did but fear to irritate your brother more
if he Saw,me take leave of thee," he answered,
pressing to his lips the hand she placed in his.
" You are too guarded, Guilford. You know
not how proud I have been of you this day and
night past. I cannot return without expressing
my sense of your noble delicacy. I appreciate
and understand it all. From this time we know
each other, and you will not mistrust me ?"
"Mistrust thee, Lady Kate ?",
"Nay, that is not the word, exactly. But you
will not doubt my regard for you ?"

40

L

" I cannot ; you are too kind, when you know,
as I now do fully, how far beneath you I am."
" Love knows no rank. You are worthy of
me, or I should never have loved or cared for
you. How like you Red Hand ?"
"And that noble gentleman and right hearted
patriot was the famous sea king I have heard so
much of. How difficult it is for me to realize
that in the Earl Villiers I saw none other than
that celebrated captain."
"Do you not like him?"
"It seems to me I could diewfor him."
" So do all men who know him, my father
says; and he is not the least of his friends. But
how shall I forgive him his act of to-night ?"
" It was terrible retribution, Lady Kate, but
was it not deserved ?"
" I cannot deny it. My brother has deeply
wronged him; and perhaps it is just he himself
should endure something of the suffering he has
inflicted upon him. It was a mercy that he
spared his life. Now, my noble friend, since we
must part, tell me frankly where you are to go-
what course you have marked out for yourself,
so that one day you may come back and ask my
hand of my father; for, as thou bast said thou
must achieve somewhat to please him and give
thee honor. I will wait thy time, true to thee,
even to death, so that thou comest not in life to
claim me as thine."
This was spoken with all the truthfulness and
sweet confidence of a woman who loves with all
her heart.
"I have hardly formed a plan, dear Lady
Kate. I will, by to-morrow,. decide. But my
mind is so full of the Earl of the Red Hand, that
I shall probably decide by going to offer him my
services."
" That would please me, Guilford. He thinks
much of you. Though he is now but the head
of a small company, and commands but a single
ship under good King Charles the First, he was
lord high admiral, and ruled navies by his nod."
"I will follow his fortunes."
" Thou wilt not be led astray? The times
are ripening, my father says, for the throne to
have its own again. The land is weary of the
protectorate and its tyranny. Prince Charles
has been defeated, it is true, and is now a fugi-
tive, either in Scotland or England, at this mo-
ment ; but if he escape over sea, he will then be
the rallying point for armies of tens of thous-
ands."
" It was rumored yesterday," said Guilford,

/'


!IT
tt
i
{L
s 4
E
}
f
}
R4
5
f
w S
f
f
g
F
Yt
f
gg
R
ii
iF
C
E
k
s

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

" that the prince had been seen in Warwick in
the disguise of a pack-man, travelling south. It
was also reported that one who had known him
perfectly, saw the same pack-man in Berkshire,
south of Oxford, two days afterwards."
" We heard of this; and doubtless the reports
are true, and the prince is making his way to
the south of England, hoping to find a passage
across to France."
" Heaven grant that he may reach France in
safety, and foil all his foes," said Guilford, with
warmth. " But Cromwell is so vigilant, his
emissaries are so numerous, his spies so vigilant,
that every person who cannot give a satisfactory
account of himself, will be placed under arrest."
The lovers had now reached the point in the
path down the cliff where it became precipitous.

0

Here they stopped, and Lady Kate, taking
Guilford by the hand, looked him earnestly in
the eyes, and said:
" You are going to seek your fortune and win
a name. But remember, I do not ask either
from you; but they are your own voluntary
wish; and never forget that, if after all, you
should return unfortunate, and without the suc-
cess you hope for, you will be received by me
with the same affection with which I now part
from you."
The lovers now took leave of each other, and
Guilford hastened down the precipitous path
without trusting his eyes to look back and take
another look of theI fair form which he knew was
lingering to gaze after him.

I

CHAPTER XII.

SURPRISING INTELLIGENCE TO GUILFORD.

S

Tim way by which he now left the castle was inn yonder to the Prince Charles, when thehe
not that which descended to the beach, where Cromwell troopers set upon me, and would ha'
the boats usually were, but a path thatled north- slain me outright, but for Dame Bess, the hos-
ward don the hill towards the country-side, tess, who took my part, and told them roundly
and which conducted persons who left the castle I was but a poor innocent, and meant nobody
for the interior, to the main road a mile off.- no harm, and wouldn't hurt a fly, as thou kno*-
Upon reaching the deep glen at the foot of the est, Master Guilford."
eminence, Guilford struck into a broader cart-  " What have Cromwell's troopers to do in the
way that went in the direction of the village. inn ?"
He -walked onward, lost in his own thoughts,  " Cromwell's troopers ? What, hast thou not
and thinking upon the charges of the future.- heard the news ? This is a godsend, then, if
He had emerged from the little dale, and thou hast not heard what I supposed every man,
had the village roofs in sight, when the voices of woman and child in all the village had heard.-
singing and bacchanalian carousing reached his Why, if there is one trooping roundhead in the
ears. He stopped, surprised at what he heard, port, there is two hundred and fifty o' the shaven
and then hastened forward to ascertain the cause crowned, psalm-singing rogues."
of such unusual sounds. He had gone but a ' " What are they doing here ? When did they
few steps further, however, when he saw a man come?" asked Guilford, with surprise ; for hav-
seated by the roadside, groaning in a most pitia- ing left the village just before their arrival the
ile way. He approached him, and recognized evening before, he knew nothing of the objectof
Digby, the well known village busybody and this new invasion of the covenanters, though
gossip.                                    that a party of them were in the town he was
"Up, man, up ! What aileth thee, tigby ?" aware, from their chase of the captain. But he
"What, is it thee, Master Guilford ?" asked was ignorant of the particulars.
the man, starting to his feet and hugging the  " They came galloping in about sundown, and
young fisherman with great delight. "I am  what could not find quarters at the inn, dis-
glad to see thee !"                        persed over the hamlet, till there is not a house
" What hath happened?   Thy clothes are that has not a brace o' them to kiss the lasses
torn half off thy back, and thou hast blood on and eat out the larders. As for what they ha'
thy cheek."                               come for, it is to keep watch that Prince Charles
" Marry have I ? Blood shed for the prince. don't find shipping at our little fishing town and
You mst know that I did but fill a cup in the get safe over to France."

g

42


r
r
1       r;
t
6
RPyj
F
i
4
s   .r
r
tt
} C

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

" This is news, indeed, for our quiet town, the lusts of flesh, and the pride of life, and the
Digby. -I knew some had been here, but sup- allurements of Sathanas. And who is that with
posed they had left. Dost thou know whether thee ?"
there are any of these roundhead rogues at  " A poor wretch whom I take to fish with me
my cabin ?"                               at times."
" Marry, come up, I verily believe that the " Let me look at thee closer, thou poor wretch,
two most truculent fiends among 'em, the two for a king's eye might hide itself under the
Goliaths of Gath, are making themselves at shadow of a beggar's cowl."
home there."                                With this the trooper extended the point of
"Then I ought to be there at once," said the his long sword, and catching the cap of Digby
young man, hurrying forward.              upon its end, raised it into the air. He then
"But be discreet. I would advise thee en- made him approach close to his stirrup, and
treat them civilly."                      lboked keenly into his round, pug-nosed, bloated
" I shall be discreet, you may rest assured. I visage.
shall take care notto propose Prince Charles's "'By the beard of Herod, thou art the prince of
health to a brace of covenanters," he added, ale-pots, and must have too much dread of water
laughing.                                 to think of crossing it. Thou wilt never cross
"Nay, take me with thee. Let me keep under over to France and drink sour wine, while thou
the protection of thy valiancy, good Master cast grow lusty on good ale in England. What
Guilford. When I got my head broke, I went is thy name, sir Rubicund?"
to thy house first, but the good dame told me " Digby-David Digby, your highness," an-
thou hadst taken the way to the castle last; and swered the gossip, with humility.
although after midnight I came this way to wait " Thou shouldst be called Balaam," answered
for thy coming, and I will not leave thy back the trooper, who, at this moment, seeing another
while a roundhead varlet bath footing in the person running down the street, left Digby and
town. There is nothing like courage to defend spurred towards him.9
a man against dangers ; and if a man have it  " By my head, this fellow would as lief eat me
not himself, he must seek it elsewhere ; and unsodden, as he would a hare, Master Guilford.
marry, I know thou hast enough for thee and Didst mark his teeth ?" -
me. - Hark ! hear the arrant hypocrites sing Guilford, however, had taken the opportunity
their long winded Old Testament verses. There to walk on towards the gate of his house, andhe
was one chap o' them who had a beard like a was about opening it, when he perceived two
lion, who did nothing but sing over a chapter of persons seated within it upon a little wooden
proper names, as 'Moses begat Boaz,' and by the settle,, which, of an evening, was a common
way he rolled his eyes up, one would have fan- family resort.-
cied he got great grace from the employment."  "It is Guilford !" exclaimed one of the per-
Digby went on talking after this fashion, until sons, springing up on seeing him.
they came to a lane turning towards the water  "What, Anne?  Up so late?  It is near
from the main street, on which the hamlet was morning."
built. At the foot of this lane stood his own  "I know it, cousin, but-but--one could not
cottage. At the corner of it lie was challenged sleep with two soldiers within; and besides, they
by a trooper mounted on a black horse.    have my bed; and moreover, aunt Betsy bade
" Who goes there?"                      me wait without and watch for your return."
"A fisherman."                            " Guilford, you do not know me here in the
"Advance, and let me see if thou smellest shadow."
Ashy," answered the man, in a coarse manner.  " What, Robin? Is it you-?"
Guilford approached him, and taking off his  "I have been keeping thy cousin Anne com-
bonnet, boldly showed him his face.       pany, waiting for thee. I would not leave her
" Where dost thou live ?"               and your mother alone during your absence, with
" There !" he answered, pointing at his house. two troopers in the house."
" And what art thou doing abroad so late, for " You are very kind, Robin. I know not how
it is well to two o'clock in the morning ?"  to thank you. But," he added, smiling, "I sup-
"I have been a trusting."               pose you have not been without your sweet re-
"So I guessed; but, young man, beware of ward, from what I saw as I interrupted you."

,{       4
j4
rY
l   f
i,

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

Robin colored, and Anne held down her head. keeping thee company as quietly as if thou wert
"Not the least sign of jealousy does he show," his sister, and now marches into the house, bid-
she said to herself, with disappointment. " He ding me keep the company a little longer. Does
does not care for me, or love me as Robin does. this look as if he loved thee, thinkest thou?"
I will never let him know I have loved him,  "I am satisfied now, Robin," answered Anne,
since he is so cool and indifferent about it."  with tears in her eyes. " I see that lie cares
"Where are these men, Robin ?" asked Guil- nothing for me."
ford.                                   -    "Then why wilt thou not care for me? I
" One is asleep, with his head laid on the ta- love thee with all my heart ! I will try and
ble; the other is stretched on the bed in boots make thee happy. You will never find a truer
and sword, and snoring away like a swine."  heart than that I offer thee."
"So much the better. Where is my mother ?"  "I will be thine, Robin. I know you love
"She is in the back room," said Anne; "but me. I will think no more of my cousin Guil-
I have a-"          '                      ford."
"Have what ?" asked Guilford, seeing her   At hearing this, the happy Robin caught the
hesitate and draw back, after seeming about to fair girl to his heart, .and imprinted upon her
make some important communication to him.  lips the seal of betrothal. The kiss was strange.
"I forgot.. Nothing."                   ly cchoed, as if a person had thrust his finger
"You remain here with Anne, Robin, until I into his cheek and drawn it out quickly, causing
return," said Guilford. " I wish to speak a few a popping sound. Both looked up and behold
words with my mother. I have then something Digby.
I wish to say to you."                       " Thatis what I like to see," lie said. "Noth-
" I will stay with Anne with pleasure," an- ing like loving one another. Well, I'll let the
swered Robin. "Now, sweet Anne, what did I whole village know of it to-morrow; and when
tell thee? Did I not say he loved thee only as you are married you must invite Digby. You
a cousin ? Thou seest he cared not a stiver for can't have a weddin' without Digby. Nothing
my, being with thee so many hours of moonlight, goes on right without Digby. Where's Master
whereas, if he had loved thee, he would have Guilford gone, Miss Anne ?"
shown his jealousy ; for beshrew me ! suppose I,  " In the house," answered the maiden, blushing
loving thee as I do should ha' come home late and laughing. "O, you eavesdropper ! Come
at night and found thee up with a young fellow hither, Digby. If you will say nothing about
in a bower, his aria about thy waist, and thy this, I will give you a silver sixpence next Sat.
hand in his ; should I not ha' taken fire, and had urday night, to drink the prince's health."
"   a quarrel with thee on the spot ?  To be sure.  " Well, I wont. blame me if I do," answered
Love would act no otherwise. But what does Digby, as he stretched himself upon one of the
thy cousin Guilford dg ? He thanks me for settles to sleep.'

44

45

F.
r
ig


Xit
1r
I.

GUILFORD found the door of the cottage ajar,
and pushing it softly, he entered the small,
plainly furnished front room. A lamp filled
with fish oil burned upon the table, with a huge
" thief"upon the wick. By its light he saw the
two troopers. Upon a small truckle bed in the
corner lay one of them, sleeping off the pota-
tions of negus with which he and his comrade
had been abundantly plied by the good dame,
who desired to get them in a state of quiescence
as soon as possible ; a result in which she had
admirably succeeded. Sleeping heavily, and
with a loud, sonorous breathing, the other
trooper sat by the table, his head among the
cups, and resting on his thickly gloved hand.-
His black beard lay out upon the board like a
mop, while the light shone upon his round, close-
ly shaven head, giving it the appearance of a
porcupine rolled up into a ball. By the side of
his head lay his pistolet, the grasp of his hand
holding it loosely in his sleep. The two men re-
minded Guilford of two wild beasts he had once
seen crouched and reposing in a cage.
Having surveyed the scene, he stepped across
the threshold and passed lightly into the room.
He stood for an instant looking at the sallow
face of Strait-gate, who lay on the bed, and
wondering that so wicked a countenance could

army, who, with a few scraps of the Old Testa-
ment on their lips, passed for pious covenanters,
and under the cloak of religion, did all sorts of
enormities.A
"Let them sleep ; I have no wish to disturb
them," said Guilford, passing on and opening
the inner door of his mother's room. "I have
already placed one of their number in the sleep
that knows no waking." And with this recollec-
tion of what lie had done the evening before,
came over his mind for the first time the thought
that he might possibly be recognized by some
of the party who had been nighest when he shot
the soldier, though it was moonlight and not
broad day, and no one came within twenty
yards of him, save the horseman who was
drowned in attempting to swim his horse round
the promontory.
Upon hearing the door open, his mother looked
up from her needle, and seeing him, uttered an
exclamation of joy, and going towards him to
meet him, made at the same time a gesture of
silence and warning.'
"Iam so glad you have returned, my dear
son," she said, as she led him to a seat. " You
have been gone full eight hours."
"It has been an eventful eighthours to me, my
dear mother."

have a soul quiet enough to sleep. As for   "I have been trembling lest you should have
Broad-way, he saw in him one of those half dev- come into collision with Lord Rudolph, at the
ils, half highwaymen, so common in Cromwell's castle. Did you see the Lady Kate, my boy 1"

" Yes, mother, and all is as I would desire. I
will tell you by-and-by, when we are alone.-
Those men in the other room must have annoyed
you not a little."
" They did at first, but they soon drank them-
selves to insensibility. But where is Anne, that
she did not come in with you ?"
" She is at the gate with Robin."
"Yes. He loves her, and I wish she could re-
turn his attachment. She had best come in, now
you are at home ; but I sent her out, as the soldiers
got to be something rude of speech towards her."
" They had best keep their tongues under
civility," answered Guilford, "or I will show
thea that there are men in England besides
Cromwell's myrmidons."
" Hist, Guilford! They will hear you. As it
is,they do not suspect us of being opposed to the'
government. But listen to me; I have some-
thing of moment to communicate to thee ; and
for this I have been so anxious to have thee come
back."
"But first hear what will please you, my dear
mother. My interview with Lady Kate resulted
in her refusal to permit me to cease to think of
her, and it is decided that I am to seek my for-
tune in the world, and some bright day come
back to ask her hand."
" Ah, my boy, fortune is fickle. But the Lady
Catharine shows a truly noble nature."
"I have no doubt that I shall be able to win
some name that will make me less obscure, and
more worthy to ask her hand of her noble father.
Would she wed me to-morrow, I am too proud
to become her husband as I am-a poor young
fisherman. I will win rank and name, and lay
them at her feet., Because she loves me in my
humble state, shall I willingly consent that she
shall wed one so lowly ? Shall I thus reward
her generous love ?"
" Thou art noble in mind, my boy," said his
mother, " and deservest her."
"Mother, thou hast heard of Red Hand ?"
" Oi Red Hand, the noted sea warrior, whose
very name strikes such terror along the coast !
What of him, Guilford ?"
" Dost thou know his history ?"
-        "Nay, I do recollect that it is said he was one
of King Charles's nobles, and that, when he was
to have been executed, he placed his hand be-
neath the axe instead of his head, and with the
other wrenched the weapon from the headsman's
grasp, and with it cut his way to the water-side
ana escaped in a ship."

CHAPTER XIII.
AN INTERESTING COMMUNICATION.

THE YOUNG

FISHERMAN.                             47
" This is partly true."
" I know Cromwell has a reward for his head,
and therefore-"
" You fancy he must be a pirate."
"I know not what he is. Men say he is great-
ly to be feared. He has burned full a score of
castles and towns on the sea coast."
" These were those places in which Crom-
well's minions dwelt-places, of which, by false-
hood and wrong, they had robbed loyal nobles.
I have seen this sea king, and spoken with him,
mother."
"Spoken with Red Hand?"
" Yes ; I have been on board his vessel, which
to-night was not two leagues from the land,
o p site the village. He is a proper gentleman.
He is the Earl of Villiers, a true-hearted noble-
man, and friend of both the late king and Prince
Charles."
" Speak lower, for there are strange ears near
us."
" The two brutes are asleep, and I pray they
may not wake till morning. Yes, mother, Earl
Villiers is a true English gentleman. He com-
mands a ship because he cannot command a
fleet. His wars are made only against the
usurper. His ship is the only remnant of the
true British navy, and he the only British ad-
miral, as Charles, the wanderer prince, is the
only British king. But these things will not
always be so. In a few days I shall, if nothing
more favorable turns up, offer myself to this
admiral of the Red Hand, and win fame under
his flag."
" If this terrible captain be a true earl, who
only seeks the rights of his king, I do not say
aught against this, Guilford, save that I shall be
grieved to have thee leave my roof and my side.
But mothers cannot always hope to have their
boys with them; and I hope to see you yet dis-
tinguish yourself."
" You will not be alone, mother. Anne will
remain, and if she marries Robin-
" Marries Robin? I wish she would, indeed."
"There is little doubt of it from what I saw
to-night. They are lovers, or lovers never
were."
" That is good news at last. Iknew she need
never look to you."
"Look.to me, mother I Who "
"Anne. Bless me, how odd you have never
seen it in her eyes. She has loved you better
than cousins ought to love, Guilford."
"4I was not aware of it. But now you speak

t
l
1
t

1l


48

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

of it, I do recollect some things that make me altogether such an appearance of weariness and
think you are right. But Robin will make her flight, that I at once felt my charity warm to-
far happier. They will marry and live with  wards him kindly; and knowing how many
you, and you will hardly miss me. I will have good men there are who are wanderers in their
my boat repaired to-morrow, and give it to you. own, or what is worse, foreign lands, I bethoughr
Has there been any excitement in the village me this man might be one of them. The idea
to-night, early in the evening? rave you heard that he was a robber or a criminal never once
anything about any of the troopers having been entered my mind. He asked me in a voice that
h" uey  iwas courteous and respectful, if I would conceal
"Surely I did. Fuss enough was made about him before the soldiers came back."
it. The troopers here heard firing, and went  "Then le knew they were quartered here?"
out, and after a long time came back, and swore said Guilford, who had listened with therdeepest
dreadful oaths, and said some smugglers had interest to her words. tp
shot three ofhtheir party who were pursuing a " Yes; for he had plainly been watching their
loyalist. They made great talk of it in their departure; and as they went out one way, he
cups, and swore dreadfully how they would on came in another way, as I told you. I instantly
the morrow have vengeance."                closed this door, dropped the curtains, that no
"Smugglers they said, did they, mother ."  one might see into the room, and pointing to the
"I believe so; but do not raise your voice so ladder, told him to conceal himself at once in
loud; for I dare say we've been overheard in the loft. He obeyed at once, and having
half we've said by thepoor gentleman, if by him food and drink, I removed the ladder.
h    h                                     "Have you spoken with him since ?"
Here the good dame cast her eyes up at the  "Not a word. He is as quiet as the grave.
trap in the ceiling.                       I think he must be asleep ; for he looked ready
"What poor gentleman? What do you mean, to drop. You should have seen what a white
mother ?"                                  hand he had."
"Hush l  the troopers '11 hear you, and then  " How old a man is he ?"
it's all up with him, be he peasant or prince,  " About thirty; but he looked pale and hag-
gentle or simple. There  is a  an hid up in the gard, and might not have been so much."
emp d tshe added, whispering close in his  " How was he dressed ?"
ear, and then clapping her fingers across his  "In a sort of grayish black, plain and coarse,
mouth. seNot a word. I fancy he is a loyalist. and much worn and road soiled. His hair was
Don't speak, and I'll tell you all about it, for I jet black, and so were his eyes ; and his manners
want your advice to know what to do with were those of a gentleman ; that I saw at once."
him." "I would like to know who he is, mother,",
"If he is a loyalist, I will aid him to the best said Guilford, who had listened to all she had
of my ability, mother. But when and how did said with the liveliest attention. He is without
he come here ?"                            doubt one of the prince's friends, who are now
"That I will tell you. You see, after you hunted like wild beasts throughout the king-.
went out, and had been gone a little while, the dom"
two soldiers came in and invited themselves to  " What if it should be the prince himself?"
take up their quarters for the night. After eat- whispered the good dame, with a wistful look.
e       ,g their supper and drinking, they got up and  " It can hardly be; yet it is clear he is ex-
went out, as they said, to make a search of the peeted to seek the coast, and should he do so,
premises, to see what out-houses, boats, hiding. he is likely to come pretty much as this stranger
places and such things, for concealing and has, presented himself to you. Whoever he is,
escapingin we had."                       he needs our protection, and his life may depend
"HstThe    ds 1"on our care and discretion."
" Hista  They had not gone out scarcely, be-  " What can be done ?"
fore I saw a face looking in upon me at that  " That must be reflected upon, dear mother.
window. Before I could make out who it might It will not be safe for him to remain where he is.
be, the window was raised, and in stepped a If a search of the house should take place, the
stranger. He came so lightly to the floor, looked loft will not escape their eyes. I must, however,
so beseechingly and suffering-like, and had first see him and know what he would have."

r

4:

'
°
I

j

OWL

i

CHAPTER XIV.
OUILFORD's PLAN FOR ESCAPE.
Tnus speaking, Guilford returned into the beholding his face. Asking his mother for a
front room, where the two men still slept heavily light, he ascended with it, and bidding her re-
as before, and in the same postures. He then move the ladder, he closed the trap and stood
looked out of the door, and seeing Robin and face to face with his guest.
Anne seated beneath the arbor, quite oblivious,  The countenance he beheld was wholly un-
apparently, of the passing time he softly regain- known to him, but answered to his mother's
ed the room where his mother was, and bolted description as that of a pale, harassed looking
the door which led between the two apartments. young cavalier of thirty, with black hair and
"Now, my dear mother, I want you to take a eyes, and an intellectual expression.
seat against this door, and if the soldiers either " Whosoever you may be, sir, you are a wel-
of them should wake and attempt to come in, come guest beneath our humble roof," said Guil-
tell them that it is your private room, and they ford. " What can I do for you? for I presume
cannot be admitted. On no account suffer them you are one of the Prince's friends."
to enter; and if they force the door,. I will shoot " Yes, my dear young man, and I have sought
them down. I am going to have an interview the sea coast with the forlorn hope of obtaining
with this stranger, whose misfortunes have driv- passage in some fishing boat to the French coast.
en him for shelter to our roof."          But I find that the coast is vigilantly guarded,
Thereupon Guilford replaced the ladder to its and in this very house are quartered some of
usual place beneath the trap -door, and ascended Cromwell's troops."
it. He tapped lightly upon the ceiling, and was  " Yes, two drunken rogues, shaven like monks
answered by another rap equally low.      and bearded like Turks, now sleeping off their
"Are you asleep, sir ?" asked Guilford.  potations in the room below."
"No," answered the voice ; and the trap was  " This would be a favorable time to elude
cautiously raised. " I know you are come to them if a boat could be had. Art thou not a
me as a friend, for I have overheard your con- fisherman ?"
versation with your mother. I therefore let you  " Yes, sir cavalier, but my only boat was to.
up without suspicion. I am inexpressibly thank- day, or rather yesterday, stoven, and is not fit to
ful to find myself in the house of two such loyal push off."
friends as I find you and the good dame are."  " I will give thee All the gold I have,-which is
These words were spoken in an under tone, one hundred louis, to purchase another for me."
but with a cadence that pleased Guilford's ear,  " Thou wilt need all thy gold, sir cavalier. t
and attracted him at once to the stranger before can obtain another boat of a comrade, but-"

i
t
-;
F
1


_
tis

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN

"But what, my young friend ?" asked the
stranger, who seemed to hang on his words with
nervous eagerness.
" The difficulty is to get off from the coast
unseen. There are not only troops placed in
our houses, but they are posted as sentries along
the streets, and have the beach in full view for
miles. It would be almost impossible to get a.
boat off with any chance of success."
The stranger clasped his hands together with
an expression of anguish.
" So near liberty, and yet not to be able to
obtain it !"
" Does thy life pay the forfeit, sir, of thy cap-
ture ?" asked Guilford, whose heart was deeply
moved by his acute distress.
" Assuredly, my friend."
" And thou art a true friend of the prince ?"/
"He has none nearer."
"Then I will save thee if it be possible, by
aiding thee to reach the French shore. But the
prince, where is he ? Hast thou any tidings of
him since he was seen last in Scotland ?"
" He still wanders. Like me he seeks to find
shelter in France. Suppose I were the Prince
Charles himself, what couldst thou do for me, if
I told thee I was really in thy hands ?"
"I would save thee or perish !" answered
Guilford; "and I will do all I can for one who
loves him  and suffers for him. - Here it is not
safe for thee-to remain till morning."
" Young man," said the stranger, "if thou
safest me, the prince will not fail to reward
thee."
"I ask no reward, sir cavalier, save success.
I will ere long return to you. I will go and see
how I can best secure your safety."
With these words Guilford took leave .of his
guest, deeply interested in him, and opening the
trap door, dropped lightly to the floor.
" Mother, he is a cavalier, and friend of the
prince, and his life is forfeit if he be taken. He
brings no other news of Prince Charles than
that he is a wanderer like himself. Now I must
get him out from here, and to the sea-side. I
have resolved to try and get him across the
channel."
" You will risk your own life, my son."
"'Do not think of me, mother. I shall do
nothing rashly. Give me thy brown long gown
and shawl and hood."
" Here they are. What wouldst thou with
them ?"
" To handthem up to our guest to put on."

Guilford suited the action to the word, by
rolling the articles in a bundle and passing them
up to the fugitive.
"Put these on, and wait till I knock thrice
on the trap, and then come boldly down. Now,
mother," he added, as the trap door was once
more closed, and the ladder carefully removed,
" I want you to put on your other shawl and
hood and walk out with me."
" Whither ?"
"It matters not, dear mother, Do not ask
me questions that I perhaps can't answer but
if you will kindly do as I say, we may save the
young cavalier."
" I will be guided by you in everything, my
son," said she, putting on her shawl and hood.
" That is right, mother. These barbarians of
Cromwell's are still snoring. They sleep sound
as moles."
" I drugged their negus to make them sleep
and keep them quiet,' answered his mother.
" That accounts for it. It is the more favora-
ble to us. Now take my arm and come with
me."
The good dame placed her arm in his, and
crossing noiselessly the room where the troopers
were, they went out by the gate of the cottage.
Here they met with Robin and Anne, who hard-
ly realized how the night they had so lovingly
passed was wearing towards morning. They
both started consciously as they saw dame Gra-
ham and Guilford.
" You've come at last, Guilford," said Robin,
not knowing anything else to say.
"Yes; and I warrant me you were not over
weary waiting for me. I want you, Robin."
" Anne, you had best go softly in and remain
in the back room; if the troopers should wake
up, you can bolt the door.",
"Let Anne wait here by the gate, mother.-
You will not be away five minutes. Robin, go
to your boat; place secretly three days' provis-
ions in it, and put off as expeditiously as you
can, as if on a fishing cruise. Soon as you get
out half a mile, lower your sails and row back
in the direction of the beach rock; landing be-
yond it on the castle side. There you will find
me to take me on board. Do not delay, and be
discreet and cautious ; for the least imprudence
will create suspicion among the coast guard."
Robin signified his readiness to do as his
friend Guilford had directed, and immediately
left the cottage gate and walked towards his
own cabin, a quarter of a mile further east,

Y
trF,
i
it
F}
fir
*Tb
t'
1      _f
S

y

i.

along the shore-curved street of the little port
He was stopped by two troopers, who, satisfying
themselves that he was a fisherman, and not a
prince in disguise, let him pass. At the door of
his own hut he found three of the guard seated
drinking ale, and eating rolls and dried fish.-
He adroitly got them into conversation upon the
comparative speed of boats and horses, and
drew them down to the cove, fifty paces off,
where his own smack lay, and got them to ex-
amining it, lie the while descanting upon its
speed. He then proposed to show them with
what rapidity he could row it, saying: " As it is
near day, it is time I should get ready to go out
to fish; but first I will show you her mettlT."
He then went in for his oars, and at the same
time filled a bag with fish and bread, and took
a beaker of fresh water with him. These he
placed in the boat before their eyes, trusting to
their absence of all suspicion that he had any
second purpose in view. At length, having got
all prepared, he loosed his boat and got to his
oars, and was about to row her out, when a
fourth, in the uniform of a sergeant, came up
and demanded what boat was putting off."
"A fisher's lad going off to cruise the day in
the channel catching fish," answered a trooper ;
"and lie has bet a hundred mackerel that his
boat, with two oars, can beat the best hunter in
England."
"le is a braggart," answered the sergeant.-
"But who has been in the boat and seen that
there is no Prince Charley hidden in the caddie.
By the beard of Cromwell, it would hide two
men!"
"No one has searched," answered one of the
troopers.
The boat was detained and the cuddle care-
fully examined, when, as nothing was discovered
like a refugee, and Robin being clearly the only
person on board, he was suffered to put off.-
His bungling rowing to and fro, however, as lie
knew it would be, was laughed at by the soldiers,
and having acknowledged that his craft was not
in trim, he hoisted sail, and told them that when
he hail caught the hundred mackerel, he would
not fail to pay his bet. He was soon rapidly
leaving the shore behind, and the 'forms of the
soldiers soon blended with the indistinct objects
on the land. When he had gained half a mile
from the beach, he lowered his two sails, and
taking to his oars, pulled towards the point
nearly a mile westerly, where Guilford had
promised to be found.

We now return to the young fisherman who
was so generously about to attempt to save his
guest from the power of the usurper. When
Robin took leave of him to go on the mission
we have seen him accomplish so successfully,
Guilford, with his mother leaning on his arm,
walked along the village street ia the direction
which led towards the castle. They soon cane
to two troopers, who-were standing in the street
acting as guards. The moonlight shone full
upon them, and in one of them Guilford recog-
nized the soldier who had before challenged
him. As the young man and his mother drew
near, one of the men stepped across the way
and presented his broad-sword.
' What, pray, is this, my fine couple ?" he
said, with a laugh.
"This is my mother ; and as for me, I told
you who I was some while ago," answered
Guilford, firmly.
" Yes, I recollect thee now.; but we must see
thy face. We must not let any nose pass us
under cover. A woman's hood, before now, has
hid a man's beard."
Dame Graham put back her hood and showed
him a dignified, but pale, matronly face, that
abashed his insolence.
"Pardon us, ma'am, but we have to be
strict."
"Can we pass on ?" asked Guilford.
" Whither ?"
" To the castle. There is a sick person with-
in one of the apartments who suffers, and your
orders are not so strict as to prevent passing to
and fro on the land ?"
"No; it is the sea we are to watch."
Guilford then went on a few steps, and when
beyond ear-shot, he whispered hurriedly to his
mother:
"Pretend that thou bast forgotten the lint,
and go back as for it; but instead of coming
back thyself, send the guest, telling him I wait
here, and that he must join me and take my
arm without a word. in your place. They will
not a second time lift the veil."
"I now understand all," said his mother.
"Sir soldier, my mother would return a mo-
ment to the house for something," he said, re-
turning where the two men stood. "Be quick,
dear mother, and I will remain talking with
these brave soldiers."
The good dame hastened towards her house,
leaving Guilford with the troopers

60

61

'
T
'          s-
'
t}"      fr
f
jj
S1}}
_         M

k'
-r

A'

I

Y
kR
k


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

'2;;~

CHAPTER XV.
SUCft288 OF GUILFORD'S MANSUVRE.
"'Tou art a tall youth to be under thy , famed Red Hand, the channel cruiser, because
mother's eye still, young man," said the trooper his right hand was missing. But for my part,
who had been chief spokesman. "Fishing must the blood of one royalist is as red as that of
be fool's pastime for a brave spirit as thine another."
should be by thine eye. Why wilt thou not en- . "tost thou expect to find smugglers on the
list in the troop, and follow the fortunes of a coast to-morrow ?" asked Guilford, whose eyes
soldier ?"                                 were anxiously turned towards the gate of the
" My mother has only me, and if I should fall cottage.
in battle she would be desolate."            " That may be as it turns out. A little brush
" We should be better weaned than to think with the rogues and a good deal of booty would
of mothers when our beards are grown, young enliven these dull times."
fellow. A man's mother is his country, and he  At this moment Guilford's eyes were gladdened
rightly obeys her when he takes up arms to de- by the sight of a female figure clad like his
fend her against tyranny."                 mother, issuing from the cottage gate. $e knew
" Come to the inn in the morn, where our cap- at a glance that it was not she, and his heart
tam is, and thou shalt put thy name down and bounded with hope and fear in contemplating
be paid two gold nobles, and the horse and ar- the advance of the disguised royalist. The
mor of the man who was shot early to-night by walk was wholly unlike that of his mother, and
one of the smugglers, shall be thine."     by no means as graceful; but he hoped the sol-.
" I will see thy captain, it may be, and think diers, who had never. seen her but once, would
of this. I would rather have a wider field than not mark the difference.
this to act my part in."                     " Good night, gentlemen ; I see my mother
"Ay, that thou oughtest, man. To-morrow has got what she went after, and is returning,"
we are going on a fancy party to ferret out these said Guilford, walking forward to meet the dis-
smugglers or what not that rescued the loyalist guised guest.
last night, and shot that 'lion of the desert,' " You will not forget the gold nobles and to
even the brave trooper 'Despise not Propesy, see the captain at the inn ?" called one of the
wings'                                    soldiers.
"What loyalist ?"                          "No. I hope to meet you there also."
"That is not known for certain. That he was  By this time he met the loyalist, and taking
one is clear, for he refused to drink to Oliver's his arm beneath his own, whispered:
health ; and he fought like a tiger when he was  " Walk more softly, and keep hooded. There
set upon, and ran like a dromedary when he is no danger if you do not speak."
could fight no longer against odds. We would  It was a thrilling moment when Guilford came
have had him had he not been rescued by a par- up again to the two men in order to pass them.
ty of smugglers, as some say they were, who got He was, however, perfectly cool and self-
him 6ff safe. Our captain swears he was the possessed.

" We must stop again, mother, for doubtless  "I need no inducements to move on, my true
these brave soldiers will have to make thee show and faithful deliverer," answered the royalist;
thy face' a second time, to see that no beard " but I am something wearied, having walked for
hath grown on it'within the last five minutes."  many days, and laid abroad of nights, and had
"Nay, young fellow, thou and thy mother may little food."
pass when thou wilt," answered the nearest sol- " I pity thy distresses, sir."
dier, laughingly. "When thou gettest to be a " I hope fortune will one day enable me to
trooper thou wilt then lean what it is to obey reward you," answered the stranger, with a
orders."     .                             grateful tremor in his tones. " But I am solici-
"I blame thee not, sir trooper," answered tous lest harm should happen to thy mother ffr
Guilford, as he walked on slowly, in order to the part she has taken."
keep at feminine moderation the tendency of his  "No ; it was known to no one that you were
companion to make rapid strides of it along.- in the house; and I instructed her not to suffer
At every yard which separated him from the two herself to be seen until after sunrise, lest indeed,
soldiers his heart beat lighter and his breath by chance, the two troopers should question her
drew freer. At length, after walking on'about how she got back unseen, and so place her in a
five minutes, and when he could scarcely dis- dangerous position."
tieguish the forms of the two men from the   "That was judicious and thoughtful in you. I
black posts to which the fishermen secured their will therefore not suffer my fears to be awakened
boats, he said, in a tone of joy:  .       about her. But when I know that upon whom-
"Now, sir cavalier, you may speak. We are soever aids me I am bringing danger, I some-
safe, at least for the present. You can look out times feel like giving myself up to my fate be-
of thy hood."                             fore I will involve any more kind and noble
The cavalier whom dame Graham had so hearts in assisting me to escape. We have here
promptly and skillfully put in her own place, a barrier ! How shall we surmount it ?" he sud-
then threw partly back his hood, and looked denly demanded, upon finding the beach termi-
around him, but not before pressing the young nate.
fisherman's hand in both of his, and saying :  " Here is a boat, my lord," said Guilford, who
"Heaven reward thee ! - Thou hast done this gave the stranger this title of respect, judging
well and faithfully, and with remarkable courage. from his manners, and that he was a partizan of
I was never in more imminent peril of capture; the prince, that he must be noble ; "we will erg-
and yet, under thy managing guidance, with so ter it and row around it."
little reason to fear. What lofty castle is this ?" Upon their reaching the other side Guilford,
he asked, as hit eyes fell upon the elevated tow- with an exclamation of pleasure, pointed sea-
ers and battlements of Castle Vane, beneath the ward.
shadow of which he was walking.              "A boat! 0, that I were so happy as to be
"It is Castle Vane."                     on loard of it, with its head pointed towards
"Well do I know the family. Never was a France !" was the exclamation of the wanderer,
more loyal subject than Lord Vane. But rumor with clasped hands.
says his son is Cromwell's tool."            " I think it is the boat I ordered to come round
" Yes, so I have heard," answered Guilford, and meet us here," answered Guilford. " When
whose glances were continually scanning the it gets a little nearer I can tell."
water, searching for Robin's little bark, which " And you have perfected your plan so far as
yet did not appear in sight.               to provide a boat ! Ah, this is more than I
The cavalier also turned his eyes wistfully hoped. When I saw this cliff, I believed you.
on the sparkling waves, and paused to contem- were seeking some secret cavern wherein to con-
plate them-for a moment.                   ceal me; and my heart was heavy withk the
" 0, road to liberty-yet a more insurmounta- thought of more delay and confinement'and
ble walk than if thou wert built of adamant, anxiety before I should kiss the blessed sands of
high as heaven !" "Drance "
"Do not stop, mylord. We must still hasten  "It is Robin's boat. I know it now by, the
forward; for though the last guard of troopers white tops to its masts."
has been passed in this direction, yet our strata- "And is Robin's boat that you sent for to em-
gem may be detected, and pursuitmade."     bark us in ?"

a'
ti
I
ti

/

9r- 1                          '

NS


j5                   )
j 4  "                                          P
a{                                                             /
54
THE YOUNG FISHFJ MAN.

THE YOUNG]

i
.s
g
. a
S
G
S7.
tE
I
}t T
rf
k
{ i
W
s
t
1
t - i
'r
.aIII

- I fear that it is alure," said Guilford, thought-
fully.
" I think I recognize the voice," said the
stranger. " Hold ! Let me speak."
- Nay, my lord, you may betray yourself. I
will hail them. Who are you, and where do you
wish to go ?"
Land, and we will tell thee," answered an-
other voice.
"I know them !" cried the stranger to Guilford,
in earnest excitement, laying his hand on his
shoulder. "They are two of the prince's friends.
Will you take them ?"
" Willingly. Think you the prince is one of
them ?"
We may hear from him through them, my
young friend, Steer at once to where they stand,
for delay may be fatal to them with , so many
enemies about,"
Guilford at once ran the smack to the little
cove in the land where the two men stood. On
coming near he saw from their torn apparel and
haggard air that they were fugitives, They were
so impatient to quit the land, that the boat had

FISHERMAN.                               55
hardly touched the rock before they both sprang
on board.
" Take us across to France, and we will repay
you well, for we have gold," they said, talking
like %nen who had life at stake.
The stranger, who still wore the female dress,
and who had purposely concealed himself behind
the sail, was now seen by them. They stared at
him, and then took their seats, as if too weary to
stand. They then looked earnestly at Robin
and Guilford.
" You are fishermen, then ?" said the eldest of
the two, inquiringly.
"Yes, sir."
"Will you take us over to Normandy ?"
'It is a dangerous trip, sirs, but as Iam going
over, you shall have passage."
" How fortunate. We will give you gold,"
" I am well paid, gentlemen."
" but will you take this woman over ?"
" Yes," answered Guilford ,and he would have
added, "slhe is afugitive disguised also," but fbr
a pressure upon the arm by the stranger, as a
hint fromhim to keep his secret.

"Yes, my lord. Robin is a youth, and sup-, " I pray that thy words may come true. And if
ports himself by fishing. He is my truest friend, the prince come to his own, thou shalt not be
and can be trusted."                       forgotten. He who has served one of his friends
" I know it, if he is thy friend. It seems a serves him. I will take care that thy good ser-
brave, strong boat, with sails."           vice to me this night shall not be forgotten.-
"It has crossed the channel in the wildest Would that England had ten thousand young
weather, my lord."                         men with hearts and hands as loyal as thine."
" Then my hour of safety seems to have come  At this crisis the little bark drew so close that
at last. This little skiff, which holds but two, Guilford recognized Robin, who, shipping his
and scarce floats for leaking," he added, pointing oars, steered the boat wtth what impetus his
t the small boat in which they had paddled rowing had given it, directly alongside the rocks.
round the rock ; " this I would have ventured in, " Thou hast well done, Robin, and in good
rather than not have attempted it. To die ex- time ; for I see the dawn is breaking. Now, my
erting one's self for liberty, is better than to live lord, step into the boat, and the next land thy
as I have lived the past fifty days. 0, young foot touches shall be that of France."
man, you know little of the sufferings I have en-  " Amen, my friend," answered the noble, as
dured. But the sight of this bounding bark he leaped into the boat and stood in the stern,-
makes me forget all !"                     "Farewell, poor England ! One of these days
" I trust, my lord, that before noon you will be thou wilt take to thy bosom gladly the children
safe where you wish to be."                that thou now drivest from thee I"
"Thanks, thanks, my friend. I pray that if  Guilford saw that tears came into his eyes, and
this blessing be granted me, it be given soon to this emotion endeared him still more to him;
the friends and wanderers I leave still behind."  for he saw that he possessed all the sensibilities
" Thou meanest the prince, and the four or that became a man. He now assisted Robin in
five nobles who hold to him."              hoisting the sails, for there was a six knot
" They did hold to him till they were com- breeze from the northwest, and taking the helm,
pelled, for his safety, to leave him, and each seek while Robin was entrusted with the charge of
a different route to the coast."           trimming the canvass, he steered away from the
"If, after I safely place thee in France, I can castle rock and lay his course at first south by
return unsuspected, my lord, I will do all in my west, in order to keep from being seen from the
power to get the rest over. In particular would village when they should clear the rock.
I be happy to be the instrument of saving the  When they had got out about fifty yards, and
prince."                                   were sailing along smoothly, the nobleman was
"And wherefore in particular, my young seen by Guilford to sink upon his knees and re-
friend ?" asked, the noble, who was seated on a main some minutes in prayer. He then rose,
rock, watching the advancing fishing boat.  and embracing his deliverer, he called Robin and
"Frankly, my lord, I will tell thee. Thou said:
didst overhear my conversation with my mother,  "Let me take thee by the hand. I owe thee
and need not be told that I love a high-born much also, and must owe thee more before I
maiden-even the daughter of the lord of this reach France. I am told thou art the friend of
castle."                                   this brave young man."
" And I would swear thou art worthy ofher." " I love Guilford as a brother," answered Rob-
" Iam too proud to offer her a fisherman for in, with honest warmth.
a husband. If I could aid the prince, perhaps he  Suddenly a voice called to them from the
would take me into his service."           shore-an eager yet suppressed voice, its tones
"But he is poor, and has nor men nor arms, being doubtful and yet thrilling, as if fear and
coffers nor coin, young man."              hope impelled the speaker.
' He will one day, I am"confident, sit on the "The boat! Art thou a fisherman ?"
throne of his martyred father. He is too deeply " Yes," answered Guilford, as he discerned the
seated in the hearts of the English people to re. figures of two men in the mouth of a sort of
main long out of the seat of the kingdom."  gorge that was at the westward of the castle
' By the rood! thou speakest like a prophet 1" rock,
exclaimed the noble, starting to his feet, andf  "Come to the shore and take us on board,and
gaming with admiration upon the your  man.-  we will pay thee well."

p.

O
"

i
i
i

JL


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.               57

CHAPTER XVI.
WHO THE FUGITIVE WAS.
Wa now see our youthful 'hero, Guilford,   "Hast thou heard of any royalist escaping in a
once more setting sail for the French side of the boat within -a day or two ?" asked the younger
channel, with three royalists.' It has been an cavalier, who was a fair young man, with a blue
eventful twenty-four hours to him, and has done eye and a Scottish physiognomy.
more to develop his true character than all the  " There was a brave man escaped yesterday
previous events of his life. All at once he felt from the village after great peril. It was at sun-
that he had merged from the obscure and hum- set orlittle after."
ble village fisher, to be a person of no little con-  "Ah, it must have been the prince," exclaimed
sideration, if he was to be judged by the part he the elder; "for he must have reached the coast
had played.. But he was not elated. He secretly about that time."
hoped that this turn in the tide of his affairs was  "No, it was the Earl Villiers, whom they call
to lead him on to fortune.                 Red Hand," answered Guilford.
When the smack, which Robin had named the  "The Earl Villiers !" exclaimed the strange-,
" Pretty Anne," had got out a mile, the day had in a tone that, coming from the woman's hood,
begun to brighten up so clearly in the east that made the two cavaliers start with surprise, and
the moonlight paled before it. Soon the light of stare with doubt both at Guilford and his dis-
the broad morning filled the air, and when they guised passenger.
were a league from the land the sun rose in daz- ." We are betrayed !" cried the young Scot,
zding splendor out of the waters. Cheerfulness witha flashing eye, as he drew a long,.glittering
sat upon the haggard faces of the two fugitives as knife.
they saw receding the shores of England, and the  " There is no treason here," said Guilford..--
distinct blue line of France grow more distinct.  " This person is also a fugitive in disguise,whom I
"Young man," said one of them, whose beard was taking over when youhailed me. If he wish-
and locks were mingled with gray. "you will be es to conceal himselffrom you, I cannot prevent
remembered by us to the latest hour of our lives. it. But I trust you are known to each other."
We must take your names, that our friends may  " There needs no. more disguise or conceal-
know them, and love the two fisher's lads who aid- ment, my friends all," exclaimed the stranger,
ed us to escape from death to safety."     throwingback his hood, and extending ahand to
"Iknew,mylord," said Guilford, " that fugitive each of - the fugitives. Algernon, welcome-!
friends of the prince were expected on the coast, Catesby, Iembrace you again !"
andknew you to be of them."                  "My prince !" cried the elderly noble, kneeling
." Yes, doubtless, for we carry our fortunes in and kissing the hand extended to him, while
our rags and visages. But it is surprising and Catesby pressed his knees and bathed his hands
providentialthat we should' have found a boat so with tears ofjoy.-
soon, and one that would receive us. 0, that the.  "Heaven be praised ! Once more, we meet,
prince could be as fortunate."             andin safety !"

"I would have made myself kndwn to you, my
trusty friends, but I wished to defer it until land-
ing, that I might then take my young friend by
surprise, and let him know that he had indeed
savedPrince Charles! This is a happy meeting
for us after all our sufferings together."
"Too much joy ! too much joy I That we
should find thee in the very boat in which we have
taken shelter. This day Cromwell's hatred has
foreverlost its victim."
Guilford had witnessed this revelation of the
prince to his partners in danger and flight with
amazement. He stood beholding him without
power to utter a word. A half formed idea that
all his hopes were now in the budding, and that
Lady Kate would yet be his, dancedbewilderingly
through his mind. Robin stood with open mouth,
in wonder and delight.
"Nay, my friends," said Prince Charles, "you
must not be shut out from being partakers of all
this joy. You have, you find, had your wish
gratified, and have' the prince' in your boat."
"And I will save thee or die, my prince !" ex-
olaimed Guilford, kneeling and kissing his hand.
"This is the happiest and proudest moment of my
life."
Robin also came forward and saluted the ex-
cited monarch, and all was joy and intense excite-
ment.
While the little vessel with its precious freight
was dancing on its way, Guilford directed Robin
to bring up the provisions from the cuddie, and
the prince and his two lords made a royal feast of
i% with such appetites as long fasting invariably
lends to both king and peasant.
The sun was an hour high when they had all
got through their morning's repast, and then
Guilford urged the prince to take some repose in
one of the, berths in the small cabin.
"This is well proposed, my young friend," he
said; " for I have had little sleep for the week
Past."
Leaving the helm in charge of Robin, Guil-
ford went into the cuddie and arranged as well
as. he could the cot of dried sea-weed for the
prince, and when he would have apologized for
its roughness, the latter said, cheerfully:
"9Do not say one word, my dear Guilford, for
I have learned to sleep as hard as the poorest of
my subjects. I am used to rough fare and rough
lodgings. But keep good watch, and do not let
..ny large vessel come too near us. Call me if
say war-Sbip is seen in any quarter."
Gui ford having seen Prince Charles lie down

to rest, returned to the deck. The faces of the
two exiles beanied upon him with grateful
smiles as he re-appeared.
" You are the happiest and most to be envied
Englishman that this day lives, yoang man,"
said Lord Algernon, smiling ; "for you have
under your charge the prince on whose safety
depends the fate of England."
" I am happier than I can express," answered
Guilford, resuming the helm, while he gave an
order to Robin to trim the sheets. " As we are
now full a third of the way across the' channel,
my lords," he added, " will you say what part
of the French coast the prince would like to be
landed upon ?"
" To the east of Cape de la Hague, and as
near the Cherbourg landing as may be," an-
swered the Scottish lord. " We have friends
there in waiting for many weeks."
"The wind is not exactly fair for making
Cherbourg," answered Guilford, looking at the
sails and then at the sky ; " but by tacking and
running west by north four or five miles, we can
then go about'and make it towards night."
" Is there no danger that we shall be interfered
with by the channel ships of war that are hover-
ing on the coast to watch. against the prince's
escape ?" asked the gray-bearded earl, with some
solicitude, as he cast his eyes about him and
saw four or five sail of vessels at various dis-
tances, some of them between them and the dis-
tant line of the coast of France, and one directly
astern, as if in chase.
" Are there ships cruising on the watch? my
lords ?" asked Guilford, changing color. "I
did not imagine danger save from the coast guard
on shore."
" There is great danger yet," answered both
noblemen. "An crder has been sent to all the
captains of the vessels of war to be vigilant in
bringing to and examining every boat that
crosses the channel."
" I did not know of this," answered Guilford.
He then stood up in the stern of the fishing
vessel, which being but five tons burthen, did not
elevate him but three or four feet above the level
of the sea, and with a keen, nautical eye scanned
carefully the, encircling horizon, commencing
F north and returning to the same point.
" What do you make out these vessels to be ?"
asked Lord Algernon Dudley, the old noble,
f trusting to the skill of the young saildr in mat-
ters of which he himself had little experience.
" The vessel astern, my lords, is a ship, that

I


58                THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

has just come out of Portsmouth. I saw her an
hour ago, between the Isle of Wight and the
main, standing down. She is a Norwegian tra-
der by the shortness of her yards and square
make of her bows."
"You observe closely," said the young Scot-
tish lord.
" Yes ; We fishermen, passing our lives on the
channel, and accustomed to the sight of ves-
sels of all nations, soon discern the difference
between thdse of one country and another, and
are able to tell them a long ways off."
"Yes, I can understand it,"' said Lord-Cates-
by ; "for in the highlands the shepherds on the
hills oan often tell men of different clans at a
distance long before they can distinguish the
plaid of their tartans. What vessel is that to
the west ? It looks large, like an armed ship."
"It is a ship of war of large size," answered
Guilibrd; "but she is standing northward, and
is bound into Portsmouth. She will hardly
trouble ts."

" Then this vessel at the east, which seems to
be standing directly down to us ?"
" That I am more doubtful about. She is too
far off to. be well 'made out, and as her masts
range in line, I can't'tell whether she is a ship
or brig. But from the squareness of her yards
and the way she settles in the water, I am afraid
she is an armed cruiser."
At these words the two nobles looked'verv
naturally anxious, and watched her with close
attention. There were two other vessels visible
in the far south-western board, but at too remote
a distance to be made anything of, save that
Guilford was positive +hey were large, three
masted vessels.
The wind was blowing a five knot breeze,
from W. S. W., and the little vessel, kept close-
hauled, went steadily on her way, steering as
near as possible for the Cape of the Hague, now
about forty miles distant, in a south by west di-
rection.

ii      w.
4 x  # y42r
rf
av1Yt+
at
ti5
v.fR
,Y f1l
e     'yr'
Ly

LEAVING the little fishing smack, Which held
the destinies of England, to dance along over
the waves of the channel on its way to the coast
of Normandy, we will follow the adventures of
another one of the characters of our story.
When Red Hand the earl had regained his-
own ship, and, after the severe execution of the
sentence upon Lord Rudolph, had dismissed the
yacht, he gave orders to his lieutenant in com-
mand to steer westward until sunrise, and then
call him.
" I have not had one hour's sleep since I left
London," he added to the officer, "and I must
have a little rest."
le then went to his state-room, where he found
Edward, the youthful and handsome officer al-
ready introduced to the reader, engaged in copy-
ing papers. Upon the entrance of the earl, the
youth looked up and fixed upon the earl his
large dark eye, which had as much light in it as
a woman's, and said :
" My lord, I know not how to contain my joy
at your sai return once more tothe ship, know-,
ing, as I alone did, the perilous errand on which
yon  went-"
"I had a narrow cape of it more than once,
EdwM'd," answered the Wr, throwing himself
Sed a cushioned ettee.
" Autt what sccesa, My lord l" asked the
-   jA4 in a tone that slightly hesitated, as if he
fNtd h feature too far to make so open an
5tkreuil's head i' Still on his shoulder,
*dg he is free to ride oa England's fleck till a
mote lucky day for us. Would you like to hear
the particulars '"

" Yes, my lord ; I will first copy these tWo re-
mainitig lines of the letter you have written to
the Duke of Orleans, to be loft at Cherbourg."
The youthful secretary then busied himself a
minute till he had completed the task allotted to
him, and then placing his pen by his side on the
polished Bragiban table, placed himself in an
attitude of listening. This young man, whose
beauty; as we have said, was almost feminine,
was about twenty years of age, slight in figure,
but tall, and gracefully made. A brown mous-
tache was just beginning to darken his well cut
upper lip, and his rich and shining brown locks
curled short about his circular and snow-white
neck. His brows were also brown or hazel col-
ored, like his hair, and exquisitely arched over a
pair of large, well expanded eyes of the clearest
gray. His nose was Persian, straight, and with
thin nostrils-always marks of high birth.-
When he spoke, rows of even teeth, as dewy and
translucent as pearls, were visible. His hands
were, as symmetrical as nature could have
moula d them, and his whole air and tone were
striking and distinguished. There was an ex-
pression of sadness upon his face that seemed to
be abiding, and to derive itself from a source
deeply hidden in the heart. With all his beauty,
there was a total absence of consciousness of it,
and with all his womanly elegance there was no
tack of the proud and manly bearing of his ex.
Between him and the earl there appeared to 'u-
l t a friendship equal and confidential, alnd
which seemed to take no daunt of the diffetase
in their years. The attire of the young secretary
was a suit of black vbvet, with here and there
plain gold button, and a silver hilted sword.

CHAPTER XVI1.
A DEsERATU STRATAGEM FOILED.


60                 THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

worn in a beautifully polished Arabian belt at justice for the commonwealth, it being his inten-
his side.                                tion to adopt the Justinian code, if possible, over
" The night on which I landed at Hastings," the common law. We resolved that we would
said Red Hand, "twenty days ago to-day, I have everything ready to lay hands upon him
found the three men ready with horses to take when he should return from one of these excur-
me to London. I was nearly two days reaching sions, which we ascertained would be towards
the city, not wishing to ride too fast, lest I twilight.
should draw attention. I wore my disguise as a  I had already obtained a swift barge with two
Puritan conventicle preacher, and had much masts and eight oars, and hadylaced over her a
honor paid me at several times, by Cromwell's deck that would conceal twelve men. This
people. At length, safe in London. I put up at barge we had placed under a warehouse that
the house in the Strand where Lord Layton and belonged to a-trusty loyalist. The eight oars
Germain were lodged. They received me men were selected by me from a score of the
warmly, and asked where I had landed and young nobles who are living in London in dis-
where left my ship. I told them tha4 I had left guise and poverty, ready to enter upon any en-
my vessel off Hastings, but that, by my orders, terprise that may bring back the king, by de-
she was to run to the coast of France and hover stroying the usurper. The twelve men con-
about Germany until the twentieth, when she cealed in the deck were all born lords and bar-
was to stand over the Sussex side and wait my ons, half Scotch end half English."
orders, or take me on board, as you have done  " Each equally anxious to share the peril and
this night."                             the glory !"
" You have read the report of our cruise, my " Yes. At_ length the afternoon, four days
lord, during your three weeks' absence ?" ob- ago, arrived. One by one, by different routes,
served the young lieutenant.             the lords and gentlemen reached the rendezvous,
" Yes, I have looked it over, and find you have entered the boat and concealed themselves, with
had too many handsome fights with Cromwell's arms in their hands, under the deck. I was the
vessels ; but one of these I heard of before I left last person there, and went accompanied by the.
London, and I assure you it made me proud of French lieutenant, whose ship was waiting off
my gallant friends on board, and my noble ves- the mouth of the Thames to receive us., At
sel. One would have thought, by the way the four o'clock I saw the protector embark in his
Londoners talked about your sinking the par- state barge, rowed by twelve men. _He sat in
liament ship Nestor, that I had been a Moorish the stern, surrounded by six or seven of his court,
buccaneer'and lived by pirating on the world.- for he holds court and carries state like a crowned
But Cromwell would have all true loyalists king. In the bow were eight soldiers of his body
branded as pirates and robbers. There are no guard, armed with harquebusses. At abouthalf
honest men in England now-a-days, but those an hour before sundown I sawthis barge half a
who have cropped crowns and pray by the mile off, descending the river. It was returning
league. But to my story. After I had been a earlier than we expected, but on consulting with
week in London we had all our plans laid. Un- the lords, we decided to attack it in open sun-
der the disguise of a coal heaver, I had more shine, and trust to the fleetness of our barge to
than once stood within ten feet of CromN ell, as escape down the river with our prize."
he passed through the palace yard, where I was  "It was a very bold enterprise, my lord."
heaving coal, having managed to get employed  " One must do a bold thing who would at-
there for this purpose. Under the disguise of a tempt to make Cromwell prisoner. .Standing
baker I entered the palace, and, as a postman, upon the pier, I watched the descending barge
I placed letters iin his very hand. All these until it had come nearly opposite our lurking
opportunities I sought to see him and learn his place, when, lowering myself into my boat, I
habits and hours, that we might know what day said:
and hour to fix upon our plan for carrying hm  "'My friends,. now is our time ! Oars, all
off. At length I discovered that every Tuesday give way and launch out into the river.'  -
and Saturday it-was his custom to embark on " The next moment we shot out front beneath
the-Thames' to sail up to-- paee, there to the arch of the old pier, and I steered wits fbam- .
be present at a council which he had convoked ing bow 'and leaping oars straight for the state
for the purpose of settling upon. a new code of galley. The helmsman of it, seeing us about to

fress his bows, hailed us and ordered me to back plot fairly hatched .out before I left the inn, I
the oars ! But not heeding him, I directed my took my way across the country on foot, for I
boat's bows obliquely, so as to strike thd b rge had learned from our host that our daring, open
about half way between her beam and 'cutwater. attack upon Cromwell had filled all London
The shock, as I ground along her sides, sowing with amazement, and that the protector 'had
down the whole bank of oars, was so greit as to given strict orders to guard all the-roads, and
stave in the bow of the galley and break the look out especially for the outlaw Red Hand,
forward knees of-my own boat.              the pirate earl."
"' To arms and board !'. I shouted, in a voice " He knew you then, my llralp"
of thunder.   '                              " He had reason to know m0 well. Besides.
"The next moment my deck was alive with I shouted my war cry,'A Villiers! KVilliersi!'
armed men, who leaped into the galley and as we charged him on his barge. I had, there-
swept her forecastle. Sword in hand; I pressed fore, to be very cantions in crossing from Lon-
at, with lords McDonald and McFergus, to don to the coast, and travelled chiefly in the
where Cromwell stood, calling upon his soldiers night; and when by day walked, I kept on the
to rally and fire upon us. His own sword was hills far away frora the reads. At length, last
ii his hand, and as I approached, he threw him- night I reached the little fishing port of Brithels-
self into an attitude of a lion at bay.    mane, and famished' and thirsty, and deeming
"'1You are my prisoner, Oliver Cromwell!' myself out ofreach of all danr;,x in that obscure
said I, leaping towards him. 'Give up your place, I entered the inn to Yo'resh myself  But
sword !'                                   as I have told you, a swmz m of Cromwell's lo-
° "'He'who would have my sword must take custs soos came in, and I had to make my ee-
it ' he answered, with a firmness that made me cape the best way I co-ild. To young Guilford
respect the man's bravery.                 Graham I owe mylife and presentsecurity, and
"I did not wait to be a second time invited, if it is ever in my power to serve him, mayI lose
but crossing blades with him, was on the eve of my other hand if I forget to do it."
getting the mastery, for I once had his sword en-  " What an unfortunate result, my lord, of your
tangled in thefolds of my coat, when his friends, swell-planned scheme to take the usurper," said
recovering from their panic, fought in his de- Edward Percy.. " If you had succeeded, Prince

fence like good fellows, and his harquebusses did
such good service, that we were finally compelled
to retreat to our own boat, half of us wounded,
and abandon the enterprise upon which so much
tiitie and talent had been expended I should
haverallied my party and renewed the attack,
but for the sight of three barges of troops which
I saw pulling to the protector's aid front the
shore. So we got off and made the best of our
way down the river, chased by two of the barges.
We should inevitably have been taken, if'night
soon coming on, had not befriended us. Under
cover of it, we mingled among the numerous
boats plying up and down the ri-verand landing
on the south side of the Thames, about four
miles.below London, we found our way to an
inn, kept by an old king's man, who gave us
cheer'and lodging, and bound up the wounds- of
those who had been hurt. Here I remained un.
til the .next night, when, hearing that Prince
Charles had certainly been seed inrmid England,
making his way in disguise toWards they Sussex
ooast, I resolved to regain my vessel and' watch
to give him succor. Leaving my-poor lords dis-
comfited but not in despair, and with a second

Charles, instead of flying= from England, would
have entered London in triumph."
"Y es; bat we will bide ou- tite. The young
king will yet sit in his father's throne. Of this
I feel as sure as if it had been made known to
me by a revelation from heaven."
"My lord, I feel so. There seems to be a
seventh sense in us which scholars do not take
note of in their philosophies. It is that sense of
being assured that a certain thing yet in future
will come to pass."
" I understand you. It is so."
"When the noble marquis, my father, was led
to the scaffold, I had a feeling that he"-wonld
not be executed then; and after he was remand-
ed to prison and had hiu second trial, I then felt
all the dread certainty that he would die. The-
result verified my sensations."
n The same feeling which you describe I have
experienced. Even now I:can say with - a cer-
tainty as positive' as if I were inspired, that
Prince Charles will not fall into tfs hand "of
his foes, but ere long reach Prance -9safetyf-
Nay, I have a presentiment that is will not be
long ere you and I:shall behold him in security."

THE YOUNG, FISHERMAN -            61

, 


THiE YOUNG FLSIERMAN.

" I earnestly pray, my lord, that your wishes of this young man in some honorable and dar-
may be fully realized."                    ing exploit. He has it in him, and he has a
" You mean that my eighth sense may not prize to win that will nerve his arm and carry'
deceive me," responded, the earl, laughing. "But him to his object through every danger."
my dear Edward, I have a rare romance to tell  " I like him well, my lord ! He is certainly
thee."                                     deserving of her if she loves him."
"Ah. my lord !"                             I knew you would like him,-and therefore 1
" Yes. This young Guilford Graham, with have told you this. ; It is my intentionto seek
his handsome face and fine eyes, has captivated him out at an early.day, as soon-as the prince
no less a personage than the fair Lady Catharine shall have got safely to France, and then give
Vane."-                                    him employment in charge of the vessel and ex-,
" Impossible, my lord."                  pedition which is planned for another attempt to
"Nothing more true, Edward. And as to its get possession of the person of Cromwell."
being impossible, there is nothing more possible,  "I was in hopes, my lord, that in this new ex-
when two young hearts: come together and are pedition I should not be overlooked."
found to be of kindred mould. How he man-    " I did promise to give . you some opportunity*
aged first to win her heart, is to me a mystery ; of distinguishing yourself, Edward. But you
but as he lives at the foot of Castle ,vane, I are too useful to me. I would have you near
doubt not they have been thrown together in me; and besides, I wish from Cherbourg to send
some way very naturally, and what with his you with a message to St. Lo to my fair daugh-
reverence for her rank and respectful homage, ter."
and her admiration of his person, and perhaps  Herethe young secretary blushed and looked
gratitude for rustic civilities, they got to losing pleased
their hearts to each other., But be that as it  " Besides, wilt thou not, for love's sake, give
may, they are lovers, and she loves quite as elh- my young friend Guilford a chance of winning
thusiastically as he does."                a name that will give him the prince's favor,
"I like the young man--I am grateful to him and thus open a way to his advancement in the
-I respect hiscourage--but for him to aspire world ?" {
to-"              ," gainsay it nofurther, my good lord," an-
" Tut, tut, my dear Edward ! The days of swered Edward, with a; cheerful smile.
chivalry are filled with such real romances of  Hast thou finished  those despatches for
life., A humble lover and high-born maiden are Paris ?".
the then and burden of half the ballads."  "Yes, my lord."
"That is true. But-"                       " Seal them and address them: But first let
I have however, something to add that will me see the letter to the French king; for i  is
make you like the -young man's honor. It important that there be no error in it."
would seem he has lately awakened to the prac-  The earl took the paper and began reading in
tical view of his romantic attachment, and last a low, 'audible tone, as follows:
night he was on his way.to see the lady to re-  "Your most christian majesty will be pleased
lease her from all love vows, and tell her that to learn that our august Prince Charles, sins.
he felt that they could never be united, holding the disastrous defeat of his forces near Worces-
such opposite positions in society. It was on ter, forty days ago, hashitherto eluded the effosm
this errand he saw me beset, and gave me such of Cromwell to take his person capture. I have
good aid., And, oddly enough, on board my certain information to convey to your a1u ty°
Ai he fnds the Lady Catharine. They had that he is hovering near.the English south cesa,
asn interview, which I chanced to overhear, ,and will embrace the first safe opportunity *br
uieh resulted in a refusal onher part to listen, embarking across the channel to find that
Mle a toble girl as she is, to any such self, in your dominions which your majeaty, tls
sni fice of his happiness on his part, and to her. me, has socourteously offered to him. It sa to
o'utingle wait for him until he shall achieve be ardently hoped tat the prince will teact I
a ime and fame that will give him some pro- French coast ere many days."
tensions toJizs for her hand."               The earlcpntiumed to read-on for a few h21is
" And this compact stands ?"            further, but in a less audible - manner, and then
" Yes. And be assuredthat weshallyet hear returning the letter to the secretary,.he said:

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

"It is correctly copied and fairly writ. Seal."
You have forgotten to sign it, my lord."
" True."
The Earl Villiers then took a pen in his left
hand and made a capital V, after which he
placed a seal that he took from his sword hilt,
upon some wax that Edward had previously
placed for the reception of it. It was a shield,
on which was a. three-masted ship, and for a
crest was a hand severed at the wrist.
"I wear this seal and badge till Cromwell
loses his usurped throne, and then I resume my
arms. I will yet make him wince the more, as
men say he does, at hearing of Red Hand, his
deadly foe ! Now I would have thee pen a let-
ter to my fair daughter, at the convent St. Lo.
It is four weeks since she wrote me the sweet
missile which pleased me so, and I have deigned
it no reply. Come, sir, thou art my right hand;
and I would have thee write to a lady as I would
have done in my younger days. Let the script
be smaller than that in which thou hast writ to
the French king, and by no means so large as
that wherewith thou writest to our English bar-
ons. . A handwriting for a lady's eye, let me
teach thee, young cavalier, should be graceful in
shape, neat in all its parts, of a cunning and
pleasing'fashion, and without mar or blot.- I
like well the Italian script for this business. Dost
thou know it ?"
" Yes, my lord ; I have cultivated all styles
of Spain, of France of Italy, and of Germany."
" Let us have that of Italy."
" I am ready, my lord."
" Then say these words, yrith thy own finish ;
for, by the rood! I am better skilled in ropes-
and ships than in the art of penmanship. Now
to thy task:.
" FAIR DAUGHTER JENNY :
'Thy sweet billet came duly into my hand,
and was read with pride and satisfaction. It
pleases me that thou art so happily content with
thy present abode, and that the abbess ,doth her
best to give tl*ee such entertainment as becometh
thy goodness and my daughter. Thou wilt par-
don this long delay between my answer and thy
lister; but this is a busy season since the mishap
to the prince's army, and I am compelled to
keep astir, and mostly on the sea, for I am hoping
*9 give the prince the opportunity of getting off
from the edast in my ship, which wouldbe the
groudesI event of thy father's life to aid his
prince in-escaping fromhisenemies. Thou hast
heard how he hath been hunted in Scotland

I

but getting into England, he is now wandering
near the coast, and must soon either fall into the
hands of his enemies, or get safely over to
France. If he reach Paris, I shall not fail to go
there to give him my homage, in which case I
will pass St. Lo and take thee with me ; for thy
education is by this time well on to its close ;
and what thou lackest in thy head, thy face's
beauty will make up, Edward Percy telleth me
that thou bast grown wonderfully fair. He will
be the bearer of this, and I would fain commend
him (here there lurked a smiling expression in
the coiner of the earl's eye) to thy courtesy and
attention, for lie bath my confidence and love.
Heaven bless thee, fair daughter Jenny, and
soon place thee in the arms of thy loving father,
AnrTnU, EARL OF VILLIERS."'
This letter having been duly penned by the
youthful secretary, Red Hand settled himself
upon his couch and gave himself up to the pro-
posed sleep which he so much needed, while Ed-
ward continued at the escritoire writing and
sealing pacquets addressed to various exiled
noblemen in France.
At length the day broke, and the earl, rising,
went to the deck. His keen eye surveyed the
horizon. Three or four vessels were-in sight,
one of which, far to the eastward, was made out
to be a brig-of-war, but as she showed no colors,
her nature could not be made out; though as she
was near the French coast, she was supposed to
be a vessel of that nation. Some dozen fishing
vessels were also seen running about. Upon all
three Red Hand directed the long, heavy tele-
scope of that day, and then, having swept the
French coast near which he was'sailing, he sud-
denly gave orders to put about; for up to that
time, since Guilferd had left her in the yacht
during the preceding night, she had been steering
nearly west. The island of Alderney lay about
two leagues distant abeam, when they tacked
ship-
"Lay her coarse E. N. East," said Red Hand.
" We will run up the channel and keep crtising
between Normandy.and Sussex, for we may l e
so fortunate as to fall in with some of the fte$-
tives crossing whp will give us news.of the prtta.
Keep a close watch on all the fishing boats, pd
run close to each of them, so that if any of
prince's party be in them, we may take them p1
board."
The ship now stretched eastwardcinder all as r
canvass, for the breeze was light from the sogtk
and south by west, and every sail had to W set


64                          THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.
to get six knot an hour out of her. The men, Cromwell's ships. In this manner, closely ex-
after they had breakfasted, were called to quar- amining every craft, the royal cruiser of the
ters and trained to the guns, to keep them  in channel kept on her course, the sight of her
constant practice; for they were surrounded by causing many an English trading vessel to up
hostile vessels, and might at any hour find them- helm and fly for shelter towards the nearest
selves engaged in mortal conflict with some of land on the British side.

CHAPTER XVIII.
AN EXCITING SCENE.

IT was about three o'clock in the afternoon,
when the ship commanded by Red Hand came
nearly opposite Cape La Hague, the land lying
about five miles from her to the south, on the
starboard beam. The wind had been light and
baffling all day, and she had made but little
progress since the morning, not having placed
more than fifteen miles between her and. the
place where, at sunrise, she had put about to
steer eastward up the channel.
The vessels which had been visible from her
deck in the morning had now all disappeared in
their several directions, but others were in sight.
The brig-of-war, which they had supposed to be
a French vessel, had suffered the " Prince
Charles " to come near enough for her to make
out her character, when, without waiting for a
more intimate acquaintance, and trusting to her
heels, she hoisted the British flag, and ran for
Portsmouth. Several fishing vessels, but chiefly
Norman, had been brought to in the course of
the fifteen miles run, but there was no one on
board save the ordinary crews. Nor from two
English fishing smacks which Red Hand brought
to, could he learn anything of any fugitives hav-
ing been seen on the coast, or having crossed to
-France.
About half past three in the afternoon, as the
earl was about to give orders to alter the course
of his ship and run into Cherbourg, the lookout
aloft called lustily from his perch:
"Sail hol"
" here away?" demanded the officer of the
deck, making use of the same nautical phrase-
ology, which, for more than two hundred years,
has bein customary in the English navy

" Three points abaft the larboard beam."
The earl glanced over the quarter, and saw a
vessel, at some distance yet, but the appearance
of which caused him to call quickly for his tele-
scope. When it was handed to him, he rested it
upon a rattling of the mizzen rigging and lev-
eied it upon the stranger. There were a dozen
other vessels in sight in various directions, but
they were all made out to be either traders or
coasters and fishermen, save one, which was to
the north and east, whioh could not be made out,
being too remote, but which seemed to be coming
down hand over hand, bringing a fine topsail
breeze along with her.
" What do you make her out, my lord ?" aske
Edward, who stood near the earl, assisting i:
one arm in keeping the glass steady.
" A confounded large ship, and with iron
teeth enough to eat two such mouthfuls as we
are."
" A ship of the largest class, my lord ?"
" Yes, and one of Ci'omwell's bull-dogs. I
know her well, by her stump topmasts. It is
the Leviathan, and is twice our metal. She has
a breeze with her, too, and seems to he st-riag
dead for us."
" You may be sure, my lord, she knows who
we are."
" Without doubt. We have boarded craft
enough since morning to report us in that
quarter."
"My lord," said the quartermaster, wl o had
been for some minutes inspecting the ship in the
northern board."
" Well, Claypole, what now
"The chap there .a-weathe  coming down

I

;rS
fi
-T
,7'
ty
?
'YT
.
l
" n
:3rd
s'
y
i ..
: J ;{
i. Y4.
,j'{ .
tt'
(Y.
. %:1;1
L, r.
:y:
?rv
s?  ^.
t.
S.::
:+ r  .'
1 .,' 'L's-f
y :
;fir,
,  ..
_; t.
"w
i _
;
{ ,
'ti
#k
1"-
,  !
,t
] . . ,
_ ;
':
t
z
-: n1,
.'
% ,_:
x ,_
}i n;
y _.
{t.
::'f
# E':
f.i;
#'
-. . ::{
,i
:i
.7
' j
-
_:".'
'i

41

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

with a bone in his teeth. He has ,an ugly look Charles lay directly in the track to the port,
about the muzzle."                        this vessel was very clearly the object at which
"If he comes too near, we will spoil his muz- they were aiming. There were some half a
zie for him, if that is the case," said the earl, score of small craft in sight, and far distant two
cheerfully ; for he was one of those chivalrous or three English fishing bouts.
natures that take delight in the accumulation  The men at length had their supper, and the
of dangers. "Theefellow off the quarter has officers also, so that the after cabins, with the
also a breeze,, while we lay as quiet here as if bulkheads removed, were soon turned into open
we were at our anchors. Have supper for the decks with men at the guns. At length, about
men early, and then have all hands to quarters," four o'clock, the Leviathan came so near as to
he called out. "We shall hardly get away show her ports, to the naked eyes of the men on
from these two inquisitive gentlemen who are the channel cruiser; but the wind had got ahead
coming down this way to look at us, without a of her, and Red Hand was able to manage his
brush."vessel under motion with a five knot breeze.
At hearing this, the whole quarter deck was The ship which was coming from the coast of
in excitement. The officers smiled and ex- England, was now near enough for her guns to
changed congratulations with each other at the be counted; but instead of keeping on for the
prospect of a battle, while the rumor flying for- Prince Charles, she suddenly hauled her wind
ward among the men, infused a spirit of bel- and stood six or seven points eastward.
ligerancy into their bosoms that completely  " That is a new manouvre," exclaimed Red
changed the whole aspect of things. One would Hand, as he saw it ; and catching up his glass,
have thought that the happiest intelligence had he directed it towards her. " She is in chase of
reached them, instead of the report that two a fishing smack !" he cried. " I see the smack
large, armed foes were coming down upon them, about two miles ahead of her to the south, and
probably to attack them, and possibly destroy evidently flying from her. They are wetting her
them and their vessel. But if - the faces of the sails and using their oars. There must be some-
offlicers and men brightened, the countenance of thing more than usual in the wind, for a frigate
their chief, Red Hand, shone with courage and to turn out of her course to chase a fishing ves-
-warlike anticipation. Already, in numerous in- sel1 Crowd every stitch of canvass upon the
stances, had he met the ships of the usurper and ship, sir !" he ordered, in tones of unusual anima-
conquered them, though inferior in strength -to tion.
the*. And so frequent, bold andsuccessful had  " The smack is making for the French coast
been his assaults upon ships, castles, and even as fast as she can make speed," said the quarter-
towns on the coast, that in proportion as people master, with his eye to his glass.
held his name in awe, his own confidence in his  The whole attention of every one on board
invincibility had increased.               the cruiser was now directed to the frigate and
Cape de la Hague, opposite which the ship of the fugitive fishing smack. If there had been
the earl lay, scarcely in motion for the want of any doubt in the minds of any one as to the ob-
wind, has two horns, and in the bay between ject which had turned the English vessel from
them lies the picturesque town of Cherbourg. her course, it was now removed by her firing at
This port was in full sight, not more than two long shot at the escaping little, craft.
leagues distant from the ship,--whileatern and  h Crowd on all  mdery yard of sa f !" shouted
ahead, but' a league to leeward, lay the two the earl. "We must cut the frigate off from her
eapes.'To the northward'The faint blue line chase. Ten to one, there is some one of the
of the 'coast of Susex and the Isleoffight price's friends in her, and the glass-of the cap.
were visible, forty miles -ofd,4. little astern, tain of the frigate has detected him."
and about seven 'miles.distant,, was the larger  All on board was now intense enthbusiasm.-
ship, the Leviathan, coming down on the wind, Every nautical art was brought into use to in-.
and steering as if running quietly for Cher- crease the ,ship's velocity, and enable her tocut
bourg. Forward of the beam, in6the nor- off the fishing smack. The latter had fullsdive
- thera board, also was to b seen the other miles yet to sail before she could reach the
ship, steering also for Cherbourg, though as this French, shore. She was aiming for the litter
was a French port, there was no probability of fishing port of Feschamps, beyond the cape. On
their being bound there; but as the Prince her starboard quarter, not two and a half miles

065

1  .


66                         THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.
distant, and pressing all canvass after,'aiidfiring 'ing boat, arid drawing nearer under constant
at intervals, was the frigate we have spoken of, firing, to the point at which both aimed.
and from the rapidity withwhich she gained on  "'Itisthe prince !" shouted one' of the officers,
her, there was every prospect of her capturing who had been for some moments looking at the
the prize for which she seemed to be straining smack, which,'having been cleared from water.
all her nerve.                             the persons in it were'once more pulling towards
The cruiser Prince Charles was about a mile the French coast.}
and a half from the fishing smack, and so had a  "Who ? where ?" demanded Red Hand, to
mile advantage of the frigate for cutting her off; whom he stood near on the bows. '
yet, as she had to run all this distance to inter-  "The man at the smack's helm, steering.-
pose herself between them, it was' feared by Look well, my lord ! Hehas his hat off, and
Red Hand that the smack might be destroyed I can clearly distinguish his features, and his
by the shot of the frigate. He therefore, as soon long black hair, and his very figure and  sir too."
as he came within range, opened his larboard  The earltook the spy-glassL He looked through
battery upon her in the most spirited cannonade. it a moment, and then cried, with emotion:
This, as he expected, drew the fire of the frigate  "It is he ! It is the prince !- We must save
upon him, but she did not cease -to crowd sail in him! 'Blow this infernal frigate out of the wa-
chase of the boat, nor to send balls afterher from  ter ! Double shot your guns, my men ! The
one of her bow chasers.           "        prince ! our king ! is in yonder sinking bark,
"I will soon put an end to this double game," trying'to escape;for his life an  crown!
said the earl; and' bringing his ship' into'the red hot shot ! Make your iron throated guns
wind, he opened broadside after broadside upon roar ! ' See how the frigate gains! Blow her
her so effectually, that she had enough to do 'to into the air, or they will seize our king from our
take care of herself and return it. In the midst very grasp !''
of the battle, which every moment grew hotter,  The ship' reeled, and seemed rent in every
'Edward, who had kept his eye upon the smack seam by the terrible discharge of the whole of
with the telescope, exclaimed:             her broadside at once into the frigate at -scarcely
"She has been lilt, my lord, and the fishermen musket shot range. 'he iron storm that rtsh d
are trying to keep her from  sinking. But ho! 'through the air seemed to bq obedient to the
my lord ! There is the woman we saw, who has fierce mandate of the chief. One of the red hot
thrown off her gown, and now is working in a shot must have penetrated to the magazine,
man's tress. It is a man, my lord!-"       for scarcely had the roar of the disch  ceased
Then, by the mass ! it must be a disguised when it was fonowed by an explosion
-exile. Let me see !"                      palling than human ears ever heard. The very
'The earl took the glass and levelled it at the surface of the water vibrated and swang from
boat, which had her mainmast shot away, and side to side, and the whole heavens seemed rent,
which was filling fast with water.         while spars, bodies and' limbs of men, mand even
"You are-right. There are five men now, and cannon flew through the air, which was filled
1o woman! That was a disguise. How know with shrieks and groans of anguish too horrible
we but the fortunesof England are in tiat sink- for description.
ing boat I Square away the yards !" 'he shout-  Every man on board the cruiser stood' petri-
ed, "and let us go to the succor of the boat, so fled and amazed. Not a wor4 was spoken, ,qt
that if there be any one in her of note, we' can a gun fired, not a foot was moved for fullamin-
give him aid. Keepyour batteries playingtlive- ute, till the last fragment had fallen into thespa,
y,' my lords," he called to his officers. "We and the ruined ship, with a painful lyrch, de-
have 'knocked the frigate's quarter railing to scended, a huge cofin of dead and dying he-
pieces, and crippled 'her foremast; but she is neathsthe ,suface of the sea. 3 g
doing her best .t  come up with the sinking  "That was the most fearful thing Iever wit-
smack.' Bet we will, without doubt, be ahead  pessed,",said Red Hand, who 'w as the fu first
ohhr !"      ''''"                         break silence. "But it is the fate of war. Coine,
Red Hand now took a position on the bow of men!' To not stand stupified . It has saved
hie Ship, and earnestly kept his glass upon the our prince ! Behold the royal Charles himself
siklhek. Both' vessels were *idw about -"half a standing at the helm  and steering tht filing
mile distant from each otherand frotm thefish= ssm k yonder. In a few minutes we  sng hal  y

THE YOUNG       'ISHERMAN.                            67
him safe on board! His life is cheaply pur-  " That it wont, Guilford. But I hope' no
chased by the five hundred disloyal lives that harm will come upon Anne and thy mother."
have now just been spcrificed to his safety."  " No," answel-ed Guilford, thoughtfully, "they
We will now return to the smack; on 'board will scarcely dare harm' them for our acts. Let
.which we left the prince asleep, while Guilford, us hope for the best."
at the helm,,was guiding his little vessel with  "And fear the worst'for' Anne."
skill- and speed across the channel,* At one  "It is but Atpoor courage, Robin, that is ever
period both the nobles laid down in the bottom looking on the dark side. What we wish and
of the boat and slept also ; so that the smack believe will almost always come' to pass. Let
was for several hours wholly undei- the eye of us believe and hope - all will be safe with those
Guilford and 'Robin. Not long after the two we love."
noblemen had fallen into repose, a small trading  " How unlucky we should fall in with that
lugger passed them, standing towards 'the Sus- bad man, Guilford I"
sex coast. Its owner was well known to be a  " It is all for the best."
,smuggler, and Guilford, though he knew h4m  "I wish I could think about things as quietly
well, as he. belonged to Brighthelmstone, hfd as you do. But the fellow can't do us any harm,
never any intercourse with him. This man for we shall get the prince across before any one
steered his lugger a little out -of her course, in dan be sept after us."
order to pass close to the smack, which Guilford  " Yes, I hope so.' If he should fill in with any
perceiving, tried to prevent;' for he did not wish of the channel watch-ships, which we have so
to have the two fugitives who were lying in the fortunately eluded, he will give information, and
bottom of his little vessel, asleep, discovered by we shall be pursued. But as we are half way
him. The lugger, however, kept away for him, across the channel, I have little fear."
and came close under his bows.              "I don't like the looks of the ship astern," said
" Hillb, master Guilford-" he hailed;- " what Robin. "She has ports, I am suie."
luck to-day I Methinks you keep well over to the "I can't well make her out, but she can hardly
French coast, when at this tide thou shduldst notice us ; and besides, she can't be in chase of
know thou wilt find the fish plentiest off the Isle us, for she came from the Portsmouth direction."
g ht."    .         '-      .Guilford, however, was in the wrong, for once
" How dost thou know butthat I am bound as The frigate was it guarda coasta, and had been
ot thast been, to France, to get, a cargo of all the day overhauling fishing boats and ex-
Frenpeh brtndies I" replied-Guilford, in no good amining them, and had seen the smack with
-  other boats some time before. But being spoken
" Ah, by my head, it would be an honest by the lugger, the skipper of 'which pointed out
- eraud; ay, an h.nester one, may be," added the l the fishing vessel, then a league ahead of the
Han, standing up and stretching his long ieck ship,' as having two fugitives on' board, the
to look over into the smack, for he had brought frigate rewarded the' man for his info mation
his lugger almost dead into the wind's eye 'ts-he and crowded dnall sail itt chase.
was talking; " honester than smuggling over  When she ahad been rushing on this course
king's men. I see thou hast a pair!I: Rare birds, some half an hour, the captain of the frigate
my lad. How many golden louis dost this day's made out Red! Hand's vessel, and recognized
fishing bring thee ?"                    . the.'ship. Upon making known who she was,
"Go thou and mind thy own business, man,' his officers were by ho means anxious 'to come
responded Robin.        'in 'collision with the' formidable captahi, and
" That will I, and'thine too," responded the proposed'that the course of the frigate should be
man, with an evil light in his eyes. "It will be changed. To this, however, the commander
hardly safe for thee to land foot again on Sussex firmly objected. The : disastrous results of the
shore, if I get there afore ye.'! :  , '   chased the reader has already seeft.
With these words of menace he {et his main  When it began, Guilford had -called up the
sheet fly, and before the windwent oi  way prince and made known the exact danger they
towards the English shore.      r7w        were in. Prince Charles then manifested the
" That man will do as he says, 'Robini It self-possession which always characterized him.
will be hardly safe for either, you'or I to go Having closely observed the two vessels, both of
ack at present."  -  -                  ' which were standing towards him, an'd both of

i

.
F
c
r
r
R
r-
r,

1,


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.              69

which he supposed to be enemies, he promptly waves, dashing the spray upon themas it whizzed
gave directions for the management of their es- past.
cape. By his suggestion, Guilford, Robin, and  Another, and a third shot followed, and then,
the two noblemen rowed with the four oars, and they beheld the ship of the earl come to the wind
he himself'took the helm, and at the same time and open her cannonade. The scene to the eyes
kept the sails wetted by-throwing water upon of the princetand all with him was so intensely,-
them with a long handled scoop which the smack interesting, as they gazed upon, the fierce battle
carried for this purpose.                  between the two ships, that for a moment they
"She gains on us, your majesty," said Guil- forgot to row. But they were reminded of their
ford, whose practised eye could note with more duty by a shot from  the frigate, which struck
accuracy than theirs the least vacation. of dis- their boat just forward of the beam, on the bulge
tance on the water.    I. ,                of the bow, and cut her down to the water's edge.
"Which of the two, master Guilford.?" asked Instantly they became aware of their peril, ,pnd
the prince, now looking .at the frigate astern as the boat began to fill, Guilford sprang to-
andnow at Red Hand's :ship, both of which wards the prince, and, placed in his hands a
were equally distant from the.smack. '-"   thwart, saying that "it would buoy him up if the
" Both of them I see now gain. But the ship boat went down."  %
to the west is, I believe, a friend, my prince!" -"Thanks, my.brave friend; but what will be-
suddenly exclaimed Guilford.               come of thee ?" said the prince, seeing.that the
"A friend! Then welcome to her! But, by two lords held the other planks.
the mace of King Cole, master Guilford, there  " I will take care of myself. If thou art saved,
is but poor chance of a fugitive like me finding my prince, my poor life will be well offered for
a friend in a iCromwell ship."             thy safety."
"I do believe, your majesty, it is the Earl  " That may not be. Can't we save her ?"
Red Hand's channel cruiser."                 " Yes, perhaps' we can float, if the noble cav-
".Earl Villiers !" cried the prince, with ani- aliens will aid to bail out with their hats."
nation. " The good angels grant it be. But I  " That we will all do," responded the prince ;
*bar you are mistaken."                    and throwing off the gown, which tillnow - he
"No, my lord-I mean your majesty--"      had worn, he set the example. Robin, in i'the
"Let my majesty alone, good master Gra- meanwhile, tried to stop the rush of water in,
ham," said the prince.                     by throwing his body into the gap, an expedient
"Nay, shall I call thee my prince ?"     which was successful; for soon the little vessel
"If thou wilt. Art sure of the vessel? for the began to rise from the flood and float with more
stout earl is one of the staunchest friends I and buoyancy. But all their efforts were for a mo-
England has at this dark day."            ment suspended by the , terrific explosion, whlch
"I can't be mistaken,, my prince," responded freed them from their enemy astern-in the awful
Guilford, with animation. "I recognize the poop manner we have already described.
and the castle qn her bows ; Ifor.I was on -board  " Merciful heaven assoilzie their poor souls"
of her only last-night."                   reverently ejaculated tue prince, as: he saw the
"True. The good stars of my house now    brave ship plunge headlong beneath the sea
ai4 me. Blow, sweet winds!- Butnay ! The with its-mass of life. The swell of the sea'that
same wind that giveth her to us bringeth our foe," followed the immersion of so large a bulk:tossed
" Your majesty," said Lord Algernon, the the smack wildly about,- and it required all
gray-bearded noble, ";that must be the Earl their united aid to keep her from going down.--
Villiers, for that is not the. English flag which On all sides were seen the black heads 'of swim
he has just hoisted."                      mers, who were calling for aid; for at least six
"It is a blue flag with a red hand in the cen- score of the crew were thrown by-the explosion
tre !" cried the Scottish lord, with a kindling eye. unhurt into the sea.         f
'-It is the earl's ship."                    "-We cannot aid thee, wretches," -said the
"Then there is,-hope for us yet! But there prince, "for we are in a strait equal to thine. All
eemes an iron ball after us," added the .prince, our hopes depend on the present approach of the
as a jet of smoke belched from the bows of the earl's ship."
frigate which had the English cross flying at her This vessel was now within five huidted
mast head, and a shot.came bounding over the fathoms of the smack, which could be scarcely
rt

kept afloat. Upon her bows stood Red Hand,
calling out manfully to the prince :
" Keep up heart, my royal master! A few
seconds more and we will reach you! Down
with the boats, but first for me !" he added.
The warlike, castellated ship now got within
her length of the smaclk, 'when the earl sprang
into a boat alongside, and pulled by a dozen
strong arms, the next moment had the prince's
hand in his, and cew him from the foundering
fishing vessel into his own barge. Instantly lie
dropped on his knee before him, and with tears
in his eyes kissed his hands.
" 0, my prince ! my escaped, my beloved and
royal Charles !" The air at the same tine was
rent with huzzas for Prince Charles, and for a
few moments it seemed as if every man in the
boats and on the ship were beside themselves.-
Some shouted, some wept, some huzzaed, some
danced over the decks, others embraced, and all
was joy and glad uproar.
5            r

Escorted by the earl, Prince Charles ascended
the side of the ship, and then every officer
pressed around him, knelt before him, and em-
braced him, weeping like children. Charles
himself could scarcely see for the emotions that
blinded his own eyes with tears. He recognized
this one and that one, and called them by name,
and kissed on the check some of those whom he
had once known most intimately.
" Now, your highness;" said Red Hand, whose
war-worn cheeks were wet with tears of delight,
"let me lead thee to my cabin."
" Nay, not till I have presented to thee and all
my friends the brave young man to whom I owe
my escape from England. Where is he ?"
The prince then looked around for Guilford
and also for Robin, but was told they were in
the smack, which some of the sailors were aiding
them in saving from sinking. He then called to
him to leave the boat and come on board.

/


THE YOUNG FI§HERtMAN               U

CHAPTER XIX.

A NEW DANGER--RED HAND's DEVOTION.

WiEN Guilford, in obedience to the command
of the prince, came over the ship's side, and the
eyes of the Earl Red Hand fell upon him, the
latter exclaimed with surprise and pleasure:
- " What ! dost thou owe thy secure flight from
the shores of Britain to this young man, your
majesty ?"
"Yes; and never will I forget my obligations
to him. Advance, master Guilford, and let me
present thee as my deliverer to these my noble
friends."
" By the rood, sir Guilford !" said the earl, as
he warmly grasped his hand, " thou art in luck.
Thy star is in the ascendant. Thou art the most
fortunate man born ! Come, thou shalt tell
me how it has been thy fortune to be of such
service to England's king."
"My lord," said Edward, who had already
exchanged a grasp of the hand with Guilford,
" the men in the boats wish to know if they shall
save the poor devils who are swimming about
the ship ?"
" What," exclaimed the prince, " the wretches
thrown into the water by the explosion of the
frigate ?"
" Yes, your highness," answered Red Hand.
a By all means ! pick them up to a man, and
be diligent ! They are all my British subjects.
You have room for them, my good Villiers ?"
" Yes, your majesty, as prisoners," answered
Red Hand, with a slight cloud upon his brow.
"But I have little favor towards the villains who
have placed my prince's life in jeopardy."

"Let that pass ! We must be humane, my
dear earl. But what ship have we standing
down so bravely this way ?"
" That is a parliament war vessel, your majes-
ty," answered Red Hand, who had been so much'
occupied with the rescue and reception of the
prince as to be heedless of the approach of this
vessel, until now she was within a league, and
booming down upon them under all her enor-
mous spread of canvass.
Red Hand, having escorted the prince to his
cabin, and ordered refreshments at once to be
placed before him and the two noblemen, has-
tened from his presence, and ascending the
highest part of the stern, called Edward to his
side.
"Place the telescope in rest here, and let me
have a sight at this monster, for I begin to fear,
that the prince, now that he is on board of us,
would be safer any where else."
" There is great danger, my lord," answered
Edward. "She is certainly coming on us fast
since we stopped to take the prince on board."
" Yes, that she is, and she is already train-'
ing her guns upon us. Make all sail !" he shout-
ed, like the tones of a battle trumpet. " Every
man to his post ! Boats, aboard ! If there are
any more men to be picked up, let the ship
astern look after them. Cast overboard a dozen
spars for the miserable wretches to float on !
Sail all! We must save the prince from cap-
ture !"
At the sound of his ringing commands all

0
SLY
" Yt
r e
1
Y

was activity from stem to stern. The boats
were hoisted up, apd Robin had theregret to see
his smack, to which no repairs could be made,
drop astern, and at length slowly disappear be-
neath the tide.
But all that the good ship could do, she could
not make her way beyond reach of the Levia-
than's long guns, one of which was now fired
upon her at the farthest range.' The shot fell
astern a quarter of a mile; but the second shot,
which soon followed, dropped into the ship's
wake.
" The game is up," said the earl. " It will not
do for the prince to stay half an hour longer on
board, for that ship will blow me out of the wa-
ter, unless I can work to windward, and then it
is doubtful if we can get away from her."
This was spoken to a group of officers whom
he had called around him on the deck, while the
prince was regaling himself with the wines and
acceptable fare he had placed before him.
" We are caught in this bay of Havre de
Grace, and must either run ashore or fight."
"It would be madness, my lord, to fight such
a ship, twice our size," said his officers.
"I know it. My mind is made up. We must
let the prince go. There is the little village of
Feschamps under our lee, not five miles distant.
And there flies a French fisherman straight into
the port. Fire a gun forward, and bring the
boat to."
The order was no sooner given than obeyed,
and a small fly-sail boat with one mast, which
was darting over the water, landward, like a
swallow on the wing, suddenly lowering its tri-
angular sail, waited- the approach of the ship.--
In the meanwhile, the earl entered the cabin
where the prince was at his repast with his two
friends.
'"This is a feast, my dear earl, fit to set be-
fore a king," said the prince, laughing. "Ihave
not dined so well in many a day. By the rood !
if you keep us so well here in your castle of the
sea, we shall be induced to be long your guest."
"Gladly would I have your majesty my guest
as long as it may please you to honor my poor
vessel with your royal presence. But I regret
to say that I have, come, your majesty, to warn
you that you are not safe even here, though you
are surrounded with brave hearts and'loyal; but
these may bleed for you, but they cannot protect
you against the foe that menaces your safety."
" What now? Have I to fly again so' soon,
my dear earl?' said the prince, with a slight

shade of discontent on his brow. "I was in,
dulging the hope that for a day or two I should
find here repose and quiet."
"So I hoped, your highness. Please cast your
eyes out of the -stern window, and you will see
one of the largest of Cromwell's ships in chase
of us. Itwill be impossible for me to cope with
so formidable an antagonist ; and I have come
to beg your majesty to take refuge on board a
French fishing vessel now alongside."
"I am in your hands, my dear earl and my
lords," answered the prince, rising. "But to
whom am I to entrust myself?"
" Two Frenchmen,-an old man and a boy,
your highness."                      , A
"I will take with me my two trusty English
friends, Graham and Robin; with themI shall
feel secure."
Upon reaching the gangway, the prince asked
Guilford if he would still accompany him and
see him safely on French ground.
Our young hero very joyfully complied with
the prince's wish, and at the same time with the
prince, the two lords who had come with him,
got into the fishing boat. Edward also made
one of the party, laden with the pacquets with
which the earl had entrusted him.
"Now farewell, my brave earl, and my lords
and gentlemen. I hope, if any of you, come to
Paris, you will not fail to call on me; and I
trust Heaven will one day send us all better for-
tunes."
. With this courteous parting speech, the prince
raised and waved his chapeau to the officers and
also to the men, who crowded the rigging and
bulwarks to see him depart. The earl lingered
on board the French boat last of all, and having
embraced the prince, he extended his hand to
Guilford.
" I see you need no aid from me, my brave
young friend. If the prince comes to his own,
you will go up with him,-that I can prophesy
without being a prophet."
The fishing boat was now cast off from the
side of the ship, and Guilford, by the command
of Prince Charles, took the helm from the old
Norman fisherman, who all the while had re'
garded with a sort of bewilderment this sum-
mary disposition, of his little vessel.
" Where will you land,, my prince " asked
Guilford, as he took the helm.
" What-village is that in the bottom of the
bay south of us1?"
-"Feschsamps, your majesty l"

e     ,y'                                                        +
c
i
S
l

71


73

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

" Good ! I will land there. We can reach it coast, and strand her and set her on fire. We
in an hour, think you ?"                   have saved the prince! Already le is within
" Yes, your majesty ! The wind is fair and hail of the coast where he will find an asylum
free."                                     and protection. With this let us be content ! If
"And so are the shot, it would seem, from we lose our ship, we shall have the proud con-
yonder huge war ship," responded Charles, as a sciousness of knowing that we sacrificed her for
heavy iron missile from the double-decker flew our beloved prince's safety. There remains now
above their heads with an appalling roar.  but a choice between captivity and the capture of
The earl, who had seen the shot pass his own our vessel, or her destruction by our'own hands,
vessel to windward, at once gallantly steered his and our safety on French soil. I shall, therefore,
ship so as to place her in line between the fishing with your consent, give orders to steer straight
vessel which contained the prince and the ene- for the land."
my; for he saw that they were directing their  The officers all were of the earl's mind, and
fire towards it, as if they suspected it contained the next moment the gallant ship, already great-
some important personage.                  ly crippled by the Leviathan's heavy targeting,
When Prince Charles saw this manoeuvre, squared her yards and drove stright for the
whereby the ship completely protected the boat beach, which extended out in front of the town
from the double-decker's guns, he said, with emo- of Cherbourg. The earl would gladly have
tion :                                     landed her near Feschamps, but a reef running
" What a true heart that brave Arthur of the out in front of that place, would have caught the
Red Hand, as men term him, has in his manly ship half a mile before she could reach the main-
and loyal bosom! He is ready to receive the land, while at Cherbourg they could run directly
whole fire of the formidable foe to protect his under the walls of the fort.
prince. It is worth the dangers and privations  The Leviathan no sooner found the ship was
I have undergone for me to learn the devotion of making for the land, than she came into the
my friends. Everywhere I have found trusty wind, and gave her first one and then another
confidants, and in no instance have I been be- broadside. But through the storm of iron the
traded."                                   brave ship held her way, though her spars were
The fishing boat now bounded merrily over splintered, her rigging cut, her timbers wounded,
the water, nearing the land each moment ; but and her scuppers running blood from her slaugh-
the sense of escape and safety was modified on tered crew. Onward she held her course, till at
the prince's part by the danger in which he now length she had only her foremast and single fore-
saw the courageous earl placed. Without at- sail remaining. Yet with this squared to the
tempting to run away from his enemy, but only wind, she drove forward, staggering and helpless,
trying to keep his vessel as a shield to cover the while the shores of Cherbourg were thronged
prince's retreat, the earl held his ship in the with citizens, who, by their shouts, encouraged
wind, and received in his hull a shower of iron those on board, The Leviathan came to about
halls that were hurled upon him from the Levia- a mile from the town, for want of sufficient depth
than, which kept stalking on, belching forth fire of water, and lowering a fleet of boats, sent them
and smoke like a moving volcano.           in after the ship, which could scarcely creep along
At length, when the earl saw that the fishing for her wounds. But at length she struck the
vessel was beyond the reach of the double-deck- shore, and a score of boats from thelandcame off
er's guns, and close under the land, quite beyond to land the crew. They were soon filled, but
all danger of capture, he proceeded to fight his Red Hand remainedlast with a dozen of his men.
vessel out of the dangerous situation in the best  " We willgive them a parting salute," he said,
manner he was able. But after firing three quietly.
broadsides, which had no effect upon the double-  The guns on the larboardbatteryhad been pre-
decker, which drew nearer every moment, he viously shotted, and as the ship in grounding had
called his officers about him,             swung beam onto land, her battery bore directly
"My lords and loyal gentlemenI You need upon the flotilla of boats. The latter were pull-
not be told of the imminent peril we are in. The ing in with a perseverance and boldness that
fate of our noble ship is sealed. It is impossible showed their determination to take the ship
for us to save her. Our only hope for our own though she was in a friendly port; but in those
safety is to square away and run for the French days the privileges of neutrality were not so sa-

credly regarded by nautical men as they are at of his command on the channel, than in all his
the present day.                          fourteen years' cruisings. Out of nine boats, but
When the boats of the parliament ship had three reached the Leviathan, the others having
got within half a mile, Red Hand gave the signal been destroyed by the fire of the Royal Charles
by touching off the after gun with his own hand.  The earl stood upon the shore and witnessed
The others were discharged in rapid succession, with a sad heart the conflagration of his fine
and the earl, amid the smoke, after setting fire ship, as in the dusk of evening she shot up
to his ship, left her to her fate.        tongues of lurid flame to the sky, illummating
The effect of the broadside upon the advancing town and port, harbor and shore, sea and clouds
boat was prodigious; so that it was said that with her brilliant flame, and night closed over a
Red Hand had slain more men in the last hour scene of appalling interest and excitement.
CHAPTER XX.
TiHE PRINCE'S STAR IN THE ASCENDANT.

TuE earl and his officers were hospitably en- ti
tertained that night by the citizens of Cherbourg, i
vho, when they learned that Prince Charles had tI
safely landed in France, illuminated their city n
with joy; for the French of all, classes had a t
great horror of Cromwell, and although they
knew little of Prince Charles, the fact that lie n
was the legitimate heir to the British throne, was p
enough to bind to him the sympathy of the loyal, b
and, in that da , king loving people.s
The next day the earl, ivhose renown made U
him no inconsiderable mark of curiosity, quittedc
Cherbourg for St. Lo, where his daughter, the I
-fair Lady Jane, was placed for security and ed- I
cation. He was accompanied by several of his
officers, who, from thence were to accompany
liim to Paris, where they hoped to meet the
prince, of whose safe landing at Feschamps thel
earl had heard through Edward, who had joined
him at Cherbourg.
"And what became of my brave friend Guil-
ford ?" asked the earl.
" He accompanied the prince. by his request, to
Paris. I saw them depart, with the youth, and
Robin, mounted on horses furnished by the
mayor of Feschamps. Lords Algernon and
Catesby also accompanied his majesty ; and
they hoped to reach Paris in eighteen hours."
At St. Lo the earl received his daughter, who
joined the cavalcade, and riding more especially
under the care of the youthful secretary, she was
escorted to the metropolis.
The subsequent events connected with the ar-
rival of the prince in France, and his retiring
and establishing a court inlHolland of the nobles
who had followed him, are such common mat-

ers of history, that we need not dwell upon them
;n our story, but carry our narrative forward to
lhe period when the sun of his fortunes onco
more rose above the horizon and lighted him to
lhe throne of his ancestors.
Cromwell, after an unparalleled usurpation of
nine years, at length died, contrary to the ex-
ectation of his enemies, peacefully upon his
bed, and naming his son Richard as his succes-
or. But this erson possessed none of the am-
bition or statesmanlike talents, or warlike spirit
of his father, and after a brief exercise of the
power bequeathed to him, resigned it into the
hands of a parliament. England was now with-
out a head ; and all hearts were turned to the
youthful Prince Charles, who still remained in
Holland, where he surrounded himself by a bril-
liant court. To him a messenger was despatched
by the Parliament, offering to reinstate him on
the throne of the realm on certain conditions.
The prince, when the parliament's courier was
announced, was dining at a table, at which were
seated a score of his nobles, among whom were
lord Algernon, the Scottish lord Catesby, and
last, not least, Arthur of the Red Hand, Earl of
Villiers.
When the prince received the pacquet from
the hand of Lord Rudolph, who was the messen-
ger, his brow darkened as he perused it, the ex-
pression of his face being all the while closely
watched by his friends, who forgot the banquet
in their anxiety to learn the news from England.
But when he came to the close of it, a smile
curled his lip.
"News from London, my lords! You will
excuse me while I withdraw to give a response.

72


TIM~ YOtrNG -IISIIETMAl.                                                                                                                   7

My lord," he added, addressing the Earl of Vil- parliament will insist on, and therefore I would
liers, " you will please retire to my cabinet with get them from your hand in order that when I

me?"
He also named four other noblemen, and then
rising, he took his leave and departed from the
banquet room. Upon reaching his cabinet he
closed the door, but first gave orders to have
"Lord Rudolph Vane, the courier, hospitably en-
tertained with all honor.
"See to it, Guilford !" he paid., turning to our
hero, who had left the table with him at his com-
mand, and now followed him into the cabinet.
" Your majesty could perhaps hardly appoint
a less acceptable host to Lord Rudolph," an-
swered Guilford, with a slight color of embarrass-
ment.
" True-true! I had forgotten ! My Lord
Granville," added the prince, I pray you take
care of Lord Vane's comfort. We must not
treat discourteously our Parliament's messen-
ger")
" I obey, your majesty," answered the noble-
man, retiring.
"Now, my lords," said the king, " hear our
words. The brave and loyal General Monk, who
seems to be standing just now in Cromwell's
shoes in England, writes me that now Richard
the son has resigned his power, he is ready to
offer me my father's throne, provided that I will
submit to and put my signature to certain con-
ditions-the very conditions which will make
me recreant to my royal father's memory, and
be as it were an endorser of the justice of his
murder. By the soul of the Confessor, I will
bind myself to no conditions to regain that which
is lawfully mine. My lords, I will nevertheless
advise with you!"
" May it please your majesty to read to us
such passages of General Monk's letter as may
enable us to advise your majesty "
"Listen."'--
"' Your majesty's restoration is the wish of
my breast. That achieved, I am content to lay
down all power and retire to private life. I am
at the head of an army of ten thousand men. I
am encamped near London. I have power to
wield the Parliament at my will. As yet they do
Clot suspect my intentions, which alone I now
reveal to your majesty. If your majesty will
consent to the conditions herewith enclosed, I
can safely invite your majesty to London, and
insure you a public reception that will surpass
any public entry of a monarch since the days of
the Conqueror. These conditions I know the

propose your restoration to this body, I may be
able on the spot to shut their months to all oba
sections. I despatch my friend Lord Vane as
the special bearer of this missive. Do not delay
a reply, I entreat your majesty; and I pray do
not refuse to comply with conditions, without
which I fear the restoration can never be effect-
ed. The hearts of the people are with your
majesty;
"Now, my lords, here are the conditions."
The prince then read from a paper enclosed
in the letter the conditions which history has
made familiar to every reader.
" You perceive, my friends," he said, when he
had concluded, " what chains they would shackle
us with!'
" Nay, your majesty," said the earl; " but rath-
er with what rivets they would strengthen your
throne !"
" Ha ! think you that way, my lord I'
"I do, your majesty. The people no doubt
would receive you without conditions. But the
Parliament must be humored."
"I will truckle to none of them!"
"Nay, your majesty, but something must be
yielded on account of the disjointed state of the
times, and the imperfections of men's loyalty."
" Well, you no doubt counsel wisely. Guil-
ford !"
" Your majesty," answered the young fisher,
man, who stood near an escritoire a little in the
rear of the king. He was dressed in a hand',
some suit of plum-colored velvet, richly em,
broidered, a silken vest and laced doublet, and
his hair flowed long and waving upon his shape-
ly shoulders. In the interval of two or three
years since we last parted with him, a change
has been made not only in his appearance but in
his position. The prince had become personally
attached to him from the day he had assisted in
effecting his escape from England, and gave
him a position near his own person, as his pri-
vate secretary, a situation of responsibility, which
Guilford's talents, address, and, thanks to his
mother's good education, enabled him to fill
with credit and honor. At length he became so
useful to the prince, that the latter could hardly
bear his absence; and he always consulted him
on all matters before bringing them'before his
nobles; and after any council, at which Guil-
ford was ever present as secretary, he would talk
oter with him the debates, and search his opin

ions upon what had been discussed. By this inasmuch as our subscription to the terms youlay
means our hero not only made himself signally down, which are the same in defence whereof
useful to the prince, but as he always had his our august father lost his head, we cannot sub.
ear, he held an influence in the eyes of the nobles scribe to them in full; but we will arrange these
which gave him a consideration that even rank conditions when we come into England, to the
would not have gained him. If any lord had satisfaction of our Parliamnent. We pledge our-
any suit to prefer, any scheme to forward, Guil- selves, however, and here witness our hand, that
ford was first made a confidant, with the request we will do nothing contrary to the constitution
that-he would bespeak the prince in favor of the of our realm. If this pledge be satisfactory, we
applicant. The agreeable person, the engaging will, on hearing from you to this -effect, let
and unaffected manners, and the elegant ad- nothing delay our return to England.
dress of the young attendant of the prince made (Signed in presence of our council of lords.)
him a universal favorite ; and even envy was                           CHAnLEs R.
silenced, when it was remembered that the   " Well, my lords, will that suit you I" a sked
young secretary was only receiving, in this favor the king, looking round upon each face, and
of his prince, his just reward in having brought finally resting his dark eyes full upon the face
him from England to France, and saved him of Earl Villiers of the Red Hand.
fromhis foes.                                " It is as much as becomes your majesty to
Robin, who had no talents for a court, and say," answered the lords.
who had no high aspirations, after remaining a  "Then it shall go ! Seal and direct it to Gen-
few months in Paris, and hearing that the smug- eral Monk, Guilford. Now, gentlemen, we will
gler who had seen him in the smack had been return to the banquet room."
shot, returned to Brithelmstone, where he made  The king's cheerful countenance as lie re-
the heart of the widow glad by the intelligence entered the hall, gave all hearts hope, and then
he brought of Guilford's prosperity and favor he said, to cheer them: "It is good news, my
with the prince. Soon afterwards he married friends; the star of our fortune begins to bright-
the pretty Anne, and taking up his abode in the en. Within three weeks, if nothing happens, I
cottage, pursued the same occupation as for- hope we shall see merry England once more."
merly, and sometimes even going, in his fishing  Upon nearing this, the wheo company of no-
trips, quite to the coast of France, to convey ble exiles-started to their feet and made the hall
and receive letters that passed between the prince ring with three loud British huzzas.
and his friends in England. There were letters,  The banquet was once more about to be re-
also, which were not strictly of a political na- sumed, when Lord Rudolph, who was icvited
ture, of which he was the bearer, inasmuch as by the king to be seated on his right, seeing the
they were handed him by the Lady Catharine, Earl Villiers seated next to him, rose and drew
and addressed to " The Rt. Worshipfull Guilford back, clapping his left hand upon his sword hilt.
Graham, Sec'y to his majesty Prince Charles." "What, so! How is this ?" demanded the
" Guilford," now said the prince, after having king.
got the mind of his nobles, " sit thee down and  " Ihave a feud of blood with the Earl Villiers,
write to the gallant General Monk these words: and cannot sit by him," answered Lord Rudolph,
We, Charles Rex, having received your fair let- with a fierce countenance. " Your majesty will
ter, give you thanks from our heart for the loyal excuse me ! I will at my hotel await your an-
spirit which bath prompted thee to make us the swer to General Monk."
offer ofyour aid to restore us to our throne. But,  With these words, he strode out of the ball.

75

t

T111 YatNG flSHEfMAX.


TEin abrupt departure of the fiery noble
caused a momentary excitement. The prince
looked displeased. The earl smiled haughtily,
and young Edward Percy, recently become Earl
of Percy, stole out after the noble.
But he had no sooner reached the vestibule,
than he saw Lord Rudolph draw his sword, and
with the flat of it strike Guilford, who at the
moment was walking across the corridor. Our
hero had remained a few moments in the cabi-
net to seal and address the letter to General
Monk, and when he was returning to the hall,
he met Lord Rudolph face to face. The latter,
the way being narrowed by two columns, on
recognizing him, cried:
" Stand aside, dog!"
Guilford's sword was in his hand, but recollect-
ing that he was the brother of Lady Kate, he
suppressed his rising resentment, and was pass-
ing him, when, as we have said, Lord Rudolph
struck him in the face.
" Now, by the red rood !" said young Edward
Percy, as lie beheld the blow, "if Guilford stand
this, he hath caitiff's blood in him indeed!" ,
Guilford, however, kept his sword point down,
and would have gone by him, when Rudolph
spat upon him, accompanying the act with an
epithet of derision.
The forbearance of our hero was now at an
end. He forgot Lady Kate's brother in his own
insulter. Throwing himself upon him, he took
his sword from him and broke it upon the pave-
ment, and then, with the eye of a lion, he glanced
upon him with contempt, and was going into
the hall, when the prince and several nobles
rushed forth, having heard the ecufflea

" What means this ? What is this drawing of
swords in our very presence ! The person of an
ambassador is sacred. Guilford, you are under
arrest."
" Your majesty," said the young Earl Percy,
"Guilford is not to blame. Lord Rudolph in-
sulted him, and he bore it ! He then struckhim,
and yet lie bore it. He then spat uponb'him, and
your secretary took his sword from him and
broke it under his feet, as you see there !"
"Then it is Lord Rudolph Vane who hath
done this discourtesy ?" said the prince, redden-
ing with anger. " My lord, I supposed thou
hadst come hither to us as a messenger of peace,
not a maker of brawls."
" I shall not give account of my conduct to
one who has neither the right nor the power to
exact it," answered Lord Rudolph, haughtily.
" This to the prince's face !" exclaimed Earl
Percy, with a flashing eye.
"Nay, Edward ! We can forgive this rude-
ness."
"I would punish it, your majesty, but that he
hath but one hand, and it would not be taking
him on fair terms," answered Edward.
Lord Rudolph had kept his right arm wrapped
in his cloak, a custom  which he had followed
ever since his recovery from his wounded wrist.
He now thundered back, forgetting that Red
Hand was present:
"Thou list !"
"What ! But we will make thee show thy,
self a liar !" retorted Edward, and suddenly
tearing from his cloak, he exposed the handless
wrist. There was a shout of si-prise from all
around ; and Lord Rudolph, with his left hand,

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.                                   77
caught Edward's sword, and made a thrust so  " What ! am  I a prisoner ?" demanded Lord
deadly at the young earl, that he would have Vane, fiercely, and turning pale.
tun him through the body, but for the interposi- "'c'hat may be as you construe it. You are
tion of Guilford, who received the point of the not to leave the town until twenty-four hours
blade in his sleeve, at the imminent risk of hav- have'passed."
ing his arm pierced by it.                   " This is unbearable ! and you, of all men,
"This must be stopped, by our head !" cried my jailer !"
Prince Charles. " Arrest Lord Rudolph 1"     "I see thou lovest me not. But one cannot
But before he could be obeyed, the savage choose his friends or enemies in this world, my
young noble bounded from the corridor, and lord. In such cases we must be patient."
leaping into his saddle, spurred away at full  Lord Vane looked at the earl as if he could
speed, followed by the cries of derision and scorn annihilate him, and then returning to his apart-
of the assembled nobles.                   ments, paced his floor in suppressed rage.
"Now, by our halidom, my friends," cried the  In the meanwhile Guilford spurred forward,
prince, " this unfortunate matter, if reported with and about midnight, by the light of a bright
distorted tongue in England, will do us a mis- moon, he came in sight of the shining waters of
chief and mar our fortune. He must not be the sea. His road terminated at a small hamlet
suffered to embark and bear his own tale until I composed of a few Dutch houses. Not a vessel
have forwarded my message with the despatch- was to be seen in this harbor save the brigan.
es. After my letter reaches our general's hands, tine in which Lord Rudolph had come over, and
Lord Vane can do no mischief, whatsoever he which lay off waiting his return. This he was
may say. Guilford !"                       bound to avoid, lest lie should be too closely
"Your majesty ?"                         questioned, and after riding along the coast four
" Prepare to proceed at once to London."  miles, he saw a lonely hut, and at a little pier
" I am ready, your majesty."             near it, a fishing lugger. This lie succeeded in
" Then leave at once. You will find passage hiring of the old man, and Soon embarked to
easy across the channel with the aid of gold.- cross to England. The wind - was light, , but
Here is my purse. You have the pacquet. Go, fair, and on the fourth day he landed near the
and Heaven speed thee, and bring thee safely mouth of the Thames, and detaining the boat
back to us with good tidings. My Lord Villiers, for his return, lie hired a horse and rode on to
please you see that this hot-brained Lord Vane London. He reached the metropolis just as the
does not take boat till Guilford hath been full sun was rising on the morning oftlhe fifth day
twenty-four hours in his advance."         since leaving the presence of his prince. Put-
"I will see to it, your majesty," answered the ting up at an inn near the Parliament house, he
earl, who at once' quitted the prince's presence. straightway inquired for the direction to General
In another hour Guilford was on his way to Monk.
the sea-side, mounted on a fleet steed, the letters " What, wilt thou-list with him ?" asked mine
of which he was the bearer being tied about him  host. "It is said lie pays well, though his army
beneath his belt, which also held his well filled hath a beggarly look, and not a good wife can
purse of gold.                             keep an egg or a bit of poultry within a circuit
He had to ride seven leagues before reaching of ten miles about his camp. If thou wouldst
he sea. He knew that lie had already the start join him, thou wilt find his headquarters at
of Lord Rudolph, who, still expecting to take Smithfield ; but if thou wilt waif an hour thou
back the prince's answer, had ridden to his ho- wilt see him go by here to his house, near St.
tel. Here he soon learned, by a visit from one James's palace, where he does business with the
of the prince's pages, that another bearer had Parliament.
been selected by the prince. No sooner had he " The Parliament are governed pretty much
been made acquainted with the fact,' than he by the general's opinions, are they not ?" asked
called for his horse and servants, and was pre- Guilford.
paring to depart for the coast, when Earl Vil-  " No, sir cavalier, for they don't know exactly
liers met him at the door, and said sternly:  what they are. The old fellow is secret as a
" My lord, I am commanded by my prince to mason! But at heart we believe he is for our
detain your lordship for the space of twenty-four Charley o'er the water, and would be glad to see
hours."                                   the restoration."

CHAPTER XXI.
LORD RUDOLPH'S DASTARDLY ACT.


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

" And the people at large, do they wish for
the prince ?"
"Do they ? they would darken the very skies
with their caps in the air, if he should come into
London to-day. Ah, he is a brave prince, and
we all love him. We dare to say so, now Crom-
well's day is-gone; but once it was as much as
an honest man's head was worth to speak about
him.",
While Guilford was talking with the commu-
nicative and loyal host, there was heard up the
street a shouting of men, and then the clangor
of a bugle, and a moment afterwards the cry on
all sides:
" Monk ! Monk ! Here comes the general !"
Guilford's blood bounded ! He was more in-
terested than all others in his coming, and as he'
rode past, accompanied by half a dozen field
officers and an orderly or two with a body guard
of eighty horse bringing up the rear, he could not
but regard with deep interest the man who held
the reins of the power of England, not for him-
self, but for the prince his master.
Without delay lie followed the troop of horse,
and at length reached a stately mansion, before
which he saw General Monk alight and enter.-
He was about to press forward to ascend the
steps, when he was put back by a dragoon, who
said:
" Not so fast, sir cavalier. No one enters
here without an order-no they don't."
Guilford looked hard in the man's face, for he
thought he recognized the voice. But a huge
red beard and a fiery moustache defeated at
first his scrutiny. But the man himself aided
him in the matter, for, after regarding Guilford
attentively, he said in a - gratified, chuckling
manner:
" What ! is not this master Guilford Gra-
ham?"
" Thou sayest truly," answered Guilford ;
" but if thon knowest me, do not speak it out so
loudly."   e
"And dost thou not know me? I dare say I
look too warlike for you to see through me. I
am Digby-your old friend Dgby !"
"Toby Digby ! Verily, you are nolonger like
yourself. Thou a dragoon ?'.
" Marry come up ! What would you have a
man do! I got my head broke so often by
Cromwell's troopers, that I learned the knack o'
head breaking myself. So, what with fighting,
I got my blood up, and when Monk's sargents
came down to our town 'listing, Jwas one o' the

first to enlist. It is a brave life, so long as w
don't have any fighting. But, bless us ! they
say you are with Prince Charles over the sea,
and he has made a lord of you !"
" The prince can hardly make lords where he
is, honest Digby. I am glad to see thee such a
changed man, and doing so well."'
" What art thou doing in England, master
Guilford ?"
"I would see General Monk.. Can you let
me pass, for old companion's sake ?"
" Marry, that will I. Go in ; and when thou,
bast done thine errand, wait till I am off guard,
and we'll have a rare gossip o' bygones."  -
With these words the trooper drew aside, and
let Guilford pass. Going by several officers who
stood in the hall, he came to an orderly, who
stood near an inner door, and said that he de-
sired to have a word of importance with the
general.
" Your name ?"
"It is of no consequence. Say I have letters
to him from France."
Upon hearing this, there was a murmur in the
hall, of surprise and expectation from the mili-
tary men and others in waiting, and Guilford
was scrutinized with curiosity.
" A messenger from France ! A courier from
the prince !" went buzzing from lip to lip.
" His excellency desires to see you," said the
orderly, re-appearing after a moment's absence,
Guilford, all travel-worn as he was, entered
the apartment of the commander-in-chief of the
army. The general bent his eyes upon him as
he came towards him, and then said courteously,
yet with animation :
"Did I understand my orderly aright ? Do
you bring letters from France ?"
" Yes, your excellency, from the prince."
"From his majesty ! exclaimed the general,
with a look of pleasure. "But how is this?
Where is Lord Rudolph Vane ?'
" He arrived, and placed your letters in the
prince's hands, but when the reply, which I now
bear, was ready, he got into some altercation
with some of the nobles and others, and gave
some offence to the prince, who entrusted the
letters to me, who hold the place of his private
secretary."
" You are then Sir Guilford Graham ?"
" At your excellency's service," answered our
hero, as he placed the pacque, which he had by'
this time unbuckled from his girdle, in the gen-
eral's hands.

78 -

,a

TIME'YOUN0 FISH        ,MANQ,                         79
'"I am glad to see yon and to know you. I  All was now excitement and motion. very
!have heard ho* the prince owes his escape from gentleman hastened to his saddle. Digby, who
England to your courage and devotion."    resolved not to lose the opportunity of having a
Thus speaking, the general broke the seal of gossip of bygone times with his former acquama-
the letter and read it. Guilfotd, who had been tance, had kept a sharp eye on the door for sonie
at Paris knighted by the prince, in token of his time. But when he saw him reappear walking
gratitude, and who also, at the same time, had side by side with General Monk, and heard the
received from the larench king the order of a general order a horse to be brought to him, and
chevalier, now marked closely each change in saw the deference and honor which the coma
the expression of General Monk's countenance. mander of the army paid to him, his amazement
Having penned the letterhhnself, he knew every was so great as nearly to stupify him%
lite of it, and could clearly distinguish what the  " What aileth thee, man ?" called one of his
sentences were at which he frowned, and those comrades to him. " Are thine eyes going to
which seemed to give him pleasure. At length quit thy head ? Fall in With thy horse into the
he turned towards the secretary, and with a rank. Dost not hear that we are ordered to fall
mixed expression of dissatisfactionandpleasure, in and trot ?"
he said:                                     Digby mechanically obeyed the order. But
" Sir Guilford, do you know the contents of he shook his head, and with a downcast look, lie
this letter i"                             said to himself:
"I do, your excellency;"                  "My gossip is all up. Master Guilford has
" I am sorry the prince refuses to sign the become a great man. I heard lie was a lord,
conditions, but it cannot be helped. We must and it must be true."
'do as well as we can with what he says. It may  At the door of the House of Commons Gen-
satisfy the Parliament.  How  left you the oral Monk alighted and entered the hall, leaving
prince ?"                                  Guilford in the vestibule. When Monk found
" In good health, your e'xcellencyy'     that the Commons had still come to no decision,
-" And the Earl Villiers, was he well? and and seeing that all hearts were for the prince,
the Barons Algernon and Catesby, and also my though not a lip dare utter his name, he stood
lord of Percy ?"                          cup and said:
"I left them all well, your excellency."   "Gentlemen, the time is come when England
"I hope soon to see them with their royal should have rest. No plan of government has
master all in England. What day did you been proposed. I will propose none ; but I
leave the prince ?"                        have just placed in the hands of your president
" This is the fifth, your excellency.'   of the council a slip of paper, on which I have
" You have made despatch. The Parliament hastily written a line with a pencil. You will
is now in session. I am 'going thither. You please read it aloud, my Lord Annesley."
'mast accompany me, Sir Guilford. I will make Every eye was fixed upon the presidents All
known to them that the prince has sent a mes- hea'its- throbbed with anxious expectation.-
-senger to them."                          Some thought it would give them the informa-
"Yes, your excellency., There are duplicates tion that the prince was privately in Londons
of the letter you have, one addressed to yourself, Others, that General Monk himself had taken
and the other inscribed, as you perceive, to the this method to make known his own intentions
Parliament."                               of assuming the protectorate. The president,
Mere Guilford showed him a letter which the however, soon removed all speculations by cead-
prince had given him in case it should be called ing as follows:
for.                                         " General Monk desires to make known to the
"This is very good. The seal remains un- House of Commons that a messenger from the
broken, amd it is addressed to the Parliament. prince'arrived in London this morning-"
I will take you with me at once to the hall.-  Here there was such a sensation and demon-
Your presence will do a great deal, as d courier strations of satisfaction so loud that the presi-
from the king."                            dent could not proceed. At length, order and
The general then left the apartment, and silence being in some degree restored, he
passing through the saloon where his staff were, resumed :
-called, "To horse i"                       "The messenger is the private secretary of his

/


80oTHE YOUNG FISHERMAN.
majesty, pir Guilford Graham, and is now.at the bed, he saw to his amazement, Lord Rudolph
door of the house, waiting to deliver a letter of lying and in the last extremity of life. Upon
which he is bearer to the Commons."       seeing him thus prostrate, all resentment fled
Upon hearing this, there was one universal from Sir Guilford's bosom, and he spoke to him
shout that rose from the members of the House, in the kindest manner, and asked what he could
and cries of "Admit him! Admit him !" were do for his repose of mind; for he remembered
heard vociferously,.                      Lady Kate, and that this was her brother.
As Guilford entered, bareheaded, and walked  No sooner .did Lord Vane hear Guilford's
up the aisle, escorted by General Monk, nothing voice, than he opened his eyes and fixed them
could exceed the delight and enthusiasm with glaringly upon him.
which he was received. The members, says his-  "What art thou come for? Thou, of all
tory, " for a moment forgot the dignity of their men !" he said,gasping. "Bring the Red Hand,
situations, and indulged for several minutes in and then 1 shall be well attended."
loud acclamations of applause."             "My lord, I'am your friend I Can I serve
Modestly, yet firmly, the youthful baronet, Sir you?"
Guilford, walked up to the head of the hall and  " Who art thou ?"
placed the letter in the hands of the president.- " Guilford Graham."
The hall was silent as the tomb while the letter "Yes. A knave ! Thou. wouldst rob me of
was read. When it was concluded, or rather my sister ! Thou hast bewitched her-thou and
while he was reading the final sentence, all at thy mother ! given her love potions I Avaunt1
once the House burst into one universal assent of I despise thee ! I spue at thee !'
the king's proposals, and immediately a vote  "I am sorry, my lord, to see you lying here
was taken that the letter should be published.- in this condition. How has it occurred ?"
A vote of thanks was also passed to Sir Guil-  But the nobleman had exhausted his strength
ford ; and as all had heard of him as having been in his last efforts to speak, and lay panting and
the person who had taken the prince to France, glaring fiercely at him.
there was a twofold motive for their crowding " His servant robbed and shot him near by,"
around hun and overwhelming him with con- said the woman. "'We found him bleeding and
gratulation s. He was taken home to dine with insensible nine days ago, and brought him in,
General Monk and a large party of lords and where he has grown worse ever since, and raves
gentlemen, and bore all his honors with a grace and curses fearfully."
and modesty that won all hearts. The same   " Yes-I have cursed thee and Lord Villiers!
evening he left London with the answer of the See! One has robbed me of my hand '" and
Comlmons and'an invitation to the king to return here he held up the inflamed stump of his wrist
and ascend the throne. The bearer of such joy- and shook it at Guilford; "and the other has
ful news, he could not obey the impulses of his robbed me of my sister !"
love to turn aside to visit Castle Vane, and he My lord, you should cease to think of worldly
hastened as fast as spur and wind could carry matters,' said Guilford, kindly. " Turn your
him, to rejoin his prince, and lay at his feet the thoughts heavenward, for methinks that thou
triumphant results of his mission. Upon land- hast not many minutes to live."
lng from the fishing lugger, which had taken  "And these I will spend in cursing thee, and
- him safely beck to Holland, our hero delayed telling thee how I hate thee. Thou a baronet !
only to reward the owner of the boat, and then Thou a prince's confidant ! Thou take my
mounting his horse, which had been kept there place as courier to the Parliament. I spit at
in waiting for him, he took the road to the town thee ! Go and tell Red Hand the robber that I
where the prince held his little court.   spent my very last breath in cursing him and
He had not ridden, however, but a league and thee I"
a half, when a woman called to him from a   " My lord, I implore-I entreat, for thy sister's
wretched house on the roadside, and asked him sake, make thy peace with Heaven ere it-"
to come in and see a man who was dying.     But Guilford paused and said no more. The
Prompt to obey the impulses of humanity, fallen jaw-the set eyes-the motionless face-
Guilford dismounted at the low door and crossed all told him that death had claimed his soul.
the threshold. By the light which came in from  "Poor man I" said the woman, "he is out of
a small square window above a miserable truckle his misery."

81

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

"Poor man !" ejaculated Guilford, "I fear me faithful subjects, and ever pray for the health
he has but just entered upon his misery."  and life of your majesty as in duty bound."
Then reflecting upon the wonderful train of  " First, let me embrace thee, my trusty friend
circumstances that had brought him to be pres- and welcome bearer of such good tidings," cried
eat at the death-bed of Lord Rudolph, he gave the king, with tears in his eyes, clasping Guil-
directions to the woman about the care of the ford to his heart before all his nobles, while they
body, and remounting his horse, galloped on to rent the air with acclamations of joy, such as
the next village. Here he laid the matter before the Dutch palace and the honest Dutch people
the mayor, and left with him gold to have the had never witnessed before. The earl also em-
body properly prepared to send to England.- braced Guilford, and so did Edward, Earl of
Having performed this duty, which both love Percy. That day and night were passed in the
for Lady,Kate and humanity prompted, he hast- most pleasurable enjoyment, and in the recep-
ened forward on his important mission.     tion by the king of the congratulations of the
Upon reaching the palace of the prince, his authorities of the town.
majesty was pacing up and down the corridor In a few days afterwards, King Charles and
with Earl Villiers in conversation, while several full two hundred lords and gentlemen left the
noblemen were lounging near in groups. No town for the coast in an imposing cavalcade.-
sooner was the rapid rider recognized to be Sir Here a ship of war, the very Leviathan which
Guilford Graham, than his name was repeated had been so near capturing him, but which had
by twenty voices, and Charles, stopping in his now changed masters, was waiting to receive
walk, waited to receive him, with his hand ex- him by the order of the Commons, and bear him
tended in welcome. Passing by the eager no- to the shores of England.
blues, Sir Guilford reached the king, and dropping  " On the twenty-ninth of May, 1660, Charles
on one knee, kissed his hand, and then placed in entered London," says the history of that event,
it the letter of the Commons. The king tore the " on his birthday. An innumerable concourse
seal, and first read half through it to himself, of people lined the way wherever he passed, and
when, seeing that it was all good news, he read rent the air with acclamations. The very sky
it aloud:                                  was darkened with the caps of the people, and
" Therefore, we, the Commons of England, rent with their shouts of welcome. They lad
do accede to your majesty's propositions with been so long distracted by factions and tyrannies,
joy, and do invite your majesty to return to they rejoiced with unusual enthusiasm to see the
England and ascend the throne of your fathers, king once more seated in security upon his
and we will ever be your majesty's loyal and throne."

S

'
t,
.

'
r


88

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

CHAPTER XXII.
LORD VANE AND LADY CATHARINE AT COURT-.
THE inhabitants of the little fishing port of  "It becomes us to mourn' for Lord Reudolpi.
Brighthelmstone were one morning thrown-into  "Yet we need not enter into the fedtivities.-
to little excitement by the arrival of a brigan- All the fiends of the king are hastening to-Lon-
tine in the port, the sails of which were shroud- don to do him homage."
ed in- black, and the flag wreathed with crape,  " True; and as Lord Rudolph was of'tie 'op-
*hile festoons of it hung from  mast to mast.-  posite side, I shall be looked to to make a more
At length a boat landed, and from the sailors, particular expression of attachment to the
after the officer had proceeded to Castle Vane, crown."
the good folks learned that it contained the body  " You will then go, dear father?"
of Lord Rudolph, who had been murdered in    "Yes. You mayhave everything ready."
Hdlland, and for whose body the marquis, his  This permission filled the bosom  of Lady
father, had sent.                          Catharine with joy. She was young, beautiful
A procession of boats escorted it to the land- and gay, and desired to see something of the
ing below the castle, where it was received by world from which she had been so long shut out.
the father of the young nobleman. The same   "Besides," said she, "I shall see 'Guilford, in
evening it was placed in the family vault, and London, for I learn he is in high favor with the
the ensuing morning, the brigantine, firing a king, and honored and loved by all men."
requiem of minute guns, slowly departed sea-  With a happy heart' the charming countess
ward.                                     left her father to make preparations for the com-
"This attention to the obsequies of my mis- ing visit to court.
guided son, I learn, from a note from Earl Vil- At length the eve of the great day of theking's
liers," said the marquis to his daughter, as they banquet and levee arrived. London was crowd-
sat together in his cabinet, talking of the dead, ed with the nobility and thiir families. One
we owe to a Sir Guilford Graham, the king's spirit of satisfaction and delight pervaded all
private secretary. Hast thou ever heard of this men's minds.
knight. my child, and knowest thou why he took The Marquis of Vane and his daughter were
this pains to honor my son ?"              at the mansion of the Earl of Villiers as his
Lady Catharine's heart beat rapidly. She guests. The daughter of the earl, the fair Lady
colored, and was about to make some confused Jane, shone with surpassing radiance above all
reply, when he further added:              other maidens - save Lady Kate. The two be-
"The Earl Villiers further says in his note came very intimate, for they had known each
that the king will hold a grand levee at the pal- other in earlier years.
ace on the first Wednesday of next month, and  "And you are to marry to-morrow the hand-
that he desires that I should be present, and some Earl of Percy, fair Jenny ?" said Lady
accompanied by thee. But-"                 Catharine to her friend, as she was arranging a
" But what, dear father?"                circlet of bridal diamonds.

0

" Yes ; and I am told by my father that you me yesterday, and next week I go on board my
are to marry the brave Lord Astley."       flag-ship at Portsmouth; for we are going to
"Lord Astley! I never saw himI" answered have war soon with Spain."
Lady Kate, with great positiveness.          " What is the name of your fiag-ship ?" asked
" Well, that is odd. Both my dear Edward Edward.
and my father told me to-day that you were to  " The Leviathan, our old friend."
marry the noble Guilford, Earl of Astley."   "How fortunes change in this life !' ejaculta-
" Guilford, do you say his name is ?"    ted the young earl.
"Yes; ,but why do you blush so ?'          " Do you know who.I have chosen as my sec-
"Did I?"                                 ond in command ?" asked Lord Villiers.
"Indeed, yourface tells the truth. So we are  " No  It is likely this Duke of Kent."
to have a Lady Astley to-morrow at the palace,  "No. Lord Astley."
as well as Lady Percy ?"                     " What, Guilford ! I am overjoyed. Do you
"I assure you, dear Jenny, it is a mistake. I hear, Lady Kate ? How does it please you ?"
do not know Lord Astley. I only was surprised  "Is it possible, my lords, that I have misun-
at the coincidence of a name."             derstood you all this time, and that Guilford
At this moment Red Hand, the tall and state- Graham and Lord Astley, of whom I hear so
ly earl, came in, and smiling upon his daughter, much, are one and the same person ?"
he asked Lady Kate if she had heard any news  "Yes; that is it," answered the earl, with a
from court that day in particular.         merry laugh. "And it is odd you are the last to
"No, my lord. I have not been out to-day."  know that Sir Guilford was this morning enno-
"Father I" exclaimed Lady Jane, " did you bled with the title of Earl of Astley, and the
not tell me that Lady Kate would probably rank of post captain in the navy."
marry Lord Astley to-morrow."                The joy and surprise of Lady Kate were ex-
" Yes, I think I did," replied the earl smiling. pressed rather by her tears than by her smiles,
"It is a mistake, my lord. I do not know though both struggled for the mastery on her
his lordship."                             happy face. She felt that her constancy, as well
"But are you not to be married to-morrow, as the self-sacrificing spirit of Guilford, had been
fair lady ?" asked Lord Villiersslily.    amply rewarded; and that after all she was to
" How did you hear this, my lord ?" she an- give her hand to a man her equal in rank every
swered, in beautiful confusion.            way, and one of the most popular men in the
" From Edward, who is an intimate friend of kingdom, who had the confidence of the king,
Guilford Graham, who told him, as a great se- the friendship of the nobility, and the respect of
cret, that-it was all arranged, and that you were the people. Well might she say, as she cast her-
to be married to him before the king'spresence, self into the arms of Lady Jane:
in Westminster to-morrow."                  "This is the happiest day.of my life 1"
"My lord, it is true;*but not to this Lord  The next day the palace was the centre of the
Astley."                                   thoughts of thousands and tens of thousands, of
"But suppose-no matter. I will not tell every rank and degree. The nobility flocked
what I see he has kept a secret. I wish you thither to banquet with the king and behold him
joy. You will have a husband so worthy in in state elevated upon his throne. The masses
Guilford Graham, fair Kate, that no nobility can came to see him pass in procession from the ban-
emulate hiren"                             quiet hall to Westminster, where the bridals
" Thanks, my good lord "                 were to take place.
" Ah, I know all your romantic loves. Guil-  At five o'clock the ceremony of the marriages-
ford, to whom I owed my life once, told me the commenced. First the handsome Earl of Percy
whole story; and a creditable one it was to you. led to the altar the lovely Lady Jane, daughter
But hither comes Earl Percy. So I will leave of Red Hand, Earl of Villiers. She was given
him to entertain you; for I have to attend on away by her father, and the beauty of the happy
the king."                                 pair made a lively impression of pleasure upon
" My lord," said the earl, as he entered, " Is it the vast assembly.
true that the king has appointed you com-    Next advanced Guilford, Earl of Astley, lead-
mander-in-chief and full admiral of the fleet ?"  ing by the hand the charming and constant La-
" Yes, Edward; he conferred the post upon dy Catharine. At the sight of this pair a mur-

9

I         ,

I


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN,

mur of approbation ran through the cathedral.
The history of Guilford was well known, and a
thousand eyes sought to rest on the face of one
who had risen from a humble fisher's boy to be
the confidant of his king and the peer of lords
of the realm. In height, in comeliness of air, in
commanding person, there was no high-born
baron of them all who were present who sur-
passed him.
The king himself gave away the bride, and at
the conclusion of the benediction by the venera-
ble Archbishop of Canterbury, the sacredness of
the place did not wholly suppress very animated
applauses and hearty wishes for their happiness.
We have now come to the close of our story.
For further information of events that followed
these times, our renders are referred to the pages
of history. As a romancer, we have taken but a
page out of its records, in which we have endeav-
ored to show that virtue, honor, probity and
courage, rightly directed by laudable ambition,
will bring a man to the highest pinnacle of his
wishes; and that to succeed in life, it is not
necessary to mark our path with guilt, or mar it
with dishonesty. The right will always come
right in the end, and ends sought through wrong
doings will prove evil instead of good.
If our readers should ever visit the little fish-
ing town of Brithelmstone, in Sussex, the ruins
of the Castle Vane may recall to their recollec-
tions this story. If they inquire for the descend-
ants of Lord Vane, they will be pointed to Astley

Castle, a mile in the interior, where lives the
present Earl of Astley, the lineal descendant of
Guilford Graham, the first earl of that name.
Over the gateway it will be seen that the arms
are a tower with two oars crossed, and the motto
"LOYAL EN TOUT."
At the foot of the ruins of Castle Vane is an
ancient stone cottage, which any one will tell
you, if you inquire, is "King Charles's cottage."
If you go to the door and ask why itis so called,
a stout fisherman in the yard mending his nets
will answer, that many a year ago, in "the old
Parliament times," the Prince Charles was hid
there one night before he got away across the
channel. If you ask the man his name, he will
tell you that it is Robin Rengivell, and that he is
a descendant, in the eighth generation, from
Robin and Anne Rengivell, who dwelt there in
the Parliament days, and Robin was one who
aided the king's escape.
If you go into the little graveyard, you will
see a sunken grave-stone in one corner, on which,
with difficulty, you may decipher as follows:
" Here lyeth ye body of Toby Digby, who
died fighting valiantly for his king and country
Peace to his ashes."
The descendants of Earl Red Hand are still
among the noblest of England's aristocracy, and
it is an inexplicable characteristic of the race
that every eldest son of the progressive genera-
tions is born with a distinct impress of a min-
iature red hand upon the inside of the left palm

THE END.
-j ~'i

, FROM GLEAS0N'S PICTORIAL DRAWING ROOM COMPANION.]
IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.
BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON.
1WO  persons, well mounted, were riding    " Yes, just over the hill yonder."
W    rsothe'little town of Kurbach. Both  " That being the case, it seems to me thatyou
ryoung wn             a             ought toknow what your neighbor Beman- does
were young, well formed, and apparentlyin good. for atto livelihood:' yu icmtne.Fo  "ersrnrsmlnef
circumstances. From their strong resemblance fo"~ lielio'o."sr.
it was easy to perceive that there was some rela-  ie- " don't work,sir"
tionship existing between them.  -"Don               wrk hi
" This must be a lonely place to live in," said "No person has ever seen him do any worry "
the eldest,, whom we will call Frederic Raymon. sic Then hes beamng ffots, supps.
"Lonely enough," replied his brother Hans. " Then he's a man of fortune, I suppose."
If I wished to turn hermit, I think I should  " Can't tell you ; he keeps his business all to
come here. But there are other parts of Kurn- himself."
bah more thickly populated than this. We are  "What character does he bear among you ?
inthe most broken, rugged, and uninhabited   "He is kind to all, and has been known to
part, noru                                 assist the poor in the neighborhood. He is
pI know.it; but 10k yonder; upon the most rather retired in his habits, and to tell you the
desolate spot of all stands the largest dwelling I truth, sir, we know but little about him."
have seen in Kurbac."                       " He is rather a mysterious personage, then
havIt is probably the residence of some peasant "That's it, sir, exactly."
who owns grounds the other side of the moun- " Has he any children ?"
tain," replied Hans.                          "One daughter."
" If he owns lands the other side of the moun- " Does he keep servants "
ta, why did he not build his house there?    " Only one."
Why should 'a human creature select such a     "Then there are only three persons who oc-
spot to pass his days on?"                  cupy that gloomy looking building.   Is the,
"That I know not; but here is an honest daughter young and fair      tf"
looking lad, let us ask him to solve our doubts."  "She is only seventeen, and the fairest maiden"
"6Agreed; young man, can you tell us 'hat in Kurnbach. All the young men who hive
person lives yonder in that large dwelling ?" seen her, have fallen desperately in love with
He is called George Beman," replied the lad., her"
What is his employment ?" asked Frederic.  " Then we must have a care that we do not
"I don't.know."                           get sight of her," said Hans, laughing.
"Do you not live here ?"                    "I'd advise you, to, sit, by pil mes,'ifot's
6

F

84

I

I


1

86

IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.

not likely she'll take a very great fancy to either sustained other severe injuries, and that if his
of you."                                  hurts healed well, and everything took the favor-
"Very flattering, indeed ! Perhaps you have able aspect, it would be impossible for him to
made an impression on the fair one's heart !"  resume his journey under several weeks.
" I dare say I might, but I don't think I shall  " Give yourself no uneasiness on that account,"
try," returned the peasant, gravely.       said Beman to Frederic, whom this intelligence
" Very cool, upon my word," said Hans.   affected considerably. " You can pursue your
The peasant went his way, and the brothers journey when it pleases you, and it shall be my
rode on.                                   care that he wants for nothing that can conduce
" Ialmost wish," added Hans, " that some ac- to his recovery."'
cident would happen, to throw me in the way of  Finding that his, presence could not in the
yonder churl's daughter."                 least facilitate the curative process, he resumed
Scarcely had Hans uttered the words, when his journey on the following morning.
his horse stumbled, and he was thrown forward  Hans awoke from a deep sleep, which had
over his head. Frederie hastened to dismount lasted nearly all day. The first object that met
and go to his relief. He found him ins asble, his gaze was the figure of a young female seated
and unable to stand when he raised hin from near his bed.
the ground. Sitting down beside him, and tak-  Hans rubbed his eyes to clear his vision, and
ing his head upon his knees, he chafed his tem- then took a second and longer look. The im-
ples and his hands, but he strove in vain to re- pressions which he received from this scrutiny
tore him to consciousness.                were most favorable to the lady in question,who
Finding that his efforts were useless, and that was wholly unconscious at that moment that she
he was losing time, he lifted his unfortunate was'the object of so much attention.
brother in his arms, and being a strong man,  "She's wondrous fair," said Hans to himself.
bore him, with little difficulty, towards the dwell- " I think I have never seen her equal. What
ing of George Beman.                       eyes ! what a face ! what a figure ! If my seek
"He cannot refuse to give me assistance under is not broken, I am certainly the most fortunate
circumstances like these, be he ever so churlish," of men."
said Frederic, as he toiled up the ascent toward Hans attempted to turn to get a better view of
the house.                                 his fair attendant. The effort produced so much
He knocked loudly on reaching the door. pain that he groaned heavily. The eyes of the
Thie summons was answered by a person so very maiden were instantly directed towards her pa-
different in his appearance from what he had tient, when seeing his attention so earnestly fixed
pictured, that for an instant he was unable to upon her, she reddened to the forehead, and
utter a word.                              looked confused.
The man who produced this unexpected as-   "You are the daughter of my kind host," I
tonishment was about thirty-eight years of age. presume," said Hans, driving the expression of
His features and bearing, so far from being for- pain from his features. "Do not be alarmed at
badding and churlish, were mild, open, and even my unmanly groans. I moved my arm ineau-
handsome.                                  tiously."
" An unfortunate occurrence has made me    "I fear you are dangerously injured, sir; can
intrude myself upon you in this unceremonious I serve you ?" asked the maiden, timidly,
manner," said Frederic.            -         " It was an awkward fall, but I trust my ill-
" Heaven forbid that I should refuse to render ness will not be of long duration. A littlewater,
all the flid in my power to the- distressed. Let if you please."
me relieve you of a portion of your burden. A  "Fairer hands never poured water for a mor-
fall, I perceive-frotn his horse, most likely- tal," said Hans to himself, as his gentle nura
bear him this way."                       filled a glass with the pure, sparkling beverage
Hans was soon deposited upon a couch, and first used by man.
receiving every attention, while the domestic was  "Thank you; I think I shall very soon be
despatched to the village for a surgeon. Under well."
thete kind attentions he soon recovered his con-  "Shall I call my father"
sciousness., When the surgeon arrived, it was  Before Hans had time to reply, the person
found that his arm had been broken, and he had spoken of entered the room.

IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.

87

" How fares my guest to-day ?" he asked, get my pain. Your gentle smiles have done
with a kindly smile.                       more for me than leech or medicament. You
" He is doing bettthan he deserves," said have become indispensable to, my happiness.
Hans, " and cannot be too grateful for such How can I go hence and see you no more."
eareful attention."                          Hans paused to recover himself, for his voice
" The debt of gratitude will not be great. had grown tremulous.
Some day I may take a notion to go into that "Must you go so soon, then ?" asked Iva, in
part of the country where you reside, and break a voice that betrayed more than she desired.
some of my bones, and then it will come all  " It must be thus. My hurts are quite well,
right; though you would in that event, no doubt, and I can find no excuse for intruding myself
be troubled with me longer, for being older, my upon you longer. But there is something of
flesh will not heal so readily as yours. It takes importance which I must communicate to you,
young blood, you know, to heal bruises, frac- before I bid you farewell. Iva, I love you."
tures and contusions speedily. But I forgot to Hans could get no further. He stopped and
introduce you to my daughter."            looked at his fair nurse ; she was weeping. Re-
"I shall never be sufficiently grateful to your assured, he sank upon his knees and kissed her
fair daughter," returned Hans, embarrassed, he hands. It was not long before he had wrung
knew not why.                             from her a timid confession of her love, and
" We all have duties to discharge to each other, when they parted they had pledged themselves
and I hope I and mine will not be the first to to eternal constancy and truth.
forget our responsibilitios in that respect," was  Hans now believed himself the most happy
the good natured reply.                   man in existence, and often found himself say-
Days passed on. As Hans's external wounds ing, "wivhat a fortunate thing that my horse
healed and grew less painful, he was conscious stumbled."
of internal inroads upon his heart, which threat-  A placid moonlight night followed this im-
ened to baffle all the arts of surgery and medi- portant event. Hans retired to his chamber, but
cie. The bright eyes and gentle smiles of Iva could not sleep. Putting on his clothes, he
had done their work; Hans was enthralled. So walked softly front the house. It seemed to him
far from wishing for a speedy cure of his broken that his room was not large enough to breathe in
bones, he heartily prayed that they might take since lie had become happy in the love of Iva.
their own time, and not force him to leave the  Taking the first path that he came to, lie soon
dwelling of George Beman too soon.        found himself in the shadow of some large trees,
It was with a feeling of disappointment that which he remembered often having looked out
he saw his wounds healing by the "first inten- upon during his illness.
tion"                                       Leaning against one of the sturdy trunks that
The time passed very pleasantly with our hero. had defied wind and storm so long, lie looked up
He had the happiness of seeing Iva every day, into the quiet sky. He had stood in a sort of
and of conversing with her. To his surprise he dreamy reverie for about the space of ten min-
found that the graces of her mind exceeded, if utes, when a sound like that produced by foot-
possible, the graces of her person.       steps caused him to glance hastily about him for
At length his wounds were healed, and there the cause of the disturbance. le saw distinctly
was no longer excuse for further delay. Be- a figure approaching by the same path lie had
lieving that his happiness was involved in the taken. As it advanced, and became more dis-
state of Iva's feelings towards him, he availed tinctly defined, against the shadowy objects
himself of the first opportunity to converse with around, he perceived that it was a female form.
her on the subject.                       That it was Iva, he could not doubt; but for
"Duty admonishes me that it is time for me what she could be abroad at such an hour, he
to leave this hospitable roof," he said with some could not guess. She kept on, and passed within
emotion. "To-morrow I shall leave you, but a few yards of him. She did not go far, but
once more before I depart, I would attempt to drawing her mantle closer about her, stood
express the grateful emotions which I feel. Iva, motionless.
you have been to me a ministering angel. The  " She waits for some one," said Hans to
sound of your footsteps in this room has been himself.
music to me. When you come and speak, I for-  It was not long before another figure was visi.

i


88

IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.

t
t
x
t
r
_,
E
i

IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.

89

ble. This one wore male attire, and approach-  " Has he gone ?" asked Iva, faintly, looking
ing Iva, embraced her, while Hans heard her)  vacantly into her father's face.
say :                                        " Yes, my girl, he has  e, and I would he
" Dear -  " the name did not reach him-  had never come among us.
" you have come at last. I feared I should not  " My father, say not'thus ; he has done me no
see you."                                  wrong. But I may not tell you all now. Prom-
"Nothing could have kept me from this meet- ise me that you will be silent on this subject.
ing, save sickness or death," replied the other; for the present."
and Hans imagined he saw him salute Iva's lips " I promise."
at the same time.                            We pass over an interval of one month.
The parties now walked away out of sight Hans had completed the object of his journey,
and hearing, leaving our hero transfixed with and was on his return home. He had abouthis
amazement, and pained to the heart. He walked person large sums of money, which had been
back to the dwelling he had left with such sen- paid him by the executor of a deceased uncle's
sations of happiness, changed in thought and in will. It was dark when he reached Kurnbach,
feature. All his air-castles had tumbled down, and not being well acquainted with the roads,
and grief, despair and indignation arose and lie soon lost his way, and became entangled in
filled their place. He sat down at hig window, a labyrinth of hills, valleys and mountains. At
and after the lapse of about an hour saw Iva length the moon came up, and he flattered him-
return.                                    self that he should be able to find his way again.
Hans threw himself upon his bed, without di-  While standing irresolute, as to what direc-
vesting himself of clothing, and passed the most tion would be a proper one, a man "suddenly
miserable night of his life. The idea seemed stepped from the roadside, and taking the horse
like a mockery of his misery, but for the life of by the bit, presented a pistol to the breast of
him he could not help exclaiming:          Hans, and demanded his money.
"How   unfortunate a thing that my horse   Hans Raymon was no coward, and felt rather
stumbled !"                                reluctant to part with his thalers.
It is thus that circumstances change our views " Let me pass !" he exclaimed, sternly. " I
and shape our thoughts.                    have no money to part with thus idly."
It was remarked in the morning, by Mr..Be-  " Your money !" thundered the robber. " Your
man, that Hans looked haggard and dispirited, money without delay, or I swear to you by all
as though lie had passed a bad night. He ate in that is sacred, I will shoot you through the
silence, and it was a gloomy breakfast to all. head !"
The horse, whose clumsiness had caused his   " I don't like the idea of giving my money
master so much suffering, was brought to. the without an equivalent," said Hans, pulling forth
door. Hans took an affectionate leave of his a well-filled purse. As he put the purse into the
kind entertainer. With one foot in the stirrup robber's hand, he bent forward to get a view of
lie turned to Iva, who stood very near him, and his face. He nearly fell -from his horse with
said in a low, reproachful voice :         surprise, when, as he did so, he recognized, as
Iva, farewell ! We meet no more, Last night he believed, the features of George Beman.
I saw you leave the house, and witnessed all-  Before Hans had recovered from the shock of
enough to prove your inconstancy."         the discovery, the robber had disappeared.
Before Iva had recovered from the surprise  Our hero sat like one stupified. - He forgot his
which these words occasioned, Hans Raymon loss; he ceased to lament his thalers; he thought
was dashing away at fearful speed; but before oily of the terrible secret he had discovered
he was out of sight,he heard a cry from the lips The words of the peasant lad were recalled:
of his fair but false one, and knew that she had "He don't work, sir. No person has ever seen
swooned.                                   him work since he has been among us."
George Beman took his daughter in his arms  "To-night's adventure accounts for it all.
and carried her in as tenderly as he had tended His work is done under the dark cover of night.
her in childhood.                          The lad was right ; 'he keeps his business all
" My poor child !" he said, kissing her fore- to himself,' in reality.. 0, that Iva's father
head. "I should have thought of this. But it should prove to be such a man, and that Iva
is too late, now ; the mischief is done."  herself should prove to be such a girl. How

r

i",r' as
' .f
i     r
r  !3 i (

IE

unfortunate that my horse did not break my moments, in order to collect his scattered and
neck when he threw me over his head !"     disturbed thoughts, for the calmness and cool-
Filled with these gloomy reflections, Hans ness of his late host astounded him. To meet a
suffered his horse to go forward, careless whither man who had just robbed him of a large sum of
he went ; for he was in that state of mind when money ; to meet him in his own house ; to have
life seems too bitter to be borne.        that man treat him with such perfect self-pos-
Three-quarters of an hour passed, in which he session, and apparent forgetfulness of what had
was conscious of nothing but misery; upon re- just transpired, presented human nature to him
covering himself at the expiration of that time, in a light so new, that he knew not how to act.
and looking about him, what was his surprise to He found his brother Frederic comfortably
find himself at Beman's door.             disposed of in a large easy-chair.
" Unlucky animal !" exclaimed Hans. " Your " I did not expect to find you here," said
tendency is always hither, and always wrong, Hans.
What new trouble have you brought me to      "I did not expect to be here," replied his
now l"                                    brother.
The dumb creature rubbed his nose against  " Our entertainer tells me you have been
his master's foot, without deigning any farther robbed," added Hans.
reply.                                      " Then he certainly tells you the truth. I
While Hans was making up his mind what to was met last night by some gentleman unknown
do, hetheard some one approaching. He turned to me, who, with a cocked pistol at my head told
in his saddle, and beheld no other than George me, ' stand and deliver!'"
Beman himself; apparently fatigued with travel, I attempted by a sudden effort to wrest the
and somewhat excited.                     pistol from his hand, but received for my good
" Ah, my friend Raymon, is it you? Why do intention a blow upon the head, which laid me
you sit in your saddle like a statue ? Dismount, senseless upon the earth. When I recovered, I
and enter," said Beman, in his usgal mild and found my horse near me, for it would seem that
kindly tones.                              the considerate highwayman had fastened the
" I lost my way," replied Hans, as calmly as animal to a tree, in order that I might be spared
he could, "and my horse has brought me hither the trouble of a long walk. I attempted to ride;
before I was aware of it. I did not mean to tax a sickly sensation crept over me, and I sank
your hospitality again so soon."          back overpowered and unconscious. The first
"No apologies, Mr. Raymon. " Your brother idea that dawned upon me after this, was, that
is already here. He reachedhere last night," was there were soft hands upon my head, and breath
the reply. .                               upon my face. I opened my eyes, and perceived
" He set out on his return one day in advance a female form beside me, and was fully con-
of me. But why this delay ?" asked Hans.  scious that some kind angel was striving to re-
" He was robbed on his way hither, last night, store me to sensibility."
and received some rough treatment thatrendered ".What looked she like ?' asked Hans, ear-
him unfit to go forward to-day," replied Beman, nestly.
in a tone of voice betraying no consciousness of " She greatly resembled the daughter of'our
guilt, or any embarrassment whatever.     host," replied Frederick, unconscious of the pain
" Cool !" thought Hans, "very cool !"   his words were inflicting.
He met Iva on the threshold. She recoiled a  " Go on, brother ! go on !" added Hans, im-
step when she sawhim,-but instantly recovering patiently.
her equanimity, extended herhand. Hans shook  "Well, the unknown female assisted me to
it coldly, and passed in. Upon scanning the- arise, making anxious inquiries in regard to the
features of Iva more closely, he was surprised extent of my injuries. She studiously kept he'r
and shocked at the clgange which he beheld, face concealed by a thick veil, the moment she
Her cheeks were very pale, and her eyes had lost perceived I was regaining my consciousness ;
their accustomed vivacity. Hans sighed audibly, consequently I saw her features but imperfectly.
but unconsciously; while Beman' regarded him but her voice was rich and musical, like the
with surprised and puzzled expression.  daughter of our host."
"Be kind enough to show me to my brother," Hans beat upon his breast, and paced the
said oar hero, wishing to be alone for a few floor like one distracted.


90                      IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.
" What ails you, Hans ? Why this perturba-  "Frederic, I entreat of you to be silent. I
tion ?"                                    will never consent that the father of the woman
"Go on ! you shall know all in good time." I have loved, and'still love, despite all that has
"The unknown female, with the mellow voice, transpired, be accused of such a crime. No;
and the face like Iva's, assisted me to mount ; let darkness and forgetfulness close over a trans-
she then showed me the way to George Beman's, action so foib and unfortunate."
and here you see I am, safe and sound, with the " Seek an interview with Iva," replied Frederic.
exception of a few bruises."               "But what would it avail? Nothing. It would
"And what became of your kind angel ?"   result in pain and mortification to both."
"She vanished."                            "It can produce nothing worse than the pres-
"Did you observe the face and figure of the ent state of suspense ; therefore I say, seek an
robber m"-interview wtth your false fair one."
"Let me consider; he was about the height  "It shall be so," answered Hans, after some
of our friend Beman, I should think, and the reflection.
more I recall his features and appearance, the  Firm in his resolve, and true to his purpose,
more striking does the comparison seem."   Hans soon stood in the presence of Beman and
"Fatal coincidence !" exclaimed Hans, bit. Iva.
terly. He then related all that had taken place  "For important reasons, I crave a few mo-
since they had parted, concealing nothing in re- ments' interview with your daughter," said Hans
lation to Iva and her want of faith, or of the to his host.
robbery, and his suspicions in relation to the " There can be no objection to such a repuect,"
author of the crime,                       he replied, and bowing, left the room.
"An unfortunate affair," said Frederic. "I A painful and embarrassing silence ensued;
must confess that there are just grounds of sus- it was finally broken by Hans.
picion in relation to Beman and his daughter."  " When I parted from you, Iva, I did not ex-
And it is that which distresses me more than pect to see you again so soon; but circumstan-
all. You know not how deeply I have loved the ens of a strange character have again thrown us
fair Iva. 0, Frederic, a disappointment like under the same roof. That I have suffered a
mine is hard to bear. Could I believe that she deep disappointment, you well know ; but I will
is innocent of all knowledge of her father's call- not reproach you. I sought not this interview
ing, it would deprive this last blow at my hap- for that purpose. I will remember you, Iva, as
piness of half its bitterness. , But the truth we remember dreams of happiness ; and this
comes home to me with overwhelming force- dream of mine has been as fleeting as any
George Beman is the robber, and his daughter dream, though it was sweet while it held me in its
is the female who aided you, and if the last be power. I would barter all my earthly posses.
true, then she cannot be ignorant of his occupa- sions to recall that dream for a single hour."
tion."                                       "Then shall it be recalled ?" said Iva, wiping
"That looks reasonable, but all may be made the tears from her dark eyes.
clear yet: a more tangled skein has been un-  "Never! never !" exclaimed Hans, in*accents
twisted," returned Frederic, in the vain hope of of despair. " I have not told you all-a darker
comforting his brother. "I hope it was not Iva page must yet be read. There have beefs two-
who assisted me, for I have thought of the fair two -robberies within the last twenty-four
stranger ever since, and I really begin to imagine hours." '
that I am in love."                         Iva's face grew pale as marble.
"Frederic, I shall leave Germany forever. I " Both these robberies have occurred in Kurn-
cannot remain longer amid the scenes of my. .bach."
disappointment. My property I leave in your  Iva wept aloud.
care, only requiring that you shall remit to  " I recognized the robber."
me such sums as I shall need to supply the every "Father of all! how can I exist ?" cried Iva.
day wants of life."                          " I have reasons for ,believing that you have
" No; it shall not be so. I am resolved what also seen the perpetrator of these crimes."
to do; I will accuse George Beman of robbery  " Good heavens ! you suspect my own father,
upon the highway ; and let him prove his inno- but I swear to you on my knees, and in thesight
cence if he can."                          of God, that he is innocent. Iva Beman never

IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.         91

knelt to human being before, but now she kneels
and begs of you to suspend your judgment for a
day, a single hour, even. There is a secret that
I may not divulge."
The sobs and tears of the beautiful leader
stopped her utterance. Taking her c~ld hands in
his, Hans wept, and let his tears fall upon them.
hI conjure you to tell the truth."
"I will, Hans; I am innocent, and my father
is also innocent. Had you not left me in such
cruel haste, I would have explained all. There
are some family matters," continued Iva, grow-
ing calmer, "which I would fain have kept a
secret; but I feel that the time has arrived when
I mst speak. You saw me go forth at night
and meet person unknown to you. That per-
son was a female in male attire-my father's
brother's child. And now comes the most pain-
ful part of my confession. My uncle and my
father were twin brothers. The resemblance
between them is so marked, that the oneis often
mistaken for the other. My grandfather was a
man of fortune. My father was his favorite
child, for the wayward habits of Kirl, the twin
brother, displeased him. Dying, my grandfather
left the bulk of his property to my father. From
that hour the tendency of Karl Beman wad
&amp;ownward. What his father left him was soon
squandered. My father' generously advanced
him large sums; but his kindness met with in
gratitude for its reward. My uncle married a
lovely woman, who lived just long enough to
see her husband penniless, and abandoned, an
her little daughter entering upon her fifth year
Karl loved his child, and my father himself hai
-attended to her education, and supplied all he
wants, though he has long ceased to be on inti
mate terms with my uncle. What has transpire
within the last twenty-four hours, leads me ti
lieve that he has added robbery to other sins
ttt I entreat of you not to bring him to justice
Lease to Heaven the punishment of his crimes.
"Ma yhe who reads men's thoughts forgiv
Ie for the wrong I have done you, Ira I" crlei
Mans, sinking on his knees.

" And may Heaven bless her for being a good
angel to me and mine," said a husky voice.
Hans looked up, and beheld the exact counter-
part of George Beman-and recognized in him
the man who had robbed him of his purse.
"This angel," continued the intruder, "has
told you the truth. I am the guilty man. Reck-
lessness, pride and poverty drove me to the
commission of the crime. I am guilty of only
two robberies, which I might never have con-
fessed, hadit not been for the sake of this fair
girl. I restore your money untouched ; for my
whole nature shrank from the thought of appro-
priating it to my own or my daughter's use. I
shall go to America, and it is probable I shall
see you no more. Iva, with ,you I leave the
most precious. of all earthly things-my only
child."
SKarl's voice grew tremulous, and he was
obliged to pause.
" My only child!1 Iva, you will be kind to her.
Conceal from her, as you value your soul's hap.
piness, the knowledge of her father's crime."
Karl Deman waited for no reply. He turned
on his heel and left the house to return no more.
As he passed out of the room, Hans saw Iva'!
a father put a well-filled purse into his hand, a
into his face a moment, and in a broken v6iti4
lsay.
"Farewell, Karl. God bless you."
" What a fortunate thing that my horse stu-
bled," said Hans to himself, on his weh"g
I night.
Frederic found that he was really in loveMi
s Karl's daughter, and that that love really had
r its birth at the moment she had assisted himU
- arise and mount his horse, on the night of the
d robbery. Therefore, when he exclaimed on A
o wedding day, " What a fortunate fall!1" the
reader will understand what he meant.
.   When Karl Beman was next heard from iM
" was serving with great credit in the Ameriees
e army.
Thus ends our tale, leaving all parties priW
perous and happy.

f l


THE VILLAGE GOSSIP.

"PROM GLEASON's PICTORIAL DRAWING ROOM COMPANION.J
THE VILLAGE GOSSIP:
@R, 'THEIESM                              lT~e
BY HARRIET N. HATHAWAY.
whE      STANWOOD, the character reach him, but he did not allow it long to dis-
with which our tale has principallyto do, turb the serenity of his mind, for he enjoyed
had for a few months officiated as pastor, over the secret consciousness of never having in any
quite a flourishing society, in the village of S-. one case meaningly failed of performing his
Though a young man of superior talents and duty, and he knew there were many of his charge
requirements, and a faithful follower of Him, who appreciated his strenuous labors and inces-
whose cause he had espoused, still, it was with sapt self-denial,, and with a hopeful spirit he
many misgivings 'that he entered for the first pursued the even tenor of his way, busting that
time upon the duties of his high and holy time would soften the acrimonious feelings that
a ling.                                   were indulged towards him.
Of course there were some, as in all societies,  Ere the expiration ofhis first year, it was well
wo were disposed to find failings in the young known among the villagers that Herman Stan-
preacher. One thought him quite too dressy, wood had plighted his troth to Mary Maurice,
another alleged that he laughed and chatted a sweet girl of nineteen years
altogether too freely with the young ladies at the  "It was passing strange," so said the ossipa
"sewing circle," while a third said he carried a "for there was Julia Lane, who too tie s
walking stick, not waith the staid, solemn de- much interest in church affairs, and was the life
butanor that was becoming one in his station, of the sewing circle, and Ann Hart, the untiring
but flourished it as spreeishly as your best city " tract distributor," who, besides, contributed
fop; and many other faults of like momentous freely to every benevolent object, and Miranda
import, which I will not stay to enumerate, lest grant, who wrote such beautiful sonnetsbon
I weary the patience of my reader. But though charity and its kindred virtues. 'Twas strange,
they did not come out openly against him, they very strange, that from among so many, he
were secretly dwelling upon these things, and' should select the young and unassuming Mary
magnifying each trifling omission or commission Maurice ; but really, there was no accounting
of their pastor, into something more reprehensi- for some people's oddities," and they sagely pre-
ble than it really was.  dicted that poor Mr. Stanwood, was about to
Occasionally a faint whisper of this would 11"marry in haste, to repent at his leisure."

'Twas true, Mary Maurice was just the un- thi
assuming person theyhad styled her; there was M
more practice than poetry in her everyday life, he
and in- the performance of her Christian duties ga
there was no needless or ostentatious show, but
her motto seemed to be, " Let not thy right hand G
know what thy left hand doeth." "
She found but little time to assist in the lead- he
ing objects of the day, confined as she was at 'ti
home by the care of her invalid mother, but to
many .of God's suffering children she had been st
as an angel of mercy, and many a widowed ro
mother's and orphaned child's heart had been th
made to rejoice through her instrumentality, and gi
indeed, she was admirably qualified to fill the ai
station to which she was looking forward.  h
As time sped on, the breach between-the vi
young pastor and a part of his flock, instead of
closing, seemedto widen, and so artful had been kstatw
several of his friends had joined them, and this, t
caused him unhappiness.                   d
Among the most zealous of his opponents, o
was Aunt Hetty, the village gossip, who delight- b
ed in slander and news-bearing, and any affairs I.
that did not relate to these, were looked upon as b
things of minor importance, as was plainly to be s
seen by the interior of her dwelling, where hern
breakfast table might be often seen standing till-
noon, and then, on her " dear Josey's " return
from his labor, he was obliged to content himself r
with what few cold bits he might chance to find,c
while she was going from house to house, vend-s
ing her "little talk'" by the wholesale.
The sewing circle had met on a Saturday
afternoon, as was their practice, and while the 1
rest of the company were plying their needles,
Mary Maurice was reading aloud to entertain
them.
" Excuse me for interrupting you, Mary," said
Ann Hart, who sat by the open window, "but I
see the 'village express '-the name by which
Aunt Hletty was familiarly known-coming
across the street, and she is looking up as though
she were coming here, and she has a world of
news to tell, for her mouth is wide open."
"The wicked, unprincipled creature !" said
Julia Lane, who, by the way, had had many a
spicy chat with the gossip, but did not care to-
have it known. " I think we had best give her to
understand that 'her room is much better than
her company,' if she comes in."
" Very true," said Mrs. Lane, looking up from
her sewing approvingly at her daughter. "I

ink that the best thing that can be done, is for
iss Maurice to continue her reading without
eding her, and we will all be very busily en-
ged with our work."
"0 , that will be too bad 1" exclaimed Eunice
rey, a merry, laughing-eyed girl of sixteen.-
I do love to hear the dear old soul talk about
r Josey, and what she ' took and told him,'
s so funny ; but here she is, at the door."
Creak, creak, creak, came Aunt Hetty up the
eps, and through the hall, and entering the -
om without ceremony, she threw herself upon
e first unoccupied chair, and taking off her
reen calash, laid it upon the floor by her side,
nd with the air of one quite at home, took her
andkerchief and commenced fanning  herself
violently, saying:
"La me, 'tis desperit rarm out if ye did but
:nowd it. 0, deary, what a wicked place this
orld is, aint it?" she continued, not appearing
o notice their evident disregard of her; "'tis
readfully so, dreadfully! Trewly the language
f the scriptur is verified, 'How has the fine gold
ecome dim.' Who would a' thought it, on him?
never liked him any tew well, though I wouldn't
leeve sich dreadful things on him, if I hadn't a'
eed um with my own eyes. Trewly, wicked-
ness stalks forth in high places. 0 dear, 0 dear,
what are we all coming tew ?"
Insensibly the book had fallen from Mary
Maurice's hand, and the greater part of the
company's eyes were fixed upon Aunt Hetty, as
she swayed to and fro on her seat, occasionally
groaning audibly.
"I don't know but it will be as well for you
to ask her, mother, what it is she alludes to, for
it is evident it is something more than common
from her appearance," said Julia Lane, in a
suppressed tone.
" Yes. daughter, under existing circumstances,
I think it will be," said Mrs. Lane, with an elon-
gated countenance. " What is it, Aunt Hetty,
that seems to trouble you so much "
" 0, the sin," said Aunt Hetty, " the unright-
eousness that there is on the airth ; 'tis truly sur-
prising; but before I begin my dreadful story,
July, take and git me a leetle drop o'-water,
for I feel kind o' fainty," she continued, glad of
an opportunity of tantalizing them for her cool
reception.
"'Tis most tew dreadful tew tell; but now I've
promised, I s'pose I must. Well, ye see as how
yisterday, I thought I'd take a go up to see Sally
Miller. Of course, you all knowd about her bein'

1~

93


94                           THE VILLAGE GOSSIP.
Sick? Well, arter stayin' there quite a while, to weight upon his spirits, and with a heavy heart
comfort the poor creatur, I took and started for he entered the desk. His face wore a haggard
home; and I hadn't got but a leetle way, afore expression, which did not escape the notice of
I seed a body ahead on me that looked jest like his hearers, for many an earnest and inquiring
the preacher. Well, I thought he walked mighty glance was cast upon him. His sermon was
curis ; fust he staggered one way, and then pronounced by all to be the poorest one he had
t'other. So I hurried as fast as ever I could, and ever preached, and of this fact he was well
when I got nigh enough, I found 'twas he for aware ; he knew that it was lacking in spirit and
sartin ; and true as the gospel is, when he got to energy, and as he proceeded, instead of warming
Sam Snell's rum shop, he took and went in there upon his subject, he felt more and more re
to get drink,-it couldn't be for nothin' else, for strained; but had one asked him why, he could
you all know he don't keep nothin' else in natur. have given no reason. I leave my reader te
8o I took an hid down behind the old butun'ood, judge if it were not the secret influence of mind
that's jest above there, so's to watch the pro- operating upon mind, that thus held the young
ceedins; and puty soon he come out, and I seed preacher's powers bound, as it were, by a magic
his face as plain as I seen yourn now ; and he spell. At the close of the services, as he bent
was mighty pale, and could hardly walk, he'd his steps homeward, he wondered why it was
took so much, poor thing ! and he sot down on that he had received no invitation to pass the
the bank, so's to git over it a leetle, and arter a hour of intermission at the houses of some of
few minutes he took and started for home, I a' his parishioners as he was wont. " Could it be
watchin' him all the time. I waited quite a spell, that it was all imagination that many looked
and then I ventured out, but he wan't nowhere coldly upon him, or was it really so?" were
to be seen ; so I took an' started for home, and I questions that he asked himself. In the after-
took and told my dear Josey 'bout it, ye know, noon the attendance was somewhat less than in
and I thought 'twas best for him to go and call the morning, a thing quite uncommon, but he
on the minister, when he'd eat his supper, and I consoled himself with the reflection that he had
took and told him so, and so he went arter Mr. done nothing to draw upon himself the censure
Williams-the good old soul-an' they went of the people, and after all, it might only be a
down there, and inquired for him; but he sent happen so. - He dreamed not of the storm that
um word that he couldn't see um, and then dear was brewing, and was soon to burst upon him.
Josey took and told um as howhe must, for'twas  The report had spread rapidly, and after eve-
on a marter of great importance; but as sure tis ning services the members of the official board
my name is Hitty, he refused um agin. 0, 'tis were requested to tarry forza few moments, and
dreadful, dreadful to think on! Truly, how has Aunt Hetty's story was duly rehearsed, and a
Jerusalum become a waste howlin' wilderness ; committee appointed to visit Mr. Snell, to in-
on'y to think on it ; and then the thing never'd quire into the truth of the statement.
been knowd if it hadn't bin for me ; but I aint  To their surprise, he asserted that he not only
told nobody but my dear Josey, and Mr. Wil- partook of intoxicating beverage while there,
liams, and you, and I aint a' goin tew ; 'tis tew but that he was "well corned," to use his own
awful tew tell. 0 deary ! what are we all a- expression, when he came in ; and his statement
coming' tew ? but I must be a-trottin' along; so was corroborated by a man who was present at
good day."                                 the time. There now seemed to be but little
Mary Maurice requested to be excused as chance of doubt as to the truth of the gossip's
soon as Aunt Hetty had left. It was evident to report. A meeting of the society was forthwith
all that she was deeply agitated, and while some announced, to be held on the ensuing Saturday,
felt warm sympathy for the young girl, there and at the hour designated the august assem-
were others who secretly rejoiced at the unfor. blage met.
tunate turn affairs had taken; even the friends  A silence of several moments ensued, wiich
of Herman feared that there was some founda- was at length broken by Deacon Goodman's
tion for Aunt Hetty's story.               clearing and hemming violently, the usual pre
The next morning was the Sabbath, and as monitory preparations for a long speech.
Herman wended his way to the place of wor.   " Wall," said he, rising slowly, and smoothing
skip although not a word of the gossip's story down his red hair, which he wore straight across
had reached his ear, he felt an indescribable his brows, r"wall, friends, I rise-hem-hem-

THE VILLAGE GOSSIP.                95

to speak of an affair of momentous importance pi
to all on us. We are brought to a critical pe- of
riod, perhaps more critical in many senses of the I
word, than any other within our remembrance- ri
hem-hem. Without doubt you all know what ti
I allewd to, and marters and things in gineral n
have transpire to make us conclude that the re- t
port about our minister is not totally without l
foundation; and now we have met to conclude a
what is best to be done in regard to this ex- I
ceedingly unfort'nate affair, and we hope that p
none will be slow in expressin' their opinion of b
this marter; and though there's much on my h
mind I'd like to say, I give place to some of my
brethren.. Brother . Hinds, what's your mind t
'bout this affair? I hope you'll express it freely,
and not be afeared of offendin' the people."
" Truly we ought not to be men-servers,"c
said Brother Hinds, rising with deep solemnity
depicted upon his countenance; " truly, we t
ought not to be, and as you all well know, Is
never did have no great opinion of our preacher.f
I never have liked him any too well since that
Sabbath he appeared out in that flaunting vestc
and a light coat-quite different from our good
old parson Moody, who used to wear his snuff-q
colored suit and white cravat, aluz tred jest so,
from year's end to year's end. But the dear
soul has gone to his rest, and we never shall see
his like, no, never," he continued, drawing his
handkerchief across his eyes. " But I fear I am
- occupying too much time, and in closing, I'll
speak right out what I think. I reely am
obleeged to believe every word of the story, and
think the quicker we dismiss him, the sooner."
" I agree with you there," said Mr. Silas Gree-
ley; "I've no opinion of our preacher, and I
think he aint none too good, and I've aluz
thought so. I can't think of nothin' but that
passage of scripter-Vanity of - vanities, saith
the preacher man, all is vanity-when I look at
him. I don't think there's much religion in
sporting a great bunch of gold watch-seals, now
I don't, and I told my Sukey as how I didn't,
the very fast time I iver seed him. I aint no
opinion of these new-fangled notions no how
you can fix it, I aint."
" I do not see, brethren," said an elderly, be-
nign looking gentleman, rising, "as you have
really brought anything of momentous import
against our young preacher, except the charge
that brought us together; and I, for one, am
disposed to regard it with some small degree of
leniency; for when have we had a more faithful

astor 4 Has he ever overlooked us in the hours
if our affliction ? Have his discourses been
asking in spirituality or depth? Has he ever
refused to assist the poor and needy? I admit
hat the fault brought against him is of a dark
ature, but then we are all more or less prone
o step aside from the path of duty ; therefore,
et us be lenient to our young and erring brother,
*nd instead of discarding him, assist him to rise.
The course we now pursue may be the turning
point with him. Say, are there not some of my
rethren who will join with me in saying, give
him one more trial ?"
"Do you think to get my consent to sit under
he preachin' of a drunkard ?" said Deacon
Goodman, fairly trembling with anger. "I
wont listen to his sinful pratin', not even for
one Sabbath; that's for sartin' !"
I will not stay to repeat more of the conversa-
tion, lest I trespass upon the patience of my
reader; but suffice it to say, that ere they sep-
arated, it was fully decided that the connection
between them and Herman Stanwood should be
dissolved.
Herman wondered why it was that he had re-
ceived so few calls during the week from his
parishioners, and as he bent his steps to the
dwelling of 'Squire Maurice, on Friday, he de-
termined in his mind to make some inquiries of
Mary, who, he felt sure, would tell him all she
knew of the affair. He was met at the door by the
'Squire, who coldly informed him that Mary was
not to be seen, and his visits henceforth could be
dispensed with. He could not have been more
surprised had the earth opened at his feet, and
with a bewildered and aching heart, he, hastily
returned to his apartment; but the longer he
mused upon the singularity of the affair, the
more dark and mysterious it seemed, and bow-
ing before Him who knoweth the secrets of all
hearts, he poured forth his full soul, and arose
refreshed and strengthened, fully prepared to
meet with resignation the worst that might be-
fall him.
On the ensuing Sabbath, as he entered his
desk, and his eye fell upon the deserted seats, he
was enabled to say, " Thy will, 0 Father, not
mine, be done ; I wait for thy bidding."
The story spread rapidly, and though there
were some who did not doubt his innocence,
there seemed to be no possible method of prov-
ing this, and in course of time, his connection
with the church was dissolved, and with aheavy
heart, he turned from the place that had become

ai -


THE VILLAGE GOSSIP.

endeared to him by many fond associations, to r
return to his father's roof, an altered man; for l
where now were the buoyant hopes which had f
inspired him on his arrival at L--? Allc
cruelly crushed by the fell breath of slander!
As the lumbering coach passed the dwelling of
'Squire Maurice, he cast his eyes towards theta
house, hoping to catch one parting glimpse ofV
Mary, but in this he was disappointed. If her
could have but heard from her lips the assurances
of her belief in his innocence, it would have been
as a cordial to his aching bosom; but he had
not seen her since the day her father requested.
him to discontinue his visits, nor had one word
from her reached his hearing; for 'Squire Mau-I
rice was a stern man, and had forbidden her inI
any way communicating, either by word or letter,
with the young ' scape-grace," as he termed him,
and poor Mary was obliged'to stifle all her sor-
rows within her own breast, and each day her
check grew paler and paler, and her step
heavier.
A new minister was called, to supply Her-
man's place-a benevolent and warm-hearted
man, and a devout Christian. The second year
of his labors witnessed a copious outpouring of
the spirit, and among the inquirers was Sam
Snell, who my reader will doubtless remember.
Many wondered what it was that kept him so
long out of the kingdom, for he seemed willing
to give up all,-but he and his Maker alone
viewed the hindering cause. It was not until
after many a painful struggle that he conquered
his pride sufficiently to request a private inter-
view with his pastor, and revealed to him the
part he took in the affairs of Herman Stanwood.
He freely admitted his innocence, stating that
when he came into his shop he was so faint that
it was with difficulty that he could support him-
self, and as he had nothing in the shop save ar-
dent spirits, lie urged it upon him ; that he re-
fused, but at length was induced to take it ; and
that he and his comrade had for some time owed
the young pastor a grudge for reproving them in
their evil courses, and they seized upon this
means to repay it, and, to his sorrow, it needed
not to be told how successful it had been.
Several months after the circumstance last

'elated, had one looked into Aunt Hetty's dwel-
ing, they might have seen her swaying to and
ro in her straight, high-backed chair, as was her
custom when deeply engaged in thought.
" Who'd ever thought it ?" she at length said,
'that parson Stanwood would ever a' come back
to preach to us agin. I raley think he's the for-
givinest man that ever was; and they aint done
none too much for him, to fix up the white cot-
tage in the lane and furnish it so smart and
tidy. It does my old heart good to look at Ma-
ry Maurice sense he's got back ; why, she looks
like another gal, and I took and told her so
t'other day, and how the sweet creetur blushed.
I raly think I was tew blame about spreading'
that story that made um send away poor Mr.
Stanwood ; and if the gal had pined herself to
death-an' I thought my soul she would-I
should a' felt awfully-awfully indeed ! I'm so
sorry 'bout it ; but it can't be helped now; but I
-guess the next time Hitty Mason gits caught so
aging will be a long spell from now. It's been a
good lesson, and truly, I am led to say, ' The
Lord's ways are a vast deal higher 'an ourn, an'
his thoughts are not as our'n are;' and it is for-
tunate 'tis so, for if 'twasn't, I'm sure I don't
know what on airth we should all come tew ;"
and here the old lady raised her glasses and
wiped her eyes. "Bless' me ! how's this ?" she
continued, " cryin' on sich a joyful occasion as
this ? I'm raley ashamed o' myself ; but while I
think, on it I'll run an' get that smart calico puff
I'm goin' to gin to Mary, and the nice thread
socks I've bin knittin' for the parson. Goodness
knows it took me long anuff to knit um; and
then I'll take and tell my dear Josey to take urn
along an' leave um to the white cottage as we
go up to the meetin' house. But hark ! what's
that? 'tis the bell a' ringing' for the weddin, and
deary, what a heap o' people are a' going. I'm
raley skeered, I'm so afeared I shall be late ; an'
I don't know who's got a better right to see Her-
man Stanwood and Mary Maurice married than
Aunt Hitty. If I hadn't took an' told Deacon
Goodman to git him back when I heerd how in-
nercent he was, mabby 'twould never a' taken
place, as I took and told my dear Josey."

96

-k

t
c
t
a
F
a
r
}
i.
F
t

I

[FROM GLEASON'S PICTORIAt DRAWING ROOM COMPANION.)
AVE MARIA.
BY MRS. R. M. CONKLIN,

. r«        }
}.  ,.i  5i
s         t    k
"
7
Y
i
1
1

Ave Maria, blest be the hour,--Byron,
Ave Maria, blest be the hour,
When first I heard that solemn strain
Float o'er my soul with holy power,
To callthe wanderer back again.
For years, amid the torrid seas,
I've scattered death with sword and fire
Till, one sweet night, upon the breeze
I heard thy strains, Ave Maria.
Then at my soul, hardened by sin,
The iron hand of conscience tore;
Unclosed, it ali was crime within,
I berft beneath the guilt I bore.
I strove, by crime, to drown the tones
That called me from my downward course;
But still in every breeze it moans,
Assisted by the fiend, remorse.
Ti vain! I cannot escape the cry,
The cry of blood oft shed by me;
Sin-burthened soul, where can I fly?
The corpse-cleft waters rise-and see-

The mountain fastness, earth's deep eaves,
The forest dense, wont shield my form;
And gibbering spirit from the waves
Shout "Murderer! canst thou bear the storm?"
Ye murdered ones, I cannot, no!
I shrink with fear, nor hope for grace;
But where, my crimes, where must we gof
Has earth for us no hiding-place?
No ! list ! on every passing gale,
In thunder tones, the answer given,
No hope for thee ! Wail, mortal ! wall!
No hope on earth, seek hope in heaven!
I will-to yonder shore I'll fly,
There, buried in yon cloistered pile,
Will raise to heaven an endless cry,
That grace on penitence may smile.
In sternest penance, earnest prayer,
My soul shall toil till death shall come ;
Then may I pass on evening air,
And Ave Maria waft me home.
Binghamton, N. Y., June, 1851.


BLUE-EYED JESSIE.                  99

[FROM GLEASON18 PICTORIAL DRAWING ROOM COMPANION.]
BLUE-EYED JESSIE.
BY MISS SARAN M. HOWE.

(NOME, Jessie, my darling," spoke the
mild voice of a pale, sad-looking lady,
to her sweet little blue-eyed daughter, " I wish
you to go to Mrs. Morton's, and see if she has
any more work for me, and tell her this is fin-
ished, but mother is too ill to carry it home her-
self, and therefore sent you."
" Yes, mother," replied the little girl, as she
carelessly threw a light sun-bonnet over her
brown curls, " but I mustn't stay,mother,must I"
"No, my daughter, I shall be lonely without
you, so be as quick as possible," answered Mrs.
Williams, sighing as she thought of her absent
husband, who had not entered his home for sev-
eral days. In her beautiful, blue-eyed daughter,
Jessie, she had endeavored to find consolation,
but the tears would come to her eyes whenever
she heard Jessie's oft-repeated question, " where
has father gone ?" and though she answered,
" he will be home presently, my dear," her heart
toldher it would be long crc he returned.
With a light heart and bounding step, Jessie
Williams left her mother's door, and proceeded
on her way to Mrs. Morton's stately dwelling.
She heeded not the gay trifles so gaudily dis-
played at the numerous shop windows, or the
gorgeous dress and proud manner of the many
people she passed, but kept steadily upon her
way, free-hearted and happy, and caring not for

the sneer of the crowd, which was often bestowed
upon her, notwithstanding they often said, "she
is very pretty indeed !"
At last her long and circuitous route was trav-
ersed, and she stood upon the steps of the
splendid mansion of Mrs. Morton. Her heart
beat quickly as she rang the bell, and she trem-
bled visibly as she awaited the answer of the
servant, to her question if Mrs. Morton was at
home. The girl remembered that her mistress
had said that " she was always at home to blue-
eyed Jessie." and she kindly bade her enter the
hall, and she would soon see the lady. A sweet
smile rested upon the face of Mrs. Morton as
the fair Jessie stood before her; for she was not
like the majority of the wealthy class, selfish and
cold-hearted, for, in earlier days, she had passed
through affliction's trying ordeal, and came out
bright and pure.
" Ah, Jessie," said she, " you have come a long
way for a little girl, and I think your mother
would not have permitted it had she been well.
She is not in her usual health, is she ?"
"No, she is quite feeble, and therefore sent mm
to return the articles she has lately finished, and
get her more work, if possible. If you have any
more to do. Mrs. Morton, mother would be
pleased to do it."
The lady hesitated, but in a moment replied:

" No, I have none now; but come again to-
morrow morning ; in the meantime, I will use
my influence to procure some from Mrs. Lawson,
for your mother, and I think I shall be success-
ful. Come to-morrow, Jessie."
"Yes, I will, and mother will be greatly
obliged to you for your kindness," answered the
little girl, as she turned to depart.
While Jessie Williams had been conversing
with Mrs. Morton, more than one person had
been looking for her return. When she passed
one of the many groups of people, that morning,
her beauty and the happy expression of her
countenance particularly interested a man com-
posing one of the company of idlers,-and turning
to a companion, he asked:
" Who is that little beauty ?"
"I b'lieve it's ';im Williams's daughter," was
the reply.
"What! is he in the city?"
" Yes, when he's anywhere."
" Will the girl return this way ?"
" When she goes home," answered the fellow,
turning away, as if the conversation was not
pleasing, at least, to him.
" I will speak to her, come what may," mur-
mured the first mentioned gentleman, at the
same time gazing far down the street, to ascer-
tain if Jessie was still in view. Then seating
himself where he could easily watch her coming,'
his mind soon reverted back to the sad memo-
ries of other years. Once a gentle sister stood
by his side, and he had loved her with a brother's
love-but she had gone, where, he knew not, or
that she was living or dead. The father, to
whom he had looked for advice and counsel,
sank beneath the weight of years and sorrow,'
into the grave, and the beloved mother soon fol-
lowed to her final rest. Though amply provided
with this world's wealth, still there was a long-
ing in the bosom of the son for something more-
for the companionship of some one whom lie
could trust and love, and upon whom he could
lavish the warm affections of his soul. Long did
he muse upon the events of other days, and dwell
upon their -memories, until his heart seemed
buried 'neath the sad and gloomy ruins of the
past. From these mournful reflections he was
roused by the appearance of Jessie, and hastily
rising, he made an effort to restore to his coun
tenance its wonted cheerful expression, although
his heart was far from happy. The next mo
meant a hand was laid upon Jessie's shoulder
and a kind voice said:

" What is your name, my sweet little girl?"
The large blue eyes of the child were raised
inquiringly to the face of the stranger, and not
until the question was repeated did she reply:
"Jessie Williams ; but they call me blue-eyed
Jessie."
" Jessie Williams!" repeated the stranger,
abstractedly; and again his mind went back
through the dim path of years to that fair-haired
sister, the pride of his earlier days.  Again
memory began to bind him with her silken
chains, but hastily recovering, he said to the
wondering girl:
"Is your home far from here, Jessie ?"
" But a short distance, sir," replied the child;
" it is on L- street."
" Will you allow me to accompany you there ?"
"Certainly, sir," answered Jessie; "folldw
me"
After following the girl through several streets,
the stranger entered a small, half-ruined build-
ing, whose only occupant was the pale mother
of Jessie, Mrs. Williams. She seemed surprised
at the appearance of a stranger, but with a sweet
smile she bade him enter, for she hopedhe might
bring intelligence of her husband, though she
feared it would be far from pleasing. By de-
grees he drew her into conversation, by asking
questions respecting Jessie, her education and
employment, until Mrs. Williams felt that though
he was a stranger, he seemed like a sincere
friend.
" I have a favor to ask of you, Mrs. Williams,"
said he, kindly, " and I hope you will not re-
fuse."
"1I shall not if it is reasonable, sir," answered
she, " and if you will name it, I will soon tell
you."
" I have taken a strange interest in you and
your daughter, Mrs. Williams, and I have a
great desire to know your former history. If it
be one of sorrow and suffering, then can I sym-
pathize with you; for grief has often been my
lot. Do not refuse my request, I beseech you."
l   The lady hesitated for a moment, and then
raising her head, she replied :
"Yes, I will tell you my early history, but it
is indeed a sad one. I should have said my
later yeats have been the saddest of my life, for
- my childhood was passed in sunshine and flow-
ers. I will be brief, for it calls up sad recol-
lections. Myself and my only brother were our
parents' darlings, and high hopes were enter-
tained of our future usefulness and worth, by


100                  BLUE-EYED JESSIE.

our fond friends. We grew from childhood to-
gether, happy in each other's society, and not
dreaming that'sorrow would ever be our por-
tion, until the dark cloud settled upon our path,
and separated us, I fear, forever. The son of a
neighboring gentleman won my affections; but
neither my parents nor brother would consent to
our union, as they said James Williams was a
profligate, reckless young man, and I should
never be his bride. For months I Was sullen
and unhappy ; but with earnest and oft-repeated
entreaties, my lover at last persuaded me to
leave the home of my father, and link my des-
tiny with his forever.
" Two years passed happily away. My hus-
band was all'a wife could wish, and a happier
home than ours it would be difficult to find.
Since I left my father's home, I had heard nought
of him, yet I regretted not the step I had taken,
for I was happy, and that sufficed. With a view
of bettering our worldly prospects, we removed
to the city, but alas ! it was the destruction of
our happiness. ~ My husband soon fell in com-
pany with the vicious and vile cf the city, by
whom he was persuaded to take occasionally a
glass; but it soon was found to be true that he
often drank without persuasion. His down-
ward course was then rapid. Many times have
I sat and awaited his coming until my head
and heart ached with grief and fear, and often
did I weep till my brow seemed bursting, but it
would not bring back the happy days of our
married life. Thus five years passed; my hus-
band still becoming worse, until I lost alb hope

of his reformation. The companionship of my
only child,-Jessie, has been my only solace, and
that she may never know my bitter misery, is
her sad mother's earnest prayer. My father and
mother have been laid to rest in the grave, and
my brother is-I know not where. Should it
please Heaven to take from me my gentle
daughter, life would be a burden not to be borne ;
but while she yet lives, I will live for her sake.
I have thus given you my history, briefly,,it is
true, but truthfully, and may it tell you how
much a woman can suffer and yet be strong."
For a few moments after she closed, a deep si-
lence reigned. Each seemed wrapped in thought,
when the stranger quickly rising, threw back the
dark locks from his brow, and advancing to Mrs.
Williams, said, in an impressive tone :
"Elsie, do you recognize me now ?"
She raised her head, and the only words
spoken, were:
"My brother!"
" My sister I"
Ten years have passed since the eventful day
on which the brother and sister were again united,
after long years of separation and suffering, and
happiness is again their portion. The white
cottage on the hill is the residence of James and
Elsie Williams, and their beautiful, blue-eyed
Jessie, now a blooming maiden of seventeen.
The father is a temperate and happy man, but
he persists in saying that he should have been
in a drunkard's grave, had it not been for the,
exertions of Elsie's brother and his own darling
" Blue-eyed Jessie "

THE END.

F


  
             
         
       
   
