
    ----CITATION----
        Sikes, William Wirt, (1836-1883). One Poor Girl .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7768
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            One poor girl 
            
               ONE POOR GIRL: THE STORY OF THOUSANDS. BY WIRT SIKES. "There is but a needle between them and infamy, and when that breaks, they . fall headlong into helL"   HENRY WARD BEECHER.  PHLADELPHA J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. 1869. i it   Entered, according to Act of Congress, intlt year 1869, by THE AUTHORS' UNION, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New-York.    PREFACE. - THE story of Susie Garland, in a condensed and unsatisfactory form, ran through seven issues of the Hearth and Home. When the editor of that paper applied to me for a story, I was very much pressed with other work, and really had not time to write one for him; but by writing in railroad cars, or wherever I could find opportunity, while traveling, I thought I might manage it. I therefore consented to write the story, simply because I wanted a good medium for the publication in fictitious form of certain facts and truths which I had long been diligently engaged in publishing in forms not fictitious. Through magazine and newspaper articles, and through lyceum lectures, I had found good channels of utter- ance; but I knew, that the Story was a channel through which 'T might reach many who would not be otherwise reached. But after  f I began to write the story, I found that the space allotted me was too small for my purpose; I could not do what I wished to do; and so I resolved to make this book. The story itself is now very much lengthened. Episodes in this poor girl's career, which I was compelled to dispose of in a para- graph, are now detailed in chapters; and in the journal of Ileysin- ger-which has no place in the original story--I have presented at length a great number of facts and truths bearing on this sphere of life, which were before either quite crowded out or only suggested. The work, in its present shape, is, in effect, two distinct books. Those who read for the sake of the story simply, will probably find more satisfaction by omitting to read any of the chapters headed "From Heysinger's Journal;" the narrative is complete without these chapters. But I should be sorry to have the general reader omit them, because they are the meat of the book. They are a   "           PREFAICE. literal reproduction of actual personal experience-chiefly my own- and are essentially true in every detail, in every incident and parti- cular. For that m,:tter, so is the story of Susie Garland-true in incidents and particulars-fictitious only in the arrangement of its events. And the story of this poor girl is enacted on the stage of real life in this metropolis every day throughout the year; and the curtain never falls on it, though the actors grow very weary of their work, and die in thousands. Three chapters of the book are constructed from articles which appeared originally in Putnam's and Harpers' magazines. The publishers of these magazines kindly permit me to use the articles in question--which have now been thoroughly rewritten, so as to meet the more advanced views and better knowledge of the author. THE AUTHORS' UNION, 264 Pearl street,         W. S. NEW-YORK, July I4, i869.    \   CONTENTS. CHAPTER I.           PAGN OVER THE PRECIPICE,  .  .  . .  . .  . .  .  7 CHAPTER II. "TOOTSBY," .  . .  . .  . .        X CHAPTER III. (FROM HEYSINGERkS JOURNAL.) TEN YEARS LATER-A RESOLUTION MADE, .    ..      17 t CHAPTER IV. "WAIT AND SEE," . ...    .  . .. 31 CHAPTER V, (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) THE NEW STUDIO-LOOKING OUT ON THE CITY AT NIGHT, .    27 CHAPTER VI. THE WORK-SHOP, .     .   . .          30 CHAPTER VII. ONE EMPLOYER OF POOR GIRLS,           *  36 CHAPTER VIII. "A MERE FANCY,"  ...    .  . .  .  ..  .   40 CHAPTER IX. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) THE BACK-LOG OF THE DEVIL'S FIRE-WHAT THE POLICEMAN SAID, 46 CHAPTER X. ALONE IN THE CITY, .  ..                49 1* 1,            c,/   iv           CONTEBNTS.                 1 CHAPTER XI.           .     : (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.)     PAGE    . : A NIGHT FOR SUICIDES-GROPINGS AFTER THE TRUTH, .    53 :!' CHAPTER XII.                 h THE DARK RIVER,      . .    . .       57     ^ CHAPTER XIII. BEFORE THE JUDGE,            . .  .  *  63    r^ J CHAPTER XIV.                 18 SLY ISAAC, . . .  . .  . .  .  . .  . .  . 67    i? CHAPTER XV. MRS. MOYNAHAN'S, .  . ..   .  . .         72    CHAPTER XVI. THE WORK AND THE WAGES,  .   .   i.  ... 77        ; .  CHAPTER XVII. L-. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) AMONG' THE POOR GIRLS--THE SKWING-GIRL ALICE-THE RASCALS WHO CHEAT,         . . . . .. 85           [S  CHAPTER .XVIII.  THE YAWNING GULF, .   .  .    .    . .  .97 CHAPTER XIX. HEYSINGER'S THEORY,  .   .      . . . .    103 CHAPTER XX. 1HE CHOICE WHCH WAS MADE,  . .    . ;    . , 1XO CHAPTER XXL  ' HE'S HER BROTHER,"   ...........          119 CHAPTER XXII. (FROM. HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) [HE POISON-BRBATHERS-LOIS-THE EVUR-RECURRING QUESTION, . 132   CONTENTS.             v CHAPTER XXIII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.)     PAGE RISTMAS NIGHT, .                   1 . . X33 CHAPTER XXIV. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) E PRETTY WAITER GIRLS-LOW LIFE IN BROADWAY-A MUSIC- CELLAR, . .  .  . .  .  .  .   .      36 CHAPTER XXV. E DEBT PAID, .   .  .  .  .   .       43 CHAPTER XXVI. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) YSINGER ADOPTS A DISGUISE-THE JEW RASCAL-ABOUT THE ISRAELITES, . ..  .  .  . .  . .  .49 CHAPTER XXVII. (FROM, HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) RE ABOUT THE JEWS,  . . . .  .i.   .     6l CHAPTER XXVIII.  iE'S NEW HOME,  .  .  .  ..   . .  .    I67    CHAPTER XXIX. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) )MAS-AN HOUR AND A HALF IN THE FIVE POINTS,  . *  " CHAPTER XXX (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.)              i "TAR AND HS SIRENS-TH HEBREW LAND-SHARK--FISHER'S ALLEY AND GOTHAM COURT,  . .  . .      *  79       : CHAPTER XXXI. "OVE HER SO WELL, SO WELL,"  . . ..  . .  .85: CHAPTER XXXII.  (FROM HEYSINGERBS JOURNAL.)             - DIRTY SPOON-A HUGE TENEMENT-MURDERER'S ALLEY--AMONG - THE ROUGHS-A SEWING-WOMAN'S HOME,  . .  ..   . 189   V1           CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXXIII.          PAGE MARCH WEATHER,  .   ...       . . I96 CHAPTER XXXIV. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) BILKER'S HOLE-A VERITABLE FAGIN-IN THE ATTIC-"O WONDER- FUL HUMANITY 1" . .            . .  . 200 CHAPTER XXXV. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) IN THE OLD BOWERY PIT-THE CRITICAL "GODS"-NEW-YORK RAG- TAGS,  . .  . .  .  . .  . .  .  ..   207 CHAPTER XXXVI. THE LAST RESOURCE, .         . . .      214 CHAPTER XXXVII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) PAWNBROKERS AND THEIR WAYS-THE LOAN AGENCY-THE CHEAP- JOHN,      . .    . .  . .   .  .  219 CHAPTER XXXVIIi. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) AMONG THE DRUNKARD-MAKERS-GERMAN, ENGLISH, AND AMERICAN "QUORING PLACES, . .  .   .  . .  . .  .225 CHAPTER XXXIX MLES MAKES A PROMSE, .  . .     * .... 233 CHAPTER XL. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) DE) BLAS--SUNDAY IN THE FIVE POINTS-THE CHLDREN'S SCHOOL-- THE CONTRAST AND THE LESSON, . .  . .  . .  . 236 CHAPTER XLI.                I "HOME!"      .     .  . .  . . .....   249 CHAPTER XLIL TURK CALLS HS MASTER,  .   .  .  . .      252    I   ONE POOR GIRL: TH E  STORY   OF  THOUSANDS. CHAPTER   I. OVER THE PRECIPICE. As you go up the river by railroad, leaving this noisy city behind you, but carrying noise with you all along the otherwise quiet river, you presently come into the presence of the Palisades. Tall, silent, and gloomy, standing there with their feet in deep water and their summit bare against the sky, 'they seem as separated from the busy world through which you go trundling noisily, as the Pyramids of Egypt. They are as void of present-day life, it seems to you, as the Sphinx, and upon their summit you fancy a barren land of rock and desert. - On a sunny September afternoon, a dozen years ago, a young man stood on the top of the Palisades, with his broad back turned to the east. From the villa-sprinkled eastern shore, one looking at the Palisades might have observed him-a speck against the blue sky. With his broad back to the river, he looked inward across the level land toward the west, his eyes ablaze with the enthusiasm of one of Nature's ardent lovers; ' .             .'*:   8        OiNE POOR GIRL. It was no land of rock- and desert, this--a broad ex, panse of undulating plain, with dusty red roads winding through a luxuriance of shrubbery, whose tints were deep- ening into the pomp of gold and scarlet, and which covered the landscape with a carpet of splendor, sweeping away to the 'feet of the hazy, far-off hills. Here and there quaint, olden farm-houses stood, half of- dull brown stone, half of duller wood, with windows creeping out on the high, sloping roofs, and reddening vines crawling and crowding to the chimney-tops. He stood surrounded by a grand silence, made more still by the occasional rattle of a wandering cow-bell, and the steady murmur of a brook which ran musically by. With his head uncovered, he breathed the deep, conscious breath of one who drank with glorious appetite this pure air, laden with dreamy odors of ripening grapes and dewy wood-mosses, and dying leaves and flowers. A large, black Newfoundland dog crouched at the man's feet, looking up in his master's face with lolling red tongue, as if wondering what the man saw in the distance to make his eyes kindle so. "This might be Arcadia," he said at last. The dog gave a short bark. "' Yes, Turk, it might be Arcadia; but if it were, we should not be here. That river down there is not more shut away from the sight of this plain than we should be, if it were Arcadia." The dog barked again and wagged his tail, as thus to say, My Arcadia is where you are, master. "How tranquil that picture is," he went on. "Yon- der great city never troubles us, with its turmoil, its noise, roar, rattle, and wickedness--crime, rags, suffering, and ' sorrow. Here in Arcadia we never fash ourselves about   "A QUIET, SAFE, EVENTLESS  LIFE."   9 the city. Do we, dog? Not a bit. Life glides on here with a current as joyous and gentle as that of this brook -now in the sunshine, now in the shadow, but always happy enough, always singing its way over the smooth stones which never fret its quiet life. Not an exciting life, to be sure. Few -ups and downs in Arcadia--little wick- edness-little fever. There is loving, no doubt, and marrying; there is planting and reaping; now and then merrymaking; but a smooth .tranquillity always, Turk. Old families, too--dating back to the haughty Dutch set- tlers who strode over here when the country was much as God left it-and have been correcting His edition ever since. It is not so very far back to date, after all-to those fiery, fat Dutch-but it is as blue blood as we have in the country, no doubt. As they are born-these Ar- cadians-so they live. Their lives run always in pleasant, narrow channels of respectability, where they can no more help running than the waters of that brook can  climb their banks and go astray, and fall into dissipation. A quiet, safe, eventless life, ending in eternity's broad ocean, where it is swallowed up, and we see no more of it. Just like that brook. Come, dog!" He went strolling along, switching off a thistle here and there with his stick, and singing as he went-singing with a jolly, mellow voice, the method of an artist, the careless ease of one who sings for love of it, and not for a lis- tener. Passing through a cluster of red-foliaged trees, he came suddenly upon a sight which made him stop short, while a curious expression-half awe, half drollery--came into his face as he said, "Ah! yes, and sometimes the brook goes over a precipice!"   IO         ON0E POOR  GIRL. The little brook had found its way to the edge of the towerinng cliff, and leaped over to the rocks far down- below. "It is not a rule in Arcadia," he said, as. he turned away--" it is not a rule in the quiet life of brooks or quiet farmer-folk, but still sometimes they do go over!"    CHAPTER   II. " TOOTSEY." HE turned into the dusty, red road, and began to walk with a quicker step toward the broad, burning sunset. He went on in the red glow of its splendor, kicking the particles of dry, red clay along the road into clouds which shone in the sunlight like gold-dust. In half an hour he swung open the gate of a farm-yard, and walked-toward the barn. A farmer in his shirt-sleeves was moving about in the semi-darkness of the barn, now in the light of the sun- shine as it streamed redly in across the seedy floor, now back into gloomy hay-crowded depths, emerging under a canopy of hay which he held on a fork over his head, and which he tipped over presently into the stall of a horse which whinnied and looked back at him. "Halloo, farmer!" A  cheery voice uttered this, as a broad-backed shadow stood in the barn-doorway. "Hullo!"The farmer emerged from the stall. "Oh! t's you, is it, Mr. Walker? How are ye?" The farmer, grinning broadly, offered a palm which vas promptly met with a hearty thwack. "Still going round the wheel, eh, farmer? Still climb- , ng the stairs? Still grinding?" "Waal, that's what you say, Mr. Walker," said the irmer, coming out into the open air. "You al'ays did 2-   12       9ONE POOR GIRL. talk that way. As fer wheels, I don't know about goin' round 'em-the only wheels on my place is waggin- wheels. And as fer stairs, thar an't nary stairs in this barn-'thout you call ladders stairs." "And how's the wife? and the little Tootsey? and the new baby?' "New -baby!" said the farmer, with a stare. "Well, I asked that question on general principles. It's over a year since I was here, you know. There is no new baby, then?" "No," said the farmer, " not in my house. We have enough to do to, keep Tootsey out o' mischief. She's the giddiest little creeter! Her mother was jest the same, though, when she was a leetle gal; and she's stiddy 'nough now. But come in and see 'em. They'll be glad to' see ye." They walked toward the house. A beautiful little girl came running out, with bright black eyes, and long curls of glossy hair, and cheeks of blushing rose, and lips of dewy ruby. "Here's Tootsey, Mr. Walker!" "' Why, how we have grown!" said Mr. Walker, taking the little girl in his arms. "We are almost a lady, aren't we, little Tootsey?" Tootsey made no other answer than to laugh merrily, with her arms around the man's neck. "You haven't forgotten me?" he asked. Tootsey shook her head in a vehement negative. "And have you got that kiss about you that you prom- ised to give me if I'd come back?" Tootsey made her mouth into a rosebud and offered it for immediate payment. Mrs. Garland let down her apron and smoothed it with ;  - T             ,   THE CHORD STR UCK.        I3 both hands, while her eyes bade the new-comer welcome. Hiswas a cheery young face, and since he first brought it into that quiet farm-house the year before, they had re- membered it as one remembers a pleasant song. In his fair-weather strolls in the country, this man rarely visited a fireside the second time. He feared to know human nature too well. He liked, in his mingling with the far- mer-folk in the autumn months, to view them as figures in an idyl. "One must not look too close at any thing in this world," he would say. "A beautiful painting, which you venture to smell of, may astonish you with revelations of varnish." But in this instance he had made an exception to his rule. He had carried back to the great city, the year before, many idyllic figures; but there was one which- in- terested him more closely than do any such mere pup- pets of poetic fancy. In the little Tootsey of the glossy curls and the deep velvet-black eyes something had reached a chord in his light, careless heart, never before struck. This little girl seemed to be to him something more than a mere lay-figure in a picture or a poem. She it was whose spirit (the spirits of the living haunt us just as do those of the dead) had led him back again to Far- mer Garland's home. They gathered on the porch after supper. The sun was down, but the air was clear and sultry. The amber light of a million stars fell through the trees across the i porch, where the great dog Turk slumbered on his paws, anld the farmer sat with his arm about his wife's waist, and the little girl rested on the knee of the wandering artist.    "       ONE0 POOR GIRL. "I said to my dog Turk," he spoke low in the hush of the half-light, " that Arcadia must be here. I think so mnore than ever, farmer, as I sit on your porch. Your lot is cast on a beautiful part of God's footstool; you are contented, even to the using of old-fangled tools and the farm-habits of your fathers; you married the girl of your choice-you are blessed with a beautiful child-and it is easy to believe that discontent never creeps in here." "Never," said the farmer. Tootsey moved uneasily on her seat, and looked so earnestly in the wanderer's eyes that he said, "4Say it aloud, iTootsey. Your eyes are eloquent, but I am not learned enough in their language." "You live in New-York?"Tootsey said. "Yes, I live there. It is my necessity. I am not made in the happy mould of rural content, little one. I wish I were. I wish I could live*always in the country, and never get the hot fever for city excitements in my blood. But I  can not help longing for the city after a little while enjoy- ing the beauty of the truly rural. Ypu are to be envied over me. The city is a great, hot, wicked, dangerous place. It swallows up its victims every day by thousands, little one. They go there to die. They go there to do worse than die-whirling in the giddy maielstrom of hell which men and women call pleasure. Here only is real plea- sure, little one-the pleasure which endures forever." "Yet-----should-like to see the great city," mur- mured Tootsey. "She's crazy after it, Mr. Walker," said the mother. "I'll have to take her to town one of these days." "Ah me!" sighed the wanderer, lifting Tootsey to the floor; "I have made a mistake. Arcadia is nQt here. I might have known it, too, so near Sodom!"   "YOU MAY NOT   EAR."      15 He arose and looked out on the night. Then he turn- ed to the group and said, "My little fancy is quite destroyed; and served it right, I had no business to come a second year to you. If I had never come again, I should'have carried in my heart forever the picture I saw here last year-a picture of perfect rural content and perfect happiness--this little girl here a little girl forever. Now-ah! how little is the wind that blows a seed." Then he told them about the brook; and they listened, half comprehending, but hushed by the music of his voice, the poetry, which had to them beauty if not significance. "Sometimes they do, go over the precipice," he went on. "No one expects to go over. Little Tootsey, listen to me. Yonder city is the relentless enemy of such as you. Innocence it hates. Virtue it studies to destroy. If you go there panoplied with wealth, it seeks to de- stroy you through luxury. If you go there naked by poverty, it has a thousand weapons with which to slay you. You may- not fear, you may not believe. How few girls there are who can be taught, save by cruel ex- perience, the perils which lie in their path where the crowds gather!" He looked silently out on the night again, gazing long at the far-off stars, the near-by world, here so beautiful. When he turned within, there were tears in his eyes. "Little girl," he said, " will you promise me some- . thing?" "Yes," said the child eagerly, her large black eyes looking up at him. He turned suddenly away. "Psha!"- he said, in an undertone; " of course she- will promise me, and forget her promise in a week. She 2*                 ji ',^    f '-'.;-   X6       ONEz POOR GIRL. is too little, too little; and after all, we never do learn but by experience. Till a child has burnt its fingers in the flame, no warning will teach it the truth that fire gives pain as well as warmth, scorches and kills as well as daz- zles the eye with its cheery glow." All-in that house were up next morning with the lark. "Good-by, farmer." -"Good-by, Mr. Walker. Come ag'in. We'll al'ays be glad tu see ye, sir." "My name is not Walker, Farmer Garland. I gave you that name as I give it to all whom I meet in these half-vagabondish strolls of mine. What does it matter to them? One name is as good as another-to forget; and when I, -walk, I am Walker. My name is George Hey- singer, and I am a sort of an artist. I giv:e you that name to remember." "I'll remember it." "Thank you, farmer. Come, dog." He trudged gayly down the red road, between the burning hedge-rows, singing as he went. Tootsey stood on the porch, watching him out of sight. ( He went in the direction of the city," she thought. -   CHAPTER III. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) TEN YEARS LATER-A RESOLUTION MADE. THRTY years old to-day! One score and ten.  I ought to feel old; but I don't. I find by reference to my journal for the year of grace 18--, that I recorded the same observation when I was-twenty. The ten years which stretch between twenty and thirty in a man's life do not seem very long. Perhaps that is because I have found them uneventful. At the end of- each decade I am resolved to take a careful retrospect of my life. I have kept a good jour- nal. If I ever achieve eminence in my art-but that is not probable-I will bequeath my journal to Miles, that he may write my biography. Sometimes I think I ought to have been a literary man, like Miles. Miles says he sometimes thinks he ought to have been an artist, like me. Yet he can't draw a straight line without a rule. No doubt when he sees the stuff I write in these pages, he will have as poor an opinion of my ability in literature as I have of his ability in art. I wonder if Miles is in the habit of surreptitiously paint- ing pictures of his life? What a ludicrous idea! Yet why should he not paint private pictures, when I write private sketches in my journal? When I submit these pages to him, so that he may edit them, and see what is worth ?   I8       ONE P'OOOR GIRL. printing in them, I am resolved that I will demand of him in return his private studies with the pencil, so that I may translate them to the life of canvas. Ten years ago I was in the habit of spending the Sep- tember weeks in tramping about the country like a vaga- bond. In that year, I remember, I went again to the same neighborhood I had visited the year previous. I called it Arcadia, up there--back of the Palisades. That little girl had a winning face. It haunts me to this day. I have never been to that spoiled Arcadia since. I wonder what has become of the little Tootsey. She was eight then, now she's eighteen. Old enough to be married. So many little girls do get married in this country! In these ten years I have painted many pictures, and sold them. I have won a decent competency. Some- times I have thought of marrying; but mother fills the place of a wife to me, in all the every-day duties of life; and perhaps I could find no woman who would make as pleasant a home for me as mother makes. Marriage is such a lottery; and the woman who should draw me on her ticket might not find me the prize mother thinks me. In the summers I go whither I choose, and mother don't object. A wife might object. Mother is quite content to be left at home alone for months, while I go to Europe or out West. A-wife might hint that a hus- band's duty was to cleave to his other half. Then I'd have either to take her along or stay at home, if I did a husband's duty. And what would a woman dco tagging at the heels of a wandering artist? In these ten summers I have made my tours with all a bachelor's -freedom. I have been thrice to, Europe, avoiding the great cities and the thronged thoroughfares   cAND THE tHEART?        19 of travel-tramping among the hedgerows, haunting old ruins, camping out by the borders of bright lakes. I have wandered up and down the Mississippi, leaving the boats when and where I would. I have steamed up through the great lakes to the giant of lakes, Superior, and loafed along its shores, shaking hands with Indians and miners, exploring forests and underground cities. I have crossed country to Minnesota, and followed a Red River train for days and nights. My journals record the stories of all these summers, and what the journals leave untold has been told upon canvas for the world's eye. This is the story of the last decade. It is not eventful; but it is full of such experience as ripens the mind-cul- tivates the artist in me. And the heart? The heart, I fear, has not been cultivated so well. I need to know my fellow-men better. How shall this be accomplished? "Society," it seems, does not answer my want. "So- ciety" is too conventional. There is too much sham there. The heart of "society " is covered with varnish- coat after coat. One can't get under it, at human nature's self. In the rural parts of this world I have found the way to simple human nature more direct and easy. Yet hu- man nature has not been my quest, when I have wandered, so much as external things--the things I could reproduce upon the canvas. It is not " society " life which will cultivate my better part, I fear. My winters have been passed in " society" to some light extent. It has never attracted me; and I feel I have not adorned it greatly, after- its own fashion. This summer-I am by the sea-shore. To-morrow I   20        ONE POORP GIRL. shall go back to the city. I am resolved to bring myself into closer relations with " poor humanity." I will look into the life of the town with more philosophic quest than I have ever done before. If I find little there to occupy my brushes, so much the fuller shall these pages be. ,   CHAPTER IV. "WAIT AND SEE." THE ten years which stretch between seven and seven- teen are as long as life. The girl of seventeen does not recognize herself in the child of seven. The journey from childhood to womanhood is longer than all the rest of the way to the grave. Susie Garland had forgotten that she was ever called "Tootsey." And what a world of event had- been crowded into these ten years for her! There had been boarding-school life. Farmer Garland would make a lady of his girl; and when (Susie being then fourteen) a great boarding-school had been erected behind the Palisades, and the new rail- road made the boarding-school a brief ride away moming and evening, Susie was sent there to be made a lady of. She was not, in sooth, made into a lady so wonderfully fine but that in " society " she would have seemed a very rustic rosebud; but to her father and mother she seemed a model of fashionable graces. She could dance; she could make a very low bow indeed, bending her knee in a proper manner; she could play some tunes on a piano; and she could utter "Noo savong day pum," and other similar uncouth sounds which are (in boarding- schools) supposed to be French. And Mrs. Garland was content to admire her wonderful, sweet Susie, and to wash the dishes, and attend to the baking, the churning, and   22       ONYE POOR GIRL. all the other duties of a mother. And Farmer Garland milked the cows, and plowed the fields, and pitchforked the hay as of yore. Susie learned so many ornamental things that there was no time to learn any thing useful; or, at least, if there was time, it did not seem to be exactly fitting that Susie should trouble herself about useful things. Her hands were as soft and white as-well, no, they were not as soft and white as those of Josephine Earl, whose father was a splen- did gentleman, living in a splendid house in Univer- sity Place, (a well-known centre of New-York fashion, Susie inferred at once,) and having a four-story grocery- store in Broad street; and Josephine was a great aristo- crat, very thin and tall, and with hands which Susie wor- shiped ini her heart of hearts. And in the ten years, besides the boarding-school, there had been a lover; but he was only the son of a neighbor- ing farmer, and Susie was ashamed of him. Fancy John Oaks dancing at the commencement reception! Susie let him go to the war without a pang, and he was killed; and for one whole day there were tears in her eyes, And in the ten years (to dwell no longer over lesser matters) the pretty farm had been sold for debt; and Far- mer Garland had died of a fever; and the mother, with such trifles as she had saved from the wreck, accepted a home in the house of her sister in New-York. The sister was sickly; Mrs. Garland was a competent housekeeper; her sister's husband-a liquor-seller, with a decent income from his sample-room--" hated a sick wife in a boarding- house," he said, and made Mrs. Garland welcome to hei own and her daughter's board and lodging in return for hei labors as housekeeper.             - This wonderful, beautiful city! Susie was never tired   ,V THE CITY.         23 of looking at it; and her mother--idolizing the child- left her free in the daytime to walk in the crowded ave- nue near which they had their home, and in the evening she often went with her into gayer streets; and once they took a Broadway stage and rode all the way down that marvel-crowded street and back again. It cost forty cents to take that trip, however, and the luxury was not to be repeated. But Susie saw all she could see of the city by walking out on pleasant days--" not further off than six streets,"' Mrs. Garland said, and Susie was not disobedient-and occasionally in the evenings going further with her mother, and on Sundays; and she learned to envy the fine ladies in their carriages, and the beautiful girls looking out of plate-glass windows on Fifth Avenue. One day she saw Josephine Earl rolling by, with a liveried groom on- the high seat in front of her. Susie ran for- ward a step or two and bowed, and then her face grew very red, and she stopped suddenly. Miss Earl's face was carved out of marble as she looked at this presuming girl from the country. One other thing happened in the ten years--in this last one of them. The wife of Jo White, the saloon-keeper, very quietly lay down and died one day; and at the end of the year he asked Mrs. Garland to marry him. She did so-not that she liked him, not that she even respected him, but she could not refuse him and remain his house- keeper; so, thinking only of Susie, and that thus she should provide her with a home, she married him. Susie was now as beautiful as an artist's beau-ideal of a healthy, ruddy, curly, red-lipped country girl. Jo White had treated Mrs. Garland with a certain degree of decency while she was his housekeeper, and he had a sick wife on whom to vent his humors. Now that he was 3 ,. \   24        ONAE POOR GIRL. married, he took a husband's privileges. One of these was the privilege of abusing her when he was drunk. He seldom got drunk in the daytime. It interfered with business-the business of making other men drunk. His hour of indulgence was after midnight. Regularly at twelve o'clock, like a methodical business man, he closed his liquor-saloon, got drunk, and went to bed to curse his wife for being a mother. "What's that cream-faced daughter of yours good for?" he bellowed. "Why don't she- go out and get work? She thinks her beauty will take care of her, I suppose. Why don't she make it se'rve her, then? Beauties are too plenty in New-York, for any woman to think she can live idle. A man need only go and stan' on a corner for five minutes to pick up a score as good-lookin' as she is." "Don't speak that way, Jo," said the mother; "I can't bear it. She's my only daughter. It's not her fault that she's pretty." "Shut up! I'll speak as I like. I'm not going to have her hanging on me for nothing. By ! she shall work, or I'll turn her out on the street some night." "Then I will go after her."' "Will you?" he roared; then struck her in the face a stinging blow that cut her lip against her teeth, so that it bled. Susie heard this, lying trembling in her bed. She had often heard him bellowing, but it usually ended in a drunken snore. When she heard the blow, and the little groan her mother uttered as the hard hand struck her mouth, Susie sprang up in her bed in the darkness, to rush into her mother's roorih. But she was afraid of White. She lay down atlast, sob- bing.   "YOU ARE GOING TO TEACH."'      25 Next morning he was sober, and ashamed of himself. At breakfast he loaded Susie's plate, but she would not eat. She was very pale, too. After breakfast, while her motjher was about the house- work, Susie went into the saloon and got the morning paper which White provided for his customers to read. She had often noticed the advertisements of situations wanted, helplwanted, etc. This morning she wrote upon a card the addresses of some of the advertisers, and put- ting on her bonnet andI shawl, went out to search for work. She was gone all day. Her mother was sorely fright- ened. But at night she returned. "O Susie! my child, where have you been?" "I have been after work, mother. I shall be able to earn enough to pay for my board, I hope. Tell him I am going to work. Perhaps he will be kinder to you." "Poor child! What work can you do?"And then it flashed across her that at the boarding-school Susie had learned, as per items in the quarterly bill, "Music, French, and Drawing." "Oh!" said she, "I know. You are going to teach." "Teach, mother? Teach what?" "The music-or the French, perhaps." Susie sighed and smiled, and shook her, head. "Oh! no, I can not teach!" She might have said, "I can not fly," and come no nearer or further from the truth. She could indeed no more teach the things she had learned so superficially and uselessly, than she could take wings like a bird and fly. "What then, Susie?" "I am going to work in a candy-shop, mother." "Child! what do you know about making candy?"   26       ONE POOR GIRL. "It's not that, mother. It is very easy work, and re quires no special wit. It is only cutting and packing fig paste. They showed me how it was done-I can do it. I shall be awkward at first, but after a while I shall be able to work fast. Then I shall earn something nice, They will pay me by the pound." "How much a pound?" -' A cent." "A cent a pound? Does it take long to pack a pound?" "At first, of course-till I get used to it. Some of the girls there earn three dollars a week." "Oh! Three dollars a week.- That would pay your board, Susie. Yet I don't like the idea of your going away to stay all day-I don't know where." "Oh! you can-come and see me once ill a while. It is quite a pleasant place, mother." When White was told about this, he laughed sneer- ingly. "He! he! Goin' to learn how, eh? All right-go it! She'll learn some :other tricks afore she's been there long." The mother turned pale. "What do you mean, Jo?" "O bother! Wait and see." \        ...'            ' '   CHAPTER V. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) THE NEW STUDIO--LOOKING OUT ON THE CITY AT NIGHT. AT last I am at home in my new studio. It is a queer place, up here. I am as' secluded from the world which has known me hitherto as if I were in another planet. The world will never find me here; yet I can look down upon the city from my eyrie, as if I really dwelt upon an overhanging globe. Even mother does not know of this eagle's nest of mine up in the clouds. I keep my other studio. There my friends can find me, in the day-time. At night I can come here-paint, if I like; but candle-light is a better light to write by than to paint by. I will do all my jour- nal-work here. It is the cupola of a seven-story building which was once a grand hotel. The man who built this hotel ruined himself in the speculation. It is not a good location for a first-class public-house, away down here by the river- side,' overlooking the vileness of Water street. The old building has long been empty of human life, save where, here and there among its long corridors, some poor strug- gling author, engraver, or civil engineer opens his door to an office. Too grand a building to be converted into a tenement-house, it is too remote from the main thorough- 3.   28       OtrE .POOR GIRL. fares of the business world to have much value as an of- fice-building. Yet because the rent is low, these poor devils have here and there rented offices. I have rented the cupola. It is spacious and airy- quite large enough for my uses. It exhilarates me to mount to it and look out upon the vast wilderness of housetops below. I can locate Wall street yonder. All that part of the town is in deep darkness at night-scarcely a light twinkling anywhere in it. Broadway is easily discernible in the darkness-a long stream. of brighter light than its neighbors show. Close by is Water street. I can look down upon it as if I were Asmodeus, hovering above in mid-air. Commerce has taken part of Water street for its own, but commerce is fast asleep at this hour. It is nearly midnight. Away yonder is the realm of Fifth-avenuedom. There "society " claims its own. Fair Helen is listening to her lover; elegant drawing-rooms are bright with gleaming lights, and sweet with the odors of exotics; music sounds; the dance goes round; Helen's diamonds sparkle, and her white breast heaves with the gay excitements of the hour. That is yonder-miles away; yet I see the lights. :Down here, close by, vice crawls like an unclean night-bird through the stinking streets. Coarse debauchery riots with loud noise. Brawny, pimpled women struggle in the arms of half-drunk sailors, whirling, to the piping of squeaky clarionet and discordant fiddle, in indecent dance. I hear them. I can not separate their noise from the other noises that come up in the subdued hum of the night-but I hear them; and the voice of weeping and wailing. It is a sort of hell down there. The imps are in human form--how much of human nature is' within, God alone knows. \ ,   A PRAYER.          29 Somewhere down there men are dying--women- are shrieking in travail-the sick are tossing on beds of torture. For all the innocent among them who suffer and are tempted, God have pitying care! In the midst of that reek-yes, where it is noisiest-I hear a prayer! Where sin and shame swagger and riot with hideous clamor, some one prays! Out of all that clamor I can distin- guish no words; but surely there is a prayer among the foul utterances that rise up heavenward, passing me where I sit. Who prays there? Some old maiin, perhaps, praying as life goes out. Some woman, some mother, bending above a dead child, all skin and bones-soul rent from body after days of strug- gle with cold and starvation. Some poor girl, virtuous, yet hungry; pure yet friendless; unsullied yet scarred with the mirks of ill-paid toil; innocent yet suffering more than most of the guilty suffer--at least in this world. I have had some glimpses of the life that is led by the suffering poor girl in this town. I shall look into this with special care, in the studies I have yet to make; for of all spectacles in this wicked world there is none other so grievous as that of innocence suffering torture.            \   CHAPTER VI. THE WORK-SHOP. SUSIE had not intended deceiving her mother when she said, "It is quite a pleasant place." On that first day of her visit to it, it seemed pleasant enough. It had been a sunny autumn day, and she -had seen nothing of the work-shop save what a hasty glance showed her, as she stood,by the overseer's desk. It was nearly dusk when she had found it, and at the lower part of the shop she saw only a group of-girls working. But this morning-the first morning of her new career-- it was raining dismally. The shop was two miles away from her home, but she was strong and fond of walking. She was up at six o'clock. White was still asleep, and no one was stirring. Her mother heard her, and got up, silently so as not to disturb him. "Susie!" "Yes, mother." "What are you up so early for, dear?" "I'm going to work-don't you know?" "Oh! yes," rubbing her eyes. "I forgot. Do you have to go so early?" "It is a long way to walk, mother." "Don't walk, dear. It i# raining. Here are six cents-you can ride in a car." Susie took the money, and put it in her pocket. "You must not go out without a cup of coffee, Susie.   "THERE, GET TO WORIK."      31 Such a raw morning! You'd better not go to-day. To- morrow will do as well, won't it?" "No, mother. He said I must be there at seven. I can walk there in an hour. There is no time for coffee. I'll just take some crackers in my bag, and eat them on the way. Good-by, dear mother." They kissed, and she was gone. "Dear, dear!" murmured Mrs. White, looking out after her, :' I ought to have made her eat something. I'll have breakfast ready for her to-morrow." "What in thunder is all that noise about?" roared White from the bed. "Wife!" She ran into the bedroom. "What you doin'?" he asked, glaring at her with red eyes. "I was helping Susie off, Jo. She has gone to her work this morning."  He cursed the girl, and bade his wife come to bed, then turned his back on her, and snored. Susie hWould not spend the six cents her mother had given her. It was too much money. She could walk. When she- got to the shop she was dripping, and her feet were quite wet. It was half-past seven o'clock. "Pretty time o' day, miss," said the overseer of the shop, scowling at her. "Is this the way you begin? There, get to work-I'll let you off this time." Susie grew pale with fright. She had never been spoken to in such a tone before in all her happy life-happy, at least, till she came to this great city. Wet as she was, she obeyed the motion of his hand; and paid close attention while one of the girls showed her how to pack the paste.   32       ONXE POOR GIRL. "Couldn't I dryr myself a little before I begin?" she said to the girl. "Hush!" whispered the girl, " they don't let you talk here. No, you can't dry yourself. There's never any fire. We're all of us wet, this morning." "Who's that gabbling?" roared the overseer from the other end of the room. -"Shut up! I'll clear out any girl that talks." It was very slow work. When the noon hour came, Susie had packed away fifteen pounds. "I have earned fifteen cents," she thought, as- she drew forth the crackers she had brought for her dinner. ' That will be thirty cents to-day. Thirty cents!" When going to the boarding-school, she remembered she had paid thirty cents a day for her railroad fare. The work was slower in the'afternoon. She only earned ten cents more. Night at last. Twenty-five cents for the day's w/rk; and every bone in her body seemed to ache with the nine hours she had been standing on her feet. It was still raining when she went out into the street- raining, and almost dark. She was giddy and weak. How could she walk home-that long two miles? The Seventh avenue car came tinkling along. She let it pass, and toiled on through the long, long streets. The darkness came down, and the lamplighter was going about among the lamps before she got home. Her mother was standing in the doorway, with a shawl over her head, sick with anxiety.       L ' My poor darling! have you come at last? I was getting frightened. You must get home before dark, dear. It is dangerous for you to be out in the streets at night." *,." ' ,          ' '   I          SATURDAY NIGHT.        33 "( Oh! no one will harm me, mother. And now I'm hoime, I feel quite well, too. And I have earned twenty- five cents to-day." "'Twenty-five cents!" "( But some of the girls earn twice as much as that." "Well, drink your tea, Susie." But she kept turning it over in her thoughts: "Twenty- five cents! A dollar and a half a week. Jo White drinks and smokes that, five times over, every day he lives. And he drives my girl out to this! I hate him!" Susie worked faithfully, day after day, growing nimbler of fingers all the time. On Saturday night, she was furnished with an order for one dollar and ninety cents--the amount of money she had earned during the week, she having begun on Tues- day morning. Doing as the other girls did, she presented her order at a desk in the store connected with the shop. A young dandy, with a feeble moustache and an eye- glass, presided at the desk. "You are a new girl?" he said, when she came up, his little eyes blazing through their glasses as he stared at her beautiful face. 'i Yes, sir." "Well, you'll wait till the last, you know." "Yes, sir." She drew back and waited. When they were all gone, he beckoned to her, and took her order. "Dollar ninety," he said aloud. "We have to keep back a dollar on the first week, you know," staring hard at her. "No, I didn't know," she said, coloring. "Never mind, my dear," he spoke in a wheedling o   34       ON0E POOR GIRL. tone; "I won't be hard on you, for, by Jove! you're devilish pretty. D'ye know it?" She blushed deeply, but said nothing. He handed her the money, and she hurried out. The dandy closed his desk and locked it hurriedly, and put on his hat. I'll be back in half an hour, Dennis," he said to -the porter as he passed out at the door. "Wait, will you?" "He's afther another, the dhirty little baste!" quoth Dennis. Susie presently felt some one touch her arm. She turned quickly, and saw the young man's eye-glasses. "Beg pardon, my dear," said he. "Hope I don't in- trood. I want to speak t'ye. That's against our rules what I done to-night, ye know. iI done that for yer p'ty face."  "Please let me go, sir!" for he held her by her shawl. "Half a minute7 There, I'll walk on with you. Now, say-I like your looks. I can be a friend to you, ye know. You'll starve on two dol's a week. If you like to have a friend, now, I can put a three-dollar bill on to your order every week, out of me own pocket-an' I'll do it, by Jove! if you'll tell me where you live." "H live with my mother," began Susie, gasping. "Oh! old woman be in the way, eh? Well, then, by Jove! I'll tell you where I live-an' you can come an' see me." Susie stood still, white as a sheet, her eyes full of indig- nant pain and amaze. The young man paused in some wonder. "If you ever address me again," she said, "I will ex- pose you to your employers. Let me go!" r  *,  .-   [BAFFLED.           35 She tore her shawl from his grasp, and hurried away, with a great terror at her heart. "Employers!" muttered the fop, gazing after her. "Well, I like that! We'll see about that, you little fool!" He turned back to the store. He was himself one of her employers!    CHAPTER VII. ONE EMPLOYER OF POOR GIRLS. WHEN Susie came to the shop the following Monday morning, the overseer said to her, "There, you needn't take off your things, young wo- man. I've orders to set you adrift." Susie, astonished and pained,.opened her lips to ask what her offense was, that she was so rudely discharged. "There now-say nothing. 'Tan't no use. Go on- I don't want any row with you. There's another girl in your place." She went down the stairs with bitter pain in her heart; What had she done? To be discharged from employment with harsh words was worse than to be driven with blows to work. It gave her a sense of guilt-yet she could not tell why. Her face burned with a feeling of shame. She had not heard the threat with which young Gan- der had followed her, when she repulsed his advances on Saturday night, and she did not connect her discharge with him. She glanced at the sign of the store, as she passed: "Felter & Gander," in gilt letters. , Gander stood in the doorway, picking his teeth. He had come down early this morning, on" purpose to catch that girl as she came out.   SUSIE A F AVORITE.       37 Hallo!" he said, feigning surprise. "Why, you're going away! What's up?" Susie hesitated, and looked at him. Surely he did not look like a very wicked man; and perhaps-yet no, she could not ask him why she had-been discharged. "That ill-mannered Peck hasn't been turnin' you off, has he?" said Gander. (Peck was the overseer's name.) "Yes," said Susie. "I don't know what for."' "The deuce he has!" said Gander in a blustering tone. "Hold on, little one. I'll see about that. Don't go. Come up stairs with me. Confound him, what does he turn you off for?" Susie followed him up into the shop. "Hallo, Peck!" said Gander, with a very emphatic wink to the overseer. "What's all this about? What's this girl turned off for? Eh? Well, you needn't answer. Take her back. That's enough." "Just as you say, sir," said Peck. "I had my orders fromI-- " "Never mind that," Gander interrupted. "You can go to work, little one. What's your name?" "Susan Garland." Well, go to work, Susie. Peck, give that girl the best payin' work in the house. D'ye hear?" "Yes, sir." Susie hardly knew whether to be glad or frightened; but she went to work; and that day she earned forty cents, for she was given a kind of work which she could do much more rapidly than that she had had before. The other girls were jealous; they looked at her askance, and drew down the corners of their mouths. Before he went down again, Gander slipped a quarter into Peck's hand.    38        OVNE POOR GIRL. "It's all right, Peck," he said. "I ordered her off, of course, but I changed my mind. Twig?" The men exchanged winks. That night when Susie left the shop, she was overtaken by Gander once more. "You see I can be a good friend to you, Miss Susie," he said, assuming a more respectful air than he had be- fore used. Susie was afraid again, but she said nothing. "All I ask is, that you'll be good-natured," said he; "I an't a man to harm a p'ty gal. How far off do'you live?" "Two miles, sir," said Susie., "Don't walk it, do you? What! The deuce you do! Why don't you ride? Here comes a car. Get in- I'll pay. I'll ride a ways with you. I'm agoin' up town myself." While he talked, Susie was tremblingly asking herself what she ought to do. Her instinctive girlish modesty had acted before; it still warned her, but she was so sad: and, after all, he had been kind to her that morning-and she had earned forty cents to-day--and surely there could be no harm in being a little bit grateful to him. The car stopped; he touched her arm-very lightly- and (the car conductor cried out, "Hurry up-can't wait!") she got in, and Gander sa t down by her. A  broad-backed man, with a full beard and piercing eyes, sat opposite. He observed this pair with interest-- the girl with her white, scared face, her plain dress, her wonderful beauty: the young man with his diamond pin, his eye-glass, his sickly moustache, and lavender kids. Gander chattered a good deal to his companion, who made no replies, heard what he said, but knew as little what he was saying  as if he had talked Greek. ,She kept asking herself if she was not almost homre.   DANGER.         39 "I never ride- much in these cars," he said. "They're rather low, you know, for us. I al'ays go up 'n a 'bus. Hanged if I ever see any body I know in these cars!" So he kept chattering. And when he said, "We better  get out here," Susie heard that,and started and looked    wildly about her. "Are we in Seventh avenue?" she asked. "Near enough. We can change cars here, you know." Susie was not well acquainted with the various lines of cars; she never rode in any of them; but she knew well enough that the Seventh avenue cars ran within a block of her home without change, and that they started from the Astor House. She knew then that she was in the wrong car. 3.  Bd"Let me get out!" she uttered, with white lips; and rose with excitement. Gander followed her out, as the car stopped. The broad-backed man got up and went out too. "Sometimes they go over a precipice," he muttered. i        -             , r   .  ,   CHAPTER VIII. "A MERE FANCY.) THEY were in Greene street. They might have been in London for all Susie knew. It was an utterly strange part of the city to her. "I must go to Seventh avenue," she said, trembling. "Yes,' said Gander. 'That's all right. I didn't know what car you wanted, you know. We just cross over this way two or three blocks, and get a Seventh avenue car. -It's pretty dark. Take my arm?" She ran off down the nearest street, without answering. He followed quickly, and caught her shawl. r "Hang it!" said he, " don't cut up that way. You'll get lost. You'll have a policeman haulin' you up." "No-no," she whispered, in vague terror. "Yes. They don't allow girls to cut around this part of the town. They'll think you've stole somethin' if you run. Now be decent, can't you? I'll show you the way all right. Come on!" He led her in the direction of Broadway. She did not know she was going directly away from the quarter she sought. Gander presently stopped before a tall, dark house, on one of the cross-streets. "Now, Susie," he said, "look 'ere. I offered to be your friend, and I mean it, I had you turned off from the shop myself." (Susie started.) "Yes, but I was   -A CRITICAL 4MOtIENT.      41 sorry for it after, and now I've took you back, and mean to do well by you. I've taken a great fancy to you, and if you are a sensible girl, you'll know which side your bread is buttered on. Now, here's where a friend of mine lives-a nice lady, who could help you in lots o' ways. I told her about you, and she wants to see you. We'll just stop in a few minutes, an' then I'll take you right over to Seventh avenue. Come!" He took hold of her arm again, but she drew back. The broad-backed man paused under a tree close by, in shadow. Gander did not observe him. "Don't cut up again now," said the young man. "Oh! let me go," moaned Susie. "Pshaw I now don't cut up, and get the police down on you. Do you know I can give you in charge and have you shut up in a cell all night?" "Mother!" uttered Susie, in a tone of suppressed terror. "Come on now. It's only a minute." He was half-dragging, half-pushing her up the stone steps of the house. You would have said it was a respect- able though rather sombre-looking dwelling-house, if you had passed it in the day-time, with a casual glance; but there was a trap in the middle of the door, and a gleam of light came out now; for an old woman with sinister eyes was cautiously peering out into the night through the iron bars which protected the trap. She recognized Gander, and had her hand on the door- knob, ready to open the door when the pair should have mounted the steps; but she gave a frightened start, and locked the door with a sharp click, as she saw a broad- backed man emerge from the shadow and go up to Gan- der and take him by the back of the neck with a compre- hensive grasp.   42        ONE POOR GIRL. "You dirty little cur! Let the girl go!" said the man. "Who are you?" Gander tried to bluster. Then he picked himself up out of a gutter, yelling, , Police!" It is usually a very harmless amusement to yell " police!" in the by-streets of New-York. "Where do you want to go, my poor girl?", asked $usie's rescuer. "Oh! I am so sorry I got in the car,' she said, crying. I thought it was a Seventh avenue car, and I was so "Do you live in Seventh avenue?" "Yes, sir--and oh! won't you please show me the way?" "Of course I will," he said; and how honest his voice sounded to her ears, after Gander's! She knew he would; and when he took her hand in his, and led her back the way she came, she felt like a little child led by a father. Yet he was not oldl enough to be her father. H- was thirty, and Susie was eighteen. - They presently stopped at a corner. "The Seventh avenue cars pass here," he said. "Is it far to walk?" asked Susie. "That depends on how far you go up the avenue," he replied cheerfully. "If you go to Fourteenth street, it is something less than a mile. If you go to Fifty-eighth street, it is something less than three miles. The avenue is two miles long. Now, do you knowhow far you are from home?" "Yes-and I-I can walk. Oh! I am so tired!" "Then you will ride," he said. When the car came tinkling along, he put Susie aboard, and said," Good-by to you," in such a hearty tone that     SAFE IN HER NEST.        43 she felt lonely after lihe was gone. She put her face against the car window, and looked out to catch a last glimpse of him. He was nowhere to be seen. Susie took out her purse, and counted her money. She had just fifteen cents. She had given the rest to her mother. She put back nine cents, and held the remaining six in her hand to pay the conductor. - "Please let me get out at Thirty-fifth street," she said, handing him the money. "That's all right," said the conductor, and did not take it. Susie wondered at this; but he did not repent of it, it seemed, for when he stopped the car at Thirty-fifth street, she still had the money in her hand. She got out. The car went on; and across the street the broad- backed man leaped from the front platform, and followed Susie at a distance. He saw her enter-her home, and then he said, "So she's safe in her nest-such as it is. A gin-mill," and he looked at it curiously; " where they grind men in lieu of commoner grain-grind them into dust, and when they are thoroughly ground, -they are good for nothing under the sun. So the sexton plants them against the resurrection harvest. Will they pay for the reaping? God knows." He stood long looking at the place. Susie Garland, in the house, was telling her mother the dreadful history of this dreadful day.         '. "My poor dear," said mother, "I don't know what will become of you. White gets crosser every day."' She did not say more. She had her story, too; but, mother-like she kept it to herself. Poor little Susie had     "       ONE POOR GIRL. enough to bear, she thought; and it would do no good to say that White had that day knocked her down, so that she lay senseless on the floor, she knew not how long; and that since then there had been a dull pain in her head which frightened her. "If I should be taken sick, Susie, I don't know what he would do." "You're not going to be sick, mother?" "Don't be frightened, dear. It's nothing, I dare say. And the man who put you on the car-his voice was so musical and gentle, you say." "I never heard such a voice before, mother; and yet it sounded like a voice I had heard before-it sounded familiar. That was curious. I'm sure I never saw the man before." "I was thinking to-day, Susie, about a young man who used to come to the farm when'you were little. Ah! those were peaceful, happy days!--not like these. He had such a voice as that. He told father to remember his name-George Heysinger; I have never forgotten it. He was very fond of you, Susie." "I don't remember, mother." "No, I suppose not. I was thinking about him to-day. If we could find him, he would be a friend to you, per' haps."     . He was outside that minute, still looking at the house. "I should like to have such a friend as that, mother," said Susie, with a sigh. "Jo White's sample-room," said Heysinger, as he turned away. "That may be worth remembering." He was in the habit of charging his memory with tsuch items as this; and in the girl he had saved from young   HEYSINGE R S THOUGHT.       45 Gander that night he saw a face which he meant to re- member, too. "It was curiously like that little Tootsey's face," he  said to himself. "Psha! a mere fancy. Ten to one she is by this time the wife of some honest farmer-boy up there on the Palisades. Next year I111 tramp that way, if I'm alive."   CHAPTER IX.. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) THE BACK-LOG OF THE DEVIL'S FIRE-WHAT THE POLICE MAN SAID. THE liquor-traffic is the back-log of the devil's fire that's clear. The fact stares me in the face everywhere I go. If it were possible to shut up every place in this city where liquor is retailed, the fire would burn low. But it is not possible; and there's an end of that. There are several modes of bringing about a millennium, but unfortunately they are all just as unfeasible as the cutting off of the devil's head. God works in his own way; the devil is never decapitated, and the millennium is afar off. Man must work by piecemeal-here a little, there a little. In the intervals of bread-getting, most men can find employment for their better part, if they will. Most men won't. I am studying the life of the poor working-girl day by day, or rather night by night, for the most of my explora- tions are made after dark. The subject fascinates me. The revelations are sickening. I shall defer the record a little. When I /.ave verified every fact and truth tho- roughly, then I w'ill write it here. Nothing shall be re- corded in these pages which would not bear the sifting of a Philadelphia lawyer. That truth about the liquor-traffic is proved clearly. 'It    THE FANCY DISSIPATED.     47 was trite enough before; but it is one thing to recognize a truth in the shape of a time-honored axiom; it is an- other thing to find it illustrated at every step of your pro- gress in unfrequented paths. Even that girl for whom I did a friendly turn to-night -and what a sweet, childlike face she had!-even she wast brought up in a gin-mill. I had a fancy that she looked like my little Arcadian of ten years ago. I was on my way home to dinner when I saw her sitting opposite, in the horse-car. Her face struck me like a memory. That was what made me ob- serve her more closely, and her companion afterward. It was fortunate, too; for otherwise I should not have fol- lowed them when they got out of the car. After knocking the fellow down, (he was trying to coax her into one of the thousand gates that lead down to hell, a straight road,) I placed her in a horse-car, and seeing her timidity, left her, and rode up on the front platform, till I saw her get out. I stood there so long that I was very late to dinner. How good-natured mother always is! It's fortunate I had no wife at home. I should have had to explain the cause of my offense. It is a grave offense for a husband to come late to dinner, no doubt. After dinner, I went back to "Jo White's sample-room." Precisely what I expected to learn by going back there, I should have been puzzled to tell. A policeman, who con- descended to look at me curiously, gave purpose to my errand. I asked him questions. His answers quite dissi- pated that absurd fancy of mine. Jo White had kept that sample-room on the corner for the past eight years, he be- lieved. This was a new beat to him, comparatively speak- ing, and he didn't know much about the man, beyond the 5   48       onrE POOR GIRL. fact that he lived in the rooms over his saloon, along witl his wife and a grown-up daughter. He knew nothing against the girl's character, except that she was decidedD good-looking. "That's against her," he said. Something of a philosopher, that policeman! I So much for that fancy.   CHAPTER X. ALONE IN THE CITY. SUSIE slept late the next morning. She had a vague purpose of seeking once more for work; but her heart grew sick at the thought of it. :When she arose, there was no one stirring in the kitchen. She made a fire, expecting every minute to be interrupted by the mother coming out of her bedroom. But the mother did not come. Jo White came instead. He came from out-doors, though-not from his bedroom. He had been off all night on a spree, and was like a tiger. His eyes were bloodshot, his walk unsteady, his voice husky and surly. "What you doin' here?" he said, glaring at her. "Where's that woman?" meaning his wife and her mother. "She isn't up yet," said Susie. "I'll get her up then," he said with a loud oath, and he banged open the bedroom-door and went in. The mother was aroused by the noise he made, and raised herself up on one elbow as he came in. "Oh! you're awake, are you, you lazybones? Get up, and get my breakfast. There's that brat of yours in the kitchen. Send her off, and get me something to eat." She dropped her head on the pillow, and pulled the quilt over her face. "Oh! you won't, won't you? You're going to hide from me, are you?. Well, I'll find you."   50       ONE POOR GIRL. He seized her by' the arm, and pulled her. ,Jo!" she whispered. "Don't, Jo! I'm sick." "Sick cats! Get up, I tell you. I had enough of one sick woman--I don't want another. Get up!" She did not stir. He grasped her by the throat. "Curse ye! I'll have no more sick women in my house. Pah! you're nothing but skin and bones. There's no fat on you." She writhed under his grasp. Oh! you are alive!" he said with his fierce sneer. Then he took her by both arms and dragged her to the floor. There she dropped like a dead thing. He seemed to be frightened at this. He looked askance at her, and went out. As he passed through the kitchen, Susie -stood there, with white, scared face and clasped hands, like a statue. "Go in and see what's the matter with her," he said, and passed into the saloon. His hands trembled so that the brandy-bottle rattled against the glass as he poured out a draught. The mother was quite helpless, and how Susie managed alone to get her into bed again was a marvel. She bathed the sick head with camphor, and chafed the sick hands; but the little she could do was not enough to put health into that ill-used frame. When Jo White realized that his wife was really sick -which was not till he grew sober--he sent for a doctor, with much growling. Before the week was out, Susie's mother died. a Oh! how can I bear it?" cried the poor girl, moaning, and 'wringing her hands. After the funeral, she came back to the house, and sat down like one benunmbed..   jf     TURNED INTO THE STREET AT NIGHT.    5I White came in toward night, and said, "If you're goin' to stay here, miss, you'll make yourself useful. I don't know what claim you've got on me; I an't your father." She arose and mechanically set about preparing a meal. She filled the teakettle and placed it on the fire, put some potatoes in the oven to bake, and, as she had seen her mother do, tore up some codfish and put it on the stove to stew. Then she sat down by the window and looked out. The darkness came down, and still she sat there in the same position, motionless and tearless, thinking of the dead mother in the ground. The potatoes burned to a crisp. The fish dried against the walls of the iron dish. The fire went out. About nine o'clock White came in. He was drunk. He stumbled over a chair, and swore like a pirate. "Where's my supper, you lazy pig? Curse you, you're just like your mother." He scratched a match and got a light. Susie was standing by her chair, white and motionless. "Faugh! -I'm sick of you," he said. "Well, what ails you? You an't a ghost, I suppose. What you been up to all this time? Where's my supper?" Then he saw that the fire was out, and there was noth- ing eatable on the cold stove. He turned on her like an enraged beast. "Come nowthis here settles your hash," he said. "Get out of my house. Clear! There's the door. Since you won't earn your livin' by takin' care of my house, you may go out and earn it easier. Come, scatter! There's the door."   52       ONVE POOR GIRL. He stood before her in the guise of embodied Woe. She had known him only as a, curse to her life. He had driven her out to that shop where she had been so wronged and outraged. -He had killed her mother by his brutal treatment. Every instinct of her nature made her fly from him. She hurried out into the damp, chilly night, and wan- dered off she knew not whither. He locked the door after her, and went back into his grog-shop to snarl over politics, and get more deeply drunk.   It *    *   CHAPTER- XI. CHAPTER -XI. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) A NIGHT -FOR SUICIDES--GROPINGS AFTER THE TRUTH. THS is dismal weather. The sky is black to--night. The lights of the town twinkle dimly down below there in the overhanging mist. Yonder rolls the black river. It is a night for suicides. What drives people to suicide? As a rule, crime drives them. I can not conceive of any man or woman-not in- sane-committing self murder, unless in some way goaded thereto by the stings of a guilty conscience. Yet a man who has force of character sufficient to carry him through a great crime-such as a murder, for example-is not the man to hang himself or cut his own throat; except, of course, when he is driven to the wall. In the cell of the condemned, suicide sometimes cheats the scaffold.; but that is a circumstance under which suicide has peculiar conditions. It is not so much the coward's effort at escape, as it is the last mad act of defiance to that Ne- mesis which has pursued him into the last corner. The murderer, shaking his rugged fist at incarnate Law, says, "I will trick you yet; this is all that remains to me; in -this I defy you to the last," and gashes his throat. It is the resort of cowardice in every other instance. It works only with the weakest natures. - Men who weakly betray a trust, and become the sufferers of remorse-they are the legitimate prey of the suicide monster. Women    54.       ONE POOR GIRL. who weakly surrender their virtue-these more than ally others swell the list of suicides. Two girls jumped into the East River last night. To-day their bodies were dragged forth, and with them another. All three were lost to virtue before they sought to destroy life. The post-mortem ex- amination told that story. It is a grave question whether any woman who seeks to kill herself because she has lost her virgin innocence is worth trying-to save. I think not. Such have not the force of character which is needed to work steadily to- ward reform. The labors of the Magdalen asylums-show that plainly. These gather in the traviatas who suffer the agonies of remorse-who have thoughts of killing themselves at times. The records show that they slide surely back into their old paths. They have not the strength to steadily do right. No woman who had the strength to do right would seek the easy escape of suicide. It is emphatically the refuge of demoralized powers, of weakness, imbecility of purpose. The crime of the fallen woman is emphatically the crime of weakness, too. That is why it and suicide go so- much together.  Of all the fields in which philanthropy would work, this is the most hopeless. The labors of the Magdalen asylums are almost utterly thrown away. And at what frightful expense they are conducted! Is it right .to waste effort and means in such futile endeavors? I can not believe it. Mary Magdalen is one of the most touchingly beautiful characters in history. It seems to me almost an offense against religion to call that a Magdalen asylum which labors with the -loathsome creatures of modern prostitu- tion. They Magdalens! Mary fell at the feet of the Saviour in bitter penitence of spirit, trailing her long hair   4.          THE STONE OF SISYHUS.      55 in the dust and wetting the Lord's feet with her tears. No reward was offered her. There was no committee of comfortable women to wait upon her at the house where she was carrying on this vile business, offering her a home and plenty to eat and wear if she would but consent to change her trade. If any young woman of the present day has ever come out of harlotdom of her own accord to kneel at the feet of Jesus and follow him, I have yet to hear of it. What then? Are we to cease all effort because these things are so? I confess I do not see the true course quite clearly; but this, at least, is clear--effort is wasted, shamefully wasted. All waste is shameful-none more so than the waste of charity. When I give a hundred dollars to a stalwart beggar whose only claim on my sympathy is that he is, af- flicted with chronic thirstiness, I do a gross wrong to the poor mother with a dozen babes, starving to death for want of my aid. The work accomplished by the charities which scour the haunts of riotous debauchery in search of objects of 'concern is a smaller work, in proportion to the efforts put forth and the money employed, than that of any other charity in the world. One at a time, with wearying labor and care-as one might dip spoonfuls of water from yon- der river--a few abandoned women are gathered under shelter, and out of their number it will be a wonder if every one do not slip back into her old paths. The whole work suggests nothing so much as the stone of Sisyphus. Backsliding is the rule in that direction; the exceptions are pitifully rare. God knows how gently I look on error-how tenderly I feel  56       ONz9 POOR GIRL. ness. But it is not a question of sympathy which I am endeavoring now to solve. It is a question of practical wisdom as regards the application of -means to ends with the best result.  For me, I incline every day more and more strongly to the adoption of a fixed rule of life in this regard, which shall read like this: GIVE WORTHLY. HELP INNOCENCE ,TO REMAIN IN- NOCENT. SEEK NOT TO BREATHE LIFE INTO THE CORPSE OF VIRTUE, WHLE ALL ABOUT YOU THE VIRTUE WHCH "VES IS GOING DOWN TO DEATH. My colors are crude as yet. God help me to find the beautiful harmony of truth therein!   CHAPTER XII. THE DARK RIVER.  "To the river! To the river!"This was Susie's wild thought as she hurried through the dreary streets. She knew where the river was, yet she did not take the direct course to it. 'She was dazed, giddy, half blind. Her eyes were wide open, strained wide, and she looked right on through the misty night, and saw nothing around her. She saw ad picture of the dark river washing solemnly against the wharves, lifting and falling -in whose depths death would be quick, and the way straight to where mother had gone. She saw only this; her-only thought was to reach it, and in one quick plunge to quench the fiery pain born of life-life in the great city to which she had looked with a child's dreaming fancy in the years when she had been happy on the old farm. "To the river!" But she went aimlessly on, passing gayly-lighted shops- hearing snatches of music here, bursts of merry laughter there-noting nothing. A hand pulled at her dress, and she' stopped and looked down. "Please, a penny I Please, a penny!" A little boy, bare-headed, with blue lips and red, chap- ped hands-barefooted, ragged-a hand outstretched. "Who are you?"   58       ONE POOR GIRL. She spoke as one in a dream. He answered as one keenly awake to the physical needs of life, with a whim- per: "Please, a penny! I'm hungry, please." "Where do you live?" "I don't know. I an't got no home now." "You had one?" "Yes-away off. Father's dead." "How old are you?" "I don't know. Please, a penny." She' tore her dress from his grasp and hurried on. Common grief is sympathetic; the sorrow that weeps can feel for another's sorrow; but such despair as this is pitiless. She had nothing to give-true; but she did not think of giving. She asked those questions with the searching eagerness of one who sees a terrible shape, and questions it to hear it confirm the truth that the city is one vast haunt of suffering and wrong. Further on, another shape crossed her vision with out- stretched palm-another voice caught her ear with a prayer. "Please, ma'am, wud ye be so good as t' help a poor lame man wat's lost the use of his limbs, ma'am?" "Areyou hungry, too?" "Sure, ma'am, not a bit or a sup has crossed me mouth the day, an' it's sick I am wid it!" "But you are a man!" "Sure, ma'am, that's no sarvtie to me whin I'm out o' the use o' me limbs. An' fer a few cints I'll ask down blessin's on your purty face, ma'am. "Do you hate this wicked city?" "Oh! don't I wisht I was out on it! It's crushin' me it is."'   EYES OF AGONY.        ,59 She hurried along, leaving him empty-handed. "Arrah, bad luck to ye for a shtreet-walker,;" he growl- ed; " wid yer pockets full o' gowld, an' me that thirsty!" She turned a corner. This was a brighter street. She half began to take note of her whereabouts-to walk more slowly, and doubt if this was the way to the river. Again she paused. This shape which confronted her had neither whimpering voice nor outstretched palm; it had two eyes which looked out with agony in them from a face whose soft bloom was yet but little brushed away by the touch of vice. Without a word of salutation there in the night, as these girls passed each other slowly their eyes met, and they turned about as if drawn together by a look, and stood facing each other. "Well," said Susie, " you don't beg!" "Ha! beg?"And the girl laughed bitterly. "Do I look like a beggar?" "Your eyes beg. What is it you want?" "What I'll never find in this world." Again she laugh- ed-the dreadful laugh that has no soul. , What are you on the street for?" said she. "Where are you going?" "To the river!" "No, no, no! don't do that!"The girl caught Susie's dress in her hands. "You mustn't kill yourself!" "What is better?" asked Susie. "Do you love life in this great city?"            ,  "Ah! I hate it. But ist live. It is for my mother-- my blind old mother. I can not see her starve." "My mother is dead. You won't go with me?" "Where to?" "To the river! It is close by. I know the way. Come!"   60       ONE POOR GIRL. She took the girl's hand; but with a scream the fright- ened creature tore it away, and Susie went on. She turned the next corner, into a gloomy street at whose foot the river swashed. Thle girl she had left began to cry, and wring her hands, and look about for an officer. A broad-backed man, with a large black dog trotting at his heels, crossed the street and asked her what the matter was. "Oh! follow her!" said the girl. "Who?" "That girl-I don't know her name--she tried to make me go and jump into the river with her. She went down that street." The man was off without a word, with a long, swinging run, the dog following. She had reached the wharf before they overtook her. Heysinger saw her figure in the distance, and knew he could not overtake her in time. "Turk!"He stooped quickly and took the dog by the head. "See that woman yonder. Fetch her! Quick, dog!" Turk was off with a furious run, as if he had been shot from a sling. "Ah heaven! there, she's gone!" cried Heysinger, running after. Yes, with her arms upstretg / to the black skies, she had plunged into the blackernver and sunk in its wa. ters. She rose to the surface, and instantly her hair was seized and she was dragged by the dog toward the wharf. In the deep darkness, at peril of his life, Heysiqger clambered down the wharfside, clinging to a ship's rope,   IN THE HANDS OF THE POLICE.     6l and grasped her. Then he bore her up to a safe place above. "Police!" he cried with a voice like a trumpet. "Po- lice! Well done, dog. Police! Good Turk, you shall have a rare bone. Police!" There was a sound of steps. "Ah! you're coming, are you? That's worth an item." "Hallo, here! what's all this row?" blustered the offi- cer, running up with ready club, and showing a light. "A trifle, good Bobby! Only another life nearly put out. I make too much noise for you, do I? Well, -I bellow, that way for my lungs' sake. That way I call your kind-you never bear otherwise. When I call this fellow, I say, ' Come, dog,' and he comes. I think better of him than of many a dog that goes on two legs, I promise you." "You better hold yer tongue, that's what you better do," said the policeman, " er I'll lock yer up." "Don't occupy yourself with your dignity, my good fellow-here's a job for you. I've done my share; I sup- pose you know yours." Susie uttered a moan. The officer flashed his light in her face. Heysinger stepped back two paces, startled no little. "So!" he muttered. "Over the precipice already! She has only gone the way of her sisters. They sin, and then they jump into the river, and if they sink, they sink; but if they are saved bllamebody's good dog, why then they live.  But theylllr climb the precipice again. Poor little Tootsey Garland! Thank God, that was a fancy! I might have known it, though: out of poems and romances, lives don't cross each other so curiously." Another officer had come up, and they were lifting her to her feet.    62       O. NE POOR GIRL, "Well, I'm off," said Heysinger. "Here's my card, officer, in case I'm wanted about this. Come, dog." He went off humming a sad tune out of La Traviata. "' If girls will go to the bad," he said, " there is no help for it. If a man chooses to occupy himself with spilled milk, he wastes his tears. If one can find the stream be- fore it has gone over, with God's good help one may change the course of it, but once over the precipice-bah! I'll never wet- my fingers trying to coax water up-hill!"   CHAPTER XIII. BEFORE THE JUDGE. WHEN Susie heard the click of a lock behind her, that sound roused her from the stupor into which she had fal- len, and she flew at the bars of the iron door and grasped them with trembling hands. Prison! The thought thrilled through her drenched frame like fire. What crime had she committed that she should be locked up in prison? She uttered a piercing scream, gazing wildly out at the grated opening in the door. "Come now, young woman!" a surly voice fell on her ear, and a forbidding face showed itself at the cell-door. "Cut that! You've made trouble enough fer one night. If yer don't keep quiet, I'll put the bracelets on yer." "Oh!" she cried, "let me out! Please let me out! I will be good; indeed I will. What-did I do? Why am I shut up in this place?" "Be quiet, I tell yer! When your sort goes a jumpin' into the river that way, iWs servin' you better'n you deserve to hook you out. You IAt much good, you an't." She drew back, covering her eyes with her hands. Was it a crime to want to die? How would she be punished for it? Oh! to be let out into the open air again! She went to the grate once more and moaned through the bars, in a low, pleading voice, to the man whom she 6* "       ONE POOR GIRL. could not see, now that he had gone back to his seat by the stove, but whom she knew could hear her. "If you will please to let me out," she said very soft and low, "I will never do such a thing again-never! I will work my fingers to the bone for bread to eat, and I will try so hard not to die! If you will let me out, I will be good, I will be good! I only want to breathe the free air--this place stifles me! Will you let me out?" The man said nothing. "Did you hear me?" she said, in a plaintive, frightened voice. "Man?" "Dry up!" said the man. ( I will be good if you will let me out." "Be quiet, can't you? Why, what an uncomfortable party you are! It an't no good talkin' to me; talk to the judge in the mornin'. Go to sleep and be quiet." She stood there by the door all night, grasping the grate with her hands, but speaking no more. She was to meet the judge. She drew a picture of the dread tribunal, of the solemn judge in his robes, of the awful hush of the court-room, and framed her plea for liberty. She would address him thus and thus, she would promise this and this; she would beg so hard for freedom, and promise, so faithfully to be good, that the grave magistrate: would wave his hand and say to her,." Go, you are forgiven!" They took her before the judge in the morning, one of a rude rabble of drunkards, thieves, and harlots, the scourings of the streets the night before. He was a little, tow-headed man, with a paper shirt- collar and a squint, whose tongue was thick, and whose manner of dealing with the culprits before him was that   JUDICIAL DIGNITY.       65 of an auctioneer anxious to get his wares off his hands at any sacrifice. Susie's turn came. "What's this woman be'n doin'?" "Attempted suicide, yer honor." "What's your name?" (To her.) ' My name!" (Oh! to have to mention the name her mother had given her in such a place as this!) "My name!" ' What's she be'n doin'? Who brings the charge? Let her go! Call the next!" He refreshed himself with a chew of tobacco, and put down the tobacco-box on the auction-block in front of him with a rap like an auctioneer's hammer. The examination was over. An officer took Susie by the arm, and led her into the open air. "Go on, now," said he; " don't hang around here.' Free! The tears gushed into her eyes. Oh! how thankful she felt, just to be free. Death has not so much terror as imprisonment to such as she. And now she would look again for work-immediately -not a moment to waste! Work was her only salvation now. Work--no matter how severe-no matter how poorly paid-if she could get work enough tO buy food, that was all she asked. She was not utterly penniless, as it chanced. There was a dollar-bill in her little pocket-book, besides a few cents. Her first thought was to buy a newspaper, and look among the advertisements for "help wanted."    "       ONE POOR GIRL. Her second thought was to buy a few cakes, and, put- ting them in her pocket, eat them as she walked on. She did not know what street this was that she was in. It reminded her somewhat of Broadway-yet it could not be that street; the buildings were poorer, the street was wider, there were horse-cars running up and down in great number. It was the Bowery. She had never before been on the east side of town.   CHAPTEk XIV. SLY ISAAC. THERE was among the advertisements in this news- paper one which sought for girls to sew on plain shirts, at good wages and prompt pay, and applicants were to call at No.  , in the Bowery. "Good wages! Prompt pay!P That suited her exactly. She believed the advertisement! She found the number; it was a little clothing-store like a cupboard with the door off its hinges, and opening on the street. The door-way was so hung with shirts, and coats, and trowsers, that the interior was obscured from view; and behind a counter in there was a greasy man with a hooked nose and a broad, flat mouth. He saw her looking in at the door, and waited quietly there, like a huge black-headed spider, confident of his prey.  - Susie pushed aside the overhanging curtain of shirts and trowsers, and went into the Jew's den. There was no sign over the door of this place. Sly Isaac changed his location too often to care to annoy him- self about signs. And the police could find him when wanted without looking for his sign, or his name in the directory. "Good-morning, mish," said the broad, flat mouth of Sly Isaac. "Vot can I do for you to-day?" b- ,        ^   68       ONE POOR GIRL. He knew, as soon as he saw her, what she came after. He was used to reading that look in girls' eyes. "I came to get work, if you please," said Susie timidly, wishing in a corner of her heart that her to-be employer had not so wide lips nor so cruel a nose. "Ah! you vants vork," he spoke in a very soft, insinu- ating tone; "I'sh very shorry for you, mish; de vork is all gif out fer to-day. Next veek I haf snom more vork, if you come early Montay morning." "Oh! I wanted it to-day!" said Susie, sighing wearily. ("This is the beginning of another long day of fruitless search," she said to herself;) then added aloud, "I need work very much," "Ah! vel, dat is too pad. I got none vor -you, und I vish I had, mish." Susie turned-to go. ';Shtop a bit," said the Jew, looking up at the little bank of shelves behind him, and scratching his greasy head. "I don't like you to go off like dat. Do you need de vork so mush?" "Oh i indeed I do, sir-I need it very, very much." "Y-e-es? Vell, vell! I mush shee vat I can do for you. I feels shorry for a nishe leedle gal dat vants de vork. Let me shee!" He seemed to be pondering deeply over a question which gave him grave concern. Susie watched his face as anxiously, as if her destiny hung on his words; and perhaps it did-who knows? The veriest trifles sometimes decide events for us in such a curious way-changing the whole current of a life in one swift moment. However, it was no trifle to this girl-the question of whether she were to have work or not. 7    ISAAC ASTONISHED.       69 The Jew snapped his fingers. "Vell!" he said through his nose, "I'sh got vun dozen of dem flannel shirts to make up, and I promised 'em to anoder gal; but if-you vants the vork so mush, you must have 'em. Dere!" he spread the shirts out on the narrow counter. "You takes dem home and makes 'em-" "-Oh!" interrupted Susie, "I thought you had a shop where I could work." "Yesh, my dear, so I has," he said; but he lied--this I   little room was all his premises; "I has a very large shop an' fifty gals to vork in it, but de shop is a-full now. But I pays you more ven you -doos 'em to home. You takes dem home and makes 'em, an' ven you fetch 'em back I pays you two dollar an' a harf." "Two dollars and a half!", uttered Susie, " for making twelve shirts!"It seemed so little pay for so much work. "Yesh," said he, "I knows dat is pig pay, but I never asks de gals to vork for notting." He said it with such a generous air that Susie thought she must have misunderstood.             "You said there were a dozen, I believe?" she asked. "Yesh, vun dozen, an' I pays you two dollar an' a harf." "I-I thought it very little," said Susie. "VAT!"The Jew looked at her as if he suspected her of lunacy. "Leetle! Ma Gott! Leetle! I don't pelieve you ever made a shirt in your life den, eh?" "No, I never did; but I can sew very well, and I know I can make them to please you." "Ah!" his nose positively hummed with the vigor of his sensations, "I t'ought so. Den you better go out and look around a bit. You go and see vat you git somevere else. I tell you vat you git-you git vun dol-   70       ONE POOR GIRL. lar a dozen-dat's vat you git. Leetle! ma shoul! dat is more as twice vat you git anyvere else. I don't vant you to pelieve me-you go out an' look, dat's all." He spoke with such a deeply injured air, as he put the shirts back on the shelf, that Susie said, "Well, then, I will take them." "No," said the Jew, in the tone of a martyr, " you go out and look somevere else. Den you comes back to me by'm-by." "Oh! please let me have them," pleaded Susie, alarmed at the prospect of losing even this poor chance. -"I do believe you-indeed I do." He put -the flannel before her again.  "If I vasn't so shorry for you, I vouldn't gif it to you now." She gathered-the bundle up in her arms, and turned to go; but he clutched her by the sleeve. "Ma shoul!" he said; "you an't going off and not leave me my shecurity?" "I--I don't understand," said Susie. "Two dollar for shecurity," said he. "You haf to pay me two dollar, and den you take de shirts." "But I can't'do that," said Susie, reflecting that she had but a dollar in her purse. "Vy, vot a leetle innocence it is!" he cried, rolling up  his eyes and, shaking his hands over his head. "You think I'll let you take all dat property avay vid no she- curity? You might shteal it, my dear. I don't know you. You-have to gif me two dollar, and ven you bring de shirts pack, den I pays you four dollar an' a harf- dat's your money back, you -shee; and two dollar an' a harf for de vork. Now you know." Susie laid down the bundle, and turned away.   1 THEE LAST DOLLAR.       7I (Iiii: "I have only one dollar," she said. I "Shtop! I lets you take it for a dollar den. I can trust you, my dear; you don't look like a thief." She hesitated, looked earnestly at him, and then ran out of the shop. "My last dollar," she whispered to herself. "I don't dare to part with it. And, besides, where should I go with the work? I have no home."  Then she shuddered; rather than return to Jo White's home, she felt as if she would walk the streets forever. And then she set but wearily upon the long tramp in search again of work-only work. i              7 . ,-   CHAPTER   XV. MRS. MOYNAHAN'S. THERE are two poor creatures in this world who know how long a day can be--one, the prisoner at a treadmill; the other, the searcher through a great city after work. All day long Susie wandered about, seeking everywhere for work to do-all day long, with the rush of a careless throng about her-all day long, in vain! The shops were full;- the ready answer was, "No-go away;" or a deposit was required; or insolent comments were offered her on her pretty face, in lieu of any reply at all to her' query. The night came down, and she was still wandering. Faint and weary as she was, the consciousness of her situ- ation sent a thrill of new energy through her, as she saw the lamplighter going his rounds. Must she walk the streets all night? She was back in the Bowery again, and the throng had grown into a steady, dense procession, swollen by the army of working-people going to their homes-men with tin pails, and girls and women with baskets and bundles. How eagerly she looked into their faces! Three girls walking side by side chanced to turn and look at her with her hungry, white face. She clutched one by the shawl. "Do you work?" was all she asked. "Work! Of course we do," said the girl.   MARY BELL'S PITYING HEART.     73 "And hard, too," echoed another. "Come on, Mary," said the third; "what does she want of us?" "No, don't go!" said Susie. "I'll tdll you what I want: I want to work, as you do--or harder. I want a roof to sleep under." "Where'd you sleep last night?" said with a sneer the girl who had asked her companion, to come on. Susie's eyes closed in agony as she heard that question. Dared she answer?  Dared she say she passed last night in a cell? "Oh! do pity me a little," she cried, looking into the face of the girl called Mary. "I'm sure you would, if you knew." "Walk on with us," was the answer. "It won't do any harm to hear your story, if you've got one to tell." -Then walking on, Susie told, in a few swift words, the story of her mother's death, her despair, her flight to the river, her night in prison; and the girl Mary took her by the hand and said, with generous tears in her eyes, ' You may come home with us." The home which Mary spoke of was in a miserable house in Rivington street, far down toward the East River. It was kept by a poor Irish widow, who had hard work to set the table and pay her rent. Her six boarders were all working girls, who paid her each two dollars and a half a week, and because this was half a dollar less than they could find accommodations for elsewhere, they never complained of the coarse and scanty, fare she set before them, nor of the uncomfortable accommodations she provided. There were but two rooms in the Widow Moynahan's establishment: one was the kitchen and   74  -     ONE POOR GRL. dining-room, with a bed in a corner; -the other was a, bed- room simply, and was large enough to hold the bed and nothing else. Three of the girls slept in one bed, three in the other; Mrs. Moynahan contented herself with lodg- ings on a ragged lounge. Mrs. Moynahan's astonishment, when she found that Mary Bell had picked up a girl in the street and brought her home, was profound, but not speechless. "She is going to sleep in my place, Mrs. Moynahan," said Mary; " and I am going to sleep on the floor." "Sure, ye've a kind hayrt, Mary," quoth the widow; "an' it's like you, too, to fetch me another bootder. I've been wantin' one, for it's bothered I am to set the table for yees all, and another one will help a great dale." They sat down to supper presently; and though they were greatly crowded for elbow-room, and the bread and potatoes were barely enough to go once round, and the ,teapot held precisely seven cupfuls, there were no com- plaints. Mary related again Susie's story, and they look- ed in her sweet, pure face, and believed her easily; for their own lives were not far removed from like expe- riences. They discussed the question of employment for Susie with all the earnestness and gravity which thorough ex- perience had given them, and one and all agreed that there was little use in looking for work in the shops, they were- all so crowded. "The best thing for you, Susie," (it did not take long for them to get her name pat enough on their tongues,) "if you are quick with your needle, is to go to that clothing- store and take the work he offered you; for, really, the pay he offers is very large for that kind of work.".     ,1          SUSIE IS AMAZED.  -      75 They knew nothing of the place itself, save what Susie had told them. "By working evenings," said Mary Bell, as they drew back from the table, (the last potato gone, and the last drop of tea vanished,) " you ought to earn three dollars a week, at such prices as that. We all of us work evenings. Here is my work." She drew forth from under the bed a box, in which her worldly goods- were kept, and produced therefrom a bundle of hickory shirts. "I only get sev- enty-two cents a dozen for making these, and I furnish the thread myself; yet I almost always earn forty-five or fifty cents a week-with my sewing evenings." Susie listened in mute amazement; and as the other girls (in order to " cheer her up," they said) showed each her own work, and named the price she received for it, Susie wondered more and more, and began to think of the Jew with some self-reproach. He had offered her two dol- lars and a half per dozen for making those coarse flannel shirts, and here was one girl who was making a dozen for one dollar and a quarter! Here was another girl making men's heavy blue overalls for five and a half cents apiece! None of the girls had such profitable work as the Jew had placed in her ungrateful hands. She resolved to go to him the first thing in the morn- ing. "And for fear he won't give it ye," said Mrs. Moyna- han, in a gush of generosity-assisted, perhaps, by her desire to keep the new boarder--"I've got a dollar in me stockin' that I'll lend ye till the ind o' the week, so ye can give him his security." And when bed-time came, and Susie positively refused to take the place Mary offered her in her bed, there  arose quite an animated discussion as to whose should be   76        ONE POOR GIRL. the privilege of sleeping on the floor. It ended by Susie's taking the lounge, and Mrs. Moynahan the floor. "For," said she, as a final argument in her favor, " it's mesilf that profits by it, darlins; 'and if the purty child only pays her board with rigularity, I'm more than willin' to slape on the soft side of the flure." "I will pay it, Mrs. Moynahan," said Susie fervently; "I will surely pay it at the end of every week." "I know ye will." Then the candle was blownout, and the room echoed with "Good-night! good night!" till they all fell into the sound sleep which profound weariness brings. And Susie Garland dreamed a dream of purling brooks and flowers, and green trees, and,wandered in Arcadia till the morning broke gray through the windows, to bring her back to her unhappy life.  .                  .   CHAPTER   XVI. THE WORK AND THE WAGES. THE six girls were all up and off to their w ork at six o'clock. A little later, and Susie was on her way to the shop of Sly Isaac. She felt very meek and repentant to- ward him, thinking what injustice she had done him the previous day. Why, in the light; of the information - gathered in that earnest conversation among the girls last night, he seemed a very prince of generosity! "I did him wrong," she said to herself, as she walked along. "He don't grind-the girls to powder, like many of the great dealers with their grand stores in Broadway! I am sorry I was suspicious of him, but he did look so very ugly!" Sly Isaac swallowed a chuckle as she entered his den, and drew a very long face. "I've got the other dollar, sir," said Susie, in her sweet- est voice, and with an air of meek apology, " and I have come for the shirts to make." He played with her a little, as a cat plays with a mouse before swallowing it, but ended by giving her the bundle, and taking her two dollars. She hurried home almost with lightness at her heart, and went to work. - "Sure ye've lively fingers," said Mrs. Moynahan, ad- miringly.   78       ONE POOR GIRL. Susie thought, that first day, that her landlady was the best of women. The second day she thought that Mrs. Moynahan had queer ways, and that her breath smelt like Jo White's, and made her feel a dreadful sickness at her heart whenever the widow came and talked in her ear. 'The widow had many confidences to impart to Susie, and some of them were unpleasant to hear; and when, as a final complete unbosoming of herself, Mrs. Moynahan produced a black bottle, and invited her boarder to " take a sup," Susie was greatly frightened. ' Oh! no," she said, "I couldn't touch it, Mrs. Moyna- ban ;" and then she shuddered, and a great repugnance passed across her face like a shadow. Mrs. Moynahan was angry. "Ye needn't look at me like that," she said. "Sure there's worse things than drinkin' a drop o' -whisky, and ,it's few comforts a poor widdy woman has." She went off into the corner and sat on the bed, and never spoke again for an hour. At the end of that time she said, "If ye go blabbin' to me other boorders about this, it's a serpent ye'll be that I took in unbeknownst, and it was the ginerosity of me hayrt made me offer ye a sup, any way." "Yes, I know it was, Mrs. Moynahan," said Susie, "' and indeed I won't tell of you." Though this was but consenting to her own desire, Mrs. Moynahan was not appeased. "Mother- of us!" she muttered, "ye spake of it as if ye'd caught me stealin'." When the end of the week came, Susie had not yet   MRS. NMOY VAfTAf 3 IS ILL- TEIPERED. 79 finished her task. She was nimble of fingers, true; but in her anxiety to please -the Jew, whom she had begun by thinking so meanly of, she did the work with a minute nicety which awakened the plaudits of the other girls. "Such beautiful work," declared Mary Bell. "But if you do it so carefully and well, Susie, I'm afraid it won't pay you, even at those prices. Here it- is Saturday night -a whole week gone, and only nine shirts made. You must hurry." Mrs. Moynahan (who had not been-for one moment the same good-natured creature since her whisky-bottle had been discovered) took occasion on Monday morning- to repeat the same advice, but not in the same spirit. "Ye must work faster than this," she said, " av ye ex- pict to live with dacent people. I don't wish to throuble you, ma'am, but I say to you plainly, I'm wishin' to see the color of me money that you owe me." "Please don't be cross, Mrs. Moynahan," said Susie, looking up, with tears glistening in her eyes. In truth these taunts were an unnecessary addition to the load the poor girl carried. With the weakness and timidity of a child, Susie was trying to keep up the heart of a brave and self-reliant woman. She was very far from being that. Mrs. Moynahan, in spite of her ill-temper, was silenced by a passing throb of sympathy over the girl's evident pain under this cruel infliction. She could not fully enter into Susie's feelings, it is true; her experiences of girls who earn their own living had never before brought her in contact with so tenderly reared a plant as this. She would have held Susie to be little better than a great baby, if she had been able to understand her exactly. So far as she had known girls of that age, she had found them to A.   80        orONE POOR GIRL. be possessed of some independence of character, and a "temper of their own." This phrase meaning a capacity for ill-temper, Susie had nothing of the sort. She was naturally as gentle as a dove. Petted and caressed as Susie Garland had always been, it was literally agony to her to hear a harsh tone addressed to herself. This had driven her from Jo White as from a demon. This had made her shudder under the frown of the overseer Peck. This also had made it possible for Gander to approach her pure, shrinking nature-with his own snake-like one; even the counterfeit of kindliness in his tone had had power over her, coming immediately after her rude discharge from the shop, and while ;er ten- der sensibilities were still quivering under the crugl blow. Mrs. Moynahan certainly had Susie at a very great advantage. Susie suffered meekly but in agony. To the distress produced by the Irishwoman's offensive tone was added the bitterer gall of resting under a base suspi- cion. This was what cut most keenly into the poor girl's heart; that her landlady should doubt her intention to pay; her intention?-her eagerness, her feverish anxiety, to pay-while still this wearisome work chained her to the rock. Till the shirts were done, she was helpless. And yet, in pressing onward to the goal of their completion, she must not use the haste which kills speed. She must do the work as perfectly as it should be in the power of human hands to do it, and thus win the Jew's approbation completely. Mrs. Moynahan's momentary pang of self-reproach passed quickly. Had not the odious girl discovered her dearest secret, and refused to share her weakness? . She returned to the attack:   $I',        THE WIDO W IS PITILESS.      8l tI   . "An' it's not alone the two dollars an' a half fer the week's boord, ma'am," she said, with great acerbity, " but, av ye remember it, I loaned ye the dollar I had in me stockin' as well." "Oh! indeed, indeed I do remember-it," Susie said, with quivering lip; "and I shall get the shirts done to- morrow, and then I'll pay you the whole I owe you. And I shall do the next dozen much more quickly, now I have got in the way of working again with my needle." "It's all very nice talkin',' said the widow, with an air of the most profound incredulity, " an' I only hope ye'll be as good as yer word, fer it's boddered to death I am to set the table." And she went behind the door to com- fort herself with a sup of whisky. It never' seemed to bother Mrs. Moynahan to keep her bottle supplied. Susie bent wearily over her work, and her tears fell silently on the cheap red flannel which she was sewing with far too much care; for it was worthless, rotten stuff, and the shirt when made would be costly at half a dollar. The hours dragged on. "If I had your curly head, an' your red lips, an' your gintale ways, it's not workin' I'd be oh thim shirts as ye can't earn your boord money by," said Mrs. Moynahan, who was rather more under the influence of her favorite beverage than usual, and was gradually passing into a mellow state, inconsistent with acerbity. "What else can I do?" asked Susie wonderingly. "Plinty things. Ye might go in one of thim concert- saloons, axick! I'm tould thim girls in thim concert- saloons makes twelve an' fifteen dollars a week." "What do they do?"Susie's eyes were big with sur- prise. "Nothin' whativer," said Mrs. Moynahan; " nothin' in   8X2    .-  ONE POOR GIRL. the' wide world but jist sit by the tables, and listen to the music, and wait on the fine gintlemen that comes in." Mrs. Moynahan went on, at some length in her eulogies of this mode of life, but she was too much intoxicated, to conceal with sufficient art the dangers of that life. Susie caught the glimmer of the serpent's eyes in this tempting picture, and put it away from her thoughts, and bent over her work with renewed industry. The shirts were completed next day, and late in the afternoon Susie set out to return them to the shop of Sly Isaac. Her heart was almost light as she tripped along the street and turned into the Bowery, bearing her heavy bundle. "I shall receive my pay for the work, and my deposit- money," she thought, as she walked on. "That will be four dollars and a half. I can pay Mrs. Moynahan a week's board and the dollar she lent me, and then I shall have a dollar left. He will take the dollar as a sufficient security for another dozen, surely, for I have done these so tho- roughly that he will be delighted with them, and will be anxious to keep me at work for him." And then she-thought Mrs. Moynahan would not be so cross with her any more. And the Jew-perhaps he would praise her for the work; that would be a drop of sweetness in her cup-to be praised even by those flat lips, through that cruel nose. Sly Isaac took the bundle from her with a portentous frown. He had on his ugliest face for this occasion. He gave her no greeting as she entered, but tore open the bundle with his dirty hands, and held one of the shirts up to the light.   THAE TERRIBLE THRE AT.      83 A howl of dismay issued from his mouth, and his face was wreathed into the most frightful contortions. is Ma Gott! ma shoul! ma body! vat you done to dese shirts? Hein? Ma shoul! it is ruined!" Susie turned pale, and her white lips gasped an inaudi- ble reply. The Jew shook the shirt over his head in a fury of rage' he threw it on the floor, and stamped on it; he clutched his dirty hands in his greasy hair; he howled and swore like a madman. "Oh! what is the matter?" Susie was trembling with terror. "De matter!  You arsk me vot is de matter! Look 'ere!"He clutched one of the shirts, and shook it in her white face. "Do you call dat sewing? Ma shoul! you have spoiled all dem beautiful shirts! Git-out o' my shop! Git out quick! - Go!"t He swept the pile of shirts under his counter with one hand, while he shook the other in her face, like the claw of some huge bird. "Oh! please don't!" cried Susie, ready to drop to the floor. "Oh! you von't go, eh?" he sneered through his cruel nose, while his little eyes snapped viciously. Den I has you arrested!" "Arrested!" "You spoil my shirts, my beautiful shirts! You tink you can do dat for not'ing? You shall see! I has you arrested, and lock you up all night in de Tombs. Hi  police!? (He did not call loud enough to be heard above the din of the street; but to her ears it was like the pealing of a  brazen tocsin.) Aha!,you don't like dat I t'ought dat vould git you!"   84       ONE POOR, GIRL. She had turned and fled as from the jaws of hell--fled out into the crowded, noisy street, with but one thought-she  should be arrested again! Oh! no, not that! any thing but another night in that horrible cell! And, drawing her shawl about her, she fled away from the sound of the grating voice that had terrified her-with this most frightful of menaces. Sly Isaac turned into his den, rubbing his hands with glee, and laughing till the tears came into his eyes. In all his experience with girls, he thought, (and hundreds on hundreds had he frightened off with that same bit of thea- trical effect-it was his road to riches,), among all the girls he had turned away in that manner, he had never seen one so thoroughly scared as this. He laughed till he nearly choked himself, stamping about his little den, bent nearly double with the intensity of his mirth. -!  ,   CHAPTER   XVII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) AMONG THE POOR GIRLS-THE SEWING-GIRL ALICE---THE RASCALS WHO CHEAT. THE mass of evidence which has accumulated on my hands, thus early in my quest, is crushing. We are guilty. ANos quoque tela sparsimus. We are all, in some sense, blamable for every wrong. Every intelligent man who stands idly by while wrong is done is particeps criminis just in proportion to his ability to prevent that wrong. I begin to-day the record of my discoveries regarding the poor girls of this city, their trials, their temptations, their physical and mental sufferings, their inadequate re- ward for exhausting toil. Why is it not echoed up and down the long streets of the town that here, right here, where the crowds pass, such wrongs are being borne by -poor white girls as scarcely live in the records of African slavery?  p I write this in my journal, but it shall go before the public. Whatever selfish purpose I may have had when I devised the plan of this journal, I have a better purpose now. From this hour forth, let me be inspired by the knowledge that these pages are to go before the world. If Miles declines the task of editor upon them, they shall   J be printed in the rough. Thou reader for whom henceforth I write, I know not   86        ONE POOR GIRL. thy condition nor thy name; but whatever thou art, I take thee in spirit with me where I go. Come with me; at half-past five o'clock in the drear November morning, quit the bed and come with me. It is still early when we arrive at the corner of Chatham street and the Bowery, but not too early for that which I have to show you. Pause here and observe the passing throng. It has--many novel features; but let them pass. Note these thinly-clad creatures who hurry shivering past, while the raw wind searches with its cold fingers through their scanty garments, -unheeding their pitiful, wearied faces. We count them by tens, by scores, by hundreds, as we stand patiently here-all bearing the same general aspect of countenance, all hurrying anxiously forward, as if this morning's journey were the most momentous one of their whole lives. But they take the same journey every morning, year in and year out, whether the sun shines or the rain falls, or the bleak winds whistle and the snow sweeps in their face with a pain like the cutting of knives. The same faces go past in this dreary procession month after month. Occasionally one will be missing; she is dead. Another; she is worse than dead--er face had beauty in it. Thus one by one they drop away, caught by disease born of their work and their want,  bringing speedy end to the weary, empty life-caught by temptation, and drawn into the giddy maelstrom of sin, to come out no more forever.       L Do you recognize them'? They are the poor girls. This is not the only point by which they file, morning after morning. If, Asmodeus-like, you could hover in the air above the roofs of the town, and look down upon its myriadstreets at this hour, you would see such pro- cessions in every quarter of the metropolis. The spectacle   A VASST A RMY.        87 would help you to form some idea of the vastness of that army of struggling young women in this city who may be classed under the head of poor girls--girls, that is, who are forced to earn whatever food they eat, what- ever clothing they wear, by hard toil-girls who do not receive one cent, one crumb, from the dead, helpless, or recreant parents who brought them into the world. It is, of course, impossible to give their number accurately; but there is a result, obtainable by persistent observation, day after day, at all hours and in all sorts of places, which is quite as reliable and satisfactory as any that is obtainable through blundering census-takers; and I know this army of poor girls to be one of great magnitude. The sewing- girls alone I have heard estimated at thirty thousand, by one whose life is in every-day contact with them, and has been for years. This is but a single class among the poor girls, reflect. The estimate may be deemed an exagger- ated one. Then we will disarm criticism by taking it at half its word. If, accordingly, we say thirty thousand for the whole-for all classes-it is still a vague figure, not to be trusted as an indication of the true bulk of this great army. Yet even with this limit for our thought, contem- plating the spectacle of thirty thousand poor girls, strug- gling with the most dreadful poverty on the one hand and the most dreadful temptations on the other, the mag- nitude of the theme becomes oppressive. Nine people out of ten would even fail to comprehend the magnitude of the mere number, thirty thousand, in any practical way. Few persons ever saw thirty thousand people gath- ered together. But we all comprehend distances. If this army of poor girls were to form in a procession together, it would be more than ten miles long. Is it no matter what perils beset the paths of these poor 8*   88       ONE POOR GIRL. creatures? If you think it is, it must be that you need to know the subject better. Remember that the general estimate of the working- women of New-York places the number at over one hun- dred thousand. It is only that no man shall dare to say my picture is exaggerated that I choose to place the figures of the story so far below the truth. The needle appears to be the means of employment common to the largest number of these poor girls; but I have found that many labor at other employments than those which engage the needle solely. Here is a list- imperfect, yet suggestive: Hoopskirt-making, Hair-work, Torpedo-making, Book-folding, Enameling, Weaving, Saleswomen, Picking feathers, Cigar-making, Photograph-mounti Medicine labeling, Paper-box making, Book-binding, Millinery work, Nut shelling, Print coloring, Stencil work, Gold-leaf cutting,   Bead-work, Tape-cutting, Packing fig-paste, Paper-bag making, Copying, Canvassing, Upholstering, Trimming labels, Envelope-gumming, Press-feeding, Type-setting, Gaiter-fitting, Burnishing, Flower-making, Tea-caddy lining, Paper-collar making, Show-card lettering, Brush-making,  Fan-making.     ALICE.           89 Looking over such a list of employments as this gives one a clearer idea of the vastness of the army of poor-l girl workers than any mere figures could give; It is with such weapons as these that the poor girls are fighting the battle of life against fearful odds. But the weapon used by the greatest number is the needle. The sewing-girls appear to divide naturally into two classes-those who work at home, and those who work in rooms provided by their employers. The former class is smaller than the latter. Where girls sew at home, it is generally a special necessity that keeps them there. They are cripples, unable to go out; or they have a bed- ridden father, mother, sister, or brother to look after. Are you surprised? Many a poor girl, to whom life is a deathly struggle with starvation and cold, keeps a heart warm with such love as might win the plaudits of angels. Let me draw the picture of one such life-that of a girl named Alice, who ekes out a miserable existence in Mul- berry street. This is one of the vilest of the Five-Points streets; but Alice's home is not in the Five-Points part of it, being above Canal street. It is a dismal abode for human beings, nevertheless, this forgotten rookery where Alice dwells. Look into this girl's daily life a little. With her needle alone Ishe earns the money that pays for all they (herself and her father, who is dying of consumption) have-and very little that is. She pays four dollars a month for the rent of this room a little more than thir- teen cents a day. She works at sewing upon coarse shirts, at six cents apiece, providing her own thread. Does not this almost stagger credulity? But there is truth in the girl's face; it is impossible to disbelieve her. The firm which pays her this price is one of the most "respectable " in the city. Ask her a question:   90        ONE POOR GIR L. "Can't you get work to do at higher prices, Alice?" ", Sometimes, 'sir," she answers; " but these folks are better than many others, and pay regularly. Some who offer better prices will cheat, or they won't pay when the work is carried home. These folks give me plenty of work, and-I never have to wait; so I don't look around for better. I can't afford to take the risk, sir; so many will cheat us." Respectability is a good thing, you see. It appears, then, that in order merely to pay her rent, Alice must make two shirts a day. That being done, she must make more to meet her other expenses. She has fuel to buy-and a pail of coal costs her fifteen cents. She has food to buy-but she eats very little, her father still less. She hLas not tasted meat of any kind for over a year, she tells us. What, then, does she eat? Bread and potatoes principally; she drinks a cup of cheap tea, with- out milk or sugar, at night--provided she has any, which she frequently has not. It is nine o'clock as I sit here in my eyrie writing, and by the dim light of the tallow candle that stands upon her window-sill, Alice sits patiently stitching. A few hours later, I shall be in my bed asleep, and still Alice will be sitting there at work-the weary, dreary work, in which "the weary thread Along the garments' even hem And winding seam is led." Her father asleep beside her; dead stillness all about her; the tallow candle flickering feebly withits long wick, which she hardly dares to snuff, because that will make it burn the faster; midnight passed, and the morning hours creep- ing on-still the poor girl sits and sews, with heavy. eyes,   AN E'IPL OYER'S ARG UGMENT.    91I making shirts at six cents apiece, and " respectability" grows rich at the price of her very life-blood! "Well, and how are you going to help it?" My blood boils with indignation when I hear this ques- tion, persistently as men will put it. Help it? God knows, in this selfish world we can help nothing wholly; but so long as philanthropy can work, it can choose its fields. The millennium is still afar off, but we can work steadily toward the light thereof, though we die in harness. We shall never bring about the millennium by our works, prob- ably; but at least we need not waste our efforts on un- worthy ends, while there are giant evils like these to em- ploy us. I suppose men must get rich; and if they are to get rich by trade, they must grind the worker on the grind- stone. They must study to pay the lowest prices possi- ble, else how can they undersell their rivals? Do be practical! And just here we come to the unanswerable argument of the men who hire poor girls at these prices, to wit, that there are plenty who need- the work, and will do it at such prices because they need it. Once, when I said a plain word to one such employer, taking the liberty of a friend, he replied good-naturedly, "My dear fellow, what are you talking about? You forget that those girls must have work. They are thankful enough to get what I pay them. You men who want to set the world right in a day don't know what you are doing, half the time. If any girl that works for me wants to stop working at those prices, she's perfectly welcome to stop; there's a dozen want it, where one gets it. Why, I'm -a philanthropist myself, in one sense. I grind the poor girls? They'd   92        ONVE POOR GIRL. starve if I didn't give 'em work. Keep your indignation for those scamps that cheat the poor girls out of their earn- ings; the city's full of 'em." "Never mind them, just now. The gist of your argu- ment is, that you take advantage of the necessities of the poor girl. If she did not need your work so badly, you would pay better prices.- Suppose you could sell girls' fingers for gold. Suppose a girl were starving, and should offer to sell you her fingers. You would take them, wouldn't you?  What! not if she needed the money? She might starve, you know!" "Pooh, that's nonsense!" "No, it is only putting the case figuratively. These girls sell you their health-their very lives; sometimes they grow weary of that, and prefer to sell their chastity." In one of the back streets of the town is hidden the humble home of a girl who used to "go out" to her work; but one day an awning fell down upon her as she was passing underneath, and disabled her, so that she can "go out" no more. She is crippled for life, if I am not mistaken. She has to earn her own living still;, so she sits in her barren home, and plies her deft needle hour on hour by the window. She is especially skillful with em- broidery. One day there was sent to her a cloak to be made and embroidered. It came from a well-known Broadway merchant, and was such a garment as you might pay seventy-five dollars for at his counter. The stuff of which it was to be made was not very costly--it ! was only an infant's cloak--but it was to be .embroidered most elaborately on body, and cape, and collar, and sleeves. The worktwas sufficient to employ this dexterous sewing- girl two whole weeks of unremitting industry. The price a*\   THE RASCALS WHO CHEAT.       93 to be paid was four dollars. Whether this poor girl ac- cepted the work or not, I don't know; if she did not, an- other did-some unfortunate creature who "rmust have work." Of course, the rascals who cheat the :poor girls out of their earnings are a far greater evil than the " respectable " dealers who only pay starvation-prices. They are thieves..  In many cases, they are as notorious for-their practices, as any well-known thief whose face is in the rogues' gallery. Some of them openly boast of their success in this most villainous of petty villainies. A common practice is, to withhold a little of the girl's pay from week to week, on a plea of being " short," and, when a handsome aggregate has been reached, to boldly deny the debt. Another; plan is, to charge that the work brought in is not well done. These fellows-have been repeatedly brought to-grief through the courts since the establishment of the "Work- ing-woman's Protective Union," which makes a business of standing between the poor girls and their oppressors in various ways. Here are a pair of cases in point, gath- ered from the record-books of this society. Sansime gave a poor girl a piece of twelve yards of bead-work to do, requiring her to deposit a dollar before taking it away. She did it, and returned it, whereupon he declared she had spoiled it, and refused to pay her a cent for her labor. Not only that, but he kept her dollar deposit. In proof that she had not spoiled it, she offered to pay the scamp for the material, and take the work her- self; but he would not do that. Btenoir employed a poor girl at finishing pantaloons, paying her a beggarly price. Of course, the poor thing, when she had a chance to work for better pay, grasped eagerly at it. Betenoir was enraged. What business had   "       OVNE POOR GIRL, a miserable needle-girl to want to live? He cursed her for her perfidy in daring to leave him for a better place. "Will you please to pay me?" murmured the terrified girl, who could not bear to lose the little sum he owed her. "Yes, d-n you!" said he, "I'll pay you;" and he kicked her down-stairs. I have found hundreds of like cases. The evil is not confined to sewing-girl employers. Papier employed a girl at making paper-boxes a year and a half, and kept back bits of her pay till it amounted to fifty dollars-then denied he owed-it. Bonbon employed a girl at cutting and packing fig-paste, for two cents a pound, but-paid her only one cent. "You're making too much morley," said the brute. Gebiihrer is a brush-maker, who cheats every girl that works for him; here is a record of a party of ten girls, each of whom he owes some paltry sum--four dol- lars, seven dollars, ten dollars-which, however, has an almost inconceivable value to them. Here is a fan-maker- there, a gaiter-maker-yonder, a hair-dresser and wig- maker-they make no inconsiderable profit yearly by their skill in manipulating poor girls, getting work done for nothing, or next to nothing. There is a certain class of rascals who pursue the vil- lainous trade of swindling sewing-girls with the steady re- morselessness of demons. The law seldom reaches them- they are as wary as they are wily and heartless. Hang- ing would be strict justice to these wretches, for they are worse than common murderers, and they count their vic- tims by scores. I would hang every man of them; and before he was hanged, the thumb-screw should wring con- fession from him. It would read like this: c; I keeps a shirt-shop. I don't keep any, hands. I   Ir' THE THUMBSCRE S.      95 95 has a large amount of work done from week to week hows'ever. The way I does it is this 'ere. I advertises in the Herald or the Sun for gals to work on shirts, at good prices. There's allers gals a plenty, bless yer--the supply of gals never do gin out. I offers 'em big pay for makin' my shirts. But I makes 'em leave a han'some de- posit. They takes away the shirts to make 'em up. They brings 'em back, and I pays 'em-(agh! please don't screw this here right thumb so hard,)-I don't pay 'em. I looks at the shirts, and I says, ' What do you call this? What's this here? Do you call that sewin'? Who do you think I am?   Say! What do you take me for now? What?' That scares 'em, you see. ' Is thework done bad?' Oh! that don't signify; not at all-it's all bad work as comes to my shop, don't you see? So I pays 'em, back their deposit-money-(agh! do ease that left screw jest a mite,) but really, now, really, I do sometimes give 'em their de- posit-money back. 'Not always?' No, not always; some days I feel the value of money more than I do others, and them days perhaps I don't pay the deposit back. Then, sometimes, I ketch a Tartar-one of them black-eyed little snappers as says she'll have me up to the police-court, you know-and of course that won't do; so I not only pays her back her deposit, but, if she is very abusive 'onto me, I pays her somethin' for her work, too. But they an't often took that way. They generally goes off a-cryin', and I an't troubled with 'em no more. There's allers a fresh set comin' on as the last lot is a-goin' off. Lor! you've no idee what a quantity of gals they be in New-York. Where the fresh ones keeps a-comin' from every day, I can't imagine, I'm sure. But I don't see what would become of me without 'em. ' Am I a-gettin' rich?' Not me; oh! no, (ugh! that hurts!) I mean, yes; 9   96        ONE POOR GIRL. I've got considerable together, by industry and strict at- tention to business. 'How do I suppose those girls live-how they get food and clothing-when I rob them of the money they earn?' Now, really, don't ask me; you shouldn't expect a man to answer such questions, really. Some things mustn't be talked about, you know. I can't say what they does. It an't my look-out." The workers for charity's sake are few. The work they do is feeble-its results always inadequate to the needs which exist. These poor girls claim our first attention. The lost are lost. The innocents are ever being goaded toward sin, and shame, and death, by the atrocious acts of wicked -and selfish men. These must first be saved. When there is no longer work to do among these, it will be time enough to turn effort in the more hopeless direc- tion of the guilty. While one poor girl leads on the dreary torture of her life, our duty is with her. While one. poor girl is being swept onward daily to the brink of the awful precipice, we have no right to neglect her, and turn to the hopeless work of reanimating the corpses which lie at the preci- pice's foot. This night some poor girl is trembling on the brink of that yawning gulf. God send some rescuing hand to her!    CHAPTER XVIII. THE YAWNING GULF. SUSIE went blindly on for some time, hurrying up the Bowery in the direction of Rivington street, with no thought, no feeling but one of wild alarm. Once or twice she looked back over her shoulder, to see if she was followed by one of those terrible men with a star on his breast and a black club in his hand. When she came to Rivington street, and was about to turn into it, she stopped short, with a cry of pain. No! she dared not go back to that place-to confront Mrs. Moynahan with nothing! All the long week, as she had borne in silence the Irishwoman's taunts and doubts, she had said to herself that itwas only for a few days, that she would get her pay, and give the woman her money, and then she should be tortured no more. But now! Oh! if there was any miserable rookery in this wide city that would hide her from the eyes of the disappointed, angry landlady, she would fly to it for shelter! But, go back to the poor home she had left? Never! till she could carry with her the money to appease the wrath that lay in wait for her there. Poor Susie! She did Mrs. Moynahan injustice now. The widow's greatest fault was her love for her bottle. It was only her rage at her own weak betrayal of herself that made her torture Susie so. Had she gone back empty-handed, and told her story, Mrs. Moynahan would   98        ONE POOR GIRL. have sorrowed with her. But even that would not have brought the money back, and it was needed in that mise- rable home, every cent of it-none the less needed be- cause of the black bottle. Susie turned and crossed to the other side of the Bowery. Despair more deadly than any she had yet felt was creep- ing over her now. Where should she go? Here was the night again-the terrible, dark night, when the city blazed with a million lights, and none among them shone for her. And there was not one dime--not one cent--in her purse; and she was hungry. Hungry! In- all the wide vocabulary of the English language, there is not one word more terrible in its sound than this. Despair is terrible, but it has its poetic side. Guilt is terrible, but there have been guilty ones beau- tiful as the sirens of a dream. But hunger! therein lies wrapt all that tongue can tell of barren, harsh, fierce, and unpoetic woe. For we all know hunger as a daily friend, whom it is our daily pleasure to appease, and we bid him as the most welcome of all guests to our most luxurious banquets. And it is so easy to satisfy hunger!--except- When you are hungry, and can not satisfy your hunger, then you will know! She took no further notice which way her footsteps tend- ed. What did it matter? The busy crowd hurried by, with talk, with laughter, noticing her no more than if she had not been there. It brushed her garments as it passed up and down, and heeded her as little as if she had been an invisible spirit, wandering ghost-lilke in her utter loneli- ness. It swept her onward like a bit of driftwood in a brawling stream, and as idly as the stream tosses the wood upon gome jutting rock, it jostled her aside at a crossing,   IN BROADWAY.          99 and she turned into one of the darker streets leading to Broadway. She walked on, still without aim, alone with her stem companions, Hunger and Despair. She came into Broadway-brilliant, dazzling, ever-beau- tiful Broadway, with its far-reaching ranks of shining lamps; its gay shop-windows, tempting every sense with its luxurious display: its -deep, long shops, where groves of gleaming chandeliers twinkled away into the infinitude of ever-repeating mirrors; its mines of wealth, its thousand haunts of pleasure and sin--Broadway, with its roar of omnibuses and carriages, its seething current of life, and its loneliness, as of a desert, to this wandering girl. Hours she wandered up and down, crossing and re- crossing the street, amid the oaths of angry drivers; pausing and retracing her steps without a purpose, wandering aim- lessly on, till her feet were like ice in the melting snow and slush, and her eyes were hot like fire amid the glitter of all the lights. The rainbow-hued globes of light which glittered over the doors of the theatres, syllabling their names in letters of magic; the gleaming prismatic stars which sparkled like mountainous diamond heaps before minstrel-halls; the gaudy transparencies which lined the sidewalk on either side, coarse lamps of sin, and shame, and riot--all spoke to her sense of unknown paradise gardens, where there were music, and laughter, and the perfume of laces and of flowers, and no pain. She had never- seen the inside of a theatre, a negro-minstrel hall, nor a concert-saloon; to her, they were all of the same world, and all spoke of pleasure, and of warmth and happiness.  She paused by the gleaming portal of a great theatre, and saw the pleasure-seeking throng stream in. Girls of 9*'   I00       ONE POOR GIRL. her own age there were, with bright bouquets in their hands and happy smiles on their faces, who passed in, leaning on the arms of brothers or of lovers; and she sighed with weary envy of their sunny lot, and watched them wistfully as they went down the long avenue of light which led to the green doors opening for them on a temple of delights; and no one in the throng had word or look for her. No one save a policeman, who pushed her on the shoulder and bade her move on, at sight of whom her start; led eyes gleamed with new born terror, and she fled again, into the darkness of a by-street. The irresistible temptation of Broadway soon drew her back again, to wander still in its dazzle-to look again with her hungry eyes into the windows of restaurants, from whose depths floated the perfume of delicious viands, whose odors were like the tortures of Tantalus; but looking ever over her shoulder, she was away before the man with a shield on his breast could come to bid her move on once more. And at last her eyes began to dwell with a wild fascina- tion on the painted women who passed in rustling silks, and no outward sign to her pure vision of their inward shame. These women were happier than she (so she thought)-at least, they were not hungry; at least, they had warm clothing; at least, they had homes to which they could go when they were tired; and she bore in her imagination,-as most girls do who have read novels, gorgeous fancies concerning the gilded parlors lined with velvet lounges, and hung with vast mirrors, where she dreamed they dwelt. And while for one wild moment she stood still, with her heart beating, in a tumult of desperation- tempted, tempted, she knew not to what-there flashed in her face a blinding glare of light, as if the noonday sun had   TEM PTED TEM PTEED!     IOI burst in full glory to the zenith, pouring a fierce flood of flame upon her trembling form, and she started from that idelirious dream with a cry of terror. It was only a calcium-light upon a theatre-balcony, which had suddenly turned its white glare upon her, to sweep far down the street with a radiance, so bright that the gas-lamps paled their flickering light to the semblance of glow-worms. Still on she wandered, her ear catching the sounds of music and laughter, the voices of song and the echo of applause, that came up from out these basement-haunting concert-saloons, more distinctly heard now that the roar of Broadway was growing more subdued with the waxing of the night. Then came back upon her memory the words of Mrs. Moynahan-came to tempt her terribly in this hour when she was weakest. Her curly head! Her bright red lips! These were prized in the concert-saloons, and the girls who earned their money with their beauty had "nothing to do but sit at the tables and listen to the music, and wait upon the gentlemen who came in." Should she try that life? Would it be wrong? Deep in her trembling heart she felt the danger and the wrong, even as she asked herself the question. She knew that girls who trade in their beauty always do wrong. And yet, there was a wide difference in her mind between simp- ly going down those basement-stairs to ask for employ- ment, and adopting boldly the dreadful trade of those  walkers in the street on whom she had looked but now. "At least," she whispered to herself, "there can be no  harm in trying. If I see danger, I can go away again." She turned to the descent with a slow, reluctant move-   102       ONE POOR GIRL. ment, and placed her icy foot on the first step of the stair- way leading down. One instant she hesitated-passed her hand wearily across her throbbing temples--and looked back. The calcium-light flashed, dazzling her vision with its bright- ness again, and, as if in sudden fear that she should be seen at that moment by the passers-by, she descended the stair- way, pushed open the green-baize door at its foot, and passed from sight.   CHAPTER XIX. HEYSINGER'S THEORY. AMONG the passers-by, whose faces were thrown into dark shadow, to Susie's eyes, by the flashing calcium- light, was George Heysinger. He came up the street in the glare of that stream of light, and he saw Susie Garland as she looked back, from the head of the concert-saloon stairs. Heysinger's dog trotted behind him, and on Heysinger's arm was a  friend and fellow-artist--though the latter wrought, his work through written words, and not on canvas. "Did you observe that girl, Miles?" What girl, most vague Heysinger? The street being full of people, you speak of one girl as if there were no other." "The girl who went down into .that man-trap jonder." "You mean the concert-saloon, I suppose?" said Miles. "Concert-saloon, most vague Miles! Yes, if that be a concert-saloon, where there is no concert and no saloon; where a rheumatic piano apologizes for the one, and a   cramped, ill-smelling cellar for the other; where -the visitors are one half sharpers, and one half rustic fools; where the attraction is not music, and not dancing, but simply vice, in the shape of painted and petticoated waiters, with whom modesty, decency, virtue, and beauty   104       ONE .POOR GIRL. are all alike reminiscences merely. , If you call that a concert-saloon, it is you who are vague, my friend. I call it a man-trap." They were walking slowly, on as they talked. '"But the girl," said the other; " who's the girl? An acquaintance?" "I have met her twice in my life." "Once were enough. You never do forget a face." "Bah! I forget more than I remember--like all the rest of the world. Our memories are rotten things, at best.' Time rubs out almost all the marks life makes on memory, and those which remain are smeared into each other, as I smear the colors of a failure on the easel with iconoclastic thumb. There was a face I saw ten years ago, in Arcadia --the face of a little country girl, who is by this time some honest farnier's wife. I fancied I should remember that face forever. Well! The face of that girl we saw go down- into yonder den has rubbed out the face of the Arcadian child in my memory, every line! Some likeness in this girl to the little country maiden struck my fancy when I saw her --first, and since, the child-face is obliterated. This one remains in its stead." "Oh! is that all? I thought perhaps there was a story connected with the girl." "You thought? Well, and with what girl who goes down such stairs is there not a story connected?" "Ah! of course. But they are not interesting stories generally, and do no good." "To you, with whom stories are but wares to sell in the market-place  " "Like your pictures?" said the other meaningly. 4 Forgive me, Miles. I did you wrong. The girl htas a   TWO PAGES OF A STORY.       105 story, my friend--I know only two pages in it. I saved her from going over a precipice one night." "A precipice? You're always talking riddles, Heysin- ger." "A precipice-in Houston street, not far from Greene." "Oh! ah-I see. You saved her from that? Then what's she doing at this time of the night, going down those stairs?"  -           . "Exactly-there are some pages missing from the story, you see.  Perhaps you can supply them--you've a lively fancy. Because there's a life-boat by when one storm is raging, shall there be no more storms? The gulfs which open at the feet of the poor girl in New-York are as num- berless as the devilish devices of libertinism. I saved her from  one-she fell straightway into another. Then She tried to drown herself. That was the second time I met her." "So you saved her soul the first time you met her- her body the next!  In such a case as that, I think I might remember her face myself. You're a curious fellow, George!   I don't know what to make of you, I confess. You lead a life as careless, for all your friends can see, as that of any other bachelor artist in the town. We, who know you-or who flatter ourselves we know you-we have an idea that your life is just like ours. If I were asked to picture your daily existence, I should say there was nothing in it worth an author's attention. It seems commonplace enough. If I drop in at your studio, I find you there, smoking your pipe, painting your pictures- just like any other humdrum fellow-no mysterious ab- sences, no evidences of womankind anywhere--nothing, in fact, to excite any profounder query than, 'How are you?' Then, in the evenings, you are always   About,   106       ONE- POOR GIRL. among us somewhere-at the opera, the theatre, or wher- ever the rest of us go-and, in short, a more common- place life than yours one would think the city did not hold." "How does all this make me curious,'Miles? I thought your theory was, that all lives are commonplace- too commonplace, at least, to interest you." "Wait a bit. It is just because your life seems to be modeled on this every-day fashion that you puzzle me so, at times, by the things you talk of. Here is this girl. You have just told me, with an indifference of manner, as if it were your daily employment to rescue innocence from the spoiler, and drag suicides out of the river, of having saved her virtue once and her life afterward." "Oh! you're getting it all wrong," said Heysinger care- lessly. "It was Turk here who pulled the girl out of the river. Good dog!" and he stopped to pat the shaggy head. Turk uttered an acquiescent bark. "Turk is only less curious than you are, George. But here is the point: the dog has no words in which to ex- press his views, so he's one advantage of you; for you, who do these generous and noble acts, and speak of them so carelessly, you seem to have no sympathy with the erring. You sneer at the efforts of philanthropists to rescue fallen women and degraded men-you -" "Go no further!" interrupted Heysinger. "You have stated the case--and stated it wrong in the main. Look you, Miles! A fallen woman is fallen, a degraded man is degraded, and a rotten egg is rotten. When these things are so, he who tries to remedy the irremediable is a fool. I am no philanthropist, you see! Why? Be- cause philanthropy, in these days, seems to be another name for idiocy."   PLA   -m WORDS.     107 "You are complimentary!" "I am only candid. What would you think of a farmer who had a thousand lambs, and on his farm a precipice, over which every day one lamb fell and was killed, and who should occupy himself with trying to re- store to life the lamb who went over yesterday, instead of driving his flock away .to a place of safety, and fencing them off from the precipice? Would it'be harsh to call him an idiot? But this is what your philanthropists are doing, year after year, in this wicked city. They waste their energies in trying to save fallen women and hardened criminals, and neglect the innocent who are daily losing their innocence-the lambs who are going over the preci- pice. They build Magdalen asylums, and-, try to coax from sin the painted Jezebels of the town, who laugh at them and fool them; while every day there are thousands of poor girls trembling on the verge of despair, who would need no coaxing to remain pure. For every one they restore from the seething hell of crime, a thousand fresh young lives go down into it. Do you know what drags them down?" "Natural sin, I suppose," said the other lightly. "No!"' cried Heysinger, with flashing eyes. "Poor humanity, how art thou, vilified! Not one girl in a thousand goes from  innocence into-sin for love of sin! Hunger drags them down! Cold drags them down! Dreary days and nights of toil and pain-aching bodies, aching Souls, dreadful doubts, mad longings, utter hope- lessness of the future-these drag them down! And yonder the good Samaritan, as men call him, is trying to coddle some loathsome harlot into a pretense of re- form, or shedding the tears of maudlin sympathy over some foul wretch in a Water street den, whose whole life 10   Io8       ONE POOR GIRL. has been a crime against nature-yonder is your good Samaritan on his knees, with his back to the vast drove of hungry-eyed girls who go and sell their chastity for bread!" "You are very bitter, Heysinger. I know many good -men who are interested in our city charities, and whatever may be the futility of their efforts to do good, they are at least honest in them." "Who said they were not honest? My word was idiotic!" "Well, I think you ought to be more lenient. You should have some respect for their good intentions." "Ah! bah! Have you forgotten the sort of pavement they have in hell?" , Oh! well, it's useless talking with you! I begun by saying you were curious-I end by saying the same. I turn off here, you know. Good-night, old fellow." "Good-night, Miles." Then he held his friend's hand while he added: "Every man regulates his conduct by the light he has, I suppose. I do mine, I know. I long ago drew the line, beyond which I never pass. Life is short, and none of us tan do much good while we stay, what with our own selfish concerns and the mistakes we make. I drew the line at the edge of the precipice. There I stop. Those who go over, I can not follow; those who are this side, I will help if I can. It was so with that girl. Her face has a fascination for me, but I can not help her-she has passed over, beyond my reach. Good-night. Come, dog." Half an hour later, Heysinger was in his bed. He could not sleep. That face had indeed a fascination for him. In the darkness of his chamber, it looked upon him,   MSGI VINVGS.      I  09 and he could not drive it away. He tossed uneasily on his pillow, and at last said aloud: "What if it should chance that I arnrrong?" Turk, lying outside his chamber-door, gave a loud bark. Moved by a feeling which he could not resist, Heysin- ger arose and dressed himself, and went Qut. It lwas two o'clock in the morning. "It may be too late," he said, " but I will see her if I can."           / He walked swiftly down Broadway, till he reached the stairway down which Susie had gone. It was too late. The stairway was dark; the concert- saloon was closed.   CHAPTER XX. THE CHOICE WHCH WAS MADE. IT was too late! The concert-saloon had put out its lights. The waiter-girls there employed had gone home. Where was Susie? "When she went down the stairs and pushed open the green-baize door, she passed into a long, narrow room, whose walls were hung with gaudy pictures, and at whose tables sat a dozen weary-looking girls, with painted cheeks jand tawdry dresses, who yawned every minute, and looked at the clock behind the bar at every yawn. Besides the girls, there were one or two young men, leaning on their elbows and smoking. A large, muscular man, with a pock-marked face, looked up from where he sat behind the bar, as Susie walked timidly in. ," What yer want?" he asked. "Please, sir, I want to work," said Susie. "To work'!"The man stared at her as if he could not believe his ears. "What at?" "At any thing by which I can live-at what these girls work at. I can do what they do, I suppose?" "Yes," he said, looking at her with his eyes half shut, "I s'pose you can, if you're on to it!" There was such a world of meaning in his tone and in his look! No girl, not a very wittol, could have heard him and not understood in some sense what he meant.   KATE.          I III Susie turned with an unutterable fear in her face-an unutterable misery in her soul-to fly; turned in terror, and mingled with her terror the awful despair of one whose load at last is too heavy to be borne-the wild agony of the drowning wretch. who has clutched, in his last hour of physical exhaustion, at the last hope, and felt it fail him, and leave him unto death. Load at last too heavy, indeed! Her trembling knees smote each other, her icy feet-lost their strength, her burning eyes swam in mist, and she fell to the floor, crushed at last by the burden she could no longer bear. "God, she's fainted!" They clustered about her in affright, their ennui dis- sipated instantly by the event-like all events, however painful or dreadful, made welcome to these girls by its power to break the dull monotony of the hours. For until the theatres should let out their throngs, it was dreary waiting for customers in this place. They occupied themselves with restoring, Susie's con- sciousness. "Take her in, and put that dress on her that Big Lou left," said the bar-tender. He had resolved to keep her. "KIate!" he called to a tall, dark woman, with heavy black eyebrows which met and joined between the eyes, "you take her in charge. D'ye hear?" She heard; and she knew what he meant. A half hour later, and Susie Garland sat at a table in the part of the hall farthest from the door, clad in a bright red dress which came only- to her ankles-her shoulders bare-wonderfully beautiful in her innocence and purity among these girls, all of whom knew sin by experience, and bore the marks thereof in their faces. The tall woman whose eyebrows met seemed to un- 10*   II2       ONE POOR GIRL. derstand quite clearly what her employer wished her to do.  She set herself earnestly to work to win the confidence of our poor wanderer; and how easy a task that was! Poor Susie! She was ripe for the tempter. Saved for the hour from that haggard destiny of the street-wanderer, it was easy to soothe her fears, for kind words were balm to her aching heart, and with relief from pain came lethe of sensibility.  ", Don't be uneasy, you poor child," said the woman called Kate. "You're safe here. No one shall harm i you. There's worse places than this. Tom" (meaning the bar-tender, who was also proprietor of the saloon) " is  a rough sort of a man, but he don't mean any harm. I'll take care of you."                   i "You are so good!" murmured Susie. The woman looked away, and frowned darkly. *"And you have been roaming the street all the even- ing," said sle, when the frown had passed. ' Dear, dear! It's a nasty night to be out. But it's warm in here.' 4' Yes, it's nice and warmn," said Susie gratefully. "Don't you want something to eat? You must be hungry."                  I ate '"I have not eaten since morning--and then I ate hardly any thing, I was so anxious about the shirts." The woman quickly brought food from the lunch- counter by the bar-some cold chicken, bread and butter, and a cup of coffee. Susie ate as one eats who is hungry. "You poor little chick!" said the woman. "Oh! how shall I ever thank you for being so good to me?" said Susie. "God will bless you! wil ask him to blessyou every night when I pray to him!"   Again the woman looked away, and frowned a terrible frown with her black eyebrows which met. The theatres were out now. Groups of noisy men came clattering down the stairs, banging the chairs about, talking loudly, and rapping on the tables. The waiter-girls were all busy in a moment It chanced that Susie was not accosted by any of the new-comers. The woman Kate left her alone while she served her ac- quaintances. Susie sat like one benumbed.  Her will seemed dor- mant-her energies paralyzed. She looked on the scene before her as if the figures in ,it were the creatures of a dream. She heard the coarse sallies of the men-the harsh laughter of the women--the oaths, the rude re- marks-the- discordant tinkling of the rheumatic piano. She saw the easy-familiarity of manner with which the men treated the waiter-girls, the careless equanimity with which the girls permitted rudeness from their customers. And through it all she sat there idle, with folded hands, looking on as if dreaming. She had no thought of flight --no question as to what she should do. She was in the hands of fate. Through the smoke-cloud which had settled down upon the scene, two dainty exquisites came walking, curiously, contemptuously, with their cigars in their mouths. One of them wore an eye-glass. He suddenly clutched his friend by the arm and pointed at Susie where she sat, while he stared as if he thought her a ghost. Up by the bar, the woman Kate bent her heavy brows, and said to the man behind the bar:   I I4      ONE POOR GIRL. "Tom! what do you want with that girl?" "I want yer to take her home with yer after we shet up t'night." "Tom! she's too decent. You don't want her." "Whawrt?" he glared on her like a tiger. "Who asked you? If you go back on me, I'll have it out on you, that's all. Come, now, what you goin' ter do?" Pshaw, Tom! I an't goin' to do nothin'. I was gassin'." But as she walked away, she frowned more ominously than ever. Presently the room was in a great commotion. There was much jumping up from seats-cries of "What's the matter?" and "Who's that?"--and Susie Garland came flying through the excited throng, crying out, "Oh! don't let that man touch me." She rushed into the arrms of the tall woman, Kate, who swung her quickly around to her back, her black eyes flashing dangerously. . Who's b'en a puttin' onto her?" she cried. "Augh! what a fuss about nothin'!" said the eye- glassed exquisite, coming up. "I an't touched her. She's an old flame o' mine, that's all. I spoke to her civil, by Jove! an' she don't know what to make of it." , Come on, Gander," whispered the other exquisite in his ear, " let's get out o' this beastly hole 'fore we get into trouble." , Goo'-night, Sue," said Gander. "I'll call again, old gal, now I know where to find you." His companion dragged him away, and up the stairs ito the-street. The curiosity of the throng of people in the cellar was,   KATE TAKES SUSIE AWAY.      II5 excited. They saw the great beauty of the girl, and her frightened manner, and it interested them. The proprietor was angry at this interruption of busi- ness. He came out from behind the bar to restore order. "Take the girl home, Kate-right off, now-take her home with you," he whispered. " Come, come, gentle- men! Please sit down, gentlenen! Please have order." Kate led Susie away into a room under the sidewalk, and bade her take off her fine dress, and put on the one she had worn when she came in from the street. Susie obeyed in silence, but there was a look of inquiry in her eyes. "The dress you've got on belongs to Tom," said the tall woman, answering the inquiring look. "We all wear his dresses in here, and when we are ready to go home we have to take 'em off-all but me. I don't, because I be- long to him, as well as my dresses." "You belong to him?" "Body and soul, I do. But you shan't!" She frown- ed again, and her eyes blazed like a panther's. "Come- hurry." They passed by the bar, on their way out to the street. "You know what I tole yer?" said Tom to the tall woman, in a low tone. "That's all right, Tom," she replied. Up into the street; and the woman clutched Susie by the arm, and hurried her along for two or three blocks in silence. Then she stopped. "Are we almost there?" asked Susie. "You're going no further with me," said the woman. "Say! Do you know what's before you if you stay in this city? Do you know what all the girls come to at last?"   -16       ONE POOR GIRL. "All?" whispered Susie, still responding like one in a "Every one!" said the woman' sternly.. "Every one! I know! I have watched enough of 'e--they all come to it at last-all, except them that run away, off into the country, or out west. They say a great many get off west lately. They must get off somewhere, or they're doomed. You'll come to it, if you don't mind what I say. Why, I was as decent as you are--when I was your age! I used to go to church once!-you wouldn't have thought that, would you? Well! Do you know what Ill get for this? Tom will half kill me; he had- no business to ask it of me! You're a pretty little thing, Sue--if that's your name--that's what he called you, the eye-glass fellow--who is he?" I' "I used to work at his shop," said Susie, trembling, and looking about with a frightened air; "and he----" "Yes, I know the rest! Well! he'll get you yet, if you don't run away. Now, where'll you go to-mght " "Oh! I don't know," moaned Susie; "I went down those stairs just because I didn't know where else to go." "Then there's only one place for you, you poor little wretch!" ,' Where?" "The station-house." "Oh! no, no-not there!" Yes--it's your only choice-the station-house or hell! I can give you some money, but it won't do you any good. You can't get into any respectable hotel or lodging-house, of course, you know; you couldn't if you were an angel with wings, unless you had a man with you, to vouch for your respectability. Hia! ha! The devil has every thing his own way in this town."   "Now, then, you two!" said a policeman, coming up. "What are you a-standin' there for? Go on!" "We an't doin' no harm," said the woman; " and here's a job for you. This girl an't nowhere to sleep." "Why don't you take 'er home with yer?" asked the officer gruffly. "She's decent," was the sole reply. The policeman turned to Susie, who was trembling, sore afraid. "Where'd you come from?" he asked. "I came from the country," she answered simply. "Ah!" there was a world of meaning in his tone. "She has made a choice this night," said the tall woman solemnly, "between a soft bed and perdition along with it, and a lodging on the floor with her conscience clean." "Come on, then," said the officer; "I can't stand pat- tering here all night." "Good-by," said the woman; "and if you have to go to the bad to keep from starving, don't come down to our place again, will you? I don't want to know of it!" She ran down a by-street and disappeared. The policeman was pleasant enough to Susie, but he could offer her nothing better than a bare floor at the sta- tion-house. To this he conducted her, and with this for her couch, her arm for a pillow, the poor girl passed the remnant of the night. If George Heysinger slept little that night, he at least bore in his soul no such agony of thought as that which racked poor little Susie's brain. The morrow! the morrow! the dreadful, doubtful morrow-! Oh! what would it bring? The morrow   brought a new horror-storm: wild, wintry storm, which swept shrieking through the stree's,   I I8       ONE POOR GIRL. whirling in the faces of men its blinding sheets of cold, white powder. They turned her out into the streets early in the morn- ing, along with a shivering crew of wretches, who, like her, had taken shelter there from the pitiless night. The storm caught her in its arms, and searched with its icy fingers through her thin garments to her shrinking flesh, and whirled her onward to another long day of hunger, another long search for work-only work. What does it matter how the quest ended? What does it matter through what tortures this innocent pursued her weary life? What does it matter whether she had food when she was hungry, fire when she was cold, rest when she was weary, or not? What does it matter whether she kept her innocence through all, or sold it for bread? She was but one poor girl. There are in this great city, at this moment, THOUSANDS of poor girls exposed to every temptation, victims -of every suffering, which could or. did beset the thorny path of Susie Garland. Who cares? This very night there will be some who will go in at the gates of infamy and be lost, and their tempter is neither love nor passion.      CHAPTER XXI. "HE'S HER BROTHER!" GEORGE HEYSINGER came in out of the wild storm, and shook the snow from his -coat, and sat down by one of the tables of the concert-saloon where the woman Kate was. He scanned the faces of all present with a gaze so searching that one said to him: "Who are you looking for?" "I am looking," he answered, , for a girl with black eyes and black curling hair, whom I saw come in here last night. She is not here, I see. Do you know where she is?" "Don't know who you mean." The tall woman overheard, and came and sat down by. Heysinger at the table. There was a black-and-blue mark on her cheek. "Clear out!" she said to the other girls, who stood about. "This is my friend." The girls went to their places, muttering that tall Kate was as savage as a bull-dog to-night.- "I know who you want," she said to Heysinger, in a low   tone.  "Order something, or Tom'll suspect you an't all right." "Very well," said Heysinger. "Bring some coffee." She obeyed, and sat down again by the table, with the coffee between them. " -   120       ONE POOR GIRL. "What do you want of her?" asked the woman. "Speak low, or they'll hear us." "I hardly know," he replied. "I supposed she would be here herself, and I came to talk with her." "Do you know her-?" "Not by name," he said. "I know her face." ( Her name is Sue,' said the woman. Heysinger looked at her long and hard. "What else?" he asked, in a husky voice. "I don't know. She said she was from the country. She came in here last night to look for work. She was as innocent as a baby. She had been walking the streets, and she was cold and hungry. She didn't know any more than a child that she walked into a trap when she came in here; but I saved her from it. It won't be for long, I suppose!" "Do you know where she is now?" "No. I left her with a- policeman, and she went to sleep in the station-house last night. She chose that rather than go down into hell along with me. God! what a day this has been! And she's been out in it, of course-out in all this storm, with nothing to eat, and nowhere to go." Heysinger bowed his head, and closed his eyes. The woman read his face with the intuitive perception of her calling. "You know her better than you pretend," she said. "You've wronged her yourself, perhaps?" He looked up with flashing eyes. "Oh! I don't mean that," said the woman. "She is as pure as a rosebud, I tell you! You are her brother, perhaps, and you have done her some wrong. I see it in your eyes. God pity you, if you have-but God pity   I ',ETHE SEARCH BEGUN.                121 her more, for she needs it more than you do! I wonder where she is to-night-dead perhaps-perhaps worse. She won't find another to do for her what I did-lightning don't strike twice in the same place! I got this for what I did." And she pointed to the wound on her cheek. "Who gave you that?" "Tom. He knocked me down and kicked me in the stomach, when he found I'd let the girl go." Heysinger arose, and placed a ten-dollar bill in the woman's hand. She twisted it in her fingers, half ashamed ; but she kept it. "For what you did," he said, "I thank you with all my heart. I shall try to find her, and I want you to do this for me: if you ever come across her' again, bring her to me, or take me to her. Here is my card--I trustyou with it " The words were carefully chosen, and they went straight to the one noble place that was left in the woman's heart. He trusted her. Then he went out into the stormy street. "He's her brother!" said the tall woman, as she fol- lowed him out with her eyes. Heysinger began to search for her that hour--and if he had been out in yonder ocean, under the black skies, rowing a life-boat about on the dreary waste of waters in the darkness, looking without light after the dead body of a drowned woman floating somewhere in the vast gulf, his search would have been no more hopeless. * .  .                 .   CHAPTER XXII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) THE POISON-BREATHERS-LOIS-THE   EVER-RECURRING QUESTION. BREATHNG poison is not a very uncommon thing, in this city, among all classes of people; but there is no large class which breathes so much poison as do those sewing-girls who work in their own homes, and in shops. The homes are in the vilest quarters of the town, gener- ally'; the shops are not seldom in the very cleanest quar- ters of the town, and yet they are full of poison. Another grave question has grown upon me since I set out upon this search, Whether those who murder the innocents by immersing them in these poison-baths, day after day, are not more guilty than those who pay them a tenth part of what they earn; or even almost as wicked as those who turn -them out empty-handed and despair- ing, to become the prey of infamy? The worst-of these poisonous shops seem to be those which are owned and conducted by woinen. Look into this establishment, where Madame Fripperie, the fashionable dressmaker, holds her court. It is a handsome building, in one of the streets of the Fifteenth Ward, on the very verge of japonicadom. Hour' on hour, throughout the day, the ,carriages of Fifth-avenue ladies drive up before her door. The liveried driver sits on the box   "OIS.          I 23 waiting, while his liveried mistress trips up the steps, to consult with Madame on the new silk contemplated, planned, or ip progress. While the momentous question is being discussed, let us slip down these stairs into the basement. This is the work-room. Faugh! how it smells! There is no attempt at ventilation. The room is crowded with girls and women, most of whom are pale and attenuated, and are being robbed of life slowly and surely. The roses which should bloom in their cheeks have vanished long ago. The -sparkle has gone out of their eyes. They bend over their work with aching backs and throbbing brows; sharp pains dart through their eyeballs; they breathe an atmosphere of death. Madame pays her girls four dollars a week. She herself lives in as fine a style as the richest lady she serves. I will take you to one more-less fashionable in its ex- ternals, but still having the fashionable world for its patrons-concerning which I have a-story to tell. Here are thirty girls, cooped up in an apartment twelve feet by twenty in dimensions, and lighted by one solitary win- dow. When the girls come to work in the morning, the air is already foul with pent-up poison. Do you know why? The work-room by day is a bed-room by nzght,. And this is the story-a true one: Lois L  was a beautiful young girl of seventeen, the daughter of a farmer in Western New-York. Her eyes were black and bril- liant; her lips were red with the rich life-blood of health; her complexion was -pure pink and white, with such a lustrous, blooming freshness as is seldom- seen even among farmers' girls. Lois was a superior seamstress; her fingers were nimble, and her work always beautiful. Especially was she skillful in embroidery-work; and in the old farm-house you may still see specimens of her hantli- - "   124       ONE POOR GIRL. work, the pride of her mother and the wonder of the farmers' wives for miles about. "That gal can darn a stockin'," her old father useed to say proudly, " so you can't find the spot where 'twas darned." Farmer L-- was poor, as farmers often are, and such remark- able talents seemed too valuable to be wasted in a rural neighborhood. Lois had a married sister living in New- York, and it was finally decided that the beautiful girl should come to the city and live with her. The sis- ter was not rich enough to feel able to board Lois for nothing -her husband was a working-man, with three children to care for--but the idea of being idle had never entered Lois's mind. She came to New-York to work, and it was not long before she found employment in the shop last named above. The prices there paid are of the best that are paid in the city: Lois received a dol- lar a day. That she should get rich very soon, the girl felt sure; and it does not take mnuch money to make a simple farmer's girl feel rich. It was two miles from her boarding-place to the shop; but such was her high health and strength, that she made nothing of walking this dis- tance morning and night. Three months had not passed before she found her strength unequal to the task, and thereafter she rode to and fro in the street-cars. Dark lines had come under her eyes; her complexion was losing its color, her form its roundness and. its springy life. In a word, the poison had entered her system, and was killing her by degrees. Still, in her pride, her anx- iety to make the " old folks " happy-she had sent home to her father more than one welcome bank-note -she concealed her sufferings and struggled on. One day she dropped from her chair heavily upon the floor of the dark, noisome apartment-was conveyed to her sister's home-   DEA TH.         125 and, when she left it again, a hearse stood at the door, and she was borne to her grave. She had not been one year absent from her country home. I record this story here just as I heard it, without ex- aggeration. It is not an extraordinary story. It is a natural result of existing evils, and has a thousand paral- lels in this city every year that passes. I tell the story because I chance to have learned its particulars. If it were possible for any one man to be cognizant of the like cases which occur, he would have a story of the sort for- every day of the year. Given an adequate cause, and the result is foregone. Poison will kill. If you hang your bedroom with a wall-paper whose figures -are of dark, it"   rich green, laden with venom, the result will be that you will die. How long you will be about it, will depend on such circumstances as your physical capacity for resisting the poisonous influence, and the amount of antidote you get in your daily life. The habit of drinking gin at the midday half-hour is said to be fearfully prevalent among the poor girls who work in these places. They seek thus to brace up their languid frames against the work of the long afternoon be- fore them. How intensely they dread the hours of labor, you can not realize. No galley-slave ever went more unwillingly to his toil, each day. Women's tears are al- ways eloquent; none ever spoke more keenly to my heart. than those I saw dropping from the eyes of a poor girl who bent in pain over her task. But my thought was a singular one, perhaps you will think, at that- moment. It was this: I hope the tears- will not soil the silk on which she sews. Was that heartless? Not when you know the reason of the thought: if the seamstress soils her work, she has the damage to pay. It is a dreadful mis-   !t26      ONE POOR GIRL. fortune to a poor girl when she gets a little spot on a dress--to pay for which, her wages are confiscated for whole days together. Of the better class of work-rooms for sewing-girls, I can not, perhaps, present a better example than that of Mr. Croesus, the well-known Broadway merchant. Cloaks are the staple manufacture, and the girls here are mostly employed as operators of sewing-machines. I wonder if the proprietor ever sets foot inside this part of hisestablishment. I wonder if he knows how the lady he employs as forewoman treats the poor girls; how she grinds them, as if she would pulverize them; wrings their sad hearts with pain, and gives them frowns and harsh- words, where smiles and cheer are needed, if they are ever needed in this world. " O the tears which that woman causes!" said to me one who knew. "Her very name is a terror to the sewing-girls of -New-York. They think of her as babies think of the big ogre who eats little boys for his dinner. It would be 'a blessing if some brave man would marry her, and take her away!"But Miss Grindem is a very valuable, woman to her employer. She saves so much! She increases the profits of the house very materially. It would be a great loss to part with her. The merchant knows, at least, that under Miss Grindem's care his cloak-room turns out more work for less money than it ever did before. A shilling here and a shilling there, stolen under various pretexts from among four hundred girls, week by week, makes a fine aggregate per annum.  But I have heard you were a not unkind- hearted man, Mr. Crcesus; bethink 'you, pray, what a shilling is to a poor girl! It is more to her than ten thousand dollars are to you. You could lose that sun? ten *times told, and it would not cause you to suffer one   WHERE OTHERS SUFTER.       I 127 privation. You would dine as well, dress as comfortably, live as grandly, as ever. But the poor girl's shilling often represents a meal-a meal which she goes without, if her shilling be taken. Volumes would be required, in which to follow all the poor girls to the shops where they are employed. There are hoop-skirt manufactories where, in the incessant din of machinery, girls stand upon weary feet all day long for fifty cents. There are photograph galleries-you pass them in Broadway admiringly-where girls " mount ' pho- tographs in dark rooms, which are hot in summer -and cold in winter, for the same money. There are girls who make fans--who work- in feathers--who pick over and assort rags for paper warehouses-who act as " strippers " in tobacco shops-who make caps, and paper boxes, and toys, and almost all imaginable things. There are milli- ners' girls, and bindery girls, and printers' girls-press- feeders, book-folders, hat-trimmers. It is not to be sup- posed that all these places are objectionable; it is not to be supposed that all the places where sewing-girls work are objectionable; but among each class there are very many-far too many--where evils of the gravest character exist-where the poor girls are wronged, the innocents suffer. There are places where there are not sufficient fires, kept in cold weather, and where the poor girl, coming in wet and shivering from the storm, must go immediately to work, wet as she is, and so continue all day. There are places where the " silent system " of prisons is rigidly enforced, where there are severe penalties for whispering to one's neighbor, and where the windows are closely curtained, so that no girl can look out upon the street- thus, in advance, inuring the girls to the hardships of   128       ONE POOR GIRI. prison discipline, in view of the possibility that they may some day become criminals! There are places where the employer treats his girls like slaves, in every sense of the word. Pause a moment, and reflect on all that signifies. As in the South " as it was," some of these girls are given curses, and even blows, and even kicks; while others are special favorites either of " the boss," or of some of his male subordinates, and dress well, pay four dollars a week for board, and fare well generally-on a salary of three dollars a week. It is a great wrong, if there were no other to say a word about, that a girl must work ten hours a day, or be debarred from working at all, in the close, ill-ventilated rooms whither they throng daily. Often, her home is miles away from her work. To get to the shop in time, she must be up long before daylight. Three mornings out of every six it will happen that she does not pause to eat any breakfast, but snatches a crust and hurries out into the keen morning air. With an empty stomach and a languid frame, she walks the long distance in a fever of anxiety lest she shall arrive too late; in which case there will be not only angry looks and harsh words from the strict overseer, which cut keenly into her trembling heart, but there will also be a deduction from the scant wages- and the loss of each cent " docked" from her pitiable pay is worse to -her than a whip-cut, almost. "Then why don't she take the horse-cars?" It certainly seems a very easy matter for any one to "take the horse-cars." You might as well ask why she don't set up a carriage. She CAN NOT. Twelve cents a day for rides! It is as impossible an expense to her as if it were twelve dollars, or twelve hundred-just because it   TEM'PTATION S G UISES.     129 is outside the limit of her pay. It costs her every cent of her wages to pay her board--meagre, dirty, dismal Five Points board, bordering close on starvation-and how is she going to pay for car-rides? She has to dress, too-somehow. You may well ask, How is she going to pay for clothing, or for any thing else, when she pays all her wages for board? Perhaps she sits down after eating her supper, to earn a few cents by shirt-making between that and bed-time; perhaps she does worse. Until you have lived the life of the working-girl, lady, reading this page, you can not know what their temptation is-how hard it is to keep away sin and shame. By all the doors at which temptation can enter to you, it enters to them; and by many other doors of which you know nothing by experience. It comes in the guise of friend- ship to them who are utterly friendless in the world. It comes in the guise of love--and do you think the poor girl never yearns for the caressing touch of love's palm on her aching brow? never longs to be folded in the com- forting embrace of love's strong arms? Ah! she knows the worth of love! It comes, too, through womanly vanity, as it does to her happier sisters, who sit higher in the social scale. But, in addition to these, temptation comes to the poor girl through the tortures of a hunger which gnaws upon the vitals-of-a cold which chills the young blood with its ice-of a weariness under which the limbs tremble, the head reels, the whole frame sinks prostrate. If you were starving, and could not otherwise get food, possibly you would steal it. I would. If hunger will rouse strong men to active crime, how easy must it be for it to lead the poor girl to a merely passive sin! Yet she   130       ONE POOR GIRL. struggles with a bravery which few would give her credit for--with this, as with all her temptations. There was Agnes --, a beautiful girl of seventeen, who resisted the temptation that came to her through her own employer. He discharged her. Unable to pay her board, she was turned into the streets. It was a bitter day in January. For four days she wandered the streets, looking for work--only for work. "I envied the boys who shoveled snow from the side-walks. I would gladly have done their work for half they got." Hungry, she pawned her shawl. When that was gone, she went twenty-four hours without a crumb, shivering through the streets. At night she slept in the station-house-without a bed, thankful for mere shelter. Again and again she was tempted; but she did not yield. She found work at last, and leads her cruel life still, patiently and uncom- plainingly. There was Caroline G--, who came from the West to New-York, fancying the great city would have plenty of work to give her. She, too, wandered the streets, and slept at night in the station-house. On the third day- which was the Christian Sabbath-mercy seemed to have . found herr. A gentlemanly-appearing person spoke to her, and, learning her want, offered to give her a place as seamstress in his family. He lived a short distance in the country, he said, and took her to a hotel to stay till next- day, when they would take the cars for his home. The hotel was an elegant one; the room given her was hung with silk and lace; but she preferred the hard floor of the station-house that night to its luxurious state, for her " protector " was a wolf in sheep's clothing. It is very dreadful to soil literature with such matters as these,'is it not?"Really, now, really--there's some   PIEVfNTION BETTER THAN CURE.      13I things mustn't be talked about, you know," said the beast of prey we had in the thumb-screws. There are worse things to be done in this world than soiling literature. It is a worse thing to shut our dainty eyes to the terrible evils that beset the path of the -poor girl. It is a worse thing to confine charity to curing, for- getting the charity of preventing. This ever-recurring question is here again. It refuses to be passed over. The true work of charity is not among the fallen, but among those about to fall. While charity is rescuing one lost one from the life of sin in which she dwells, a score are entering it from the ranks of the poor girls, tempted as no other creatures on earth are tempted. They are at the entrance of the ghastly avenue of sin, which, with all its tawdry attractions, is drawing them with a fatal enchantment; while the fiends of Starvation, Cold, and Cruelty second and assist that enchantment by their goadings. O Messieurs Philan. thropists! why do you stand far down this avenue, wait- ing to pick up, with painful effort, here and there one of the victims? Why do you not stand at the entrance in- stead? Here, a dollar will do more good than will a hundred there. Here, no coaxings are necessary; the poor girls will fly to your protection with eagerness, with tears of gratitude; and here your work of salvation is a permanent one. Fifteen thousand, they tell us, is the number of fallen women in New-York, among whom you can occasionally find one, less hardened than the rest, who is willing to be coddled into a renewal of a virtuous life. You take this one, shelter her, feed her, clothe her, teach her a remunerative trade, and get her a good situ- ation-after all of which, ten to one, she goes back to her life of vice. The poor girls are at least double the num- 12   I32       ON:E POOR  GIRL. ber of these women-perhaps triple; and nine tenths of them more than willing to retain their virtue, and to work hard and faithfully. When this throng no longer besets you, give all your efforts to the fallen. Till then, is not your. work a wasteful extravagance? It is certainly hu- mane, in its relation to the fallen; but is it just, in its re- lation to the poor girls? To reach your kind offices, they, too, must first fall! Let us bar the entrance, before all- else. The giddy life -of the town spins on unchecked; the spring comes, and the streets are alive with bustle; the summer, and the country wooes with its flowers; the autumn, and the air is laden with balm, the winter, with its merry parties in gay salons,-its carousals, its carnivals; and still the poor girl leads on her dismal life, dreading each day as it comes with its burden, asking her heart if in the future there is to be for her nothing but this-  nothing but toil, nothing but struggle, nothing but weari- ness.- Still the demon of Want hovers over her with its dark wings, watching for the stumble, the touch of sick- ness, which -shall bid him descend upon his victim with destruction. God save you, Susie Garland, from this fate! Wher- ever you are, my prayers follow you. They can find you, even though I can not!   , ran  .   CHAPTER XXIII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) CHRISTMAS NIGHT. IT is Christmas night. One's heart warms in the light of a happy home, on - Christmas day. The Christmas dinner; the Christmas cheer; the Christmas fire; the good old mother coming behind my chair to embrace me and give me the Christ- mas blessing-she has never failed to do that sinie I was a boy, I think. I was never away from her on Christmas day. All these things move one's heart to gentle con- fidences; it seems so natural to tell mother every thing on Christmas day! I suppose, too, the thoughts which crowded on me from without helped the confession. I could not help thinking about that poor little Tootsey, and wondering where she was. Ahi God help me to find her! I told mother all about Susie Garland. I know now that it is Susie, for I have been up to the old place, back of the Palisades. How dreary it was, in the winter snow! That was the last thing to spoil my Arcadia. Who would think it ever snowed in Arcady? The people who live at the old farm-house told me all they knew. It was quite enough. How my heart ached  To think that I should have wronged that little crea- ture so, after all! To think that I should have been per-   134       ONE POOR GIRL. mitted to be the instrument of Providence in rescuing her from sin and from death, and yet should have been so blinded by a theory that I should have let her slip back unaided to buffet the dark current of temptation and suffering-!  . The theory is none the less true, however, because I erred in its application. Mother wept over this story of mine. She has yawned over my theorizing! The simple story of one poor girl touched her motherly, womanly heart, because it was practical and direct. The awful perils and pains of thirty thousand aroused in the dear old soul nothing worse than a little sighing, a little shaking of the head. For Susie Garland she wept bitterly to-day. Yet she never saw her. I wonder where that poor child is to-night. Have you a Christmas, too, Susie?--somewhere out of the cold, I hope, at least. My searchings have thus far been quite without result. Stop! Have they? No; without result only as regards this simple quest of one poor girl-not without result as regards the knowledge I am gaining night by night. I am searching ceaselessly, at night. The claims of my art upon my time are fully met by the work I do in my studio in the day-time. At night, I sally forth, and search till midnight. I have not yet found Susie Garland, but I have found much beside. I have drawn nearer, as I long ago prom- ised myself, to the bare, throbbing heart of "poor hu- manity." The scenes I witness, the people I meet, as I go about among the poor, the ignorant, the squalid, the vile, and the criminal, all have their grave lessons to teach, as well as their humorous and disgusting aspects.   WHERE   SUSIE WILL   BE  FOUND.      135 It is in low life that I am to find this girl, if she is still suffering and struggling. And if she is not, God be praised!-then I shall not find her at all. But meantime I am enriching my journal. 12*  .                CHAPTER XXIV. (FROM HEYSINGER9S JOURNAL.) THE PRETTY WAITER-GIRLS--LOW LIFE IN BROADWAY- A MUSIC-CELLAR. I DECLARE that I am sometimes almost overwhelmed in wonder when I see these working-girls still keeping in virtue's path, when to yield is to be fed and clothed, and taken from this dreadful slavery to toil. None of them but know the road they can take, if they will. The streets are open.  They can sell themselves. And thousands of them do. It is not even surprising that they do. When any mere mortal has nothing-absolutely nothing--to keep him in the right path but the love of virtue, he is next-door to a saint if he do not go astray. I have looked through every waiter-girl: saloon on Broadway. She is not among them, and, so far, well. There are no virtuous waiter-girls here. Most of them make a pretense of virtue, but it is only a pretense. They will talk freely with you about their own concerns, and lament their hard lot: suggest reform to them, and see how they receive it One winks her eye and utters a slang phrase; another gives your words indecent mean- ing; another pretends not to hear, and walks away; an- other replies with a fierce accusation and a curse for all *S-   THE SALOON GIRLS.       I37 reform. None of them has faith in mankind--with good reason, perhaps. Pity the poor girl who fancies she can lead an honest life in one of these places! It is simply impossible. "They get good pay in these concert-saloons," said to me a benevolent lady who has done much for the poor working-girls. "They dress well, and feed well, and their work is comparatively nothing." The lady knew very little about them, it would seem. The poor girls who work in these underground hells do not get good pay, and their work is not light. They are confined in these noisome cellars, thick with tobacco- smoke and foul with poisonous odors, till two o'clock in the morning; in some places till five o'clock. Their pay is four dollars to six dollars a week; higher figures, cer- tainly, than thousands of working-girls get, but, for two reasons, lower, in effect. The first of these two reasons is, that the waiter-girl must dress with some degree of at- tractiveness. The second, and the most weighty, is, that she must pay a high price for board. Going home long after midnight, she must live somewhere in the vicinity of the saloon. Then, the woman who, having taken a -girl to board, finds that she comes home after two o'clock every night, draws her own conclusions at once. That girl must pay well for her board, if, indeed, she be not turned out of the house without a word. It will scarcely help the matter, if the girl explains that she is employed at a concert-saloon. The woman knows very well what "pretty waiter-girls " are. "Those creatures" must pay for what they have, and pay roundly. The result is, that the waiter-girl's occupation will not support her. The next result is, that there are no virtuous girls in the con- cert-saloons of Broadway.   138       ONE POOR GIRL. I found myself in a curious place last night. I followed a woman whose face was pinched and worn, and who was hurrying along through the storm with a bundle under her arm. I fancied her a sewing-woman. She was clad in a worn and faded calico dress, and a rusty plaid shawl, and appeared to be about forty years of age. She de- scended a damp stone stairway, where a dismal jet of gas was flickering, and disappeared through a private door. It was early in the evening, and I was accosted by a coarse-looking man, who informed me that the " show wouldn't begin for half an hour yet," and invited me to "come around by'n-by." So the woman was a performer in the " show." I take you with me, reader, when I go back to the place, later in the evening. It is in Broadway that we find this haunt of low life. We are not accustomed to associate the idea of low life with Broadway. That street possesses some of the proud- est features of New-York life, and we ordinarily think of it only as a brilliant promenade, a wonder-world of beau- tiful things, and a crowded thoroughfare for the vehicles of commerce. That it is full of wickedness-full of snares for unwary feet-full of the haunts of pleasure which the moral world sets its face against, we all realize; but these things are of those which present the " goodly out- side " that " falsehood hath." It is only after dark that the low-life snakes crawl in Broadway. In the day-time there are no signs of them. Now the long lines of street-lamps twinkle up and down the way, for miles on either hand; they lose them- selves in dim distance. The shop-windows glow with attractiveness. - The sidewalks are thronged with pedes- trians. The theatres have lighted the- gas in the colored   ENTERING THE CELLAR.        139 glass letters over their broad and gilded entrances. Gayly-attired people are crowding into them. There is nothing of low life visible to the untutored eye. Pause here at the corner of a street within sight of two or three of the largest and gayest theatres of the metro- polis. A cheap transparency is the only sign, given of the haunt we are about to enter; though from beneath our feet there arises the thrumming of a twangy harp, the scraping of a discordant violin, and the shrieking of an asthmatic clarionet. We plunge down the stone stair- way, and, turning to the right, enter a doorway, descend- ing another flight of steps inside. We are standing in a - filthy cellar, where the liquor-bar before us at once tells an eloquent story. If you could banish liquor from these places, they could not exist a month. This bar-room is the ante-room of the entertainment hall. The performance is free. Let us enter, then. A door-keeper stops us. "Check, gents?" We do not understand. We have no check. "You takes a drink at the bar, gents," the man ex- plains, " and you gits yer checks." With this preliminary only can we effect an entrance. I turned to the bar and asked for whisky. A decan- ter of poison was set before me, from which I nearly filled the smallglass tumbler. "You'takes a stiff horn," said the bar-tender, surveying the glass. I paid for the whisky, took my check, then emptied the glass on the dirty floor.  The bar-tender was wroth. "What's that fur?" he demanded. !?       42     -     "O       ONE POOR GIRL. "That's my style of drinking,"-said I. "I'd like to drink all the liquor in New-York in that way.", ( And so you could if you paid for it," he said, with a shrug of his brawny shoulders. The answer was a complete epitome of the temperance question. We can never cure the great evil till we shut up the distilleries. Indeed, it gives the key to all reform whatever. Prevention is better than cure. Churches and school-houses are better than 'prisons and gallows- trees. There is no effective legal remedy for crime but the closing up of the entrance to its avenues. We enter the entertainment hall. It is a long, low room, dimly lighted, thick with tobacco-smoke, and full of men and boys. There are no females in this audience. lAt the rear end of the room is a cheap stage, erected of boards and wall-paper, and adorned with newspaper cuts. At one side is a jingling piano and a dismal violin, which. are murdering harmony with listless laziness, to the tune of "Tramp! tramp! tramp!" while the feet of the audi- ence keep step with a steady jar. On the walls are a couple of obscene pictures. There is also painted on the wall, in letters that stagger drunkenly over ten feet of space, the legend, "Look out for the Grand Burleske on the Chrystain Marters." A rude board fence is stretched across the room from side to side, dividing it into two compartments. That in front is reserved for moneyed spectators who can pay an extra fee of five cents; that in the rear is crowded with newsboys and other gamins, rag- ged, dirty, and profane. The whole scene is worthy of the Five Points or the purlieus of the Fourth Ward; and yet it is in Broadway, the rumble of whose incessant-going wheels is dimly heard above these cellar walls. A bell tinkles; a curtain goes up with a jerk, and we   THE FEAI, L E MNS TRELS.     i41I see seated in a row upon the stage five persons-two negroes, (that is, white men with blackened faces,) one white man, and two white women in bare shoulders and 'short dresses. From the bill in our hands we learn that these are called "( the female minstrels." From the same bill we also learn that " new novelties are in preparation." The performance commences. The piano rattles, the violin squawks, the white man on the stage tinkles a steel triangle, and the negroes respectively jingle a tambourine and a pair of what are technically termed " bones." The women sit with folded hands. Presently they begin to sing. It is music murdered. Then the negroes utter stale witticisms. These are followed by more songs, more antics, more stale wit. Any thing more profoundly dismal, from the pleasure- seeker's point of view, it would be difficult to find, than this whole performance. While from the moralist's point of view, or even from that of the mere student of human nature, it is mournful and depressing to the last degree. This rough, uncouth, half-savage audience laughs; but the laugh evidently finds no responsive echo in the hearts of those two miserable women. I saw one of them -when she entered, you remember. She was a woman of mid- dle age,- her face lined with care. Now, as she sits on the stage, her face is daubed with paint, a curly wig is on her head, and-her attire is that of a child of ten years; but it is easy to see, underneath the smirk she puts on here, how hollow and dismal this life is to her! When not herself talking or singing, she relapses into a profound gravity and even sadness of demeanor that speaks volumes. By my side sat a man whom I looked at again and again with curious interest. Had I met him at church, this man, he would not have attracted my attention for   i 142   -  ONE POOR GIRL. an instant. But here, he looked so quiet, so gentlemanly, so thoroughly respectable, that I could not help wonder- ing what had brought him here. I tried to discover in his manner some indication of an underlying motive- such, for instance, as that which accounted for my own presence-but I failed to discover any. He seemed to be simply enjoying the performance, and that as much as any body present. He was a riddle. What was my as- tonishment when by and by this man turned to me and called me by name! "I don't know you, sir," said I. "But I know you," said he smilingly. "I've seen you around, before; and I know your business, though you don't know mine. That's the difference between us. You needn't look so puzzled, though.' Let me take your hand." He conveyed my hand inside his coat, and placed it upon a metal shield upon his breast. He was a detective policeman. We exchanged a few words of conversation, and he pointed out to me--with his eyes only, however-the man , he was going to arrest. ' Those five fellows with him are all well-known knucks and koniackers," (pickpockets and counterfeiters,) " but I've got nothing to do with them just now. There's no -particular charge against 'em." "Why don't you make the arrest, may I ask?" "Because I don't want a muss in here, and he's safe enough. I'd rather pull him when he comes out. It's the best way." I did not stay to see the performance concluded. It was too depressing, and I longed for the open air.   CHAPTER   XXV. THE DEBT PAID. MRS. MOYNAHAN'S place was growing steadily worse and worse-thanks to the landlady's black bottle. It must be growing very bad indeed when Mary Bell should complain.  Mary was a girl of peculiarly sweet disposition, some- what like Susie Garland in this, but not like Susie in weakness and sensitiveness of nature. Born in New- York, she had preserved her decency through the strong trials which beset the path of such girls always. Her father and mother were both drunkards of the vilest cha- racter. They were habituds of the Five Points. Since her tenth year, Mary had never seen either of them. Such are the wide separations of daily occupation in this vast city, that the parents and the child had never mnet in all this time, though their haunts were not far removed in point of physical distance. Mary Bell's life was the life of the industrious, self- respecting poor girl, who adheres to virtue at every cost. The life of her parents was the life of two bloated, be- sotted, vicious, and disgusting animals. The distance between these two lives was as wide as the world, there- fore. The poor girl who works in the shop from   seven o'clock in the morning till six o'clock at night, and whose evenings are passed in' earning what more she can by 13' xF    "4 OWE POOR GIRL. sewing in her chamber, has few concerns outside her daily toil. There are few episodes in her career, except those which are'born of interruption in her daily work, and which therefore bring distress, perhaps despair, possi- bly ruin and infamy, in their dark train. The episode of Susie Garland was one which was not likely to be forgotten in the Moynahan abode. It was Mary Bell who had said to Susie Garland, "Come home with us," and who, taking her'by the hand that evening in the Bowery, had brought her to Mrs. Moynahan to become a boarder. When the night which saw Susie wandering through the avenues of hunger and despair, down into the concert- saloon, from which she escaped by chance--when that night"came and Susie returned not to Mrs. Moynahan's, on Mary Bell fell the burden of the widow's anger. "Sure, it was yersilf brought her," said Mrs. Moyna- han, "and it's you I'll be lookin' to for the money I lost by her-the price of two weeks' boord, beside the dollar I tuk out of me stockin' and gev her." The other girls, girl-like, joined in reproaching Mary. Especially severe was Kate Carter in her comments on the case. "I knew just how it would be, Mary Bell. If you re- member, I said to you, when that creature spoke to us that night in the Bowery-I said to you, ' Come on; what does she want of us 2' But you would hear her story-and then you would bring her home with you. Now you see what has come of it. She has run away without paying her board, or even saying a word about paying it." Mary Bell was not moved by these taunts. "I tell you plainly, Kate," she said, "I will never be- lieve any ill of that poor little thing, until I know what   ,BRAVE MARY BELL.        145 neither you nor Mrs. Moynahan knows yet. There's no telling what has happened to her, but whatever it is, she's the sufferer. As for the money she owes you, Mrs. Moy- nahan, I will pay it myself if I have to work my fingers to the bone to get it." This made the girls ashamed, and at last they said--for they all loved Mary-that she should not pay it alone; they would all contribute. Only Kate Carter refused to join in this generous act. She tossed her head, and said it was no fault of hers that "that creature " had been brought home, only to play this trick on her benefactors. "It's-my belief she is no better than she might be, for all her soft ways and her milk-an'-water face." In time the money was paid; but Mary Bell was not released from the odium of her work. Whenever Mrs. Moynahan was rather more under the influence of her beverage than usual, she had a ready taunt for Mary- who, on her part, made no answer beyond a quiet, "Yes, Mrs. Moynahan--but I have never felt-sorry for it." When things went on from bad to worse at the Moyna- han board, all the girls found words in which to deplore the fact before Mary did. And when at last Mary -spoke too, things had indeed come to such a pass that they were no longer endurable. "I don't have enough to eat, Mrs. Moynahan," said Mary. "I am faint for want of food, almost all the time. The other girls say the same. We can not go on in this way. You must really provide more food, or I must go somewhere else to live." "Ah! wurra," said Mrs. Moynahan, ' sure it's boddered to death I am; an' if you lave me, Mary dear, I'll have to break up me boordin'-house."   "6       ONE POOR' GIRL. "We can not take you on our shoulders as a burden to support, Mrs. Moynahan," said Mary firmly. "We have hard enough work to sustain ourselves. You can live as we live, no doubt." There was an improvement in the dinner provided that night. There was a sufficiency of bread and potatoes, and the tea was not diluted to{ utter tastelessness. The improvement did not last long, however. The girls were complaining as bitterly as ever before the week was out. - At last Kate Carter, and one other of the girls, on leaving home to go to the shop one morning, carried their bundles with them, and said to Mrs. Moynahan that she need not buy any swill for them that day, since they had found a better place. Mrs. Moynahan followed them down the stairs, cover- ing them with opprobrious epithets. At the foot of the stairs, which opened on the street, stood a pale, beautiful girl, clad in a dress of coarse stuff, faded and worn but neatly patched, and this girl held out her thin hand to Kate Carter. "Why, where did you come from?" said Kate, blushing at remembrance of her abuse of Susie during these weeks of her absence. Before Susie could answer, Mrs. Moynahan appeared in the doorway, crying, "Good riddance to yees fer bad rubbish that ye are, an' it's hopin' I am " She stopped short, and her eyes opened wide, at sight of Susie Garland. "Heavens above uz!" she cried. Kate Carter and her companion went off down the street, laughing and looking back.   SUSIE IS WELCOMED BACK.      147 "I have come back to pay you, Mrs. Moynahan," said Susie. "Here is the money." "Ah! bodder the dirty money, darlin'," said the widow with a sudden gush of generosity. "Come up-stairs an' see yer frind Mary Bell." She took Susie by the hand which contained the money, and led her up-stairs, talking loudly all the way. "Mary's not gon' out yit," she said, " an' it's plased she'll be to see ye. Sure ye've come in a good time, wid thim two girls goin' away, that's al'ays boddered me more than all me other boorders together, an' I'm glad they're gon'. An' it's no frinds to you they was; an' Kate has niver mintioned yer name since ye be'n gon', save to call ye ivery dirty thing she cud lay her tongue to. But Mary al'ays stands up fer ye, an' it's glad I am ye've come back, and I'm hopin' it'll be long before ye l'ave us agin'. So here we are, dear," and Mrs. Moynahan quietly relieved Susie of the 1" dirty money " as she opened the door. Mary had her bonnet and shawl on. She was nearly ready to go out. When she turned about and saw Susie Garland she uttered a cry of delight, and the two girls embraced with tea rs in their eyes. Susie's heart was deeply touched by the warmth of her welcome, where she had looked for reproach and con- tumely. These were her common experience, even where she had done less, as she fancied, to deserve them; and words of love and kindness meeting her in this hour moved her heart to its depths. As for Mary, she had so championed this girl in these weeks when none had said a- good word for the absent one, that the feeling she felt was a nobler one than she knew. She thought she was so glad, because Susie had proved herself a true and worthy girl, by coming 13*   "8   .   -ONE POOR GIRL. back-and coming back in the sad garb which told an eloquent story of virtue and struggle. But we love the thing we have championed, and Mary was drawn to Susie by a feeling so strong that from that day they were to be inseparable on earth.            q .,    CHAPTER XXVI. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) HEYSINGER ADOPTS A DISGUISE-THE JEW RASCAL-- ABOUT THE ISRAELITES. IT is evident that in order to see low life festering in its normal condition, in the vile quarters of the town, an ela- borate disguise is necessary. In your ordinary garb, you are out of keeping with the scenes in which you mingle -a target for all eyes. The wretched people with whom you converse will not act naturally. Some put on the hypocritical airs of religion, whimpering semblances of misfortune and worthy distress, who are the most arrant rogues imaginable. Beggars practice upon you their cus- tomary arts. Thieves will draw a long face and prate, and pick your pocket a moment after. For the most part, however, you will be met with rebuffs. I have resolved to wear a disguise of rags and dirt in my further investigations. It is fortunate that I have this eyrie of mine to sally forth from-otherwise, I should be' puzzled how to manage it. But with the aid of this "room, I can change my dress, on any night I choose for an excursion, and none of my friends will be the wiser. I have got my preparations all made now. Yonder on- the chair is hanging the suit in which I am to play the part of a vagabond. It consists of a ragged coat, a   I50       ONE POOR GIRL. ragged slouch hat, a ragged pair of trousers, and a red -:flannel shirt. There is no vest; but I shall wear my ordinary vest under the red flannel shirt, and in its pockets carry my watch and money. The shirt being. buttoned up to the neck, no one will -be the wiser. Shall I carry a pistol or a knife? No. These are a coward's weapons. If I am a coward, I have no business to venture unaccompanied into the slums and purlieus. I am blest with two strong arms, and the boxing lessons I took that winter in London shall serve me if I am com- pelled to resort-to physical defense. What a thing of externals man is! The clothes he wears are, after all, the regulators of his position; as he passes about among men. This heap of low-life toggery will make George Heysinger a vagabond and a rowdy, in the eyes of those who pass. However, I know the man under them, and thank God I can respect him. I bought my costume of certain Jews in Chatham street. I have been studying that nationality for a long time. My note-book is full of jottings. That hook-nosed, flat-lipped, little Israelite of whom I bought this flannel shirt was one's very ideal of a sly and heartless villain. Some poor girl made this shirt, I dare say, and got five or six cents for it. It is well made, too; but the stuff is so poor I can stick my thumb through it. I paid him a dollar and a half for the shirt. "Ma shoul!" he cried, dancing up and down in a set of frenzy of cupidity, "Only a dollar an' a harf for dAt shirt? Vy, I pays sheventy-five- cents just for makin' 'em." "Sevqnty-five cents a dozen?"I said. "No! Sheventy-five cents apiece."   TH^E JE W RAif UA L.      I51 One look in his eyes was enough. I told him he lied, and turned to go. He screamed his despair, and begged me to take the shirt for a " dollar an' a harf," for he must live; and when I complied, urged me to come again. There are rascals of all nationalities, but there is no rascal like a Jew rascal-a fact which, being so well known, has no doubt unjustly toned the popular idea re- garding all Jews. Your "Christian " rascal has other pur- suits than rascality in his leisure hours; but your Jew ras- cal has no purpose in life but this. It is pleasure and business, both, to him. All his energies are directed upon it with a perseverance, a grim-death persistence, an inten- sity, an absolute unscrupulousness, peculiar to his nation- ality. The end of all his knavery, extortion, villainies double-dyed, is founld in the moneys. He knows no such law as " easy come, easy go." He does not steal to spend in riotous living, but to hoard. It is money's self that he worships, and not what money will buy. He gets it only that he may gloat over it. A curiously interesting people! It was their story that we heard read when we were children, first of all; and as we look upon them to-day, we see prophecy ful- filled. It is no light reflection, with men who do re- flect, that in looking in the faces of Israelites to-day we see portraits of the very men who walked the streets of Jerusalemin the days when Christ lived, so perfectly is the Jewish physiognomy preserved to the present time. The Hebrews who trade in the marts of our city now have the same faces, bear the satne names, preserve the same reli- gious customs, as the Hebrews of old. They mingle with us everywhere; they jostle us in Broadway; they specu- late with us in Wall street; they invade our homes in search of possible pence; they dwell alike in the Five   152       ONE POOR GIRL. Points and in. Fifth avenue; everywhere they are with us,' but nowhere of us. That the Israelites, of New-York and of every city of every land, are beyond all other people in their inordinate lust for gain, is a fact that admits of little question. For hundreds of years, these people have been so oppressed and persecuted, so tabooed and outlawed in the commu- nities where they have struggled to live, that it is hardly surprising that they have become permeated through and through with the ambition of getting money. All other ambitions have been denied them. Money alone could become a power in their hands; money alone could buy them liberty and life-life in a poor, hunted, half-tolerated way. Denied all possibility of political preferment, for centurns together--the walks of literature and art, of all high and ennobling ambitions, closed against them-no- thing was left them but the pursuit of wealth. Outside of their home circles, the world contained for them no- thing human, nothing softening or elevating in its influ- ences. Society was their foe; it naturally became their prey. Centuries of this bitter course of tuition could not fail of thrilling the very life-blood of the Israelite with the fierce thirst for gold. Better days have greeted this people since America became an asylum for the oppressed of all nations; they have found freedom here, (and, since we have set the example, in England also,) and have not been shut out from our humanities, it is true; but the work of centuries can not be changed in a day. The charac- teristics of the Israelite are fixed, and will not undergo alteration while this generation walks the earth at least. Amalgamation would help to effect a change; but the Israelites will not amalgamate with other peoples. Blood flowing' in the same channels for ages will keep its   "OVE OF MONEY.        153 -nature undiluted, and the Jew will remain a Jew till the last. Intense love of money animates alike the breast of the wealthiest Israelite importer and of the dirtiest little raga- muffin who vegetates ini the filth of the city's slums. The art of seducing greenbacks from Christian pockets is second-nature to both. It is a clear case of " nasciitr, non fit." The Jew clothier in Chatham street, who button- holes the unwary countryman, can flatter and wheedle to perfection; but he finds his rivals in the highest circles of the Hebrew world. (High circles exist in New-York for the Israelite, as well as for you, good-reader.) He is no more au fait in the art of wheedling than the up-town belle who gets hold of you at a fancy-fair. Talk of the persuasiveness of American ladies at their fandlfairs! Till you have seen the beautiful Rebecca at a Jewish fair, practicing the science which lies deep-rooted in her very nature, you have not acquired an approximate idea of what can be accomplished by feminine art at such places. Come with me to the Jewesses' fair to-night in Fifth avenue, on the corner of Fourteenth street. The room is densely thronged; no one will notice us if we go in quietly. Mistaken supposition! We have no sooner passed the door than we are attacked by a daughter of Israel, before whose dark, oriental eyes, welling with the dreamy depth of far-remote ages, all our obstinacy melts away like the daintiest frost-fringe before the warm south wind's breath. Beautiful as the storied maiden who echoed from the parapet the defiance of the Knight Templar, in a voice of cooing softness she beseeches us to take a chance in the drawing of the lovely Afghan that hangs upon her snowy arm, and murmurs that it is " only faive dollars." If you think of Chatham street that mo-   154       O3rE POOR GIRL. ment-you are a wretch! You decline, in a very decided tone, to do any such thing as that which she asks of you; you inform her that you have no possibletse for an Afghan--that you would not know what to do with it if you had it--that you have no money; and you essay to move on, as gently as may be. Vain purpose! She stands like an angel in your path; she coos forth the sweet word " charity;" she gets thrillingly close to your side, and begs to know your name, that she may write it down with her little pencil in her little book; her breath is as balmy as an April morning; the diamond on her finger flashes bedazzlement; from the laces on her bosom rises an intoxicating odor as from a vase of spring flowers; you may as well do it first as last, for it is your fate. WLBou surrender your name to her; with her little pencil she misspells it out of all possible recognition in her little book; she takes your money and is gone. Only to give place to another-more beautiful, more seductive, more irresistible-who breathes soft music in your giddy ear concerning a china tobacco-box of rare design, " to keep that in," she tells you, " which all gentlemen love." That she pronounces it "luf" does not help your case. Your name-misspelled in quite another style this time-- goes down as a candidate for the possible possession of the tobacco-box; and houri the third succeeds her. Be wise, and beat a retreat before your pocket-book is emptied. Pause not to see the Afghan and the tobacco-box " drawn;" you will get neither. Now, if you look about upon the children of Israel here gathered, you must be also one of the unreflecting if these oval faces, these dark, deep eyes, these olive com- plexions, these luxuriant tresses, and richly rounded figures do not unfold the pages of the past to you. Here   BL UE BLOOD.        155 are the descendants of the patriarchs. In no other sphere of New-York life, even the wealthiest and most exclusive, will you see so many faces bearing that indescribableim- press which men term aristocratic. It is true- of both sexes in a measure, but it is especially true of the female sex. You may talk of your old Knickerbocker blood; it is a thing-of yesterday when compared with the blood in these veins, which has flowed in an unbroken channel for ages. Here ancestry can be traced back, through myriads of generations, to the patriarch who went out from Egypt to obey the mandate of God himself, to build up his "children and his home." Yonder Israelite maiden, as lovely as a dream of olden story, who bends above a bank of flowers to hear the whispered words breathed in her ear- by a curled Hebrew darling with mustaches, bears in her classic face the evidence of her descent from that haute noblesse "of whom, as concerning the flesh, Christ came," and whose king was Ehyeh-asher-eyeh, the I-am-that-I-am. Who shall say that my old friend Solomons, companion of my heart and sharer of my pocket-money in the days when his father kept the clothing-store on the corner, but who forgets me now that he is a dealer in diamonds and a roller in riches, can not trace his ancestry back to the' foot of that throne on which his wise and mighty name- sake sat, in the days of Jerusalem's glory? "Sol " is a little man-most Jews are little, by the way-but he has the oriental eyes, the aristocratic face, and it is no difficult feat of fancy to imagine him-or his ancestral likeness- walking the halls of King Solomon's palace, roaming in his wonderful gardens, kneeling in his great temple. I trace his pedigree down the aeons; I see his father's glory in the days of Jerusalem's pride-their woes in their after "   56       ONE POOR GIRL. abasement; I see them the slaves of ancient Rome, with gyves upon their wrists; the outcasts wandering up and down the earth ; ever haughty, ever obstinate, ever un- bending, though suffering direst persecutions, even as they persecuted Christ; straying to the green shores of the New World in the last quarter of the eighteenth century, and breathing in our land once more the blessed air of freedom; establishing their lares et penates in Gotham, and renewing the religious rites they practiced in Jerusalem anciently; till I reach the present day, and the descendant of great prophets stands at last behind his counter selling diamonds with great profit, and I dare to clap him on the back and hail him "Old Sol." Madam, the good Yankee housewife, who has reminis- cences -of having sold her husband's second-best unwhis- perables one day in the early period of her wedded life, to a young Israelite with a big basket, rich with gaudy mantel ornaments, who rode down contemptuously, and annihilated before her very face, the testimony of her very eyes, and made her think' the unwhisperables aforesaid a bundle of worthlessness, " all tattered and torn "-madam, I say, who remembers this, and the paltry gilt vase she got, (and which the first baby luckily knocked over and broke with its excursive little fist one day,) will hardly read with much sympathy these romantic rhapsodies con- cerning the children of Israel. Sooth to say, it was not a walk along Chatham street this cold winter day, witness- ing hooked-nosed clothes dealers, with wide-open doors, dancing up and down before their dens to keep their toes warm, which awakened this strain of reflection, and I have wandered far from the neighborhood of the rascal who sold me my flannel shirt. Co'me back to Chatham street and the Bowery, then.   T-IE LOW-LIFE HEBRE W      157 The face of the Israelite here is not that of the cultivated and well-bred Hebrew. It has unmistakably the character- istics of the nationality, certainly; but so has the low Irish face of the Five Points unmistakably the characteristics of the land of Brian Boru, yet it is hardly the face of the Irish statesman, patriot, or scholar, nor even that of the pure- hearted Irish peasant maiden on the shores of her native lakes. Here, the noses are preternaturally hooked, the eyebrows preternaturally black and heavy, the complexion swarthy to the last degree, the hair as thick and black, and almost as curly, as a Timbuctoo negro's. Nearly every face is a map of villainous cunning. These fellows lie in waiting for their prey; and it is no mere figure of speech to say that they do. Yonder stands a hook- nosed little wretch, with hideous sore eyes, half hid- den behind a coat that hangs at the side of his door- way; he glares out upon the passers-by like a cat watching for a mouse, or, still better, like a particularly loathsome spider watching for a fly. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Absalom, Melchizedek, and Moses, are ranged along here in expectant rows, the goods of each store so abutting on those of its neighbor, that, to a careless glance, they seem all one grove of ready-made clothing. The garments are lavishy displayed and profusely labeled. "Very Superior " is the legend on a shoddy coat, through which you could run your thumb; "All the Rage" speaks from the bosom of a vest of last year's fashion; "Super- fine" dangles from the bottom of a garment as coarse as coarse can well be; and "Very Cheap " is the label of a pair of trousers that would be dear at any price. It is amusing to find in the proprietor of one of these places a genius who drops his h's, and mixes the cockney dialect with the Hebrew accent most ludicrously-who was born   158       ONrE POOR GIRL. and reared in London, but who is a Jew to the back- bone. You may walk down Chatham street every day of the year, and not one of these men will say a word to you if you walk straight ahead, like one familiar to the path; but, linger a little-do so much as glance at an article, as if you-contemplated buying-one is at your elbow in a twinkling!"You vants a good coat? you vants a vest? a pair pantsh? Valk in! I sells you." And if you do walk in, he most likely will sell you, with a ven- geance. Newly arrived sailors, and raw youths from the country, are the victims most industriously sought for and most profitably bled by these rascals. It might be sup- posed that if Moses should find, after having button- holed a " cushtomer," that he is a member of that guild of whom Sam Slick was a shining example--the shrewd, sharp, acute down-east Yankee, who is popularly supposed to be the only human on the face of the round globe who can " do " a Jew-our Israelite would let him pass. But no; Moses lets nothing pass. It is true, he does business on the principle of getting enormous profits; but he is the last man to despise a cent. If he can not make ten dollars, he will make ten cents-or one cent--or half a cent-rather than let slip a chance to sell. All is fish that comes to his net; and though he may be fishing for sturgeons, he will never drop a minnow overboard. Therefore, be our Yankee never so sharp, he is profitable to Moses so long as a cent is to be made out of him. - I well remember an incident in the experience of a friend of my own. It was some ten years ago, when he was "fresh from the country," that in his walks he came into Chatham street, He had no intention of buying any thing, but stopped out of curiosity and began to'examine   STRIKING A BARGAIN.       I 59. a pair of cotton pantaloons (it was summer) that hung by the door. Instantly Moses was at his elbow, rubbing his hands. , Valk in, valk in," said he eagerly. "What is the price of these?" the stranger asked, fin- gering the pantaloons. "Three tollar," said the Jew; " sheep art' goot." Stranger looked at the goods suspiciously. "( You take him for two tollar?" Still the stranger hesitated. "Say! you vant that pants? You may have him for fourteen shillingsh." "Well, no," was the reply. "I'll call again." "Vat you gives me for dat pants?" "Oh! I'll- see about it." And he made as if he would examine the goods of a next door neighbor, who was watch- ing eagerly. "Say! you gives me twelve shillingsh for dem pants, an' take 'em 'long." And he bustled about to take them down. Stranger was still dubious. "Here! you vant dem pants for nine shillingsh, an' I doos 'em up." He had now got his customer by the button-hole; but a shake of the head came in answer. "Den vat you vill give-eh?" wreathing his face into an agonizing look, and dancing up and down in his eager- ness and distress; " vat you will give?" "Well," came the slow reply, "I'll give you He stopped; Moses danced. "You gives a tollar?" "-I don't think they're worth it, but I'll throw away seventy-five cents on the things!" "*   T6o       ONE POOR/ GIRL. Moses clapped his hand to his forehead, uttering some- thing very like a howl of dismay. The stranger turned to go. "Here," came the angry response; " you gits it!"And he wrapped the trousers hurriedly in an old newspaper, and thrust them on his customer with the air of a martyr. The money was paid, and the customer departed, but not without hearing Moses cry out after him, moved by unconquerable instinct," Come again! I sells you sheep! I gives it away!" %   CHAPTER XXVII. (FROM HEYSINGEBR'S JOURNAL.) MORE ABOUT THE JEWS. THERE are Israelites out of Chatham street, but so far as their week-day pursuits are concerned, the life-scenes that can be drawn outside of that neighborhood are not picturesque. Wealthy Israelites hold place in all our great wholesale streets, dealing largely in all the staples of trade, from boots and shoes to Yankee Notions. You find them in Duane, Chambers, Warren, and " all along down," while Maiden Lane has an especially large num- ber, in its fur-dealing houses. There are also much- respected Israelites in the Various professions--in journal- ism, in medicine, in the law, upon the stage, and of course in the ministry. There are few more estimable men in their social and intellectual character than many of the Jewish rabbis of New-York. In their social character, there certainly are no more thoroughly agreeable and estimable people -than the Israelites. Of course I speak not of the viler sort; Christian or Jewish, the Five Points resident is not to be taken as representing any nationality among us. But if you were to go into the homes of the Israelites who dwell in various up-town streets, you would find much to awaken your admiration. I do not mean to discriminate in favor of the merely wealthy; I allude to the mechan-   162       ONE POOR GIRL. ics and small dealers who dwell in Avenues B and C, and in the cross streets, from Grand to Fiftieth, on the east side, no less than to the rich residents in Fifth Avenue neighborhoods. One can not help admiring the faithfulness with which the Israelites of New-York to-day keep up their ancient observances, like their fathers before them. No matter how industriously they may have fol- lowed their master passion throughout the week--no matter how diligently labored in factories or in stores- the eve of the Sabbath finds them at rest. The table, covered with its snow-white cloth, is placed before the windows with lights burning upon it, and the Rachels and Jacobs are clad in their best attire. This is the hour of the weekly feast, when the table is set with the best that their station may afford--much as we Christians gene- rally dine a little 'more sumptuously on Sunday than on the other days of the week-and the bread and wine for the Moutze and Kzdduatlsh are at hand. After the tradi- tional festival, if it is pleasant summer weather, the fami- lies may be seen sitting in true Oriental custom on their door-steps, chatting pleasantly. Jewish maidens prome- nade with their lovers, or perhaps visit Central Park, or elsewhere seek the fresh air, with their flowing locks, olive complexions, and bright-hued garments. Though adhering to .the fashions of the time, the ancient love of the Jewess for bright colors is as strong to-day as it was when Queen Esther wore her brilliant robes and jewels; and crimsons, scarlets, and all flashing hues vie with the bedazzlements of imitation jewelry, and "California diamonds," in turning the heads of the curled and scented Hebrew youths. The busiest day of the week among Christian/traders is the day on which the devout Israelite washes his hands of money-getting, and closes his doors.   ISRAELITE BEGGARS.        163 Many, of course, " keep the promise to the eye and break it to the faith," (there are hypocrites everywhere,) by doing business quietly, with closed shutters, on their Sab- bath; and it has of late been a cause of considerable scandal among the Israelites of New-York, that large numbers of the rich Jewish traders in Broadway openly desecrate their Sabbath by doing business on Saturday. There is no attempt made by Jewish dealers in Broadway, or the wholesale streets, to do business on Sunday; but on the east side, in Chatham street, the Bowery, and all the eastern avenues, they pursue their usual week-day avocations on Sunday with entire freedom. It is a striking fact that one never sees, in the streets of New-York, a beggar wearing the unmistakable Israelitish face. Poor and miserable Jews there are, of course- ragged, dirty, and degraded-but never begging. The Jew will cheat you, or rob you, but he will not ask alms of you. This is partly due to the nature of the Jew; but it must also be borne in mind that the charitable institutions of the Israelites are fully capable of caring for their own. Their charities are all for themselves-for themselves first, that is-and from being somewhat circumscribed, and well directed, they accomplish much. They do not ex- ercise themselves at all concerning Borrioboola Gha; but they are not deaf to the needs of even Christian sufferers at their doors. The Jewish hospital in West Twenty-eighth street has received numerous Christian patients, I am told, since its establishment in I85 1. It is a little singular that the Jews have only recently taken measures for the education of the children of their poor--especially in view of their well-known aversion to the teachings of Christian schools, an aversion which has had the effect of shutting them out from the benefits of our free-school   I64       ONE POOR GIRZL. system. But free schools have now been established by the Israelites, where poor children are taught the Hebrew and religious branches-these being the only such schools in America. Originally an exclusively agricultural people, the Israel- ites are now almost as exclusively mercantile; in fact, the mere idea of a Jew farmer in this country has a strong element of the ludicrous in it. Wherever human life is thickest, there the Hebrews cluster. Their chosen home is always in the large cities. Specimens of them may often be found in small villages, but never as a perma- nency; they are there only for special money-making reasons, and they drift back again to the busy haunts of the town as surely as the needle points to the pole. Scattered up and down the earth more widely than any other people, they are more closely united as a people than any other in existence, keeping the same language, the same customs, the same attachment to and pride in their race. With no temporal head, no governor, king, or government, still they are indivisible in their nation- ality, holding themselves persistently aloof from amalga- mation with the people who surround them. They even have no political influence among us, as a people. We hear of the Irish vote, the German vote, but who ever hears of the Jewish vote? The superficially observing and unthinking New-Yorker almost instinctively associates-the name of the modern Israelite with Chatham street and " ole clo'.' If he goes beyond this, he most likely gets no further than Shylock, who does indeed stand as a representative Jew most strikingly, but who, as ordinarily represented upon our stage, is far from being the many-sided character Shake- speare knew and painted. There are other characteristics   FAM tILY TIES.       I65 in Shylock than avarice-his deep paternal love, for ex- ample-but who sees any thing in him but the hideous and repulsive, as our actors furnish him forth? Who thinks of any thing but bloodthirsty avarice and hatred of the Christians, when thinking of Shylock? A German actor, who has appeared upon the Metropolitan stage comparatively recently, has rendered this rdle in a man- ner that gives to Shylock something more of a human character. National unity has its base at the foot of the family altar; and among no people are the ties of family so strong as among the Israelites. Jewish wives are prover- bial for their faithfulness and devotion. Marital infidelity is scarcely ever heard of among them. Marriage vows are never thought lightly of. As prolific a people, at least in this country, as the Irish themselves, they never exhibit that weakened love of offspring which natural history teaches is a law of nature among prolific races. Avaricious to the last degree, their avarice involves the care of all their own in its aims. Jew seldom or never preys upon Jew; and in his own family circle the meanest extortionist of them all will not unfrequently be found} to display a kindly generosity. The private and social character of the Israelites is most beautiful, most gracious; and even the Christian, who chances to form an intimate friendship with a Jew, finds that the association is a gen- erous, genial, and altogether delightful one. Yet there are no women in the world less suave to strangers of the opposite sex- than Jewish women. Extraordinary beauty, with them, does not seem to imply its usual ac- companiment, extraordinary vanity-which is generally the basis of that sort of character in woman which ren- ders her agreeable to strangers and indifferent to her -own.   i66       ONE POOR GIRL.      \ They love home better than company, husband and chil- dren better than the admiration of the crowd. Even their taste for bright colors and sparkling ornaments is not a manifestation of vanity, but springs from'an inher- ited and innate love of the brilliant and picturesque; it is not a thing to catch the eye of the passer-it is for the gratification of those whom they love. And profound as is the capacity for loving in the breast of the Hebrew girl, it seldom or never becomes the means of leading her astray. "Capacity for joy," says Mrs. Browning, " ad- mits temptation." However true this may be in the world at large, the Jewess seems to defy the evil to which it points, and to possess the power of loving wisely, how- ever well. It is here that we must look, I am convinced, for the foundation-stone of Jewish national unity.   CHAPTER XXVIII. SUSIE'S NEW HOME. MRS. MOYNAHAN'S black bottle was pitiless. Nothing could stand before it. It drove away all the girls at last, and the- Moynahan establishment was no more. Susie Garland and Mary Bell had promised each other to link their fortunes. Susie had been easily persuaded to stay and live with Mary; and they were the last to leave the miserable abode, which no longer gave them the food they needed. Mrs. Moynahan found herself left one day with only her bottle for a companion. She would have forsaken her last friend for it.- Like two mature and careful people, the two girls, Susie and Mary, studied their case and laid their plans for the future. "There is no use in trying another boarding-place, Susie. I have tried a many in my day, and they are all just too bad.  Mrs. Moynahan was better-natured and kinder than most folks that take in girls to board, but you see how it was--even she won't do." "She was so fond of her bottle!" "There's always something. If it wasn't a bottle, it would be a man, or something else." ,' But what can we do, Mary?" "I'll tell you, dear. We can rent a room in a tene- n,   I 68      ONE POOR GIRL. ment-house, and take care of ourselves. I know plenty girls who do that. Suppose we can get a room for two dollars a week. If the worst happens, Susie, we can at least earn that much together, and there's the roof over our heads, at any rate. As for the rest--why, if it comes to starving, we may as well starve that way as any. But five cents a day will buy food enough to keep the life in one's body-I know, for I've tried it. But not if you have to be out-doors in all sorts of weather, wander- ing around with your feet wet, and that kind of thing. In. this room of our own we can eat what we can get. Then, if we do well-that is, you know, if we get good work and good pay--why, then we can live much better than we have been living for a good while past. We have been paying Mrs. Moynahan five dollars a week be- tween us, and we all sleep huddled together in one room, and I know that's bad for us. I always have a headache mornings, and my mouth tastes so bitter that I am half sick with it. If we can pay her five dollars a week, we can pay ourselves that-you know what I mean. After paying two dollars out for the room, we shall have three dollars left to buy victuals with. That will buy a great deal, Susie, if you spend it carefully. We shall get along very nicely, I've no doubt." They took their bundles, and started out to look for a room. The bundles were not very heavy; as for Susie Gar- land's, it contained nothing but the cloth on which she was at the time engaged in sewing, and a few under- clothes. She had no clothing besides, except what she wore on her back. Mary was richer. She had two cheap dresses besides the oie she was wearing. -The last batch of work on   "OOKING FOR A ROOMr.      I69 which she had been engaged was returned the night be- fore, and she had three dollars in her purse. She had left the shop where she was formerly employ- ed, and for two or three weeks past had confined herself to doing piece-work with her needle at her home. Nearly a whole day of precious time was consumed in searching for a- room which should not cost too much; and toward night they found one, against the roof of-a rickety building in Cherry street--a swarming hive of hu- manity, full of families from basement to attic. Theirs was an attic room, with a solitary window, half the panes of which were broken, and a door with but one hinge. But the price was low. Their eyes brightened when they heard it. Twenty-five cents a day! We can pay that, Susie," said Mary, in a whisper. "Even if we have nothing to eat, at least we shall have a shelter, with no one to reproach us or drive us out. We shall be very comfortable, I dare say." The landlord had a word to say about references, whereat Mary Bell waxed wroth. "References!" she cried. ' How do you expect poor girls like us to have references? We haven't a friend in the world, either of us-except each other. You let us have the room, and if we don't pay you, you can put us out, I suppose." . "You won't be the first ones I've had to put out," growled the man. "My tenants never does have refe- rences. I've lost a heap of money by it, too." The girls made no answer to' this. "Well," said he, "you can bring your things, and go in when you like." "We have no things," said Mary Bell, " except what's "these bundles."   170       ONE POOR GIRL.. "No things!" exclaimed the man, with an expression as if he were a Fifth Avenue landlord; "no furniture! Why, you don't mean to say you want to live in my house without furniture?" "We shall get what we need," said Mary, "when we can." "Yes," said Susie, very much distressed, " we shall buy some furniture in a little- while, no doubt." "Yes, that's all very nice to say," said the man; " but I can tell you, this house is not one of your common holes. In all the time I've had charge of it, I never yet had a tenant in it that hadn't got no furniture. Hows'ev- er, you're a couple of young chickens, and I s'pose it an't your fault. I'll let you have the room on condition that you get some furniture into it as soon as you can; and so I'll thank you for a month's pay in advance." He held out his hand as if that were quite a matter of course. The girls looked at each other anxiously. "Well?" said the man. ,We can't do it," said Mary. "We haven't got the money."- "How do you expect to pay me, then, I should like to know?" "We expect to earn it." "Well, upon my word!--no money, no furniture, no no- thing! You an't got no business to set up for yourselves, young women, that's the amount of that. I'm astonished at you-taking up my time in this way! What do you take me for?" "We can pay you for one week in advance, if that will do," said Mary taking out her worn pocket-book with a sigh.   MAR Y AND SUSIE AT HO$IE.      171 The man eagerly accepted this offer, and in a few min- utes they were left alone in the room. "Well, we're at home at last, " said Mary, as the two girls sat down upon the floor, with their backs against the wall. "I hope we shall be able to fix it up a little," sighed Susie; "-it's rather empty now." "Yes, we'll get some things to put into it after a while. The first thing to do is to fix that window. It will be cold to-night, with all those panes out." With some articles of underclothing from her bundle, and a few pins, Mary succeeded in covering the gaps in the window.  Susie, not to waste any time, meanwhile got out her sewing, and plied her needle. Mary joined her, as soon as the window was patched. "There!" she said. "That's a beginning, any how. I feel quite cheerful. I'll -help you out with these shirts, Susie, and we'll have them done by night. When we go out with them we'll buy some bread. That'll answer for supper to-night. We must live very cheap, you know, till we get our house furnished."  Yes, Susie said, they would live on almost nothing; she had had ample experience in the art of living on al- most nothing. The shirts were not finished until it was too late to take them to the shop and get the pay. At nightfall they left them and went out to buy a can- dle and a loaf of bread. Then they worked on till nearly midnight, and fell asleep in each other's arms, stretched on the bare floor. *   "It's so nice to have a friend," said Susie, remember- ing the nights when she had slept on bare floors alone. "Yes," said Mary, half asleep, "it helps to keep you warmi." 15*   CHAPTER XXIX. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) THOMAS-AN HOUR AND A HALF IN THE FIVE POINTS. ALL this time, I am not forgetting the object which set me to searching among these strange phases of existence in the first place. I look everywhere for signs of that ,one poor girl to whom I owe atonement. Once or twice I have believed I got a trace of her-only to lose it again. I shall not give up the search until its end is reached-knowledge as to. her condition. If I never find this, I will go on in these paths till I step into the grave. Knowledge of her condition once obtained, I shall act upon it with wisdom, but with tenderness. If she has fallen into sin, hers will be the one case exceptional to .. me, and with her I shall labor as he labors through whose error a woman has fallen. This creation of a special duty for myself creates no change in my theory. It still remains true that the charity which labors wisely, seeking the good of the greatest number, must labor with the innocent tempted, not with the erring lost. I lay no claim to the title of philanthropist. I am interested in the general subject of philanthropy-as I amr in many other subjects-as one who thinks and who ob- serves.   THOMKAS.         73 I love to record the results of my observations, whether they be deeply thoughtful or merely superficial; ,whether they deal with theories or merely with the outsides of things. And, underneath all, a guiding impulse whose full power I can htrdly measure, though I feel it constantly, is the longing to find Susie Garland. In conversation with the young man who acts-as jani- tor for this half-deserted building, in whose cupola I have my eyrie, I find that he is thoroughly acquainted with the darker and more dangerous quarters of the town. Thomas is a single man; in fact, he is hardly more than a boy in appearance, though rough experience with life 'has made him older than his years. He has-not much to do in his character of janitor, and his pay is as light as his work. / I have resolved to add a trifle to his income, by employing him as a guide and companion in my nightly wanderings. He came into my eyrie a few nights since to- see how the fire was getting on-it having a provoking habit of going out, if left to itself. He was heaping on some fresh coals, when I raised my head from my. writing, and asked him if he was acquainted with the lower class of lodging-houses.. "Yes, sir," he replied; "I know where a good many of 'em are." "You never slept in one of them, I suppose?" Thomas was horrified. No doubt he felt the question an insult; but if so, he let it pass. "Oh! no, sir," said he; "I never was inside one of 'em in my life, though I know where a good many of 'em I   174  '    ONE POOR GIRL. are. I used to live in Cherry street; there's some in that neighborhood; Fisher's alley is full of 'em, and Dirty Spoon." "And what, Thomas?" "Dirty .Spoon." "I never heard of that before; what is it?" "-It's a row of buildings, sir; that's the nickname of it-it's so dirty, you know, and so full of alleys." Then I explained to Thomas the service I wished to engage him in. The idea of disguising one's self struck him with peculiar force. "That's a splendid idea," he said. I made an appointment with Thomas to come up to me, at nine o'clock, prepared to sally forth on a visit to the Sixth Ward. When he came up, I was amused to find that Thomas had donned a disguise himself. It had not occurred to me that he would think any thing of the sort necessary; and, beyond the fact that his coat was a little more ragged than the one he ordinarily wore, his aspect was very little changed. "Where shall we go, sir?" "To the Five Points." A short walk brought us into the heart of that abode of vice, crime, filth, and squalor; and here' follows the record of what-happened under our eyes during the next hour and a half, without one word of exaggeration. What I am able to picture of these scenes, with my pen, I wish to picture as the sun pictures through the photographer's art-asking no aid from the arts of the fictionist. The question that perplexes me is not what to put into the picture, but what to leave out. Pausing at a basement near the junction of Baxter   MAG AND MKE.        I75 , and- Park streets, whence issued a sound of contending voices, and looking down into the smoke-reeking hole below, we saw through the open door a dozen or so of hideous creatures in the garb of women, quarreling-- as women mostly quarrel--with their tongues, shaking their clenched fists in each other's faces, wagging their frouzy heads combatively, running out their tongues in horrible grimace, and loading the night air with oaths and obscenity. One of the women started to come up the black wooden stairway into the street, and we moved slowly on to the corner, where she overtook us, and, un- der the lamp-post, began to tell her story. She had been quarreling about a man; his name was Mike; she was jealous of Mike; he flirted with Mag; Mag denied the soft impeachment, and threw her shoe at her defamer in the basement. "I'm a dacent woman, mind ye, an', bedad, I belave Moike is at Mag's now, a waitin' for her." "What ails yer face?"I asked her; for there were two ugly gashes on her cheek and forehead, evidently recent. "A shtick flew up and hit me," said she; and, draw- ng her ragged shawl over her head, she hurried away. Further up Baxter street, we found a curious resort- where those wandering minstrels, the organ-grinders, gather together to while away their time after the close of the day's labor. It was reached by a flight of rickety stairs, leading up the outside of the building. There were probably fifty boys in this room, and three or four men. Some were gambling, some were smoking, some were swearing and chattering, anfid some were curled up on the floor in silence by the stove. One of the boys was whistling like a mocking-bird, practicing the dulcet strain with which he would accompany his organ on the morrow.   1 76      'OiE POOR GIRL. "Hurroo! there's a fight somewhere!"The boys rush out and down the tottering stairs into the street. Win- dows fly up on every hand, and heads are thrust out. Dogs are barking, men are shouting, women are scream- ing, and a dark crowd is surging about the gloomy entrance of an alley near "Monkey Hall." The burly policeman is there in the alley, separating an overgrown brute of a saloon-keeper and a bellowing Irishwoman with one leg shorter than the other. who seem to be the chief belligerents. But out of this grow several minor fights, amid which the policeman--a huge, brawny fellow, as all the officers in this quarter are- moves with pacificatory club. (For, mark you! these low creatures, who are cowards to the backbone, can only be brought to a peace basis by ster measures.) The occu- pants of houses on opposite sides of the street berate each other from third-story windows. There is a very Ba- bel of noise. A fierce word-contest is going on between a pale-faced but vixenish little woman on the sidewalk, with a baby in her. arms, and a fellow in a second-story window, with his pipe in his hand. For a few minutes it is doubtful which has the best of it; but the fellow in the window fires a demolishing shot when he cries, "Go 'long, you  ! Go back to Water street, where you be- long! Go back to Water street; you !"There is no getting over this, and the woman slinks off, kissing the dirty face of her baby. Five Points charging a woman upon Water street! Abuse-can go no further. The tempest lulls. The crowd disperses, and the windows are- shut. The bob-legged woman stands pant- ing on her door-step. "Fwhat's de matter wid ye?"I ask her; to which she responds, in a low, confidential tone, "Hello, George!"   A DACELNVT WOAX. N." x " That was her bid for sympathy. Just then the policeman bids her go in the house. "How did that woman know my name, Thomas?" said I. "That's what I'm a lookin' at," said Thomas, im- mensely amused. Our woman of the basement turns up again. She has; been to Mag's, and has got Mag's hood on her head. "Bedad, he was thayre," she says, putting her hand on my shoulder with the familiarity of former acquaintance- ship, and then she goes 6n with her story. It is all Mag and Mike and Mike and Mag, in a hopeless confusion. "I'm a dacent woman, mind ye," she concludes'; "I been livin' in Mulberry street wid Mike three years, an' ye can't find the man can say pouff to me "-with an - emphatic snap of her finger. Around the corner into Park street, and in Mulberry street we find another row going on, or a word-battle between a liquor-seller and a woman. The liquor-seller is in such a profound rage that drops of. blood ooze from his gums, and clot his lips. He howls with anger; and, amid his torrent of Billingsgate, the woman, who stands at a safe distance with her shawl over her head, drops in her continual seeds of aggravation, as only a woman can. "Go 'long wid ye, ye  !" he cries; "I'll let ye know ye can't come a jawin' round my dure! Go 'long wid ye. I'll talk to Jack, now, ye mind!" "If ye come to my room, Jack'll kill ye, ye big thafe!" "I will, then! I'll talk to Jack. I'll knock at his door dacently, and I'll come in like a man." They keep it up for half an hour, each struggling for the last word; and the woman gets it, of, course. All   178       ONE POOR GIRL. this time a policeman stands behind a door-step near, listening quietly. We are benumbed with cold, and drop into a groggery to get warmed. Lighting our pipes, we sit down upon a barrel. There are half a dozen men and women here, and an altercation is going on between the bar-tender and an old hag who wants a 1" drink." "Ye wouldn't give me a dhrink, when it's me washed yer shirts fer ye." The battle ends by the fellow taking the woman by the shoulder and thrusting her into the streets, where she sits down upon the sidewalk, in her rags, bellowing at the top of her voice. Such was the history of an hour and a half in the Five Points. How little they realize-they "That sit still in easy-chairs," that these scenes are transpiring in the haunts of low life night after night, night after night! One aches to preach a sermon after diving into this dark current. D       ,  .            ,   CHAPTER XXX. (FROM HEVSINGER'S JOURNAL.) JACK TAR AND HS SIRENS-THE HEBREW LAND-SHARK- FISHER'S ALLEY AND GOTHAM COURT. IT was nearly eleven o'clock when we left the Five Points behind us, and, crossing Chatham street, walked down Catharine as far as Water. A bright moonlight shed its pure rays over the scene; and wherever we wandered for the next two hours, into whatever filthy slums out of doors, there still the white moonlight lay. There are some things so ethereally pure that no contact with filth can soil them. We have need of all the purity there is in our natures in this morally and physically filthy neighborhood. Af- ter passing James Slip, we come upon a scene that has something  semi-demoniac in its aspect.  All along the street there are strewn a series of liquor-saloons of a pe- culiar character. Their doors are open, or hung only with a latticed blind, though the weather is n6t very summer-like, and there floats out upon the night the discordant music of tambourines, violins, horns, and clarionets, shocking all rules of harmony, mingled with harsh laughter, shouts, and oaths. About the door of this first one that we come upon is a  cluster of sailors and roughs, in flannel shirts, pea- ' jackets, slouch hats, and tarpaulings, smoking and gazing. We   enter boldly, and stand in a room which, though 16    ISO    O-E POOR GIRL. dirty and poverty-stricken, is tricked out with gay-colored tissue-paper and cheap prints; while the female inmates are arrayed in short dresses of red, blue, and white cotton, and wear wreaths of gaudy artificial flowers or tinsel head- dresses upon their grease-daubed hair. Their cheeks are red with paint,! their arms and shoulders are bare, and oaths and obscenity issue from :their filthy lips. Some are dancing noisily to the music of a "band " composed of a violin, a harp, and a tambourine. The man who plays the tambourine is evidently the proprietor; he wears broadcloth and a silk hat, and beats the tambourine upon his knee, swaying drunkenly to and fro. Seating ourselves on a bench againstf the wall, we be- come at once objects of attention. My own disguise is too repulsive even for these creatures, and they do not approach me. "Go and dance with that feller," says the proprietor to a big, pimple-nosed Irish woman in a gaudy dress and pink stockings. "Augh, he's too old!" she replies, giving me a glance of aversion. But she seats herself by the side of my com- panion. Thomas moves away in profound disgust. This makes her -angry, and she begins to scold him-sneeringly demands to know what he came here for, and says, "If I was a man, curse me if I'd go into a place and not pay for it." Here I come to the rescue; and I find that my rough aspect is of great service now, for the woman is sincerely afraid of me. She calls the proprietor to her defense. "Put that loafer out," she says. "Are you going to dance?" the man inquires of me. "I don't know these here dances," H reply. "Augh! yer s'pose I'm goin' to b'leve that?"   POOR JACK.         18 I "Don't yer believe it?"I ask, giving him an ugly, side- long look. "Oh! 'if yer say so," he replies meekly. Meantime, the dancing stops; the inmates gather about us; and I take Thomas by the shoulder, and lead him out-doors, a good deal disturbed. "Well," he cries, " you'll put some of that down, won't you?" And the "putting it down," though only done in pencil on my card, is a great satisfaction to Thomas. The street is full of these dance-houses, bearing such sign-boards as "The Sailor's Return," "Boatman's Hall," "Buffalo Hall," etc.; but one is a pattern of the rest. They are all kept as places for the fleecing of sailors who have returned from a voyage with full pockets. After each dance the sailor must "treat" his partner, at an ex- pense of twenty-five to fifty cents; and in the course of a long evening, Jack Tar's dancing bill amounts to the price of an upper-ten ball-ticket; though, to be sure, there are no extra expenses for white kids, bouquets, and car- riage-hire in this case. It is a curious reflection upon these hideous sailor-traps, that the Hebrew persuasion never seem to employ this means of fleecing Jack Tar. This is curious, because, of all the land-sharks that beset the sailor in this city, so full of land-sharks of every species, none have sharper teeth, more cruel eyes, or greater persistence in pursuit of prey, than the Hebrew land-shark. No prey is too small for him; at the same time, his voracity is insatiable. No amount of spoils. already won from his victim can make him flag for an instant in his purpose of winning the pos- sible copper still lying at the bottom of the victim's pock- et. If he could win the shirt off his back and the stqck.   I 82       OITWE .POOR GIRL. ings off his feet, he would still long for something more-- the teeth in his jaws, or the hair on his head, perhaps. Whatever it might be, Moses could turn it to profit; you may be sure he would know the straightest road to the place where he could sell the teeth and the hair for moneys. If the mere sale of clothing does not permit of stripping his victim entirely, Moses has in a little room in the rear of his clothing store a show-case containing a brilliant dis- play of sham jewelry and sham silverware, where Jack may see a smacking breast-pin that he fancies his Susan might like, or a tea-pot which would dazzle her blue eyes on their supper-table. These things are gambled away. The nmodus operandi is beneath description; suffice it to say that Jack sees his fortune made before his eyes, but, when he tries to grasp it, he finds that it eludes him in the most singular and surprising manner; and he will be lucky if he leaves the little den with a dollar of his hard earn- ings remaining to him. Yet in spite of the fact that the Israelite shark is so greedy, he seems to scorn the baseness of Water street -dance-houses, as a means of securing prey. It is some relief to leave this scene behind, and turn into Cherry street, thence into Oak street, and presently into Fisher's alley-a low archway opening into and through a dusky brick building, smelling of all uncleanli- ness. A policeman across the street, seeing us conversing in low tones, slips into the shadow of a doorway and watches us suspiciously. We enter the alley, through which meanders a rivulet of filthy water, and presently emerge into a close court in the rear, where several fishermen's carts are turned up for the night. A drunkard lies in the shadow of the fence, snor- e;. "   A SCENS OF RIOT.        I83 ing dismally. This is the scene of more than one mid- night murder. Out of yon gloomy door was borne, not long since, the ghastly body of a husband-murdered wife. These old brick buildings have been standing a lifetime. Mildew and damp have marked their slimy footsteps down the dark walls; and the rickety wooden shutters, some hanging by a single hinge, bang and clatter in the wind. Clothes-lines are stretched high overhead from window to window, some, with their burden of ragged clothes, flap- ping like bats in the night. Dogs and cats quarrel and snarl in the shadows, breaking the silence of the midnight. Turning out of Oak into Roosevelt street, Thomas called my attention to the dead-wall of boards opposite, hung with the placards of the'city theatres and other places of amusement, and remarked that here stood a row of negro tenements, which were torn down in the great July riots of I863. It was a gloomy story to listen to, standing there at the dead of night: the burning of the buildings, the mutilation of the unhappy inmates, their howls and shrieks and prayers as they were thrown into the flames to roast alive. "'The next morning," said Thomas, who was an eye-witness of the scene, "the murderers' wives and child- ren came around and stole the wood that was left from the fire, carrying it off by bits till it was all gone." All the fragrant dens and alleys hereabout were represented largely in those hideous riots. Thomas named residents of Mullin's alley, Murphy's alley, and the Dirty Spoon, whom he had recognized. The Dirty Spoon-or Gotham court, as it-is otherwise called-'I found to be a brace of lanes, the first of which is lined on one side by a board wall, covered with cuts and hacks, and rubbed smooth by much human attrition, and on the other by a five-story brick building, the lower 16*   184       ONrE POOR GIRL. story of which is whitewashed. The second was a similar lane, but longer, and with high brick walls on either side -so high, and so near together, that the narrow lane was dark and dismal enough, despite the gas-jets that flared at intervals along the walls.- The place was not quite lifeless, -even at this hour. A woman was down on her knees on the stone pavement by one of the hydrants, washing clothes at midnight; a lean, cadaverous cat slunk from a dark door-way, and scudded past with outstretched tail; a cutthroat-visaged Irishman -slouched by, glaring on us with bloodshot eyes. Where a shutter had fallen ajar and a light was twinkling, we looked in upon a pair of old crones, sitting by a fireless hearth, their heads close together, jabbering gossip, while a man lay asleep, face downward, on the floor. Both women were wrap- ped up, one in a shawl over her head, the other wearing a man's ragged coat and a dirty hood.. I shall visit the Dirty Spoon again. *s,    CHAPTER XXXI. "I LOVE HER SO WELL, SO WELL." A BRIGHTER day seemed dawning for Susie Garland and her companion. Soon after establishing themselves in the Cherry street attic, Mary had had the good fortune to obtain sewing to do for a great mercantile house in Broadway, which paid a far better price than they had hitherto received. Mary had become so skillful in embroidery that with this new work she was able to earn four dollars and a half a week. Susie was less skillful. She could do plain sewing very well, but embroidery was beyond her. Yet in plain sew- ing her needle was so brisk that she too succeeded in earning a very decent sum, the girls thought-two dollars and a half a week. "When it's considered that you do almost all the work around the house, Susie, I think your earnings are very good indeed." The house-work was not very heavy. The girls seldom cooked any thing but potatoes; boiling these, from time to time, and making the daily cup of tea, was not calculat- ed to tax the poor girls' time very severely. Besides the cooking, there was the sweeping, the scrubbing of floor and windows, and the fire-building. Susie kept the room as clean as wax. They thought it quite a cheerful place now. After   x86      r ONE POOR GIRL. paying twenty-five cents-a day for rent, they had seventy- five cents a day left for other purposes. The savings of a month sufficed to provide various articles of furniture. First, they bought a coarse mattress to sleep on; later, a quilt. They also bought a small stove, a table, two chairs, an old cupboard, and some dishes. All these they got at a second-hand rubbish shop in the New-Bowery. The stove was cracked; the table was lame; the chairs were rickety; the cupboard was old and worn by years of use; the dishes were chipped and broken. But every thing was clean. And the munificent income of seven dollars a week made these girls feel thankful, and almost hopeful. Relieved in some degree from the frets and fears of the poor girl who struggles ceaselessly with starvation, Susie Garland's thoughts had of late turned to another subject -which gave her frequent pain. Mary had never joined her in prayer, and when Susie spoke of God, Mary had no response to make. Sometimes, too, Mary would work -on Sunday, and when Susie said it was wrong, one day, Mary had laughed at it. "Sunday wasn't made for such as us, Susie," she said. "It was made for rich people.  I can't throw away the Sundays, when the work is behind." -And while Susie-knelt in prayer before lying down to sleep at night-knelt in the darkness, for the candle must be extinguished the moment work was done-as she pray- ed for the welfare of the woman Kate, who had saved her from  dreadful danger, of the unknown man who had res- cued her from persecution and from death, and of Mary- she heard Mary's heavy breathing in the quick-falling sleep of weariness. Then she would lie down by Mary's side, put her arms f.               *   H FOW MARY TA LKED.       I87 about the girl's neck, and kiss- her lightly, whisper- ing, "She is the only friend I have on earth, now mother's gone, and I love her so well, so well!" The building in whose attic-room they lived was full of people, even down into the basement. They were chiefly families, huddled together, for cheapness, into as'- little space as they could possibly dwell in and not suffo- cate outright. In the basement there were accommoda- tions for lodgers at fifteen cents apiece. On the floor next below that of Susie and Mary, there was, one Sunday night, a rollicking party of half-drunk men and women, playing cards, drinking, and swearing. Overhearing their noise, and getting a glimpse of them as she passed by their door on an errand, Susie com- mented on their conduct as a girl might who respected decency, sobriety, and the Sabbath-day. But Mary was much more lenient. "I can't be .very hard on them," she said. She was one of those who always walk closer to virtue than they talk; her life had always been irreproachable, while her father and mother were sots; yet she said this, and added: "Perhaps by, the time we have fought starvation and kept off wickedness till we are as old as they are, we'll make up our minds that we might just as well have a good time--drink rum when we can get it, and drive off our troubles for a while." "I hope I shall be dead before that day," said Susie, with firmly compressed lips, and her eyes shining with a peculiar light. She was thinking of Jo White at that minute. "Susie!" said Mary, turning round on her suddenly, "I know well that there's worse things than dying, and   88 -       ONE POOR, GIRL. though I like you better than any one I ever saw in this world, I'd not be so selfish as to wish that you shouldn't die if you want to die. I dare say there may be a better world than this. I don't believe there's a worse. And your mother may be there, as you say. But let me tell you one thing, Susie-don't ever wish you were dead; because, if you do, you'll never die. Just so sure as you wish for any thing in this world, just so sure you never get i!"   CHAPTER      XXXII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) THE DIRTY SPOON-A HUGE TENEMENT---MURDERER'S ALLEY-AMONG   THE ROUIGHS-A  SEWING-WOMAN S HOME. THERE are grades of squalor. The people who inhabit those fragrant localities known as Murderer's alley and the Dirty Spoon, feel themselves far higher in the social scale than "them low creeters" in the Five Points and Bilker's Hole. In fact, it is a common practice with the people of various neighborhoods where the heathen are thickest, and where beggars and thieves hold high carni- val after dark, to throw verbal mud at each other, after the fashion of rival towns in the West. Water street looks upon it as a deep disgrace to dwell in the Five Points; and vice versa. But if there is a Belgravia of low life, no doubt its locus in quo is the Dirty Spoon. This evening, as we wend our way along Cherry street, the weather is much milder, and we find the -sidewalks swarming with human beings of all ages, sizes, sexes, and colors. They are sitting upon door-steps; they are dart- ing to and fro across the road; they are strolling along the walks; they are leaning against lamp-posts, and especially they are thronging the liquor-saloons that are everywhere present, and everywhere doing a prosperous business. The Dirty Spoon -is the title given to the huge tene-   Io0       ONE POOR GIRL. ment building at Nos. 36 and 38 Cherry street, with the alleys that flank it on. either side, and by which the oc- cupants of the building reach their several places of en- trance. How many people reside in this monster hive it is impossible to say: probably, more than a thousand. It is the largest house of its class in the city. The alleys are thronged with rowdies, through whom we pass undisturbed, for our- disguise does not indicate strangership, and a strange face, merely, is never noticed. How should it be here, where the population is an ever- -shifting one, and new-comers come every day and night, by scores? It is this fact that gives us immunity from curious questionings, as we ramble over this huge caravan- sera; in and out at its score or more of entrances; up and down its miles of stairway. What glimpses of poverty and rascality meet our eyes as we wander to and fro; what illustrations of the strange pursuits that some people follow for "a living!" In this room, near the top of the building, we come upon an apartment in which is a cluster of young men and women, playing cards and drinking gin. They are all thieves-males and females-and herd together promiscu- ously, more beastly in some respects than the very beasts of the field. "What yer want?" is the salute we- get from them; and it is in vain I attempt to fraternize with them. "You git out o' here now!" is the stern order which comes from the biggest youth of the lot. His eyes are full of fight, and he is backed by his comrades. A quarrel with them means not simply a whipping, but a "going through" also; " going through" being the slang phrase for stripping a man of his money and valuables. So we toss these aristocrats a good-natured word, and depart.   A ,POODLE DEALER.       191 After knocking, we open the door of another room, in response to the " wok in" of its occupant, and behold an old woman engaged in feeding a famous liquid to a nest of puppies. This woman is inclined to be sociable. She is evidently well-to-do in the world. There are pictures on her walls, a sufficiency of chairs and other furniture, and an odor of fried meat in the room that betokens good living. The woman's ample form and red face further betoken it. "Sit ye down," she says. "Was ye wantin' a poodle?" We inquire the price. The prices range from five dollars upward; some are as high as forty dollars. What's that you're feeding them?"I ask. "Arrah! don't ye know whisky when ye shmell it?" By feeding whisky to her canine progeny, she so stunts their growth that at full size they are no longer than an ordinary man's hand. Her customers are among the "upper ten " of the city, who have a great passion for these dog-dwarfs as lap-dogs. The woman, conforming to a lately prevalent fashion, dyes some of her dogs in the varied colors of the rainbow. Naturally, they are as white as snow; but Miss McFlimsey prefers a scarlet fleece, or a blue, green, or orange one. They die young, how- ever, to the, sorrow of their owners, who think the "poor little dear" has not been properly fed in its Fifth Avenue. home; the real cause of its premature decease being, how- ever, the whisky on which it was dieted in the Dirty Spoon. In an adjoining room we find an organ-grinder at home with his family, which includes his monkey, as our noses would tell us, if our eyes did not. Near by a nest of pro- fessional beggars are domiciled. 'Longshoremen, junk- boatmen, cartmen, hackmen, female nurses, street-walkers, 17   I92       ONE POOR GIRL. sewing-girls, prize-fighters, small gamblers, and the re- presentatives also of every trade, hive in this great tenement together. There are negroes with white wives, Chinamen with Irish wives, Irishmen with French wives, and an amalgamation of representatives -from every nation and country on the face of the globe-Israelites alone except- ed. I have never yet come across a case of marriage be- tween a Jew, of either sex, and one of an opposite faith. From here let us go to Murderer's alley. There is also a Murderer's alley in the Five Points, but this one is in Cherry street, immediately adjoining the Dirty Spoon, and only separated therefrom by a liquor-saloon. It is a queer-looking place,/we find on entering. On the street the alley is four feet wide, with a rickety wooden building on the left, and a, brick one (the liquor-saloon) on the right. There is a remnant of an old gateway here, with crazy wooden spikes atop. Walking in, we find that the alley suddenly widens to a breadth of six feet. At this point the scene is very singu- lar and impressive; tall buildings of differing heights and shapes; grimy, sooty, tumbly, with clothes-lines stretched overhead, their burden of rags flapping like bats in the night. It is like the purlieus of Old London we have seen in some of Hogarth's and Cruikshank's pictures. But as we penetrate further, we -find that the alley is tolerably clean, and the buildings tidy in a certain way--a com- parative one, that is. As we walk on, the walls grow-nearer and nearer to- gether; till at last they nearly touch, and render it im- possible to walk abreast. At the narrowest point, we find that the alley is precisely one foot and five inches wide, by actual measurement. Then it spreads into an open court, in the centre of which stands a dismal-looking wooden   A CROWD OF BOUGHS.       193 hydrant. We are shut in here by towering walls that per- mit the moonlight to strike only upon one corner of the court. All about are lighted windows, hung with news- papers, patched and mended, and stuffed with rags and old hats. Attracted by the sound of discordant music and loud laughter in one of the rooms on the ground floor, we look in at a crevice in the wooden shutter of a window, and perceive a drunken fiddler, sitting perched upon a barrel, vigorously sawing away, while a dozen men and women try to dance in the little apartment. We will not enter either of the buildings that form the walls of Murderer's Alley. The population is the same as that of the Dirty Spoon-thieves, beggars, and all the rest of it. It is like coming out into the light of day, to emerge from this gloomy alley into the moonlighted street. A crowd of " roughs" are gathered on the corner, talking loudly. Let us draw near, and listen to what they say: "Augh,him! he a fighter? Hi! go 'long-what! talk about him bein' a fighter. He's a fraud.' Jimmy Coburn could git away wid him wid one hand, I tell yer." "Yer lie; what d' you know? You never seed him fight." "Didn't I? Who didn't?  Wasn't I up to Linkin Hall when he buffed that long-legged feller from the Dry Dock?; Guess yes. I don't say he didn't lay over that feller; but what's he? I could lay over him myself." At this juncture, inspired by an idea that I thought might be turned to good account, I stepped up to the group. "How is ye?" said I to the loudest talker, laying my hand on his shoulder. 4 .    194       O .VE POOR GIRL. "Me? I'm in purty good fettle. Who be you?" "Don't yer know me?" said I. "Want you up to Linkin Hall t'other night?" "Wus you thayre? Say, you seed that Lunnun feller spar, then. Is he good for nothin'? say!" "He's a cockney. What's he worth, anyhow?" said I. "Have a cigar?" In- a few minutes I was on terms of democratic good- fellowship with this choice circle. They clapped me on the back, and voted me an egg. My knowledge of the noble art of self-defense excited their admiration, and a careless illustration I gave of the scientific manner of put- ting in a " one-two" won their profound respect. When I had got them into a sufficiently appreciative condition, I sprung my idea on them suddenly. "Say, fellers!"I said, "d'yer know what's agoin' on 'round here in Roosevelt street? A temperance meetin'! Tell you what, I'm agoin' roun' there' to see what's like. Who's fer goin' along?" There was sneering at the proposition, but as I showed myself determined to go, after some urging I succeeded in getting a squad' of three recruits. I then led the way to a roomy basement in Roosevelt street, just around the comer, where certain earnest men were laboring to. ac- complish what good they might,right here in the midst of the enemy. What direct good was done by my experi- ment, I do not know. Thomas was waiting outside, and I left my three friends with their hats on their knees, lis- tening open-mouthed to the exhortations of a reformed drunkard who claimed to have been a sailor. It was iri a building but a short distance from the Dirty Spoon that, on another occasion, when I was not in dis- guise, I had a -brief conversation with a sewing-woman.         ONE OF SUSIE'S NEIGHBORS.      I95 She dwelt in a room in the attic of this building-a crazy rookery in which there were twenty deaths last summer, though there are not over ten rooms in the house. The roof over her head let in the rain, there was but one whole pane of glass in the narrow window, the ceiling was so low that I could not stand upright, there was no place for a stove, so that she had to put her stove-pipe through the window-and she paid a dollar and a quarter a week for the rent of this wretched apartment. Sometimes the woman had money enough to buy a pail of coals at an ad- joining grocery; at other times, her only means of keep- ing her fire alive was by overhauling ash-barrels in front of stores, and picking out the cinders. This, through pride, she did after dark, accompanied by her child--a girl of five or six-" not for her help," she explained, " but because I daren't leave her here alone." Less humane mothers than this are in the habit of send- ing out their children to do this work of cinder-hunting; but there is so much rivalry in the pursuit that it is not always successful. On one of the coldest nights of the winter, a little girl nine years old was found asleep in a box, in Pearl street, with a hideous gash over her eye, which was black and swollen, and her body blue all over with bruises. She said her drunken mother had beaten her and thrust her into the street, after dark, because she had come home at night without enough cinders. She was taken to the girls' lodging-house in Canal street. 17*             ,  .-   CHAPTER XXXIII. MARCH WEATHER. As spring came on, Susie took heart. "Before long, the sun will be out so warm that we can do without a fire, Mary. That will be a great saving." "I dare say we shall get rich yet," said Mary, laugh- ing, as she bent over her sewing. She was getting hollow-eyed- and sallow; and her laugh, which was meant to be cheerful, sounded almost sepulchral. "If we don't fall sick," said Susie, looking at her anxiously. "Yes," said Mary, " that's the worst of it. We need not have much to fear, so long as we keep our strength; when that goes, all's gone! You've nothing to do but lie down and die, then." The laugh had left no glimmer in her eyes now. Her face reflected Susie's anxious look. "I have no fears for myself, Susie. I'm used to it, and I have often felt worse than I feel now; but you were brought up differently, and you're not built so strong as I am," "I feel no fear, Mary. It is for you I am anxious. I hope you're not going to be sick." "Me? Oh! no, dear--don't think of it! I've been through many a hard siege, but I never had to give up yet. I shan't get sick."   STORM.          197, Poor Mary! She was more sick, that moment, than many a lady who takes to her-bed for weeks, with a regi- ment of bottles and a staff of doctorsto guard her. Susie's spring weather had ,not brought much sunshine yet. There was a storm in the city a few days after the day on which the above conversation occurred-a storm of-howling wind, and blinding sleet, and freezing snow.  A furious mad March storm, raging all through two days and two nights; so fierce and angry that Wall street was nearly depopulated. The Fifth Avenue lady looked out from the lace-hung windows of her snug parlor, and fretfully condemned such disgusting weather. The wealthy merchant and banker either tarried at home all day by the fireside, or, if compelled to go out at all, ordered the carriage, and dispatched the pressing business quickly, to return to the ruddy glow of the library grate. The children were kept from school, and littered the carpet with their playthings, or flattened their little noses against the broad panes of plate-glass, untempted, for once, by " out-doors." Mary and Susie were aroused from their sleep on the morning of that day by the fingers of the freezing air, which felt about their forms as they lay, and set their teeth to chattering'. They arose, fastened on their scant-clothing with trem- bling fingers, and built a fire. Fortunately, they had pur- chased a fresh pail of coal only the previous day, and there was kindling-wood enough to light it. There was snow on the floor in places. The thin flakes were very searching, and there were cracks enough in the window, through which the snow could sift. They sewed all day in the cold room, shivering con-   I98       ONE POOR GIRL. stantly; the little fire was utterly incapable of warming the room. Toward night, Mary prepared to go out. "O dear!" said Susie, " it is such dreadful weather!" "We can't stop for weather, Sue. You know that well. I must take this work home, and get some more. You needn't go out at all, yourself; it's bad enough for either of us to go; I'll buy a candle and a loaf as I come back." All the time she was gone, Susie stood with her sewing by the window, glancing out continually, as if that would help Mary in getting home safe. She came in just as it had grown too dark to sew longer by daylight, put down the loaf and the candle, and ran to the stove. "Well, I'm glad I'm safe home," she said, shivering over the dull fire. "My feet are like ice." Susie knelt and took Mary's feet in her lap, and re- moved her shoes. "You need new shoes, Mary," she said. "There's a hole in one of these almost as big as my hand." "It won't be cold weather much longer, Susie." "I hope not," she answered, rubbing the icy feet with her hands, after having removed the shoes--flimsy, paper- soled, cloth-topped gaiter boots, worn with great holes in the sides, and soaking-wet all over. In their best condi- tion, they would have been insufficient covering for a woman's feet in ordinary weather. Mary gave up work for that night. It was the first time she had ever given way one inch before the enemy, in the life-battle she waged with so stout a heart. "'I feel a little sick to-night, Susie. In the morning I shall be all right."   HEROIS M.         9 9 She was far from being all right in the morning; but she dragged herself up, and plied her needle. It was still storming hard. "A very dismal day, dear," said Susie. All days were dismal in that room, but the two brave girls who inhabited it would not own so much to each other. *   CHAPTER XXXIV. (FROM HEYSINCGR'S JOUtNAL.) BILKER'S HOLE-A VERITABLE FAGIN-IN THE ATTIC- "O WONDERFUL HUMANITY!" WE chose a furious night on which to visit Bilker's Hole; but, Thomas signifying his willingness to go, we sallied forth. To know the life of this great city one must not confine his observations to fair weather, any more than to fair quarters of the town. The wind blew a gale, and the snow fell in blinding sheets, with thin brittle flakes which whirled in our faces with a pain like the pricking of needles. Turning into Roosevelt street after a brisk walk of a few minutes, we paused before a little shoemaker's shop, adjoining the blind alley leading into Bilker's Hole-or Hall, -as it is sometimes called-and went in to make some inquiries. To my surprise, the two shoemakers-- one a young and intelligent Irishman, the other an old German, of a most hideous aspect--professed utter igno- rance of the whereabouts of Bilker's Hole. They had heard of it--certainly-but where it was they could not tell, I informed them that it was right here--the build- ing actually joined their shop. This announcement created a profound sensation. The German immediately laid aside his last, and volun- teered to accompany us.   A RESPECTABLE MAN.       201 "Do you know any of the inmates?"I asked. "Me? Naw! naw!" he replied, with a sort of en- thusiasm of disgust.- "I bees respectable man-nefer look in dere since I vas alive!" He followed us out into the storm in his shirt-sleeves to advise us to " look out," if we were going to venture in there, and, pointing somewhat excitedly with his knife, suggested a dozen places in the vicinity that I ought to visit--" dey bees so low, so dirty, so poor." Neverthe- less, his own home was as low, as dirty as the majority; but the pride of industrious poverty is a strange manifes- tation sometimes. Notwithstanding the good work--good though tem- porary-that Jack Frost had done for the alley, or court, leading to Bilker's Hole, the stench was fearful. We penetrated the lojwer end of the court, and paused a mo- ment to survey the building. Black and gloomy in the night, Bilker's Hole reared its -brick walls to the storm, the saddest imaginable specimen of dilapidation. Up a sort of rude ladder of steps that leaned against the build- ing we mounted, and entered an open door. All was darkness. I felt along the ragged walls-my fingers came in contact with a rusty iron staple, wandered along a wooden patch, and suddenly sunk into a cav- ity. "Go back to the shoemaker's and get a box of matches," said I to Thomas; " there is no telling what holes we may stumble into here. We surely must im- provise -a light." While he was gone, I returned into the court. A door opened; a sudden uproar of cursing voices swept out into the night; a man came tumbling headlong out, fol- lowed by-   t( 202       O1VE POOR GIRL. "Now you be off! I'll cut your throat for yer if I git a-hold of yer again. I've had enough of you." So tnuch I could catch from the babel of cries--and I could see that the room within was crowded with men and women, or creatures in their shape, at least, when the door was banged together, and the sound of drunken sobs fell on- my ear, as the miserable object who had been thrust out crawled toward the street. I followed him. "What's the fuss, Johnny?" said I. "Hello!" said he, snuffling off a sob; " is that you? Where was you? Did you see him histe me out?" "I sor him," said I, adopting the vernacular suited to my disguise; " what fur did he do it?" "You know, don't yer?" he answered, rubbing his eyes; " didn't you never prig for him?" "Not me." "An't you on it? You are on it! I know you! I seed you at the Tombs once. Wasn't you sent up on the Island last summer? Yes, you was!" The conversation was continued until my companion returned. By it I learned that the den was kept by a veritable Fagin, such as Charles Dickens depicted in Oliver Twist-an educator of young thieves, who receives their spoils, and sells .them at a " thieves' fenice." To- night this fellow had taken umbrage at the young man whom I had ventured to accost as Johnny, who, being emboldened by liquor, had rebelled at the small por- tion of the spoils-" whack of the swag," he called it- that he had received from his tutor. Thomas returned with a box of matches; we turned to the dark entrance at the- rear of the court, and entered. Myr companion struck a light; and, holding up the match   "OOKING FOR MKE.      203 to ascertain where the stairs were, I saw them by its dim flicker leading up into a region of gloom. Up these, and igniting another match, we found our way obstructed in front by a wall, while on either side was a door. It must not be supposed that during this time there was silence all about us. On the contrary, there was noise enough to show us that the building was thickly peopled, and not by deaf mutes. There was one voice -that of an Irishwoman, clearly-which was distin- guishable above the general din. It was more like a dog's howl than a human-voice-yet it syllabled words, too. "What d'ye mane by comin' here when ye got no money, ye baste! Ahoo! wow! ye dhirty thafe! Whin yer pockets are full, ye shtay away till it's all gon', an' thin ye comes back to me. Ow-wow! ye amadhaun! And me dead broke, an' nothin' to ate. Hoo!" mingled all through with the most dreadful oaths. "Let's go," whispered Thomas. "Yes, I am going," said I, " in." I tried the door. It was locked. I rapped. No one heard, it seemed. I banged the door. There was a lull. A key was turned, and a young woman opened the door. "How is ye?" said I, walking in. "I don't know ye," said the woman. "What ye want?" growled a man, rising from a stool by the stove. "Where's Mike?" said I. "Mike who?" "What! don't you know Mike? An' doesn't he sleep in the attic?" "This an't the -attic, thin." 18   204       ONE POOR GIRL. "How do ye git up?"I asked. At this juncture I was unexpectedly asked to sit down and warm myself, which I did, and, while the question of Mike and the attic was under discussion, looked about me. The' room was small, and was crowded with men and - women, all of whom, including the women, were smoking pipes, whose villainous fumes, mingled with those of a tin pail of gin that stood upon the table, filled the apart- ment. There was another small opening from this, in which I could see a bed. Five other beds were in the room where I sat. In one corner was an idiotic boy, busily sucking the fingers of a filthy hand. Exerting myself to be agreeable, I soon succeeded in getting into conversation with an old man of seventy or eighty, who jocularly assured me that all these women here were his wives. "An' who is this Mike yer wantin'?" "Why, don't you know yer neighbors?" said I. "Ah! ye're blatherin', sure. Thim boys as slapes up in the attic comes wan day an' goes off the next. How would I know 'em?" The attic of Bilker's Hole is occupied every night by i" goniffs," (young thieves,) who sleep on the floor in lieu of a better place. It is also a favorite hiding-place for thieves whom  the police are after. Often, while the officer is coming up the stairway, the thief will lift a board in the floor and drop down to the apartment un- derneath, the occupant of which, be he man or woman, is sure to aid the criminal to escape. In desperate cases the offender has been known to jump from the open win- dows to the ground below, at the risk of being killed by the fall.          "OTH TO PART.        205 Notwithstanding the coolness of my reception when I entered, the company, for some reason, manifested reluc- tance to have me leave the room. But I got away finally, and found that Thomas, who had remained outside, was just on the point of getting a policeman to come and look after me. We proceeded to the entrance nearer the street, where is the stairway leading into the attic. This entrance is little else than a ragged hole in the wall, the bricks hav- ing crumbled away on either side of the original doorway. Near by it I observed a window looking on the court, in which there were a few bits of sash remaining, but not a single pane of glass. An old copy of the New-York Ledger was stretched over this window, which was so small that the newspaper could doubly cover it. The door was with but one hinge, and could not be shut tight, so that the wind and snow skurried in upon the wretched occupants. Occupants? Yes, in the darkness there sat a man and woman-in this place unfit for a respectable coal-hole--and we could hear them talking in low tones, sitting by a feeble rayless fire, without lamp or candle. But in the attic there is a parallel case of squalor. The attic is not wholly occupied by those city nomads, the " goniffs "--who are here to-day and there to-morrow -have plenty of money on one day, when they dine sumptuously at a cheap restaurant, visit the Bowery theatre at night, and sleep in a gorgeous thirty-cent lodging-house, on the next day go hungry for the want of a dime to buy " coffee and cakes " with, and " bunk down " in some dry-goods box, or upon the attic floor of Bilker's Hole! They have no monopoly of these -premises, it seems. Here is a family of four persons--a man, his mother,   206       ONE POOR GIRL. his wife, and his child-who actually d7well in this attic. There is no protection at the hole where the window should be except an old shawl, that flutters and shakes in the fierce wind to-night. There is no stove-pipe hole either, but there is a small cook-stove, the pipe of which belches out its smoke into the attic, to wander where it will. There are no chairs, no bedsteads, no " luxuries" of any sort. What is there, then? There are, besides the stove, a -straw mattress, without a sheet or a pillow; a small array of chipped and cracked dishes on a rude shelf; a miserable table--and the occu- pants. They have a. light, at least. A fire sheds a cheerful blaze upon the wretched group. Their pipes outsmoke that of the stove. They are conversing, un- conscious of our gaze; .and I never shall forget the pe- culiar feeling that ralnthrough me as the older woman removed her pipe from her lips, knocked out its ashes against the stove, and said, with a most expressive shiver: "Ah! I pities them as has to be out in the storm such a night as this!" O wonderful humanity! where is the heart in which it is ever crushed out utterly! This hag, from whose lips oaths dropped as if she had been born to them, whose hideous face was seared with the lines of vice, could look out of such utter squalor as this with a pitying thought upon the homeless night-wanderer!   CHAPTER XXXV. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) IN THE OLD BOWERY PIT-THE CRITICAL "GODS " - NEW-YORK RAG-TAGS. "THOMAS, we have been out in so much bad weather for the past few nights, perhaps it may not be unwise to keep under cover this evening." "It's an uncommon nasty night, Mr. Heysinger," said Thomas, rubbing his hands slowly. "I think I will ask you to accompany me to that tem- ple of Thespis known as the old Bowery Theatre. I want to sit in the pit, and observe my neighbors."   Disguised -as usual, we proceeded up Chatham street oneour way to the Bowery. Thomas called my attention to a condert-saloon that we passed, and I suggested that we should look in. "Oh! that's too nice for us," said he. Too nice, indeed!-a low, vulgar haunt of sin, but gay with gilding and " pretty waiter-girls." What an astound- ing reflection it was, that if we went in we would un- doubtedly be told to go out again! So much for clothes! Reaching the front of the old Bowery Theatre, we de- scended a flight of stone steps into a low, dark archway, where two or three dim jets of gas flared feebly in a stone- walled entrance like a prison; swung open a heavy wooden door, and stood before the ticket-office-a hole in the wall, into which Thomas thrust his hand and asked 18* - .   208       ONE POOR GIRL. for two tickets. The price was fifteen cents each. In his excitement--for Thomas was a little flurried-he forgot his change; and when he returned for it an instant after, a question of identity immediately arose. The ticket-seller was suspicious. Instinctively I went to my companion's aid, but my looks were against me, and I was told to "shut up." Thomas's honest face carried the day, at last; and we-passed through a wide but low-ceilinged bar-room, and entered the pit. The pit of the old Bowery theatre has often figured in print. In sooth, it is a queer place, and its like is to be found no where else in this great city. Its rough benches, on one of which we take our seats, were once painted, apparently, some dark color; but now the paint is worn off. The rude backs are hacked and hewn in a manner the like of which I have never seen since that long-gone time when I studied the alphabet in the old stone school- house" in my native village, where schoolmaster Myrick held stern sway. The urchins of the Bowery pit and the urchins of the country village school are alike, it would seem, in their propensity for using their jack-knives on the benches. Yet it is not wholly urchins who make up the motley crowd surrounding us. At least a third of the pit audience is composed of young men-some of them  by no means even rough-looking. Rags are abundant, how- ever. A  good third of the audience are' coatless, and sit in their shirt-sleeves. My next neighbor wears an old straw hat on his head, though it is such cold weather out- o'-doors. The boy in front of me has an awful mop of hair. 'On the next seat is a mournful chap with a'woful black eye; he has had a "thrashing" to-day, and has come here for consolation. Friendly salutations circulate from lip to lip. "How is ye, Jim?" "Hello, Shorty!"   IN THE PIT.         209 "Hullo, George-does yer mother sell peanuts yit?" "Ax me any other time but now, Gravy!"  "Luk' a' that! luk' a' that!" A boy has caught sight of my card and pencil. Is he suspicious of me? -If he is, my "rig ' is a settler; but the fact is, do what you will, you can not surprise these boys with incongruity; they see nothing re- markable in your ragged coat-it is too natural to them; and in this republican country education is so universal that rags do not necessarily imply ignorance. If this rough-looking fellow writes on a card, " that's his style," that's all; it creates no remark. As you sit here in the pit, you can not realize the rough, dark spot it is, in its contrast to the general gilt and glitter of the theatre. One night I came here in my ordinary dress, for a preliminary survey, and sat in the dress-circle. The pit was a vile blot on the scene--a many-headed moii- ster without individual members, as I looked at it from above; but, as I sit here to-night, a part of it, though I see its human items I do not see its blackness. That which meets my eye, as I look about the theatre, is all bright. How one might moralize on this hint! We can not appreciate in any wide and comprehensive way the black- ness of vice, so long as we'are a part of it; in order to do that, we must leave it and go higher. There, as we look down upon the scene we have left, we see its hideous colors. So the angels, perhaps, look from their starry heights on this wicked earth. The theatre-one of the largest in the city, having five tiers--is brilliant with a profusion of lamps and gilding. The ceiling, away up there like a sky, glows with frescoed alle- gories of the seasons, in a hundred gaudy hues. There is a handsome drop-curtain, representing an Arcadian scene   210       ONE POOR GIRL. of loveliness. The dress-circle certainly seems, viewed from the pit, as elegant with the fashionable glitter of le beau mzonde as Wallack's or the Academy of Music. It was vulgar enough when I sat up there instead of down here! The boys are getting uneasy. They begin to stamp with their feet-to cry "Time!" a la prize-ring, and "Histe d' ra-a-ag "--and to awaken the vigilance of the burly private policeman who is stationed among us to pre- serve order, and who whacks the posts every few minutes -with a ratan stick he carries, as a warning to the pit that he is wide awake. It grows warm, and I bare my neck of my cotton handkerchief; -there is nothing like being comfortable! My fellow-pitites show that they feel the heat, too; there is a general peeling off of coats on the part of the coated, and a rolling up of shirt-sleeves on the part of the coatless. r My next neighbor, a boy of ten or thereabouts, exhibits a full-length figure of a prize-fighter tattooed upon his bared arm with India-ink. He is very proud of it, and in answer to an inquiry, informs me that the artist of this chef d'euvre was a man in Mulberry street, near the Five 'Poinfs. The boy with the straw hat rolls his programme into a surprising imitation of an old-fashioned, long clay pipe, (such as the old gentleman on the title-page of the old Knickerbocker used to hold in his hand,) and smokes it with an air. Immediately he has a score of imitators, and paper pipes are seen in every direction. Another boy, catching sight of an opera-glass in the dress-circle, rolls his programme into an imitation of the glass, and stands up to scrutinize the fair ones above him. He is greeted with ashout of hilarious admiration.   THEE CURTAIN RISES.       21I 'Say!" cries one, " lend me yer oper'-glass, will yer? I wanter look at er friend in th' dress-cirkil!" "Wait 'll I git a bird's eye-view of that gal," he re- sponds. A brisk discussion is going on between two of the juvenile shirt-sleeved, upon the contents of a brass locket containing portraits of Union generals. "Who's that, Jakey?" ' "That's Sherg-Sherman." "Yer lie! Hit's Grant." "Shut up, er I'll whack yer; de fust one's Grant." "Why don't yer have Micklellan 'stid o' him?" "Augh," in a tone of disgust, " who's he? He's er fraud, that's wot he is." "Yer lie, Jakey." "Gineral Washington is better'n all of 'em, though; he knowed his biz." "Here, Johnny, don't that gal (in the dress-circle) look like my sister?" -a "So's that nigger wench up in the gallery look like 'er i" No negroes, be it known, are allowed in this aristocra- tic pit; their place is in the gallery, and we may see their dusky faces leaning over, away up there, hardly discerni- ble against the dark background behind them. The curtain rises, and there is a deep hush, broken only by occasional exclamations from the " gods "-who are thoroughly familiar with the actors, and are of an ex- tremely critical turn of mind. They have their favorites, and they make a noise over them, you may be sure. "There's Popkins; he's a bully actor; he kin fence!' "Bobbins is a smart little feller, an't he?" patronizingly. As the excitement of the play increases, remarks are fewer, and the critic is sunk in the intensely interested   2I2       ONE POOR GIRL. spectator. The glamour becomes perfect; They put their heads on one side in an ecstasy of interest, or throw their arms over the back of the seats to brace themselves. Some stand up excitedly, and if very small, this passes unnoticed; but if tall enough to obstruct the view of those in the rear, there is a cry of "Down front!" and "Squat, ye divils i" The play is based on a murder, of course, and the "gods " like it accordingly. Their critical tenets are not hard to enumerate. A feminine screech is a good thing; a masculine bellow is also good; a knock-down that sends the hit one keeling as none but a gymnast could keel, is better; a downright murder is best of all-and the bloodier it is the more profound is the satisfaction. To cap the climax, the murderer should be a rich man. This in melodrama or tragedy. In comedy, the broadly farci- cal is demanded; hence pantomimes are in great demand. There is a pantomime to-night after the play, and it is re- ceived with great delight. This crowd is patriotic, too. Any allusion to the glory of our arms in battle awakens uproarious applause. There is a scenic transparency which flashes forth a picture of "Washington crossing the Delaware ;" and how quickly this unwashed crowd recognizes it! When one thinks of the difference between this and a similar crowd in Lon- don, it is almost impossible to refrain from a certain feel- ing of respect for the New-York rag-tags. There is the inevitable American intelligence, even here; every boy of them can read a little; every boy is more or less familiar with the leading events of American history; every boy, in his rude way, reveres the memory of Washington; and you can always reach their better natures through the patriotism that lies at the core of their uncouth and gene-   REPUBLICAN POSSIBILITIES.      213 rally revolting characters. It is no impossible thing that this ragged urchin before me may be a man of conse- quence before he dies, and be respected by all his acquain- tances. I know just such men to-day, who have crawled out of this very slonlgh. Good-by, pitites! there are lower depths than yours. 1.   CHAPTER   XXXVI. THE LAST RESOURCE. THERE was no shutting their eyes to the bitter truth- Mary Bell was-sick. Susie, hastening to make a cup of tea for her, with her back to the window, heard a dull thud. She turned quickly. Mairy had fallen to the floor. With a fluttering heart, Susie ran to lift her. Mary was insensible--an inert weight, with face as white as death, and closed eyes. Without unnecessary outcry, Susie managed to carry her sad burden to the mattress, on which she placed her, Then she partially undressed her, dashed cold water in her face, and chafed the poor limp hands. Mary opened her dull eyes with a faint smile of grati- tude. "You're my darling, Susie," said she, in a voice so low and weak that Susie could hardly hear her. "Here's some tea, dear. Take a sup out of the spoon." But Mary could not. She tried, but her head fell back on Susie's arm., She moaned wearily, and when Susie begari to talk to her, trying to cheer her, Mary did not understand, but fell to murmuring wildly about other things. "Charley Turner," said she, her emaciated cheeks now glowing with the fierce heat of fever; "Charley Turner died of the smallrpox on Blackwell's Island in ten days."   SUSIE IS FRIGHTEN rED.     215 "Who is he?" "Ha? Don't you know? 'Well, where's your mother? He knows her. They're friends, I reckon, where they've gone." A great fear smote Susie's heart. Was Mary Bell going insane? For three hours the sick girl laughed, talked, and moaned by turns, while Susie sat by her side wetting her forehead with cold water, stroking her brow, and trying with voice and action to soothe her. Near night, the hectic flush died away from Mary's cheek, and her eye lost its wildness. The feverish spell had passed away. "Susie!" she said. a Yes, Mary dear." "Susie, have I been dreaming?" ( I think so, Mary." "Well, I'm awake now. Give me my work." "No, no, Mary. Leave it for to-day. You are not well enough to work." "Oh! I must! - You know -I must! Give it to me." "No, Mary, I. can do it to-night while you are asleep. It is nearly done, you know. Try to rest now, mind and body. You'll get well quicker that way, and then you will be able to work." But Mary would not listen. She whimpered like an infant. "Give me my work, Sue! I must do it. We'll starve if I don't. Give it to me!" Susie silently put the work in her hands. Mary, sit- ting up on the mattress with an amazing effort of the will, tried to thread the needle. The thread shot past the needle's eye twenty times. 19   216      ONE POOR GIRL. The girl's' hand, generally so dexterous in its skill, was now unmanageable. Susie threaded the needle for her. Mary stuck the needle in the cloth and pulled it through. She had made a stitch half an inch long. Her hands fell powerless. The work dropped by the' side of the mattress. "Can't do it, Susie. I'm sick. It's all up." "Don't say that, dear! I'm not sick, you know. Never mind the work. You'll be better soon. I'll never leave you, Mary-never." But Mary got worse instead of better. Every day she grew more and more feeble. Every day she said she should go to work' to-morrow. She passed hours in a dull lethargy, motionless as one dead. From the first, Susie kept up her spirit bravely. She set herself carefully to the task before her--wasted no time in idle tears-struggled inch by inch with the en- cloacmg tfoe. But, struggle as she would, Susie could not earn thirty cents a day. She was expert with her needle, but not at such work as Mary had been doing; and though she worked ceaselessly from the moment she awoke in the morning until midnight, and often long past midnight, she could not earn thirty cents a day. Her employer was worth a million dollars. At intervals, Mary aroused sufficiently to exchange a word or two with Susie, and thus they cheered each other. "It is so mild these days, Mary, that we don't need a fire any more, except to cook by; and not even that ex- cept to make tea with. You won't eat any thing hearty lately, and I always did prefer cold victuals in warm weather."   SUSIE SELLS THE STOVE.      2 I7 "I don't care for tea any more, Sue. I like cold water better than-any thing, unless " "Unless what, Mary?" "No matter, dear." But coaxing brought out the fact that Mary was long- ing for lemonade. "You shall have it," said Susie cheerfully-" as much as you want of it. And, since there's no use for the stove, I think I'll sell it. That's a good deal saved. Then the days are getting so much longer that I save a good deal in candles." "Besides, there's the five dollars we have stored up." "Yes, indeed," said Susie, as if five dollars, were a for- tune for a king-say nothing of a poor girl. "We shall get on; and you'll be well soon. There's nothing to fear." Brave little Susie! What changes were wrought in her timid, helpless nature by the mere power of love'! For the sake of Mary, she made her heart like iron. But the enemy encroached on her territory day by day. With the frequent care that Mary needed; with inter- ruptions in her work by delay in making up the bundles at the store; with going out on errands; with one thing and another to interfere, Susie's weekly earnings barely paid the rent. Loth to touch their hoard, she resolved to take out the stove and sell it. As noiselessly as she could, she took down the pipe, and drew the stove aside. Then she put on her bonnet. It had taken the united strength of both girls to carry the stove up and put it in its place. Now, in one of those moments when the force of despair takes the place of muscular power, Susie Garland lifted the stove in her arms and carried it down the creaking staircase.   2IS       ONE POOR GIRL. It was dusk. She bore the stove to the place where she had bought it, but the man would not even make her an offer for it. "Look at the stoves I've got," said he, " an' summer a-comin' on. I can't sell a one on 'em till winter agin. Take it to a pawnbroker." There was a pawnbroker's shop close by. It was kept by a Jew. Sickness, poverty, despair, and death were the things on which he throve. For the stove he offered Susie twenty cents. It had cost three dollars. Susie begged for more. They haggled over it for half an hour, and then he paid her forty. She bought some lemons and sugar with it for Mary Bell. Little by little, the five dollars trickled away. One by one, the articles of furniture and clothing went to the pawnbroker's. Still Mary did not rally. At last the landlord became alarmed for his rent. "Out you go," he said, " if you don't pay me prompt. I can't help it if you are sick. My wife is sick too. My rent I must have. You're pawning all your things. I'll just take this mattress for security." He drew Mary off upon the floor, and dragged the mattress away. "'This pays for a week," he said, as he went out. That was the first time Susie Garland broke down. She wept bitterly, and Mary tried in vain to cheer her. That night as the two girls lay upon the floor together the moon streamed in upon their faces, making them look preternaturally white. "Susie, you forgot to pray to-night." "Did I, Mary?" "Yes, dear. Don't'forget that now! I've got so mhch in the habit of hearing you that I miss it. Pray, -Susie-x-pray to your God, and I will join you in my heart."   CHAPTER XXXVII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) PAWNBROKERS AND THEIR WAYS-THE LOAN AGENCY- THE CHEAP-JOHN. THE Chatham street neighborhood is lined with certain dens of villainy yclept pawnbrokers' shops, exchange offices, loan agencies, and fences-places all of a com- mon genus, though of different shades of vileness; places familiar to robbers and thieves of every grade, as well -as to "reduced gentlemen;" places where almost any thing is bought, no matter by whom presented, from a flat-iron to a set of diamonds, and "no questions asked." No city of the world, London alone excepted, is so thickly peopled with these foster-parents of crime as New-York, and in New-York the Chatham street neighborhood is their hiving-place. It is only in the Israelite that this trade finds perfection. A Jew pawnbroker refuses nothing. He-will "make ad- vances" on the raggedest coat of the raggedest drunkard in the Five Points--which choice locality, be it understood, I here include in the Chatham street neighborhood. The poor seamstress, who comes shivering from her garret to pawn her only shawl to buy the bread for which she is starving, and the thief who produces a gold watch from his coat-sleeve, are alike welcomed by the Jew dealer. The shawl is piled in a corner with a lot of its kind, each 19*   220       ON3E POOR GIRL. one of which, could it speak, might "harrow up the soul" with tales of the wretchedness and horror with which they have been associated. The gold watch is quietly convey- ed into the dark cellar, taken to pieces, and immediately melted out of all chance of recovery in the furnace whose white heat is never suffered to slumber, day nor night, sum- mer nor winter. Of legitimate pawnbrokers-that is, those who do busi- ness under a license-the records show but sixty-six. This number may be taken as a good indication of the real ex- tent of the business, when it is borne in mind that the il- legal traffickers are beyond question in an immense ma- jority, pursuing their nefarious occupation in defiance of the law, and under the very eyes of the police. Of the legitimate ones--sixty of the sixty-six of whom are equal to any safe operation in rascality-probably fifty are Is- raelites. A well-known Scotchman is, however, the great whale in this sea; his wealth is namable in millions, and he has been in the business for some twenty-five years. There are several others who could lay down dollar for dollar, it is believed, with Alexander T. Stewart or Wil- liam B. Astor. Looking into one of their dingy little shops, it would hardly seem that these statements could be true, but it must be remembered that their profits are enormous, ranging probably from fifty to a-thousand per centum on every thing they handle, though by law they are not allowed to exceed twenty-five per cent. A pawn- broker's clerk in the Bowery was recently arrested for having embezzled his employer's moneys to the amount of considerably more than a thousand dollars per month -a total, to be exact, of $8318.70 in six months. Only in a very extensive business would such a course of thieve- ry be possible on the part of a mere clerk.   DEIVS OF INIQrUITY.      22I The dens calling themselves "loan agencies" and " ex- change offices " (not to be confounded, of course, in my reader's mind, with the respectable offices of Wall street!) are pawnshops of a worse character. Though existing openly, with entrance upon the street, they are so managed as to defy the police. Their windows are covered with a coating of white paint, admitting light but obstructing vision, and a high wooden partition close behind the door shuts out prying eyes from the street. Within, a villainous little Israelite, with beady black eyes, and a nose that sug- gests nothing so much as the huge beak of the ramphas-. tos maximus, wrings usury from his unfortunate customers with a heartless rapacity that grow by what it feeds on. The young business man, who has got into difficulties, applies to one of these cormorants as a last resort. It is this or immediate ruin. The usurer reads his victim's dire necessity in his face as he-enters; experience has taught him what expression impending destruction paints on the human countenance. "Vat can I do for you, ma friend?" he asks. The young man lays his necessity bare; -he wants money; he is willing to do almost any thing to stave off the instant peril, and get one more chance for escape: he offers as security his stock in trade, his house- hold goods, any thing he has in the world. The Israelite shrugs his shoulders. "Ma Gott! I have not got so mush moneys in the vorld!"He turns to a desk, and makes a show of examining certain account-books. He twiddles his watch-chain. He sticks his head into his safe. The young man is on nettles. At last his torment- or bethinks him of s" a friend" through whom he can get the money; but it will be difficult; it will cramp the friend considerably; however, it shall be done--for a " considera- tion." This means extortion of the most unscrupulous \   222       ONE POOR GIRL. character; but the young man submits to it, under the cir cumstances. Once in this merciless clutch, only the most signal good fortune can save him from being stripped to the bone. These places sometimes do-large strokes of "business ;" but they are always ready to buy such trifles as jewelry, watches, or whatever is incumbrous. Thieves learn their ways. But the places especially devoted to the accom- modation of thieves are a still lower depth. They make no pretense of respectability, and are well known to the police as " fences." The keeper of a fence knows, takes for granted in every case, that whatever is offered him for sale was furtively acquired. The Fagins of the Five Points bring him handkerchiefs and empty pocket-books; junk-thieves, who prowl about on the waters of the East river at midnight, stealing ship's cables, etc., come direct to him; the housebreaker hurries hither with his silver plate, jewelry, or whatever else he has secured in his last burglary; and over all Isaac rubs his skinny hands, and nods his bushy head, and chuckles and haggles. Pawnbrokers who do business according to law are re- quired to sell at auction all unredeemed pledges, and hold whatever surplus is realized subject to the order of the possessor of the pawn-ticket. So auctions are held from time to time, at which it is easy to see how goods may be sold to parties in connivance, at rates that leave no sur- plus. I have tested the question, at such auctions, by en- deavoring to bid off an article, but succeeded in getting nothing. In one instance the Israelites who crowded the little room scowled upon me with the utmost frank- ness, and one fellow--a lineal descendant of Absalom, by his long hair and beard-demanded, in a tone like the gfating of a file, "Vat you vant?-say!" Whatever I   BEYN MOSHEH   VEDA VID.     223 wanted, I could not get it there, and I said so accordingly. In another case I was quietly ignored, my bids never heard, the goods rattled off to the children of Jerusalem, so that, beyn mosheh vedavid, I was completely worsted. The auction-sale being completed, the "purchasers" take their goods and expose them for sale in the nume- rous stores Ifor second-hand wares that abound in that quarter. The larger and better-looking of these stores are found in the Bowery and Chatham street, while in Baxter and other Five Points streets there are scores of dark and dirty little holes-in-the-wall, overflowing with faded silk and calico dresses, (patched and cleaned as only a Jew can patch and clean,) coats, pantaloons, boots, house- hold goods, and almost every odd and out-of-the-way thing imaginable. At a store in Baxter street, near the corner of Mulberry, I saw a baby's coffin exposed for sale on the door-step, with a greasy Hebrew urchin sitting upon it munching a crust. In the larger stores, as is well known, one can -some- times buy a second-hand violin or a set of jewelry at a very'low figure; but no one who is not thoroughly ac- quainted with the goods he seeks will venture an encoun- ter with these dealers. The Jewish art of concealing de- fects is something next-door to the miraculous, as many a purchaser has found to his cost. The violin develops a crack most unexpectedly; -the jewelry proves to be pinch- beck; the revolver declines to revolve; the watch races like the hare or sleeps like the tortoise. An offshoot or adjunct of the pawnbroker is that curious character the "Cheap-John," at whom we must not forget to take a passing glance. The title is a specific one; but, despite his celestial-sounding name, the Cheap-John is   224       ONE .POOR GIRL. of the same genera with all his Israelite confreres. His place is only curious at night. By day, all is quiet; but as soon as the lamps are lit the Cheap-John mounts his throne, and c" the trouble commences." The whole front of the store is open on the street, from wall to wall, and when John is busy a crowd of the unwashed throng the room. Nowhere else can you see an Israelite under like circumstances with these; we seldom think of humor in connection with the Jew. Clad in a parti-colored shirt like the dress of a circus-clown, and wearing an outland- ish red cap on his head, John bellows to the crowd the great value of the goods he sells, with many a mirth-pro- voking grimace. -He has something of the inevitable He- brew accent, but he is full of quips and quirks and far- fetched jokes, that keep his auditors roaring with laughter. He will even imitate the brogue of an Irishman, and the humor of this is quite extraordinary. Anon he produces a violin on which he plays a rollicking air--generally an Irish lilt or an Irish popular song-and then he slips the instrument under the counter before him and immediately produces another, its fellow in appearance but not in quality, which he offers for sale with voluble praises. Shortly after he breaks out into a comic song of the class known in Bowery circles as a "Pastoral," which he renders with many a wink and leer. It is quite irresis- tible; and the crowd reward the vocalist by purchasing his goods, while he roars out that he is suffering with a bad cold. "Ven I'm vell, I've got a voice as sveet as a penny- trumpet." . That this fellow is entitled to the adjective in his name, it is most true. Every thing in his establishment is dirt- cheap-in the sense of being worthless.   CHAPTER XXXVIII. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) AMONG THE DRUNKARD-MAKERS-GERMAN, ENGLISH, AND AMERICAN LIQUORING PLACES. TO-NIGHT we are going to visit some of the " better class " (!) of places where liquor is sold. Not grog-shops, you understand-oh! not at all! The fastidious gentle- men who conduct the ornate temples of Bacchus in our great hotels, the fashionable " sample-rooms," the German beer-gardens, would be quite shocked to hear their estab- lishments called grog-shops. Grog-shops are low. We are not in disguise this evening; it is quite unne- cessary. Genteel vice wears the outward garb of respec- tability. We commence our tour at the ferry-house near my eyrie-building. Directly opposite the ferry-house is a fashionable " sample-room." The sign over the door gives us its name. There is a cigar-shop as an ante- room-its doors wide open on this pleasant spring night- and a dark-colored partition with latticed blinds at the top prevents the gaze of the passers from penetrating to the " inner world " where the guzzlers are. In this par- tition there is a door, which, yielding to our push, swings on silent hinges, and we enter the mysterious " sample- room." A black-walnut counter, or bar, with gilt-edged panels, runs across the room. Behind it is a sleek dandy   226       ON1E POOR GIRL. bar-tender in his shirt-sleeves; his linen is of immaculate whiteness, his diamond pin glitters brilliantly, he wears a rich velvet vest, and his hair is elaborately oiled and scented. A coarse apron protects his genteel attire from stray spatterings. He moves about amid a gleam- ing, grove of bottles, decanters, delicate green or cut-' glass wine-cups, upon black-walnut shelves or in glass cases. A silver-mounted mahogany beer-reservoir is at his back; a pair of marble soda-fountains flank it; a large mirror gleams between. Near the bar is a marble-topped lunch-counter, where, at certain hours, a " free lunch" is provided-where tipplers eat a cent's worth of soup or cold meat, and pay for it by drinking some fuzzy mixture at the bar. The floor of the room is covered with saw- dust. Though it is so early in the evening-between seven and eight o'clock--there are already here three drunken men, out of the seven loungers present. They stagger when they try to walk; they talk thickly, licking their wet mustaches, and leering with sleepy eyes, and gesticu- lating with uncertain hands. .One, of them is so drunk that he leans heavily upon the bar for support. He sings--I mean he howls--a senseless nothing, "Ho! ho! ho! ho-o-ah!" much as a donkey might bray it. He offers to shake hands with strangers, who receive him coldly, and turn their backs upon him. He asks the bar-tender for " s'm toddy; gi' me s'm o' that ole apple-toddy!" '"Go  'way, now," the bar-tender responds; "yer had enough. Go home." You think, perhaps, that the bar-tender is animated by a  half-remorseful sympathy with his victim, and, deplor- ing his condition, would send the fellow home before he is too drunk to walk. But your supposition is more kind   A DR UNKEN SCENE.        22 7 than wise. The truth is, the bar-tender-is aware that he is in danger of losing his license if he sells to this man; such is the -cruelty of the excise law! He observes a stranger present-myself, that is-a stranger who does not drink, but is looking quietly on, and- he has no assu- rance that that stranger is not a detective in disguise. So he remembers the law. Presently two well-dressed men enter from the street, walk up to the bar, and order liquors. The noisy drunk- ard goes up to them, and is anxious to claim an acquain- tance d The bar-tender warns him away. He does not go. Suddenly I see the bar-tender fly at him like a tiger, leaping over the bar, clutching him by the throat, cursing him horribly, and shoving him headlong into the street. A- policeman picks the poor wretch up-his broadcloth clothes muddied and disordered-and bids him go on. He tries to argue the point with the officer; shakes his fist at the closed partition-door' of the " sample-room ;" declares he is not drunk. "Go home, then," says the officer, sternly; " go right on now, or I'll shut y' up." If this advice is heeded, very well; if not, the drunk- ard sleeps to-night in the station-house, and pays a fine in the morning. I return to the sample-room, and engage the bar-tender in conversation.. "He was lookin' fer a fight," the man explains, busily washing dirty glasses with his beringed fingers; " he com- menced to tell me how 't I was light-favored." "Seems too me I shouldn't like such rough handling," I respond. "Aren't you likely to lose his custom after treating him so?" I was trying to look at the matter from his own stand- point. 20   228       ONE POOR GIR.  I'd rather lose his custom than the other two." I had not thought of that. This place is open at all hours of the day and night. It is, in point of fact, one of the quietest, best-conducted drunkard-manufactories in the city. Now we will take a horse-car and ride up town. There is a cluster of " fast young men " on the platform, smok- ing their cigars and talking loudly. They are dressed in the height of fashion, and are evidently " out on a lark." They are -very affectionate, and clap each other on the shoulder with the heartiness of jolly good-fellow- ship. Note them well; we shall meet them  again by and by. The car takes us up through the Bowery, and we get out at the Bowery Theatre. Adjoiningi this theatre is the largest drinking place in New-York. The doors are wide open, and we enter. This is the bar-room. A throng of thirsty tipplers are pouring fiery drinks down their throats. It is easy to tell what they are, by their as- pect-gamblers, rowdies, sporting men--American or Irish in every case-flashily dressed, big black mus- taches, glossy hatted. There is an incessant tinkle of bottles and glasses here, and a constantly coming and going throng. Standing here, we look beyond into the great open hall with its thousand gleaming lamps, its great crowds of people, its overhanging cloud of smoke. e We enter. The scene is a strange mixture of bedazzle- ment and squalor. The latter is exhibited in items of the vast throng, three or four thousand in number, seated at tables or strolling about. The former is exhibited in the place itself--its walls frescoed in the most splendid style, with Cupids, flowers, etc.; its broad arched roof glowing with gaudy colors, and gilt profusely; its huge bronze O                       . *   THE BOWER Y Bls/- -in   ',Iv. . Y  chandeliers, with tiers of flaring globes; its post-lamps here and there, its flaming jets upon the side-walls; its galleries, and imitation arbors, and profusion of glass. The crowd is a unique one, and is mainly composed of Germans. There are long-haired, slim youths just over from the vaderland, wearing an odd foreign look, which attrition with our people will ultimately subdue. There are spectacled, professor-looking Teutons, who probably keep barber shops, or play fiddles in some orchestra, when on duty. Especially, there are laboring men and mecha- nics, who come here with their wives and children, to drink beer and listen to the music. The latter is furnished by two huge " orchestrions "-mammoth music-boxes-and by a band of German musicians, who occupy a balcony high over the people's heads. Waiters are hurrying to and fro with arm-loads of beer- glasses; boys are sauntering about-crying " Ca-a-akes ! bre-e-etzels 1" sleepily; there is an incessant buzz of voices, from the nearest of which you catch such words as " Wie befinden sie sich !" Y"a, ja  " " Ich sage, ja !" 'Ohne ursache "     " Wohin gehen sie /"   Setzen sie sich 2" '  Zzei la-a-ger /" etc., etc., till one's head aches with the hideous noise. Suddenly there floats out upon the cloudy air the long, gliding strains of delicious har- mony, succeeded by a grander burst that thrills you. This is the secret of it. This is what the Germans come here for; this, and the beer. Probably this is the least objectionable phase of the liquor traffic to be found in the whole city. Yet its work is a beastly one. German drunkards are seldom noisy and demonstrative, and for this reason they do not figure so largely in the police-reports as other nationalities do; but they drink like hogs, and bloat most disgustingly, and   230       ONE POOR GIRL. are generally half-stupefied with the vile swill they swal. low in gallons. A sleepy, piggish sot is a less dangerous animal to society than a furious, whisky-demonized brute, at least. We walk up the Bowery till we come to Houston street, and turn into that vice-haunted thoroughfare. Probably there are more gamblers and blacklegs in this street, between the Bowery and McDougall street, than in any equal number of blocks elsewhere in the whole city. On about every corner there is a drunkard-factory of the " sample-room " class, and glancing into them as we pass on we see clusters of those peculiar-looking "gents " drinking their favorite " pizen," as they frankly call it, scuffling with each other, playfully slapping each ' other's faces, and otherwise manifesting their frolicsome disposition. On one of these corners, near to Broadway, we enter a place called the "House of Lords." The " sample- room " is distinctively American; -the German haunt we have also seen; the present institution is the favorite style of resort, where John Bull finds himself " at 'ome." We pass into a little entry like a cupboard, with a window looking into the bar, thickly' studded with bottles and glasses; push open a door at the left, and enter a room very nicely furnished. On the walls hang various engrav- ings, mainly representing race-horses, hunting-dogs, and portraits of celebrated actors. Of these latter there is quite a gallery. The place is much frequented by actors from the neighboring theatres, about midnight. On Sat- urdays, a unique stance yclept a " free-and-easy " is held, when old-fashioned English songs are sung, To-night it is very quiet. On the tables are such papers as Bell's ife in London, the London Punch, etc. Englishy men,   A FASHONABLE SALOO.       . 23I young and old, sit at tables, reading or talking, and drink- ing " tobies " of ale--little brown pitchers with a squab, fat imitation of a human face upon them. The bar is a little tucked-up place in one corner, hung with a profusion of pewter mugs, and presided over by a red-faced beef- eater with a preternaturally stupid face. We pass on to Broadway, and walking down a short distance, come to the entrance of Niblo's Garden, where at present is exhibited a depraving spectacle of half-naked French ballet-dancers. At the right is the entrance to a large drunkard-factory, which is considered to be at the "top of the heap." Passing through a broad hall, paved with marble, we enter a spacious room where dozens of fashionable dandies are lounging about, switching their thin legs with their thin canes, or thrusting their kid-gloved hands into the pockets of their monkey-jackets. The floor of this room is also tesselated marble, in alternate white and black blocks. The bar is of solid white mar- ble, elaborately carved, and behind it are huge mirrors in rich black-walnut frames, gorgeously colored punch- bowls, silver-plated wine-coolers, glittering decanters and wine-glasses, a gleaming hot-water urn, salvers of baked apples for apple-toddy, and four white-aproned dandy bar- tenders. At one end of the bar are bowls containing thirst-producing cheese, salt crackers, etc. At the other end is a desk with a clerk behind it, who receives the money and checks. A magnificent mirror reflects the whole room in its spacious depths; brilliant chandeliers shed floods of light; the ceiling is frescoed with fruit, flowers, and mythological scenes. We will seat ourselves in one of these deep and comfort- able arm-chairs. There will be an intermission between the acts of the bawdy play in the theatre shortly, and 20*   232      N0TE POOR GIRL. then you will see the thirsty souls come streaming out, to excite their passions still further with liquor. Ah! here they come-a pushing, crowding throng--elegantly at- tired, but no more gentlemanly for that, it would seem. They laugh loudly and talk noisily. . They stand up to the bar and pour down the fiery fluids with a gulp, in true American style. You recognize those young men who are so noisy there, do you not? We met them earlier in the evening, riding up on the horse-car. They have evidently had a good deal of liquor already, for they are pugnacious and quarrelsome. Ah! what is that? They are fighting! Some of the crowd rush up to part them-others cry, "Stand back! Fair play'!"The bar-tenders are ex- cited. A policeman rushes in-speedily called; but he is just a moment too late. One of the young men has seized a bottle standing on the bar, too fatally handy, and has felled his " friend " to the floor. The jolly good-fellowship of our car-riding acquain- tances has changed to this. Their "merry lark" has come to this end. The policeman takes the offender by the coat-collar--now thoroughly sobered by fright, pale and wild-eyed-and leads him to the station-house. The injured man is borne away, limp, lifeless, with bloody, drooping head. The one will wait, behind the bars of his cell-door, for the morning, the examination before a justice, the commitment to prison for his offense. His fate will depend on the fate of the other--the friend he struck to the floor-whether he lives or dies. Are such scenes common in this elegant saloon? No; but they are natural. ,.     CHAPTER XXXIX. MILES MAKES A PROMISE. ONE afternoon in June, Miles sauntered into his friend Heysinger's studio. ,, Heysinger," he said, "what is it that's changed your habit so ? You seem to paint one subject all the time. You used to do landscapes, and rural interiors, and that sort of thing, almost to the exclusion of every thing else; but for the past six months I don't believe you've touched canvas except to work up these strange night scenes from city life. Are you imitating Culverhouse ?" " Am I a mere imitator, then, Miles ?" " Well, you know I don't mean that; you surely are more original than ever, since you took to this line; but you know what I mean. These dark backgrounds, with groups lit up by the flare of candles--they suggest Cul- verhouse; and yet they are not like him. You must draw on your imagination a good deal, though. That cellar yonder, with its hideous crew of ragamuffins-you don't mean to say that it is from life ?" " A literal transcript," replied Heysinger. " I saw that scene one night in the Five Points; I came home at two o'clock in the morning, and worked till daylight on it." " Why, what sent you into such a place as that ?" Heysinger arose, and going to a dark corner of his    234      OE POOR GIRL. studio, produced a small picture which he placed in a good light for his friend's observation. "Does that say any thing to you, Miles?" "That? 'Why, yes-seems to me-certainly, I've seen the original of that face. By George! it's that girl you spoke of that night-the concert-saloon girl!" It was a picture of Susie Garland as she stood that night in the white glare of the calcium-light at the head of the stairway in Broadway. "I told you something about that girl, Miles, but I nmade one sad mistake in her case. I thought she was a traviala; I was wrong. I found out that she was only sinned against-not sinning. I painted her face from memory, never to lose it again, and I have been looking for her ever since, in vain.. My search has led me into strange places, and when I have felt in the humor for work I have painted these scenes; I could not touch any other." "But- you have been in the country. Have you made no studies? I heard you had bought a place somewhere up back of the Palisades.' "I have, and my mother lives there. I go to see her often, of course. I am going up this afternoon. It's only an hour by rail. You must come up and see us there some day. - But I have no heart to paint the Arcadian any more. It was there that I saw the little girl-face I told you of; the house I have bought was her father's home then, and the concert-saloon girl was the same, Miles." "The same?"                 ' "Yes. The little Arcadian girl came to this Babel, and I saw her thrice, and could not believe what my eyes told me. If I had known what I know now-but there's   A COJIMMON ERROR.      235 no use talking about that, I pray to God every night on bended knees, that He will let me look once more on that poor child's face. I have done her great wrong- God help me to atone for it!" "( How have you done her wrong?" "By judging her without evidence-by passing the verdict of guilty on her, before I had received proof that she was guilty. So we all err daily; all our lives. Some- times we discover our error later, as now I have done. Sometimes we are permitted to atone therefor, as now I pray to be permitted." Later on, when his emotion had somewhat passed by, the subject of Heysinger's journal arose. "Do you think you can edit it into shape, Miles?" "I will try. Those things are seldom worth much for literary purposes, but if there is any merit in your journal at all, George, I'll do my best to get it out."   CHAPTER   XL. (FROM HEYSINGER'S JOURNAL.) DE BLASI--SUNDAY IN THE FIVE POINTS-THE CHL- DREN'S SCHOOL-THE CONTRAST AND THE LESSON. A BRIGHT June day in New-York City! What that means of balmy air, and golden sunlight, and blue, blue sky, clear-and cloudless, no foreigneg can possibly know until he has seen the glory of an Amrrican June. My good friend Algernon De Bl6sd, ewho is proud of his Norman blood, found our American June suffi- ciently entertaining to stifle his yawns ior a whole week after arriving from Liverpool by the last steamer. But to-day, after breakfast had been an hour cleared away, I caught him--in the act. "Why dost thou yawn, mon ami?"I asked De Blase. "Sunday is a bore," he made answer. "What do you do with your Sunday?" "I generally use it for religious purposes," said I; " but if you like I will take you for a drive." "Very well," said De Blase'. A thought struck me. Without imparting it to my friend I went out and ordered a carriage, and we got in. "Drive to the Five Points," I said to the Irish gentle- man who occupied the box. "Fhwat, sur?" queried the driver, doubting the testi- mony of his ears.   THE ST. GILES OF NEW-YORK.     237 I repeated the order, and away we rolled. "I am taking you, Algy," I explained to my friend, "to the St. Giles of this metropolis. I want to show you how the American reformer is doing his noble worl in the hot-bed of American crime and degradation.". We presently turned into Broadway, down which vie proceeded at a rapid trot until we reached Worth street, when we turned the corner. Broadway is the scene of all wealth and prosperity; but you no sooner turn the corner of Worth street, out of Broadway, than you seem to have entered another sphere of existence. Elm street runs parallel with Broadway, and very near to it. The next street to Elm is Centre, and when you have crossed Centre you see the Five Points directly before you. -The reason why this locality is called the Five Points is evident as soon as you are in it. Worth street, Baxter street, and Park street here meet, and the last two cross, making five corners or points of varying sharpness. Coming out of Worth street into the beggarly little square-or rather triangle-I turned to Algy and address- ed him in these words, illustrating my remarks by point- ing, with my cane to the objects about us, while the car- riage stood still, and the driver listened open-mouthed: "This is the focus of New-York's misery, squalor, and crime. Near us here. you behold two respectable brick     I buildings, one of which bears on its front the words, FIVE  i POINTS MSSION ROOMS, and the other FIVE POINTS HOUSE OF INDUSTRY. They stand in striking contrast to the rickety, tumble-down buildings which surround them. They are oases in this- hideous desert of dreari- less." "Really?' murmured De Blasd, stroking his side-whis-   238       ONE POOR GIRL,. kers. "Must say, by Jove, it's the first time I ever saw an oasis four stories high, you know." "There, where the House ot Industry stands," I went on, " formerly stood the most atrocious nest of thieves, drunkards, and miserables in New-York. - It was a cluster of rickety, rotten wooden buildings, thickly peopled with' human beings of every age, color, and condition of infamy, and was the scene of innumerable murders. It was called Cow Bay in a general way, but there were several other titles attaching to parts of it-such as Murderer's Alley, Jacob's Ladder, and the like. The police despaired of ever curing this hideous sore, but philanthropy took hold of it, and it disappeared. The rookeries were bought of their owners and torn down, and this- brick building erected in its place. It became a home for such of les imiserables as would wash their faces and accept its clean hospitalities. Many did so, and were reclaimed from the evil of their ways. Where the other oasis lifts its four stories, Algy, stood another dreadful hiding-place of ini- quity.- It was called the Old Brewery, and with its his- tory are associated some of the most appalling crimes that ever were perpetrated. It was a tottering, filthy, old stone building, with yawning seams in its walls, and poverty glaring night and day with gaunt face and hun- gry eyes from its ragged windows. Now, behold! It is the home of peace, thrift, good morals, religious culture, and hundreds of little children rescued from the vile slums which here abound. It was in the Old Brewery that your countryman, Mr. Dickens, saw what he pictured of -the horrors of life in the Five Points. Philanthropy had not begun its blessed work here in I842, when Mr, Dickens came here, and therefore you, mon ami, shall see what Mr. Dickens never yet saw."   DE BLASE IS BEWILDERED.    '  239 "Yes?" said De Blas6, yawning desperately; " what is that?" "You shall see. Dennis, drive up before the Mission House." We got out upon the walk, De Blas6 protesting that this was more than he agreed to, you know, and mounted a flight of steps, at the head of which a door stood invitingly open. We entered, passed through a large, empty room, into a narrow passage beyond, and through the passage into another large room, which was not empty. On the contrary, it was full. I should say there were four or five hundred little boys here, almost all of whom had the marks of the Five Points degradation upon them in some degree. A gentleman bowed is to a seat on a hard bench against the wall, and we rested. !"Where are we?" murmured De Blasd, with a bewil- dered air. "We are in a Methodist Sunday-schQol," said I. Besides the numberless forms at which the urchins were seated--nearly every one of them with a Bible before him-the room contained three small book-cases with glass doors, a beautiful rosewood piano, wearing brown paper trowsers on its carved legs, a sort of pulpit behind it, and a few chairs and benches. As for the boys, they were a study. Almost without exception- they were decently dressed, and had clean faces and carefully combed hair; but the trail of the Five Points was over them all. Closely-shaven heads were abundant, and there was in many of the faces that inde- scribable expression of hardened worldliness and supreme impudencewhich is peculiar to the New-York news-boy and the Paris and London gamin. Here and there in the scene, however, you could catch a glimpse of a bright, 21   240       ONE POOR GIRL. pure young face, with handsome curling air, and a man- ner out of keeping with that of his fellows. I called De Blasd's attention to one who sat near us. He had a fair white forehead, intelligent blue eyes, and flaxen curls, and was dressed in a neat embroidered velvet jacket. "By his genteel aspect, De Blase," I whispered, "that' boy might be a gentleman's son." "What's he doing here, then?" "He was probably brought here a baby--taken from' some poverty-stricken death-bedside, adopted into this family, and reared as somebody's darling. His clothing shows that he is probably the particular protfg, of some up-town lady--for there are many ladies in our best social circles who choose protees- among the orphaned poor, and care for them lovingly'" "What a peculiar taste!" "Not only that," I continued, "but out of these chari- table- institutions have risen some who move now in our best circles themselves. If I have an opportunity, I will some day introduce you to a beautiful and accomplished lady up-town who, eighteen years ago, was a Five Points orphan, and who is now married to one of our wealthiest citizens." I then pointed out to my English friend, among the teachers, a gentleman who is the head of one of our largest and most world-widely-known manufacturing firms. He sat by one of the forms, hearing the Bible- lessons of a group of urchins. I also pointed out a lady who resides in Clinton place--" an up-town quarter which, like Hanover square in London, was formerly the home of some of our oldest' families, and still is inhabited by a few of that class "--of whom the lady pointed out was dearly one. She walked about from group to group,   HEYSIArGER TURNS TEA-CHER.     241 dropping a pleasant word here and there, and later in the afternoon she entered the pulpit-like desk and directed the vocal exercises. She had a strong, well cut face, rather aristocratic of aspect, with a Roman nose, arched eye- brows, and clustering silver-gray curls. She was dressed in an elegant black silk dress and fine black lace burnous. "Would you like to hear this class of little boys read their lesson, sir?" asked a benevolent-looking gentleman with a high forehead and long gray beard, addressing De Blase in a low tone. De Blase' said "Really," and murmured something about being inexperienced; and the old gentleman then- addressed himself to me. I complied with his wish, and going over to a row of half a'dozen urchins ranged upon a bench, assumed the novel position of a Sunday- school teacher. De Blase, not relishing loneliness by the wall, presently came over to me, and seating himself on a companion stool to my own, scrutinized the-class atten- tively. It was composed of four urchins of pure Five Points physiognomy, though of varying nationalities. One was Irish, another was Spanish, another was Italian, and the fourth was American, but they all spoke the Five Points patois. The Irish boy waS, strange to say, the meekest- looking of the four-pale, timid, and low-voiced. The Italian and the Spaniard were wide awake, active, impu- dent, and with great latent belligerence in their deep black eyes. The Yankee was an embodiment of mischief. He was pulling hair surreptitiously, indulging in furtive nudges of distant elbows, and making himself obnoxious gene- rally. To him I addressed myself: "What is your name?" "Johnny Green."   242       ONE POOR GIRL. "Where do you live, Johnny?" "Up'n Mulberry street, by de cawner uv Bayard." "What do you come here for, Johnny?" "Ter learn."            .  "To learn? That is very good. Can you read?" "You bet yer!" "Sa-a-ay!" spoke up the Italian urchin; " he spit'n nm' face!"  "Johnny, is this true?"I asked with solemn regret. Johnny shrunk into a corner of the bench and studied his book with great earnestness. Of course I read Johnny Green a severe lesson on eti- quette, and then I allowed him to read his lesson to me out of the book. He shot up on his feet, rattled off the sentence promptly, and dropped upon his seat again. The next boy, Giacomo Livi, shot up, read his sentence, and dropped. Juan Varela followed suit, very briskly; and Teddy Dooley, the meek Irish boy, took his turn in a low voice, and-with much  ' trying back."  The lesson in reading was thus quickly got through with, and I asked Johnny Green what was next in order. "Werses," he responded, making a frantic dive at an adjoining form, and snatching a well-thumbed Bible from an urchin who was using it, and who objected. There- upon ensued a  tugging and hauling among the boys for possession of the volume, which I found myself unable to subdue, and a  superintendent came to my aid. Order being restored, "Gi' me a bully werse, Mister," said Johnny Green. I  found him a verse in the Psalms, which he read stum- blingly in his eagerness to get through it, and then re- turned to his corner to commit to memory."-  Each of the boys in turn received a verse; but when I i-'             DE BLASE IS DISGUSTED.      243 was leading the timid Teddy Dooley through his, Johnny Green returned to the charge, and elbowing Teddy aside, said, "Gi' me that'n, Mister--he can't git that'n;" and turn- ing to Teddy, "G'way, you can't say that'n-yer mouf hain't big 'nough." Not to dwell over the scene, the whole impression it made on us is best described in the words of De Blase'., "Dirty little wretches!" said he; " what conception have they of the holiness of the Bible, or the beauty of the ' werses' they make such a clamor over? They only show a disposition to exhibit themselves, and remind me of nothing but parrots in their jabbering of what they don't understand." De Blase was further confirmed in this light opinion of the good work here manifested when the classes were disbanded, and the whole room resolved itself into a choir, singing in chorus. One of the teachers played an accompaniment on the piano. "Oh I how I love Jesus!'" sang the children all together, with precisely the same ex- pression they might have given to such words as ' Oh! rake her down, Sally!" De Blase declared that it was not only semi-blasphe- mous to hear these grinning, giggling, pert, or dawdling youngsters screaming the name of the Saviour in this manner,- but that it was an insufferably stupid perfor- mance, and the reverse of entertaining. '"My dear Algy," I whispered in his ear, " possibly the performance has other objects than your entertainment or mine. However, we can go at any time." 21*   244       ONE POOR GIRL. "Then we'll go at once,"' said he; and we went ac- cordingly. "I consider the whole thing an absurdity, and in some sense an imposture," said De Blas6, as we stood on the steps outside the Mission House. "Those youngsters have no more idea of the significance of the devotional songs they sing, or of the beauty of the psalms they jab- bered at you, than a parrot has of the meaning of its cries. As for the ladies and gentlemen who amuse themselves with teaching the little monkeys the tricks they perform, I really think they might find a more refining and elevating recrea ion in their proper circles of life. It don't make any one of those little imps a lover of Jesus to just teach it to bawl thlat it loves Him, when the summit of its ambi- tion is to outhawl the little imp next to it." De Blase went on for some minutes in a strain which showed that at least I had surprised him out of his cus- tomary ennui, and given him a sensation by bringing him here. He had not finished his indignant oration when it was interrupted by a frightful din. Shouts, yells, screams, ribaldry, oaths, wild laughter rose together on the quiet Sabbath air, and turning our eyes in the direction whence it proceeded, we beheld a hideous rabble coming around the corner of Baxter street. I immediately took De Blase by the arm, led him down the steps into the street, and directly into the midst of the ragged throng. Two dogs were fighting, and as we came into the crowd we beheld a huge black man wrenching apart the jaws of one of the dogs, thus to release the other dog's neck from 'the teeth of the first..  Curses loud and deep flew about in every direction, and a hideous-looking Portuguese, with his gums streaming blood, and his face livid with passion, sprang with a howl   A STUDY FROM LIFE.        245 ,pon the negro's back. In less time than it takes me to    i vrite it, there were a dozen fights going on, and just as I  i was thinking it might be wise to retreat, a posse of blue- moated-policemen came charging down upon the crowd, which they cudgeled right and left with their locusts. The principal combatants were arrested and taken to the     . Tombs, (that famous prison being almost within a stone's- - throw of the Five Points,) and the-crowd dispersed.      i That is to say, it scattered itself about in the neighbor-   i hood, standing on corners and in doorways, laughing and cursing in low tones, awed by the presence of a brace of    E policemen who stood by, clubs in hand, ready to whack any too-demonstrative head without parley. I allowed De Blase to look with horrified and disgusted eyes on the scene about us for a few minutes before taking him away. From experience I knew that we were in no peril here in the broad daylight, so long as we permitted none of these- men, women, or children to pick our pockets. After dark, no well-dressed man dare show him- self here; but by day there is no danger. Near us, on the sharpest of the , points," stood a dirty stand, on which a dirtier boy exposed for sale a quantity of boiled crabs, about which buzzed a swarm of gutter-flies. Big-mouthed Irishmen, swarthy Spaniards, sleepy-looking Chinese, hook-nosed Jews, stood all about, smoking rank tobacco. Women of various nationalities, Irishwomen in the worst of rags, and Jewesses in flaming gowns, were numerous. Heads of every degree of dirt and- squalor looked down from windows. In one window, an Irish- woman's head and a negro's head were thrust through adjoining squares of sash, from which the glass had been broken. I called De Blasd's attention to them. The ,   246       OAE POOR GIRL. negro was as black as soot; the woman's face was red from much potation. " They are man and wife," I explained. "They live in that one room, and have seven children, the eldest eight years old. I visited them one night last winter, dis- guised in rags, and accompanied by- a young man of my acquaintance, who was born and reared in this condition of life. You needn't stare so hard; Thomas is quite a worthy young man, and has as great a horror of these scenes as you have." While I was speaking, two ragged girls near us began to throw peanut-shells in each other's face, quickly passing thence to angry words and Billingsgate banter, and from that to a blow in the face, a responding clutching of hair, and then down they went upon the ground, kicking, biting, and scratching like furies. A policeman separated them, and they went off with loud weeping and wailing. Close by where we stood was a filthy groggery, a dark, dingy hole, which I found it impossible to penetrate with my gaze, though the sense of hearing plainly showed us that it was crowded with a number of men, boys, and women, wrangling and snarling like beasts, and cursing like fiends. Presently two of the women staggered out of the den, up its rickety steps, into the street. They were cursing each other furiously as they came, lolling out their tongues at each other, shaking their fists and wag- ging their heads. They, were both drunk, covered with dirt, theit faces cut and bruised in a dozen places, their dirty calico gowns hanging like net-works of rags upon their hideous forms. Suddenly one of them struck the other with her clenched fist, knocking her over into the black mud of the gutter, and scrambled off up the street, her Skirts gathered up in her hands, as fast as she could   DE BLASE IS HORRIFIED.       247 go. The shrieks of the fallen one were frightful; but after a little she crawled out of the ooze, and staggered to an empty barrel lying against a wall, and, sitting down, began to bellow her grief in earnest. It was a sickening and painful spectacle-this bloated, drunken, dirty sem- blance of a woman, degraded and brutalized, sitting in her rags, slobbering and sobbing, while the tears coursed down her beefy face, and her muddied hands wiped them away with woful effects. Barefooted ghouls wrapped in sleazy shawls stared at us as they scuffled by. A blind beggar, led by a little girl who could just toddle, went feeling his slow way past, his groping stick in one hand, a pitcher of gin in the- other. A boy with a crutch performed strange antics in the gut- ter close by. "There is plenty of amusement for you here, Algy, is there not? This does not bore you?" "Bore me!" murmured Algy. "-It horrifies me. I never dreamed such frightful sights could be seen in this new country." "Wickedness and poverty and ignorance are every where in this world," said I. "And now, may I ask you if you think our friends at the Mission House are so very foolish and useless in their work? They may nat teach the children to feel what they sing, but this they do . They rear those boys with consciences in their breasts. They instill into their ignorant minds prejudices, if you will, in favor of religion, or at least of morality, and these preju- dices cause them to grow up good citizens, who work in- stead of stealing-who keep the Sabbath with at least a show of decency-who have, in a word, at least the ex- ternals of respectability about them; and it is such things, after all, which prevent the whole world from   248       ON0E POOR GIRL. going straight to Tophet. Thieves, criminals of every grade, even murderers, swarm like vermin in these vile slums; children are begotten in shoals among them; but it is to the credit of humanity, even in its most degraded state, that'a thief rarely wishes his own child to be a thief --or if he does, its mother does not. The result is, that- great numbers of these people permit their children to be brought under the influences of the Mission. They are not converted into saints, as a general thing, but they are put into the grooves of respectability, and they grow up decent men and women." In this field, philanthropy does a sensible work-the work of prevention-the work which keeps the lambs back from the precipice's edge. 'God speed them!   CHAPTER XLI. "HOME!" IT was the middle of summer. All daylong the city lay gasping in the white blaze of heat, all night sweltering in close rooms with windows open, through which no breeze stirred. In the crowded, noisome quarters where the poor herd- ed together, foul miasma rose from reeking gutters, and clouds of poison floated on the heavy air. In the barren attic-room, Susie Garland sat in the fall- ing night, crouched upon a box against an open window. Her face was pinched and haggard, her lips drawn and blue, her form emaciated, her eyes wild and sunken, a wreck of her former self, and yet beautiful with a rare and curious beauty--the black curls of her luxuriant hair clustering in thick masses on her white forehead, and fall- ing about her shoulders,; the velvet-black eyes deep wells of mournful loveliness; the sweet face as-gentle in its ex- pression, aside from the despair in it, as a guileless child's. The room was bare of all furniture-absolutely bare; beside the box on which she sat, there was nothing in the room but the poor girl herself, and a motionless object in the middle of the floor, over which a few newspapers were spread for a shroud: the corpse of Mary Bell. Death 'had come in where only death could find an object for the most staleling greed.   250 O.      O   POOR GIRL. Two long months had Susie Garland borne the burden of two lives alone-and this was the end. She sat there by the window, in the stifling heat of the falling night, gazing up at the far-off stars as they grew dimly out of the leaden sky. Her blood was full of poison; the fever coursed like fire Athrough all her veins, beat its hot hammers in her fore- head, burned in her arid mouth. She thought in that hour of the green fields, so far, so far away. She heard the rippling of cool waters; she breathed the fragrant -breath of leaves and flowers; and her hot hands struck the senseless wood of the window- ledge before her, and she wailed forth in her agony: "God of the fatherless! help me in this hour; for I can bear no more!" She arose and left the window, and knelt on the floor by the side of the dead, and kissed the lifeless lips. "Mary! I would that I could be as you are!" There were no tears in her eyes; her veins were full of the fire of delirium, which knows not the sweet relief of tears; and suddenly she sprang up and turned swiftly to the door. "I will go!" she cried. "If I die on the road, then I shall rest, Mary! good-by!" She went down the long, dark stairs, leaving the dead alone with God. And she wandered out in that dark hour with a fierce, sweet thirst in her blood-for the smell of flowers, for the low of cattle, for the song of birds, for the murmur of brooks, for the breath of the summer breeze on her fever- ed brow. Only to get once more out into the pure air of the open country!-only to feel once more with eager, burfing hands the soft touch of green grass and leaves!   THE OLD FARMJ-HOUSE.       25I She sped through the noisy streets, moved-by some power other than her own volition-in the blind, blissful delirium of that hour gliding on she knew not how or by what paths-until at last she paddled the dust of the silent country road with her feet, and the night-breeze blew her uncovered curls about her face in luxurious disorder. She walked into the midnight, into the early hours of the morning, surrounded by a vast silence, broken only by the sounds she loved; into the light of day, when the cool morning air kissed her hot cheeks, and her eyes be- held the beauty of the summer-land for which her soul was sick with longing. Was it a dream? Here was the old, familiar scene in which she had passed her sunny childhood! Here was the narrow road with its thick wall of leaves; and at the foot of yonder winding lane she saw the old farm-house with its high sloping roof, and its climbing vines crawling and crowding to the chimney-top. "Home!" she whispered faintly, her eyes beaming with delirious joy; and, as if she would embrace it, she stretch- ed out her thin hands to the old farm-house, and fell down in the last tremor of utter physical exhaustion. 22   CHAPTER XLII. TURK CALLS HS MASTER. "TURK!" Heysinger stood bareheaded on the vine-hung porch' in the cool morning, and called his dog. A succession of &leep-mnouthed bays from Turk's shaggy throat was the dog's only response, as he stood over the prostrate form of the girl he recognized, and called his master. "Ah!" said Heysinger to his mother. "Turk wants me. He has found something out there. I must go to him, since, he won't come to me. He never calls me without a reason." And he went out through the rustic gate, singing a pleasant old air with his mellow voice% and thinking how bright and glorious the morning was. He came where Susie Garland lay. The song stopped suddenly, and he sprang forward with a  cry of pity and astonishment, gathering the poor girl's form in his arms. "' Merciful God! it is my poor little lost Arcadian!" He bore her in his strong arms into the cottage, and gave her to his mother's care. "It is Tootsey, mother," he said, as he placed his poor burden, all bedraggled with the dust and dew, upon the bed in a cool, quiet little chamber; , she has found her way back to Arcadia."   SUSIES AWAKENING.      253 "Thank God!" said Mrs. Heysinger fervently, and bent over and kissed Susie's unconscious lips. When Susie opened her eyes and looked -about her, she saw the vines which drooped across the little window, and through the window the pasture-land, and beyond, the old winding road and the blue sky, and thought her- self still a child, awakening as she had often done in the mornings long ago. "What a hideous dream!" she cried; and heaved a deep sigh, and turned her face again upon her pillow, with a great peace and gladness in her heart. But when, a moment later, she essayed to arise, and found herself too weak, she called out, "Mother!" Heysinger's mother came. Susie started with alarm. "Who are you?  Oh! was it not a dream? Are you going to drive me away again? I thought I was home." "So you are, dear. This is your home. You are going to stay here and get well." "Who brought me here?" "My son found you at the gate. You had fallen down, for you are sick. - We will take good care of you." "Who is your son?" "Come in, George," said Mrs. Heysinger. He was listening outside the door, with Turk crouched at his feet. They went in together. "Tootsey!" he said, coming to her bedside and hold- ing out his hand. "Don't you remember me?" She smiled sweetly, and took his hand and kissed it. "I know you now," she said. "You are the only good man in the world." She was sick for many weeks, but loving and skillful   254       ONE POOR GIRL. care attended her. Good food-actually good food for poor half-starved Susie Garland--a good bed, respite from work, and, above all, the fresh pure air of the country, helped to bring back to health and strength the emaciated girl whom poisonous air, hunger, cold, and maddening anxiety had nearly killed. As the summer waxed, she wandered among the flow- ers, her cheeks vying with them in color, her eyes recov- ering their old sparkle, her silky black hair its early gloss. "I will stay here forever," she murmured to herself, sitting on the ground and kissing the fragrant leaves which hung over her. "They will let me be their servant, at least." "Tootsey, you don't want to go back to New-York?" asked Heysinger one evening, as they sat around the table in the old kitchen, with fresh bread, sweet butter, rich cream and berries for their supper. Her eyes dimmed with tears. Was this a hint to go? "Oh! please no," she said, her voice trembling. "Let me stay here with you. I am strong again now, and I will work for you. I would rather be a servant-girl than any thing else." - "Very well," said Heysinger. "I dare say mother can make you useful." So she staid, and made the old house bright as of yore, and work was pleasure to her. * Between her and Turk there was a great affection. The old dog no longer followed his master to the city. He had found a mistress, and they had time for many a pleasant stroll together. "Dear old Turk!" she whispered one day, twining a wreath of autumn leaves about his neck, " there is some- body we love, isn't there?" ,   UNI TED.         255 Turk barked, and wagged his huge tail, as Heysinger parted the overhanging leaves and came into the grotto where they were who loved him. "I overheard you, Tootsey," he said, and in the blush which overspread her face she made explicit confession. "Do you love me well enough to marry me?" "God knows I do," she said, as he folded her to his heart, and Turk discreetly turned his head away, pretend- ing to be interested in a passing flock of sheep. They were married in the winter. Of the noble women who are most active in charitable effort among the poor girls of New-York, none works with more zealous heart than Mrs. Susie Heysinger; but though she labors in the city, she keeps her home in the country still, and loves it better than any other spot on earth. THE END;   "ST OF PUBLICATIONS OF J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. PHL ADELPHA . Will be sent by mail, pos tpaid, on receipt of the jprice.   The Albert 2V'Y^anza.    Great Basin of the     zile, and Explorations of the Nile Sources. By SIR SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R. G. S., &c. With Maps and numerous Illus- trations, from sketches by Mr. Baker. New edition. Crown 8vo. Extra cloth, $3.   "It is one of the most interesting and instructive books of travel ever issued'; and this edition, at a reduced price, will bring it within the reach of many who have not before seen it. --Bostonyourtnal.   "One of the most fascinating, and cer- tainly not the least important, books of travel published during the century."-- Boston Eve. Transcript.   The Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia, and the Sword- Hunters of the Hamran Arabs. By SIR SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R. G. S., &c. With Maps and numerous Illustrations, from original sketches by the Author. New edition. Crown / 8vo. Extra cloth, $2.75.   "We have rarely met with a descriptive work so well conceived and so attractively written as Baker's Abyssinia, and we cor-   dially recommend it to public patronage.  . It is beautifully illustrated."--N . 0. Times.   Eight   tears? Wandering     in  Ceylon.  By  Sir SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R. G. S., &c. With Illustra- tions. I6mo. Extra cloth,-$I.5o.   "Mr. Baker's description of life in Cey- lon, of sport, of the cultivation of the soil, of its birds and beasts and insects and rep- tiles, of its wild forests and-dense jungles, of its palm trees and its betel nuts and in- toxicating drugs, will be found very in- teresting. The book is well written and beautifully printed."-Bat,. Gazette.   "Notwithstanding the volume abounds with sporting accounts, the natural history of Ceylon is well and carefully described,. and the curiosities of the famed island- are not neglected. It is a valuable addition to the works on the East Indies."-Phila. Lutheran Observer.   Tricotrin.    The Story of a Waif and Stray. By OUIDA, author of "Under Two Flags," &c. With Portrait of the Author from an Engraving on Steel.- I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "The story is full of vivacity and of thrilling interest. "-Pittsburg Gazette. "Tricotrin is a work of absolute power, some truth and -deep interest."--N. Y. Day Book.   "The book abounds in beautiful senti- ments, expressed in a concentrated, com- pact -style which cannot fail to be attractive, and will be read with pleasure in every household."--San Francisco Times.   Granville de Vigne; or, Held     in Bondage.   A   Tale of the Day. By OUIDA, author of "Idalia," "Tricotrin," &c. I2mo. Cloth, $2.   - "This is one of the most powerful and spicy works of fiction which the present   Icentury, so prolific in light literature, has produced."   Strathmore; or, Wrought by His Own Hand. A Novel. By OUIDA, author of "Granville de Vigne," &c. I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "It'is romance of the intense school, but it is written with more power, fluency and brilliancy than 'the works of Miss   Braddon and Mrs. Wood, while its scenes and characters are taken from high life." -Boston Transcri#t.   Chandos. A   Vovel. By Ouida, author of 'Strath- more," "Idalia," &c I2n1mo. Cloth, $2.   "Those who have read these two last- named brilliant works of fiction (Granville de Vigne and Strathmore) will be sure to read Chan7dos. It is characterized by the same gorgeous coloring of style and some,   what exaggerated portraiture of scenes and characters, but it is a story of surpassing power and interest."-Pittsburg Evening Chronicle.   Idalia.  A Novel. By Ouida, author of     "Strath- more," "Tricotrin," &c.: I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "It is a story of love and hatred, of affection and jealousy, of intrigue and de- votion. . .. We think this novel will at- tain a wide popularity, especially among   those whose refined taste enables them to appreciate and enjoy what is truly beau- tiful in literature."-- A bany Evening yournal.   Under Twzo Flags.      A Story of the Household and the Desert. By OUIDA, author of "Tricotrin," "Granville de Vigne," &c. I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "No one will be able to resist its fasci- ' nation who once begins its perusal."- Philada. Evening Bulletin. "This is probably the most popular work   of Ouida. It is enough of itself to estab- lish her fame as one of the most eloquent and graphic writers of fiction now living." -Chicago .ournal of Commerce.   Ouida's N2ovelettes.     First Series, Cecil Castle- maine's Gage. Second Series, Randolph Gordon. Third Series, Beatrice Boville. Each of these volumes contains a selection of "OUIDA'S"Popular Tales and Stories. I2mo. Cloth, each $I.7q.   "The many works already in print by this versatile authoress have established her reputation as a novelist, and these short stories contribute largely to the stock   of pleasing narratives and adventures alive to the memory of all who are given to romance and fiction;"---N. Haven your.-   ThIe Old Mam'selle's Secret.      After the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Gold Elsie," "Countess Gisela," &c. By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Sixth edition. I2mo. Cloth, $I.75.   "A more charming story, and one which, having once commenced, it seemed more difficult to/leave, we have not met with for many a' day."-The Round Table. "Is one of the most intense, concentrated, compact novels of the day.. . And the work has the minute fidelity of the author   of 'The Initials,' the dramatic unity of Reade, and the graphic power of George Elliot."-Columbus (O.) -ournal. "Appears to be one of the most interest- ing stories that we have had from Europe for many a day."--Boston Traveler.   Gold Elsie.    From   the German  of IE. Marlitt, author of the "Old Mam'selle's Secret," "Countess Gisela," &c. By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Fifth edition. i2-mo. Cloth, $I.75,   "A charming book. It absorbs your attention from the title-page to the end."- Tize Home Circle.   i"A charming story charmingly told."-- Baltimore Gazette.   Countess Gisela.    From   the Gertman  of E. Mar- litt, author of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," "'Gold Elsie," "Over Yonder," &c. By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Third Edition. I2mo. Cloth, $1.75.   "There is more dramatic power in this than in any of the stories by the same author that we have read."--N. O. Times. "It is a story that arouses the interest   of the reader from the outset,"--Pttsburg Gazette. "The best work by this author."-- Philada. Telegraph.   Over Yonder. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Countess Gisela," "Gold Elsie," &c. Third edition. With a full-page Illustration. 8vo. Paper cover, 30 cts.   "' Over Yonder' is a charming novel- ette. The admirers of 'Old Mam'selle's Secret' will give it a glad reception, while those who are ignorant of the merits of   this author will find in it a pleasant in- troduction to the works of a gifted writer." -Daily Sentinel.   Three  Thousand   Miles  through the Rocky Moun- tains. By A. K. MCCLURE. Illustrated. I2mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $2.   "Those wishing to post themselves on the subject of that magnificent and ex- -traordinary Rocky Mountain dominion should read the Colonel's book."-New York Times. !"The work makes onepf the most satis- factory itineraries that has been given to us from this region, and must be read with both pleasure and profit."-Philada. North A merican. '; We have never seen a book of Western' travels which so thoroughly and completely satisfied us as this, nor one written in such A   agreeable and charming style,-.Bradford Reportr. "The letters contain many incidents of Indian life and adventures of travel which impart novel charms to them."'-Chicago Evening Jourznal  "The book is full of useful information." -New York Independent. "Let him who would have some proper conception of the limitless material rich- ness of the Rocky Mountain region, read this book."-Charleston (S. C.) Courier.   Bulwer's Novels.     Globe Edition.    Complete in twenty-two volumes. With Frontispiece to each volume. Beau- tifully printed on fine tinted paper. I6mo. Extra cloth, $33; extra cloth, gilt top, $38.50; half calf, neat, $55; half Turkey, gilt top, $66; half calf, gilt extra, $66. Each novel sold separately, as below, in extra cloth, at b$.50 per volume.   The Caxtons ............ I vol. My Novel ..............2 vols. What will He Do with It?..2 vols. Devereux ........ ....... vol. i Last Days of Pompeii ....I vol. Leila, Calderon and Pilgrims. i v. Rienzi ................. x vol. -The Last of the Barons.. I vol. Harold.  ... ........... vol. Eugene Aram........... vol.   Zanoni ..................I vol. Pelham ................. I vol. The Disowned ........... I vol. Paul Clifford ............ vol. Ernest Maltravers ........I vol. Godolphin .............  I vol. Alice ...  ........ ....  vol. Night and Morning .......I vol. Lucretia ................I vol. A Strange Story ......... I vol.   "The Globe edition of Bulwer is very neat and satisfactory--more satisfactory than any other issued in this country."- Philada. North A merican. "The Globe edition is remarkable for a judicious combination of cheapness, legi- bility and beauty."-Charleston Courier. "We have repeatedly borne witness to the pre-eminence of the Globe over all other editions, in respect to cheapness, neatness arid convenience of size."-Cin- cinnali Gazette. "The -clear-cut type, delicately-tinted paper and tasty binding of this Globe edi- tion of Bulwer's works cannot be awarded too much praise."- Rural New Yorker. "We repeat what we have so often be- fore stated--that the Globe edition is the best ever issued on this side of the Atlan- tic."-New Orleans Timses.   "The Globe edition of Bulwer furnishes a model well worthy of imitation."- Philada. Age. "As to execution and price, there is no better edition in the market."-Chicago Eveninzg yournal. "We congratulate this well-known Phi- ladelphia publishing house upon furnish- ing so complete, so legible, so compact and so beautiful an edition of the writings of this great novelist. The American book-buying and book-reading public will not fail to place this fine edition upon their library shelves. It is the best cheap edition of Bulwer that we have ever seen. It is offered at the low price of $I.50 per volume, at which price the purchaser gets the best part of the bargain."-Providence Even- ing Press.   Reade's Novels.    Illustrated Standard Edition of Charles Reade's Novels. Complete in ten vols. I2mo. With Engraved Frontispiece and Vignette Title to each. Handsomely bound in extra cloth. Price, $I5 per set. Extra cloth, gilt top, $17 per set. Sold separately, in extra cloth, as follows:   Hard Cash .............. I.75 Love me Little Love me Long .......  .......... I.50 Never too Late to Mend.. 1.75 White Lies.............. 1.50 Foul Play. ..    ..... 1.50   The Cloister and the Hearth$s.75 Griffith Gaunt ............ 1.50 Peg Woffington .......... .25 Christie Johnstone....... 1.25 The Course of True Love Never did Run Smooth. 1.25 .    Hintsfor Six Months in Europe.      Being the Pro- gramme of a Tour through parts of France, Italy, Austria, Saxonv, Prussia, the Tyrol, Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, England and Scotland, in the Summer of I868. By JOHN H. B. LATROBE. I2mo. Toned paper. Extra cloth, $1.50.   "It has many of the best advantages of a regular guide-book, with the additional excellence of being reliable as to facts and trustworthy as to the opinions it utters."- New York Christian Advocate. "' Mr. Latrobe had some capital qualifi- cations- for producing a good book about Europe. ... The result is a highly satisfactory volume, which we commend and recommend to travelers, whether they go abroad or stay at home."-The Phila- delpihia Press.   "Is a genuine treasure-book for every new European traveler. . . . And if this programme should be carefully studied by one about to start on a summer tour in Europe, and be substantially followed by the tourist, he would secure for himself manifold more enjoyment, and save him- self from countless disappointments and vexations which he would be sure other- wise to experience."-Boston Evening Traveler.   Liz pincott's Treasuries of Literary Gems.. Min- iature 4to. Choicely printed on the finest toned paper and beauti- fully bound in extra cloth, gilt and gilt edges. 75 cts. each; as follows;   I. A Treasury of Table Talk. II. Epigrams and Literary Follies. "I. A Treasury of Poetic Gems. IV. The Table Talk of Samuel Johnson; LL. D. V. Gleanings from the Comedies of Shakspeare. VI. Beauties of the British Dramatists. The six volumes in neat box, $4.50.   "A charming little series, well edited and printed. More thoroughly readable little books it would be hard to find: there   is no padding in them: all is epigram, point, poetry or sound common sense."- London Publishers' Czrcular.   Mizfah. Friends at Prayer. Containing a Prayer or Meditation for each day in the Year. By LAFAYETTE C. "OOMS. I2mo. Beautifully printed on- superfine tinted paper, within red lines. Fine cloth, $2. Extra cloth, gilt edges. $2.50.   This work proposes Morning and Even- ing Scripture Readings, and an Evening Meditation. The Morning Readings em- brace the Psalms twice, and the evening, the New Testament entire, during the   year. The Meditations are not exposi- tions of the text, but rather devotlonal reflections-generally upon the Evening Reading--and intended to follow the Scripture and precede prayer.   The Wife's Messengers: A Novel. By Mrs. M. B. HORTON. I2mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $1.75.   "The writer has produced a capital con- tribution to- the cause of domestic truth, and one which will be read with delight in many a household."--Ohio Statesman. "This story is pervaded by a strong re-   ligious feeling. The story is well worth reading on its own merits, and some por- tions of it are written with a real power thlat cannot fail to command attention."-- Philada. Evening Telegraph.  Agnes Wentworth. A Novel. By E. Foxton, author of "Herman," and "Sir Pavon and St. Pavon." I2mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $x.50.   "This is a very interesting and well-told story. There is a naturalness in the group- ing of the characters, and a clearness of definition, which make the story pleasant and fascinating. Phases of life are also presented in terse and vigorous words... It is high-toned and much above the aver-   age of most of the novels issuing from the press. "-Pittsbuzrg Gazette. "A novel which has the merit of being written in graceful and clear style, while it tells an interesting story."--The Inde- pendent. I   Siena. A Poem. By A. C. Swinburne. [Repub- lished from Lipincolt' s Magazine.] With Notes. I6mo. Tinted paper. Paper covers, 25 cts.   "Is polished with great care, and is by far the best composition we can recall from Swinburne's pen, in more than one of its -effects."-Philada. North Amierican.   "One of the most elaborate as well as the most unexceptionable of his produc- tions."- 'r. Y. Evening Post.   Recollections of Persons and Places in the West. By H. M. BRACKENRIDGE, a native of the West; Traveler, Author, Jurist. New edition, enlarged. I2mo. Toned paper. Fine cloth, $2.   "A very pleasant book it is, describing, in an autobiographical form, what was 'The West' of this country half a century ago."-Philada. Press. "The writer of these 'Recollections' was born in I786, and his book is accord-   ingly full of interesting facts and anec- dotes respecting a period of Western his- tory, which, when the rapid growth of the country is considered, may almost be called Pre-Adamite."--Bostos  Everintg Tran- script.   Infelicia.   A Volume of Poems.    By Adah Isaacs MENKEN. i6mo. Toned paper. Neat cloth, $I. Paper cover, 75 cts. With Portrait of Author, and Letter of Mr. Charles Dickens, from a Steel Engraving. Fine cloth, beveled boards, gilt top, $1.50.   "Some of the poems are forcible, others are graceful and tender, but all are per- vaded by a spirit of sadness. "-- asfinzg- ton Evening Star. "The volume is interesting, a's reveal, ing a something that lay beyond the vul- gar eyes that took the liberty of license   with the living author's form, and it serves to drape the unhappy life with the mantle of a proper human charity. For herein are visible the vague reachings after and reminiscences of higher things."-Cin- cinnati Evening Chronicle.   Dallas Galbraith. A Novel.     By Mrs. R. Hard- ING DAVIS, author of "Waiting for the Verdict," "Margaret Howth," "Life in the Iron Mills," &c. 8vo. Fine cloth, $2.   "One of the best novels ever written for an American magazine."--Philada for- . ing Rost. "The story is most happily written in all respects."- The North Anmercan. I'"As a specimen of her wonderful in- tensity and passionate sympathies, this sustained and wholly noble romance is   equal or superior to any previous achieve- ment. "--Phil ad. Evening Bulletizn. "We therefore seize the opportunity to say that this is a story of unusual power, opening so as to awaken interest, and maintaining the interest to the end."*- The National Baptist.     
         
       
   
