
    ----CITATION----
        O'Brien, Dillon.. The Dalys of Dalystown .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7348
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Dalys of Dalystown 
            
                 THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. BY DILLON O'BRIEN. "The thread of our life would be dark, Heaven knows I If it were- not with friendship and love intertwined; And I care not how soon I may sink to repose, When these blessings- shell cease to be dear to my mind."--Moore  1866. "I O N INER PRINTING COMPANY.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, by DILLON O'BRIEN, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Minnesota.   CHEAPTER I. INTRODUCTION. In the winter of 185-, I was located-perhaps it mlay be more expressive to say--I was frozen in, at La Pointe, Wisconsin. My house stood on a patch of land overlooking Lake Su- perior; Mr. Robins, the Barnum of English auctioneers, would have described it as a romantic, airy residence. I, who wish to adhere to truth, confess that it was a cold, windy, miserable shanty. At the time I write of I had charge of the Government Indian school on the Island. The occupation of teaching was a new one to me, indeed, up to a late period of my child- hood, I had supposed that a pedagogue came, some how, into the world, spectacles on nose and birch in hand. To imagine that he had ever been a littleI helpless child, ban- daged in swaddling clothes or that, like myself, in a few years after the'removal of the bandages, his exposed feel- ings were lacerated with a cane, were things too preposter- ous to be thought of: I cannot say thIat I have ever altogether lost this early impressionl; so I accepted the situation of teacher, with a kindred feeling to Mr, Pickwick when he took upon him- self the office of coachman. "All right," said Mr. Pickwick, "'with an inward presentment that all was wrong. But if teaching was new to me, my system, like Dr. O'Toole's, was new too, which is a great thing nowadays," On an evening towards the close of January, I was sit- ting in my shanty, my wife was getting the children to bed, and I had turned to the stove when their bright faces    4        TIIE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. left me, but though, so far as imparting heat went, i\ was well enough, there was neither a smile or a story to be had from its black face. Then there came to me a long. ing-oh! how intense a longing-for the blazing, cheerful, laughng fire in the big old family grate at home, with its castles and towers toppling down, its red knights and fiery dragons di sappearinfg, little by little, up the wide chimney, until, with the recollection of the old fire place, came mem- ories of those who were wont to sit around it. My thoughts soon became sad, very sad, so I gave a kick to the stove to rouse myself from them, (thank God, a work- ingman has not much time to givJ to sad reveries,) and then went to the door to look out at the night. The door of my one sitting room was also my hall 'door, pleasantly opening to the lake, so that the wind could come in, in a free and easy way, without the formal ceremony of passing through a hall, and I have remarked that this is a favorite style of architecture in this part of the world, where the thermometer ranges for four months in the year, from fifteen to forty-five degrees below zero. I have no great knowledge of architecture, but I should judge this to be the cold, chaste style. The night was beautifully bright-cold, still and bright, with a million stars twinkling in the sky, but, what a dreary prospect did they .look down upon. The snow covering the even surface of the ice, made the lake look like a vast, white desert, bordered by the dark outline of the shore of the main land. I suppose my short reverie had made me somewhat nerv- ous and discontented, for though the landscape before me was familiar ejnough, it struck me now with a strange chill; it appeared desolation itself, not grand or awe-inspiring, but bleak, blank, and dreary. Not a living thing moved, not a leaf stirred in the night air, to speak of life; the waves dashing against the shore would have done so, but the waters lay locked in their icy sleep. With such a scene before him, one might picture to himself creation at an end, the world, with all its sins and follies, and wonders worn out, the play over, the actors gone. 1 shut the door, and returned to the stove.   TE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.  "I wonder where they'll bury it," I said. "Bury what " asked my wife, from the inner room. TIhe world, my dear;"I replied, ,it s dead outside, My wife was about malig some reply, when the sound of sleigh bells reached uS.          sound "There's a sleigh" said she, ,I wonder who it can be at this hou :r.) . ' "Noone to us, Lizzy," Ireplied. I" don't think anyof our friends round here come it higher than dogs, and their approach is generally first announced to the calves of the legs of tose who may be unfortunate enough to be in their way." "But the sleigh has stopped at our door." said my wife. "Then, you may be sure it can't get on," I answered At that moment there cname a loud knocking at the door; I opened it, and a gentlemnan entered the room. "Could you direct me," he said, " where" but'he sud- denly stopped, and: then added. "Perhaps you are the gentleman whose house I was about to inquire for. Is your name   n I answered, "yes." He at once gave me his hland, and he did this in such a frank, pleasant way, that though I felt certain I had never seen Iimn b efore, I gave it a hearty shake. "If I an not mistaken,' he said, " you and I have a mu- tual friend. You know G. C. .A "He is my dearest friend," I answered. "All right," he said, "I promised him to hunt you up, should I  ever come'to this part of the world. I have for-, gotten, though, to introduce myself;- my name is "Of .   I  asked. "The same," he replied. "Your name has been familiar to me since childliood," I said,  a and of late C. has frequently written about you, I am glad to see you." A  nd again we shook handd. Very likely, I would have kept him standing in the cold some time longer, for when anything occurs which gives me   great pleasure, I am apt to be a little absent minded, but one of the horses stirring made the bells ring.   6       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWlN. "I fear," said M:r. ," 'you have no place where I can put up my horses." He had had a starlight view of my shanty, and its sur- roundings, as hle drove up. "A hen-coop-"I began, when he interrupted me. "Don't mention it," hle said, laughng,. "Not for worlds would I disturb the rooster." "No fear of that'"I answered, joining in the laugh, "G we ate the sultan and his whole harem, last Christmas. But, I was about to say, that though a hlen-coop is the only place I have for live stock, still, I can get a comfortable barn for your horses; so if you get over to the stove, I will take them along and see that they are attended to." Just then, my wife came into the room, with a young one, half dressed, holding on to her 'skirt, and peeping at the stranger from behind its folds. I introduced Ar. to mly wife, put some wood into the stove, whispered to my little boy, who had taken advantage of my lowly position, to climb upon my back and ask me who the stranger was, that "he was Fin McCool, the great Irish giant," hoping that the information would induce him to make tracks for bed, telegraphed to my wife to get a little supper ready, and then set off to put up the horses. When I returned, whch I did as quickly as possible, I found my guest unshawled, sitting at the stove, withl the child upon his knee. It seemed, in the short timne that had elapsed between my going and return, they had established that commune of interests so long sighed for by Mr. Owen, for the little fellow had abstracted the pin which held my guest's scarf, and was in the act of handing it to his mother to put away for him. We all have met with people to whom we have taken a dislike at first sight, and others again to whom our hearts were drawn the moment we met with them; the latter was the feeling with which my guest inspired me. To be sure, I had heard of him before; heard much in hs praise, and was predisposed to like him; but, apart from this, there was something very winning in that handsome face now turned toward me. I felt convinced, that clear eye had never sought the   t^ THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ground in fear or shame, and the set of that handsome mouth, (now so soft in its expression,) showed, that though it might quiver at a tale of sorrow, it could grow stern, nay, fierce, in the presence of danger. Mr. 's age, as I afterwards learned, was about fifty, but he did not look so old. His tall figure was so erect and elastic, his fine'intellectual head, sat with such a light grace between his broad shoulders, and his features wore such a fullness of life in thteir expression, that as yet, there were none of the marks of decay about him; but neither had his features that fresh, effeminate look, which some- times deceives one, and which I look upon as very fright-. ful. What can be more trying to the nerves, than to meet a man with pinky hair, pinky eyes , and pinky cheeks, and, Just as you go up to-the little fellow, to ask him what mar- bles he has got in his pocket, you find out that he is older than your grandfather?  Before my guest had well warmed hinmelf at my fire, my heart had warmed to him. I found, too, that I was indebt- ed to him for a singular act of kindness, considering that up to this, we had been strangers to each other. In the course of conversation, he told me that he had . come through from Saint Paul, on his way to Superior City, where he had some land he was anxious to see, before dis- posing of. "But," said I,;" this was not your direct route from Saint Paul to Superior." "No," he replied, "but I came a little out of my way to pay you this visit. 1 am not pressed for time, and I wished to keep my promise of calling upon you, which I made to C." "C., then," I replied, "has added another to the many acts of kindness I have experienced from him, by engaging Ior me this pleasure. But how can I thank you ' " "Never  mind doing so," he answered. ",C. has often spoken of you, and I was anxious to meet with you."'  "He could not have spoken much in favor of a ' ne'er do weel,' like me." "Oh, you want me to pay you some compliment;" he answered, -' well it is something in your favor that C. calls you his friend. And now tell me, how do you like Americ a?"   8       THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN. "Oh, like, is too poor a term," I replied, "I love America, I love it for it has given my children a home; I love it be- cause it is the sanctuary where millions of my countymen have found refuge; I love it for the atmosphere of fieedom which fills it from the Atlantic to the Pacific!" "I am glad to hear you say all this," replied Mr. (' But when you speak of this country giving your children a home, why do you not include yourself also a" I believe there was a shade of sadness in my voice as I replied: Because'I cannot wean my heart from my old home; it had struck its roots too deep in my native land to allow of their taking hold with the vigor of new shoots in another soil; it is different with my children, though I would not have you suppose I fail to impress upon them that, wherever my bones may rest, their fortunes, their energies, their lives should be ever at the disposal of our beloved and sorrowing country. I trust that fidelity to Ireland will not incapaci- tate them from being good citizens of this country." "On the contrary," replied Mr.  "He who is forget- ful of his native land is ever ready to be traitor to that of his adoption." My friend, (for Ihave long since learned to call himl such) remained with me for four days. He intended staying but one, but the morning after his arrival a snow storm, which lasted three days, came to my assistance, and in this short time we became intimate friends. The evening after his arrival, as we sat around the fire. he remarked the children telegraphing to each other, and then the youngest sent on a whispering deputation to me "Ah, some mystery here;" said Mr.  'I insist on being brought into the baby house. Tell me children, whal papa is shaking his head and saying, 'no, no,' at " "The fact is," I replied, ; I am in the habit of telling the children stories during the winter evenings; but I have claimed! immunity for the short time you will be with us. "It is a very pleasant way of passing the evenings, he replied. "But what say you my little fellow, (jumping the deputy on his knee,) to my taking papa's place, for the evening?"   ' THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. There was a general clapping of hands at this proposi- tion, and the children all gathered around him; he gave them a pleasant smile, and then looked at my wife and my- self; I believe we seemed just as well pleased and as anx- ious as the children. "I will tell you," he said, 'some incidents of my life which may interest you," and he forthwith commenced. During the three subsequent evenings he remained, one or other of us drew him into speaking of himself, and his past life, by' putting some question to him in reference to that which he had already told, and when he was about to take his departure, I said to him,- "You have seen what gluttons my children are for stories." "Yes," he replied, " they seem to have inherited the taste from their father." "Well," continued I, " when you are gone, my time comes  on again. Now, I have traveled so often to Bagdad that I tire of the journey; 'open sesame,' has lost its potent charm, my giants are on their last legs, and my fairies have be- come dull and common place. This being so, I will con- fess to you that I have, at leisure moments during the day, dotted down that which you told to us the night before, trusting that it would do me good- service for many a day.". "Well," he replied, " what is there to confess in that?" "I was so pleased, I answered, " with the matter, and my own manner of cooking it, I have been thinking of revising it some day, and perhaps getting it into print, if I had your permission to do so."' "What!" he exclaimed, " make a hero of me; no, no-there is none of that stuff about me ; don't think of such a thing my dear fellow." I suppose' he noticed that I looked a little crestfallen at this, for he immediately added: "But do you really think you could make such common- place stuff readable?." "I do." "And that it would serve you?" "It might/' "Then go ahead, old boy," he said gaily, and I will assist you all I can. From time to time I have kept a journal,   10       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. this, with some family papers, letters, &c., &c., I will send to you."7 Two months after the above conversation: I received the papers alluded to. This, reader, is the parentage of the "Dalys, of Dalystown." I have availed myself of the privilege of an author so far as to arrange, as best I could, in a manner suited for publi: cation, the materials left at my disposal; how far I have succeeded, whether well or ill, is for others to say, but, whatever their verdict may be, I have been, to a certain extent, already repaid for my labor, for while dwelling on the past I have been won into forgetfulness of the present. CHAPTER II. A WELCOME HOME, A GENTLEMAN OF THE OLD SCHOOL. Somewhere. about forty years ago, when old gentlemen had faint recollections of their grandfathers wearing swords, hlnd fast young gentlemen sneered at the " old square-toes" for doing so ; before steam had puffed out all recollection of those barbarous days, when a gentleman's honor was deemed of more value than his bond, and some few years be-fore the laying dow'n of the electric telegraph, or the raising up of 18, B, * on a fine evening in the month of August, 18-, the "'Tallyho" day coach, running be- tween Dublin and L   , was seen passing through the principal entrance of Dalystown, a fine old place, situate and being, (as my friends of the legal profession would say,) in the county of Galway, and bordering the counties ofl Mayo and Roscormmon. City police.    ?        -  THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. This invasion of private property, on the part of the Tal- lyho, was accounted for by the coachman, who informed one of his passengers that by getting in at this gate, driv- ing right through the demesne, and coming out on the opposite side, they avoided the half circle which the pub- lic road made, and shortened the distance fully a mile. It was much pleasanter too, to bowl along the smooth grav- elled avenue, than to travel the hilly, rutty road. So he was very glad to avail himself of the privilege of passing through the demesne, kindly given to him by the owner. As the coach came in view of the house, an elderly gen- tleman and a ydiong girl were seen standing at the hall door, anxiously watching its approach, while a number of domestics and laborers were grouped around the entrance to the stables and farm yard, evincing, by their eager looks, that the approach of the Tallyho was watched, on this eve- ning, with unusual interest. Suddenly a man, dressed in an old, faded hunting coat, tattered corduroys, his feet and legs free from the innova. tions of shoes and stockings, jumped up from the grass on which he had been lying, and as the coach came within a few yards of him, he cast a keen look up at its roof, then flinging an old hunting cap high in the air, he shouted, as he headed the coach, "Yoicks, Tallyho! here he comes, master, Mr. Henry himself, there's his handsome face, be. hind Joe. Yoicks, Tallyho." Presently the coach stopped in front of the house, at a distance of about forty yards, the intervening space being occupied by a round grass plot, encircled by a carriage drive. A young gentleman, who had been sitting behind the coachman, arose, and after shaking hands with one or two of his fellow passengers, lightly clambered down to the ground. The old gentleman and young girl advanced; but the step of age was all too slow for her impatience, so withdrawing her hand from the old man's arm, she ran for- ward and flung her arms around the neck of the traveler, "Welcome, welcome home, dear Henry," she said, " a thous- and welcomes, dear brother." Thank you, Emily," he re- plied, kissing her sweet lips again and again. ' How are you love, and how is my father? What, you won't let me   12      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. go to him, now then," and lifting her up, he ran forward with the blushing, laughing girl; then 'placing her- lightly on her feet, he flung himself into the old man's arms, say- ing " at home again, dear father! "Bless you, my boy," exclaimed the old man, "welcome, welcome back to us Henry, the sun did not shine as of old, while you were away. Let me look at you, (holding him at arm's length,) I think, Emily, the fellow has actually grown; ah, miss pussy, you have been at your old tricks, try- ing to keep him all to yourself. I'll punish you for the slip you gave me, I will indeed. Come along, Henry, into the house." And taking his son's arm, while the young girl took possession of her brother's disengaged hand, father, son and daughter advanced to the house, pausing at every step to say some endearing word, or to exchange loving, joyous looks. The sun, just then setting, threw a mellow rich light over the surrounding landscape, and, reflected on the many win- dows, made the house appear to be brilliantly illuminated, while those whom I have noticed as standing at the en- trance to the yard, now crowded to the hall door, for the purpose of giving their young master a homely welcome, ere he entered the house; a proceeding that had been al- ready gone through by the gentleman in the red coat, and a couple of old hounds, seemingly, to their full satisfaction; for, as the former skipped about, with wonderful agility, the old dogs endeavored to keep up with him, now and then stopping to scent the ground, to raise their heads, and to give forth their sweet melody of tongue, which was an- swered from the yard by a host of dogs, in every key, from the shrill treble of the terrier to the deep bass of the watch dog. All and everything around spoke a right joyous welcome home. Even the coachman of the Tallyho seemed touched by the poetry of the scene, for not until the',guard,who had been busy handing down the baggage, called out three times, i' all right, Joe," did he prepare to resume his journey; even then, as the coach moved off, hle turned his head to- wards the house more than once, and when a bend in the avenue hid it from view, he said to the traveler who occu-  THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. pied the box seat with him, you seen nice views to-day, Mr. Reynolds, between this and Dublin, but, I hold you now, none of them did you so much good as the sight we're just after leaving behind us." -"You are right, Joe," said the gentleman addressed "That's a fine young fellow who has just left 'us, and I do not wonder at the joy his return home seems to give." '1 Seems, Mr. Reynolds," replied Joe, ," Oh! faith there was no seems about it, it was real, downright joy; warm- ing the old man's blood, laughing in the dimples of the young lady's sweet face, jumping in the heart of the poor half natural you saw in the red coat. By dad, the dogs aself told one that a kind heart had come back to them." "By Jove, Joe," laughed Mr. Reynolds, , you are quite poetical." "He speaks irom his heart, sir," said another of the coach passengers, who seemed to have been an interested observer of the little scene they had just witnessed. "'And when that is touched your countrymen, I find, are generally poet- ical." "True, sir," replied Reynolds. Then he added, as he slightly bent his head," I believe, Sir, you are a stranger in these parts; at least, I do not remember to have seen you before in this, our kingdom of Connaught, and they say that John Reynolds, your humble servant, knows every one worth knowing this side of the Shannon." The gentleman smiled good humoredly at this, not very happy address, as he replied, "Then, Sir, I am glad to be able to say, that I am a stranger, as it saves me from being obliged to rank among those unfortunates -who are not worth knowing," "Oh, Sir,"7 replied the other, a little confused , what I mean is, that all those whose position in society makes them conspicuous in our provinces are familiar to the eyes of one who has spent his life amongst them. Your appearance tells me that you belong, in rank at least, to the class I al- lude to." "Well said, Mr. Reynolds," exclaimed Joe, "faith you circumvented the mistake you made, well. The best horse will slip as well as the worst; the differ is, that the good one will have a leg to spare, to save himself."    "      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWTN. Both gentlemen laughed at Joe's simile, for the coach- man of by-gone days was a privileged person, and, like hs brother sovereigns, on his throne, with the reins of power in one hand and the lash in the other, could not be supposed to do wrong. Well, the poor coachman is gone, when will the kings follow?  By this time the coach had left the demesne and entered upon the public road, when he who had announced himself as a stranger remarked: "I have been on this road before, coachman, but do not remember having passed through the demesne we have just left behind.'" "Yes, sir,7 answered Joe, I thought I remembered your face, wasn't it coming onh the assizes I had you down with me?" "I believe it was." "So I thought Y  Here Joe looked at his passenger and then at a small baize bag that lay at his feet, while a puz- zled look caine to his face. "Well surely," said the passenger, "we did not pass t;!lrough this demesne." "No, sir. Miss Daly was sick at the time, I remember, and we went round the road. Many's the curse Joe Lowry and his coach would get if lie disturbed her! You're com- ing down a long time before the assizes this year, Sir. Y'up, my darlings. Ah! Tom, you rogue, at your old tricks." And here I may inform the uninitiated that Joe, like most of his class, was in the habit of giving to his horses the names of those from whom they had been purchased. "I am not going to the assizes, nor was I at the time I traveled last with you," replied the gentleman. "I sup- pose," addressing Mr. Reynolds, " you are acquainted with Oonnemara, your Irish highlands?" "With every grouse mountain, trout stream, and pretty girl, in it," replied Mr. Reynolds. "Ah, well I was there last year for a short time. I was stopping with mny friend Mr. Martin, of Ballinahinch, but I made not war on bird or fish or pretty girl. I have some- what a taste for botany, and I met in Connemara with some   r          THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. rare plants that I had not seen before, at least, to notice them, so I am now returning to make a more minute in- vestigation of them, and to compare them with others I gathered in the highlands of Scotland." And he touched the bag that lay at his feet. SAnd it's nothing but bits of weeds you have in that bag Sir? said Joe. "Nothing, my friend, but what you would very likely call weeds, but which, nevertheless, cost me some money and trouble; nor would I part waith them for ten times the amount they cost me.') "Faith then, sir," said Joe, Ihave to ask your pardon. (Bad luck to you, Lyons, maybe that will make you keep out from the pole, you're like the man that bred you, always trying to lean on your betters.) May I never sill, Sir, but I thought you were an attorney, you see, Sir, of the bag, an ' your traveling the assizes' time; but it wouldn't fit in my head after all; for just as the bag was getting it in, your laugh or your smile, or, above all, the clear look you give a body, would knock it out again. But here we are gentle- Men, and you can get down to shake your legs, if you like, while we are changing horses. Anything new, Lanty? '" This was addressed to the hostler, who had brought out the fresh horses. '"Not a ha'oorth, Mr. Lowry, but a new collar, that the agent sent down, as he was afraid that Lyons was getting a tinder breast." "Faith, Lanty, that's more than his old master, the Attor-! ney, ever had. Ha! fha! hla! Eh, Lanty, I had you there." "You had so, Mr. Lowry, though sure Attorney Lyons aself is worthy of a new collar, af it was a hemp one. Ha! ha! ha!"' "By dad, Lallty, you're too many for me, I'll let you alone after that. Now then all right, blow your horn, John, for the two gentlemen that were here in front."1 "'They've run on, Joe," replied the guard; we'll pick then up, all right." "Lanty," said Joe, " do you see that green bag under the "Aye do I, wh-at about it '?"    1a      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Do you know what's in it 2" asked Joe. "Not a know, for what should I?" "Well, Lanty, nothing at all, but little weeds and grass, and one of them that's run on told me that he gave his hat full of money for the same." "Oh! by dad, that beats cockfighting," said Lanty,." ir- rah, Mr. Lowry, may be you'd be after axing him to buy my mother's stack of hay, and lave the old woman rowling in her carriage for the rest of her life, ha! ha! ha!" Off with you, you play boy," replied Joe, making a pre- tended blow with his whip at Lanty. "Off with you, or Miss Blake there will be after making her heels acquainted with Lyon's tender breast. Ye'up. my darlings," and away rolled the Tallyho, at the then rapid rate of five miles an hour. CHAPTER III. A GENTLEMAN OF THE OLD SCHOOL. Godfrey Daly, whose meeting with his son, the reader has just witnessed, was, at the time I write of, about sixty- "ve years of age, but his appearance might have led one to suppose that he was some years older. He was, in fact, a fine specimen of that class, now termed the gentle- . men of the old school. Remarkably tall in his youth, his form was now slightly bent, his hair white as snow, and, combed back, displayed a forehead highly intellectual, but crossed with deep lines. At the corners and under his eyes, and at each side of his mouth too, there were these   furrows of care, giving to his face an old and haggard look; but time, which had dealt so hardly with his other features, had left his eyes undimmed; full, clear, and blue. When he became animated or excited, they were lighted up with the fire of youth itself, but in repose, there was a deep shade of melancholy in them which told one, that care or thought, or perhaps both, had lent their aid to years. A Catholic, of ancient family, one of those English fami- lies who, coming to Ireland at an early period, became "more Irish than the Irish themselves," on his return from the conitinent, (in his eighteenth year) where he had gone to complete his education, he found himself debarred, on account of his religion, from almost all the privileges of his class. This, at first, chafed his high spirit, but naturally of a sanguine, easy disposition, he soon became reconciled to that which he saw others, similarly situated, bear with too much indifference. Thus, eloquence, which would have adorned a senate, was wasted (I beg your pardon, young lady,) in toasting some race belle; while energies and a daring spirit, that might have wlon for their possessor, in another country, a marshal's baton, had now no higher ob- ject than, perchance, some daring feat of horsemanship. Wild, brave, generous, extravagant and hospitable, there was a chivalry in his nature; a lofty ideal standard of that which should constitute a gentleman, which made him scorn all that was mean or ignoble. He was an admirable rider and keen sportsman, without acquiring the slang of the stable; a convivial companion, free from the vices and vulgarity of the drunkard or the bully. He had passed the age of forty and was yet unmarried when an event hap- penied which materially affected his future life. This was the death of an earlyfriend, Gerald Dillon. They had been as brothers, in their youth, but Dillon, having become deeply implicated in some of those many plots that tyran- ny and injustice had invoked, was denounced to the gov-  erminent, and in consequence, had to fly to France. Whether it was, that communication was difficult at the time, or, that he feared corresponding with his friends might bring the latter into trouble,-whatever the cause might     18       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. be-certain it is, thlat on reaching France, Dillon abstained from all comnmunication with his friend. Many were the anxious inquiries macle by Godfrey Daly, relative to him, during the first year of their separation. He heard that Dillon had entlered the French army; then that he had married; but a3 the bark of life drifts farther down the stream, memory often becomes neglectful of the clear ones she has parted clwith on the shore. Pray Sir, or lMadam, how many hleave you forgotten that you tenderly loved once? As years stole on, fewer became Godfrey Daly7s inquiries after the fate of his friend, more vague the information which hle received, until, at lengthi, hle had al- most ceased to think of him at all. One morning, as he mnounted his horse with the inten- tion of going to a fox hunt, a letter, with a foreign postmark, was put into his hand. He opened it, loolked at the signa- ture, and the name, Geralcl Dillon, met his eye. With a gush of old feelings rushing to his heart, lhe dismounted, returned into the house and read the letter. His old friend had written it on his death-bed. It in- fonrmed Godfrey Daly that the writer had been wounded in a duel, there was no hope of his recovery, and that he was leaving his motherless child (a girl of sixteen,) entirely unprovided for. As he thought in agony of hei unprotect- ed, helpless state, left in a profligate city, without one friend, the remnembrance of their early friendship calme to him.  I will not believe, Godfrevy,' lie wrote, c4 that the world has cihanged you. No, I thank my Gold thllat I have thought of you in- my extremity, and( die, conftiding -to you the welfare and honor of my darling clhild.7 This letter came with another from the person with whomn Miss Dillon was staying in 'Paris, whcll stateld Ithcat Lieu- tenant Dillon had diedl shortly after writing the letter now forwarded." Godfrey Dillon did not hesitate in accepting the trust col-fided to hin. He hastened to Palris, saw Annie Dillon, who had been prepared by her father to place fuill confi- dence in his friend, and proposed to her that sl-le would at once return with hl to Irelanld. The poor girl, overwhelmied with grief, was glad to cling,   Jj      - THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      9 to one who had been her father's friend, and she had been taught to love the land from wich he was anll exile. So she willingly accompanied her protector, on his return home. On their arrival in Dublin, Miss Dillon was placed under the protection of a female relative ofher guardian's. Many were the sly jokes indulged in by the friends df the hand- some bachelor relative to his young ward, but these were timely checked by Godfrey Daly's knocking down a gentle- man whom he thought too free in his friendly bantering. A duel of course followed, and Daly hit his man in the leg. Tom," said a friend who chanced to 'meet Daly's oppo- nent a few months afterwards Iimping on crutches. "TVn, old fellow, how are you, I have not seen you since that little affair with Daly, how did you get out of it?'" "Badly enough, Jack," replied Tom, " don't you see I put my foot in it? By Jove Daly was' determed, at all events, that I should not dance at his wedding." "His wedding," said the other. "You did not hear, then," said Tom, "that he is going to be married to that little French girl he brought overwith'him x Well, though he'has spoiled my dancing, I expect he will ask me to the wedding. for you see I was a great means in getting him a pretty wife." "You! how so?"' "Jack, my--dear fellow," replied his friend, "you were al- ways thick about the pate. Don't you know ff you want a woman to fall in love with you, your best plan is to fight about her?  If you hit the poor devil that stands the intro- duction, why all the better. Indeed, I have not the slight- est 'll feeling against Daly ancd ill drink his health in a, bumper if he invites nle. I often think how thankful I should be to God for leaving me my trigger finger. What would I  do if it was that and not-smy foot whichh I lost?' Whllether Tom Mahon was right or not in his conjecture, that his duel withl Daly was a means in bringing about the marriage of the latter with his ward, he was certainly right in the fact itself, for in  six months after her arrival in Ire- land she became the wife of Godfiey Daly. Well and truly did he fiffill, the sacred trustconfided to    o0      THE DALYS OE DALYSTOWN. him by his dead friend. Tenderly did he guard the young stranger whom he had taken to his manly breast. Hope- fully did he look forward to the years yet left to him to love and be beloved. 'Vain hope! But five years had elapsed since his mar- riage when he laid his gentle wife in her early grave. Then did the lightning of great grief flash upon his soul, bending that stalwart forn, furrowing that noble brow, and wither- ing those bright flowers her sweet presence had nurtured round his heart; yet she left him not alone in the world that now seemed so bleak and cold. Her children were still left to him, and when the first keen agony of grief had subsided, how eagerly did he gather to his heart those links between him and his buried love. The love which Godfrey Daly lavished on his children in their infancy, was well repaid by them in after years. At the time this story opens, his son, Henry, was in his twenty first year, his daughter Emily seventeen. Both bore a strong resemblance to their father, but with Emily, the proud patrician features of the race was softened into win- ning loveliness. She was small in person, and herein re- sembled her mother; but look upon her, and you would be apt to fix her hleight as the standard of womanly perfection, and would not, for worlds, have her one bit taller. Her eyes were dark blue, her hair light brown, which she wore in a plain Madonna braid, (a style very unusual at the tine,) and surely those white teeth and pouting lips would have grown proud of their beauty, but that two roguish dimples laughed them into humility. Mr. Daly's property did not come to him unincumbered, nor was his that thrifty nature likely to redeem the extrav- amance of his ancestors. On the contrary, he had, previous to his marriage, added to the debtshe founduponit. After this event there was, indeed, a great improvement in his mole of life, and in his establishment. He no longer kept lace horses or lost money on the turf. His house was no longer the refuge of a certain description of locust, then in being, namely, younger sons of country squires, who gener- ally spent, '"like gentlemen," .their portions within six months after receiving them, and ever afterwards felt re- lieved from the burthen and bother of calculation.   A true knight (if we are to believe old legends,) requir- ed nothing but his horse and armor, to go forth fully equip- ed in search of little adventures, such as routing a few thousand armed men, storming castles, rescuing distressed damsels confined- therein, and the like. So your true squireen required nothing but his nag, a pair of top boots, leather breeches-mayhap his father's-and which, very likely, he became possessed of the same day as that on which he received the maternal blessing and the paternal curse, with a positive injunction never again to enter the ancestral mansion-all four. (I mean blessing, curse, in* junction and breeches,) sitting on him with great ease; and he went forth fully prepared to spend the remainder of his life, living on those who knew that his grandfather was a gentleman. Shakspeare says, "what's in a name?" Our squireen never heard of Shakspeare; if he had, he would have pro- nounced him a d-d ass for so saying. "What's in a name?" Every thing, Master Shakespeare. It was food, raiment and -lodging to the squireen. It entitled him to turn up his nose at a Rothschild, horsewhip a duke, and swear by "G-- and his honor." Peculiarly educated, his notions of things in general, I fear, would not suit this cotton age. Merch- ants he looked upon as pedlers on a large scale; but he had a much greater respect for their less wealthy brethren who, pack on back, were in the habit of calling at his fath- er's house. The latter could steal a hound, worm a dog, tell a good story, sing a good song; aye, and they knew the best coverts in the country; but those city chaps, d-n them, they did not know whether a horse's tail should be behind or before. A tailor he looked upon as a miserable animal, created for the purpose of making clothes for gen- tlemen, and allowed, afterwards-for some unaccountable reason-to annoy them for payment. Then, as to literature: Poets he was rather mystified about. He had a vagvu no- tion that they might be tailors run mad. He had heard that they were always complaining and lamenting-so were tailors; if so they were useless, and there was no use both- ering one's head about them. Bailiffs, attorneys, and sub. sheriffs, all these come under the same classificat..on-car.    22      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. niverous animals, feedingy on the human race; the destruc- tion of one or more of them, under any circumstances, and at all times, being the most meritorious action a man could perform while on earth. Gentle be thy sleep, squireen of old! In these degener- ate days thy brother measures tape, or plies a pen in thy enemy's offlice. Let not such thin gs disturb thee. Calmn be thy sleep, and if I have dealt hardly by thee in this sketch, I do repent me. Truly yon drank hard after dinner, among your own class, but you did not tipple with loafers in bar rooms during the day, Your morals were not good, yet you used no slang in woman's presence, nor did yout pluff your segar in her face. You would shoot your friend, but not allow him to be slandered in your presence. You were not prudent, but very brave, and through the bad soil of a bad education, there ran the red blood of a true knight. About two months after Godfrey Daly's marriage one of those gentry called upon him, and actually spent two days at Dalystown. His host's time being almost'entirely taken up in planning improvements, or returning bridal visits with his young wife, our friend was left to employ his time as best he might, after receiving a hearty welcome from Mr. Daly. Alas! how changed was every thing around him; how different from that time twelve months. Yes, exactly that time twelve months he was at Dalystown. "By Jove! what glorious fun they had." To be sure, Daly ,Msed to retire eairly, but he didn't keep the key of the cellar under his pillow. He remembered having won one night fifty pounds from two Dublin spoonies, and was very near horsewhipping one of them the next morning for expressing regret at the circumstance. Then they had races once a week in the race park. Fini- gan, the steward, had told him, (with a grin on his d-n old mug,) "that his master was going to divide it into sheep paddocks." What profanation. Thus musing, he strolled about to try and find something to amuse him. But, "Othel- lo's occupation was gone." Co, after going to bed two nights ridiculously sober, he announced his departure on   [   23   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.   the third morning after his arrival. "- Surely," said Daly, At you are not tired of us so soon, and I have not, as yet, shown you where my new entrance is to be." "No, no, my dear fellowM," he replied, "I am not tired of you at all; and by  Daly, it gives me sincere pleasure to see yotu so happy; your wife is a lovely little lady, and if any married man can be happy you should; but I may, "as well make a clean breast of it--my constitution never Would be able to stand the regular hours you now keep." But, however anxious Godfrey Daly might have been, at this period, to retrench, there was much to militate against Insi doing so successfully. The universal hospitality of his class, and the difficulty of knowing where or how to begin. If, for years, we accustom ourselves to luxuries and super- fluities, we at length come to look upon them as necessaries. He was a good landlord, that is, let his lands cheap, and was never known to dispossess a poor man. But his very goodness of heart caused him often to injure himself, and those under him; for, by alloqTing them to sublet their lands or divide them with their children, as they grew up, hs estate got crowded with a class of tenantry whose small arms would be unable to support them in any comfort, even if they held them in fee. Consequently, though the time for paying heavy interest came regularly round, the rents that should meet it were seldom forthcoming. To remedy this, the usurer and bill discounter, were applied to, and the result was, that Godfrey Daly was a deeply embar- rassed gentleman.     24      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER IV. A FAMLY BREAKFAST--A LETTE'l'l-A WOULD DE GENTLEMAN-- DEATH. "Well, Henry," said Mr. Daly to his son, as the latter entered the breakfast parlor, on the morning after his arri- val home, "I am glad to see your city life has not made you a stay-abed. I saw you this morning, from my bedroom window, at an early hour, crossing the park." "4Yes," answered his son. "Six months absence from home has appeared to me an age, so I got up early to have a look at the old place. How beautiful and fresh the coun. try looks, to one who has been shut up in a city for any time." For the same reason, perhaps," replied Mr. Daly, "that to enjoy prosperity, it is said one must have tasted of ad- versity. 'Fore George, if that be the case, Ireland will be well fitted to enjoy it, should her day ever come. "I was pained, Sir," said Henry," to find by your letters, that this part of the country was beginning to be disturbed." "Oh, awfully so. A morning seldom passes without our hearing of some outrage, committed during the previous night. As yet, no very serious ones have occurred, but sooner or later, such a state of things must end in blood- shed." "And what think you is the present cause?" asked Henry. "Cause enough, Henry," answered his father. "Oppres- sion and injustice on one side; suffering, discontent, and folly, on the other. Such a state of society is like a well plowed field, ready for the seed; nor is there found want- ing the devil's husbandman to put it in. One or two ruf- fians appear in a district; no one knows where they came   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      25 from, or where tho to some think that they are hired, in the pay of those whose interest it is to keep the country disturbed. Whether this is true or false, I cannot say. Well, these fellows mysteriously hint to the people that there is a great movement on foot to achieve freedom for Ireland. You know what a charm that word freedom has, for the Irish peasant's heart. By it, many of them are in.- duced to beceme members of secret societies; they get pass words and signs, nothing more, for they are told by the villains who ensnare them, that at present, they are not authorized to disclose more; but, that the dupes may rest assured, the first men of the country are at the head of the movement. Presently, Rockite noticesg as they are called, appear, posted up during the night. Some of these direct ! you to to turn out of your employment certain individuals; others warn the people not to work for Mr. so and so; the houses of the gentry are visited by night and their arms demanded." - This would lead one to suppose," said Henry, " that the people expected a general uprising.' "At first," replied his father, "but after a little, the whole thing degenerates into senseless lawlesness, and those who have been led,from such an idea, to join these secret soci- eties, find out, when too late, that they have become the dupes of designing knaves. "Why then" said Henry, "not at once withdraw from such a business?" "It is much easier," replied Mr. Daly, " to jump into deep water, than to get out of it, if one does not know how to swim. There is no district that has not a certain number of idle vagabonds; these are they who keep this lawless business alive. All the others are in their power, and afraid to withdraw; for this reason, two policemen would put to flight a thousand of those midnight legislators, for nine out of every ten are there against their will. Indeed, I believe the greater number of them are forced to join these secret societies. They are called out of their beds at night, placed upon their knees, and threatened with instant death unless they become members. The unfortunate man thus cornm. pelled to join, lives in a nightmare of terror; his actions    26       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. are no longer his own, and he becomes a passive victim in the hands of scoundrels." c' Why not inform .against them?" said 'Henry. ' There are many reasons to prevent his doing so," replied Mr. Daly, " one is the horror an Irish peasant has of being looked upon as an informner, which is quite enough in itself to deter him from takling such a step. Oh! a heavy sin rests upon those whose injustice and oppression have so far debased a noble, intellectual, warm-hearted people, that, as in the present instance, their best friends stand aside, !.shamed, and utterly unable to befriend them. But here comes Emily; we must be very cautious, 1Henry, as to whllat we say on this subject, in her presence, for I half suspect she is a Piibbonman.' As Mr. Daly spoke, his daughter advanced and afrection- ately kissed him. "Good morning, Henry," she said, tu-,'- ing to her brother, "I am glad you heard what papa said, for if I am put upon my trial, you can prove that he is an unfit person to be on my jutry, having prejudged my case." "You could not give a more potent reason, my love, to some I know, to. prove me a fit and proper person to be on your jury," replied Mr. Daly. "But come, here's Henry, after a three hours7 walk, dying for his breakfast." "And I am most anxious to give it to him," said. Miss Daly, ' fIor I expect he will take a long ride with me after- wards." "I saw Medora out at grass this morning," said Henry. "Yes, but papa got the gray filly trained for me, and you and I are to have a race. Oh, Sir, you need not smile, but prepare for defeat. I assure you I long to have revenge for the many times your hunter, Fox, left my poor Medora behind, but you'll find how quickly Beeswing will take his pride down. I got Tom to give her regular gallops; to pre- pare her for the contest.", "Nay, that was scarcely fair, Emily, unless Fox* was like- wise put in trainin'g, a thing, I assiuie you, I would not m;chA approve of, if Toll was to act as trainer." "Perhaps you are right,7' replied Emily, laughing, "S but the poor fellow seemed so disconsolate in your absence, that I gave him as many offices as I could. However, as I   ;jj     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. neither went to fish or shoot, I fear I made but a poor sub- stitute for you." "Here he comes, fron the post office," said Mr. Daly looking out of the window, and pointing to a person ad- vancing up the avenue. He was the same that we have already noticed the previous evening, as dressed in a red coat and huniting cap. These were now replaced by all old shooting jacket, and straw hat, lthe former dress being nev- er worn by him unless during the hunting season, or on state occasions. The return home of his young master was one of these EHe advanced at a jog trot with the, mail-bag strapped by his side.           I In this enliglitened tae, when, in newspaper iparlance, thought flies along the electric wire, and Muggins--green ,rocer and sovereign-expects to hear, through the news- -papers, before going to church on' Sunday morning, what they think in Europe, of the new front he gave to his store the previous week, with the'American Eagle, like a dislocated scare-crow, crucified over his door, I almost fear to confess that I have beenkoften disposed to envy the an- chorite of old, for the simple, stupid reason, that he re- ceives no letters. It is indeed pleasant to get a letter from a true friend, if you are so lucky as to have one. Most unutterable joy is it to know that the brave, venturous son has crossed the sea in safety, and that he is toiling, with a stout heart, looking hopefulily forward to the time when he will be able-to make comfortable the old couple at homle, That letter, too, with its ominous black seal, contains pre- cious words of infinite value-words of hope and loVe ba- yond the grave. Open it, poor father, with a trembling hand. Ah thy sight runs upon the paper! Strain not thv hot eyes. Yet a little while you may not read it; but a time shall come when it shall spek to thee in thy childless, lonely sorrow, with an angel's voice. Thy brighit flower haS withered, and even while deathl was takin, her young life slte thought but of thee, of thee and heaven. SYweet, pure childl, , sh'e would be glad to go to her heavenly Yather, but she nweeps when thinking of you, and how lonnly you now will be." Then colle words ftil of hope and promise. Bear yet a  little, oh! grief-stricken old man, and you shall meet    28      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. your angel darling, never, never more to part. Oh! better, far better, that she should have gone before you, pure, than to have been left to gather the stains of earth. You cannot feel this now; but when the flowers she loved have faded and bloomed again, her parting words shall win you back to peace, and give you strength to say, i"Father, thy will be done." But with what vile companions have those gems of love and truth traveled. How surrounded by fulsome, insincere epistles. How jostled by lies and cold ingratitude. How crushed under the weight of bullying letters from those legal gentlemen, who charge three shillings and four pence for writing to a friend. When a man gets into debt, he may safely calculate on having an extensive correspondence from this latter quar- ter. Nor was Godfrey Daly's case an exception, so the very mention of the post seemed to damp the spirits of the little family circle. Both father and son had refrained since they met from speaking on business, each thought he was cheating the other into a few happy hours. But it was not so. While Henry amused his sister with city gossip, and their merry laughs seemed to come from hearts that were strangers to care, sad thoughts hovered around them. While the eyesof the fond father turned to them with loving pride, the dark spectre, care, arose and stood between him and his children. "I will go," said Mr. Daly, rising, " and see what the post bring us to-day." "You have not finished your tea, papa," said Emily. "Wait to do so, the servant will bring in the bag." "No love," he replied, "I shall not take any more, I feel the room somewhat warm," and he passed out. "Poor papa," said Emily, "I am sure he expects some unpleasant letters, and wishes to conceal them from us. You failed, dear Henry, in getting the loan you expected to raise?" "Yes, entirely so, nor did I ever know, Emily, the real state of my father's affairs until I went among those law- yers and attorneys. Through kindness, mistaken kindness, he kept me in ignorance of them, and here have I been   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.   29   spending money; money, Emily, by right not ours; for we stand on the very brink of ruin." "Oh!" said the young girl, speaking in a low, broken voice, " this is very sad indeed. I knew thatmyfather owed money, and found it impossible to collect his rents. I knew that he had heavy cares, although he endeavored to hide such cares from me. I knew all this for many a day, but I did not think, Henry, that-that "- Her voice failed her, and hiding her face in her handkerchief she wept. Emily, dear sister," said Henry, jumping up, and bend- ing over her, as he took her hand in his, " what a brute I have been thus to fret you; but I did not think you were such a coward. The disappointment in not getting this loan has worried and annoyed me, this time back, and when I  you alluded to-it now, I. felt fretted at having'brought no good news home with me, and spoke too strong, much too strong. All will be well, now that I know how we actually stand, I have little doubt but that I will be able to arrange matters. And you, Emily, you were to have been my con- fident, my law adviser, but I find I cannot trust you, you are too great a little coward.  "No Henry," replied his sister, " you shall not find me so. I suppose I am a little nervous to-day, and you know," she continued with a smile, we ladies are privileged to ibe so sometimes. Papa has not spoken to you on business since your arrival?" No, but I intend introducing the subject to-day." 'No, not to-day, Henry," she replied, laying her hand upon his arm. ' Nor yet to-morrow, nor for a few days unless papa speaks to you himself on the subject. He has been planning for the last fortnight how we Should amuse you on the first week of your arrival. You were to be made a regular stranger of, or rather I should say, an hon . ored guest-I was to bring you to 'The Grove' to visit-we were tio take such and such rides-he himself was to have a day's shooting with you on the bogs, and a hundred other little plans for your amusement, so we must not balk hiL." "Surely not," replied her brother, " a few days can make no difference. Would to God, I could think that while en- deavoring to make others happy, he felt so himself."    30       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. As Henry ceased speaking Mr. Daly entered the room, and while doing so crlumnpled an open letter into hi's pocklet, but his flushed cheek told the watchfiul, loving eyes that looked upon him, that its contents had pained him. How- ever, assuming a chenrful tone of voice, he said: "Emily, I hlave a letter for yrou, which I think you will be glad to re- ceive; so, pussy, pay the postage." He bent over her chair, laid lthe le ttr on the table, while she, bending back her head, kissed hm. "Well," he said, "I suppose I mnust be satisfied with such payment, thoough it is not exactly what Mr. John O'Roarke would call 'current coin of the realm.' Is not that letter from Rose?" "It is papa," said Emily. After a few moments silence, during which she read her letter, and Henry had walked to the window, the former said, "Poor, dear Rose, she is well and happy, she says) as happy as she can be, away from Dalystown. She sends you, papa, her benefactor, as she calls you, a thousand loves. She also sends her love to you, Henry, as she supposes you have returned home by this time." "I am truly glad to hear that she is well and happy," re. plied Mr. Daly. ' I never doubted her /aln heart, though I never could make out why she should go to Liverpool, to live with her aunt, whom she had never seen. I always wished her to consider this her home, and indeed, I looked upon her, I may say, as my own child, rather than one whom Providence had mnade, for a time, dependent on me." Thle moment it was mentioned from whom Emily had received the letter, Henry turned to the window. He now replied to his father's remarks, whle his face was still averted:  Perhaps, Sir, it was the consciousness of this dependency that made her desirous to go to one who was so near a relative." "Oh no," replied Mr. Daly, "I hlope that could not have been the reason. Indeed I was wrong to use the term ; for Rose was no dependent, as the word is understood. She knew we loved her, and would feel her loss; she saw ho , hard we found it to part with her; indeed no one cou (1 have felt the parting more painfully than she did herself, poor child, yet she would go; why, is a mystery to me. "   s-S ^THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.           31 Could Mr. Daly have known his son's thoughts, as the latter stood gazing out of the window, they might, per- chance, have thrown some light on this mystery. "By-the-by, Henry," continued Mr. Daly, '"I do not think you asked once about Rose since you came home." Emily raised her eyes to where her brother stood; 'his back was still turned toward them, and so intent was he at that moment, looking at something in the park, that he did not seem to have heard his father's last remark, so she aniswered for him. "' You forget, papa, that at the time of her going, I wrote to Henry all the particulars. He had nothing to ask that I had not already informed him of. (Oh!, woman, how ad- mirably you can manage to get a man out of a scrape, and intlo one too.) I will run up, Henry, and put on my habit while you go to order out the horses; that is, unless papa wishes to bring you to slaughter grouse." "No, not to-day," replied Mr. Daly, "I have some letters to write; so you and Henry had better go and test Tcp Gallaher's capability for training." Now, while Emily is putting on her riding habit, and Heiry has gone to order the horses to be saddled, I will take the opportunity to tell the reader who Rose O'Donnell was. I have no doubt bu that this true and simple story will be read by some fair ladye, who, very likely, would wish me to throw some romantic shadowing around the birth of this young girl. Nothing could be easier than to do so. I might place her in a shattered boat on the ocean; have her carried to the Irish shore, by a faithful Newfoundland doc, and a lkeness, taken at the time, togetler with a small trinket., set, of course, in costly diamnonds, found round the cild's neck, would eventually become the means of re- storing hler to her father, a French marquis. But truth com- pels me to acknowledge, that there was nothing remarka- ble or romantic in either the birth or parentage of Rose O'Donnell. She was the orphan daughter of a former stew- ard of Mr. Daly's. Both her parents had died when she was but four years old. Her father had been a faitlful, honest man, and on his death, Mr. Daly brought his child to Dalys-   l ! 82   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. town, intending that it should be her future home. He made her the companion of little Emily; they slept in the same room, played together, quarrelled, kissed and made up. When Emily was old enough to have a nursery governess, Rose was likewise instructed in the mysteries of reading and writing. In fact, Mr. Daly made no distinction be- tween the children, judging that at so early an age, it was not necessary to do so, and by the time his daughter was old enough to have an accomplished governess, Rose had become so dear to him, that he would not think of depriv- ing her of the advantages she would derive irom receiving instructions with Emily. Few in this country could think that an education which refined and expanded a young girl's mind, could lead to aught but happy results. Yet it had the effect of cloud- ing the otherwise happy, tranquil life of Rose. The more her intellect expanded and the more refined her ideas be- came, the more painfully she perceived the gulf, (which, to her seemed impassable,) between her and that society which education and nature had fitted her to adorn. In her simple nature, she believed that gentle birth was in itself a virtue, lacking which she should look upon herself as inferior to many whom she far excelled in education and in every noble attribute of our nature. As she advanced in years, and her strength of mind became fully developed, she might, indeed, have learned to think lightly of the chance advantage of birth, had not a circumstance arisen which brought it painfully before her. This was love. At the age of ten, Henry was sent by his father to school. His return home during vacation, was hailed with equal joy by Rose and Emily. At sixteen he went to Dublin to enter Trinity College. As he took his seat behind Joe Lowry, on the Tallyho, he debated with himself why Rose's parting kiss seemed so much sweeter than llhis sister's, and, after giving the subject mature consideration, he arrived at the very natural and happy conclusion, that hle was desper- ately in love with Rose O'Donnell, whllo was the most beau- tiful being the world ever saw. All which goes to prove that Henry Daly was a very precocious young gentleman, and one likely to distinguish himself iln College as a   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN science scholar, having already' elucidated, to his own per. feet satisfaction, cause and effect, in his schoolboy days too Rose missed Henry from their plays much more than Emily did. She was constantly  making mental calcula- tions of the number of months he was to be absent, and when these were divided by weeks and days the sum total was anything but satisfactory to the little maiden. I will refrain from inflicting on my readers a chapter on childhood's loves. Suffice it to say, that when Henry was twenty, and Rose-some three years younger, they loved'with that intense, freshd unselfish affection which belongs alone to first love. We may love again, but where, oh I where, is that fresh ecstatic joy, that blaze of dazzling light which met the young heart as it rushed forth to its beloved! And now did Rose perceive the barrier that Society had raised ie- tween her and Henry Daly. Hei indeed, would have broken it down and trampled upon it. What were the conven. tionalities of society to him? What cared he, how humble Rose!s birth might have been, he loved her! Loved her with all the ardor of his nature, with all the truthfulness of his soul. But, could she accept this love, knowing, as she did, how keenly alive Godfrey Daly was to the pride of had been the recipient of his generous kindness-he was to receive a blow that would crush him to the earth How often had she heard him declare, that he would deem it one of the greatest misfortunes that could befall him, to see his children -married to those beneath them in birth. And what was she? the orphan child of his servant; the creature of his bounty. No, she too, humble-born as she was' had pride; a noble and commendable pride. It should support her in the path which duty, honor and gratitude, marked Qut for her. She would battle, against this love-crush it, even should she crush her heart in the struggle. Having formed this resolve, she wrote to an aunt of her's residing in Liverpool, but whom she had never seen, asking her relative to precure for her a situation as governess in some respectable family. In due time she received an af. fectionate answer to her letter, in which her aunt invited   I 34     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. her to her house, to remain there until a suitable situation would offer; "unless," added the good lady, "I can induce you to remain with us altogether." Rose now but waited for Henry's absence from home to take her departure, and in about a month after receiving her aunt's letter he went to Dublin; she then, for the first time, confided to Emily the step she was about to take, and her reason for it, and as the girls wept in each other's arms, Emily had reluctantly to acknowledge that Rose was right. "My father," said the sobbing girl, "thinks so much of old families, prides too, so much in Henry! speaking, as you have often heard him, Rose, about his raising the fallen fortunes of our house, thatI fear, (pardon me, dear Rose,) it would break papa's heart did he know you loved one another." ' I know it, dear Emily," replied Rose. "But I, too, have pride'; and, I trust, better motives, gratitude and duty, to support me. And now, Emily, listen to me: Henry knows not, and must never know how much I love him; must never know that it is this love that drives me from Dalys- town. Promise me this." "But he will think you unkind, cold hearted, thus to leave us for strangers." "It is better, Emily," she replied, "that he should even think me all this, than to know how truly I love him. I know his warm, impulsive nature. Did he know the truth it would lead to those misfortunes I go to prevent. Emily, I am older than you, my position, too, so different from yours, has made me think more. Promise me, love, that Henry shall not know my motive for leaving Dalystown." "I promise you, Rose; but tell me, what reason shall I give him?"  K "Oh, tell him," replied the poor girl, as she attempted to smile-" that I got tired of a country life; that I longed for town and town lovers. Aly God!" she continued bitterly, "'It is hard, thus to vilify one's self to those we love. Yet I would not, Emily, it should be always thus. At some dis- tant day, when Henry-married to another-whom, I pray God, may love him as well as I do-in far off years, when my name, almost forgotten, cau renew no old memories in his   heart-then tell him my motive for thus dashing the cup of happiness from my lips." - It was thus the orphan girl went forth from the home that had so long sheltered her; and God's angels walked [ with her, to support her tottering steps. CHAPTER V. IN WHCH WE MEET WITH A PINE, WOULD-BE GENTLEMAN, AND WITH DEATH, When Henry left the parlor he found Tom Gallaher loit- ering about the hall door. Henry told him to go and get the horses saddled and brought round. They soon made their appearance, Henry's hunter, led by the groom, Tom, in all the pride of office following with Beeswing. "So ho, Beeswing I!" he said, "So ho, girl, musha but's yourself that's playful this morning. Look at her, Bill, isn't she a darlint? Oh! by my song, there's nothing like the blood in man or beast." "She's a nice daisy cutter enough, Tom," replied the groom, " but I'd like to know how long them spindle shanks of her's would keep her along side of Fox here across a stiff country?" "Who's talking about a stiff country?" replied Tom. Everything in its own place, Bill. By gorras, I believe if a body was to tell that Miss Emily, (God bless her,) was the beautifulest young lady you could meet with-which every one knows she is, without telling a tale-you'd up's and be for saying you'd like to see her trying her hand with Squire Warburton at a stiff bowl of punch."   I   3g      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "It's not my way, Tom," replied the groom, "to meddle with my betters, like some I know." "Like some you know," said Tom. ," That's me, I sup- pose, consumen to your impudence. It's no admiration, avick, that I should speak of the quality, seeing I was reared among them, egg and bird. So ho, Beeswing. By dad, Bill, you're frightening the mare with thatpurty squint your early edjication gave you." "How was that, Tom? said a stable boy present, as he winked at some laborers. How's that," replied Tom, "'musha, I thought the world knew how Bill got his squint," "Devil a know, tell it to us," called out two or three. "Well, you see, when he was a gorsoon,* he used to be going round to the stations with Father O'Leary, sarving mass and minding his pony; and when the priest would be hearing confessions, Bill would be sitting in the kitchen, one side of the fire, with his eyes turned lovingly to the spot thatwould be boiling upon it; and right knowledgable, faith, that same devarsion made him, in the way of vittels, until, in the long rnn, he'd tell you by the froth that'd be coming over the lid, what was in the pot for the priest's dinner, and he'd say, quite natural like: ' Mrs. Casey, ma'am, the leg of mutton is done to a turn;' or, tear an-ounds, widow Murphy, woman alive! the dacent bird in the pot is boiled to rags.' So you see, boys, the turn such employ- ment gave his eyes, stuck to them ever since." Tom's story elicited shouts of laughter, which lasted until Emily and Henry made their appearance. Mounting their horses they set off at a canter through the park. When outside the gate they reined in. "Well, said Henry, "I feel as if even that short canter did me good, I know not how people can be contented to live cooped up in cities." "Habit, I suppose," replied Emily, "does much in those matters, you remember your friend, Mr. O'Gorman, who came down with you from Dublin, and how he used to won- der what pleasure you could find risking your neck twice a week hunting a nasty red cur."   * A young lad.    "Yes,", said Henry, " and I suppose one of our city belles would hang herself in her garters if she was doomed, for three months, to lead the lonely life that you do. But who comes here?' This remark was caused by the appearance of a horseman approaching them at a rapid pace. "But," said Emily, " that riding in quick haste has some- what discomposed his usual graceful carriage, I should say that it was that beau ideal of all that is elegant, Mr. Timo- thy O'Roarke." "You are right, Emily," replied her brother, " it is Tim-- or, as his father disrespectfully calls him--Timmy. But has the man lost his senses that he comes powdering along at this John Gilpin paced When the advancing horseman recognized those whom he approached, he drew in rein a little, and as he now ad- vances at a more temperate pace, I will endeavor to de- scribe his appearance. He was about two and twenty; his face was very red, which might have been caused by hard riding. His hair and whiskers were very red like- wkise, a circumstance which could hardly have been the re- sult of equestrian exercise. He had light, straw-colored eye- sbrows, fishy eyes, and a coarse, sensual mouth. He wore a gtreen coat with gilt buttons, ornamented with foxes' heads, and a showy plaid waistcoat. A red scarf was fancifully tied round his short neck, with a pin, also a fox's head, stuck prominently in front. His hunting whip, which he carried in his hand, asserted that he was a gentleman, for round the top of the handle was a silver rim, on which was inscribed, "Timothy O'Roarke, Esq." But that which his whip asserted, his appearance, manner and whole nature denied. Such was Mr. Timothy O'Roarke, who when making an abortive attempt to raise his hat in the style he had seen young Lord Oranmore do, " hoped he saw Miss Daly well." "Mr. Daly," continued the young gentleman, "I rejoice to see you, you're welcome home, sir.' "Thank you, O'Roarke," replied Henry, " but what has * happened to make you go at such a break neck pace along the road '"   38      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Our house was attacked last night, Mr. Daly, by those d--n Ribbonmen,--I beg Miss Daly's pardon for swearing; but some of them got more than they expected, for my father and myself fired out of the lobby window at the scoundrels, and this morning we found marks of blood in front of the house, and down the avenue." "My God," exclaimed Henry. "Fact, sir, I assure you," continued Tim. ".'Pon honor I do not know what the country will come to, if gentlemen are to be attacked in this way, in their own houses. I was about calling on your father, to lodge information of this outrage, when I had the pleasure (glancing at Emily,) of meeting with you and Miss Daly." "You will find my father at home, sir," replied Henry, "pray let us not detain you." "No, no, all right," said Tim, "you see, though the guvner is a magistrate, we thought it better that another should act in this matter." "I do not understand you," said Henry-which Ifear was a little white lie. "Pray who may the governor be? "Dad, of course; I call him guvner." "I was not aware that your father was a magistrate." "Oh yes," replied Tim, "the Lord Lieutenant has ap- pointed him, and sent him, I assure you, a verycomplimelt- ary document, in which the King calls the guvner his well-beloved cousin." "Indeed," said Henry smiling, "I dare say you were not before aware of the relationship." It was foreign to Henry's nature to say anything hurtful to the feelings of another, but it must be confessed that just then he did not feel very amicably disposed towards Mr. Timothy O'Roarke, whom his last remark touched on the very tenderest point. "We detain you," added Henry, "from calling on my father; good morning." "Good morning," replied Tim, "good morning, Miss Daly." Again the hat was raised, but Henry's remark had so con- fused the King's relative, that he signally failed to raise it a la Oranmnore.  Then, as they passed out of hearing, hle exclaimed, " curse    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. your impudence and beggarly pride, I'd have you to know that your father owes my father. (he was natural now and forgot to call him guvner,) some thousands. Aye, and by G-, he can foreclose the mortgage whenever he pleases." i' The girl, too, she's as proud as Lucifer, but deuced pretty; how cold she looked ; I believe that's the way with them kind of cattle. 'Pon honor, I have half a mind to fall in love with her. I'll speak to the guvner about it; I think if he put the screw on the old fellow I could have her for the asking. Every girl wants to get married, and I don't see what objection this one could have to me." Here he drove his fingers through his red locks, and having by this time fully established himself in his own good opinion-quite an easy task-he proceeded on to Dalystown. "Hang that fellow,", said Henry, "his vulgar airs are unbearable. Those unfortunate, mad wretches too; some of them must have been wounded; perhaps killed, in their lawless, senseless attack on O'Roarke." "Perhaps," said Emily, "Mr. Tim O'Roarke has exag- gerated the matter, in order to set off his own valor." "No, no," replied her brother, " he spoke the truth. I saw triumphant malice in his white eyes, when he spoke of finding the marks of blood. Come in, Emily, we will get in here, have a canter across the fields and return by the lower road; I am anxious to get home." "I wish we had been a few minutes earlier," said Emily, "and we would have avoided meeting with that odious creature; his news has destroyed the pleasure of our ride." Half an hour's riding brought them out on the road Henry had spoken of, and they turned their horses' heads homeward, but they had not proceeded far, when, on com- ing to a turning, the wild wail of the Irish cry startled them. Of all sounds, this is the most wild- and sorrow-burdened. Familiarity cannot blunt its effect, and the stranger, who hears it for the first time, instinctively knows that death has struck one of its mighty, soundless blows, close to him. "Oh! Henry," exclaimed Emily, 4' the cry proceeds from widow Donelan's house; what can have happened to her? I did not hear that she was ill, and her son, Mike, was at Dalystown yesterday."'   40      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Something very dreadful and sudden has happened, I fear," replied Henry. "See how the women run in and out of the house. People are coming across the fields in all directions. As I live, there is a policeman standing at the door. May God help her if anything has occurred to her son. Stay you here, love, and I will ride on to make en- quiries." "Oh, no; I will go with you." "Very well; but you must not come down to the house." They quickly arrived at the by-lane leading to the house, and leaving his sister on the road, Henry galloped forward. Springing off his horse, he entered the house. As he did so, a number of men, crowded round the door, took off their hats and made room for him to pass, thereby giving him a full view of the interior. Right before him was a table on which lay extended the dead body of a young man. The grave clothes were turned down at the top, leaving the face, finely developed throat, and the upper part of the broad chest exposed to view. A sculptor would have taken that form as his model of manly strength and beauty, On the left side of the chest appeared a small wound, with a bluish rim, from which oozed a small quantity of blood.  On each side of the body sat six or seven women, one of whom was engaged, from time to time, in stanching the wound. At the head of the table sat another woman. Her head was bent down to the face of the corpse, her lips closely pressed against the cold, pale forehead. Neither cap or comb confined her grey hair, which, falling loosely down, lay scattered over the dead man's face and neck, contrast- ing strangely with his rich, brown curls. Her body rocked slowly from side to side, keeping time with her low moans. No need to tell that this woman was a mother, mourning over the dead body of her son. Henry Daly's face blanched, his lips quivered, and his limbs trembled as he gazed upon this scene. Michael Don- elan had been an humble companion of his, in many a fish- ing and shooting excursion. His joyous nature, and great   X 1TEE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN          i skill in all manly, rustic feats, had made him, from his boy- hood, a special favorite with Henry; and, strange as it may appear, many a funny story told, many a wild prank played, many a daring feat of skill and courage achieved by the dead man, crowded to Henry's memory, and were as viv- idly before him as the cold, marble face on which he gazed. His friendship for the young man was well known to those present, and his appearance was the signal for a fresh burst of lamentation.  After a few moments an old man got up. from where he had been sitting, and :advancing to Henry, touched him lightly on the arm. The latter started and turned round, "This is a sorrowful sight, Mr. Daly," said the man. "A sorrowful, dark sight." "In God's name, Marks," exclaimed Henry, grasping the other's arm, " how did this happen?. What has occurred?" "Come out in the open air; sir," replied the old man, as he glanced at two policemen present. ":Clear the door there, boys, for Mr. Daly to pass out. 'It came with too great a surprise for your tender heart. They ,shouldn't have let you in afore breaking it to you; come out, sir, the air will revive you.", So speaking, le led Henry out of the house, and some little distance from it.  "Here, sir," he continued, sit down upon this cart, my poor young gentleman, you look quite weak." Henry indeed felt weak and sick, and was glad to sit down.                   , "Did you hear, Mr. Henry," resumed the old man, '"that the boys were at ORoarkes last night? '.  "-I did-I did," replied Henry; "I met young O'Roarke, and he told me so, Oh I I see it all now,"' ,he exclaimed. "But surely, I thought that Mike was too well behaved- had too much respect for his character-loved his poor mother too well, to join himself with those night-walking vagabonds." "You: are right, there, sir," replied the other. "He was, in a manner, as much against their goings on as yourself could be. But what could he do, if them kem for him that would not be put off'? and I misdoubt but he was with them  H42     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. last night when O'Roarke's house was attacked. Anyhow, when his mother opened the door this morning, he )come- ly, handsome boy fell in upon the flure to her, cmd and stiff." "Oh!" cried Henry, " the cruel, heartless, cowardly sav- ages that left him there. I wonder his unfortunate mother did not fall dead at such a sight.", "It would be a great marcy if she did, sir," replied his informant. "' But you see when those who were with Mike saw that he was dead, I suppose they got afraid. They dursn't bring him into any house, for fear it might discover on some of themselves; and if they left him in the fields, the dogs or pigs might illuse the poor body, so they rolled straw ropes about it, and left it standing up against his own door," "It was a cruel, savage act," said Henry. "No doubt it was, sir, if them that did it bethought of themselves. But likely the fright they got when they'found that Mike was dead, confused them in a manner, that they did not think about what they were doing. But now listen to me, Mr. Henry, and mind what I tell you. I am an old man, sir, and remember the troubled times*-aye, and tuck my part in them. I saw as bad as this happen, and worse, by far. Now, sir, remember I tell you, so sure as you are forenint me, last night's business will not end until there is more blood spilt." "What do you mean.?" asked Henry. "You see, sir," replied the man, " that up to this the Ribbonmen, or Terryalts, did not go beyant posting up threatening notices, and taking guns from those they did not like to have them. Last night, Mr. Daly, was the first time that blood was spilt, but it will not be the last."' "I fear not, Marks," said Henry. "Blood will have blood, sir," continued the man, " and before winter is over O'Roarke will sup sorrow for last night's work."              . "Stop, old man," exclaimed Henry, "you should not say such things, nor should I listen to them. O'Roarke did nothing but what any other man in hisfplace would do." *The rebellion of '98.   "Oh, Mr, Daly," replied the man, "what I say to you, I would not say forenint others. Your father knows me, Mr. Henry, for many a year, and he knows, sir, I would put a stop to this business if I could." I believe you would, Marks, and I am sorry if I spoke cross to you." "Oh, Mr. Henry," replied the old man, you and yours are welcome -to say what you please and ask no pardon about it. You say true enough, O'Roarke did nothing last night but what any other might do in his place. But what is he doing all his life, sir; how did he make his mon. ey? How did he raise his head from the dirt, until he got to sit cheek by jowl with such a gentleman as your father, on the bench? I'll tell you, sir, by robbing, and crushing the poor; and God in his own good time will notice it. Her within there, is not the first whose cabin he made lonely. Aye, Mr. Daly, I would put a stop to this foolish night-walking if I could. I'd stop 'it for the sake of such as him as lies dead within there. I'd stop it, because I know of old the folly of such work, and the trouble it brings, sooner or later, on all that take part in it. But, Mr. Daly, (and the old man's cheek flushed,) if the Lord Lieutenant was to the fore, I'd tell him that I would not turn on my heel to save the puddle blood of the tyrant and persecutor O'Roarke."  "We are told by our religion," said Henry, "to forgive our enemies."  "I know it, sir," replied the old man, "God forgive me, I'm an old sinner to speak as I did; but, Mr. Henry, there's bitterness in my heart since I saw Mike Donelan stretched afore me, and the lone mother sitting at his head.", "I see policemen here, did any one send for them?" ask- ed Henry. "No, sir; they kern from themselves, when they heard what had happened; one of them is gone for the coroner. But is that Miss Daly, sir, coming down the: boreen* 2 "  "Yes," said Henry, jumping up, "I forgot altogether that I left her waiting for me. Emily, love, come no farther; a dreadful circumstance has happened!" * Lane.    "     t .THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN. ' I have heard it, Henry," replied his sister, whose tears were fast falling. "Could I not go in for a few moments, and try to speak some words of comfort to her?" "God alone, sister, can impart comfort to her; just now human consolation would sound as mockery to such grief as hers. But if you are not afraid to return home by your- felf, I would wish to remain until the coroner arrives." "Oh, do so, Henry'," replied his sister; " you may be of some use to those poor people. Stay, and I will tell my father why you have remained." When Henry Daly again entered the house he found that the widow had raised her head fronm the face of the dead. Her eyes were red and wild, but no tears flowed from them. He went :up to her and took her hand. As he did so, he felt that her whole frame shivered. "'Thats Mieky; sir," she said, in a slow, harsh voice, that jarred with thrilling distinctness on the listener's ear. "Micky, mar son, sir, him that's lying there-him that thought so much: of you, and would be saying, ever and alp ways, 'I wonder, mother, when will Mr. Henry Daly be back from Dublin;:' and see, now, you're on his own flure, and the never a welcome has he to give you." Henry's tears fell upon her hand;; she looked at him. "And you're crying too,'" she said, but never a tear can I cry, (putting her hands to her eyes,) and sure if it wasn't all a bad dream that's over me, the mother that bore him would cry more than any of you." Henry permeived that her mind wandered. "Madness," he murmured to himself,'$ would be a mercy now"' She heard him, though none of the others did. "Yes, sir," she said, "4;madness, that's just it, nothing but madness to say that Micky's dead. I'll tell you how it all come about; you see last night I thought some people kemrn here and called him out, and that he went over to the bed and kissed me, and told me not to be frightened and that he'd be back again in no time. "Do you know," said one of the policemen present, O who they were that called your son out?" She looked at the man fiercely. s None of your dirty work here," she said, "mav be it's an informer you'd be for making my son,' and she laughed hysterically.   THE DALYS OF DBALrYSTOWt,     I5 I Don't presume, sir," said Henry, " to ask any questions until the arrival of the coroner." 4 * Don't mind him avourneen1" she said or vex yourself with the likes of him, but where was I about the dream." While thus speaking she had kept her eyes fixed upon Henry's face with her back toward the corpse of her son. "Oh yes, I thought my boy kem and kissed mein the bed, as he ever and always does, and says: (Don't be frightened, mother, I must go with themn this once, and they'll never'ask me any more.' Aye, that was, it, and a bad dream it was, out and out, was'nt it sir?" She paused, looked wistfully into Henry's face, as if she expected him to corroborate her in, the cheat she was evi- dently endeavoring to palm upon herself, but he could not reply. After waiting a little she resumed, "well, sir, this morning"' As the last word escaped her lips, the sight that the morning had revealed, flashed upon her soul in all its horrid reality. She turned full round, gazed for one nioment on the face of the dead, and with a wild scream fell senseless on the body of her son. They raised her up. As they did so, a gush of blood issued from her mouth and nose and flowing over the dead man's face and chest trickled down on each side. Henry, unable longer to look upon this scene of horror, rushed from the house. *Dear.   "      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER VI. IN WHCH THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO AN "IRISH MDDLEMAN." On a dark and rainy evening, some days subsequent to the events recorded in the last chapter, Mr. John O'Roarke sat in his parlor at Lake View. The place had received its name from the fact of there being a dirty muddy pond at the end of the lawn, through which daily waddled Mr. O'Roarke's ducks and geese. All the requisites for making punch were on the table before him, and he seemed to have availed himself pretty freely of their presence, for his face wore a purple flush up to the very roots of his hair. He had a short black pipe in his mouth, but if one might judge from his knitted brow, and heavy eyes, it had failed to impart any soothing influence to him. He was a man about fifty years of age, of strong, bulky form, and coarse, vulgar features. His cold, small grey eyes had a cunning, cruel expression in general, but the punch had deadened the former, while it had increased the lat- ter to a murderous expression, in perfect harmony with the low forehead, over which his iron-grey hair hung thick and coarse. Had he been born in Venice, he might have been a midnight assassin; in London, a house breaker. As it was, born in Ireland, he was a tithe proctor, an under agent and a middleman, * Various, and beyond the belief of those unacquainted with the state of Irish society, at the time, were the opportunities which this man availed himself of to rob the peasantry in his district. In his capacity of tithe proctor, he seized upon the cattle for the parson's tithes, made a mock sale of them to one of his bailiffs, for one fourth or fifth of their value, and then -turned them in on * A tenant himself, having tenants under bim.   X! ,    THE'DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      4T one of his own farms, from which they were taken to some distant fair and re-sold, at so many hundred per cent. profit. As land agent, no tenant could approach him, unless armed with a bribe, which, very often, exceeded the yearly rent of the unfortunate man. As middleman, he took lands on which there were already tenants, and either ejected them from their holdings, or raised the rents, already too high, to rackrent prices. Half the fowls they raised'were his and their lands should go uncultivated until they had given him a certain amount of labor, for which they received no remuneration.       ,          ^  Oh! England, let your saints weep over slavery int'li South. Let their tears bedew their white, scented hand- kerchiefs, while some pious, sleek, well fed humbug, tells them, in Exeter Hall, of the sufferings of their black breth- ren;;" for, are they not our brothers?" exclaims the pious humbug; and see what it will avail you, when the nations stand before the throne of God. Maudlin hypocrites, I tell you that the black slave lives in an earthly paradise, com- pared to the lot of the Irish peasant, robbed, enslaved, lashed to madness, by such men as O'Roarke. I tell you, they are more hateful than your imaginary Legrees. "But," exclaims the pious humbug, "' these are social evils, caused by the benighted state of the Irish themselves; and have we not sent them missionaries and bibles . " Maudlin hypo- crites, you lie! This state of society, this battle between the oppressor and oppressed, has been spawned and nursed by your English laws. Go open your statute books,and mark how they teem with acts protecting those merciless Legrees in their spoliations, without one clause to shield their victims. Oh I saints, of Exeter Hall, you have been dumb about these things! Verily, on that day when the soul will stand naked before God and man, I would sooner be the publican, than the pharisee. From these various modes of "honest industry," (a favor- ite term with Mr. John O'Roarke,) our middleman became rich and prosperous. He held mortgages on several estates in his neighborhood, Godfrey Daly's, amongst others, to whom he had loaned five thousand pounds. The Lord Lieutenant of the county had also borrowed money, from   48      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWtN him, and it was on this gentleman's recommendation that he was lately appointed to the commission of the peace. The windows of the room in which O'Roarke now sat, were defended on the outside by thick iron bars, and as the windows themselves were very narrow and the ceiling very low, the room had, at all times, a very gloomy appearance. Ol this particular evening, it looked like a prison cell, and this likeness was heightened by the strong resemblance Mr. O'Roarke bore to a felon. Opposite to his father sat Mr. Timothy O'Roarke. His chair was turned a little from the table, thereby giving him an opportunity to admire himself, in a cracked pier glass, over the chimney mantle- piece. Various were the attitudes which the younger gentleman had assumed within the last half hour. At one time with his elbow resting on the table, he laid his head upon his hand and looked into the glass with a thoughtful, melan- choly expression of face. Then he folded his arms, drew himself up and looked sternly at himself. Then again, he stretched out ,his legs, threw his body back, and let his hand fall listlessly to his side. "My life upon it," exclaims some respectable old lady, "that young man has something heavy resting on his mind." i Not a bit of it, my dear, good lady; nothing, heavy or light, ever rested on Tim's mind. Anything hung up there : was sure to tumble down in a short time. But Tim was an imitative animal, and was now studying the different- po- sitions he had seen some of his numerous models sitting in,-Lord Oranmore, amongst others. At length he flung his arm carelessly over the back of his chair, let his body  and head slightly recline to one side, and yawned several i times. "Yes," he said aloud, "that's by far the best and  most aristocratic. r That will do." "What will do? What are you prating aboutP said his. father, starting from a reverie that seemed far from having been a pleasant one. "'Pon honor, dad-ahem--beg pardon, guvner-'pon hon- or, you quite frightened me, you spoke so loud and sudden- ly," replied Tim. "Curse your 'pon honor, and your airsf' was the parental   I         THE DALYS OF DALYST WN.      49 rejoinder. "I tell you what, Timmy, this is a d--n bad, ugly business." "What's a bad business, guvner?" asked Tim. "Why, this Donelan's death, to be sure, you numskull," replied his father. "Oh, yes; I had quite forgotten it, 'pon honor," said Tim. "His father gave him a look of anger and contempt. "Quite forgotten it," he replied, "you shallow-pated ass; I tell you what, my fine fellow, take care that you do not get cause one of these days, or nights, to remember it bet- ter. I suppose you forget, tob, that two of my best heifers go were hamstrung the night before last, and a threatening no- tice put upon the gate with, the figure of a coffin marked upon it. I have written to the Lord Lieutenant asking for the protection of the police; I will build a barrack for them within a stone's throw of the house." "Oh, I do wish," said Tim, "he .would send a troop of dragoons down here, the society of the officers would be so delightful." "Now may God help me," exclaimed his father, '"this is what comes of making a gentleman of my son. For this I have rob-ahem, I have toiled night and day at my honest industry, drawing down hatred and illwill upon myself, un- til the very dogs are taught to bark at me as I pass. But I'll return them hate for hate, and we'll see who will tire of the game first. Hand me over that decanter, sir, unless you think it beneath you to stretch your hand for such a plain man as myself." The suppressed passion of the father somewhat awed the son. "I did not intend to vex you, sir," said the latter, as he pushed the decanter over. "Well, I suppose you didn't" replied O'Roarke. "But let us understand one another, Tim. You may, if you like, put on those fine airs when you get among the young bloods of the country, though I'm thinking they don't fit on you very natural or easy; howsomever, that's your own lokout, and I'm a bad judge of such matters. But don't give me any of them; I had none of them myself when I was your   50      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. age, and I'm too old to learn or like them now. What's that?" *Nothing but the rain beating against the window," re- plied his son. "It's a blasted night," said O'Roarke; "stir up the fire, will you." "Were you not at Dalystown to-day, sir," asked Tim, as he put down some fresh turf on the fire. "I was; I wanted to see Daly about the meeting the magistrates are going to hold, on account of this late busi- ness. I hope they'll memorial the government to proclaim the county." "Did you see Mr. Daly, sir " "I did; and coldly enough he received me. I knew well what was working in his heart, though he dursn't let it out, for I have my hand upon his throat;" and his red fingers crookened to the shape of a vulture's claws, as if he actually was choking the poor gentleman in imagination. "The time for paying the mortgage," he continued, "will be round in a few months. If he pays the interest regular I'd as lief leave the money out. Your uncle Lyons wrote to f me that young Daly thought to raise the money in Dublin, i to pay me off; but Lyons got to speak to the party lending it, and told some story that made them draw back. I don't I want that he should be able to pay me that way, with a high hand." '"Did you see any others of the family?" asked Tim. "Young Daly come to the door, while I was speaking to his father," replied O'Roarke, " but turned on his heel when he saw me. They're a proud set, egg and bird." "You did not see Miss Daly?" asked Tim. "No, I didn't," replied his father, looking at him; " what are you driving at avick; may be it's your comehither you'd be for putting on her?" "She's a deuced pretty girl, guvner," replied Tim, pulling up his shirt collar. "Aye," replied his father, "and if you tell her so I'm thinking she'll tell you you have mistaken her for the house maid." It was now Tim's turn to be angry. "This is the way I'   Ji        THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. you always speak," he said; "what's the use of all your money if it can't get you any respect?" "And doesn't it," replied O'Roarke; " doesn't it make them bow and take me by the hand, that think it would be too good for me to clean their shoes; doesn't it give me power to crush them I hate? But there are some things avick, that money can't do. It can not get you the true- hearted respect and good will of people; but who cares for that? And it can't lower the pride of such people as the Dalys; you may break them, but you can't bend them. No, no, Timmy, Daly would sooner see himself a beggar, and his daughter laid in a coffin, than married to you." Both father and son now remained silent for some time. Tim was too crestfallen and sulky to make any reply, and the turn the conversation had taken, threw O'Roarke into another reverie. At length he said, seeminglymore to him- self, than to his son. "After all, people will do much to save themselves from ruin. A drowning man will ketch at a straw; and if the thing could be brought about, it would answer, well. It wouldn't be the first time, either, that good  ioney bought good blood." "That's just what I think, dad," said Tim, brightening up, "and I don't see why the young lady should have any ob- jections to my personal appearance," (a look at the cracked glass, another pull at the shirt collar, and Tim was himself again,) "so if you put the screw on the old boy."  "Well, well," said his father, interrupting him, 'we'll talk of this some other time, when we'have less to trouble us. Go and see that the dogs are let loose, and that the i windows and doors are shut aild bolted, before it gets dark." Tim wisely forbore pressing the matter just then, and his good humor being perfectly restored, he rose promptly to obey his father. As he reached the door, he turned round, and taking advantage of the parental back being turned to him, he bowed low, waved his hand in a theatrical manner, and in a low voice he said, '( Gentlemen, I leave you to your wine, and, with your permission, will retire to the ladies." When he left the room, O'Roarke drank off the punch that remained in his tumbler, pushed the latter from him,   52      C THE DALYS OE DALYSTOWN. and drawing his chair closer to the fire, began to think. What the thoughts of this bad man were, is known only to God. Did he think of his young days, ere avarice had quite corrupted and hardened his heart? Did he think of the only being that ever loved him, his poor suffering wife, dead many a year? And did his conscience tell him that it was his unjust and cruel treatment of the poor, which she wit- nessed, without the power of redressing, that sent her to the grave. Did he think of that mother whom death itself could not separate from her child? Yes, whatever else he may have thought of, in,that long reverie, which lasted un- til evening had given place to night, and no objects in the room were visible, except those which the light of the fire fell upon. He had thought of her, for he now muttered to himself, "' It was cursed unlucky surely, I would rather twen- ty of the other ruffians were shot than this young Donelan, he was so d-d well liked. They say, too, that he was forced to come here, by the others. Well, how was I to know that or him? When a man's house is attacked, has he not a right to defend himself? The death of his mother, too- well, how could I help that? Was I to blame? No man or woman can say I was, with any show of truth. But that  won't prevent people from laying both their deaths at my door, and cursing me as their murderer. D-n them, who cares for their curses, didn't I thrive on them all my life? It's their blasted revenge that I have to dread, and to guard i agrainst, and a good way I'm doing it, sitting here, in the A dark, without as much as a shutter closed."     F He rang the bell andae slattern girl made her appearance, s rubbing her eyes, as if she had just been disturbed from i sleep.                        "Get a candle here," said her master. Yes sir," she re-  plied, tumblimg out of the room and presently returning witi. a lighted candle. "Where's Mr. Tim?" asked O'Roarke. ' In the kitchen, sur, smoking," she replied. ' Leave them shutters alone, I'll close them myself," said O'Roarke. '; Be off and go to your bed." When the girl left the room, O'Roarke got up, and closed the shutters of the windows, and secured them with strong   i:        THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      53 iron bolts. He then went to the hall door, to assure him- self that the fastenings of bolt and lock were well secured, then to the passage leading to the kitchen, and called out. "hOUare Tim?" "Yes, dad," relied Tim. "Is the kitchen door bolted and the dogs out?" "All right, Guvner," answered Tim. With a heavy step, O'Roarke ascended to his bed room. He paused on the landing, "Well," he muttered, ,it's strange, but I often envied. Widow Donelan that fine son of her's, and would willingly have given half what I'm worth, that Tim-was like him. Poor Mary, too, used to stop on the road, long ago, and kiss him and say, while she raised the curls from his forehead, '"Well, John, aint he a A fine little fellow? God grant, my little man, that you'll be a comfort and good help to your mother that owns you." Aye, there was Mary, she had every one's blessing, and what good did it do her? Did it keep death from her? D-n their blessings and their curses, one is as good as the other." So saying, he entered his sleeping room, closed the door with a loud bang and bolted it on the. inside. On the same evening a very different party had met to- gether in the old family parlor at Dalystown. It was a lofty room, with large bay windows. The furniture was of the old massive style--the only modern article being a very handsome piano, at which Miss Daly sat. She had been playing, and was now engaged in carelessly turning over the leaves of her music book. Mr. Daly and Henry sat be- fore the cheerful peat fire which burned in the large, hos- pitable grate. On the hearth rug lay an old setter dog, who claimed the privilege, in consideration of his age and past' services. "Well, Carlo," said Mr. Daly, "are you tired, old dog, after your day's work?"Carlo struck his fine feathered tail upon the rug, in recognition of his master's voice. "Ah, I believe you are," continued Mr. Daly. "Do you know, Henry, I sometimes think that he gets jealous of the superior going of the younger dogs; for after fruitless at- tempts to keep up with them, he sometimes gives up alto. gether, and with drooping tail, follows at my heels. Well,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. , old fellow, I saw the day when your style of going would have put those young puppies to the blush." The dog acknowledged the compliment by a prolonged wagging of his tail.. "I assure you," continued Mr. Daly, " he is in the great- est joy any day I bring him out alone. He will frisk about the high bank before entering the bog, giving me, at the same time, very approving looks, which I interpret as say- ing: 'What do you think of that, old master? Don't you see we can get on very well together, and that you were quite right in leaving those young dogs at home, who are too giddy for either of us . "  Henry laughed, and the old dog, perceiving by the looks directed towards him that he was the subject of considera- tion, rose slowly to his feet and laid his head on Mr. Daly's knee. "Poor old fellow," said Mr. Daly, patting him. "Emily, love, I want to hear you sing. I have not heard a song, I think, since Henry returned." , ( What shall it be, papa?" asked his daughter. "I will leave the selection to yourself, love," replied her father. "Henry, will you join me?" said Miss Daly. "Yes," he replied ; " have you tried any of those I brought to you?" "I but looked over them," she answered; "there is one which I like; I will try and sing it:" The Soul's Yearning. "Ah! ask me not to sing to-night,   Beneath this star-lit sky,   My song for thee should be as light As the love beam in thine eye; Now, my spirit is all weary, Although, love, thou art so near, And if I touch my harp, Kathleen, 'Twill but sadden thee, I fear. Weary as the bird, whose wing Dips in the treacherous wave, Poor songstress, never more to sing- Denied thy leafy grove; t    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.         55 Weary as the timid hare, t Who from her covert flies, Pursued by hound, returns her there, And bleeding, panting, dies. Not that to me earth's beauties Have paled upon my sight, Not that woman's bright eyes Have veiled from me their light; Not that youth's companions Have passed me in life's race, Not that I have trusted, To find that all were base. There's not a tiny flower, But glad's my heart to see, Love lies within my bower, For art thou not by me? The well won fame of others Has been to me a joy, And the friends are still beside me, Whom I trusted when a boy. Yet, as now, when stars ard shining, And the moon shows her silvery crest, There comes a strange, sad pining, To be near them, and at rest; Until my soul grows weary Of life's slow-ebbing sand, And I sigh for the fadeless flowers That grow in the spirit land." "Very good," said Mr. Daly, when the song ceased. "I believe I must let you off, Emily, with that one song, to- night, for we must go to bed betimes, as Henry will have to be up early to-morrow, and you must not leave him to the mercy of sleepy servants." "Oh, upon my word," said Emily, "I had quite forgotten that Henry goes to Galway to-morrow; you will return the day after, will you not, Henry 8? "Certainly," he replied. "I think it much better," said Mr. Daly, "that you travel in your own gig, than by coach, as you will then be your own master, to leave any time your business is done." "I believe, sir, said Henry, "I have your instructions in full, as to what I am to propose to this Lyons?" "I think you have," replied Mr. Daly, "you are to get   56       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. him, if possible, to renew those bills of mine, which he has contrived to get into his hands. I have not receivedhalf my rents this year, and, unless those bills are renewed, I must fail in meeting them. Of course you will have to pay t Lyons a high discount. - Heigho I I am anxious that you should see him as soon as possible. You know there is to be a meeting, next week, of the magistrates and gentry of the county, on account of this unfortunate attack on O'Roarke's house, in which poor Donelan lost his life, and I wish you to attend for me." "Why not go yourself, father?" asked Henry. ' I am getting old, Henry," replied his father, " and, just now, don't find myself in spirits. I would go, indeed, if I thought I could do any good, but I know pretty well how matters will be carried on, and, though I wish you to be present, it is not from any hope that good will result from this meeting. I suppose you will call upon some of your friends in Galway?" "Only on the O'Kellys," replied Henry, "Emily tells me that they have taken a lodge, at Salt Hill, * for the + season." "So they have," replied Mr. Daly, "you will spend a pleasant evening with Anthony and his brothers, but I fear you will find it a hard matter to get away. Most assuredly, they will be for making you stop three or four days with them." "I will have a fight for it," said Henry.  "In the mean time,' replied his father, "I advise you ' to get a good night's rest, I believe there are none of  the O'Kelly family at the sea, but the young fellows, and I am told people do not sleep very well where Anthony is  head of the house."                  "No," replied Henry, laughing, "Anthony, like a royal crown, is a foe to sleep." * A fashionable watering place, outside the town of Galway.   j THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWNt.    57 CHAPTFE   VII. IN WHCH HENRY DALY, AND SOME FRIENDS OF HS, MEET WITH A "TTLE ADVENTUBE-AN ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, AND A SLIGHT GLANCE AT THE HAPPY ARRANGEMENTS OF MR. LYONS DO- I MESTIC CIRCLE, On the following morning, Henry set out for the town of Galway, and arrived there about five o'clock in the af- ternoon. Thinking it too late, then, to call upon Mr. Bartley Lyons, he proceeded to the O'Kelly's lodge, outside the town. His road lay mostly along the sea shore, command- ing a fine view of the bay of Galway, while, in the distance, was seen the coast of Clare, with its bold and fertile moun- tains rising from the sea; a fitting home for the bold peas- antry that then peopled it. As Henry was making some inquiries for the whereabouts of his friends' lodge, he was hailed from an open window, at which three young gentle. men had been sitting, and, by the time he had reached the lodge gate, they were there to receive him. Fine young fellows they were, with fair hair, blue eyes, broad shoulders and athletic limbs, an abundance of animal spirits, dev- ilment and goodness of heart. Brave,- generous and free,-they were the idols of the peasantry, in their neighborhood, and many a petty tyrant was restrained from oppressing the poor, by the dread which their names inspired. The moldering walls of upwards of thirty castles, in Gal- way, Roscommon and Mayo, are silent witnesses to the for- mer extensive possessions of the noble family to which they belonged; while the beautiful ruins of Kilconnel Ab- bey, erected and endowed by one of their ancestors, still   58      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.  gives to his descendants their last resting place, in its ivy- i fretted aisle.                    "Well, Henry, I am very glad to see you," exclaimed x Anthony O'Kelly, the eldest of the three, as they entered F the lodge together. "I hope your father and Miss Daly are well." "Quite well, thank you, Anthony," replied Henry. "Have you set up bachelor's hall here, or do you expect your father and mother to join you?" "No," replied An- thony. "They will not come to the sea this year, but both Pat and Michael injured themselves with too hard study; and my mother wished that they should have the benefit of sea bathing, so knowing me to be a steady character, I was sent in charge of them." "A most judicious selection, truly," said Henry. "How many scrapes, boys, did he get you into, since your arrival  here?"  "Not, many," replied the second brother, Pat., " he made : Michael horsewhip an English officer, for upsetting an old  woman's apple stand." "You should have added," remarked Michael, " not be- I fore the fellow refused to pay the old woman for her ap-  ples and fright and had given her some impertinence. I also found out, Henry, that the fellow did it for a bet," "Well, what was the result?" asked Henry. "Oh, the gallant hero sold out and returned to England," replied Anthony, " but here comes the dinner. I hope, Hen. ry, your drive has given you a good appetite for it." As he spoke, an old grey headed servant entered the room with dinner.  "Your honor's welcome, Mr. Daly,"' he said. "How are all the family, sir?" "Quite well, John, thank you," replied Henry, "I did not expect to see you here John, as your old master re- mained at home."  "He sent me, sir, to mind the young gentlemen," replied the servant. "Why," said Henry, laughing, " you all seem to have been sent to mind one another. Here is Mr. Anthony, who says that he came to mind Mr. Pat and Mr. Michael."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      59 "Oh, murder! and he the worst of all," exclaimed John, raising up his hands, "sure, it's as quiet as lambs they'd be, but for him." "Silence, you old defamer," said his young master. ' Hen- ry shall I help you?" "Thank you. I suppose, John, you find it very hard to mind them." "By dad, Mr. Henry, I often think that my mother, rest her soul, had an insight into what I'd be doing, when she ! was dead and gone, and thought to prepare me for it." "How was that John," asked Henry. "You see sir," John replied, "she was mighty fond of set- ting wild ducks' eggs, that I used to bring out from the bog; and when the birds would come out, she'd be saying, ' Jack, mind the birds.' It was easy enough to do it, when they were small, but when they got anyways big, my hand to you, they were off to the bogs, and wild as you please. It's much the same with Mr. Anthony, here.  When he was little he'd mind what old John would say to him; but now, devil a wild duck ever flew over the bog of Crith could hold a candle to him." And the old fellow laughed, as he gave his young master a proud, affectionate look. "And what lucky wind has blown you here, Henry?" asked Anthony. "I hope it was good nature that induced you to come and visit us, babes on the rocks." "I can't say it was," replied Henry. "Come to take a lodge?" inquired Pat. "To see old ladies eat shrimps, and cheat at loo?" re- marked Michael. '"While the younger ones bathe in the morning for the good of their health, go to church in the forenoon for the good of their souls, and waltz all night for the good of their doctors," said Anthony. "None of those inducements have brought me here," re- plied Henry. "In fact, I must return home to-morrow." ' Anthony gave a low whistle. "You'll see to. that, Mi- chael," he remarked to his brother. The latter nodded. Henry was well aware what this meant. "Michael," he said, "before you take the trouble of having my horse and gig conveyed to parts unknown, I promise, on my honor;   (60      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.  : not to leave to-morrow, unless Anthony himself permits me to do so. Is that fair."     -  "Oh, perfectly; agreed-agreed," exclaimed the brothers. "In fact," continued Henry, " my business here is neither for pleasure or health; but to try and arrange some money matters with an attorney in Galway." "Oh, indeed," said Anthony; "what do you say to coax- ing him out here, and holding him under water until he came to terms? "Or picking a quarrel with him, and shooting him," re- marked Pat. "I fear " said Henry laughing, "I must try more legal and peaceful means with my man." "What's his name?" asked Anthony. "Lyons, " replied Henry. "What, Bartly Lyons8 " exclaimed Anthony. "Oh he's too low, I fear, even to hold under water. Poor old Lord i Mount Garrett always shot his way through a law suit. i W hat do you say to a walk, Henry "  "By all means," replied his friend, "I am much obliged to  you for proposing it."  "Oh I know of old, you're no hand at the bottle. So fin-  ish off what you have in your glass, and we'll take a sniff of  the sea"  When Henry and his friends left the house they entered j upon a road which ran for some distance parallel with the  sea shore and as the evening was fine they met several  carriages, whose fair occupants had come out tGo enjoy the refreshing air. It was crowded too, with the peasantry coming from the Galway market. The men in this part of the island are amphibious ani- mals, half of their time being spent on the sea and the other half in agricultural pursuits. So their appearance smacks both of sea and land. The dress of the women is ex- ceedingly picturesque. A red flannel jacket, fitting closely to the body, sets off the erect and flexible carriage which the habit of carrying light burdens on their heads has giv- en them, (will some of our drooping belles try this?) A skirt of stuff or cotton, open in front, discloses a blue pet, ticoat. On holidays, a blue cloth cloak and a silk handker.   TTHE DALYS OF DALYSTO WNo    6 chief (worn on the head,) of many colors, complete this costume. They are a very handsome race, with regular oval features, large dark eyes, (mayhap somewhat brown with exposure to the weather,) red lips, and teeth of pearly whiteness. Ah! my modest, bright eyed blooming Galway girl, years have gone by since I -looked upon your sunny face, and many a lovely lady have I seen since then, yet never met I one so beautiful as you. Anthony O'Kelly seemed to know every one, from the lady in her carriage to the young girl with her fish basket on her head. From the gentleman on horseback, with his neatly appointed groom following after, to the countryman driving his flat car. As he walked along he kept up a con- tinual fire of small talk with those passing: ' How do you do Miss Blake? lovely evening." "Ah Biddy, is that you? what would I give for one kiss from those cherry lips." "Anything neWt, Bodkin; is that the young horse you were speaking of? He should be a fencer, he has his legs well under him." "Well, Pat, how's the boat, and the wife and children?. Half an hour's walking brought our party to where the road diverged from the sea, and leaving it, they crossed over a stile and continued their walk by the shore. Find- ing themselves now quite alone they conversed with all the familiarity of intimate friends, nor did they perceive the time passing until they reached Barna Point, a high cliff jutting over the sea. As they came upon the table land they saw before them a young girl. She was kneeling on the very edge of the cliff, wringing her hands and seeming wild with terror. She was dressed in the usual red jacket and blue petticoat, her feet were bare and her auburn hair pushed back from her tem- ples fell in rich profusion over her shoulders. With extend- ed neck, and straining eyes. she watched the movements of a small boat making for the shore, about a, mile farther up. Now and then she turned her eyes inland towards the Galway road, and each time that she did so, she wrung her hands and wept aloud. "What can be the matter," said Henry Daly, about to rush forward. But Michael O'Kelly caught his arm, "Stay"-   62       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.        = said the latter, "if you frighten her she will fall over the : cliff." The young girl turned around and shading her eyes i with her hand scrutinized them for a moment, in the next she was lrnning towards them, exclaiming," Oh gentlemen save my father." "How, where is he, girl " asked Anthony O'Kelly. "Oh sir, in that boat you see coming in there. He's bringing potheen* from the Island of Arran, and look, there's the gauger's car coming along the road, I know his white horse, some one has informed against- him, and he ll be ketched just as he's landing." The four gentlemen looked in the direction she pointed to, and saw an outside car, (on which sat five men) coming along the road at a furious pace. Anthony O'Kelly comrn-  prehended at a glance how matters stood. "By all that's lovely, my pretty girl,' he said, "and that's X yourself, we'll balk the rascals for you, run on you, meet I vour father, and warn him; leave the rest to us to manage. i "Come boys, let us make for the road, and head the fel-  lows," So saying he started off at full speed, followed by ' his brothers and Henry. Crossing two or three fields and jumping over as many walls, they found themselves on the high road, the car not more than a hundred yards distant from them. "Now boys, keep the middle of the road, and do not leave  it until these fellows are nearly over us," said Anthony. -"Hillo, hillo," shouted the driver of the car, as he beat his horse with a heavy whip. "Out of the way there. Do you want to get driven over " Anthony who was in the middle of the little party, jump- ed to one side, just as the horse nearly touched his chest. "Ha" said the driver, with a grin. -I thought you'd leave that." "And I think, you'll leave that," replied O'Kelly, striking him at the same time on the side of the head with a stick. The man tumbled out of his seat, and fell heavily to the ground; at the same time the horse shied and drew the car over a large stone, spilling the. remaining four men out upon the road. Finding himself thus rid of his burden, the Illicit spirits.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      63 horse ran away, amusing himself, as he did so, by kicking the car to pieces. The men did not seem to have been much injured by this upset, for they were quickly on their legs, and one of them, a large man, with a blotched, red face and wearing a seedy i black coat, tightly buttoned, advanced to Anthony, and demanded "how he dared to interfere with a King's officer, on the King's high road." "A King's officer," said O'Kelly, in a contemptuous tone. "Yes sir, a revenue officer," replied the man. "Oh! a gauger," said Anthony. "Yes sir, a gauger," answered the other, and by ---, you will pay for this. But I have not time now to deal with you. Let us run on men, and we'll be in time to nab them yet. But Anthony placed himself, right before him on the road. "How dare you, sir," said the former, '; attempt to leave without first apologizing for your conduct?" "Apologize," exclaimed the gauger. "Yes sir," replied Anthony. "Did you take us for kegs of potheen whiskey, that you attempted to split us open with your car?'" "Oh by  " exclaimed the other, now foaming with rage, "I'll soon make you leave the way," and, advancing, he struck at Anthony with a large stick, but the latter caught the stick in his left hand, and drawing the gauger into him dealt him a blow with his right, between the eyes, which stretched him on the road. The driver, who had by this time recovered his senses and his legs, now came forward to the assistance of his friends and a general row took place. But the officer and his men were no match for those op- posed to them. They were knocked down as fast as they got up, and at length, when a well planted blow from Michael O'Kelly left the gauger bleeding and senseless on the ground, his assistants fell upon their knees and sued for quarter, which was magnanimously granted by the vic- tors. The gauger was taken up, carried to the side of the road and placed in a sitting position, with his back against the L wall. Cold water was thrown plentifully in his face, and in ashort time he showed signs of returning consciousness.   "      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "He'll do now," said Anthony, "but I advise you, my  friends, when he comes to, not to allow him to excite-him- C self. He seems a' zealous creature, but when -taking the? air drives too violently for the safety of his precious health.  Yolr horse, Ifear, is by this time browsing on the banks of j  Lough Corrib, but a gentle walk home will do our friend good. Tell him not to forgetme. Good evening. Come,  Henry. I want to show you the sun setting from the point I was speaking of. By George I had no notion that we would have so pleasant a little set to. And our four gen- tlemen retraced their steps to the cliff, from which they had run to intercept the gauger.: While Anthony was speaking, the men hadkept scowl- ing at him, but remained silent, and as soon as he and his I party passed out of hearing one of the fellows who was , busy bandaging his broken head, exclaimed, as he looked  after them  "Wethen, may the divil fly away with you, what a quare ei notion of pleaure ou have, to be sure. Who is he at all,  at all, Tom ."' Tom, who was endeavoring to stanch the blood that was  freelyflowingfrom one of his temples, replied. cFI'm think-  ing it must be that devil, Mr. Anthony O'Kelly, for I'm  told he's come again this year to Dan Doolan's lodge." When the four gentlemen arrived at the cliR they look- Q ed in the direction the boat was last seen in. She was no., where visible, but on a knoll just at the point she had been X steering for, a group of fishermen were collected. sat ()iKelly took a white handkerchief from his pocket, i and held it up; a loud cheer answered the signal. "All right " said Anthonyj " our little friend made good use of her legs. And now, Hen ry, where shall we spend the rest of the evening. What say you to a supper at Mol- "No, no, Anthony, "' replied his friend, "I know how those suppers end, and I really have business to transact, which could not be well done inside the walls of a prison. "Pooihe replied Anthony. "You are as great a croaker as old John. But as you will; so let us return home Nothing, indeed, I am so fitted for, as a domestic life. B an tu;alder answered the signal.   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN-      65 George, I have a great mind to marry that little beauty, and turn smuggler on a respectable scale." Henry pleaded his cause so well, that evening, with his friends, that they consented to- allow him to return home" the following day, and, as they now sat at an early breakfast, John announced that a man wished to speak with -the gentlemen. "Who is. he, John, and what does he want?" asked An- thony. "Oh, he's one of them fishermen" replied John, "And he's come to thank you for killing the gauger for him." And the old servant shook his head ominously. Now I regret to be obliged to state, that John was acting a little of the hypocrite ; for five minutes before entering the room, he had been chuckling with delight at the recital of " his young gentlemen's" exploits the previous evening. "Oh let him come in by all means," said O'Kelly. Presently, there was ushered into the room a man, ac- companied by our little heroine of the previous evening. She was now neatly dressed; a blue cloak, with its hood, hung loosely on her shoulders; her hair, twisted in many folds, was gathered up at the back, and on her feet were grey stockings and well polished shoes. As she came in, she nudged the man's arm and said, pointing at the same time to Anthony, ( That's him, father, that's the gentleman who brought the others to stop the. gauger." "Hallo, my little smuggler," exclaimed Anthony, "how are you " "Thank your honor," she replied, dropping a courtesy, "I'm very well."  "Gentlemen," said the man, advancing a few steps into the room, "I'm come to thank yoiu or the good turn you did me last night. But for you, I would be now in Galway jail, and me and mine are ever bound to pray for you. Sor- ry 1 am that we can do no more." "As for that, my good man," replied Anthony, "I would sooner have the prayers of your little daughter there, than the Bishop of London's." "Her's and her mother's, sir, you will always have. She wouldn't be easy until I brought her with me, to thank the 5   "      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.         brave gentlemen who saved her father. Well, agra, * there ; they are."  On this, the child, for she was little more, stepped for- ward, took Anthony O'Kelly's hand and raising it to her lips, i kissed it. As she did so, a tear of gratitude Hell upon it. She then went round the table, paying a like tribute of thanks to' each of the other gentlemen, after which she returned to her father's side. It was asserted afterward, both by his brothers and Henry Daly, that something, very like tears glistened in Anthony's eyes, when the little girl kissed his hand. This he stoutly denied, which they as strongly maintained, alleging, not without some show of truth, that by no possibility could they have thought of inventing so absurd a story. John now entered with two jars, and, looking very know- ingly at Anthony, asked if they were to be put in the gar- den. "Of course," replied his master, "if it is potheen you have in them. Where did you get it." "Oh, then," said the man, " why did you bother his honor I about it. It's a little drop, Mary, here, sir, brought to you,!n if your honor will be good enough to take it from her." '  "To be sure I will," replied O'Kelly, i' for I know Mary has brought me the best. But, in return, she must take the price of a ribbon."  "Not a penny, sir," said the man, reddening, " we made i bold, thinking that you would not be too proud to take a little present from the likes of us." "Oh, don't say another word about it," replied O'Kelly, "I am very much obliged to Mary' for her present, but I can't see why she should not take one from me."   I "There's a wide' differ, sir," replied the man, " between potheen and money." "So there is," said Anthony, " the latter deadens our spir- itualism, clogs the intellect and gives restless nights; where- as, potheen feathers, at the shortest notice, the imagination, and makes one sleep like a top." Anthony's eulogy on potheen whiskey, caused a laugh, in which the young girl and her father joined, not the less * Darling.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      67 heartily, because they did not understand it. How many lecturers have been applauded because they were not un- derstood. "Well, gentlemen, said the man, "I'll be wishing you a good morning. The next still we'll run, Mary will bring you a drop of the best." "Stay a moment," said Anthony, " what is your name?" "Murphy, your honor, Pat Murphy."' "Well Murphy, said O'Kelly, "I think Mary much too young and pretty to be calling upon gentlemen, and if you take my advice, you will employ some older person to dis- pose of your potheen among your customers.," "So I do, sir, she never sold a drop in her life, but I'd trust her in the desert with your honor, nor fear any harm would come of. it." "I'm much obliged to you, Murphy, for your good opinion of me; I wish you could impress some of it on John, there, and now go with him, and he will give you and Marya cup of tea. John, after you take breakfast, bring around Mr. Daly's gig. I am sorry to say, he is obliged to leave us to- day. And, as you have to go, Henry, it is as well that you should get to Galway in time to transact your business. Of course, Murphy, you and your friends will keep silent, as to the part we took in your little affair, last evening. If the gauger makes any work about it, his furious driving will quite justify us in what we did. We were not to know that we were interfering 'with his majesty's officer, or his majesty's highroad . "And Anthony laughed, as he thought of the gauger's pompous address, and the sorry figure he cut, a few moments afterward. "Oh, never fear, sir," replied Murphy, ," but he'll get a hint afore he's much older, that if he wants his bones safe, he'll have nothing to say to your honors." Murphy and his daughter now left the room, followed by old John, whose countenance had worn, for some  time back, a very thoughtful expression. "Glory be to God," he muttered, as he walked along, " but there's a great change, entirely, come over him. Faith he discoorsed the father like a young priest, never as much as asked a kiss from the colleen *-lets Mr. Renry Daly go away with his * Young girl.   68      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. free will and consent, and spoke about attending to busi- ness. I'm glad, anyhow, he licked the gauger, or I'd be thinking it was a change before death he was getting." In half an hour afterward, Henry's gig was at the lodge gate, and after getting a promise from Anthony, that he would go to Dalystown the evening before the intended meeting and accompany Henry to it, the latter wished his friends good bye, and set off for the town of Galway. When he arrived there he put up his horse and gig at one of the hotels, and proceeded, on foot, to the residence of Mr. Bartly Lyons. On knocking at the door, it was opened by an untidy girl. whose red arms were covered with soap suds, which she wiped off with a dirty apron. Some one has said, " that you can judge a man by his servants." Certainly the specimen that now confronted Henry, did not go to prove that refined taste was a leading feature in the arrangements of Mr. Lyons' establishment. "Is Mr. Lyons at home? ' demanded Henry.      "Missus," roared the girl, "is Master widdin?." "No, ^ he's not," screamed a shrill voice, from under ground. I "Her voice was ever soft, gentle, and low, i An excellent thing in woman,"  So says Shakspeare; but from the tones that reached I Henry, it was evident, that in selecting a partner for life, A Mr. Lyons had overlooked or disregarded such a trifle. ! "Do you know if he will be soon in?" asked Henry of l the girl, whom he judged was to act as a kind of medium  between himself and the emboweled missus. '"Will he be soon in mum?" roared the medium.  "How do I know?" screamed the voice; "have I a string to his toe?"Come down here and mind your wash-  ing. Who wants, him 5" "It's a gentleman, mum," said the girl, running to the head of the stairs, and letting her voice fall into the tomb. "Oh," said the voice, and then Henry heard a step as- scending the stairs, and in a moment afterward, was aware that there was a very soiled cap looking at him. "Mr. Lyons is out," said the soiled cap, " but he will soon be in. If you wish to wait for him, you can go up to the office, the back room on the first landing, you'll find   THE DALYS Or DALYSTOWN.      69 the chap there; one of them Blakes or Bodkins," continued the soiled cap in retreating tones, as Henry ascended the stairs, " wanting money for one devilment or another." When Henry reached the landing he knocked at the door he had been directed to. "Come in," said a voice. He did so, and found himself in a small room smelling strongly of musty paper; its furniture consisted of a high desk, three office stools, a table covered with papers, an easy chair drawn toward the latter, and an empty bird cage hanging up close to the window. It struck Henry at the time, that it might have been facetiously placed there by Mr. Lyons, as emblematic of a jail; thereby acting as a warning to his friends, to meet their notes, and that he had deemed the presenceof a lively, little bird, hopping about, and seemingly perfectly happy in its confinement, might injure the effect. bitting on one of the office stools, was a boy of about fifteen years of age.  Henry expected to have seen one of those half starved drudges, the monotony of whose lives are only enlivened by witnessing the agony of wretched clients and debtors, under the professional knife, and in which, at length, they take a morbid delight, that give to their ountenances a pry- ing, roguish look. But the face of this boy was signally beau- tiful, dark, rich curls, clustered around his white forehead, his large, hazle eyes, were fringed with long, silken lashes, but there was a wild, frightened expression in them when Henry first -addressed him, which afterward subsiding into a hopeless, melancholy look, was verv painful to behold in one so young. His cheeks too, were thin, and colorless with now and then a flush passing over them, and there was a  nervous twitching about his mouth, as if some sup- pressed grief was ever present to his mind. His clothes seemed to have been originally of good materials and tastefully made, but they were now threadbare and much too short in the sleeves and legs. "Mr. Lyons is not within, I find," said Henry. "No sir) he is gone, I believe, to the post office," replied the boy.   70      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       ): "Do you think he will soon return?" asked Henry. "Yes sir, he will be back in a short time." "In that case, if you will allow me, I will wait for him,"  said Henry, walking over to the window. The boy got off of his stool and handed Henry the only chair in the office. "Thank you," said Henry, " you have a fine view here." The boy made no answer but looked toward the bay, in which there were, at that moment, a number of fishing smacks going out to sea. Soon his gaze became fixed and eager, and Henry, whose presence he seemed to have forgotten, remarked that his eyes filled with tears. "Pray," said Henry, " are you Mr. Lyons' son 2" "No Sir," he replied, "I'm his nephew." "And your father?"'! said Henry. The boy leaned his face upon the desk, "I have no father," he answered in a low voice. No mother, God help me. i "My poor boy," said Henry, taking his hand. "My poor  child, I did not intend by my idle question to fret you, God :! pity you indeed, for I believe you want his help." "Oh don't sir, pray don't," exclaimed the boy. "It is  many a long day since any one has spoken kindly to me, and H-I can't bear it." As he spoke he laid his young head down again upon the desk, and no longer able to suppress his feelings, sobbed aloud.                       I Henry was confounded and pained. The boy's grief was  so sudden and unexpected that he did not know what to  say or do to comfort him. After a few moments he raised . his head. As he did so a spasmodic quiver shook his frame and his eyes asssumed their old frightened expression. "Oh1 " he exclaimed, *' If my uncle should come in and find me crying." The look, the tone, coupled with the boy's recent burst of grief, revealed to Henry one of those little tragedies that are acted every day around us, numerous as flies in the butchers' shambles. Seldom noticed by us, yet marked by Him who watcheth the sparrow fall. The plot, simple and world-old,-power and cruelty, on one side, helpless suffer- ing on the other.   ITEM DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.    71 "You must think me very foolish, sir," said the boy, "but you spoke so kind and gentle, and-and-I could not help it indeed." "What is your name my young friend'?" asked Hen . "Edward Vaughan, sir."  "And both your parents are dead?" g  " "Yes sir," he replied. "And my uncle spoke so harsh to me this morning, that I was thinking of them when you  came in. So when you asked about them, H-I could not help crying." j "My dear boy," replied Henry, " you need not be asham- I ed of your feelings, or make any excuse. But you must be more of a man Edward--your uncle is not kind to you then?" "Kind," exclaimed the boy bitterly, "you see that empty cage? Well, I had a bird in it which I brought from home. It was all I had belonging to my home. I hung it' up here, because no one ever comes into this room after office hours, and I used to steal up and sit here in the mornings and evenings, listening to my bird's song until I would picture myself sitting in our old parlor, and looking into my mother's face. During office hours I always covered up the cage, lest the bird's singing would annoy my uncle; but one morning I was sent out in a great hurry, and for- got to place the cover over the cage; when I returned my uncle had the head wrung off the bird." "The brute," said Henry. "I would not mind all this," resumed the boy, r"I would forgive him all his cruelty to me, if he would but let those that are dead and gone alone. But when he is vexed with me he speaks badly of my poor father and motheri I am sure I do not know, sir, why I make so free in telling you all this. You want to see my uncle on business, sir?" Henry perceived that the boy was endeavoring to calm down his feelings, but the former's curiosity and sympathy were excited quite enough from the little he had already seen and heard to make him anxious to know more of the lad's history. So, without replying to his last questions he said: "What profession or calling had your father; Edward. You see I wish we should be friends, and so call you by your name."   72      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWNW. He comprehended Henry, and the kind tones of his question inspired him with confidence. "He was a pilot, sir," he replied, " he belonged to this harbor." Then, getting off his seat, he advanced to the window where Henry was standing, '"Look, " he exclaimed, pointing to the bay, which lay before them, ' since I was six years old, I have passed almost all my time on the sea. When my father wentwto meet vessels, bound for this port, he took me with him, and many a summer's day, as we lay off and on waiting for vessels, he taught me my lessons. When he boarded a vessel I returned with our boatmen, and when he came on shore and home in the evening, he would tell me, while my mother sat beside him, working with her needle, all ^ about the vessel he had piloted in, the name, where from, :i what cargo she had, and what gales she met with. In  speaking thus he would, perhaps, be reminded of things!j that happened to himself at sea. I remember of his telling  us, in this way, of a shipwreck by which he nearly lost his J life, and how my poor mother's cheek turned pale and she s begged of him to stop, and how he laughed at what he A called her woman's fear, and told me to mind my lessons, r and that I should one day be a great captain. Now, you! have my history; unless in stormy weather, when my mother j would not allow me to leave her, keeping me, she said, to  comfort her, until my father's return, there was my home, out there upon the sea, sailing along, free and happy as i the gulls-now, it is here."   I As he concluded, he turned his eyes from the bay into ' the musty little room, and then raised them to the listener's face. Henry was about to speak, when a knock was heard at the hall door. The young face, so flushed a moment before with excitement, grew suddenly pale, and the old frightened look returned to those sad, beautiful eyes. "That's my uncle's knock," said the boy, as he hurriedly resumed his seat at the desk, and presently afterwards, Mr. Bartly Lyons entered the office. He was a strong, square built man, apparently between   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,.      73 forty-five and fifty years of age, rather good looking, with a ruddy complexion and small black eyes, full of a keen, roguish expression. His other features, aware, perhaps, of this tell tale look, endeavored to counteract it by a contin- ual bland smile, but their best efforts, in that line, always ? lapsed into a mean, groveling expression. He never openly resented an insult, but never forgave one. "Is it me," he one day said to a friend, "is it me, to take notice of what that vexed fool said? When did you ever know Bartly Ly- ons to return the hard word? No, indeed, never; oh, by , I'll catch him yet." "Mr. Lyons, I presume," said Henry. "That's my name," replied Mr. Lyons, bowing. "I have called upon you, sir, relative to some business of my father's, Mr. Daly, of Dalystown." "Oh, pray be seated, my dear sir, (strong emphasis on dear.) I have then the pleasure and honor of seeing Mr. Henry Daly. I, am very happy, my dear sir, to make your acquaintance." Henry bowed, but was unable to say that the happiness was mutual. "And how is your good father, sir . and what can I do for you?" continued Mr. Lyons. Henry, not deeming that the state of his father's health was of any vital importance to Mr. Lyons, merely replied to the latter part of his address. "You have some notes of my father's in your hands, have you not?" "No, sir, not one. I did indeed cash some bills of your father's acceptance, for a friend of mine, but I have passed them all into the bank." "I believe," said Henry, "they fall due toward the mid- dle of next month." "Some of them before that time, sir," he replied. "Ed- ward," he continued, .' hand me the billbook. Not that one, you stupid ass, ( striking him with the3 one he had brought,) don't you see this is the daybook?" The boy's face grew crimson, but he made no reply, as he returned with the right book and left it on the desk, while Henry was sorely tempted to finish his interview with Mr. Lyons by knocking him down.   74       THE DALY$ OF DALYSTO WN. "I beg your pardon, Mr. Daly," said the latter, after this little display of his kindly nature, but that fellow would vex a saint, the moping, stupid hound. He's a burthen, sir, thrown upon me, by a sister of mine, who took it into her head to marry a fellow that never would save a shilling; and then both of them must die and leave me that precious legacy. Yes, I thought so. Here's the first entry: God- frey Daly's acceptance to John O'Roarke's draft; amount, 971, 7s, 6d; due the 8th of September. Here's' another: Godfrey Daly's acceptance to James Forest's draft; amount, 151, 4s, 2d, due the 15th, and a tenant's bill I cashed for your father; amount, 200 1, due the 1st of October; making in all, 3121, Is, 11d." "Well, Mr. Lyons," said Henry, "I have come to make a proposal to you, relative to these bills; it is this: by your engaging-to have them renewed, according as they become due, I will now pay you down thirty pounds." Lyons' eyes twinkled;. the, offer was too good a one to be refused, so after saying something about the difficulty he would have in arranging with the bank, (the bills had never left his desk,) he consented and received the thirty pounds. "And now, mydear sir," said he, (' as we have arranged this little business, do me the favor to partake of a little refreshment. Mrs L. would be happy to see you." Henry, thinking that he had seen quite enough of that lady already, declined the honor of an introduction, and rose to leave, when Mr. Lyons seized his hand and again assured him of the happiness it gave him to make his acquaintance. Before leaving the office, Henry went to where poor Ed- ward Vaughan sat, and taking his hand, pressed it, and wished him good bye. As he had. no further business to transact in the town, he returned to the hotel, where he had left his horse and gig. His hand was on the bell cord, for the purpose of summon- ing a servant and ordering them round, when there rose be. fore his mind's eye that dismal, musty little office, and the face of the boy, cowering before his brutal uncle. He let the bell cord fall from his hand, and commenced walking up and down the room. "Good heavens," he thought," what a contrast between that boy's present and past life. How   THE DALES OF DALYSTOWN.       75 vivid was his 'look upon this picture and then upon that V' What a contrast indeed! Out upon the dancing waves, with a brave father, then back to shore, to a home that must have been a loving, happy one, from his recollection of it. This was his former life, and I can judge from what I have seen, what kind his present one is." He rang the bell and a servant answered its summons. "Let my gig be brought round," said Henry. ( Yes sir," replied the man. "Yet stay," said Henry.-"He took one or two turns more about the room, and then said: "Do not order my gig, as yet; when I want it, I will ring." "Very well, sir," replied the servant as he left the room. Again Henry paced up and down. "I have a great mind," he said, giving his thoughts words, ' to ask this uncle of his to allow him to come with me to Dalystown, for a short time. I know my father would have no objection, and one month over the green fields would be new life to the poor little fellow. Again he was silent while he -continued to walk up and down. After a little time he said: "Perhaps after all, it would be mistaken kindness, mak- ing his present life more wretched and insufferable, when he returned to it." He paused, then added: "No matter, his future is in the hands of Him who has promised to be a father to the fatherless, and if it is in my power now, to give his young life a few happy days, why should I balk myself the pleasure of doing so by anticipat- ing the future? Ah which of us can do that? But I fear I will find it difficult to get this uncle of his to consent. Well, I will try at all events." So saying he took his hat, and bent his steps to Mr. Lyons' house. As he went up the stairs, he heard the attorney's voice raised in angry tones, and on reaching the office door the boy's sobs were audible. "I fear," thought Henry, "I have hit on a bad time, but it can't be helped." When he entered the room, Edward Vaughan's face was turned toward the wall and he was in the act of wiping his eyes. When he heard Henry's voice, he turned round and his face flushed either from shame or pleasure at seeing him again.   76       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Oh, Mr Daly," said Lyons, " happy to see you again, sir, have you forgotten anything?" "No indeed," said Henry, smiling, " but I have a request to make to you though I do not well know how to put it." "Pray what may it be, my dear Sir?" said Lyons, who judged by the other's face that it was no business matter. "I will be most happy to oblige you if in my power." "Thank you," replied Henry, "that being the case I will at once state it. The fact is, I have taken a great fancy to my young friend here, and have returned to ask you to allow him to spend a few weeks at Dalystown. I did not bring a servant with me, so if you are good enough to allow him to come, he can have a seat in my:gig." Lyons' face reddened while Henry was speaking. When he struck Edward, a short time before, it did not escape his notice that young Daly's eyes had flashed, and he now judged pretty correctly his reason for inviting him to Dalys. town. "But I will balk my tender-hearted gentleman," thought Lyons. "I am much obliged to you, sir," he said, "but my nephew, unfortunately, has not been left so prosperous, that he can afford to idle his time visiting. He has, sir, to earn his own bread, and I am determined by-- he shall do so." This rude speech almost made Henry lose temper, but he checked his anger when he glanced at Edward, and saw with what feverish excitement he listened. Indeed he now deeply regretted having spoken in the boy's presence. "Surely, Mr. Lyons," he -said, " you could spare him for}I few weeks." "Oh, as for that," replied Lyons, "I could well spare hill altogether, but I want to break him off the idle habits which a foolish father and mother gave him,"- "And," continued Henry, not iheeding the interruption, "I expect he would be able to remind you of his not being altogether idle, by the few baskets of game he would for. ward to you." This was a random shot of Henry's, but it told with won- derful effect upon the enemy, tearing up his bowels with a yearning for grouse, partridge, &c.; for Lyons was a goute   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,       " mand, and, next to a good bill of costs, loved a good dinner. His features relaxed as he looked down upon the desk, and pictured to himself the plump birds lying before him. "Why, really, Mr. Daly," he said, 'you are very kind, but" Henry perceiving that his shot had taken effect, interrupt- ed him,-- this time loading the gun to the muzzle- "Oh, come now Mr. Lyons, I shall take no excuse. I promise you that Edward shall send you such a quantity of game by the coach every week, that all the good livers in Galway will envy you." "But I was about to remark, Mr. Daly, that I don't see how he could go, his new clothestare not made." "Nor likely to be," thought Henry. So not at all taken by surprise at the disclosure, he replied, "This shall make no difference; I am going to get a few things from my tailor, and I have no doubt but he has some ready-made clothing which will fit Edward, 'who shall pay me one of those days.";  In an hour after this Edward Vaughan, in a new suit of well-fitting clothes, was sitting behind Henry. As they drove'out of the town of Galway, a turn in the road brought them in full view of the bay. A shade of sorrow passed over the boy's face; then, turning to Henry, he said in a low voice, that fell sweetly on his companion's ear:"If, those in heaven can look down on us, surely there are t two there now that bless you."   78       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER VIII. IN WIIICH TOM GALLAHER TELLS A VERY WONDERFUL STORY. In a short time after his arrival at Dalystown, Edward Vaughan became a general favorite with all its inmates, from Mr. Daly, down to Tom Gallaher. It is true, that at first, the latter was somewhat prejudiced against him from the fact of his being an attorney's nephew, but this feeling soon pased away, and together they made several fishing excursions. Tom even commenced to give him lessons in the art of mounting flies, an accomplishment in which Gal- laher excelled, and his imparting his knowledge to Edward, in this the highest branch of the gentle art, was a strong proof of esteem, Henry Daly being the only other person to whom he had taught his peculiar and very superior style. "Look at that grouse hackle, Master Edward, that I'm after tying for you," said Tom, as they sat on the bank of a trout stream waiting until the sun should get behind some clouds. "I'm thinking, its little fishing we'll have to-day, unless the clouds get up more, and that same would be a pity, for the wind is just in the right quarter." "Oh! Tom, you tie flies beautifully. How did you learn to do it so well?." said Edward. "How did I larn, is it, Master Edward . " replied Tom. "Faith then, I dunna how I larned it. I believe it came natural to me. Anyhow, I was near paying dear for the same one day, up forninst the old castle you see beyant there." "How was that, Tom . " "You see, Master Edward," he replied, "I was fishing up   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       79 there, of an evening, and I was after putting up a may-fly, that was as like the natural one as two peas. Well, I cast the line out, saying to myself, you'll be a cute fish that can tell the difference. Sure enough, I didn't make more than three casts when I: rose a bouncer. The next cast I tuck him: but your sowl to glory, I thought he would'nt leave a bit of my tackle together when he felt the hook. Away he darted, up and down the river; he had all -my line out in no time, so I was obliged to run along the bank, playing him, until the sweat (saving your presence) was dropping off me as big as hailstones. Well, in about twenty minutes he began to give in, and I saw he was nearly bet out. So I commenced drawing him into the bank. You see, I had no landing net. So I had to take hould of the line and lay the rod forbye me on the grass. Well in I drew until I had him within a yard of the bank, and his head and shoulders above water. "You'll come now, I'm thinking, says I." "Devil a toe," says the fish. "Arrah, what's that at all, at all says I, looking about me?" "It's plain English, says the fish, as well as your dirty hook, stuck in my jaw, will let me talk it. The Devil a toe I'll budge from this, Tom Gallaher."  "Oh, Tom, Tom," cried Edward, rolling on the ground with laughter. "Oh, faith, its easy enough for you to laugh," said Tom with a funny expression of eye, but " if you war in my place, with your heart jumping into your mouth, the sorra much you'd laugh, I'm thinking. But may be you don't believe me and don't want to hear any more of it?" "Oh, go on, go on, Tom," exclaimed Edward. "Well, sure," continued Tom, "when myself saw it was the fish that was speaking, I thought no more nor no less than that the life would drop out of me, and says I, ' who are you, at all, at all 2 "' "I'm Miss O'Toole," says the fish. "The saints above us," says I, "and what brought your ladyship's honor into the water?" "Wedden, bad scram to you, you spalpeenj" says she, "Is it after axing me, you'd be, to- discoorse the likes of you, and your misfortunate hook, tearing the lip out of me?"   80       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "I humbly beg your ladyship's pardon," says I, for I thought it best to speak civilly to her. "I humbly beg your ladyship's pardon; bad manners to it, for a hook." "Bad manners to you," says she, " that ties your flies that they'd decave any Christian soul of a fish that ever swam. I'm about here now over six hundred and twenty-one years, and the likes never happened to me afore. Slacken your line," says she," you murdherin rogue of the world that you are, and don't be chucking me that way, or I'll turn you into a pinkeen and ate you for my supper." "You see, Master Edward," said Tom, parenthetically, "somehow'the line, ever and always remained in my hand, anid the fright I was in--small blame to me--made me shake, so that-I was hurting the poor crathur unbeknownst to myself."          . "Oh, I humbly beg your ladyship's pardon," says I, drop. ping on my knee,.when she threatened to turn me into a pinkeen, "I crave your honor's pardon. I'll slacken the line with all the vanes of my heart, or do anything else to oblige your honor. " "Well, be easy, now," says she, " until I try and ready myself," and she began stirring up and down in the water. "Faith," says she. "It's a purty dance you've led me. I'm so tired, the dickens a one of me can wag my tail. Sure, it's only laughing I'd be at the flies the gentlemen buy in the shops, but you're the biggest deceiver, Tom Gallaher, that ever crossed me. Faith. if you delude the girls as you do the fish, there will be no coming up to you." "With that, she got loosened off the hook and swam in, quite close to the bank. "' Lie down there, Tom," says she, "and put your ear close to the bank, I want to discoorse with you." '"Tear anages, says I to myself, maybe it's in love she'd be with me, (for you see, I didn't half like the way she drew in about the girls,) and would be for turning me into a trout, for her own divarsion. So, says I, please your lady- ship's honor, I'm in a great hurry home, and sure, I'm only a poor boy, and if the duds of clothes were off me, (saving your ladyship's presence,) and I was to be like your lady- ship there, without so much as a flitter on me, the devil a much you'd see in me to admire."   TITHE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      1 'What are you prating about?" 1 says she, mighty Cross ike. 64 Do you tlink it's a fancy I am, looking to the likes of you? Lie down, as I bid you, or it will be worse for you."  "Well, Master Ed ward,"7 continued Tom, "I thought it best not to vex her, so I lay down on the bank, with my head close to the stream, and hard the most beautifulest sweet voice that any one ev'er hard, coming out of the1- watler, though sight or light of; the fish I couldn't see." '"Tom," says the voice, "you ax'd me how I got into the water, and I anm bound to tell you, for it is a part of my inanllce, to be obliged to answer any one that questions me, but you're the first that ever did so. I'm the daughter of old King O'Toole, that lived up at the castle there, forenint you. He was the greatest man in these parts; and kings and princes c1unlfrom every side, to ax me in marriage, friom my father; but I loved my own cousin jarmin, a brave younll man, who went to furren parts, to fight the Turkeys,e andc belold you, in a year after he left, we got an account of his death. Well, after this, another young prince came to the castle, to ax me in marriage. H-e was a comely chap, Tom, with a sweet tongue of his own in his head; and so, by clad, I thought, as my cousin was dead, there was no man- ner of use in my keeping the foolish prolmise I made him, and I consinted to take this one. Well, sure, there was the greatest preparations that could be, for the weddin. Fid- dlers and pipers came from all parts; and the king, my Ifathler, didn't lave a baste to any of the neighbors around, that lie didn't drive afore him up to the castle where they were slaughtered. Indeed, all the people that were left alive, alfter the scrimlmage, he kindly invited to help him in conshumin their own cattle; which was tl ought very good of himn." With that she stopped, Master 'Edward, and I thought I i might as well throw in a word or two, to show her I was listening; so I says, "'faith, ma'am, that same was dacenter than what the parson does; for, after killing us, out and out, for his tithes, he only offers us a dry sarmon, he knows we ' Note by the learned editor.-Tom must have meant the Turks. 6   82  ,    THE DALYS OE DALYSTOWi. won't take. But, I beg your honor's pardon for putting in my word; Av course you were married?" "No, 1 wasn't," said she, quite sharp. "Oh, blood an ages," says 1, 4 and did all them fine vittels go astray?" "No, they didn't," says she, " there were plenty of fools, like you, to ate them." "By dad, your ladyship," says I, "I don't think they were any great fools, anyhow, to circumvent such a sight of vit. tels." "Hould your tongue," says she, " and listen to what I'm obliged to tell you." "You see, Master Edward," remarked Tom, "I minded, ever since she spoke of the disappointment in the marriage, her voice was as sharp as a penny whistle." "The evening afore the marriage," says she, "I was walk- ing along the bank of the river. The young prince prom- ised that he would follow me when he could get away from the punch and the company. I turned my head to see if he was following after me, and when I looked round again, behold you, there was my cousin jarmin afore me. He looked very pale, and no wonder, for there was a big hole in his side."' "You promised," says he, ' to be true to me, while grass grew or water ran, and you war'nt, so I'm come back to punish you." With that, Tom, he hoisted me up in his arms and pitched me into the river here. "Stay there," says he, "' while grass grows and water runs,' and in the twinkling of an eye I was changed into a trout. "So now Tom Galla- her, go home and don't come here no more to this part of the river to delude me with your flies, or it will be worse for you.' "With that, Master Edward, I felt my eyes closing, and when I opened them again, the sun was down, and the moon shining on my head." "I think, Tom," said Edward, "It was all a dreamm." "Sorra dlearm at all," replied Tom, " it all tuck place jrst as I tould you. More, betoken, I never fished up there again, and when I woke up was'nt the hook just in the spot I saw it drop when she gots it out of her mouth? But   TIE DALYS OF DALYSTOWT.       83 there's a fine black cloud over the sun, Master Edward, cast the line just there where you see the curl on the wa- ter, and I'm thinking it won't be long afore you get a rise." "Here goes," said Edward, " for Miss O'Toole." Fishing with Tom, accompanying Henry on his shooting excursions, taking long walks with Emily,-a new and hap-- py life was Edward Vaughan's. He was now ever joyous and happy. The great blessing of youth is, not that we are the more capable of appreciating, or more keenly alive to happi- ness than we ever can be in after years, but that we enjoy it unalloyed by thoughts of the past or doubts of the fu- ture; we sit at the feast, and no memories arise, like Banquo's ghost, to scare us with their gaping wounds. We drink of the nectar sparkling in life's cup, unconscious that sorrow, death and the withered leaves of hope's fair blos- soms are mounting to our lips. Not, indeed, that Edward was forgetful of his first and early sorrows; but surrounded by kind hearts, the recollection of his parents awoke not the poignant, hopeless grief that the shadow of his uncle's house had darkened it with. He thought of them, as happy in heaven, blessing their orphan boy and the dear friends God had raised up for him. A conversation he had with Emily will elucidate this: 'What are you doing there, Edward, you lazy boy?" said the latter, "why are you not out, sir, such a lovely evening . " "I am trying to mount a fly like this one of Tom's, Miss Daly," replied Edward. "Ah, I can never do it like-him." "Of course you can't, so throw it by, and get your cap, i and I will honor you by taking you as my companion in a  walk., i Edward, not unwillingly, laid aside his fly-hook, and de- clared himself ready to accompany her. They passed through the pleasure grounds and entered on a path shaded i on both sides with lofty oaks and elms, then out on a green sloping pasture, carpeted with buttercups and bounded by a spark ing river; close to the river' grew a majestic oalk, round which was a rustic seat, on which Miss Daly and her comnanion sat down to rest.   84       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ' Have you got a penknife, Edward?" asked the former. ' Yes." ' Well, cut your name on this tree; all do who colme to this fairy spot." ; Do you believe in fairies? ' asked the boy. VlWhat a question," she replied, " of course I do, but I fear that the world is getting too matter of fact and prosy for the tiny people." ' What a number of names," said Edward, who, standing on the seat was busily employed cutting through the thick bark. "Yes," re'plied Emily, '6and of those who placed them there, how many have passed away from the earth! Do you see those two names with a heart between them, and the words underneath, 'Never to part?'7 " "Yes," replied the boy. "' They were lovers, Edward, but the world parted them, never more to meet, and here, under their names, are the names of two others, grandchildren of the former and lov- ers likewise. They were married, but are dead many a day." Edwalrd had by this timne finished his task, and taking a seat by Elmily's side, he said, ' do you believe that the dead can return to earth?" "I believe, Edward," she replied, ' all things are possible to the great Ruler, and that for some wise reasons,' known but to himseli; he may permit the dead to revisit the earth. But I am no believer in idle ghost stories, of haunted houses and rattling chains." "But do you not think," said Edward, ' that the good and pure, when they die, may be permitted to watch over those whol- they loved on earth?" ' It is, at all events, a beautiful thought," replied Emily. "I think," said the boy in a low voice, " that my mother often comes to me when I sleep."7 "You dream of her, Edward.7' B' But, in my uncle's house," he replied, ' my dreams were always the same. I used to think that she came to my bed- side-her face sweet and calm, but very sad,-and whis- pered to me, Yet a little, bear yet a little.' Last night I   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN.         85 dreamed of her again. I thought she came to me; oh how bright and happy was her face! She smiled on me, I felt her lips press mine: the touch awoke me, I started up in bed, and by the moonlight, saw her form, like a shadow, glide fro-n the room." "All this, Edward," replied Emily, "'is easily accounted for; you felel happier here, I believe, than you did in your uncle's house, and so your dreams llave a bright coloring.'y "Yes, but I was awake when I saw   my mother's figure passing out." "You thought so, Edward," replied Emily. Here a voice was heard singing: "If you'll have me, Widow Casey, says I, I'll give you the life of a lady;              i Slhe ups and she blackens my eye, Take that for your thanks, Patsy Brady." "Oh, there is Tom, driving home his cows," said Miss Dlly. "I must return to give papa his tea." "Again Tom's melody was wafted to them on the even- ing air: "3Iy father was right, I'll go bail, When he coortcd my mother, so cosy; lHe hit her a lick of his flail, Tliat put her nose smelling a posy. Oh, Shamus, says she, you're the boy, That has strength in your beautiful arms. If'you'll smather for me, Tom Iilroy, You may have ime, and all my young charms." "Consumen to you for cows, meandering about the coun- try as you do be, instud of stopping quietly in your own fine pasture,- "Oh, women are contrary, they say, Wherever you chance for to find them; In the long lrun, they'll have their owi way, So your best plan is just not to mind them." /   86      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER IX. SHOWING HOW ONE MEETING MAY BRING ON ANOTHER. The public meeting, to which allusion has been m and which was to have taken place the week subsequent to Henry Daly's visit to Galway, had been postponed to a later date. Young Daly apprised his friend, O'Kelly, of the fact, and the time last fixed upon, and received a letter from the latter, expressing regret that he could not be at Dalys- town the evening previous, but that he would meet Henry in the town of T  , on the day the meeting was to come off. "' I am glad that you will have Anthony with you. If you speak, Henry, do so with moderation and firmness. I know pretty well the tone the meeting will take. Those outrages, that disgrace the country will be denounced; and very proper is it, that they should be. The government will be called upon to adopt stringent measures to put them down; but those self-constituted doctors will overlook the causes which have brought on the disease. Indeed, I would not have you to attend, but that the absence of both of us would, very likely, be misconstrued. God bless you, my boy, bring O'Kelly back with you." Thus spoke Godfrey Daly, as he stood on his doorstep, seeing his son mount his horse and set off for the town of T-- When Henry reached T   , he found the streets crowd- ed with the peasantry, while, in front of the courthouse, were a number of the gentry of the neighborhood, awaiting the arrival of Lord C , who was expected to take the chair. And, while they wait, enter on the scene, my Lord He was a tall man, with a long, yellow face and scraggy neck, around which was twisted many folds of white cam-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN       87 bric. In conversation, he was slow, pompous, and rather dignified; but his attempts at public speaking were pain- fully ludicrous. At such times, he kept his mouth open, waiting for words to come which were preluded by a crow- like aw, aw. He was a bad landlord, a persecuting bigot, and, of course, a saint. His lordship was accompanied, on the present occasion, by a Mr. MacDonough, who having, in early life, changed his religion to suit the views of his lordship's family, be- came a protege of theirs. In this way he acquired a po- sition in society, which his energy and perseverance had much improved. Now, in his old age, he was a wealthy man, of large landed estates. The firm, steady way he plant- ed his foot on the ground when walking would tell a keen observer that he was one of determined will and self-reli- ance. Amongst those who came to attend the meeting were many expectants and hangers-on on 4the providence of gov- ernment. Squires, looking out for snug berths for their Jacks, and Toms; unfledged lawyers, anxious to hear them-. selves speak and have their names in print,--almost all kinds of place-hunters were there represented, from the aristocratic aspirant for baronial honors, down to the little toady whose ambitious views went no higher than a coreo- nership, t0'Roarke was there, busy in describing to all who would listen to him, the attack on his house and his valorous de. fence; while his son, Tim, dressed in showy clothes, with a simpering expression on his unmeaning face, endeavored, with monkey talent, to imitate the air and manner of some aristocratic model. After Lord C   arrived, a general movement toward the courthouse took place; the body of the court was quick- ly taken possession of by the peasantry, the gentry occu- pying the upper part. Then, after the rush had somewhat subsided, Mr. Brown, of Brown Lodge, moved, and Mr. MacDonough seconded the nlotion, 'That the right honorable Lord C  do take tle chair," whereupon, his lordship advanced to the raised bench and took his seat. Then, rising, he said: "Gentle-   88       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. men, I thank you for the honor you have done me, in call- ing upon me to preside here to day. But--aw-aw--- before we proceed to-aw--aw-to the business that has broulght us together, do you not think, as the meeting was intended to ble--awr-aw--to be confined to the magistrates and gent- ry of the county, that the--aw--aw--lower orders, whom I see crowding the-aw- aw- court, should be remlved?5' ' ear hear," from a dozen toadies. "With great respect, my lord," said Henry Daly, rising, !* I beg to differ with your lordship. You lhave announced a meeting to take place, to consider the present disturbed state of the country; by excluding the people from your proceedings, you virtually say to them that they have no stake or interest in the country." I perfectly agree with my friend,l Daly," said Anthonly O'Kel!y, who had just arrived and bustled his way to where Henry stood. "By excluding any one class, you make a hole-and-corner business of the proceedings." "No, n1o," exclaimed several gentlemen, in the neighlbor. hood of the chairman; whilst, from the body of the court was heard': "More power, old stock," ' open his lordship's handklerchy, will ye, don't ^e see he's chokingS " "Slap hm on the back, he thought to swallow his own finger arid there's a goose'o bone in his throat--aw--aw- Shouts of laughter followed this most successful imita- tion of his lordship's eloquence. His face crimsoned with rage. ' Gentlemen, he said, turning to O'Kelly and Daly, 'c the sense of the meeting is--aw-aw--" w Sur1e elnoul,' broke in a voice, ": it is aw--aw-- and haw--haw- (great laughter)-.' "--Is against you," continued his lordship. "You see too, thlat, even at this early stage of our proceedings, their untruly conduct unfits theml to be allowed to remain Y  Yes,;' replied Henry, " -,when your lordship insults them by proposing their removal.'" Lord C    made no reply, but, addressing the police officer il attendance, directed himi to order his men to clear the court. .   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ,     89 A scene of general confusion here followed. The police, pulshintg back the crowd, were, in return, shoved forward against those occupying the upper part of the court. In a short time it became evident that the small force of police were utterly unable to dislodge the enemy, and Lord C declared that he would adjourn the meeting. O'IKelly, who knew that such a course would- be most pleasing to his lordship, inasmuch as it would give his party and limself further grounds for representing to the gov- ernment the turbulent and disaffected state of the peasant- ry,--O'Kelly, knowing this, jumped upon the table in firont of the judge's bench and raised his hand. In a moment there was silence. " ' Boys, " said he, addressing the crowd, wL will you take my advice?.9 W We will! we will!" answered a hundred voiceso "Well," he continued, ' you see that I was anxious you should remain where you'are, because you have a right to be there, just as good a right as his lordship has to be where he' is at present. But I am now anxious that you should leave. Do so, quietly and peaceably." In a moment every face was turned to the door, the people seemingly now as anxious to get out as they were, a few moments before, to remain. And, as they retired, not by compulsion, but by the advice of one whomn they respected and loved, their good humor was unshaken. As they hurried out many a cutting taunt and .joke was leveled at individuals whom they disliked. "Boys take care, and don't stand on the peeler's toes," cried a voice. "Don't be pressing,me that way,"' shouted another, " or you'll make me as flat as Mr. Brown's cook, that's kept on boord wages, with the rats." "I wonder, boys, would his lordship give us a ture on the old drum, his anchestor played in Cromwell's army! Bad luck to them both."'  "Oh then, af he did, what mighty handy drumsticks Mr. Doolan's legs would make." "Paithl, thin, you need'lit disparage the dacent man's legs, for they stood to him well, the day he run away from Mr. O'Ielly, there."   90      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Three cheers, boys, for O'Kelly and Daly." A loud cheer responded to this call, which was renewed again and again, outside the building. It may appear strange that during this scene, not one al- lusion had been made to O'Roarke, but the people's hatred of him was too deep and deadly to permit of idle jesting. And now, the courthouse being cleared of all but the privileged class, his lordship rose-but I forbear from in- flicting on the reader his speech, made up of cant, slander and an unusual number of aw's-for the reco"r Peene had somewhat ruffled his lordship's temper. Theic .^ v- ments of patriotism, too, in this speech; but, unfortunately, such men as Lord C   , view their country through a telescope, that but reflects self and party interests. When he spoke of Ireland, his views were bounded by his demesne wall; he refused to see beyond the misery and degradation to which he, and such as he, had brought a noble people, and as fair a land as the sun looks down upon. Speech followed speech, resolutions were adopted calling upon the government to proclaim martial laMw-to send down a special commission, to increase the police force. These were all couched in the bitterest language against the peasantry, while they falsely eulogized the landlords. O'Kelly and Daly had, unsuccessfully, opposed several of these resolutions, and endeavored to substitute others in their place. But I pass over all this, as of little interest to the gener. al reader, and come to the speech of Mr. Brown, of Brown Lodge, as an incident connected with my story arose out of it. Mr. Brown was a gentleman of about thirty-seven years of age, whose youth had been passed in wild dissipation; he was a fierce Orangeman, hating his Catholic countrymen with that deadly hate which only an Irish Orangemanl call feel. He took no trouble to disguise his sentiments, for he was, at least, no hypocrite, and his courage was unquestion- able. Before his twenty-fifth year he had shot his two men and very coolly registered the fact on the stocks of the family dueling pistols, (the 'flying Angels') which bore al- ready nine notches, thereby recording the fact that they   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOW N.      91 had killed their nine men; but as they had been lent on several occasions to intimate friends, Mr. Brown could not claim for himself, or the members of his family, the exclu- sive honor of those bloody nicks. In person, he was a small, well-made man, with light sandy hair and fierce grey eyes. Previous to his rising to speak he had been in earnest conversation with some of his friends, and when he came forward, these latter cast significant glances to where Daly and O'Kelly sat. "They are pitting Brown at us," whispered Anthony to his friend, "so look out for squalls." Brown commenced by reading a resolution; then, ag he proceeded, he seemed to lash himself into fury: "It is time, my lord," he said, "to crush those cowardly assassins, whose religion teaches them that murder is justi- fiable, and whose priests are ever ready to absolve them of their crime. I did not, my lord," continued the speaker, "intend to have interfered with the proceedings here to- day, but when I see gentlemen, who should be above such acts, siding with a Popish rabble in order to gain their ap- plause, I cannot refrain from remarking that it confirms me in the opinion I have always held, namely: that neither birth, education or position, can long hide the cloven foot of a Papist." O'Kelly who actually trembled with passion, was about springing to his feet to interrupt Brown, but Henry Daly held him down. "My dear Anthony," said the latter, "I will take it as a personal favor if you will allow me to reply to his speech." "Well, be it so, Henry," replied O'Kelly, "You are a bet. ter hand at making a speech than I am, but, by the Lord Harry, I'll speak to him with the barking irons." The excitement caused by Mr. Brown's remarks, (no one present for a moment doubting but that O'Kelly and Daly would resent the insult levelled at them,) made his friends forget to second the motion he had just proposed. Henry Daly waited for some one of them to do so, ere he rose to reply, and the consequence was, a pause in the pro- ceedings. "Cowed, by --...," whispered a red faced squire to his   92       THE DALYS OF DALYSTO WN. neighbor, a tall, thin man, with white hair and-aristocratic features. ', I think not, Davy," replied the latter. "There is not much coward's blood in either of those you allude to. Ha! there is Daly onl his legs, and a fine young fellow he is, up. oni my honor." This remark was, in truthl, justly deserved, for Henry's appearance at the moment was strikingly favorable, when contrasted with that of his opponent, -who, thrown back in his seat, wiped his heated brow with his handkerchief, whilst his :fierce eyes glared around, noting what effect his words had. Henry, on the contrary, was cool and collected; his fea. tures betraying no evidence of passion, save that his deli- cately chiseled nostrils were slightly expanded, and that a proud, disdainful smile, curled his expressive mouth. With head thrown back, and his tall, graceful figure drawn up to its f'ull hleight, one might not unaptly compare him to a noble animal at bay; defiant and conscious of his strength. "I lave waited, my lord," he said, " thinking some gen- tleman would second the resolution just proposed." In a moment there were a dozen on their legs to remedy the ormission. Then Henry continued: "Had the gentleman who spoke last adopted a different line of argument from the one which he did, I might ]iave been inclined to reply to him at greater length than it is now my intention to do. I miIght endeav. or to show to you that our people are, by nature, neither turbulent -or disaffected to those above them. I might show to you, that in your boasted anxiety for the peace of thie country, you ever neglect to use justice or kindness, as a means to accomplish either." "4 Led(ring, by  ," exclaimed the red faced squire to Ills neighbor. ,k You see I was right, Seymour, he ewont make it personal with Brown. He is afraid of the flying angels.'" 1 Hold your tong ue, Davy, will you," replied Mr. Seyl mour.  Alh, if my poor son Tom lived, he would bejust such another; these were his ideas too. What bloodthirsty looks Brown is giving himll. d--n the fellow."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       93 "But," continued the speaker, "as the gentleman has thought proper to malign my conduct and the conduct of my friend here, to-day, I will confine myself to answering his personal attack."  "Here every neck was strained forward, and so anxious were all present to hear what was to follow, that not a sound was heard but the speaker's voice.] "The gentleman has been pleased to attribute motives to myself and my friend, for the course we have taken here to-day, which could only influen ce low and grovelling minds. He has gone out of his way to vilify the religion we pro- fess. No gentleman who has heard him, but; must acknowl- edge that there is only one answer to all this. Flinging] back, then, these foul calumnies to their corrupt source, I brand them as lies, and he who uttered them, a reckless liar."    , Great was the confusion that followed Henry's words, in the midst of which, the noble chairman announced the meeting as dissolved, and dissolved himself so quickly that the little toadies lead not time to pass him a vote of thanks for his dignified conduct in the chair. As for Brown, he lay back in his seat, actually devoured by passion,--his face white, his eyes rolling from side to side, his hands clenched, and his teeth gnawing his under lip. It was not until a friend had whispered to him, that he seemed to recover his presence of mind. Then a demon joy lighted up his features, and, still unable to speak, he shook his clenched hand at Henry Daly, who seemed the only person who remained cool and self-possessed. As for O'elly, he appeared to be nearly in as great a rage as Brown. "By heaven! Henry," he exclaimed, "you have treated me badly; I thought it was understood between us, that you were to answer the fellow by argument, and that I, at least, was to have my share of the fighting, but you have taken both departments on yourself with a vengeance." "My dear Anthony," replied his friend, "come along out of this, and we will talk the matter over." So saying he took O'Kelly's arm and proceeded with him out of the courthouse; Anthony looking, all the while, like a sulky school boy, cheated out of his half holiday.   "      THE DALYS Of DALYSTOWI. Many of the gentlemen's servants, known to the police, had free egress and ingress, and those, delighted at being objects of interest, kept continually passing in and out, reporting bits and scraps of the proceedings to the eager crowd. The moment Henry sat down, the whole body of those amateur telegraphs rushed out and gave- various and glow. ing versions of the scene which had just taken place. So, when Henry and Anthony made their appearance, cheer after cheer rent the air; hats and caps were thrown up with. out regard to their future destination; and the people rushing forward, shouted: "chair him, boys, chair him." At the risk of being torn limb from limb by his rough ad- mirers, Henry attempted to resist this honor; but despite all his efforts, he was lifted from the ground, and on the shoulders of a young Hercules. Then there was a fresh burst of cheering, and a fresh shower of hats and caps. At this moment Brown, surrounded by his friends, made his appearance on the steps of the courthouse; when the crowd caught sight of him, their cheers were changed to yells and groans; those on the outside rushed back towards him with the intention, it would seem, of doing him some violence, but the police forming with fixed bayonets, step- ped between them, and barred their further progress. Brown had not quailed before the menacing attitude of the crowd; on the contrary it seemed to revive his spirits. He stamped his foot in defiance, and spat at them as they advanced; then pointing after Henry he said, " your cham- pion shall pay me for all this." Henry Daly was not released from his lofty position until the crowd had conducted him to the hotel, into which he was glad to escape. Then a few more cheers, and the crowd is gone. Lord C   seeks the privacy of his car- riage, and is driven home. O'Roarke and Tim slink out of the town; the toadies and place-hunters disappear, and in a short time, the little town of C resumes its usual or- derly, quiet look. Towards evening Mr. MacDonough, who had been detain- ed in town on some business, might be seen walking up the main street. There was a sneer of contempt on his thick lips.   THE DALYS OF DALYST         95    / "What d-n fools they are, to be sure," he muttered, i from the peer to the clown." Anthony O'Kelly had joined his friends at the hotel, in which the latter had taken refuge from his admirers.   , "What's the next move Henry," he said, "Brown will, of course, send a friend to you. Now the quarrel is as much mine as yours." "Allowing what you say to be the case, Anthony," re- plied young Daly, " you will still acknowledge that he can but fight one of us at a time; and as I have put the onus on him, I must be the first he will honor." "Yes, sir, I acknowledge you have checkmated me, but if you shoot Brown before I can pay him my portion of the debt, I will never forgive you. Was I not right in saying, that he was pitted against us?" "I saw it," replied Henry, "long before you spoke. I saw that when the clique found they could not silence us, they determined. to hound their bully at us. For the first time in my life, I have given a man the lie. I trust it will be the last; yet under no circumstance, will I retract one 'ord I have said to-day." "Certainly not," replied O'Kelly. 'I am very anxious," continued Henry, "that Brown should send a friend to me here; for on no account would I have my father know anything of this business. Brown ias plenty of friends in town, and it is not likely he will lose time, so we will remain here, Anthony, for some hours, at least. Who do you think he will send?" "I would not be surprised if it was Frank Seymour," re- plied O'Kelly. "I would be very glad," said Henry, "that he was selected, for though wild enough, he is a gentleman. His poor brother Tom and I, were chums at college; but Frank, I never met much.'" "He is a fine, dashing fellow," replied O'Kelly, "and though I am sure he does not care one fig for Brown, still if the other asks him to act as his second, I suppose Frank will not be able to resist the temptation of having a finger in the fun when it is going on." Nowadays, it may appear strange that the magistrates   96       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. did not interfere to prevent a breach of the peace, but thoughc duelling had, to a great extent, fallen into disuse in Ireland, somewhere about the time I write of, anld was no longer considered a necessary part of a young gentle-. man's education, still there was enoudgh of the chivalry of old times remaining to make it be regarded with very leni- ent eyes. "We were out, ourselves," said old Billy Warburton, "rand why shouldn't we let the voung fellows now enjoy themnselves?" "Kelly's last remark was just made when the door open- ed and in walked the very gentleman they had been talk- ing, about. He seemed a well-looking young fellow, with, wlhat is called in Ireland, a devil-may-care, good humored look. He shook hands with Daly and O'Kelly. "I had hard work to' escape from the old gentleman," he said, " lie has been hunting for me in every quarter." "Not in the church, Seymour," said Anthony. "No faith, my father would never look for me there," he repliedl, "I am sorry to say, Daly, that I have come on a very unpleasant business." "You come, I presume, from Mr. Brown," said Henry. "Y's, I assure you I would prefer that it was to some one else 1 liad to deliver a hostile message." "Oh make no apology," answered Henry, "I am only too glad that Mr. Brown has selected so unexceptionable a friend. I will take for gralnted the message delivered, and refer you at once to lmy friend, O'Kelly, with whom I will now leave you." And bowing to both gentlemen, Henry Daly left the room. "Well," said Seymour, "I never saw a greater difference between any two men. Daly, I confess, takes the matter as a gentleman should, but Brown, why lie is like a Bengal tiger thirsting for blood. I suppose, O'Kelly, we have not much to do but appoint time and place. Brown will ac- cept of no apology." "He is not likely to be offered one," replied O'Kelly. "Then,"' said Seymour, "as neither party is willing to give or accept an apology, we had better arrange time and place. Where do you propose to open the ball?"   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      97 "I am for Ballygill," replied O'Kelly. "There are nice level fields there, near the bridge." "It is what Sir Lucius O'Trigger would call ' a sweet spot,' " replied Seymour. "Do you know it was there the old gen- tleman and your father fought?" "So it was, by George," said Kelly. "He has the bullet in his leg yet," replied Seymour; and when he gets the gout, he complains that ' O'Kelly's limb troubles him more than the other.' .What hour do you say? * Will six suit you?" "Perfectly," replied O'Kelly, "I do not think we could have good shooting-light earlier." "I must try and get, Brown to eat his breakfast, before starting," remarked Seymour, "he is entirely too savage to bring, fasting." "Oh, please the fates," said O'Kelly, "we will tame him, when we get him there." "When he and Daly have settled, then my turn will come on.- By heaven," continued O'Kelly, reddening with passion, " he shall fight with me; and I tell you, Seymour, that if it was any one of his clique that came here to-day, as his friend, I would have asked him to take Brown's place, so that the whole business could be settled at the same time." "I do not see, O'Kelly," replied Seymour, growing a little red in his turn, "how your fighting with his second could satisfy your claim on Brown." "Not in your case, Seymour," replied O'Kelly, " but had it been one of his own clique that he sent,-(I believe, on my honor, they were one and all afraid to come,)-I would sooner have a shot at him than at Brown himself. Mean, sneaking cowards, as they are, Brown, at all events, has the courage to avow, and the manliness to defend the senti- ments of his Orange heart." "I am very glad, at all events," replied Seymour," that you think it unnecessary to put a hole through my body. Dis- tance, we can settle on the ground, so I will not detain you from your friend, who may have some matters to arrange with you. Good bye, O'Kelly, and God grant that all will end well to-morrow." 7 5.                      .   98       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER X. A DUEL, AND ITS RESULTS. When Frank Seymour took his departure, Henry joined his friend, and was informed by him of the arrangements just made. It was then settled that Henry should acom- pany O'Kelly to Crearen, at the same time sending his horse back to Dalystown, by a messenger, who would carry a note to Mr. Daly, from his son, stating that he was going to O'Kelly's place, and would not return home before the fol- lowing day. The messenger was also instructed to deliver a verbal message to Tom Gallaher, directing Tom to bring to Crearen, Henry's hunter. "It is as well," remarked O'Kelly, "that we should have two good horses on the ground, lest the police should take it into their heads to interfere; but we shall travel in my gig. It will be the more convenient way to carry the pis- tols; besides, the exercise of riding might make your hand unsteady." "For heaven's sake, Anthony," replied Henry, "don't speak that way or you will make me look upon myself as a murderer, in intent, at least." "You will have to defend your life to-morrow," replied O'Kelly gravely, " before one who is a murderer in heart, and who thirsts for your blood; and you must do it as best you may, within the laws of honor." As soon as the messenger was dispatched to Dalystown, the two friends left the town of T for Crearen. An- thony's brothers were still at Salt Hill, so that Mrs. and M1r. O'Kelly were the only persons whom Henry expected to find at his friend's house. Festus O'Kelly, Anthony's father, was a gentleman of about sixty years of age. Silent and grave, and of manners courteous but distant, he mixed little with his own class, nor was he popular amongst them; but there was another   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      99 class that actually dreaded his presence, namely: those styled by the country people, " buckeens," or half-gentle- men. No matter how free one of these might make with others, the moment he came into the presence of Festus O'Kelly, he felt his assurance, like Bob Acre's courage, "oozing out at the palms of his hands." His studied and freezing politeness, his cold haughty eye, and his proud, thin lip squashed a buckeen; yet, in his in- tercourse with the peasantry, he was kind and affable. The fact was, he never forgot the former splendor-of his ancient house, or ceased to mourn for it, until that which, under favorable circumstances, would have been but proper dig- nity of. manner, had grown into a cold, haughty pride. Before the sun had gone down that evening,'the news of Henry Daly's intended duel with Brown had transpired and spread far and near. This was to be expected; but another circumstance, rather strange, was, that the time and place of meeting had also become known. The principals and seconds thought themselves the only persons acquainted with the details, and, most certainly, they had not divulged them. As the Irish are said to have an innate love for fighting, perhaps sympathy had something to do in the matter. Like the war horse, they " scented the battle from afar," and, even before Henry's messenger had reached Dalystown, the news had found its way into the servants' hall; but was carefully concealed from those most inter- ested in it. Mr. Daly felt somewhat uneasy, when he received Hen- ry's note, though he made no remark on the subject to his daughter. She, too, felt, as she afterwards mentioned, a pre- sentiment of coming evil, wherefore, she knew not. But even had Mr. Daly been made acquainted with the facts of his son's quarrel with Brown, he could not in those days, with honor to himself or Henry, have interfered. This news caused the most intense excitement among the peasantry of the neighborhood, and was the subject of every cottage fireside for miles around. Some dreaded that Henry should fall, and their-grief at the supposed calamity was mingled with vows of vengeance against Brown; oth-   130      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ers, again, looked at, to them, the bright side of the pic- ture, and enjoyed, in anticipation, the Orange bully falling beforle their young champion. "In the mean time, Daly and his friend, O'Kelly, retired early to rest, the latter accompanying Henrv to his room. "These are the pistols you will use, Henry," said Anthony, opening a mahogany case, "I will bring them to my own room to examine, and see that they are all right; you have some letters to write, you say, there are pens and paper, I will return again." Left alone, Henry sat down to write those sad letters of farewell, which O'Kelly was to deliver, in case of his death. As he paused, collecting his thoughts for his painful task, a deep sorrow overshadowed his features, and his hand shook so that he was obliged to lay down the pen; for there came to him a vision of his father, in his desolate old age,- of two mourning figures, sitting in the old parlor of Dalys- town; then he thought of another,-would she, too, mourn for him? Yes, in those solemn moments, he knew that he was beloved; the doubts of the lover vanished, and she ap- peared before him in all the purity of her young love, weep- ing over his early grave; and, burying his face in his hands, the big tears fell through his 'fingers on the paper before him, and he sobbed aloud. His own grief startled him. He arose and walked about the room. "This is unmanly weakness," he said. "What would even Anthony suppose, did he find me so? Father in heaven," he continued, "I am unworthy to pray in my own behalf, but if I fall to-morrow, oh, comfort those who will mourn for me." He went to the window and let down the sash; the moon, which had been hidden by some dark clouds, suddenly emerged from them, and flung her calm light into the room. It came like a messenger of peace, and he hailed it as a good omen. The night air, too, revived his spirits; his eyes, a moment before dimmed with tears, lighted up with the courage of his race, and the trembling lips became firm in their expression. "Cold, murderous villain," he said, ,( thirsting for my life, you shall never know what anguish you have caused me."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     " Just then, O'Kelly entered the room. "What, Henry," he said, " making sonnets to the moon? I thought you were about to write some letters."' "Yes, Anthony, but as I sat down to do so, the thought of my poor father and Emily quite overcame me; and, faith, if you had been a few moments sooner, you would have found me, I believe, crying." "And if I did, Henry," replied his friend, "I would not have thought the worse of you; but tut, man, nothing shall happen to you, I have made up my mind that you are to shoot Brown." "God forbid," said Henry. "Well, I will be satisfied," answered O'Kelly, "that you wing him. Do you like how this pistol is balanced?" i "Oh it will do very well," replied Henry carelessly. ". Henry," said his friend, " you must not go into this business in a careless manner, you must take every honorable means to defend your life; for we know that the man you are about to meet is a professed duellist. Let me see now; holv do you intend to stand?." "By my valor, Sir Lucius," said Henry smiling, as he-put himself into a position, "I will stand edgeways." "-Right," said O'Kelly, "you must leave him as small a i mark as you can.5" "Egad," replied Henry, still quoting Bob Acres, "I will make myself small enough." "After the scene to-day," remarked O'Kelly, "Brown will drink hard to-night, and have an unsteady nerve in the morning. And now, Henry, write your letters, and then get to bed. Nothing like a good night's rest before going on the ground. What are you smiling at? ." - "I was thinking, Anthony, that it would be a bad busi- ness if I resembled Bob Acres half as much as you do, Sir Lucius O'Trigger. If Mr. Brown's hand does not shake, Anthony, you will see them at home; tell them that my last thought was of them,-my last unworthy prayer for them."              . O'Kelly made no reply, but kept looking down at the pistol he held in his hand, while the muscles of his face twitched with suppressed emotion.   102      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "You promise me, Anthony," repeated Henry. "Oh d-n it, I do," he replied, starting off and bustling about the room. "By George, I'll shoot some of those ras. cals in the morning."  Here a servant entered the room to announce the arrival of Tom Gallaher, with Mr. Daly's horse. "Tell him," said Henry, " to come here; but stay, where is he now?" "In the stable, sir," replied the man. 't Well, I will go there to him," said Henry, and the ser- vant withdrew. "What do you want to see him for?" asked O'Kelly. "I am anxious to find out," replied Henry, " if my father has heard anything of this business. I will be back in a few moments." He found Tom in the stable, grooming the horse, and calling him into the yard he asked: "Did my father send any message by you?" "No sir," replied Tom. "Nor Miss Daly?" "No sir." Henry paused a moment, and then turned to leave the yard, saying to Tom, " that is all I wanted to ask you." But Tom called after him, "Mr Henry, sir." "Well, Tom, what is it?" asked Henry. "Oh, Mr. Henry, is it true?" "Is what true .?" said Henry turning quickly around, "Oh what's in every one's mouth. Oh sir, are you going to fight Mr. Brown 8?" "Did my father hear anything of this?'" asked Henry turning pale. "Never a word, sir; who'd go tell him the likes 8 But I see now that it's true. Oh, wirrah, wirrah." Henry, who dreaded a scene, perceiving that Tom's grief, if not quickly checked, would soon merge into the Irish cry, went over to him and catching him by the arm, said:, "What do you mean, sir, by this nonsense? You must have been drinking, Tom, and lost any little reason you ever had." "The never a blessed drop entered my lips to-day," re-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      103 plied Tom. But sure, I met a raven on the road, as I kem along, and the death-watch is in my ear all the day. Oh, wirrah, wirrah." Henry was now really vexed. However, he took the on- ly course likely to check Tom's grief. "Why, you infernal booby," he said, " what is the matter with you? I did intend that you should bring on Mr. O'Kel- ly's horse and my own in the morning. But we must get one of the servants here, for we do not want a blubbering coward." "And will you take me along with you, Master'Henry?" asked Tom. "Yes, if I see you can conduct yourself." "Whoop " cried Tom, now totally forgetful of the raven and the death watch, in the anticipated delight of being present at a duel. "Well, continued Henry, as he moved off to enter the house, " have the horses ready at five, and when you have Fox made up, go to your bed.;' "'Maybe," soliloquised Tom, as he entered the stable, "I won't have a two year old* in the heel of my fist for him, af he knocks but a button off your coat." A fine morning, was it, as Henry Daly and Anthony O'Kelly drove down the avenue of Crearen.. The crows cawed in the ash trees and the thrush and robin sang mer- rily in the young plantations. It seemed to Henry a prof- anation to disturb the calm beauty of nature, with man's petty passions. There is something very beautiful in the first hours of the young day: all nature starting into life, fresh and joyous, as when God said: " let there be light; " and even the .withered heart, touched with this heavenly bloom, becomes forgetful, for a while, of the graves of earth. Night, in its solemn beauty, speaks to the soul, of the past and the future, rather than of the present. Lost loves, hopes and joys, flit on the shadowy shore and beckon to us;  but morning comes, robed in the fresh glory of existence, and, like a young, blushing bride, woos us to present hap- piness. An hour's drive brought the two friends within view of  z acef stone.  104:      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. the place settled on for the meeting; but, to their great astonishment, the bridge and fields adjointg were crowded with people. "By the Lord Harry," exclaimed O'Kelly, "this is too bad, the whole country seems to have turned out. How on earth did they discover where we were to meet? It is not likely that Brown's party would let it be known, or be anxious for their presence." "It is very annoying," said Henry, " what are we to do?" "We must go somewhere else," replied O'Kelly, "Brown would never fight with such a mob around him, and who could blame him, for  I "For, if anything happened to me, the people would deal roughly with him, you think," said Henry. "All the police in Galway, could not save him, Henry," answered O'Kelly. "Ah, here the other party come-a whole troop of them, by George." As he spoke, about a dozen horsemen crossed the bridge from the opposite side. When within a short distance of the two friends, they drew up and seemed to be holding a council of war. In a few moments, Frank Seymoiur rode up to O'Kelly's gig. He seemed excited, and after a hur- ried salute, he said:          i "This is cursedly annoying, O'Kelly; who could have let these fellows know anything of our arrangements . \ Anthony did not like the tone in which this question was put, so he replied, somewhat sternly, " if sir, you ask me that question, supposing that I will be able to answer it, you are much mistaken. Their presence here is as great a surprise to Daly and myself as it is to your party; though, thank God, we don't fear it." 8eymour's face flushed as he replied, "I do not for a mo' ment suppose, O'Kelly, that you or your friend had any knowledge of their coming; but what are we to do? Brown will not, nor would I allow him, to fight in the face of such a mob." "You have plenty of horses among you," replied O'Kelly, let you and your friend mount the two best. Fortunately, myself and Daly have come prepared for a thing of this kind. We can cross the country by different routes, and meet at the wood of Doone."   lI.      TTHE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN      105 Seymour at once acquiesced in this, and returning to his party, he and Brown, with one or two gentlemen, equally well mounted, set off for the place pitched upon. Then Henrv and Anthony mounted their horses, the latter carry- ing the pistol case which Tom Gallaher handed to him out of the gig, and wheeling-round, they leaped the wall bound- ing the road, and took a different direction in order to mis- lead those they were leaving behind. Up to this, the crowd had remained immovable on the bridge and in the fields adjoining, but after watching for a few moments the direction taken by the two parties, a sim- ultaneous rush was made by the people toward a large bog, adjoining the road. "Hurra, boys," shouted Tom Gallaher, heading the crowd, in a few long bounds, "Hurra, they're off for the wood of Doone; let's cross the bog and we will be afore them, do their best." In the mean time, Henry and Anthony kept on their course in a zigzag line. Skirting the bog for about two miles, then turning to the right, they made direct for the wood. Brown and his party, in avoiding the bog in the opposite direction, had about the same distance to travel, and the consequence was that both parties arrived at the wood at the same time. But how great was their vexation to find the crowd there before them. Henry, who happened to be quite close to Brown, when the latter reined up his horse, saw his swarthy face flush with passion at this second interruption, and Seymour, again coming forward, inquired of O'Kelly what they were to do. "This part of the country is so full of those d-d bogs,' he said, that we will be met, whichever side we turn."  "Take things cool, Seymour," replied Anthony, '" your i friend shall not be disappointed. Rather than have him so, I give you my honor Daly shall fight him in his own parlor at Brown Lodge. But wait a moment until I speak to these nimble-legged gentlemen, and try and get them to let us fight this quarrel out in peace and quiet." He then advanced to the crowd. "Boys," he said, " how- ever you found it out, it is evident you know the business we are here for; but I think I can tell you something you   106      THE DALYS OF DALYS*OOWN. don't know 'or seem to remember, Mr. Brown will not fight in your presence, and if you continue to interrupt us, it will be said that Mr. Henry Daly, fearing to meet Mr. Brown on equal terms, had you collected to intimidate him." "Who dare say it, sir?" said a young fellow, stepping forward. "Those, James Delany, that you cannot stop,'" replied OjKelly, " and who will be but too glad to have a coloring fo& their lies, which your conduct is giving to them." And Anthony looked full in the faces of two of Brown's friends who had ridden over to listen. "Now, we will leave this place, for some other," coatin. ued O'Kelly, " and I ask you, if you would not wish that dishonor should fall upon Mr. Daly's name, not to follow us." "We will do your bidding, sir," replied the young man whom Anthony had addressed as James Delany. "Not a man of us shall follow, and God speed ye and protect them that ever sided with the poor man. Go your ways, sir, but, Mr. Anthony, bring him back safe to us, or ( and he moved close to O'Kelly's horse, whilst a dark scowl came to his face,) revengehim like a soldier, as you are." Killure Castle, a lonely spot, far removed from any road was the next place fixed upon, and no time was lost inset- ting out for it; O'Kelly and Daly leading, Brown and his party following, at a little distance. "Curse this infernal galloping," growled Brown, " it will unsteady my hand." "' So much the better," replied one of his friends, "it will give Daly a chance." "A chance," replied Brown, turning almost fiercely on his friend, " yes, I fear he will have that chance, but, by , not one that I can avoid giving to him." It was near nine o'clock when Killure Castle was reached, and when the horses were secured in the old ruin, without further delay, the, seconds commenced to load the pistols, in each other's presence. The time this occupied was spent by Brown in walking restlessly about, and switching the grass on each side of him. Henry Daly stood apart, his arms folded, his features   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      107 calm; at one moment, a look of contempt seemed to cross them as his eyes followed the restless motions of his ad- versary. "What distance shall we put them up at, O'Kelly . " asked Seymour, " twelve paces, eh?" Brown heard the remark and called out: "What are you talking about, Seymour? twelve paces be d-d. Seven is quite distant enough." "Mr. Brown," replied his second, " if you attempt to in. terfere I shall leave the ground. Mr. O'Kelly is the chal- lenged party, and as such can determine the distance. In no case have you a right to speak, unless through your second." Brown bit his lip ; " well then," he said, "be quick a tleast." Henry beckoned O'Kelly over to him. "Anthony," he said," let the distance be seven paces, or five, if he wishes it." ("Why, to tell you the truth, Henry," replied O'Kellv, "I am for putting you up at a short distance, especially as you are cool; and Brown, I see by him, is in such a rage that his hand must shake. I will now, Mr. Seymour," he called out, "measure seven paces, and, when our men are placed, you will be good enough to give the word."' The ground is measured; the principals placed in their positions. ' Mind, Henry, ' whispers Anthony, " aim below the hip." 'Gentlemen,) says Seymour, in a clear yoice, a the word shall be one--two-three.'-at three, both shall fire. Are you ready? )' '* Yes," they answer. Then says Seymour, in a slow voice-" one--two-three." At the word three, the report of Henry's pistol is heard, but Brown's has missed fire. "Curses on you," he exclaimed, dashing it to the ground, "quick, Seymour, another pistol." The seconds advance. "For God sake," whispers O'Eelly to Henry, as he hands the latter a fresh pistol, " take good aim, you fired too high; remember the fellow is thirsting foryour blood. Below the hip, Henry, aim below the hip." Again the seconds retire; again Seymour repeats 'one-- two-three."   108      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN This time there are two reports ery staggers back a pace but, recovering himself, he again stands in his position, while Brown, with a yell of rage and pain, lets his pistol drop from his hand, which falls powerless and bleeding by his side. O'Kelly rushes forward to Henry. A deadly pale ness is spreading over the features of the latter. "I am hit, Anthony," he says, "remember your promise; oh, my poor father," and he falls, fainting, into the arms of his friend. CHAPTER XI. It was evening as Godfrey Daly, with a troubled step, walked about his drawing room. The sun had not set, and its slanting beams fell upon the floor and weaved golden threads through Emily Daly's rich brown hair, as the young girl sat at the open window, her fair head resting on her little white hand. From copse and lofty tree, came the songs of birds. The bee, unwearied, still buzzed from flower to flower, and the mottled butterfly, tired of play, rested amid the beds, from which each passing breeze went laden with sweet perfume. But the beauty and harmony of the hour was unnoticed by Godfrey Daly and his daughter. As the former crossed and re-crossed the room, he frequently stopped, stood for moments, gazing on the carpet at his feet, while his pale lips quivered with suppressed emotion. Sometimes low sobs met his ear and he hurried to where Emily sat, patted her head gently, and then again resumed his walk. But at the slightest noise, on the stairs or landing, both started and looked towards the closed door in breathless anxiety. At   THE bALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      109 length it opened and an elderly gentleman entered the room. Let me pause to look at him a moment, for he is one whom I have loved. He wore a black body coat; his vest, small clothes, and silk stockings were of the same color, and on his highly polished shoes were silver buckles. His white hair, plentifully powdered and tied in a queu, hung down over the collar of his coat. His years were seventy-five, yet-his step was still elastic, his cheeks ruddy and his eyes bright. There was a beauty in the old man's face, for in his heart was a stream of gentle benevolence, whose pure waters had kept green his ripe old age. "Well, doctor," said Mr. Daly, hurrying towards him and taking his hand, while Emily, .with parted lips, listened for the words which were to follow. "My dear friend," answered Dr. Kelly, "Henry, at pres- ent, does not suffer great pain, though I had to inflict much upon him. Emily, you can now return to his room, but speak as little as possible. After what he has suffered he must be exhausted and may sleep. Sit down, my friend," continued the doctor, addressing Mr. Daly, pointing to a chair, as he took one for himself. "Oh, doctor, have you discovered the ball?." asked Mr. Daly. "No, I am sorry to say I have not ;" replied the doctor, "this second attempt to do so has failed, and there is too much inflammation about the wound at present to repeat it." "Merciful God!?" exclaimed Mr. Daly, I' tell me, doctor, what consequences you foresee or apprehend from this." "Godfrey Daly," replied the old man, "I will tell you, and tell you truly, not alone because I know you fo be a brave man, but also for that I have seen you in years past, when you and I were younger than we are now, mindful from whom the bolt sped that laid you prostrate." Air. Daly covered his face with his hand. "Merciful God," he murmured, "s are the sins of my youth to be again visited on the young and good?." "Tut, tut, Godfrey," said the doctor, "speak not thus. Blind worms that we are, let us not question the means an Almighty Wisdom takes to reward or punish us. Trust to his mercy that Henry will be spared to you."   "O      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Bless you, doctor, for saying so," replied Mr. Daly. "Yes," .continued Dr. Kelly, " there is room to hope, and cause to fear. The ball entered at the hip, and took a down. ward direction; this makes me hope that it is lodged in the fleshy part of the thigh; if so, there is not much to appre- hend. But if it has passed to the opposite ide, touching, perhaps, the coating of the stomach in its course, there is much to fear." "Much to fear?" repeated Mr. Daly. "Yes," said the other, in that case I would dread mortifi. cation." ,' But, can nothing be done to guard against this?" ex- claimed Mr. Daly, "I will send to Dublin for the first physi. cians to assist you, doctor." "It would be useless for you to do so," replied the doctor. "Tlhey could do nothing were they here. We must wait events, and keep Henry as quiet as possible in the mean. time." "When may the symptoms you dread appear, doctor?' "I trust, never; but the danger. will not be past for ten days, unless  "' "Unless what, doctor?" broke in the poor father, to whom ten days' suspense seemed an age. "Unless the ball gives some evidence of its situation be- fore then," replied the doctor. '"If it is lodged in the flesh, most likely the part near it will become inflamed. In that case we would know where to look for it, and be able to ex- * tract it.") "Oh! may God in his mercy spare my noble boy," said Mr. Daly. " Doctor, you must stay with us altogether, un- til those dreaded ten days are past." "I will be with you, Godfrey, as much as I can; but there are others who have a claim on my time." "Oh, no doubt-no doubt," replied Mr. Daly. "I have spoken foolishy; grief is selfish, my good doctor, and malkes us heedless of the suferings of others." 4"You have heard, Godfrey, I suppose," said Dr. Kellyi "the origin of poor Henry's quarrel with Brown?" "Yes; Anthony O'Kelly told me all about it. Henry acted quite right. My brave boy was not to Abe put downi   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN.      1" by an Orange clique, or their murderous champion. Hear me," he continued, rising from his chair, and drawing his tall figure up to its full height, whilst a fierce fire shot from his eyes, "if my child dies, I swear"-- "Stay, man! stay your rash vow, that might well bring a curse upon your house! Listen; the man you would make it against will be either a cripple or a corpse within forty- eight hours. As I came here, I met Dr. Whistler, coming 4from him. Whistler tells me that Brown's hand is fright- fully shattered, and unless he submits to have it amputated -which he objects to-he cannot survive. In any case, the physician dreads lock-jaw, in consequence of the mus- cles of the hand being so torn. Shame!-shame! Godfrey Daly, that I should have to tell you this, to keep you from vows of vengeance and sin." Long before the doctor ceased speaking, Mr. Daly had fallen back into his seat, his head drooping, and the fire gone from his eye. 'Forgive me, James," he said; 'pardon me, my old friend. I had forgotten myself." Miss Daly here entered the room. She was smiling through her tears, and came to announce that Henry had I fallen into a tranquil sleep. "Who is with him now, love?" asked her father. "Edward Vaughan," she replied; "and I am returning. I only ran down to tell you this good news." So saying, she left the room. "Who is that boy?." inquired Doctor Kelly. "He re- mained in the room while I was examining Henry's [wound, and as I left he followed me out to the lobby and gave me such a look of anxious inquiry, whilst tears streamed down, his face. Who is he? 17 a"I e is a nephew of Lyols, the attorney," replied Mr. "Bartly Lyons?" said the doctor. '* Yes,'7 answered Mr. Daly. "'Where did the fellow get so decent a nephew, I won- der?" said the doctor, '4 and how did he come among you?" Mr. Daly slightly bltshed as he answered, "Henry had solume business with Lyons, and met this lad in his office   "2      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. having taken quite a fancy to him, and suspecting, I be. lieve, that Lyons was not over kind to him, he brought him on a visit, in order that he should run about and enjoy himself for a little." "Ah," said the doctor, " that was so like Henry's warm heart and fine impulses; I am no judge of faces, if this boy is not worthy of any kindness shown to him.'" It was late that night wlfen Doctor Kelly and Mr. Daly retired to rest; sleep, neither of them did, for, in a meas- ure, the good old doctor was as uneasy about his patient as Godfrey Daly himself. Emily would not hear of leaving her brother, so a sofa was wheeled into the room on which she might lie down. Edward Vaughan, at the request of Henry himself,'had left him, and promised to go to bed, but long afterS the house was still, Emily thought she heard some one at the door; she opened it, and there stood Edward. "Do not be hard waith me," said the boy, a' but I cannot rest. How is he?." "He sleeps, Edward, but the least noise disturbs him. Go to bed like a good boy," she replied. "Oh I would not disturb him for worlds," he answered. When it is morning, may I not come here?" "Yes," said Emily. "It is a long time off," he murmured, " but I will wait," and he stole noiselessly away. When E mily had again closed the door, Henrv was awake, he moved in his bed, and his sister was in a mo- ment at his side. "Who was that speaking to you Emily?" he inquired. "Edward," she replied. "How do you feel, dear Henry!' "I am in pain, love, since I awoke." "Shall I call the doctor 2?" "No-no he answered, " he told me I was to expect pain. Indeed he seemed to think the absence of it would be an unfavorable symptom." "You will be soon well, dear Henry." "I trust so, sweet sister, I would not I should leave you, and my poor father. What is the hour?" "It is just two," she answered.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      113 cEmily, love," he said, "lie down, and I will try and compose myself to sleep again." She stooped and kissed his cheek, and then moved softly to the sofa. For a short time she rested upon it, and then slid gently on her knees. Long and fervent were the prayers of that pure heart, for as the morning's light streamed in through the half clos- ed shutters, it fell upon the form of the young girl, still kneeling; her head bowed, and her arms crossed over her virgin breast.- "Nevertheless, oh father," she murmured, "Thy will be done.' Three days had now gone by since Henry was wounded, and the ball still remained unextracted, and its situation unknown, when towards evening he complained of great pain below his hip, in the fleshy part of his leg, and on ex-, amination Dr. Kelly gave it as his opinion, that they had at length discovered the hidden enemy. Another physician, Dr. Whistler, who was in attendance on' Mr. Brown, was called in, who concurred with Dr. Kelly, as to the position of the ball, and the necessity for an im- mediate operation. "We will give you some pain, Mr. Daly," said Dr. Whist- ler, "but a man who stood before Brown, and the 'flying angels,' won't mind that much." "They tell me doctor," said Henry "that you are in at. tendance on him, how is he . " "Oh he is getting on nicely," replied the doctor, " since the amputation of his hand." "Good God," exclaimed Henry, "I did not hear of this before. I have maimed him for life." "By Jove,'" replied the doctor, " some people say that you did a very good thing when you spoiled his shooting, though here's my friend, O'Kelly, who, I fear, will never forgive me for the hand I had in making him lose all chance of being shot by Brown. Look at him, Dr. Kelly, does he not give nLe very unforgiving looks?" Thus chatted away Dr. Whistler, pretending, with pro- fessional tact, to make light of the nice operation Dr. 8   "4      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Kelly had confided to his hand, for the latter loved Henr- as a son, and dreaded to trust his own nerve. As Emily was about to be led from the room by Mr. Daly, Henry said, "you will return, father, will you not'?" "' Yes, my child," replied Mr. Daly. "Would it not be better," remarked Dr. Whistler, to Henry, " that your father should not be present." c' I would wish to have him with me, doctor," answered Henry, "if you have no objection." "' Oh not the slightest," said the doctor. Mr. Daly quickly returned and sat down by his son's bedside; his face was deadly pale. Henry stretched out his hand to him, and he clasped it between both his own. The operation commenced, and although the knife cut deep and the forceps caught the shrinking veins and arteries no moan escaped Henry's lip, nor did his father perceive the slight- est tremor in the hand resting within his own. All through the operation, he kept his eyes fixed with a fond, encourag- ing look upon his father's face, and seemed proud to let the old man see how bravely he could suffer. At length, to the joy of all present, the ball was skilfully extracted, the wound dressed, and a drink of weak wine and water given to the patient. "I will not attempt to portray the feelings of Godfrey Daly during the operation, or when he saw, as he believed, the danger which Dr. Kelly had dreaded, past. "You shall do no more mischief," said the latter, taking the bullet between his fingers and walking to the open window. "What are you going to do with it, doctor ." asked An- thony O'Kelly. "I am going to throw the devil's lead out of the window, Anthony," he replied. "Oh don't," said the other," give it to me." "Yes,' replied the doctor, "and have you shooting some one else with it. No, no, Mr. Anthony, make your own pills, Inam told you are a firsc-rate hand at the work." So saying, he flung the ball out of the window. "Bad as they are," replied O'Kelly, laughing, " they never killed half so many as your doctor's pills."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      115 "People don't use them quite so much, Anthony, said the  old doctor, " perhaps that accounts for it." i CHAPTER XII. IN WHCH THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO A RIBBON LODGE, IN SES- SION; ALSO, TO A CHARACTER, TERRIBLY IRISH; BEING RAISED, i FOSTERED AND FITTED BY THE PATERNAL GOVERNMENT OF' ,ENGLAND, FOR THE EXCLUSIVE BENEFIT OF THAT PART OF HS MAJESTY'S DOMNIONS. In a cabin, standing in the middle of a patch of unculti- rated land, surrounded on every side by a large deep bog, on a dark stormy night, in the month of September, were four individuals, three of whom sat at a fire composed of peat and bog deal. The cheerful blaze lighted up the small room and revealed, distinctly, the features of its occupants. On opposite sides of the hearth-grate there was none-sat, or rather crouched an old man and woman; both seemed bent with age, and    [ the woman's skin was shriveled and smoke-dried. She mumbled to herself, seemingly taking no notice of the con- versation going on between the old man, her husband, and another person who sat on a chair, the only one in the room, Opposite to the fire. There was a strong contrast between these two men. He whllo sat on the chair, with his arms folded and his huge limbs stretched lazily out, was in the prime of manhood. On his brawny shoulders, was a large frieze overcoat, thrown back in front, its long skirt resting on the ground. He worel no waistcoat, and his shirt, unbuttoned, left to view his   "6      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. bull throat and broad, rugged chest. In features, he was all the brute. On his head was an old hat, slouched down so far over his shaggy eyebrows, that the inside rim rested on his flat nose, almost concealing, altogether, his dull, vul- ture eyes. On the contrary, the old man was of diminutive stature; his small, shriveled body was, as I have said, bent with age; yet, when in motion, his step was light and catlike. His legs, from the knees down, were bare, disclosing knotted, cordlike muscles running down his small calves. His fore- head was low but intellectual; his nose, high and hooked; his eyes bright and piercing; but the whole expression of his face was in his mouth, and so damnable waahe smile of those thin lips, that the burly ruffian, who now encoun. tered it, averted his head with a shudder of fear. "Monam an dhoul,* " he said, " but you must have got that sweet grin of yours from the devil himself." "I'm much obliged to you, Mr. Maloney," replied the old man, " and I'll be tender in contradicting you, for belike, you're well acquainted with the gentleman you mention, he, he, he." "Will you stop that. infernal grinning 2?" replied the oth- er, " and look at a person like a Christian. What o'clock is it 8 " "I broke my watch the last day I was out hunting," said the old fellow; " ask Molly there, I believe her's is going, he, he, he." "May the devil admire you, you old weasel," replied Ma- loney, "' it would be but right to twist your neck, and save the hangman a job." '"You're more likely, I think, ma bouchel,t to give him one he, he, he." Maloney, who felt that with the tongue at least, he was no match for the other, muttered an oath, and said, c"Casey, I'm in no humor for your bantering, there's weighty work to be settled on to-night, and the boys ought to be soon here. Stir up the old woman there, and get her to bring us a naggin or two of whiskey." * My soul to the devil.     i-y boy.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     117 "She's mighty deaf, Mr. Maloney," replied Casey," mighty deaf all out, devil a thing can she hear but the jingle of money in one's fist." "What do you mean, you old thief?" said Maloney. "What do you mean, you gallows bird?" answered Casey, as his :humor changed, and his eyes twinkled with rage. "I'd have you to know I was christened as well as yourself. The devil a tint of whiskey you'll get here until. you pay for it. It's seldom we see the color of your money, and the best word in your mouth is a curse or a bad name for a body." "Ay! that's my thanks," said Maloney, " for bringing the boys here." , Thank you for nothing," replied his friend, "I'd like to know who, besides myself, would let the likes of you into his house; and I'd have you to know, Mr. Maloney, that the boys drank whiskey here, ay, and ped for it, before you ever brought your handsome mug from Tipperary." An oath was again on Maloney's lips but he checked him- self. "Well," he said, " there is no use in friends falling out, here's the money, so shake the old woman up, get the whis- key and help me, yourself, to drink it." On this, Casey got up from his corner, and crossing over to his wife, shook her by the arm, at the same time bawl- ing in her ear, "Molly--Molly." ' What do you want?' replied the old woman, '" don't be disturbing me at my prayers." He,- he! laughed the old fellow, "Molly's mighty relig- ious all out, and signs by it we have all manner of good luck." "Luck, luck," said the old woman, catching at the word, "Yes I made Barney nail a horse shoe over the door, for luck," "So you did, Molly," replied her husband, " and it's as crooked as his own foot. He, he, he,- but get up, I say. Mr. Maloney, the dacent man,-he,--he,- he,- wants something to drink, and here's his honest money, he, he, he, to pay for it." "Money," said the old hag, brightening up, and taking a  A,   "8      THE DALYS OF DALYSTO WN. piece of silver from her husband's hands, she examined it by the light of the fire, after which she dropped it into an old purse which she drew from her bosom, and then hobbled into the next room; presently she returned, bearing a bot- tle and a glass. "There's half a pint there," she said, addressing Maloney; "and you owe for another since you wor here last." Maloney took the bottle and glass from her 'palsied hands. "Here's luck," he said, filling out a bumper of whiskey and tossing it off. As the old woman tottered back to her seat, her eyes fell upon the form of a young man, who lay stretched on a bundle of straw in one corner of the cabin, some distance from the fire, but near enough to allow its light to fall upon his face and figure. He was not over twenty years of age, but his features wore that premature, old look that one often sees with those who have suffered much from pain, or sickness in their youth; one of his legs was much shorter than the other, and the foot so turned in that the heel pointed out. It was not what is termed a club foot, but seemed as if it had been wrenched around, by some frightful accident. He lay on his back with his hands supporting his head, his eyes half closed, but not from sleep, for now and then he shot quick, furtive glances to where Maloney sat. When the old woman's dim sight rested on the figure of her grandson, she said in tonps one hears addressed to a child, (for the old woman had ceased to take note"of time, and continued to look upon him as such,) go to bed ma lanna* go to bed asthoret and you'll see what a fine warm breakfast I'll give you in the morning." "' What are you talking about," said Maloney, " are'nt the boys to meet here to-night, and is'nt the boccagh: our sec- retary?" and he gave a loud, hoarse laugh. The old woman hobbled on to her seat, and as she turned her back upon her grandson, she again became forgetful of his presence, but if Maloney could have seen and read the look of deadly hate that shot from the cripple's eyes as he listened to the contemptuous tone of voice in which the * My child.     t Darlin.       1 Cripple.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      119 other spoke of him, and how his pale cheek flushed up at the word "boccagh,'"Mr. Maloney would, if-quick at read- ing men's thoughts, have seen things to be dreaded and disliked even more than Casey's smile. Shortly afterwards countrymen, in groups of twos and threes, or singly, entered the house, until the small room became quite crowded. The most of these were wild, tat- tered-looking young fellows, and there was a reckless, dev- il-may-care look, even in the manner in which they shoved each other about as they entered. "What are you about, Dan Sullivan? ' said a young fel- low, as a push from behind nearly upset him, " do you want to make me tear the dacent man's carpet, that's just the same as the one's on the gentlemen's drawing rooms?" "How's that, Tom . " asked another. "Bekase one's foot sinks in it." And, apparently with great effort, he raises his foot out of the soft mortar with which Mr. Casey had been filling up the holes in his earth- en floor. There- were, however, amongst them a few young men of better appearance and more comfortably clad. These stood a little apart from the others, and eyed Maloney with no very friendly looks. In the meantime, that worthy had kept his seat, nodding now and then to those who entered; whilst the cripple, who had risen, stood at the fire, holding his thin hands over the blaze. Mr. Casey went into the only other room the cabin con tained, to prepare for his guests. His taskwas not a diffi- cult one. Placing a couple of long forms, as many chairs, and half a dozen turf baskets bottom upwards, round a long deal table, he set thereon a bottle, with a lighted candle stuck in its neck, and having stood for a moment, admiring his arrangements, he returned to the outer room, and an- nounced that all was ready, and that they had better go in at once, ,' for devil burn another candle was in the house."5 Laughing and jostling each other, the men made their way into the inner room, where Maloney and the cripple had already preceded them. "Manners, boys, manners," shouted a huge fellow, shov- ing those before him. "Take off your hats, gintlemen, Mr. Maloney is going to open the meeting with prayers."   120      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Troth, his father has a great deal to answer for," said another, "for not making a parson of him; he has a heav- enly look between the eyes." "Get out, you omadhawn," replied the first speaker, "Don't you know his tinder heart would never let him col- lect his tithes from a poor body?" "Oh, I'm thinking he might get over that weakness; and what a beautiful clerk Barney would make," and, amid the laughter of the others, the fellow drawled out " amen." Maloney scowled, from under his heavy eyebrows, at the speakers. "Sit down, boys," he said to the others, " we have some- thing else to do besides listening to the balderdash of them fools. Get the books, Barney." The cripple went over to a box, and, opening it, took therefrom an ink bottle, with the stump of a quill pen stuck in it, and three or four soiled sheets of paper, styled by Mr. Malonev '6 the books," and returning, laid them on the table. As he did so, a young man entered the room. He was a fine, handsome looking young fellow, fully six feet high, and though not so broad across the shoulders and chest as Maloney, one of the fancy would have backed him against the latter. His frieze bodycoat was well made, and fitted closely to his body. His short knee-breeches and gray stockings displayed, to great advantage, his well formed legs. The home-made linen of his shirt was white, and well made up. Round his neck was a black ribbon, tastefully tied, and a straw hat with a green band, sat jauntily on his head. His countenance was open and engaging; yet was there a wild, daring expression in his eyes that told of a spirit which would seek dangerfor the verylove of it. Per. haps, under different circumstances, he would have been a . renowned hero- a mighty slayer of men. As it was, he was but the best dancer, the best hurler, the best fighter, with stick or fist, in the barony of T , and son to rath- er a comfortable farmer, on the lands'of Dalystown. He was the same man who had addressed Anthony O'Kelly, on the morning of Henry Daly's duel with Brown. "It's a wild night, boys," he said, on entering, "but you seem merry enough, here. Faith, you're starting the grouse and plover in the bog, with the shouting you have.    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      121 "Ay," answered Maloney, "It's well we're so deep in the bog, or they'd bring the peelers on us." Several of those present called out to the new comer: , Here, James, come here." "James, come over here, I kept a place for you beside me." ,' James Delany, here's a beautiful stool that only wants two legs, and you can mend that same with a sod of turf." The person thus addressed went over to where a young lman, about his own age, sat. The latter, who was one of those I have mentioned as being more respectable-looking than the majority of Mr. Casey's guests, made room by his side, and James Delany sat down. And now commenced a knocking on the table, with sticks and knuckles, and loud calls to Casey to bring something to drink. "What will yez have, gentlemen?" said the latter, stand- ing at the door and grinning into the room. "What will we have? you old dried borawn, wine, to be sure! What the devil can you give us but your cursed , whiskey, that's more nor half bog wator?"  X "Oh, boys, listen to him," said (.':uSey, " disparaging the blessed licker that Matty Keel' sold me, and it the best still he run these two years." "All, but how much water did you put in it since t " ask- ed the first speaker. "The never a drop, Larry," answered Casey. "It's as free from waver as your eyes war the day you buried your old mother, he-, he-, he-." "Oh! by ," said the young fellow, jumping up, "I'll knock the wind out of your old carcase." But those next to him caught his arms. and one of them said. "Sit down, Larry, you brought the old villain's tongue upon you, and sure you wouldn't disgrace yourself by -touching the likes of him." Larry's passion evaporated as quickly as it had arisen, and, laughing,' he resumed his seat, whilst Mr. Casey laid some whiskey on the table, together with one drinking glass, and four or five broken-down, dissipated looking tea- cups. Mr. Casey, however, did not withdraw until the reck- oning was paid, for, like other good men, he had cause to complain of the forgetfulness of friends,   122      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "You're late to-night, James, I thought you weren't go. ing to come at all," said he who had made room for young Delany. "I couldn't help it, Tom," replied the latter, "I was up at the big house* asking for Mr. Henry." "And how is he, James?" "Oh very bad entirely. Kitty Donavan tells me he is not expected to live. Troth I had no heart to come here to- night, and I wouldn't but that I promised yourself." "I thought he was getting better since the doctor took out the ball," said the other. "So he was," replied Delany, " until the fever (God save as,) kern on him." "Devil a much better he is than the others," remarked Maloney, who had overheard the conversation of the two friends, "I'm told he did nothing since he kem home but abuse us, and say we ought to be transported." "You're a liar, Maloney," cried young Delany, jumping up, while his teeth set in passion, "you're a liar, and I tell you so to your face. How dare you speak of liim so, and what do you know about him?'.5 The ruffian quailed before the fiery looks of the young man. "It's true enough, he replied, I don't know much of him, but I know if he was a friend to the people he'd let us alone." "It's because he is a friend, that he spoke as he did," an- swered Delanv. "That's a purty way of talking, for a mimber," said Malo- ney. n'To h-1 with your membership," replied the other, "and only for the oath I was fool enough to take, I'd pitch you and it to the devil. Sorra much luck I saw in the country since you kem amongst us. Where's the use in taking guns that you're afraid to use, and leaving them in the fir-bushes until the stocks rot off them? Much good would O'Roarke's guns do you, and poor Mike Donelan lost his life on the head of them." , The landlord's residencet   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      123 When Donelan's name was mentioned, a low murmur ran round the table. Y,es," continued Delany, "him that's lying low in his bed to-night, was right when he told old Marks 'Finnerty, that we were mad vagabonds, (I mind well, Maloney, what you're driving at,) and doesn't the priest say the same, and worse, and maybe you'll tell me he's no friend to the peo- ple either?" "By gorras, what James Delany says is true enough," re- marked one of the company. "Ay is it," said several others. Maloney saw that a crisis was at hand, he was well ac- customed to those sudden ebullitions of reason, regret, and anger on the part of his dupes, and now, like a skilful general, determined to turn the position the enemy had taken, so that it would bring about the very object he had in view. After a few moments he said: "You are right, James Delany, the devil a much use in taking guns, af they are never to be used. Mick Donelan, too, lies low in his bloody grave, and a comely boy he was; his poor mother lies besides him, both murdered by O'Roarke. How long are they to remain there, boys, afore we take vengeance on the murderer?" The whiskey had by this time gone pretty freely round, and already showed its effects on some of those present. The moment O'Roarke's name was mentioned, every head was raised, and when Maloney had concluded, several call- ed out, as they struck the table with their clenched hands, "Aye, revenge, revenge, on the murderer, O'Roarke." James Delany, placing his arms on the table, let his head sink down upon them. Maloney marked the effect his words had produced, and, for a moment, his cold, heavy eve rested in triumph on the young man; then'he continued: "' Do you think, boys, we contint ourselves, in Munster,' with taking guns and leaving them in the bushes? No, faith, we take the guns first and shoot the owners afterwards." He paused, and was greeted on every side with shouts of, "Well said, Maloney." "That's the talk." "More power to you."    124      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. At this moment a man entered the room. He mightnot have numbered more than forty years, but as he then was, it would have been impossible to have judged his age. His frame wai that of a large man, but bent and emaciated. His face was fleshess, with high cheekbones, like those of a skull; the lips thin, bloodless, and drawn apart, showing the long yellow teeth; the eyes so far sunk in, that but for their restless glare, one might suppose the sockets to be empty. He was dressed in tattered clothes, if clothes they could be called. An old corduroy trowsers hung in ribbons down his legs, and an old frieze coat, secured at the waist with a straw rope, was wrapped around his body. In the excitement Maloney's words had caused, few noticed his entrance. One or two, as he passed them, handed to him whiskey, which he eagerly took and drank off, and then moved on to where a bed stood, in the farthest end of the room, and sat down upon it, where his figure became lost in the gloom that the one miserable candle but faintly dis- pelled. Maloney now saw, by the flushed faces around him, that his audience were prepared for what he wished to announce, and that the voices of the few who might wish to oppose him, would be swept away and silenced by the fierce pas. sions he had evoked. Striking the table, tlion, with his broad hand, he yelled: ,' Boys, let O'Roarke, the murderer, die-die like a dog." Though all expected this, yet a thrill shot through the heart of the most reckless there, as the words of death came from the ruffian's lips, but this feeling was momentary, and a dozen voices repeated his words: "o Let the murderer die." "Now, James Delany, are you satisfied?" said Maloney, "you see we're not going to leave the guns idle. " "I never meant this, as God is my judge," said Delany, raising his head, I never meant it, and you know, Maloney, in your black heart, that I didn't. What I meant was, that when I joined, I thought there was to be a fair, stand up fight for Ireland, as you said there would." "Well, avick, and so there will; every beginning is weak, and it's easier to shoot O'Roarke than to take the castle of 'Dublin,"   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      125 And, giving a horse laugh, the fellow winked at those around him. His words were received with cheers and laughter, whilst James Delany, folding his arms, remained silent. (4 Now, boys," said Maloney, " we'll call over the names of the mimbers, and after that we'll draw lots to see who is to do O'Roarke's job. Barney, read the list." During the above scene, the face of the cripple, who sat next to Maloney, had evinced no emotion, save a sickly smile that parted his thin lips, from time to time, as he looked upon the flushed countenances, and listened to the savage yells around him. When Maloney addressed him, he took-up one of the papers before him, and com-menced reading from it. "Stay a moment, Barney," said Maloney. "Boys, those present are to answer to their names; and, Barney, do you put a cross after the one that's answered to. Now corn. mernce again." "Dan Sullivan," said Barney. "Here." cried a voice. "Tim Larkin." "Present." i Larry Bryan." "Absent." "Tom Grehanf" "Here." ' Shamus Rue.* " To the fore." "Murty Joyce." "Absent." ' Pat Dwyer." "Here, your sowl." "James Delany." There. was no answer, and Barney hurriedly called out another name, without marking Delany as present. "What do you mean you d-n boccagh," said Maloney, striking him on the face, " don't you see James Delany is present, and why don't you put a cross to his name?" "Shame, shame," cried several voices, and it was likely, had Barney resented the blow, that a general row would have taken- place, which might have put a stop to all fur- ther proceedings that night, but he had no wish that such should be the case. He bent his flushed face over the paper, as he said, "it's no matter, he did not hurt me, and sure he's right, I am butl a boccagh," and then again, com- menced to read over the names. Having called out about * Red James.   126      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. forty of them, he counted over those he had marked, and announced that there were twenty members present; in this number James Delany was included. "Go outside the house, Shawn,D said Maloney, " and pull some straws out of the thatch." The man addressed went out and soon returned. "Now, boys," continued Maloney, taking some long straws from the man's hands, and dividing them into dif. ferent sized pieces, "I will put twenty of these into a hath and the man who draws the shortest, is to be the one to do for O'Roarke. Is that fair?" "Aye, all fair," " devil a fairer," were the answers he received. "1ould it, Murty, and shake them up well, every one must have a fair chance, and here goes for luck." Hle dove his hand into the hat, as he concluded, and drew out a straw. The hat was now passed round the table, each person, as it came to hi m, drawing from it. James Delany was the last to whom it was handed; lhe started, and, scarcely conscious of the action, put his hand in and drew a straw; it was the last and the shortest. Several persons at once called out, "James Delany has it, measure, measure," and- all stooped forward, holding out their hands, but there was scarcely any occasion for mea- urement, for the straw James Delany held was fully an inch shorter than the others. ' It's a trick, a damnable trick, ye have put upon me," said the young man, starting up, whilst large drops of per- spiration stood out upon his forehead. "There was no trick in it, Delany,' answered Malony, "and you have to shoot O'Roarke, or get some one to do it for you."' "- Never," said Delany, recovering his strength, and draw- ing himisel iup to his full height. "What, murder a man, in cold blood?' Never! Black, murdering villian that you are, I defy you, I defy you all." A loud, menacing murmur of anger arose as he conclu- ded, and the eyes of savage, half drunken men glared up- on him, whilst those of the party amongst whom he had taken his seat, exchanged glances, as if preparing to defend him, if necessary.   -THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      127 ;James Delany," said Maloney, in a slow, deep voice "do you refuse to obey orders?" tc I do, I tell you I do. I tell you I defy you," he replied, stamping his foot upon the ground. "Very well," said Maloney, "'iow listen " But ere he could repeat the first words of that fearful sentence, which each of those present- had sworn to exe- cute against a disobedient member, the man who had been sitting on the side of the bed, and whose presence was en- tirely overlooked, when the drawing took place, advanced to the fable. "You have left me out, Mr. Maloney," he said. "I'n a mimber and have a right to draw." "'Yes, yes," exclaimed Delany's friends, "it's all wrong, we must draw over again." "There's no occasion," answered the man, "Ill take James Delany's place, and do your bidding. Give me some whis- key, Larry." "Will you shoot O'Roarke?" asked Maloney. A strange, fearful fire shot from the sunken eyes of him to whom this question was put. He dashed the cup which had been handed to him, on the floor. "Will I shoot him?" he hissed through his closed teeth. Aye'! I'll shoot him, drag out his heart and lap up its blood, like the starved dog he has made me." His hearers shuddered, and tipsy men grew sober, as they listened to him. "By the Holy Virgin," he continued, " it only looks like yesterday, when young and strong and tinder-hearted, like Jamles Delany there, I brought Mary home. Oh, cushama chree,* wasn't I the happy man that day? and it was my- self that had a right to be so." He paused and fixed his eyes upon the ground, seemingly recalling the past to memory. So still was the room, that the heavy breathing of his listeners was distinctly audible. Suddenly he raised his head, "Give me another glass, Larry, he said, "you nagur,f you're keeping all the whis- key for yourself." and he gave a hollow, mirthless laugh. Pulse of my heart.      f Miser. { 3tiser.    &    128      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. The man whom he addressed handed him some more whis. key, in al cup; he drank it off. "It's no more nor water," he said, laying down the vessel. "Well," he continued, "I worked hard, late and early, to pay the rent and keep the cabin for Mary, and I did it, asthore.* But O'Roarke came and took the land over my head and over the heads of many others like me. He raised the rent, though God knows it was too high before; and the same year the oats grew so short that we had to pull it up with our hands, and there was' nothing of a head upon it at all, at all. But, sure I'm telling you what you all knew before. You all heard how O'Roarke brought the sheriff to drive us out of house and home. ' Well, that very same time, Mary was down in the fever. I had to carry her out in my arms, herself and the child, one by one; and when O'Roarke and his bailiffs and the sheriff was gone, I got some of the wattles and scraws that war on the cabin they were after tearing down, and I laid them up against the ditch, making a kind of shed for Mary and the child. They stopped in it all that night, and the next morning I went to a neighbor's, for some milk for them. As God is my judge, O'Roarke and his bailiffs kem, while I was away, and stripped the sods off the sticks, and taking the sticks themselves, they set fire to them in the field t As I came back, I saw the blaze and thought it was the shed that took fire, over their heads. The sight left my eyes, but I ran on, blind and staggering, and threw myself over the ditch, and there, afore me, was my wife, my Mary, manine asthee hu,J the rain beating on her pale face and her blue eyes open, as if she was looking at me; but the light was gone out forever from them, and the weenys child lay dead, across her breast." Again he paused, again he stretched out his bony hand. More drink was given to him. He tossed it off, and turn- ing to Maloney said, "You're a stranger in those parts, and axed me would I shoot O'Roarke? I say I will. Do you think, now, Ill keep my word?" Whatever horror the first words of this man had inspired, *Darling. fED.-Strictly true, upon my honor. My soul's within you. Little,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     129 was quickly swallowed up in the wild, burning thirst for vengeance which the story of his wrongs had called forth. If Delany, or the few who would act with him, thought, in the commencement, of frustrating Maloney's designs, they knew now how utterly futile such an attempt would be, Nor, in truth, was James Delany, who had shrunk a moment before from the thoughts of blood, now altogether free from the dark passions thus invoked. So surely does the first false step frequently lead to crimes, that in the beginning the heart revolts from in horror. How many a wretch, looking back to what he was, has put to himself the ques- tion, how is it possible I can be what I am? Maloney grasped the man's hand, as he said: , You have the heart of a man, in you, Bryan Larkin, and we'll trust you. Before a month's over you'll have your revenge, hot and heavy, on O'Roarke. And now, boys, let's drink healths round, and success to the cause. We'll meet again this night week. There's some light work to do.; we have to call upon some friends for fear they'd be forgetting us, and mind be ready, and tell the others, not here, to be ready to pay in their fees the next night of meeting. In the meantime we must find out what fairs O'Roarke will be likely to attend this month, or next month, if we have to wait so long. I'm told he's more valorous- like when he drinks at a fair, and less on his guard, than he does be at other times." The business of the night being now concluded, Barney arose, and putting the papers into the box, went to the out- er room, and in a short time those who had just settled on committing a murder, were chatting, laughing, and singing. But neither James Delany or his friends remained with this party. As the former passed into the outer room, he found the cripple sitting by the fire; the old woman had gone to bed, and Mr. Casey feigned sleep. "How do you feel, those times, Barney?" asked Delany. "Does the pain in the back be troubling you yet?" "Troth it does, James," replied Barney. "I wish you could get some scholars to teach, Barney," said the other, "I was speaking to my father about you, and he says you can have the use of the barn, and welcome."   130      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Thank you, James," replied the cripple, " you never wanted the kind word." "Well, think about it, Barney,. anyhow," said Delany. "And a good night to you." "Good night, James,"' replied the cripple. "Never wanted the kind word." Oh, how simple and lit- tle this appears to be, a kind word, what is it? Does it weigh as a feather? does he who travels with it, feel it burdensome, or does he lose anything when he gives it away? Yet, is it more powerful than the screw of Archi- medes; yet, does its quick lightning shiver into atoms the rocks fate prepares to hurl at us. Why, even here, in this foul hovel of crime, it enters the heart of the miserable traitor that crouches over the expiring fire, and saves him that bestowed it from a shameful death. In about an hour after James Delany left, those who had remained after him, took their departure, somewhat under the influence of Mr. Casey's blessed liquor, but with reason enough left to enable them to find their way across the bog. Maloney was the last to lave. Silently and alone he crossed the heath, and, as I leave him to pursue his way, let me pause a moment and endeavor to fathom the motives that led him to pursue his dark and bloody trade. He is no creature of the imagination, whose character and motives I might fashion to my will. :He has existed, spoken, and acted as I have feebly attempted to portray him; and here, at the very outset, I confess myself at fault. Was it that his wicked nature revelled in crime? If so, could he not have indulged it without the assistance of a motley crowd of strangers, all of whom held his life in their hands? or was he Lucifer himself, seeking thus, in human form, to destroy souls? Again, could he but have 'for his object the petty sums of money collected from his dupes? Why, had he stood on the high road, for half an hour, with a pistol in his hand, he might make himself master of more than he could collect from them in a whole life time. Or was he but the under agent, the base tool, the dupe himself, of men high in the world's esteem,- high in office, magnates of the land,-- marquises, dukes, " and a'that," who adopted   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     , 131 this plan to debase and weaken, still further, the people they held enslaved, until they could knead them like baker's dough?        ' "What," exclaims some honest, unsophisticated fellow, bayou don't mean to say, seriously, that men, high in power and rank, would stoop to such baseness,- would soil their hands, by touching so vile a tool ." Yea, do I faith. But, bless your innocent nose, their pure, aristocratic hands never came in contact with the plebeian tool. There was an electric chain of great length between them, whose links were composed of police spies, policemen, police offi- cers, toadies, magistrates, deputy lieutenants, attorney gen- erals, &c, &c. And the great man stood at one end, and the vile, leprous tool at the other. When Maloney took his departure, Mr. Casey woke up     from his fox's sleep.  Barney," said he, as he raked the ashes over some light- ed coals) "they've settled on O'Roarke's business." His grandson nodded. "There'll be a great reward entirely offered," said Mr. Casey, peering from under his eyelids at his grandson. "Hold your prate," replied Barney, " is it taking leave of your senses you are, to be talking about the likes? '? At this moment a starved looking cat, which had met with some accident, crossed the floor, hopping on three legs, whereupon a large dog, who had remained after his master, jumped at the cat; but the latter, rearing suddenly up, struck the dog with his fore paw and sent him howling away. *"Well done, pussheen," exclaimed Barney, rubbing his hands in great glee. "Boccagh as you are, see if you didn't give the big bully the worst of it." He then limped into the next room, with a malicious smile still parting his white lips. As he commenced to un- dress, a sudden turn he made, caused him a sting of pain. He placed his hands upon his hips and the smile gave place to a look of suffering; this, in its turn, to one of thought. "How well James Delany thought of asking for my back," he said. 6"Aye, I must be cautious; not a hair of his head shall be touched."    132       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER XTIJ. IN WHCH THE THEORY OF SYMPATHY IS ILLUSTRATED, ITS MEDICI- NAL POWERS TESTED, AND THE HAPPY RESULTS ARISING THERE- FROM. EDWARD VAUGHAN RETURNS TO HS RESPECTABLE REL- ATIVE, BARTLY LYONS. Around the house of Dalystown, there is a still, gloomy look. The very air seems laden with sorrow. Men move about the yard silently, or speak in low tones as they pass to and fro. At times, messengers on horseback, are seen approaching the house by the rear entrance, and after mak- ing some enquiries of those in the yard, they turn their horses' heads, and are soon again lost to sight. Country people too, on foot, the old and the young, the withered hag and the blooming girl, the old man, holding by the hand his little grandson, (the beginning and the end, and both so weak,) are seen wending their way to the house. For the most part, they make the same enquiries and receive like answers. Some retrace their steps, others of them remain about the yard, conversing in whispers, and a few enter at the rear of the house. Doctor Kelly sits by the bedside of Henry Daly, his fingers press the wrist of the young man. Suddenly a fright- ened expression comes to the face of the former; he lets go the wrist, places his hand over the heart, and stoops his head close to the mouth of the sick man. Slow, weak breathing meets his ear, and with a sigh of relief, he resumes his former position. As he did so, the door opened and a young girl entered the room. She was in the very blush of glorious womanhood. Her figure was tall, but its out- lines were concealed by a large traveling cloak. The strings. of her bonnet were untied, and her black hair fell in wavy ringlets on each side of her face. But vain would it be for   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN       133 me to endeavor to portray the beauty of Chat face. Those who had seen it dyed with the blush of health might, per- chance, have deemed it still lovelier now, in its pale sor- row. The likeness of Rose O'Donnel, painted by a skillful artist, is now before me, and even he has failed. How could it be otherwise?' The colors have never blended on the painter's pallet that could portray the living light of those liquid eyes. In his delineation of the beautiful mouth, with the red lips, slightly apart, through which the pearly teeth peep out, he has reached the highest perfection of his art; yet he could give but one of the thousand lovely expres- sions that continually chased each other over those pliant lips, like the bright, tiny ripples of a summer lake, kissed by the setting sun; the last even appearing more beautiful' than the one which had preceded it. She moved with a quick step to where the doctor sat, and extended her hand to him, but her eyes were directed i to the unconscious form on the bed. As she gazed, a look of anguish came to her features, her whole frame shivered, and a mist gathered before her sight. The old man, still holding her hand, led her gently from the bed to the window. "Oh doctor, dear doctor," she said, in a low, broken voice, "how-how is he?"  "The crisis of the fever has come on, my dear child," an- swered the doctor. "When did you arrive, Rose?. " "This moment," she answered. "Have you seen Mr. Daly?" "No, one of the servants told me that he was in his study, but I expected to have found Emily here; where is she?" "Poor child," replied Dr. Kelly, "I have cheated her to lie down, by promising to have her called in half an hour. She will be glad to see you, Rose." "But, doctor," said the young girl, looking towards the bed, is he so very bad?" "He is, my child. He was weak and exhausted before the fever came on, else he would have been better able to go through the crisis. He is lying now twelve hours in that lethargic sleep."   134      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Do you think," she asked, "will he awaken soon?  "Yes, Rose," he replied, "if if, my poor child; he ever awakens. But a moment ago, and I could not feel a pulse." "Oh God! oh God!" exclaimed the young girl, in a sup. pressed agony of grief. "Rose, my child," said the doctor, "you look terribly fa- tigued. Go and get some refreshment, and tell one of the servants to send the nurse here. I must go to Mr. Daly for a little." "Doctor," she replied, "I will watch here, until you re- turn." "You!" he exclaimed, " nonsense, Rose, you can scarcely -stand upon your feet this moment." "Doctor," she repeated, "I will watch him." "My dear girl, your feelings are too excited," answered the doctor. "For the love of God, doctor, let me remain," she said. 6' Go, and I will wait your return. Dear, good Doctor Kelly, you will not refuse your poor old pet Rose, this one little request." Thus pleading, she led the old man toward the door. "Well, well," he said "I cannot refuse you, Rose. I will be back presently, but if you see the slightest change, let me know of it at once, without waiting for my return." As the old doctor went down the stairs, he shook his head sadly. "Another heart," he said to himself, ,' with all the rich treasures of its youth, embarked in that poor sinking vessel." Rose O'Donnel closed the door after him, and laying aside her cloak and bonnet, approached the bed. One could now see how admirably nature had adapted her form to her lovely face. A plain, dark dress, fitting closely to her fig- ure, and coming high up, covered'her gently sloping shoul- ders and a bosom of perfect development. A black silk handkerchief was tied loosely round her neck, leaving a portion of it visible; and one dark curl, as if enamoured of its whiteness, had strayed from its clustering companions, and rested upon it. Pushing hack her hair, with her small white hands, she *    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, *     135 stooped down and gazed upon the face, that the dew of death seemed to be fast gathering over. As she did so, the pupils of her eyes dilated, and a scorching pain shot through her brain; she felt her senses leaving her. Fortunately, tears came to her relief; she fell upon her knees, and sink- ing her face in the white counterpane of the bed, she mur- mured: "Heavenly Father! oh, mercy; spare him, oh, spare him." She remained thus for several minutes, long after her lips had ceased to pray, for she dreaded again to look upon the face of her beloved. At length, with a shudder, she raised her head; then stooping slowly down, she pressed her mouth to those cold clammy lips. What elixir of life was there in that sweet young breath, to recall the spirit, even as it was entering the dark portals of death, I know not, but as her mouth touched that of the sick man, a faint color, scarcely perceptible, came to his face; a blue vein in the forehead gradually filled, and the ey6s partially opened and again closed. Scarcely breathing, the young girl watched these signs of returning consciousness. Pale and weak,-for she now feared she might have incautiously disturbed him,--her limbs refused to support her, and she fell back into the chair the doctor had been sitting in. And now there is no sound in the sick room, save the beating of her own heart. Again the eyes open; this time, almost fully; and the lips slightly'move. The young girl presses both her hands to her heart. How loudly it beats,- loud enough, she fears, to frighten him. Again the eyes close, again open. Ah! this time there is a consciousness in their expression, as they become languidly fixed on Rose. Higher, higher, mounts the color to the face of Henry Daly; his lips part, and a voice, so feeble and low, that it would be inaudible, save to the ear of love, whispers, "Rose." The young girl answered not, but she softly pressed the hand that lay extended on the bed. A long sigh of relief, of happiness, came from the very depths of Henry Daly's heart, and again his eyes closed. But this time, the color faded not from his face nor the smile from his lips. In a few moments, calm, full breathing told the loving watcher that fl brahn todIh   136      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. he slept. With a noiseless step she crossed the room, stood for a moment at the door, listened, then, like an arrow from the bow, she sped along the corridor, down stairs, and enter- ed the study. Mr. Daly and Dr. Kelly hurried back with her to Henry's room. The doctor placed his fingers on his patients wrist and listened to his breathing; then, with a joyous coun- tenance, he turned and caught Mr. Daly's hand: "Give God thanks, Godfrey, my friend," he said, "the crisis is past. Henry lives and will recover." "Why Rose," said Mr. Daly, as the family met at break. fast, next morning,- (what a happy little party they were, to be sure)-"whv Rose you are a fairy, a good, benevo- lent fairy. Cinderella's godmother was nothing to you. You light amongst us in the darkest hour, bringing health on your wings, and all is light and happiness. "Very pretty, upon my word," said Dr. Kelly. "Eh doctor," said Mr. Daly, "are you jealous, or what would you think of taking Rose into partnership." "She might not be so successful in general practice," re- plied the doctor, opening his second egg, and giving Rose a sly glance which sent the red blood to her face. "You got my letter, Rose ." asked Emily. "Yes," she answered, "but not for two days after I should have received it." "Letters, for which one cares anything about, are sure to go astray," remarked the doctor, "I never knew an attor- ney's letter to miscarry." "On the same day that I got your letter, Emily," contin- ued Rose, "I read in the papers an account of Henrv's duel with Mr. Brown, and I thought (here she again blushed) that you would like to have me with you." "You thought quite right, my dear girl," said Mr. Daly. "Indeed you did, Rose," said Emily. And. how did you like England .a " "I met with very kind people there," she replied, " but of the country itself, I saw but little, and I did not like a town life, I missed the green fields, and the flowers." "Anything else?" asked the old doctor archly. "Yes, doctor," she replied, "I missed the dear friends amongst whom I had passed my life."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      137 , You should never have left them, Rose," said Mr Daly, warmly. But now that we have you back, we will watch you, and keep you from flying away from us again." ,Well," said the doctor rising, "I must be off, I will be here again in the course of the day. You have nothing to do, but to keep Henry as quiet as possible, and to give him some light drink when he requires it. Youth and nature, two excellent doctors, when left to themselves, will do the rest. Edward, my boy, go and order out my gig, and you may drive it round yourself, until I see how you handle the rib- bons.' A fine lad," continued Dr. Kelly, when Edward had left the room. "Oh, I do not know what we should have done without him," said Emily, "You can't imagine, Rose, how affection- ately attentive and useful he has been during Henry's ill- ness." "Poor little fellow," remarked Mr. Daly, "he has had a dull time of it, since he came here, and I fear he must leave us soon." "Why papa?" asked Emily. "I have received a letter from hits uncle, my love, to that effect," replied Mr. Daly, I have not, as yet, answered it, but I will do so to-day, and beg, at least another fortnight for Edward. His attention to Henry, has completely won my heart, and I shall ever feel a deep interest in him; he is, indeed, a noble hearted boy." "Oh do write, papa," said Emily. Presently Edward was seen passing the parlor windows seated in the doctor's gig, and the latter, after renewing his directions and cautions, took his leave. "Edward," he said, as he stepped into his gig, "I leave those two young girls within there, under your special charge, bring them out to walk. Egad, I envy you, you young dog, but you must be very strict with them, and see "that they don't chat Henry back into another fever."7 "How can I prevent them, doctor?. "asked Edward. ';By making love to them, you booby," replied the doc. tor. "Doctor," said Edward jumping upon the step of the gig, and speaking in a whisper, " the servants say, that it was Miss Rose O'Donnell and not you, that cured Henry,"   138      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Get down you scamp," replied the doctor, raising his whip. As Edward, with a laugh, jumped nimbly to the ground, the whip curled over his head, came down lightly on the horse, and away went the doctor, humming a very lively air, for so old a gentleman. From the cradle to the grave we are kept busy, burying our jays and sorrows, adding, each time we do so, another to that shadowy troop that walk with us through life. While Edward Vaughan was laughing with Dr. Kelly, Tom Gallaher arrived from the post-office, and when the former entered the house, with a light, happy step, Mr. Daly called him into the parlor. Godfrey Daly held an open letter in his hand, and as the boy entered the room, his eyes for a moment rested on the well known hand writing, and then were raised to Mr. Daly's face, with the old frightened expression in them. It was the first time the latter had ever seen it, and he actually started, so changed was the boy's whole coutenance by it. ' I believe, Edward," said Mr. Daly, "' you already guess who this letter is from, and what its contents are." "My uncle has sent for me, sir," replied the boy. "Yes, he requires you to return home at once, as he says he cannot allow you to idle your time any longer. I am very sorry, Edward, to part with you so soon. This very day I was to have written to your uncle, asking him to al- low you to remain a liitle longer with us. He says you can return by the coach, but I will not permit you to do so, I will send my own gig and servant with you. I shall also write to your uncle, to say what a good boy you have been, and how you have endeared yourself to all of us." Wbile Mr. Daly was speaking, the boy struggled hard to command his feelings. He went to the open window; there were flowers beneath his eyes, while stretching be. yond was a fair landscape of green fields, trees, and water. And then there came to him, mixed with the perfume of the flowers, with the beauty of the landscape, recollections of that gloomy, musty home, to which he was returning, and the cold pitiless hearts which were there to receive him. Alas, the contrast was too great, and covering his face with both his hands, he gave way to an agony of grief.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      139 Mr. Daly was greatly moved. "God pity you, my poor child," he said, " and forgive those whose conduct has made the idea of returning to them so painful, but you shall soon come again to see us, Edward." "Oh no- no," replied the boy, "I should never have come, I had almost forgotten what happiness was." Mr. Daly went over to him, and taking his hand, made him sit down, and sat down himself beside him. "I must scold you, Edward," he said in a kind voice, "for what you have just said; you are too young to say that you had almost forgotten what happiness was, for you meant by it, that you had given up all hopes of ever being happy again. You should not say so, my child; you must remember that He who strikes us down, can raise us up, and that He afflicts his own. You understand me, Edward?" "Yes, sir," he replied, "I think I do." "Sooner or later, my child," continued Mr. Daly, " afflic- tions come to all of us. No state is free from them. They pierce through the robes of royalty as well as through the beggar's rags. A great affliction has befallen you,-the greatest indeed, that could happen to you, at your time of life.-I mean the loss of your parents; and, perhaps, un- kindness on the part of those into whose hands you have fallen has made you feel that loss the more bitterly. In saying this, I do not wish to prejudice you against your uncle, and I only judge from what you yourself have told to Henry, believing that you would not be unjust." "No sir," replied the boy, '"God knows I have not told half the cruel treatment I have received from my uncle and aunt." "Well, Edward," continued Mr. Daly, " tell me now, after you had lived some time with them, were you not inclined to suppose that all the people in the world were cold and unkind?" "I began to think so, sir." "Well, after you came amongst -us, did you not change that opinion?" "Oh yes, yes," eagerly answered Edward, "I never, nev- erwill forget all your kindness to me." "Then you see how unjust you were," replied Mr. Daly,   "O      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "1 and it has been most fortunate for you to have had an opportunity to get rid of this false idea before it had time to grow hardened and fixed in your mind. You have, Ed. ward, endeared yourself to us- all, very much, since you came here. We all take the greatest interest in you. Let this show you that God can, when he pleases, raise up to you friends, not more willing, I hope, but far more capable of serving you. No doubt, my boy, but you thought, when first you came here, ' how happy these people are, oh, that I had so happy a home,' yet, you see how quickly affliction visited us. How near I was, in my old age, to lose him who is its stay. How quickly this house, you thought so pleas. ant, was changed to a house of mourning; yet, when all hope was almost gone, God, in His mercy, spared to me my son. Let this show you, Edward, that we all have our tri. als, and that it is to Him who sends them, we must look for help. Remember, my child, that without his power, you could not as much as move your finger; without His knowl. edge, a hair cannot fall from your head; without His will, naught can happen to you. And now listen to me. Go back to your uncle ; do your best to please him--he is your natural guardian,--and no person would wish to interfere between, you. He is in a position to be able to advance you, and he may intend to deal kindly by you. The man- ners of some people are coarse like their natures, and some. times they are unconscious of wounding more sensitive minds, because, under like circumstances, they themselves would not feel hurt. But if, after a time, you feel it impos- sible to live happily wilh your uncle, I pledge my word to you, as a gentleman, that I will interest myself in your favor, procure for you suitable employment with some oth- er person, and until I do so, you shall have a home here." The poor boy, carried away by jpy and gratitude, threw himself upon his knees, before Mr. Daly, and poured out his thanks. The latter, lifting him up, said: "Tut, tut, Edward, we must never kneel to any, save to God. I *would not," he con- tinued, " have made this promise, but that I feel convinced it will not prevent you from trying to please your uncle, but that I believe, feeling yourself not wholly dependent   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      141 on him, will enable you to give the experiment a fair trial." "I will indeed, sir," replied the boy, " do my very best to please him, but if " He paused. "If," replied Mr. Daly, " after you have done your duty, you find that he continues to treat you with unjust sever- ity, return here, as to a home." Edward Vaughan was unable to reply, but taking Mr. Daly's hand he pressed it against his lips. "And now, Edward," continued Mr. Daly, " from the tone of your uncle's letter, I think it best that you should return atonce. We must give our experiment a fair trial, and begin by obeying him promptly." "Very well, sir," replied the boy, " shall I see Henry before I go?" "Don't you think, Edward," answered Mr. Daly, "that it is better you should not? He is very weakl and the least excitement would throw him back." ';01, sir, give him a thousand loves from me, and tell him, that-that "-he was unable to proceed. "I will tell him, Edward," said Mr Daly, "when he is able to hear it, what a kind nurse you have been; how un- tiring you have been in your attention, what comfort and assistance you have given to his sister and myself; and Henry, is not one to forget such things." "It is for me not to forget," replied the boy. Emlily Daly here entered the room; her father showed her the letter from Lyons. "You see, my dear," he said, "-anxious as we all are that Edwardl should remain a little longer with us, the tone of this letter obliges me to advise him to return this very day, but Edward leaves us with a brave heart, as I have just toll him i what you and I have been speaking of. "Oh Edward," exclaimed the young girl, "I am sorry that you leave us so soon, but you must return, indeed you must, when Henry is strong and well." Thle poor boy looked at her, but could not trust himself tosay a word; she took a gold locket, which hung from her neck, and handed it to him. "Take this little keepsake, Edward," she said, " to pre- vent you from forgetting me." He caught her hand and   "2      THE DALYS OF DALYSTO W N. kissed it, then started and blushed, as if he had committed some great crime, but Emily, smiling, put her arm round his neck and kissed him affectionately. Ill two hours after this he started on his journey; his leave taking, indeed, occupied considerable time, for all the servants were included in it, nor were the dogs forgotten as he gathered them around him before stepping into the gig, and patted each on the head. '"Master Edward,' said Tom Gallaher, who kept running by the side of the vehicle, as it proceeded down the avenue, "IMaster Edward, have you the book of flies I gave you?" "I have, Tom." "Well, keelp'practicing to tie them the way I showed you, you have plenty of grouse hackle and feathers in the book, and, Master Edward"- "Well Tom, what is it?" "Don't mind avourneen one word, that old uncle of yours says to you, and take care would you be for letting him make an attorney av you." "It would be a murder all out," soliloquised Tom as he stopped and looked after the retreating gig, af he was con- varted into a divil's limb av an attorney. CHAPTER XIV. IN WHICH A CONVERSATION ON MARRIAGE LEADS TO A DISCLOSURE OF LOVE. What a boon health is No respecter of person either. A true republican, by my faith, it passes by the pale face of the rich lady, and kisses the cheek of the peasant girl   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,.       143 until she blushes in its presence. But oh, the exquisite de- light of returning health to the young! God of heaven, how beautiful does this earth you have given to us, then ap- pear! Hlow the lowliest flower is touched with the glory of your presence. At such a time the very consciousness of existence, is overflowing happiness in itself. Autumn's. leaves had fallen, ere Henry Daly arose from his sick bed, but what of that, there was spring in his heart; as, with Emily and Rose for his companions, they took lshort drives in and around the demesne. Sometimes in these excursions they alighted from their pony carriage  and strolled through the wide park, resting, from time totime on some rustic seat, and listening to the clarion notes of the knightly thrush, and the melancholy coo of the wood- guest in the adjoining plantations. At such times, a sub- dued joy, closely allied to sadness, took possession of Henry; he longed to throw himself at the feet of the beautiful girl beside him, and implore her, even with his tears, to love him, yet, he feared to scare away the bright bird; better to content himself with the happiness which the music of her voice, the touch of her hand, the very sound of her footsteps brought to him. Other things, too, he thought of, which kept him from   confessing his love, and each day as his strength returned to hin, he found it easier to keep under command those feelings, so near betraying themselves dur- ing those delicious moments when the soft languor that sickness leaves after it was still upon him. As his strength returned, his father's affairs engaged much of his attention; the more he made himself acquainted with them, the stron. ger became his generous resolve, for a time at least, to forget self, and endeavor to ward off the difficulties that were fast gathering around his parent. Rose spoke not of leaving, and happy, at least, in her presence, he busied 1nimself in looking over accounts, trying to collect outstand- ing arrears of rent, and to arrange the tenants' holdings on a  plan likely to be more beneficial both to them  and their landlord. In short, he was engaged in the most diffi- ctltof all difficult tasks, endeavoring to disentangle the entangled web surrounding the affairs of an embarrassed Irish gentleman, while the attorneys (indefatigable spiders)   "4       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. watched from their holes to renew the meshes. Alas, poor fly! Toil on, brave heart! toil on, good son? Now and then, you catch glimpses of a :bright, sunny landscape beyond, and happily seest not the dark clouds that are rising to shut it out from your view. When not engaged in business, Henry rode or walked with his sister and Rose, or read for them as they sat at their needlework. And then, what happy, quiet evenings were those, when the family met, at the close of day, in the old parlor of Dalystown. "And the cares that beset the day, Shall fold their tents, like the Arabs, And as noiselessly pass away." How cheerfully did the fire blaze in the ample grate, throwing a rich, mellow light upon the window curtains, which shut out. the cold world without, from this their little world within. Mr1. Dly, like most of his class, had an insuperable ob. jection to scanning minutely his affairs. When a difficulty arose, he looked to the readiest mode of meeting it, and the means adopted for this purpose were often those which, though they relieved him for the moment, were sure to ap- pear, at a future day, far more formidable, than the diffi. culty itself -ie knew that there were arrears of rent, to a large amount, due to him, and he was in the habit of cheat- ing hilself with the belief, that as times got better, he would get this money. But a few weeks' close investiga tion into his far,her's affairs, and the actual position of the te'nantry, showed Henry the fallacy of this idea; and, withl a heart that bled for the pain he was inflicting, he laid be. fore his father a faithful, but depressing statement of their position. He knew well his father's proud nature,-so indo- lent yet so sensitive,-that, even before his son, he felt hu  miliated by those painful disclosures. So while, with gentle plainness and truth, Hlenry' laid before him-the actual state of his affairs, he failed not to speak words of hope and en- couragement, which in truth, he was far from believing in himself. But though habit, education and circumstances had made s    Godfeyrl-jDanlentyil'^^nmoiiy matt syl!s minnd.-srasiteii cleal 0not tO sea-,:atf one. thie tficultiwe ,i;of' his apopttorni Wn :laig: before :himi ,ad the tlaci;of. ilm;ost all poor H entytsi p lans I *;-*, ' * :i 'i , ;i . t *" . .* 1 Zeti i; ', ' ;t 3;; * i ,iThe: etrenimg pfi lhe -day; ihen, whmlrh Mn Daly1andhis' lo. had4 psntin etsiamining accouitsi i(ffi4 &A wI; ssadflte t&htaa.- those the family usually passed, when united after the'.day r: M.:Dalyl, sati-thoutghtful1 aad esilent iHefJity seiod\ it.  gaged, w-ithi newspap; E er;Eily anlit Roso ii pokeo ih :hi; s ;:  pser, iasthey .bent over soAie wibroidery-wosk, ad thwpiriltomr ; was untouched. A foreboding feeling :^mOlanchoily'p:.: i h, -,Gare:! eai'stat. n, o 6n leave: som, :one? pot bi'oB ert'h?  whete' the. ged;i the": pure , ;theI Stensitiei mayi tket -htlthr, . evenf rva, tlittle.:from your frow",. /: n ..., t :.. t  -"I .see by th tamprtsf sdad8 tH 6ry IbredkfiggAi;hrough' thiht silenel hibat had ;bedme priifully*lon g," that'John BodkiZ' t is .n ri ed  * J     1 .        ' ," V..r -.^Indbedy^t Esaiidi:pEily .^X; and"st whom-',i " ^ -* i * -,*if;1 ;  -4 Td 4 Mis sHoward- he. repled.-! * "The Speistaes that? -f,; Egai,:-BHenry,'^ sAid Mr.: Daly lfokihg -up; '.-4hat'V iwhat; . youi mtst do;o :!ne of fthese days';.: I all tout-plansgwa hayvb cmrpleotely :.overlbked thits;. i'lf thin:kO? h't d;6bnsi ued; look i ing proudly aind foridly at hisaoni," 3oi oi'x: may-find agifi' fool tendugh ,to haVeydu'.l DonytJ you thihk sow Rose?,'.' ' : :: Po or 2Ro Weha e ithodgh, ell ,- iacdlea.  But bi sitehes hi ni-. her embroidery had s dme'how, ,al igones astray rind sh, ine tent, was Ishe ion. igetting', fhieihr.,to ri'ghs thAt lshe ;did" not hear Mr.:DatyB'qui/estin i :;At least-w: j'udge'sol fborheididfi no tianshwt itc^ f *. ;.-*. *!s - iI; i? ^ 1 * ..n : S **v ^ b ..,/i n " j -11:Henry. stathd, anid his'; eyes turibdridlhy, glinc ed to,' he"e Rose isat., ,:,",Yonu ou1ld noVt wishto .nakeh a fortune;/ huhter , of  m e, 6 ath d r fPlt  i he -rep lie gd-t *i ' " 'stt i . *,* *b i i .,s { f s i N'.e, hno Heriry,I .'a. nswered 'MrBt!ri, y, ':ey.'e a rTae:  that It -hawe e erheld, -in 't-heb, ,eathstt- eon-te-i-ptl :i .Moid'! for- R bid, I should seeyooi, married taobne whonvyoft could:lnottlove,  and .ressec ;?'* bure fortuine iand good familty. re-not';ncvmo.  patible with, these: -, w oulds be #eaR happiness'for bme, to-; see yeou ra'ried. 'A Y blyt   rria'g'e,Ionsidr Ane' : 10   J'.**  *'i 1' I ,:;i i I" ; tiI Ui I *. * ( . - ' J f ,I j hoi Heiirg,1ansuteed -nAt cyr tr i ; i   "6      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. of the greatest blessings. The young, strong affections, fixed upon one object, are not frittered away. Contrasting my wasted youth, with the few brief, happy years of wedded life that were mine, I cannot help thinking how different the former might have been. But five short years," he said, more to himself than to the others, "five very, very happy years." Then he fell to musing, and his thoughts partook of light and shadow, of the sunshine of life, of the darkness of ,the grave, and the conversation that Henry's remarks had led to, was not again resumed. In the pleasure grounds of Dalystown, there was a taste- ful, and, withal, a very substantial summer house; a rustic seat ran round it on the inside, and a rustic table stood in the centre. It was situated at one end of the grounds, and there was a walk leading from it to the lake; in summer this was a favorite retreat of Emily's, but it is neither of her, or the summer house I have now to treat, but of Rose O'Donnell who sit-in it. There is a soft light in those li- quid eyes, the lovely lips part and close, the rich blood mounts to her face, and her bosom, over which her white arms are tightly pressed, rises and falls, as if her heart, surcharg- ed with love, panted to bestow its virgin treasure. But no sound escaped those lips, and after a little the light that filled those eyes melted into tears, which fell in big qrops upon the withered leaves that rustled at her feet. Sorrow had subdued the burning fire of love, then pride, the earthly guardian of woman's virtue, came to her aid. "Good family and fortune," she murmured, while her hands unconsciously shut and opened., "What dream is this I allowed to steal over me until those words awoke me from it? Oh why did I come back? Ah, did I not think that he was dying, and surely this love of mine would not have injured him in the grave, and who would love him in death as I? But why did I remain,-why did I not fly be- fore those old dreams had again twined themselves around my heart, cheating me with their fond, delusive hopes; but they are past. Beautiful 'shadows, you would teach me to stray from the paths of honor and gratitude. Oh, my God, thou sees't how dark and thorny the one is I have to travel over,-strengthen my steps, my God."    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      147 After a little her feelings seemed to calm down, and are- signed melancholy look came to that face, over which so many of the wild passions of the human heart had just passed. "Yes," she murmured, "I will fly from this place, never more to return to it. Oh cruel fate, that- makes me fly from that I love. A shadow darkened the doorway, she raised her eyes., Henry Daly stood before her; Rose started, and, rising from her seat, would have passed out, but Henry, taking her hand said: "Stay, Rose, I am after a long walk, and will rest a mo-. ment in the cool shade, and then return with you to the. house," As he spoke, he led her back to the seat she had quitted, and sat down beside her. There was a hurried tremor in his voice which told Rose that the moment so long dreaded, so long hoped for, (oh the contradictions of our nature,) had arrived. "Tell me, Rose," he continued, (" and forgive me for ask- ing you, but when I lay in that trance, so like death, did you not bend over me, did I not feel your sweet breath?"- But Rose interrupted him, while her face and neck crim- soned, with blushes. "Henry," she said, in a low voice, "I thought that you were dying, you who have been to me a brother,- the only brother I ever knew, and- and"- "It was no dream, then," he passionately broke in--" it was those loved lips that called me back to life. Life of my life, I offer you that which you have snatched from death, for the earth is colder, and darker than the grave without you. I know not," he continued, "why, to-day, I have sought you out to tell you this,--why, like a gambler I risk all on one cast, if it is not that the remarks my father chanced to make last night, have awakened me to the full knowledge of how your image fills my soul, how it yearns for your love. No wealthy suitor am I, Rose, offering to strew your path with riches and pleasure, but rather one who would ask you to share his struggles and his sorrows. The day is not far distant, when this old place, that has borne our name for many a year, may pass away to strang- ers. Misfortunes are crowding around us, Rose, therefora   "-8       . As O ' t) Q LYISW'. it-Yis isrrow, imiyhap: not joy, I ask you: to rshare: with me." Excited by his :love, and the gloomy thou'ghts 4that filled his nind, even" as he confessed it for'the. first time; he,:arose, and, standing before the young girlf, cnmtinu6d" "I am- but a: gloomy lover, 'Rose-; I thought rot to :woo you in such a fashion, but for days past solmething has been; gatheri'ng over me;, a; dark in;ight setti-hg in arouftdiime, with but one brighit, soli-ty star, thyl]ove, my own, my beauti- ful .Rose."  He would have thrown himself at the young g'rl"s feet,- btit she .arose,: and with-a'-low cry; - stlrangelyr, partaklinmg :of anguish and. of- joy threw -h-ersdlf on- his- breast. "All those fdolings she- had invoked-jto helr aid, all the: fragile barriers she had placed around -her 'hea rt, tor n'up, swept :away, overwhelm-ied: by the torreni of liove, that came rushing oer her senses. Wi't-h 'lip to lip, heart 'to heart, life: and life blending together in one ecstatic tfane -ofe ove,: he holds- her in his; arms -. Oh-! the kelifeibus.: delirium: :of that-. mo- ment: -when the love -:ofthe young heart; is--first .eonfessed,- Yes,:hold. her to. thy:heart come weal -or woej sorrow, ,pove-' erty,: death, ;shame'. it'self. "i'You havequaffod- the neCtar of life's golden cup, which man's lips touch but'once, and nevy-: er, wliile: oh- earth , Shall its fragi'aniede pas .away from your soul. Be you ambitious, and-let yoit fanes soar so, high that states and senates shall 'bow dowtn. before you.- Set your heart on ridles, and toil uintqil  the: glittering: gold lies piled -arou-nd: you.; .win. glory- in 'the tented-,field, :or let poesy orowniyou ititts laurel'wreath,'aind beaut y, enam- otured- of your lay, colme to you .wifll witching: gifts -fame,: ri!ches, glory, love' itself,- yea, all -the .treasures of:earth- combined,. could never-bring'to you again the spring tide of happ'ne s. that now- fills :your being. -Hold " her 'to 'thy hbart; yet a little, for quick -as .the shadotv on -the dial such- roements pass. Lo! they-a're already fled!-  Iale,- exhaustedl, tiremnbling in every limb,nRoseO.?Donen ll disengaged: herself fromn her loveri s-erbrace. HtIe:: would, lamree again clasped her in 'his .arms, -but- motioning. him away,' she sank upon the- seat from-n whichl she had-. risen, and burst into tears. In a moment Henry was. sitting by her side, his arm around her waist.   THSE,; '-ALYSrI O. DAL Y.BSTOQX. 149 ; --. "Whly is this;, my; own beloved.:?' heisaid -oothinagly i XMy own,.: my bteautifu n;y, loyok at m--:-d these. tetars,;ar- ling; It seems so. strange to seethee Sweeiw hilemy WhidLe  eart,.ais fi!e8 ..with j:oy, -Andi:thou tlaviest Wei Ro se;. Hea   enblesb .theesdaarl:hg ;what,: rylgfstin? b iay:wi i gif   to thinkl h6uirdpentest giving, thy paos/ienry[.th-at-lttle heart.; :But:-I'canidigiive it: baoki to thei lov. indeed: I eannot.' Helfelt the forma-whieh i: lasewdi s ih. .; -. ,:  '. ,.Ho:W is this, R e+ t he said, ,;l havfeti ghtened yon, Io^e-I harve; been: tob boisterous -in my t;h te pi .esr t /oim, 1'.e a s]e ,  we ;Wa ivll: gq dloEiB ,i-y nd, iteU her. alt, , F tHiaii yu.;3he oagt Iovere  al:aIlit le-mfofr for:mytsake: H: Jfato,.xhl Rae. e she loves syou) se we-,1 al1eady?"!. ',i' ..-.ii .;,-',', t ' .' i!I  ;. :dre iheri :toiwatdi .ahimst, ,ut:su dden! I steafted- antl ,h fley;bootBd;h^ihat hafbeen eoursiigfttohiughi hAiMQein. oaPhed bab 1,:o: s, 'eMartaei is aisaw! ite .loo.. Z Of{,agffagk)igh 4ht: jwms on,-Ahe fevelyti6.i^'{ae ',tuiteid to-bw!;i,',  ::.: .:/ .:' ....:::".::-. {i; Al i gp,: ,adid A ot-lkaiew;,b:efore,;:!etti thit I r-o ,ed iyou7  aidiRa e Pi s.:oAt.. i emaula-i.-wt4 kmooiQn f 'atileash you oBh ttlit fiioX  tni tp io'i -t  - ;ij-[+ Xwt;, ,  **-o. A., L-fi BlmmS ,iati^.^i t w4 +adsiD r ie or love oto "Oh, I know," she continued, ; i have done tvong,:very awrong, bufb GmJio^sAS) wolud h-tave ggpjo -,:rand,., kk pA the e svr'et{bfbbraingt Miy f h' rt 4l'.,!;.'i i,;i- . :. .... ; , . - :*. .' "Oo,'Ro aei l? :-on/ '? : (i .{' --'.1 .-! n,--' .7 . ^:; * * ...:i. - while ,s tteafteB tiogthf,'to $Y b.4h,iJ t ; 4Buti dalingi- sAi ty., aurqy. f id O {l notl ; -:nd iIst?. ,iu, fT ke .rep lrk mbd  itvQlfroit- spfeakpf :efiiig fitw,Vhie. lth$ this mmentt, row (fa^mm e m^.suprein'e3WA"/- i r . -", N owyi Why (bd64viyi Pe saixthesp 9v cirL -T Th^n i pausing .for, a -moment, t'o U pet i hex,: t4oghta, '- a cown ued i afiraimier Voieie', , ipi   (;  ^  j '"Henty, :I, am.-an fophan, NE ok id^dhve ltot:loyvei,;  be loved;bbyr i Frrm nY .ery4.. .. e l'od;.y r i fag ehas filled my: hearrt. I; ;tte.. inonuight: On .a, . a.:, sa b .auti f..1t as. yo our vfto y No- othor. ;oveB shgll ,ev y [eter- t:is heeath But ..fere, are :other things s,: A 'nk .- S J g4g l, qvl eyy but holier. ..,; They:-.ar e datyi gratitudoe ,ad i- ono,.r. hear .W. my ,bel o vedtlen rys fo m, : i. Qot,; ut e. n .r p. tri '?.' :: ... "    ' '  : 7 '  ,  ,  .   150      .THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. (for he had endeavored more than once to do so). Not two miles from this, Henry, almost within sight of the house to which you would bring me as your bride, there is a lonely churchyard, and in it a lofty monument, towering amid the lowly graves that surround it; as if those who placed it there would fain deny that even death can level all distinc. tions between those of noble and of lowly birth. It is your ancestral monument, Henry, and close to it is a grave, whose tombstone records that it was erected by Godfrey Daly, in memory of a faithful servant; and, beneath it, lie the ashes of my father,-stay, stay, love, a little yet, I know what you would say, dear Henry. You would forget all this. In your eyes, it should be no barrier to our loves. But listen, dear Henry; the master did more than raise a tombstone over his faithful servant. He took that servant's orphan child, and became to her a father. She shared his home, his love, equally with his own children. Oh! you would not have me," she continued, with a heightening color, " to be such'an ingrate, as to bring sorrow to the heart of him who acted thus, or forgetful of that honest pride which should be equally the property of the peasant and the prince." "But my father loves me too well, Rose, to destroy my happiness for this false pride of birth," answered Henry. "He loves you too, Rose. Oh, you know him not," "Henry," she replied, ' I know his noble nature well; I know that he would" sacrifice his own feelings, prejudices, happiness, for those he loves. But is it for me, the child of his bounty; for you, the stay and pride of his declining years, to ask him to do so? Wrong not me, wrong not yourself, by such a thought. Nay more, dear Henry, what I have now said has been present to your own mind. It is this which has clouded your spirits, and saddened your voice, even as you proffered to me your generous love." Rose was right. The objections she urged did not appear to him now for the first time, though he had endeavored to banish, rather than to dwell upon them. As she supposed, they had hovered around him, even as he confessed his love, and were absent only for that moment when her pent up love, breaking down all barriers, went rushing to his   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      15 arms. Now he heard them echoed, as it were, by her who had just shown how great her love was for him; and they fell upon- his spirit like the knell of hope. As he stood, crushed, before the young girl, they two seemed to have changed their natures. She had gained strength, as she proceeded; her voice had grown firm, and there was a flush upon her cheek; while he stood before her, pale, dejected, with his hand resting on the table for support. He took her hand gently between his own. "Spare me now, Rose," he almost whispered; " what you say may be all true. If so, I will endeavor, not to equal, bult to imitate you. I can- not judge clearly now. But a moment ago, I thought the world very beautiful, and now, now-. But, Rose," he ex claimed, in a hurried tone, "you will not leave us? Oh God I no!--you will not do that,-you will not leave your poor Henry; you will be a sister to him. Oh, speak to me, Rose, say, will not this be so?"He knelt at her feet. Poor Rose, she twined her fingers in his soft, rich hair, while her tears fell fast upon his face, turned up to her's. "Leave me now, dear Henry," she whispered, ' I cannot think, I cannot answer you now. Oh, my love, spare me, too. Go love, go." As she spoke, she stooped down and kissed his forehead. I Her lover arose; for an instant he stood gazing upon her; then catching her in his arms, he imprinted a burning kiss upon her lips, and the next moment she was alone.   : 12      St DADS W DAY tWmN. ,       , . .. ' ' .CHaPTER: xv .,  On. -the same, day that UHeny had&Renfe:Md his love to Rose, o  Ol. Doctor',Kelly :joi:ed the tafily, awner 'party at ,Dal-ystpw,. \ Ilis/preaceWa : w a grta reBlief. to th lovers. EHenry foundd it: almost ,imspossihl: to ,-jii ain thegeneral conver ation; iWfhq f :,p  ,t , to isn asr wer, wague, Sometiames si looks wauderedto w^Be. ,Rose at,and whean their eyes met, the. eCtico spot upon 4ex. Chekek-^r-ed-unti neck ad ro w wqrerv puffused with hlus1-. . I, - Mr. PalyS eangag ia ;cqaversationi ,th the.: dCot, re. marked,ip' ;ht this.,;; Not, , Jthi ,latr ,.By -nature-:a keen .observ. elf,! . profession ha made hir of ok tt lread- ing, from outwardasipns, the hiddn emoio;,p of the heart. A few hurried, confused answers from Henry, and d aglpaae at Rpose, had *enabled him. if,guesgs avery. aear the truth; but hzis was too good and,refined, naturei to atgw;hiw t hint, ev en in jesh, ete kqowaedge, $tus aqulrcwdi; On the co trary, he eerted himself to. the utpost, .t prevent others from observing their embarrassment; and, while he chatted politics and country news with Mr. Daly, he kept up a run- ning fire of small talk and jokes with Emily. "What spirits you are in to-day, doctor, to be sure," said the latter. "For my part, I wonder you doctors can ever be so." "And why, pray?" he asked. "You see so much suffering and sorrow," she replied. ,' Pooh," said the doctor, " there are two sides to the pic- ture. You know Tom Redington, Godfrey, he was married to a daughter of a tenant of yours, some years ago?" ' Yes," said Mr. Daly, "what of him?" "He was knocked down by this fever that has been run. ning through the country," replied the doctor, " but after   ;--   ' , 3  OF', DA'MSS., o : StOWN. -'33 ahard figh;t he conquetedit.'; I 'alled to^ ee ohiwmtod tay, and found him weak enough still, sitting at his dood: withl  one of hMis;little.'hdilren orfl hs kn1e. f? Well, Tom,? said I, - ,how flo y on u get .ion' ;' Oh, bravely Idditor, he.;rtepliea. I the .blood is; flowing thrbtigh my heart; o. cetmoe, :id it's no wonder that it should, for a joyful sight met lA'r y eyes this mornig, whien I staggeredi t: the' d0;:. '.Whth Was it, Tom?' I asked. L Look at my bata thete iii:nth field;, d' L'- ; tor,' h. replied; isif;it be"atifully ut inaalst:ake :'. ', Sure I neednI tell' you' tha; I1 -did-nt .db iit mTyse lf; :thAt IE-ahad  neither haind; awcl;or part, in: th doIing :of it. ; But th-e neigih- bors catne this imorning, and before th6 la-k Was risen frolh ; the sod, they hx;,idt .ut doewin,: and befote wo" o'dock, by * reasonw of its& being so ripe, iit iwas ktacekeid; and , they,' etfled -it, asy-3ou isee it:iow; beforeI leaving, -he'fiiid^; T-hey wei, e afraid:. fi tihe-rfever to comne nelt Ori nigh th h6.h u tei btit when- they: saw me at th-e door ,ey .ave ithrele Cheers.: -Oh, docto, II thought' the .sight ;iould: leae ,:iiy;eyes, and I felt bad entirely, for who do you think was thi fitst ri t;fb fieldl this morningi, as: Mry tells mle -the uhiter $a onei butt Dan ' SulliVan, and :and; I bitter           o en cmies i ;sibe, w'e wee, gor- -soons,'.: rHow was .that. Toml.! asked;* 'TWie n'everri!otib of me couldi tell youi the, right, of' it; ldottorjhe ie^plied. -There' was an old rghudge between; o-urtgrahdfathtfs 'and fathersi and- we everand,.always kept it up. MaaNy a tussle we have had, at fair and market. He was a, good boOyd too,; an' faithi h'e: lift:me amark ll1habave to my dying-dtay.! Many's the, time ,I!ogedo to!meet him: to try, over and .,ver again, which of us ,was ;the better rgan; lbut,-doctor, I never longed to meet ,him s6 mtich -as: I; donowto t'ake- him: by the hantd, to ask him for his loyal love% and to let bygoneis be: byg6njes between us. M Mary tells me, doctor, that when she sdw -me on the mending hand, she began-to 'thinlK a;bout thei crop, andi she ;h-ad nohtopeso af saiing- it."; ' '  "' Oh h ;Tom asthore' i replied his wife,: I I was fretting about it, to be sure, 'ut I :nverr lostIhope slare, I kniew that Gobd-was, good-. t:. ': :: : , ' .. : ::- i ('( True for youi Mary,' replied her husband: ' God ;is good, ever and always good, and if it was His blessed will to take myself :and" the 'rop ftom'yb" aridi the ;childrehn he' o   154       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, open some other door for you and them, praise be to His name.' "I assure you," continued Doctor Kelly, " hardened old fellow as I am, this little scene softened me, and gave me a store of contentment that will last me, 1 trust, a month at least." "How beautiful," said Mr. Daly, "is the reliance of the poor on the goodness of God." "Yes," replied the doctor, "the Bishops of London and Canterbury are, no doubt, learned and pious men; so are the missionaries who supply the cannibal's table with fresh meat. I am told that one of the latter will dispute points of theology with the savage who may chance to be basting him for dinner. Their brothers here, a degenerate race, who I am inclined to look upon as humbugs, may turn up their fat eyes at, what they style the ignorant idolatry of out poor, but when I start on my long journey, give me the beautiful, simple trust, which taught Mary Redington that God is good." After dinner the ladies rose to leave the room. "Girls," said the doctor, "I will soon follow you, I want to have a tune on the piano before I go, and since the country was proclaimed* I have to keep regular hours." "Doctors belong to the privileged class," said Mr. Daly. '"Yes, Papa," replied Emily, when they are not suspi- cious characters." The doctor shook his finger at her, as she left the room, and shortly afterwards joined her and Rose in the drawing room. When he entered, Emily was playing on the piano, and Rose sat at one of the windows. The old man went up to the latter, ' I have a message for you, Rose, from my wife," he said. "For me, doctor . " said Rose. "Yes," she is awfully vexed at your never going to see her since your return; she desired me to ask you if you waited for her to pay a formal visit." "Oh no, doctor, I am most anxious to go see her." "And what is to prevent you, I should like to know? * In a proclaimed district persons had to be in their houses at a certain early hour, after nightfall.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWNB      155 I shall tell you what you must do: Get Emily to drive over with you to-morrow, and if you want to make your peace with my wife, let me tell her that you are coming to spend a few days with her. Let this be so, Rose," he continued, lowering his voice, "I wish to speak with you, my child." Rose looked up into the old man's face, and as she en- countered its intelligent and benign expression, she cast down her eyes and blushed, as she replied, "I will go, doctor." "That is right," he replied, in his usual cheerful tone. t( Emily, have you heard our arrangements?" ("No, doctor, what are they .?" "Rose is going to spend a few days at the Grove with Mrs. Kelly, and you are to bring her over to-morrow." ' Oh, indeed," said Emily, " although I find I am not in- eluded in the invitation." "You-no indeed, I keep too regular a house to allow such a madcap to remain in it, besides my wife might grow jealous; she knows I am weak on dimples, and those arei two beautiful ones you have, Emily." "Upon my word, doctor, you are geting quite gallant," replied Emily. "Do I not tell you I am always so when 'dimples are in question? I call them Cupid's sentry boxes." God bless me," he continued, after looking at his watch, "I had no notion it was so late, I must be off. Mind, girls," he said, as he shook hands with them, "Mrs. Kelly will ex- pect you over to-morrow, and now, good night." "Good night, doctor," each of them answered. To me there is something very beautiful in the unreserved confidence of two pure, innocent-minded, young girls. That night, before retiring to rest, Rose acquainted Emily with all that had taken place during her interview with Henry, With quickened pulse, downcast eyes, and burning cheeks, she told how love had betrayed her, and as she did so, sit- ting in that quiet chamber, her own words frightened her, and maidenly reserve, taking up arms against her, made her weep for her weakness. Yet, how earnestly, how truth- fully she pleaded that she was unconscious of the force of that love, of the weakness of the barriers she had placed around it.   1b5B6     THE :DALMS ;O4tDA1Y-STOWXNt Thes -wi-tha prud lip,: she told' t ho:w h eo 'had rejected Henryrs smiti; that if, for a moment, love had-!bettayed, dtty 'andihoinor had come to her, aid,;and as she spokeS, how wist. ,funlly she ever and aiton lookSIe'!at:Emily. Oh. h t if the latteo could but sayj :' Rose you tt agni fy he obstactes that mre -between youa 'and Henryd th ere- is yet roonm t h-pe; how :quickly that prod lhp. wouldi quiver,^ and soften ,into lov B, at :Emily could' not..d;o:- thi s, tgd when ROgee hadi ceasi speaking, she could but fold her in her arms, and endeavr to! soodtliher excited feelings, '.: :. : *. After a little - while, Rso.: remksed, i:ld ard was ' iit, ;iot thoughtful and kind of Dr Kelly, ;to askf me, ovb t6. the Grovea . --Oh, I ^ wiglagddo':ghjiut rnw2:v ': : - .? "Why, Rose, doese thddctorkhoiw anythinsaof this'?9Iasftc "Not from me," replied Rose,' b':t; ;Ihm:.sirei: he ihs Wgaesseed it, '- Hbw I]i rdrat ,krio w.-fo i I saw :inim ,-during din neorel ^.kinu ,atH onr,i ta ua dt th-t6r aati im:'l iAa d! wlea he gave :me ,thei iniTtatioh rfi) stooped?-idiown' and saidll in;: S^,i h meaning, fatherly torierl duticormei Rose:': I iwrn to' pe-a WthIth lye!' J^Ao owBd^a^n        ^^S^ ' "I am very glad to think that he does," rejpedl iEmilai rsHe- ;is sh0golrd andwise 'ntdl talc uteuba- ; iiteleft-,fh us all. I have often iaehff ipaa sJihbeSiwduldisodneet ae akDtioe tiat thgt otl #fai^oth'eriTrson', tWhom hae[ttalster "aional , ,i7s ni-turd, tooj likem :Un5l T bys e-er-bbektoc the!nfotthtiite'- .obtakedhelte e ar ar ,mima.?l,ri -2. .ii^ .:: :,' "He has'khown Isorowitooi (Emnly-,1 said tRo' . 1is.! "Yes," rdptied -Emily7,; : a: grfea-t sorrow,: t hd: .sarhe ihch poor papa, has jtist esbaped, the death-of ani only Iand,'e- loved soni-. Oh: cahn 'wei b'e levergirateful ,enoiugh. -to iGo4 continued' lie young girl,- elitsping her hands,:': dir sparing HenrY to us?. Whatwouuld haoe becomeiof papa lhad the lost him'tng Nori :would :we have had the (onsblation 4that I Kelly-hais, for. his son lost hislffe in 'the 'cause of;liimanityi while tIeniry:.-- - Emilty :paused with"a shudder, aS t't dinger-:her brother had, lately :esoaped- from ciame :to her mnind amd .fir some, time. afterwards-..both" girl-s;sat silen each itroubled with sad- thoughts - at length: ithe; fire fallin in tht, grate. flling- the r'om, :for-;a:lmomnat with, a ruddy light, and then leaving it in darkness, aroused them,.    THAIN fB PL OFIVAm&fIW DALB Y ' Emily arose, -ad, going to the table) :lighted a camtde;: for: they had been conversin g ;by .the :pleasant light' of the fireF, Looking at her watch, she exclainled, ';: h6w ate it, isti dear Rose; I have been :dreaming all kind, of sad'things, umntil 'I have grown, oh, so nervous. It is time, lovei,we shoul-d g0 tO -st .   . - - ; -- . . U',  . -,:: 7; it  Rose raised her beautiful head; her face. wss- sad, mbu;t-, composed-; 'What; she. had:, hoped ed  d .an' feared for had :come to pass; -she and Henry had confessed their loves, -and for - a ,moment: they- had tasted -the. - bliss,-of ithat j confession. The trial: she, had then passed through. broughL to- lighti and developed the strength of her nature, and-a few -hours' had chariged'the' timid, -dreaming1- loving girl into the self- possessed, self-sacrifiling, truthful wolniam As; she--looked  up she was struick with the .pallor of IEmily's face. ':';  ' WhatI is the matter, dear'? she,saidl, 'youet have been weeping.   .           . ..  ... .... "' I do not know, : Rose, .replied,. Emily, " it is very fool-: ish of me, but I;.have had such foreboding. thoughts--a dread of some great misfortune .bout -to happen. 'Do you" believe in:such things, Rose-?. :; " ..  '" suppose we all do at times," answered heri companion; ':btii ti ha ve made yo-v; nmervo Us, lov-e, w itfh my selfish sorlro w, and'itis that 'whichlhas :give youtliose shad thoughts; . but. ail will be;weth-: Eimilyy. Henry, in.:t;ime; , w:ill forget, this love, he . ill-:be ihappy in knowi:ng!heg : lhas-done- hIis:;,dutv, Idh HErimily,'" she. continue-d, with -afaim t smile ;" am no  heroine of romance, -to pine and mnope, maklding .e very. O le rollud me.' Ilunhppy,. tut a plain, country-bred 'l il, wit, h a  trelat de-al- of 'love in my heart,. and, I tIrIust, a .ithe ;ecomion. !ense to lkeep it from-running away-:with me," ' ,..  o "Y ou are &, good, sensible ;lgirl, Rose," repli ed -lEmily,: . 'and-always had ;more-:sense -than most girls; I. never; was i love or- had "a lover, :but-I- think, kad H s:$uoch aone a*s lenrtr, it whuld- break ny lheardt-to part, with:h .'. - ; A. look of anguish passed .over: RIosPes$fae, : ut;-so qnii1Ckly 'ad it come and igone thatit was uannoticed -by oer i friand, 'nd ler roicfe-was almost cheerful :a:,:she replied, ;  "N'iever had a lover, Emily! Thoeni to-night we . esiall, : ;             ,      ;   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. speak no more of love or lovers. And now tell me what hour you will accompany me to the Grove?" "Then you wish to go to-morrow?" "Oh yes, Emily; indeed I should have gone to see Mrs. Kelly before this." "Well, then, after breakfast I will be at your service," replied Miss Daly. Little more passed between the two young friends until they retired to rest. Rose slept well that night, and her's were happy dreams, for, at times, a sweet, childlike smile parted her red lips. Oh, Sleep! "Well, sir, wlat are you going to say about it Sonm more nonsense to fill your book? Pish." "Dear sir, have you ever read Jacob Faithful? Well, then, take it cool. I was only about remarking that sleep is a very excellent, refreshing thing, if you do not take it lying on your back, after eating a good supper, and I fear me, you have a weakness for the latter. But you have been pishing at my poor book the half hour past." "' Yes, sir, because I hate all this twaddle about love,- love. Pish, humbug." "Nay, by my word, you are in error, worthy sir. Love is not a humbug. It has been on the earth, ever since Adam awoke in the garden, and seeing Eve, exclaimed, 'she is bone of my bone.' And, despite crinoline and hoops, it will be still on earth, when you and I and the three-and-a. half-per-cents in England, and the bank porter, and the bears and stags of Wall Street, and Wall Street itself, shall have crumbled into dust. Nay, more, practical, matter- of-fact, respectable, smart man that you are, you have been, all your life, as blind as a mole; and as you toiled forward to reach that golden tree, whose bitter fruit is guarded by thorns which lacerate the heart, oh fool that you were, you have been trampling on flowers, the least one of which was worth a 'wilderness of monkeys,' and a world of eagles." "Drat the man, he is as mad as Don Quixote, when he mistook windmills for giants. Why, papa has never opened his book. Ah, is me, who doubts that love exists? But what can he know of the sweet delirious passion, who makes   his heroine, if she deserves the title, as matter of fact as a washerwoman?" "Dear lady, suppress your censure and your crinoline for a few moments, and let me sit down by your side, while I confess I can see no earthly reason why your own washer. woman (by the by, she has put a spot of iron mould on this lace collar.) should not, years ago,-long before she had left her father's humble cottage,-have felt this kind of love, which I have so weakly endeavored fo portray. Because it was a fine, healthy love, very unlike that which is crea- ted in hot ball-rooms, by the delicious schottische, and requir- ing not the adjuncts of remorseless fathers, hysterics, and smelling salts. It was a love, growing from childhood, in two young hearts. A thing so pure and holy, that were it not still of earth, it might have mingled with the breath of angels, as they sung before the throne of God. Next morning, at breakfast, Emily acquainted her father with Rose's intention of going to spend some days at Doctor Kelly's. "What, Rose," said Mr. Daly, "going to spirit yourself away again?" "I have not been to see Mrs. Kelly sir, since my return," she replied, " and the doctor asked me, last evening, to go over." "Oh it is but right, my child," replied Mr. Daly, "that you snould spend a few days with the old lady, and you would be no pet of the doctor's if you neglected doing so, but I advise you, Rose, while you remain at the Grove, to wear very old clothes; you will have to play several games of romp with the young people. You, of course, they will seize upon, as their lawful vassal, as I assure you nothing hut my incompetency saved me the last time I was over there." "Indeed, sir," said Rose smiling. "Yes indeed," continued Mr. Daly. "I happened to take a stroll into the garden, where I found little Fred, making hieroglyphics on one of the walks; he came up to me and surveyed me from head to foot; he was evidently examin- ing whether or not I was too old and stiff for a game. With a deep sigh, he had just settled, in his own mind, that I was   10W      TUB PRAIY pS J PAtikV^ r past service, wifen? hisbrotkher .hbles:!entedr the garden;.: Away scampered the little fellow to meet him, athe;same ti"mepointing hae ;to me, and. exelaimiuing,. as he ran along, ,i I say, harley, do, you ;tkiak he ,Quld aplay sotch-hop .o .As it .ishy happened, baoes breakfast was-aver, Tom Gallah erir wti aa feri returning fromt the. Postoffi.e. .. Oh that weay .mail bag :which .Tomn was fo ,prewdibh ing^in;tus ted with] ] Poor :fellow he,: wulad have; tiled it wib' .diamonds, for his master, had h power to do sO.;. Yetc Tom -asewdly suspected, that he, was: not always the, bearer. of.:welcome new;s. ; In, fine weather, Mr.. Daly -w .in:t; he a;habift ofmeet- ing .him before he reached the, heuse and takin ;out any letters, thant might be in,-the: bagl, Now TQm ,culd neither read:r write, or distingish one. thnd-writing from- anoth. er, bt h could read, his master'$s ,ooqtenance, -and as, Mr. Daly glanced at. the .upersciptioas. ofi his, letters, Tom. would scan his faa e,a 4 ,afterwarda b .; able tor ;aamwer to the: c oqk I (whose long service in: the family; entediher to confidence in family matters,) what kind of news he was after bringing from .nthepost-ofce. 1ieohdft a mgnne:, too, of judging a letter by its shape, size and fold, :and Henry D aly's, letter he,could pick, out; fraom athousaand, . , b All unconscious Twas Tom that he Icommitteda I fault in thus prylng into his master's affairs; nor in truth did he, for he had no individual identity ;-he was but the shadow of his nmaster's fortunes., There was no meum :for poor; Tom, it was 'all tuem.. If he, saw a fine .horse, he .wished, it was r. Hey y's,. The: heard thatt a gentleman had come in for a large fortune, he wished suchlua hadifallen to the mas- ter, and I verily ljelieve, had, one kled him why ,he did not wish it0 for. himself, he woldnot .have understood the question, or, most likely, would .answe, " sure its all the same to wish it for the master ;" and if'Tom did make a con- fidant of the cook, my re aders must: pot supposea- that; he was iafllenec ed,.in any .wlay, by the patronage,; which her delicate, position to!he, laader, left in her ,hands. No, though, tte, ,ook might .reseml ble, the Chancellor of the Exchequer,l honest Tom OGall hfr in :nowise resembled those honorable gentle m ge nem who lie, and fawn, and grovel, ahd pim;p, aroad4 ,government larders. But, to use LTomI's %   THEa PBLYS UOF DALSB'TUWN. ,UL own words, "wasn't she born and bred in the family, and own nurse to Miss Emily besides '." This morning Mr. Daly met Tom near the hall door, there was but one letter, and the latter eyed it suspiciously, as his master opened it. "The curse of Cromwell on you, for one bag," said Tom, as he hung it up in the harness room. Faith, af I was the master, I'd let you hang there, until you got greenmowlded, and let the dirty letters find their own way, or let it alone. The dickens a one of me can understand it at all at all. The devil a quarer thing ever I seen, than to be sending for what vexes and troubles a body when it comes." Mr. Daly returned to the parlor with an open letter in his hand, which he handed to Henry. When the latter had read it he said: "I have made preparations for this, sir. The tenants on Murry's farm have promised to pay a portion of their rents to-day, so I will ride over there." "You are doing wonders, Henry," said Mr. Daly, bright- ening up. "I think, Emily, he has got to be such a man ot business he will revive the fortunes of our old house, and atone for the culpable follies of those who have preceded him; my own, not the least amongst them." Mr. Daly had commenced in quite a cheerful tone, but his voice was sad ere he concluded. Henry looked at Rose. There was a fine calmness in the beautiful eyes that met his, which came to his spirit like " refreshing waters." He arose, and leaning on the back of his sister's chair said: "Father, your children will have no compliments paid to them, at your expense. I speak for Emily and myself, when I say that -were we to toil through a whole long lifetime, having no reward but to see you happy, your being so would be reward enough. Nor would such toil repay you a tithe of the tender love you have bestowed upon us." ( And papa knows all this very well," said Emily, going up to her father, and raising on tiptoe to kiss his cheek. A tear glistened in the old gentleman's eye. "Here is a conspiracy, Rose," he said, " to make an old fellow happy, which should not be pardoned; for you know that they are very, very old offenders." Just then a servant entered the room with a message ... "   162      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. from the groom who wished, to know if Henry intended riding out that day. "I think I will ride Fox over to Murry's" said Henry, " he is getting too much idleness." "Yes, sir," replied the servant, " that's the reason the groom sent me to ask you. He says that the horse wants a little work." "Well, James, .have him saddled and brought round," replied Henry, " and he shall have some." "Of course you will cross the country," said Mr. Daly, "as you ride Fox. Be home then, in good time; for, take an old hunter's advice, and never put your horse at a fence unless he has good light to measure his distance." Long after Fox was led round, Henry Daly delayed his departure, expecting that Rose might give him an opportu- nity of speaking with her ere she left. He knew, of course, that she was but going to the Grove for a few days; yet there was a vague fear in his heart, that she might not return; and he wished to tell her that if she would but remain with them, this would content him, for many a long day, at least. Rose, perhaps, guessed what was passing in her lover's mind, and her woman's nature made her see its fallacy. They had passed the Rubicon, that divides swedt dalli. ance from love confessed, and entered on the battle field, where to remain, was to be vanquished. Not, indeed, that she had any fixed plan for the future, but she determined to confide all to Dr. Kelly, and to be guided by him. Until she had 'done so she purposely avoided giving Henry an opportunity of speaking with her in private, lest either might be tempted to make some promise which would sub- sequently but add to the tangled web circumstances had woven around them. At length Mr. Daly grew anxious, that Henry should take his departure, lest he would have to return by night. The old gentleman had taken several turns to and from the window, and standing there now, he said: "Henry, Fox is becoming impatient to have his master on his back ; see how he paws up the sand." Then leaning out of the window, he addressed the horse. "So ho, boy, are you afraid, if your master remains much longer, he will have to be giving you some road work'."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN., o    s "Surely Rose," said Henry, in a low voice, you are but going to Dr. Kelly's?" "That is all indeed, Henry," she replied. "And you will return in a few days?" "I intend to do so." Mr Daly, having drawn in his head from the window heard this last question. "Oh," he said, "I have but given Rose, one week to stay away from us; if she does not return at the end of that time, I will go for her myself." "Well," thought Henry, as he vaulted into the saddle, "there is nothing to prevent me. from going over to the Grove to morrow." And so thinking, he set spurs to Fox and was soon out of sight. But after a short burst of speed, he slackened his pace to a walk and the reins fell listlessly on his horse's neck. Quickly as Henry had taken his departure, Rose retired to her room, which commanded a view of the park. With straining eyes, she watched the form of her lover until it was lost to sight. Then, she was no longer, the self-pos- sessed, heoric woman, but the weak, fond girl, and cover- ing her face with her hands, she wept as if her heart would. break. CHAPTER   XVI. IN WHCH THE READER IS MADE ACQUAINTED WIT1H DOCTOR KEL- "Y'S FAMLY, HS DOMESTIC ARRANGEMENTS, AND WITH MANY OF HS ABSURD, OLD FASHONED IDEAS. While Emily and Rose are preparing to set off for the Grove, I will introduce the reader to Dr. Kelly's family. It   164     , THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. consisted of his wife, a lady some years younger than her husband, and four grandchildren, the eldest of whom was a boy about ten, and the youngest, a little girl, scarcely five years of age. These were the children of his deceased son, whose death Emily had alluded to in her conversation with Rose the previous evening. He was the only one of a nu- merous family who had survived the years of childhood, and in the promise which his youth had given, it seemed as if his parents would, in a measure, be compensated for the loss of their other children. At an early age he graduated at Trinity College, Dublin, and then commenced his studies for the medical profession. While walking the hospitals, (as it is termed,) his talents and the skill displayed by him in a critical surgical operation confided to his care, brought him under the notice of the then leading members of the medical profession in the Irish metropolis, and on taking his degree he was invited to become resident surgeon in one of the hospitals. Here he soon distinguished himself both as a lecturer and an operator. How the old man's eyes would glisten as he read of some successful operation performed by his son! "Egad, Mary," he would say to his wife, "I must brush up. The puppy will be down here one of these days, puz- zling me with some of his new theories." In two years after taking his degree, young Doctor Kelly commenced private practice. Shortly after this, he married, and in six years he found himself at the head of a very ele- gant elegant establishment, with fair hopes of ranking, in time, amongst the most distnguished members of his pro- fession. "But the ways Of God are not the ways of men." About this time, that great scourge of Ireland, (among her many other scourges,) typhus fever, broke out, in its most violent form, in Dublin. Doctor James Kelly was untiring in his 'attendance on the poor, both in their houses and in the hospitals. At length his overtaxed strength gave way, and he himself was stricken with the disease. When the news reached his father, the latter posted up to Dublin. Those were not the days of railroads, and Thought had not, as yet, packed his carpet bag, to go a riding with Miss Light- ning. He found the young wife in close attendance on her   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     165 husband; she would let no other hands but her's minister to his wants. Much as her friends feared for her, no earth- ly power could induce her to swerve from her duty; and for a time her love sustained her. But the fever plague breathed upon her, and within six weeks from the time doc- tor Kelly left home to attend on his son, he returned, bring- ing with him four orphans, two of whom were carried in the arms of nurses. Holding a hand of each of the others, the doctor alighted from the carriage in which he had traveled, and advanced to the house, on the doorsteps of which, his wife, with ashy cheeks, waited to receive them. Two young servant girls supported her on either side, sobbing forth from time to time, "God comfort you, poor mistress." The old man went up to his wife. "4 They are both dead, Mary," he said. Then, as if aroused by the sound of his own voice, he let go the hands of the children, and clasping the faint. ing form of his wife, exclaimed, in impassioned tones: "Oh wife of my heart, and woman of many sorrows, pray to God for strength; for see, see, He has still left us work to do on earth." And He, in whose chastisements there is ever mercy, did give them strength. The children of their youth, seemed restored to them, in these beloved orphans; and the calm sunset of life presaged a glorious morrow. In worldly wealth, the doctor had no cause for uneasi. ness. His landed property, which came to him by inherit- ance, gave him an income of over six hundred pounds a year, and an extensive practice had enabled him, from time to time, to lay up considerable sums of money. For some years before his introduction to the reader, he had given up practice, except among the poor and- a few families whom, he alleged, *' would not allow themselves to be killed by any other doctor." I know not, but that in speaking of the family at the Grove, I should include the servants, for, most assuredly, in all family arrangements, not alone did the doctor study their comforts, but he also took a deep interest in their welfare. Most of them had spent the greater portion of their lives in his service, and he remembered pretty well having been punished by his father for the want of proper   166      THE DALYS OF DALYSTo 1N. dignity displayed by him in playing marbles with the now grey-headed old butler, who stood daily behind the doctor's chair, enjoying the latter's jokes so exceedingly while he stood there, and repeating them with such gusto, after- wards, in the servants' hall. But it did not require a life- long service, to make the doctor feel an interest in those who daily ate his bread, and ministered to his wants; he had been known, on several occasions, to take an active part in the marriages of young housemaids of not more than two or three years' standing. Neither did he or Mrs. Kelly see anything very horrid or ungrateful in a pretty girl's falling in love, and parting both with herself and them at the same time; on the contrary, foolish old couple, that they were, they thought it quite natural and right. So, on such occasions, the doctor was wont to ask the priest to dinner, and have the young people married in his own house, "It will give the girl respect in the eyes of her husband's friends, Mary," the doctor would remark to his wife, "and save the poor things the money that they will require for housekeeping," he himself giving the bride away, having previously made her a handsome present. Then fol- lowed much dancing in the parlor and in the servants' hall, and the doctor retired to bed about twelve o'clock, very hot, very tired, and very happy, while a thousand blessings hov- ered around his pillow as he slept. He rises refreshed, at early morning, having thought of a little plan for the benefit of the young couple, and he cannot rest until he has informed them of it. So he sends the boy, whom he meets driving the cow into the yard, down to Pat Lynskey's, to see " if the fellow is awake yet, and to tell him, that he, the doctor, wants to speak to him. With a a broad grin on his face, the boy scampers ofi, and presently the bridegroom appears, looking very bashful, and sheepish. After a little innocent bantering, the doc- tor commences to speak to him very seriously, and then in- forms him of the plan he has formed. The man hurries home to his young bride, to tell her all that the doctor is going to do for them. And then another host of blessings, fresh and pure as the morning air which bears them, is wafted to the old man as he stands in his S-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      167 lawn, and, kissing his cheek, sends him into the house with a very keen appetite for breakfast. From all this it must be inferred, that on a vacancy occur- ring in the doctor's establishment, there were many appli- cants. But, in selecting from those, he never interfered with Mrs. Kelly, and that good lady prided herself not a little. on the happy selections she almost invariably made. -But the truth was, they were not a whit better than the generality of their' sisters on entering the doctor's service; it was the kind treatment they met there that made them so afterwards; they found themselves no longer walled off from all sympathy with those-above them in station. Per- haps it was the doctor's medical knowledge which enabled him to discover that Lady Betty Ponsonby's maid had feel- ings and nerves, and the senses of taste and smell, in com- mon with Lady Betty herself. So when she was dismissed by her ladyship and refused a character, on account of object-- ing to, wash a little, nasty French poodle, the doctor spoke in her favor to Mrs. Kelly, and the latter engaged her as maid to her little grandchild, Fanny; and the girl afterwards was in the habit of saying that there was as much differ- ence between her then present mistress and Lady Betty, as between the nasty poodle and blue-eyed Fanny., Now all this made some families in the neighborhood (who starved their servants, on board wages, driving them to acts of petty larceny, to support nature,) declare: " That Doctor Kelly was enough to ruin all the servants in the world." And they looked upon the contented, jolly-look- ing servant who drove the doctor's gig, as a kind of red- republican ; and dreaded his entering their houses, lest his very appearance would cause a revolution, in their little despotic governments. Here I take the liberty, of offering some advice to my bachelor readers, one and all. If you find yourself inclined to fall in love with a young girl, before you are gone too far, and while you still retain a portion of your senses, re- mark how she treats the servants in her home, and how they seem to feel towards her. If you find her overbearing to those below her in station, oh! slide! slide!! slide!!! It is the fashion, now-a-days to give prize pictures, &c., &c. I   168      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOW.  have no such things to bestow, but I give the following prize truth, instead: The girl who is disliked by servants will never make a home happy. "But, sir, I love Angelina, and though her fine, haughty nature causes her to be disliked by the class you mention, still I love her." "Ah, your case is hopeless, my friend. Let's see now,- have you paid for this book?" "Yes, sir, I have." "Very good, then go and hang yourself." "Hang myself, sir?" "Yes, sir, you may as well do it now, in a quiet, decent way, as to be making a fuss about it,after you get married." "But, sir," exclaims another of my readers, for I have them of all' classes, (oh, glorious and pocketfying idea,) my Sophy never had a servant."' "Give me your hand, old fellow, marry her, marry her at once, most likely she wants one." But though Doctor Kelly could manage his domestic es. tablishment as he pleased, without any one presuming to interfere with him, his conduct, in other matters was highly culpable, and well deserving the censure of an enlightened community. It showed too, that for a well informed man, in most things, he was shamefully ignorant of political economy, which noble science, Lord John Russell brought to such perfection, in after years, that by a strict regard to its principles, he was enabled,'in the face of a Christian world, without shedding one drop of blood, to murder over half a million of human beings. ( Did he go to the gallows, sir'" "No sir, he went to church, and sang the doxology." Indeed, I believe the doctor was a little sore about his ignorance in this matter; for, being pressed one day on the subject, by a philanthropic gentleman, who had a plan for making stone soup for the poor, the doctor lost temper, and consigned political economy to the lower regions. He had, actually, a staff of poor pensioners, men and women, ( Vagrants,--Victoria, chapter 105, verse 49, amen,) who dined at the Grove, every Sunday, as regularly as the.   THE DALTS OP DALYSTOWN.     169 doctor himself. They sat on the porch, outside of the kitch- en, where a servant brought to them their dinners; but when the weather was cold, they were allowed into the house. Nor was this levee of the poor confined to estab- lished pensioners; any of the numerous poor who traveled about the country, attending fairs, markets, races, &c., &c., that chanced to be in the, neighborhood of the Grove on Sunday, attended, " and had their claims allowed." "I am credibly informed, sir," said the rector, addressing Doctor Kelly, who made one of a group of gentlemen just then discussing the increase of pauperism in the parish," I am credibly informed, sir, that it frequently happens, a nUmm- ber of strolling beggars will come into the parish, on Fri- day, and stay over Saturday, for tie'purpose of going to your house on Sunday." "What of that, my dear sir " replied the doctor. "Do you give them their dinners on Saturday, let them come to me on Sunday, and the matter will be arranged." And away went the old man, chuckling to himself. Was there ever such an obstinate, wrong-headed old fellow as this Doctor Kelly? Go thy ways, old man, thou wilt yet be sitting down with some of these outcasts at the heavenly banquet, prepared for such as you, when Lord John Russell and political econ- omy, (Victoria, chapter 105,) and poor law commissioners are  "God knows where." When Rose and Emily arrived at the Grove, Doctor Kel- ly was from home, but they found Mrs. Kelly in her draw- ing room. As I have before mentioned, she was some years younger than her husband; yet her face had more of the marks of age about it. It was thin and pale, with deep lines under the eyes; yet the eyes themselves were soft and gentle,- the very opposite to that hard, twinkling expression that we sometimes see with the old. Her nose was straight and high; her mouth well formed, with teeth as white and per- fect as in youth. She wore her own grey hair, rolled back from her forehead and confined by a neat cap. Her gown was rich and well fitting, but every portion of her dress was free from those gaudy colors which would but have mocked   170      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. her pale cheek, and slightly bent form. Altogether, her appearance was pleasing and dignified, her manners gentle and ladylike. She kissed the two young ladies with great affection. "I had a scolding prepared for both of you," she said, "you, especially, Rose, but I am so glad to see you that I believe I must pardon you. Why Rose, were you waiting for me to call, in all form, on Miss O'Donnell?. "Oh, Mrs. Kelly," replied Rose, " do not hint at such a thing or I will say you are about to commence the scold- ing." "Well, I will not, as the doctor tells me, that, like a good girl, you have promised to spend a few days with us." "And do you not think it very unkind of the doctor, Mrs. Kelly," said Emily, "to have left me out in his in- vitation?"  "I fear, Emily," replied the old lady, " you will not be able to make out a case of quarrel with him for that, for he is not in the habit of paying French compliments, and we know it would be one, to ask you to stay away from papa; but why did not Henry accompany you?" "He had to go from home on some business," replied Emily. "Yes, the doctor tells me that he has become a great man for business ; thank God he was spared to you all?" For a second, a shadow passed over the old lady's face, in the next, little feet were heard hurrying to the door, and a cluster of bright curls popped in, but as quickly jerked back again. Then there was a slight scuffle out- side the door, between Lady Betty's late maid, and little Fanny, the former wishing to bring her young charge to the nursery, "just to make her tidy," before she went into the drawing room. Mrs. Kelly smiled; "let her come in Jane," she said, and in bounded triumphant Fanny, to the great horror of Jane, ruffled and tossed as she was, having been for the half hour previous rolling down hill with her brother, Fred. Of course she was taken up, kissed and petted, and anxious inquiries made as to the health of her doll. Fanny said "she was quite well." Oh, Fanny, how can you say so?   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      171 Is she not at this moment standing on her head, in a corner of the room, minus a leg, and one arm in a very shattered condition? Presently the boys came in; fine, manly little fellows they were; Charles, the eldest, was, as I have mentioned, about ten, James eight and Frederick six. There was no awkward bashfulness about the young group; no dragging them forward, thumb in mouth, to speak to the visitors. The manners of the two eldest, though boyish enough, were gentlemanly and easy, and with Fanny on one side and Fred on the other, the young ladies received several invitations to go see wonderful baby houses, interesting puppies, the new bonnet Fanny had given to her maid, and Fred's kitten. "Children," said the old lady, " you must not tease the girls, Rose intends remaining with us some days, but if you tease her, she will run back with Emily. Come, girls, after your drive, you must take some luncheon." "Well, after luncheon, Emily and Rose, will come out to the stable to see James's new pony," said Fred. His brothers laughed. "Young ladies never go to the stables," said grandmam- ma. "But I am sure, grandmamma," said James, "Emily woul d like to see him. Let Charley get the saddle on him, and ride him round." "Oh, by all means," said Emily. "Grandpapa," said James, in a confidential whisper to Emily, -' thinks him a little too wild, yet, for me; but Char- ley rides him beautifully." James looked upon his brother Charles as a second Nim- rod. Not a little proud of having an opportunity to show off his horsemanship, Charles, after luncheon, left the room, and in a few minutes afterwards, James, who had been watching at one of the windows, for his brother to make his appearance,-called out, "Here he is. Come here Emily, come here Rose." The ladies went over to the window. "What a beautiful pony," exclaimed Emily;   172      THE DALYS Of DALYSTOWN. And a very beautiful animal he was, indeed. None of your shaggy Newfoundland ponies, but a diminutive Bu. cephalus in strength and beauty, with broad chest, high shoulders, short back, well set limbs, small head and ears, large firey eyes, and wide nostrils. His color was dark bay, with black legs, and. as Charles made him pace back. wards, and forwards before the window, he stepped with a bounding motion, as if the ground beneath him was elastic. "Well, sure enough, Master Charles," said the servant who had driven the Dalystown car; " he's a beauty. It's a thousand pities that there's not more of him in it; if he was two hands, or a hand and a half higher, he'd be worth every penny of three hundred pounds." "Yes, John," replied the boy; grandpapa says, that if he was as tall as my filly, he would not take two hundred for him. So ho, Gamecock; be quiet, sir." But Gamecock would not be quiet. He did not under. stand why he should be kept wheeling up and down. So now and then he gave a little poke with his head, and a plunge of impatience. "See, John," said Charles Kelly, " how fine his mouth is, you can turn him with a silk thread." "By dad, then, Master Charles," replied the servant, "you needn't be sorry for that, for if he had a hard mouth, it would be no easy job to hold him, small as he is." Just then a dog, running out of the yard, frightened the little horse. He made two or three bounds sideways, until he got himself on the grass. Then, finding himself still checked, he plunged and reared violently. The boy sat him admirably; Mrs. Kelly shaded her eyes with her hand, but Emily and Rose were Galway girls, and looked on, more in admiration than fear. "Let your hands down, Master Charles, and give him his head," said the servant, " you have plenty of room to take the devil out of him." Thus advised, the boy threw himself forward in the sad- dle, and the pony, with a wild leap, set off at full speed. Round and round the lawn they sped, Charles, each time he passed the window, turning his glowing face to where the ladies stood, while Emily waved her handkerchief, and the servant called out,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      173 "Well done, Master Charles. That s the way to take the pride out of the little beauty."? At length the boy reined in his steed, now thoroughly subdued, and James hurried forward to meet his brother, "Oh, Charley," he said, " you did that well, but it will be a long time, before I can ride him." "Well, you know you can ride my filly, James," replied Charles, in rather a condescending tone, as he vaulted off the pony, which was led round to the yard by a servant, the brothers returning to the house, Charles, to be gently chided by his grandmamma for being so foolhardy, and ,ex- tolled by the young ladies for the same. "If you do not think I will be too old, Charley," said Emily, "I will certainly wait for you. And now go, like a good boy, and tell the servant to bring the car, for it is get- ting late." "I will not ask you to remain for dinner, Emily," said Mrs. Kelly, " as I know your father would be uneasy. But I can- not forgive you for not arranging, so that Henry should have accompanied you; you could then have remained, and the doctor would have been so glad to have found you here before him." "Not at all, I assure you, Mrs. Kelly," replied Miss Daly. 'He told me he did not want such a madcap in his house." "Do you know, Rose," said the old lady, laughing, 'I half suspect those quarrels are got up to deceive me." "Not a doubt of it, my dear Mrs Kelly," replied Rose. When Miss Daly took her departure, the children scamp- ered off to play, and Mrs. Kelly and Rose sat down, very quietly, to work and chat. Towards evening, the doctor' arrived home, and mighty was the uproar among the young people at the event. Charles and James unseated the ser- vant, and took possession of the gig, which they drove round to the yard, while Fred and Fanny (seemingly bent on self-destruction,) came tumbling down stairs to meet grandpapa in the hall. And now Fanny makes infantile efforts to strangle the old gentleman, as she endeavors to unti" a large muffle from around his neck, the doctor squatting down to allow her to reach to it, whilst Fred, toils, like a galley slave, at ,        ,       * *    174      THE DALYS 'bF DALYSTOWN, the sleeve of his coat. Suddenly, the excitement becomes intense, for the doctor has lost his balance, and fallen right upon his back, while the children, with shouts of laughter, mount upon his chest. Grandpapa makes an attempt to rise, but the children, and his top coat, hold him down, whereupon he shouts: "Help, murder, thieves, Ribbon. men," which puts Fanny into such kinks of laughter, that she rolls helplessly on to the floor. '"And Rose is here, grandpapa," says Fred. "Well, you young brigand, let me up to see her; oh here she is. Rose, give me your hand to help me up, if you would not see murder done before your eyes." But Rose was laughing so much she could not help him. "You are as bad as the rest, Rose," he said. "Out of my way, Fanny. Now then, here we go," and the doctor stood once more upon his legs. "You are a good girl, Rose, to have kept your promise," he said, shaking hands with her. "When did you arrive '" "About three hours ago," she answered. "'And Emily, is she here?" he asked. "No, she has returned. She knew Mr. Daly would be un- easy if she had to travel after nightfall; and you know to get her to remain away, even for one night, is impossible." "Oh, the baggage," said the doctor, '" she has always some excuse." He and Rose then entered the room where Mrs. Kelly was. "Well, Mrs. Kelly," said the doctor, "here I am, as hungry as an office seeker." '"And here is the servant)" replied Mrs. Kelly, " to tell us that dinner is served. So it you will give Rose your arm, we will go down to it." During dinner, the doctor told all the light news of the country round, and it was surprising how interesting he made it, divested as it was of scandal and ill-nature. The ladies did not retire after dinner, but as the evening advanced, they got their work baskets over to the table, and the doctor wheeled his chair nearer to the fire. This movement had been anxiously watched for by the children. Charley and James got chairs next to their grandfather;   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      175 Fred brought forward a stool, and Fanny, notwithstanding her late attempt at garroting, perched herself on grand. papa's knee. The boys looked at Fanny, and she looked at the old man. 'u What's in the wind now ." said he. "Grandpapa," replied Fanny, stroking the old man's hair, "is going to tell a little,--little story." "Hum," said the doctor, "I suspected as much. Why do you not get grandmamma to tell a story?" "Oh, grandmalnma has no good story,"; replied Fred. Yes, she has," said Fanny, ' she told me all about little Red Riding Hood." "Fred was staggered, though not convinced, by this proof of grandmamma's powers of composition, but James came to the rescue. "Little Red Riding Hood is in books," he said, " but grandpapa's stories never were nor never will be in a book." "Rather a doubtful compliment, James," said the old gen- tleman, laughing. "Well, what shall it be about ' "One we never heard, grandpapa," said James. "Let there be lots of dogs and horses in it," said Fred. 'And dolls and rabbits," said Fanny. "Tell one that Rose will like to listen to, sir," said Charles. You see, Rose," remarked the doctor, " how difficult we authors find it to please everybody." "Oh commence, doctor," replied Rose, " and I am sure you will please." "You mean, Rose, that it is easy to please those who have a will to be pleased. Ahem.--Nowyou must all shut your eyes until I am fairly started, for I want you to sup- pose that I am reading my story out of a book." This was a famous coup2:etat of the doctor's, and a much more innocent one than Louis Napoleon's; for, sometimes it happened, that when little eyes closed, they did not open again until the following morning. "Stay, James," said Mrs. Kelly, " do you not remember Ilen you returned home, some years ago, from London, of telling me that a friend, whom you met there, related to you avery remarkable story with which he himself was con- nected."   176       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN6 "I remember all about it, Mary," replied the doctor, "but God bless my soul, did I never tell you the story itself?" "Never," she replied. "And you never asked me, from that day to this," said the doctor, putting on a very surprised look. "Now, Rose, who dares to say that a woman is curious? To him who says so, I throw down my glove, and a pair of the worsted stockings my wife knitted for me." "Well, James," said Mrs. Kelly, reward my patience by telling it now. It may amuse Rose." I intended," said the doctor, " to have ridden off to-night, on Jack and the beanstalk, until Charley suggested my tell. ing something that might interest Rose, and I was just puzzling my old head what it should be; so, Mary, your re. quest comes quite opportune." I was well acquainted, in early life, with the gentleman who related to me the incidents which I am now about to tell you; some of them I knew before. Though many years my junior, we were intimate friends at one time, and when chance brought us again together, we were glad to renew our old friendship. During my stay in London, I dined frequently at his house, and it was on one of those occasions, finding ourselves all alone, he related to me that which you shall now hear." "Oh! a true story!" said Charley, rubbing his hands, in great glee. "-Well, my boy," said the doctor, ,  stir up the fire. A sto. ry is nothing without a good fire to tell'it by. It is as scenery Mrs. Kelly and Rose here laid aside their work, and joined the circle at the fire. "That is right, Rose," said the doctor. "Just sit there. What a pretty side scene you make, to be sAre. So ring the bell, Charley, and up with the curtain. Hillo! whatis this?" This exclamation was caused by Fred's falling off the stool, while asleep, and continuing his nap on the hearth-rug. On examination, it was discovered that Henry was in a like helpless state. So the bell was rung, and Lady Betty s ex-maid and another servant carried off the young crimli nals, asleep and "incapable, your worship."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN-      1" The doctor then commenced his story. But I will give it a chapter for itself. CHAPTER XVII. THE DOCTOR'S STORY. ln the forenoon of a winter's day, Mr. John Fieldfare sat in the private office of his countinghouse, in the city of "ondon. The outer -office was usually occupied by two clerks, this day there was but one there. Though so early in the dav, the gas was lighted in both offices, for Londcn  lhad fallen into one of its chronic fogs, or rather, the fog had fallen into London. The morning papers stated that the sun had been struggling for the last two days to shine through it; but this was a newspaper lie. A few miles out- side of London, the sun was looking down upon well glean- ed fields, happy homesteads, sparkling rivers, green lands, and laughing children. Now having such pleasant things to look at, to say that it would put itself into an extra heat, and it is so hot already, by struggling to look into London, was an absurdity originating in Cockney vanity. M lr. Fieldfare, at times, raised his eyes from the ledger he was poring over, to look at the window,- to look out of it, at present, was impossible. Indeed, in the best weather, a lover of nature would have deemed the view somewhat limited, as a tall chimney stood opposite the window, at a few yards distance from it, and the wind frequently drove ihe heavy smoke into the little court yard below, from 12   178 .     THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWNN. whence, as it ascended, it effectually shut out the short view that the tall chimney bounded. ' Mr. Fieldfare was a tall, strong man, of about fifty years of age. We all have read of people described as having determined looking features. Now, Mr. Fieldfare's features belon:gedl to this order. His nose was a determined looking nose, and all through life, he had followed his nose with a very determined will. Whether it was his nose that had governed his' will, or his will that had given character to his nose, I leave metaphysicians to decide. Although not exactly one of the prince merchants of London, he was, nevertheless, a rich man. His name ranked high on 'change and figured on the right side of the bal- ance sheet of the Bank of England. What more could aniy man desire? If any one had put this question to Mr. Field- fare, years ago, when a young lad he came up to London, with a fixed resolve to battle for a portion of its fabulous wealth, he would have answered: " nothing more." If at any time afterwards, during those years that he toiled upward, with every nerve of mind and body strained, to the goal of his ambition, the same question was put, he would still have answered: " nothing more.". But now, when that goal was reached; when he lknew how high his character stood, among those whose good opinion he valued; when his ledger told him that the wealth he had toiled for, was safely lodged to his credit in the Bank of Engl]and, now, as reclining baclk in his easy cllair, he put to himself this very same question, there came to him, through the fog and smoke of London, voices from the abiding places of truth, whispering: 1' more, more, much more." But Mr. Fieldfare was not going to al- low himnself to be fooled by any such thoughts. '"Nonscnse," he soliloquized, " if I am not happy, it is not that I have mistaken the road that leads to being so. All that is worth having in this world, wealth can buy,-- power, position, pleasures, the respect of man, the love of woman.' As Mr Fieldfare thus mused, the door opened and his clerk looked in. "There's a lady here, sir," said the latter, "wishes to speak with you." "A lady,- who is she?"   T-IE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     179 "' I think sir, she is Mr. Russell's wife," "And where is Mr. Russell himself?" asked Mr. Field- fare. "He has not come, sir, this morning," replied the clerk. "Hum, what can the woman want with me? Show her n; I did not even know that Rutssell was married." This was true enough, Mr. Fieldfare did not care to know ianything of the private lives of those in his employment; it was sufficient for him that they performed well the duties for which he paid them. The clerk retired, and in a few moments afterwards, Mrs. Russell entered the office. "Mr. Fieldfare, I presume P" she said. "That is my name, ma'am."  The harsh voice those words were spoken in, made the lady glance at the stern face before her. "Alas!" she thought, "what weary hours poor Henry must pass here M!' Mr. Fieldfare gave an impatient " alhem.  "My husband, Mr. Henry Russell, sir,'" said the lady, "has met with a very severe accident. Returning home last eve- ning, his foot slipped and he sprained his ankle very badly. The doctor fears he will not be able to leave the house for a week or so, and I have called to let you know why it is that he cannot attend the office. It is very distressing, but my husband bid me say that he hopes to make up for any inconvenience this may cause you, by staying after office hours, when able to attend." "It will cause me no inconvenience whatever, madam,' replied Mr. Fieldfare, " clerks are plenty enough, and my business is not to be delayed, because your husband chose to sprain his foot." Mrs. Russell was a  very gentle lady. When a girl, she had seen little of the world, outside her own family circle; and since her marriage, her husband and child formed her entire society. All her life, she had been listening to gen- tle words fromn loving lips. So, like a raw recruit, when he first hears the bullets whizzing around him, she had a strong  notion to tur'n and fly from those bullet words and thatpiti- less voice, but as pride sustains the recruit, indignation gave   180      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. strength to the young wife. To hear Henry spoken of, in such a contemptuous manner--Henry, her ideal of all that was good and noble, put on a level with every common clerk in the city. "Plenty of clerks;" she knew that, but were there plenty such as Henry? How she would con. found the man, had she courage to ask him this. But she felt much more inclined to cry; she wanted air, so she threw back her veil, and there was a bright blush on her face, as she looked at Mr. Fieldfare. The latter was surprsed at the classic beauty of her face. He stammered out some apology for his rude speech, " men of business were apt to be put out, at hearing of anything that would disarrange its routine. He trusted she would excuse him." And she did. She thought to herself it was b)ut his manner, and she had hleard Henry say that rough- mannered people Awere often very good. Whilst Mrs. Russell was thus thinking, an unholy passion which he thought was love, took possession of Mr. Field- fare, but which resembled love about as much as the paint lipon the poor wretch's cheek resembles the glow of health. Just before this lady had entered his office, he had been endeavoring to prove to himself that money could procure all things worth having. Well, here was a love worth a fortune. So he resolved to test the power of that divinity before which he bowed down and worshipped. Now, to carry out this resolve, Fieldfare should, accord- ing, to the rules laid down in such cases, by some romantic writers, have at once appeared in the light of a raw-head- Cland-bloody-bones; and, dismissing Henry Russell on the spot, hunt him afterwards through every shade of poverty, to the grave; after which he, Fieldfare, should come forward and offer to Mrs Russell-by that time a very frightful skel- cton-his love and a splendid establishment. But Mr. Fieldfare never read novels. He had seen the play of "Richard the Third" performed, and considered the scotne between Richard and Anna highly unnatural. Nor, indeed, was Mr. Fieldfare wicked enough to adopt such a "ourse, even if he had been fool enough to suppose it prac- ticable. And, to give John Bull but his due, it would be no easy matter to hunt a manr to death in Old England,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     181 John, in the body politic, is not as good as he might be, but individually, he is the greatest lover of justice, liberty and fair play that the world has ever seen. A young man like Henry Russell, of unblemished char- acter, might snap his fingers in the faces of all the Prince Merchants of England, the Court of Aldermen. Windsor Castle, and Gog and Magog to boot. "What- answer, sir, shall I bring back to my husband?" said Mrs. Russell. "Excuse me, but he will be uneasy until my return." "This little accident is rather unfortunate, just now," re- plied Mr. Fieldfare, " for there was a matter I am particular about, which I wished Mr. Russell to attend to for me." He paused for a moment as if thinking, and then added: "Do you think your husband could do a little writing at home?" "Oh yes," replied the lady, " the doctor says all that is necessary is for him to keep quiet on the sofa; if a table was wheeled over to it, I am sure he could write and would be glad to do so." '"I do not exactly know where you reside, Mrs. Russell?" said Mr. Fieldfare. "We lodge in Shaftsbury street, Islington," replied the lady. "Islington, that is some distance from this. However, if possible, I will call upon Mr. Russell after bankhours and bring with me the papers I want him to copy. Pray, what is your number?" "Fifty-five," she replied. "Fifty-five Shaftsbury street, Islington," said Mr. Field- fare, making a note in his memorandum book. The lady rose to take her departure, Mr. Fieldfare rose also. "Would she not allow him to send for a cab?." She thanked him, "but the Islington omnibusses passed- the door, and slfb would return by one of them." Mr. Fieldfare opened the office door, bowed politely, and Mrs. Russell hurried home to acquaint her husband with the intended visit, which surprised him not a little. Mr. Fieldfare was not a depraved man, neither was he what is termed a bad man; his character is better ex-   II OfT       .JL IJ b uA I U' UI UAL Y I1U W t pressed by saying, he was a hard man. From his youth upward, he had walked through life, looking neither to the left nor right, with but one object, wealth; but he took no -crooked paths to reach it. He deprived no poor man of his wages, nor did the curse of widow or orphan rest upon him. His dealings were with men, keen and strong as himself. He met them openly, grappled with them man. fully, wrestled with them fairly, without stooping to the religious dodge or the hypocritical trip. But, if he wronged no man, neither did he ever serve one. If he caused not the tears of the orphan to flow, never had he stopped in his path and stretched forth his hand to dry them up. He ar- gued that a man could do what, he liked with his own. In- disputable premises, self-evident truth! But before we act upon it, it would be well to ascertain, as nearly as pos- sible, what is really -oir own. After Mrs. Russell had taken her departure, Mr. Fieldfare went into the city to transact business. About three o'clock in the afternoon, he hurried back to his office, and selecting some papers, put them in his pocket and set out for Islington. What his intentions were, he did not very well know, nor did he give himself time to consider them. When he knocked at the door of the house, where his clerk lodged, it was opened by the landlady, Mrs. Frumble. This good lady was the widow of a defunct tax collector, and was in the habit of appearing in two very different characters. With the butcher, baker, and other small traders, blessed with her custom, she was a " poor, lone wo- man, that ought to get things cheaper than any one else." She cringed and higgled, until, to get rid of her, people often gave things at her own price; but with her lodgers, and their visitors, she was a very different person,--" the widow of a government officer," and though she had been hurled from her high estate by the death of "lher dear Frumble,--his likeness,--his full length likeness,--with his books under his arm, hung in the front parlor." She had to demean herself by letting lodgings, and did not choose to keep a servant; she was not going to lower herself alto- gether,- not she,-in waiting on people who harrowed her   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      183 feelings, by locking up their cold meat. "They were poor and busy enough to attend themselves."' So, on Mr. Fieldfare's inquiring for Mr. Rnssell, he was anwered in a sharp voice, "first landing, door, right hand," after popping out which, Mrs. Frumble banged the door to, and whisked into the front parlor to gaze upon the likeness of the defunct tax collector, which looked down upon her with a stern, governmental frown, a thing the original never presumed to do while in the flesh. To be sure the likeness had the advantage of position, inasmuch as it hung beyond the convenient reach of Mrs. Frumble's fingers; and this leads me to suppose that Frumble may have departed this life with a very false impression on his mind as to the real nature of the feelings of a numerous class of persons towards him--I allude to those to whom he was in the habit of paying professional visits-and that they may have been actuated by the most lively interest in his domestic happiness, when they advised him, which they frequently did, "to go hang himself.'" When Mr. Fieldfare screwed himself up the narrow stairs, he found the door, to which he had been directed, partially opened, revealing the little group the room con- tained. Henry Russell lay on a sofa, at the foot of which knelt his young wife; she had -been applying a cooling lotion to his swollen ancle, and was now in the act of replacing the bandages, whilst, near the top of the sofa, was a little girl not more than three years of age, glowing and panting with exertion, as in imitation of her mother, she rolled a bandage roulnd a sound and well shaped arm, held out to her very patiently. As Mr. Fieldfare looked, the eyes of the parents rested on their beautiful clhild, and then were raised to each' other's faces. So full of holy, confiding love and thankful happiness were those glances, that the visitor drew back. He durst not enter that humble room, perfumed by love, to pollute it with the presence of his bad thoughts. Like a thief, he hurried down stairs, and out into the street. "I dare not," he said, "I dare not, for my soul sake, enter that room just now."   184      TIIE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. For his soul sake! How many years had come and gone since such a thought had entered the mind of that worldly man. Not since his youth; and with it, now came thoughlts of his youngr days, of the humble home, far down in the country, of the mother who had hung weeping on his neck, ere he left; nor did those thoughts leave him until he retir- ed to rest. Then he had a strange dream, he dreamt an angel stood by his bedside, and said. ' Arise and colne with me; for your soul sake, collie." He arose. All was vague then until he found himself, with his guide, in a vast hall, so vast that he could form no idea of its extent. It had no roof, and the stars looked down into it. In it, there were innumerable poles or shafts, rising so high that the eye lost them in space. These stood in pairs, like the sides of a ladder, each pair standing dis- tinct from the others. Myriads and myriads of rungs were continually flying into, and joining together, these lofty poles. Some of these rungs, or steps, were of purest gold, others of silver, others of diamonds; others, again, were formed of loathsome reptiles. Hideous, slimy snakes, coil- ed their bodies into rungs, their heads hanging down, their forked tongues darting in and out, and their bright eyes glistening. Sometimes, rungs, formed of bright, globular drops of water, entered above these serpent rungs, and a few detached drops, falling upon the latter, they instantly disappeared, their places becoming occupied by clear, trans- parant rungs. Crowds of phantoms were continually en- tering, and gliding to these ladders. Some ascended and were quickly lost to sight, others ascended to great heights but were met by serpent rungs, when, uttering piercing shrieks, they fell back into yawning chasms, which opened to receive them; others, again, on approaching certain lad- ders, found them altogether occupied by loathsome crea- tures. There were ladders there with rungs, which broke as the phantoms stepped upon them, and they, likewise, were hurled into those dismal pits, which were continually -opening around. "Thou would'st know," said the spirit, "the meaning of what thou see'st, listen. Those high poles are reason and- ,free-will. They reach to heaven, and one of eachis given   ,   T THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     185 to every mortal. Tile rungs Which join them, and by which man must ascend, are his deeds whilst on earth; those of silver are his fair dealings with his brother,- Do ul to others, as you would that others should do unto you.' Those of gold, and of such variety of shape and color, are noble deeds performed, the weak protected, the oppressor defied; temptations resisted, iljuries forgiven; faitl, and otlher vir- tues, which. tested in the furnace of truth, come forth pure goldl. l'hllose dianmond rungs, so superior to all the rest, 'or they never fail to bring a host of the others in their train, ----behold their name." The diamond rungs sparkled, and by their own light, Fieldfare read "Charity," "Mortal," said the spirit, the angels have nought more precious than those, to rest upon, as they stand minister lng before the throne of God. Those clear drops, forming into rungs, are the tears of penitents. Thou see'st how the loathsome  rungs disappear at their touch. Those that break are the acts of hypocrites; with them, they deceived others while on earth; by them, they themselves are now deceived. Mortal! Thy own soul tells thee what those serpent rungs are,-Alan's evil passions. A  little while ago thou had'st all but coiled one; you were saved for the time. But see:" Fieldfare turned. Before himn were many pairs of poles, Without rungs. "'l'ose," said the spirit, belong to them who hlave co1m- mitted no criimes, and yet, have wrought no good deeds." As he  spoke, a number of phantoms approached the poles, and looked up their smooth sides. Alas, there were no rungrs by which they could ascend, and, weeping they turn- ed away. Fieldfare shuddered. He had recognized,  l;e knew not how, his own  pair. "Oh God "  he cried, clasping his hands before his eyes, "not one rung; too late too late" "It is never too late, while on earthll," replied the spirit. Fieldfare removed his hands; the whole space before him was now filled wiLh a glowing, living painting, representing three figures. That on the left was in deep shade, butfrom   1 S6      THE DALYS OF DALYSTO W N. the. center one there issued a stream of light, encircling the head of the third figure with a halo of glory. It was the smile of the Savior, beaming on the penitent thief. "It was not too late for him,7' said the angel. Then, with a cry of joy, Fieldfare awoke. It was clear day, the fog had passed off, and the sun was shining bright- ly; for, notwithstanding all that has been said to the con- trary, London often enjoys a very respectable winter's sun. But a darker fog than any that ever rested over London, had risen from Mr Fieldfare's mind. True, it was but au dream, and had passed away, but not before its mission of mercy had been fulfilled; and happy is it for him who re- jects not such warnings, in whatever shape or form they come. "My God! I thank thee," exclaimed Mr. Fieldfare, spring- ing from his bed, and falling upon his knees, ' merciful God, I thank thee, that it is not too late." That same day, he called upon his clerk, Henry Russell. He was not afraid now, to enter the little room. Russell had made up his mind that he should look out for another situation, thinking it very probable that Mr. Fieldfare had alrelady filled up his place. He was then by no means pre- pared for the kind tones in which the latter addressed him. Mr. Fieldfare remarked his surprised look, and was at no loss to account for it. "I astonish you, Russell," he said, " because I speak lind- ly to you. It is a good reproof to me, Henry, and one that I well deserve. But I hope I am a changed man; all my life I have been looking through the wrong end of life's tel- escope. How I found this out, you perhaps shall one day learn, and how you and your wife, and this innocent child helped to turn the right end of the glass to my eye. All this, I say, you mav, perhaps, one day learn; but to-day, I have come to speak to you of yourself. I want you to allow me to be your friend, and to be so effectually, I must know something of your past history. You have been now in my employment over two years, and I know no more of your private life, than if I had never seen you, nor of the lives and circumstances of any of those who have been in my employment from time to time. It was sufficient for me   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     187 that they came well recommended, and performed their duties to my satisfaction. I never cared to inquire what liind of homes they turned their weary footsteps to, after they toiled and labored for me during the day. If I had done so, how many faces I might have brigiltened, how man y wounds I might have healed how many hearts I might have lightened, how many blessings I might have gathered around me! And I could have done all this with- out feeling, in a worldly sense, any loss. But it is not too late, Russell; it is not too late. Come now, tell me all about yourself. Upon my word, I think tlat but for your sprain- ed ancle, you would long since have made a fair start of it for I see by your looks, that you have a great Ylisgiving as to my sanity. Quite right, and quite natural, Henry. But I am not mad; I have been so for years past, and am now restored to my senses, I thank my God. And let me tell you, Russell, that if all the respectable, elderly lunatics, similarly affected, and now at large in this city, were taken up, the asylums of England, would scarcely hold them. Now tell me your history. Every man has a little history." Henry Russell's little history was soon told. He was by birth and education, a gentleman. Six months after he had  entered his name on the books of the Temple, and com- menced eating his way to the bar, as it is termed, his father died, leaving his son about as mich as would enable him with strict economy, to support himself while a law stu- dent, and buy his wig and gowln rhen lhe got called. Now it so happened that Henry had a very sincere affection for a cousin of his and she for him; but, under such circum- stances, of course they could not think of ge'tting married, of course not! Yet there was no reason why he should not go see his pretty cousin, of course not! So during va- cation, in the pleasant months okf summer, lie went down into the country where she resided. How glad she was to see him! , Very sensibly indeed, for two so young, they planned that Henry was to work for years and years, until he had obtained a position in his profession his pretty cousin waiting faithfully, during those weary vears, for the time when lie could claim her as his own. Having plan- ned this as I have mentioned, in the most sensible manner,   188      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. and it being absolutely and finally settled upon, Henry be- gan to chafe a good deal at his evil fortune, and his pretty cousin to cry a good deal, until at length they formed anoth. er plan. Now, fearing that if this changing of plans continued, they might confuse themselves, they wisely resolved to act upon this one; so they went at once and got married. Henry had now arrived at a very delicate part of his his, tory. He could not tell, with that sweet face before him, that the additional expense of a wife had compelled him to relinquish all idea of the bar, in order to procure immedi. ate employment. He was not a fellow to whine and vow and sigh, until he got a woman to have him, and then to turn upon her and say: " see what I have lost by marrying you!" "After a little time," said Henry, "I got tired of ' eating mv wav to the bar,' with but little prospect of succeeding wihen I got there, so I changed my mind and looked out for a situation in the city. I wrote a good hand, was a fair ac- countant, and got employment easily enough; I spent one year with Mr. Silversmith and then, sir, came to you." Mr. Fieldfiare was. at no loss to guess why it was that Rus. sell had got tired of his law studies, and he admired him the more for the delicacy with which he concealed the real reason. "Well, Henry," he said, when the former had concluded, and they had been for some time afterwards conversing to. gether," "We may find some way to win you back to your old love, unless you prefer some other profession. One thing I now promise you and your wife, thlt you shall not spend your life as a city clerk. Why, what is the matter with the man?"Henry had laid his head down upon the sofa, and was soblingl like a child. Mrs. Russell, will you- hillo! I declare, site is as bad as he is." 'Oh,' sobbed the poor young wife, "you are so kind, you have made us so happy and taken such a load off my heart, for, let Henry conceal it as he will, I know it was baby and myself that )prevented him from going to the bar." "Well, suppose it was, ma'am', replied Mr. Fieldfare, I would like to know now, how many respectable wigs he would take in exchange for both of you."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      189 "Not to be made Chancellor of England," said Henry. "There," said Mr. Fieldfare, " you see he would not give you for the Chancellor's wig. No great compliment after all, for no Chancellor's wig ever had such curls as these," and he stirred up the child's bright curls with his hand. "Here, Henry," he continued, take this little one and lnurse her, it is all you are fit to do for a few days, but get well soon, I will want you to assist me in doing that which I should have done those many years past. But it is not too late, Henry, not too late. Not a word now, none of us are fit to speak just now. Egad, I am half inclined to cry nyself, I hope I will get a lookl at your landlady, as I pass down, it will fieeze me up effectually. I am  coming here to-morrow. Don't stir, good bye," and their visitor was gone, leaving two happy hearts behind him. Quite a simple thing, good neighbors, and easy of accom- plishment, and yet, had he spent his mornirg on 'change, and realized, as clear profit, the entire amount of the na- tional debt of England. hle would not have performed an action half so profitable to himself. Although Mr. Fieldfare commenced, from this time out, to do good with the same energy that characterized him fs a man of business, the change was unnoticed by the world in general. In all outward appearances he was Uhe same, save that his laugh was heartier and his look more open. For, be it known to you, he did not become a saint,-that is, he did not wear a white choker and vinegar face, nor did he turn up his nose as he walked the streets, as if its orthodox sense of smell detected the sinner as he passed. He did not become a leadingl member of any foreign mission; he had no sympathy for foreign savages while there were so many naked little savages running about the streets of Lon- don. He did not attend meetings at Exeter Hall, to de- nounce Popery and to hear himself called " a godly man " by old ladies, who subscribed to foreign missions the money they had gained by cheating at whist. In short, he did not countenance any of the thousand-and-one humbugs got up smooth-faced, oily-chopped hypocrites, who pick the pockets of their dupes, bypandering to their vanity, igno- rance, pride, and even to their uncharitableness. For ha-   190      THE DALYS 0P DALYSTOWN. tred of all who differ from them, is the most profable feel. ing that the roving apostolic missionary can invoke. "Only think," said the doctor, breaking off for a moment in his story," only think of an ignorant, white-faced, gander. necked Scroggins, whose whole sanctity and call consists in a verv disagreeable and acquired nasal twang, coming to Ireland to uproot the religion founded by the apostles, and preached here by a Patrick.7" No, Mr. Fieldfare avoided the Pharisees, for he had the rotten rungs fresh in his memory. His first care was to make himself acquainted with the private character and circumstances of those in his employment. By assisting then lie received present reward, that of seeing himself surrounded by happy faces, and he soon discovered how very little it really takes to raise an industrious poor man from pinching poverty to comparative independence. But he did not confine himiself to what might be termed his own circle. Whenever he had an opportunity to serve his fel- low-man, he did so, and did it effectually ; for when once he took a man by the hand, he did not let go his hold until he had placled him on his legs. In casual charities he never adopted any fixed rule. He would feed a hungry man, did he know him to be fresh friom a felon's cell, not deeming it would imnprove him much to leave him hungry. In all his acts of benevolence, Russell was his active agent. As they became intimate, Mr. Fieldfare quickly recognized his yolung friend's talents and acquirements, and he insisted on the latter resumingi his studies for the bar. "I am alone in the world, Henry,' he said, ' I am rich, and were I to die to-morrow, you should have a portion of my money,--not as much though as would allow you to be idle. This being the case, you lmust not allow a mistaken pride to debar me from the pleasure of seeing it of service to you now.' So to the bar Henry Russell went, and Mr. Fieldfare had the happiness, for years before his death, of witnessing the growing success of his friend, and finally his distinguished position. Some few years after Russell had co:mmenced practicing as a barrister, Mr. Fieldfare retired fronm business. He purchased a handsome place, down at Richmond, where he usually spent his summers, and where   THE. DALYS OF DALYSTOWN      191 Russell and his family were sure to join him, at the com. mencement of, the long vacation. "Years thus glided by, when Mr. Fieldfare, then a very old man, was seized wlth his last illness. Russell and his wife were in London at the time, but both hastened down to Richmond. Never did a daughter attend the sick bed of a parent with more untiring love than Mrs. Russell that of her benefactor's. "Two days before his death,' said Henry Russell to me (for the friend with wh orn I dined, and wrho told me the story I have now told to you, was no other) 'he called me to his bedside, and related to ilne the dream he had had years before. It was strange, how clear and distinct it had remained in the old man's memory.' "Do you rcnmember, Henry,' he said, (I told you at the time, that you might one day learn thie cause of the sudden change you saw in me then ; and yet, he added, I do not believe that I was naturally bad, or the performance of my duty could not have become, as it did, so quickly,-a la- bor of love, but that the greed for weal'th had for a time choked up all my better feelings, as weeds do a well. The little domestic scene of happiness I witnessed, unobserved by you, plucked up the weeds, and the spring'burst iforth.' "His, indeed,' concluded my friend, ' was a happy deal ltl and at a distance I endeavor to follow in his footsteps." And so Henry Russell was the friend you dined with grandpapa," said Charley, drawing a great sigh, when the doctor's Story was concluded. "Yes, my boy." "And his pretty wife, grandpapa?" "Oh, she gave us an excellent cup of tea when we join- ed her in the drawing room; much better then the one grandmama has treated herself to, or she would not be nodding asleep. Come, boys, scamper off to bed.'" Grandpapa," said James, "now that I have a pony, I think I will give my donkey to widow Casey." "Right, mny boy," replied the doctor; " look out for the diamond rungs, James." "Oh, it is not much," answered the boy, "to give what one does not want."   192      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "My beloved children," replied the old man, in a sweet, persuasive voice, a cup of water given kindly, may have power to draw us to the bosom of (ur God." Anxious as Rose was to make a confidant of Dr. Kelly, Zand to have his advice before she again met Henry Daly, yet, by tieT   te boys had retired it was too late to do so. She wished, too, that the doctor would introduce the sub- ject himself, and she had little doubt, judging from his mnan- ner toward her, on the evening he invited her to the Grove, but that he would avail hinself of the first opportunity to do so. Knowing him to be an early riser, she resolved, if possible, to ineet him on the following morning, before the othler members of the family had left their rooms. Ac. cordingly, she was up very early, and on opening her win. dow she saw the doctor, at a distance, in-his garden. Hasti- ly dressing, she threw a shwl around her, and hurried to join him. She found the old man busy with the gardener, taking up flower roots. ' Ah, Rose," he said, when he saw her, "'my beautiful Rose in bloom even in dreary winter. Good morning; come until I show youi these daha roots. Ah, you should have seen my dahas in bloom last summer; that little misx, Emily, never had anything like theml, at Dalystown.'" "By dad, sir," said the gardener, "Miss Daly's wasn't a bit behind them, this year. 'Twas myself gave her the roots, and I done my endeavors to pick out the healthiest I could for her.' "Well, John,"' replied the doctor, ' I yield to your better judgment; but I thought those we had here were finer than the ones I saw at Dalystown. After all, I suppose the difference was, that the flowers which grew in my own gar- den seemed to me finer than those in my neighbr's. I will leave you, John, to finish the raising of these roots, for it does not suit my old back, very well, to be stooping; come, Rose, we will take a turn through the garden before break- ria st." When they had reached the end of one of the wallcs, the dtoctor said, " come now, Rose, tell me all,-not that you and Henry love each other; I know that, this many a day. But has lie not spoken to you; what did he say, and mwhlat dlid you say? That is what I want to know."    THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN.      193 The doctor felt the hand, that rested on his arm, tremble, and her voice was weak aud hurried, as she commenced to speak, but he encouraged her with gentle words, and before she concluded her timidity had passed away, and she met his eyes with an open, innocent look. 'I have told you all," she concluded, , I came here for the purpose of doing so; I am an orphan, and come to you as a father- counsel me what to do, and do not think so poorly of me as to suppose that I will not have strength to follow the course you would point out." "You are a good, noble-hearted girl, Rose," replied Dr. Kelly, and were Henry Daly my son. I would, so help me Heaven, cross an ocean to win him such a bride; but, sit- uated as he is at present, his marriage with you would en- tail misfortune, not alone on yourselves, but on others whom you both love." "I know it," replied the young girl. "Every hour it is clearer and clearer to me." "So you have told me, Rose," said the doctor, "else I could scarcely have brought myself to say such cruel words ; for you love him, Rose, with all your true woman's heart." "I do, I do," she answered. "Oh how I blame myselfnow, for letting this love take such hold of my heart." "My poor child," replied the doctor, ," do not be so fool. ish, as to blame yourself. Henry is as worthy of your love as you are of his. It was as natural that your hearts should turn to each other as it is for the flower to open to the sun. There is no one to blame, and, this being so, 1 wish I could say that there were no obstacles to your happiness." "Yes, doctor," said Rose, " good. and kind as Mr. Daly has been to me, I know well how it would wound his family pride to see his son married to the daughter of his stew- ard. Oh! what an ingrate he would deem me, did I consent to such a  thing. Might he not well say to me,--,you whom I nurtured in my bosom and treated as my own child, have I bestowed upon you education and accomplish- ments, but that you mKight be the better able to rob me of my son, and tarnish the honor of my family " ' The doctor smiled, as he answered: ' Rose, your excited feelings make you unjust to yourself and others. I My 13    .   194      THE'DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. old friend, Godfrey Daly, would never speak anything half so silly as that." Rose looked up surprised. "Pardon me, Rose," continued the doctor, again smiling. 'Poetical if you like, but decidedly silly. If he knew of this love between you and Henry, (and that he has not foreseen it or does not now suspect it, shows how guileless and unsuspicious the man's nature is) he would deem it, as I do,-' nothing but natural ;'-and would never speak such nonsense as you have put into his mouth ; but though I say this, I will acknowledge that it would fret him; first, because, like all his class, he is full of old family pride, which he clings to the more tenaciously as he feels pecuniary dif- ficulties undermining his position. Secondly, because, to my own knowledge, he has been thinking of late that Hen- ry might redeem the property by a marriage with some wealthy girl,-a thing, Rose, very practicable, if his affec- tions were disengaged. You see I speak plainly to you, my child. Now, as for this family pride which we have been talking about, Mr. Daly's great affection for you, his almost idolatrous love for his son, and his anxiety to see him happy, are things which would quickly overcome it. He would be happy in witnessing the happiness of those dear to him, and a limited income would make little difference to one who, for years, had mixed so little in society. But the real, ac- tual difficulty is, Rose, that neither Mr. Daly or Henry are at present free agents. My poor friend's affairs are in a frightful state ; he has gone on borrowing money from time to time, until I believe the property owes nearly as much as it is worth. His easy nature and kind heart have led, in a great measure, to this; for when a bad year came, he would not press his. tenants, although pressed himself. He preferred to borrow the money required, and the next year the tenants would pay up. But they never did so, and the money thus borrowed remains a blister on the property. The result is, that almost all his income goes now to pay interest, and interest upon interest. Almost all the mort- gages on Mr. Daly's property are due, and nothing prevents the holders of them from foreclosing, bnt the idea that Hen- ry Daly will pay them off with his wife's fortune, whoever   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN.      195 she may be. There is O'Roarke, for instance; the moment he fouud that by Henry's marriage with you, Mr. Daly was deprived of all chance for redeeming his shattered fortunes, he would, I have no doubt, let loose his worthy brother-in- law at my poor friend. He never; I feel convinced, fed him with money as he has done, without the sinister design of being, perhaps, one day master of Dalystown." Dr. Kelly paused and looked at Rose. She was very pale, but as she met his eye she said, " go on, doctor, pray go on." "I have little more to say, my child," replied the doctor, "I have spoken to you as to a daughter, nor have I done so without giving myself pain. Old as I am, I can feel for your young heart." " lay God bless you," she replied, "you have indeed act- ed the part of a true friend; and if, after what you have shown to me, I hesitated to fly at once, I would be unwor- thy of your friendship." '"You will never do aught to make you undeserving of it,. Rose," he answered, " but, my brave little heart, you must not fly; that is the very thing I feared, and which made me, anxious to speak with you. Henry Daly is a fine, sensible young fellow, and a dutiful son; but, with your permission, Rose, all men in love are more or less mad."' Rose looked at the doctor, to see if- he was joking. "Well, Rose," he said, replying to her looks, "I will mod- ify my expression, and say that a man in love is not always governed by reason, and that is much about the same thing.' "I think not, doctor," said Rose, " becaase one has no rea- son to guide him, the other has, but refuses to be guided by it."             ' "Well said, my little disputant," exclaimed the doctor, "But does not his refusal prove insanity? I am glad," he continued, stopping in his walk and gazing upon the beau- tiful, intellectual face of the girl, "I am glad, Rose, you a have answered me as you have, for I have now a clearer, insight into the strength of your mind than I ever had be- fore. - It is a fine, well regulated one, Rose. Not a girl in ten thousand could thus have answered, were they in your place, and after listening to what I have been saying to you, and yet it is such as you, who love! for a lifetime."   196      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. The doctor gazed so intently at Rose, (he was an old man, reader, of seventy-five,) that she blushed, and turning to the side of the walk, commenced to pluck some sprigs of mignionette. "I have often remarked," mused the old man, "this strength of character in those whom God had deprived in early life of their parents. The great Architect takes not away the props which support the temple, without adding to the strength of the temple itself." Rose turned round, and as she placed the mignionette in the doctor's hand she said: "You were about to speak of Henry." "' Yes," he answered, I was about to say that sensible and dutiful as Henry is, were you to leave suddenly and return to England, he would, in all probability, follow you. With his present excited feelings, he would find plenty of ex- cuses to justify himself to himself, for doing so. Once he took such a step, who could tell what follies it might lead to? No, Rose, you must remain, you and Henry must ac. custom yourselves to meet; while, strong in the conscious- ness of performing your duty, you leave the future in the hands of God. For think not, my child, because your love is earthly, He will be unmindful of your sorrow. We can- not look into the future, but is it not fashioned by Him. to whom it is as the present? Henry and you are both young. If you love each other truly and well, why, you can wait. If this is but the'idle fancy of a boy and girl that will not bear the test of time, it is well it should go no further; both of you are too young not to hope for bright days. So you see, Rose, if, like a cruel old doctor, I have been cutting deep into that little heart, I wish not to leave it without, applying some salve to the w6und. I will see Henny tnl very day, for one thing which I wish to impress upoa you, is, that all who love Godfrey Daly, must, for a time, forget self, and guard him, as best they may, from the sorrows which are gathering around his old age. You know, Rose, what happiness it will give Mrs. Kelly and myself, if you niakQ this your home for some time. I see the servant com- ing to call us in to breakfast, run on before me, dear, your step is quicker than mine, and arrange those ringlets, that \   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      197 j the wind has been playing with, or my wife will say that you and I have been romping,? Thus the old man made Rose precede him to the house in order that she should have a few moments to herself, be- fore meeting the family at the breakfast table. CHAPTER XVIII. IN WHCH TIM O'ROARKE SENDS HS FATHER A WOOING FOR HM- HOW HE PROSPERED-TIM PRACTICES THE ART OF LOVE WITH AN HUMBLE HANDMAIDEN OF HS FATHER'S-O'ROARKE'S SKEL- ETON RISES BEHND HM. "I tell you, Tim, I don't half like this business that you have persuaded me to go upon. I have my misgivings that the old gentleman will fire up at me, and I'm mortally afraid to broach it at all to him." Thus spoke Mr. John O'Roarke, as he and his son sat at breakfast, on the same morning that Doctor Kelly and Rose had the conversation recorded in the last chapter. It was evident that Mr. O'Roarke was going on a special mission and was dressed for the occasion. He wore a black cloth coat, with broad- skirts and a high stiff collar, that seemed bent on cutting off his red ears, a thing, by the way, which the common hangman should haye done years before. The cuffs of his sleeves were vulgarly turned up, as he ate his breakfast, and the creases down the back and in the skirts showed that it was some time since it v as worn before;  a large shawl pattern handlkerchief w:s round his neck; a black waistcoat, yellowish cassimere trousers, and thick boots completed his costume. His   198      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. large red cotton handkerchief was converted, pro tem., into a napkin and lay spread upon his lap, " lest (as he said) he might soil his trousers," and what between his doubts as to the success of the mission he had undertaken, and the uncomfortable feel that a vulgar man always has in new clothes, Mr. O'Roarke felt anything but happy. What was the nature of this mission? Why, it was this: Prevailed upon by the importunities of Tim, and fooled by his own purse-proud presumption, he was about to go to Dalystown to ask Godfrey Daly, on the part of Tim, for the hand of his child. Such a thought never would have come into O'Roarke's mind if the jackanapes vanity of Tim had not suggested it to him. We have seen, on the first occasion of his sons's alluding to the matter, how contemptuously he treated his pretensions; but Tim kept harping on the subject until, as it became familiar to his father's mind, it appeared attainable. Godfrey Daly was in his power; he had the screw on him, as Tim observed. 'Aye, and could turn it, until he squeezed the very blood out of his heart." "What will not a man do in such a position? Much more than he was going to ask of Mr. Daly; for was not he (O'Roarke,) a magistrate and an estated gentleman? He would not ask that the girl should bring one penny to his son; on the contrary, he was will- ing to give up the mortgage he held on the property, if the old man would consent to the match; faith, some people would say that the compliment was on his side." Thus argued Mr. John O'Roarke, over and over in his own mind, and such reasoning did much to assist Tim in getting his father to undertake his love mission; but now, as he was about to set out, his confidence became shaken, and the purse-proud buckeen feared the scornful look with which his proposal might be received by the ruined gen- tleman. "I don t half like this business," repeated O'Roarke, " but I suppose it must be gone through. Hand me the taypot, Tim." "Tea, guvner." "Eh ." queried O'Roarke. "Tea, not tay, is the proper word, guvner," replied Tim.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     199 In By Jove, father, you must polish up a little, if I make this connection.", ," Blast you and your polishing," was the parental rejoin- der. "I tell you Tim, as I told you before, that I am too old to learn. So do you manage the fine airs and the fine talk, and leave me as I am." "Oh, don't be vexed, dad," replied Tim, who was far from wishing to anger his father, just now. "I was only joking. But why should you think that there is any chance of old Daly refusing your offer? You said, but two nights ago, that he would be mad to do so."  "And I say so still. If I could but get him to look at this matter like a sensible man of business, I would be able to show him, easy enough, that it was more for his advan- tage than for mine. But it is that Devil's pride, which all he has gone through could never quench, in his eyes, that is against us, and it is that which I dread." * "Well, sir," replied Tim, "1 can't you take that out of him by asking for your money?" "Faith, Tim," said O'Roarke, with a heavy imile, " you have more brains than I gave you credit for. Let me alone for that, my boy. I'll ask him for the money first, and then for the wife." And he laughed; the very mention of his money had revived his assurance.   . "But suppose Daly ahould consent, Tim," said O'Roarke, suddenly, as a new idea occurred to him, one indeed of such minor importance, in his mind, that he suggested it now more to see what answer Tim would make, than to satisfy, any uneasiness he himself might have had on the subject. - "Suppose Daly does give his consent, maybe the girl her- self will not be willing to have you."7 "Why, what objection can she have?"' asked Tim, with an indescribable look of vain folly on his face. "By dad, Tim," replied his father, " you won't undervalue your pigs, when you bring them to market." "I don't see that it does a man any good to do it either," said Tim. "You're right there, my boy, love is sharpening your wits, Tim." i' You see, dad," said Tim, quite elated at his father's recog-   200      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. nition of his possessing any brains, a thing which the elder O!Roarke seemed, heretofore, skeptical about, "I have con- sidered the matter over. If Mr. Daly consents to the match, he will say: 'My dear O'Roarke, let your son speak for himself, to my daughter, he shall have my good wishes. Let the young people get together,' and so on. Then, guv. ner, you lay off and I take up the running. I go to Dalys. town, throw myself at Emily Daly's feet, declare my pas. sion, stab myself" - "Stab yourself.?" exclaimed his father. "No, no,-threaten to stab myself. I read all about it in a novel. Then!" "Stop, Tim," you confuse me by such balderdash, and I am confused enough already. One thing you are right in; all I have to do in the matter is to try and get Daly's con. sent. Do you manage the girl as you think best, but mind, avick, you don't spoil your part by too many outlandish airs." "But, dad," said Tim, " if you and the old gentleman come to terms, you must get him to prepare Miss Daly to receive me--kindly, mind you. She will do anything he tells her, and it would be just as well if you could delicately hint to him to let her know all about the money he owes you, it would help to humble her, for she has, when she likes, a deuced cold, proud look in those blue eyes of hers, that I'd just as soon not meet, when offering my heart and hand. 'Pon honor, it would take me quite aback, and I don't know but that I would be half inclined to-to"- "Stab yourself," suggested his father. "No, faith," innocently answered Tim, " but to turn tail and run away." "I suppose that's what you call ' taking up the running?"' said O'Roarke, putting the red napkin to its legitimate use, and then into his pocket. "But the whole trouble will be to get the father to consent. The girl will be said by him, for I am told she is bidable enough. Go and get the gig round. Is Mike Shaughnesy ready?" '"Yes sir." "Tell him he needn't mind the blunderbuss, the pistols will do. We'll be home early and I'd as soon not have a gun   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN-.      201 standing up in the gig before the door at Dalystown. Did you see Sargeant Murphy, yesterday?" "I did, sir." "Well, what did he say about the state of the country?' "He said things were quiet enough now, but he thinks it only a calm before a storm., '"Can he find out anything about their going-ons lately?" "No, but he thinks he knows one that will soon turn an informer." "What's the reason, does he say, the government don't send down more police to this part of the country'?" "He says the government, he supposes, doesn't think things are ripe enough yet." "Aye," said O'Roarke, " that's the way with them always; they let those disturbances run on -until men are shot down at their own doors; upon my conscience I believe they encourage this business underhand, for some purposes of their own." Well guessed, Mr. O'Roarke, and quite true, and if a few scoundrels, like you, are shot, why, all the better. As Tim says, is you lay off, and the government takes up the running," and amid the' yells of Exeter Hall, the mouth- ings of parliament and claptrap regrets of a royal speech, it commences to slay, hang and transport the unfortunate people, who, backed by unjust, oppressive laws, you were enabled to rob, starve and trample upon, until murder itself lost its dark name and was called, even by the good, "the wild justice of revenge." But though O'Roarke dispensed with his blunderbuss on his matrimonial visit to Dalystown, he took special care to arm himself with sundry bills, bonds, and mortgages, with which he resolved to commence his attack on Godfrey Daly. It must not be supposed that O'Roarke was a man to take all this trouble, and to forfeit money besides, merely to please his-son; no such thing. Now that he was led to believe it feasible, he was far more interested in the suc- cess of his mission than Tim himself. He was now a rich man and could afford to give up plundering the poor. He wanted to become a respectable man, and be permitted to enjoy his plunder in peace. He was getting old, too, and   202      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. tired of being hated. Tim's marriage with Emily Daly would give both father and son caste in the country. Peo- ple would not be so apt to sneer at the pretensions of God- frey Daly's son-in-law as they were now at those of O'Roarke's son; and if the peasantry never could be got to respect O'Roarke himself, yet they would be apt to let him live in peace, and pass him by without a cuirse, for the love they bore the Dalystown family. Yes! Emily Daly, under his roof, would be a better protection than a file of sol- diers. After his father had left, Tim amused himself for some time dancing about the room, stopping now and then to address the invisible Emily in very flowery language. After a little, he bethought that he had better dress him- self "in tip top style," not knowing how soon a special messenger might arrive to summon him to her presence. Accordingly he returned to his'room, which was off the one in which he and his father had breakfasted, and commenced to saturate his head with oil-then he nearly strangled himself with "a flare up " satin scarf. His toilet was not half comnleted when the servant girl came into the outer room to take away the breakfast tiings. Mr. O'Roarke kept but one servant maid, so the girl- had not alone to act as cook, housemaid, &c., but likewise to. attend to the raising and feeding of several flocks of geese, turkeys and chickens, and she had just been in the act of feeding the latter with a compound of cabbage leaves, po- tato skins and kitchen stuff, which she carried to them in her apron, when, on seeing her master take his departure, she hurried to make up the parlor, not deeming it at all necessary to take off the soiled apron before doing so. When Tim heard her bustling about the room, a bright idea struck himn, he would make Biddy personate Emily Daly, and practice the love speech he had prepared for that young lady's ear. So, without waiting to finish his toilet, he hurried into the parlor. "Come here, Biddy," said he " and leave by that brush." "What do vou want wld me?" said the girl, keeping on her guard, for Tim was in the habit of trying to romp with her in his father's absence.   TH'E DALY : Vy UOb' DAL TU W N, VO "I want to make love to you, for a few minutes, Biddy,"' replied Tim. , Bad 'cess to your impudence. Faith, I'll lave the h'ouse, if you carry on so. Stand back,-I tell you, or, by my soul, I'll open your head with the brush." Here Tim made a sudden jump, and avoiding a blow Bid- dy let fly at him, caught her round the waist. "Let me out," cried the girl, now thoroughly roused to an- ger, " let me out you dirty omedhawn, or it will be worse for you; do you want to tear the bits of duds off my back? Let me out, I say. Listen to my gown tearing; faith, it's long afore you'd think of buying me one." "Listen to me, Biddy," pleaded Tim, still detaining her. "'Pon honor, I don't mean any harm. I don't want you, Biddy, to be yourself at all." "And who the dickens do you want me to be? Faith, I believe it's taking lave of your senses, you are." "No, Biddy, but if you listen quietly for a moment, I will explain what I want you to do, and, 'pon honor, I'll buy you a new gown the next day I go to T ." The girl stopped struggling to listen to Tim. "I only want you, Biddy," he continued, '-to sit down on that chair, and let me make love to you." tere Biddy gave a great swing, and Tim hurriedly added: "Not to yourself at all, Biddy, but to a young lady that I am going to ask to marry me, and you're to be her, that is, you're to stand for Jher,-no, to sit for her, while I am saying to you--that is to her,-what I am to say to you-no, but to her. Do you understand me .' "Partly," she answered, looking at him. "Faith, I believe you are going to coort; you're dressed to the nines. Well, if I sit down to please you, mind you're to behave yourself." "Honor bright, " said Tim. "And not be catching hoult of me," bargained Biddy, "Unless your hand," answered Tim. ' Nor trying to hug me."  "I might be impelled to kiss you." "Let me out," exclaimed Biddy " the dickens a kiss ever you'll give me."   TIE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "But, Biddy, it would be in the most respectful manner,' urged Tim. " Oh, a kiss is a kiss," answered the girl, who was now be. ginning to be amused by his folly. " Well, I suppose I may kiss your hand." "Oh, you may kiss my hand and welcome," she replied, " it's accustomed to dirty work. And upon your sowl you'll give me the new gown." "'Pon honor." " Well, let go av me, and I'll sit down, but don't keep me long, for I have a power of work to do." Biddy accordingly seated herself on a chair; but, owing to his tussle with her, Tim's ideas had become a little con- fused. So he walked about the room for a few moments, to collect his thoughts, the girl meanwhile regarding him with a look full of mirth. At length he placed a chair next to her's and sat down. "Ahem,-ahem," said Tim. "There's a spit in your throat, jewel," said Biddy. " Stop, Biddy," exclaimed Tim, " you are not to speak at all, or you will put me out. Ahem! Dearest, turn those lovely eyes, let them gaze into this poor heart and see how your image fills it, from the basement to the upper story." " Faith, I never thought there was up stairs in a body's heart afore," said Biddy. ' There are chambers, Biddy," replied Tim. "But maybe they're all on the ground floore, love, said Biddy. "For heaven's sake stop !" cried Tim. 'Pon honor you'll not get the gown unless you keep quiet.  ly this lily hand I swear, that if you will bestow it upon me, I will cherish it like-like "- "Young cabbages," suggested Miss Daly, pro tern. " Like-like anything," said Tim, bothered for a simile. "Ah, Miss Daly," he continued,-" dare I call you Emily? Yes, by jingo, I will. Emily? Ha, your hand trembles. (so it did, for Biddywas shaking with laughter.) You will be mine ' Behold me on my knees. I bow my head tohear you say      What the devil is that?" cried Tim, splutter- ing and jumping up, while Biddy, springing up likewise,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.   205   ran until she got the table between herself and Miss Daly's would-be lover, when, placing her hands upon her sides, she shouted with laughter. The reason of this abrupt termination to Tim's love scene was, that in his excitement he had buried his face in Biddy's lap, from whence he quickly withdrew it, covered with particles of cabbage leaves and potato skins which had remained on the girl's apron. " I say, what the devil's on my face ?" exclaimed Tim. "It's the chicken pox you tuck 'from my apron, love," replied Biddy; " oh, holy Saint Patrick, look at his face," and she went off into another and another peal of laughter. 'Tim hurried into the next room and the girl made her escape to the kitchen, but even at that distance he could hear her laughter, as he endeavored to remove from his satin scarf the many stains that Biddy's chicken pox had given to it. "And so," soliloquized Biddy, when she was weary of laughing, "its Miss Emily Daly you'd be putting your comehither on. Na boclish ma bouchel * its not come to that yet, for the dove to lie in the jackdaw's nest. I wonder will he give me the gown? Sarra gown! Sure none of his breed ever kept their word with a poor body:' When O'Roarke arrived at Dalystown he was shown into the study, where Mr. Daly was at the time. Doctor Kelly had arrived a short time previously, and he and Henry had walked but together. When O'Roarke entered the room, Mr. Daly's face flushed for a moment, and thlen grew a shade paler than it was before. He arose politely to re- ceive his visitor. "Beautiful weather, Mr. Daly, for this time of year," said O'Roarke, as he took the chair the former motioned him to 'I hope all the family, are well, sir ?" "Quite well, thank you, O'Roarke." " Oh, ah! what would be the matter with young people, and how do you enjoy your own health, sir? But I needn't ask you, you're looking hearty and well." Mr. Daly smiled, for he did not believe that he looked very hearty at that moment. * Never mind, my boy.  206      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "I do not complain, O'Roarke," he replied "and that is the most you can expect from an old man. "An old man," exclaimed the other, "do you hear how he talks." This last observation was seemingly addressed to the fire shovel. "You're anything but an old man; I'd just as leave have your name in a lease as my son Tim's. ' "You are unusually complimentary, O'Roarke. "Not a bit of it, sir ; I don'tknow anything about compli- ments; I'm a plain man, Mr. Daly, but I ever and always had a great regard ifor yourself and your family." "Then your friendship deceives you " said Mr. Daly, again "Ay," answered' O'Roarke, "I have my friendships and dislikes, like others." There was an awkward pause of a few moments. Mr Daly, lhad no doubt but that O'Roarke's visit was connected witl money matters, and was nervously anxious for its termina- "You will take a glass of wine after your drive, O'Roarke," "Not a drop, Mr. Daly; I thank you, I never touch a drop This was a vef'y usual remark of Mr. O'Roarke's just be- fore touching a stronger drink than wine, so .Mr. Dal, paid little attention to it, but pulled the bell and ordered the servant who answered his summons, to bring in some here is Mr. Henry?" he asked of the man, as the lat- ter was leaving the room,I "e antd Doctor Kelly are gone out to, walk sir," the servant answered. , Doctor Kelly," said Mr. Daly, when did he arrive . "About an hour ago, sir,' and he and Mr. Henry went out "Very well, James, bring the wine. Isuppose," contit ued Mr. Daly, addressing O'Roarke, "the doctor had to make a professional call in the neighborhood, and brought Renry along with him."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      207 "Just so, sir," replied O'Roarke, " Faith, they send for Doctor Kelly when they're no more sick than I am." "Why so?" asked Mr. Daly. "'Just to knock something out of him," answered O'Roarke. "I hope you are wrong, sir," said Mr. Daly. "It would be altogether an unnecessary piece of deception. It does not require much knocking to bring the doctor's heart out of ddors." "Oh, the doctor, no doubt, is a tenderhearted gentleman,7" replied O'Roarke. "  I'm told, sir, that Mr. Henry has got to be a great man of business. How does he find the ten- ants .?' "I believe they are willing enough to pay their rents," replied Mr. Daly, " but they have been sadly neglected by myself. I allowed them to crowd in too much on the land." "Ay, that was a great mistakef said O'Roarke. "Yet what could I do," continued Mr. Daly, standing up and walking about the room,'" driven as they were from house and home by-----  He stopped, for the chief exterminator of those poor peo- ple'was before him. O'Roarke felt why it was that Mr. Daly had so suddenly paused, and it was a relief to both when the servant entered with the wine. "Come O'Roarke," said Mr. Daly, filling up a glass, "I think you will find this good." "Well as you had the trouble of filling it out, Mr. Daly, I believe I will. Here's your good health, sir." "Thank you. Did you come direct from home to-day?" 'I did, sir, I wanted to see you on a little business." Mr. Daly nodded his head; he wished him to -speak out at once. This beating about the bush was intolerable to him.  "You know, sir, that the interest on the mortgage will be due next month," said O'Roarke. "Yes, but I have six weeks afterwards within which to pay it." "Ay," answered 0'Roarke, by paying an additional one- per-cent, and if the money is handy it will be as well to keep down the interest; but that won't make any difference between us., If it was any one btt yourself that had the   208      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. money, I'd call it in, now that the time for paying it has ex- pired, for I'd like to have it so that I could put my hand on it, in case I got a chance to buy some more land. You see, sir, my son, Tim, is a grown-up young man, and I'd like Lo see him settled in a place of his own, and doing for himself." 4' I thought I would have had your money for you before this," replied Mr. Daly. "My son, when last in Dublin, was negotiating with a gentleman for the loan of a sum that would have paid you and some others of my creditors, but for some reason that Henry is ignorant of, the matter was suddenly broken off." "Ay, 'twas unlucky," said O'Roarke, "I wouldn't mind how long you had the money, but that I am anxious to set- tle the boy. Do you think, Mr. Daly, you could manage to raise as much as would pay off the bond I hold for two .thous- and pounds." " Why, replied the other, that money was not to be called in for four years, if I am not mistaken, and but two of them have, as yet, expired." "You're right enough, sir," answered O'Roarke, "I I have the bond with me and can look at the date."' As he spoke, he pulled out of his large pocket a lot of papers and commenced to look over them. "It is unnecessary," replied Mr. Daly, "t you surely did not expect that I could pay you to-day, that you brought all these papers with you?" "No, Mr. Daly, but as I came to speak on business, I thought I'd bring thlem along, they're handy. You see, the reason I mentioned the bond was, that if you could pay it, say in three months, the mortgage might stand out. I'lr not greedy for the money, by no manner of means, and I'd as soon leave it all standing out as not, but, as I told you bef )re, I want to settle the boy. He's a good, dutiful son, Mr. Daly, though I say it." ("I am glad to hear it, O'Roarke," replied Mr. Daly, "but I will not deceive you by saying that I have any hope of being able to pay you even a portion of your principal, within three months. I had even half resolved to ask you for time for the payment of the interest, so pressed am I just now, for money. After a little, perhaps, Henry may do something."   i      t   f THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      209& "Ay," replied O'Roarke, "Mr. Henry is a fine young man and will get a lady with a large fortune one of these days. You see, sir, that's why I want to buy a little property for Tim. I want him to get married and to have something of' his own to settle on his wife. To be sure, when I am gone,. he'll have all."  Mr. Daly bowed. "I know that Tim might get a wife any day," continned O'Roarke,'as he glanced from time to time at Mr. Daly watching the expression of the latter's countenance, while he unmasked, by degrees, the real object of his visit, ' but it is not every girl that would please me, Mr. Daly." . Mr. Daly again bowed. "I'll be bound," continued O'Roarke, "if I sent him up to Dublin he'd soon get one, with money too; But I don't want one oft that kind.--I don't want him to bring home Xo me a stranger. The wife that I wish is one that is known in the country, one who will bring him respect. Yes, let him bring me such a one, and I'll never ask if she had the marriage money. Ay, I'd do more. The mortgage and the bond we were just talking about, make up together, a round: sum; wel, I'd put them both into the fire, Mr. Daly, if I got my own choosing of a wife for Tim." He stopped and filled himself out a glass of wine. As he drank it off he looked askant at Mr. Daly, to note the effect of this broad hint, but O'Roarke was but a bungler at read- ing the human countenance, and Mr. Daly's now entirely de-. ceived him,-- its expression was abstracted and thoughtful. Tim's future prospects having no share in his thoughts. O'Roarke perceived the care-worn shadow that rested on his- face, and mistook it for the struggle of pride, with hard ne- cessity. He thought if he followed up the attack he woiuld be sure of victory. "Strike while the iron is hot," was a, favorite expression of his. "Yes, Mr. Daly," heI continued as he laid down the glass,. and struck the table with his large hand, "say but the word, and mortgage, bond and all go into the fire." '"Say what, O'Roarke g' asked Mr. Daly starting from his reverie. "Oh, sure you know well what I mean. Give me Misgs " '         I   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOUwN. Daly, for a wife tor Tim, and I'll give you a clear receipt for every penny you owe me,- ay, and settle something handsome on the young lady besides." Mr. Daly started from his chair. " God of heaven," he exclaimed," are we so fallen indeed What, has it come to this, that you, sir, presume to come into this house, to ask me to sell my child to you ? Not a word, sir," he said stamping on the ground, as he saw O'Roarke about to speak, "not a word until you hear me. So it was for this you came here to-day, armed with your bonds and mortgages! You would show me how much I was in your'power, and then expect, that to escape from itI would sell to you my child. Now, hear my answer: So help me heaven, I would sooner see my daughter, I will not say dead, that would be as nothing, but, rather than that she should become your son's wife, I would take her by the hand, and with a wallet on my back, beg our bread from door to door."  These two men formed a fine contrast at this moment. Mr. Daly, tall and erect, as in his youth ; his lips compressed, his eyes flashing, the hot blood of his race glowing in his furrowed cheek. O'Roarke, cowering beneath those words of passionate scorn, his head bent, his thick lips quivering, his whole countenance livid with the passion he feared to give utterance to,-a beast of prey, longing, yet fearing to spring upon his victim. At length he spoke, but without raising his head: " I didn't come here, sir, to insult you, or to be insulted myself; I came to ask for my money,-that's why I brought these papers. I suppose a man has a right to ask for his OWnll. " Yes," replied Mr. Daly, "you have a right to ask for your money, and if I am unable to pay you, you have an equal right to sell my property. It is on my-lands, sir, your claims are. Look at your bonds, you will find nothing in them whereby I am obliged to sacrifice my own honor, or the happiness of my child." " Well, sir," said O'Roarke, "there's no harm done. Of course, Mr. Daly, you'll not blame me after this for looking for my own the best way I can."   211   "Go sir, go,' replied Godfrey Daly, "and do your worst. I know you, I see in your face this moment the malice that fills your heart; but I care not! Possess yourself of my lands, my house,-all, everything, and the distance between us shall still remain the same; look you that you never again presume to try and lessen it." As Mr. Daly concluded, O'Roarke arose, and, without uttering a word, or raising his eyes, he made an awkward bow, and left the room. Almost choked with rage, he hur. ried to his gig, in which one of his bailiffs sat, and taking the reins out of the man's hands, drove off at a furious pace. It was well for Tim that his father had to drive some miles before meeting with him, for the first outburst of his rage was directed against his son. " The cursed jackanapes," he muttered through his closed teeth," to make me suffer such shame,-to make me as great a fool as himself. Mightn't I know the way it would be? But, by    , Godfrey Daly, we'll try now who will have the best of the game. I:ll write this very day to Lyons. He's only watching to get at him this many a day." "What's the matter, master," said the fellow who sat be- side him. O'Roarke turned round and scowled at the man, for he was unconscious that he had given his thoughts utterance; then striking his horse two or three times heavily with the whip, he drove on in silence. There were a number of ornamental clumps of trees in the Dalystown park, and when O'Roarke's gig had passed one of these, which stood close to the avenue, a man jumped out, and, muttering a curse, shook his hand after the retreating vehicle. It was Bryan Lorkin, the same man whom we have seen in the Ribbon lodge, vol-- unteering to shoot O'Roarke. Doctor, Kelly and Henry Daly, as they returned to the house, recognized O'Roarke as he drove from the door, and not wishing to meet him, they walked on, keeping the trees between themselves and him; so when Lorkinjumped out, they were quite close to the latter. "Is not that Bryan Lorkin, Henry?" said Doctor Kelly." "Yes," replied his companion, "what can he have been doing in there; see how he shakes his hand after O'Roarke."   212      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Yes," said the doctor, "he has good cause to do so. I have been looking for this man for some time. The last time I spoke with him, I thought he seemed affected in his mind. He is just the one for lawless men to make a dangerous tool of. You know his story, Henry ." "Yes, doctor." "It is a sad one enough, continued Doctor Kelly. "My God, what a wreck it has made of him! You must remember him, yourself, Henry, a fine looking fellow. Hallo Bryan,' called the doctor, " come here." So intently was the man watching O'Roarke's retreating figure that he did not perceive the two gentlemen advanc- ing. At the sound of the doctor's voice he turned round, and seemed inclined to make a hasty retreat, but the doctor again called out, this time in a more peremptory tone of voice, "Do you hear, Bryan? Come here, I wish to speak with you." The man slowly advanced, and took off his hat. "What has come over you, Bryan," said the doctor, "you looked as if you were going to run away from me." The man fixed his sunken eyes upon the doctor's face, and the stern, almost demon expression of his looks softened, as he replied, more to his own thoughts than to the doctor's remark, "You did your best to bring her through, and sure you thought she was doing well. Them were your very words, doctor, I mind them well. But you didn't bargain for the wet ditch and the cold rain; they weretoo many for you doc- tor, clever as you are. By dad, Mr. Henry, they bet him clever and clean." And he gave a bitter laugh, Who could describe the agony of that laugh, or how pain- fully it fell upon the ears of his listeners, sickening their very hearts. "Come up to the house, Bryan," said Henry Daly, "the doctor wants to speak to you and he can do so as we walk along*" "It wouldn't be the first time for me to do that same, sir," he replied, " but sure the dogs would bark at the likes of me was I to gooup there now."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      213 "Leave him to me," whispered the doctor to Henry. "Bry- an,"he said aloud, "you remember when your wife took sick?" "Oh voh,' exclaimed Lorkin. "Well," continued the doctor, ' before her senses left her, I promised her that if she died I would be a friend to you. You know I have tried to keep that promise, but you would never let me. You avoid me, and go wandering about the country until you are half crazed. Is this right of you? Are you not putting yourself against God that sent the sorrow to your door .?" "It wasn't God, doctor, it was O'Roarke." "How dare you tell me so, Bryan Lorkin?" answered the doctor. "Do you not know that all the O'Roarkes in the world could not do it, unless God allowed them'? and do you not think that if Mary could know the way you are going on, it would fret her to see the state you have brought your- self to." "O yes, doctor," he replied, "I often think of that, but any- how, they say there is never rest for them that's murdered, as long as the murderer remains alive." - "What stuffisf this you have got into your head, Bryan?" said the doctor, as he closely watched the expression of the man's eyes. Why are you talking about murders and mur- derers, in this way?"Your wife died of a fever that car- ried off hundreds at the same time." "Whisht, doctor," he replied in almost angry tones, "she was murdered, and you know she was,--murdered be- fore my eyes. Didn't I see the cold rain beating on her heart, and him that did it is gone down there, rolling in his gig. Well, well, there's a God above us all." "Bryan," proceeded the doctor, "I hear that of late you have been seen very often in the company of a man of the name of Maloney, a fellow that no one knows where he came from, and one, too, that does not bear a very good char- acter." "See that, now," said Lorkin; "by dad, doctor, I did not think any one would mind who the likes of me would keep company with. Faith then, doctor dear, that same Mfalo- ney has fine talk of his own about the wrongs of Ireland." 5 *-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Just as I supposed," said Dr. Kelly, turning to Henry, "some villainous incendiary. I must speak to your father about this. Where are you going to, Bryan ?" The man had commenced to move off.- "By dad, doctor, I promisped poor Mary's brother to go to him this week, to help him with the plowing, and it's a good bit from this." " What were you doing in the plantation there ?" "Weden, never a haporth but looking for a boltheen for my flail. Mr. Daly, long life to him, never hinders one from cutting a stick." " You are sure, Bryan, that it is to your brother-in-law's you are going' You would not tell me a lie, I hope." "No, doctor, on my sowl it is there I am goin." " And when will you return ?" " Maybe in a fortnight, doctor, tne plowing won't be over much sooner. When will the races be, Mr. Henry '? " In about three weeks, I think, Bryan," answered Henry. "Well, I must be back to them, anyhow." "Why, Bryan," said the doctor, " what do you want at the races ?" "Musha then nothing, doctor," he replied, "I only said that to make you and Mr. Henry laugh." "Bryan," said Dr. Kelly, "I want to get some plowing done; I know that you are a good hand at the plow, will you promise to come to me when you return from your brother-in-law's ?" "I will, doctor. Sure it's the only work I can do now; for may I never sin, gentlemen, but when I do be in the field alone, Mary comes with the weeny child in her arms, and walks up and down the whole length of the furrow with me, and I discoorse her, and that keeps me quiet at the work." Henry and the doctor exchanged glances. "I wish, Bry- an," said the latter, "you would come home at once with me." "Oh honor bright, doctor," he replied, "you wouldn't have me to break my word to Mary's brother, and him want- ing me so much. See now, if I didn't leave the boltheen I cut after me. I must go for it." " Well, Bryan, I won't detain you any longer," said the doc-   tor, "if you promise before Mr. Henry Daly here, that when you are done at your brother-in-law's, you will copne to me." " I will, doctor. After the races, av I'm alive, I will be with you." " Very well. Good morning, Bryan." "God speed you both, gentlemen," said the peasant, tak- ing off his hat. The doctor and Henry resumed their walk towards the house, whilst Lorkin, jumping into the clump, came out on the opposite side, and crossed the park with long strides. "That man must be looked after, Henry," said Dr. Kelly. "He is just mad enough to make him dangerous. On my word, were I O'Roarke, I would not feel very easy with such a neighbor. Let me see, he will return about the race week from his brother-in-law's.  I suppose that was what he meant, when he asked you when they would take place. He is safe enough while he remains there, and I will take care not to lose sight of him after he returns.' As the two gentlemen approached the house, they were met by a servant, who told them that Mr. Daly had been in- quiring for them, and wished to see them in his study. So, without resuming their conversation, they quickened their steps and soon entered the house. CHAPTER XIX. IN WHTCH DOCTOR KELLY SHOWS HOW POSITIVE HE MAY BE AT TIMES.-THE DOCTOR AT HOME.-ROSE O'DONNELL AGAIN LEAVES DALYSTOWN. When O'Roarke left the room, Mr. Daly sunk into a seat, and, resting his elbow on the table, shaded his face with his   216      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. hand. There are times when the body is predisposed to take disease; there are times, too, when the mind, which has struggled bravely with a sea of trouble, will be prostrat. ed by the tiny wave, which scarcely leaves a ripple on the shore; and there are men whose steps to the grave are marked, not by years, but by the events those years bring forth. When Godfrey Daly again raised his head, his face, was haggard and pale, and, as he arose from his seat, he laid his hand heavily on the chair, as if he needed its sup. port. Moving with a weary step, he rang the bell, and when a servant entered he said : "Have Mr. Henry and Doctor Kelly as yet returned?" 'C No, sir.' "When they do so, tell them I wish to see them here." When ,the servant retired, Mr. Daly went over to one of the windows and gazed out upon the noble park that lay stretched before him. What intense sorrow and love filled the old man's heart, as he thus looked and thought upon his ancestral home. There were old black thorn, bushes scattered here and there through the park, which a Yankee speculator would have grubbed out while the old woman and Bob were hitching up the horses, that Mr. Daly would not'have disturbed for a whole forest of trees. As his eyes ranged over the familiar scene, he called to mind proud old family traditions, rahaging from a remote period up to the -time when he himself became the head of his house, thus linking the past with the present. "I shall not live to see a stranger here," he said. "It is -too much a part of my being, to allow me to outlive its loss. I am almost foolish enough to suppose that the old place would mourn for us, and could not look the same in other hands. Ah, here comes Henry and the doctor.-My noble boy," he added, as he turned from the window. When the two gentlemen entered Mr. Daly's study, they saw, at a glance, that something unusual had affected him. , How are you, Godfrey?" said the doctor, as he shook hands with him. ' Quite well, thank you, doctor," replied Mr. Daly. "Quite well!" said the other, "By Jove I think not; your hand is feverish. Has anything disturbed you?"   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      217 "O'Roarke has been here, father," said Henry. "What did he want ." "Either of two things, Henry. His money, or the hand of your sister, for his son, Tim." "What!" cried Henry, starting in amazement, , the pre- sumptuous scoundrel. Had I been here I would have kicked him out of the house." The doctor looked at Henry. "It is not pride, doctor, which makes me say this," cons tinued the latter. "If the son, of a poor, honest peasant asked my sister's hand, I believe I could give him a civil answer; but that the purse-proud upstart, who has raised himself, if raised you can call it, from the lowest dregs, by sycophancy, robbery, and injustice, should have such pre- sumption, is more than I can bear. What did you say to him, father?"  Mr. Daly repeated the conversation that had passed be. tween them. "You must not blame me, doctor," he concluded, for not being milder with O'Roarke, knowing myself to be so much in his power," "It made little matter, Godfrey," replied Doctor Kelly, "in what kind of language your refusal was conveyed, he would -have felt it all the same, and will watch for an op- portunity to be revenged for the humiliation it has caused him. I believe, upon my honor, it was better of the two to have done it with a high hand, it may somewhat cow the fellow. -It was unfortunate that such a whim should have got into his head; it must have been that fool, Tim, who placed it there." "If I thought it was Tim who sent his father here," said Henry, "I would bring Tom  Gallaher to Lake View, and make him horsewhip the puppy opposite his own door." "Do so, Henry," said the doctor, laughing, ' and I prom- ise to act afterwards as Tom's friend. Come, Godfrey, the fellow has cast you down too much. I wish you would get into a fine, healthy passion, like my friend Henry, here." "Doctor," replied Mr. Daly, "I am a ruined man." "What! because you would not give Emily to O'Roarke?" "No, doctor. Did O'Roarke stand alone, I might well     218      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. afford to laugh at both his impudence and malice, but when the ball is set rolling, how, many will there be to kick it down hill." "Kick, fiddlesticks, Godfrey," replied the doctor. "I beg your pardon, but I really have no patience with you. Now, this interest which is coming due; you told him, you say, that you had a notion of asking him for time for its pay. ment? That must not be thought of; we must show abold front to the enemy," continued the doctor, as he sat down at Mr. Daly's writing desk, and, taking a checkbook from his pocket, commenced to write. "What are you doing, doctor?" asked Mr. Daly. "I will tell you directly,"' he answered. "James, this must not be," said Mr. Daly. I will bor. row no more money from you. I am too much in your debt already." "Godfrey Daly," replied the old doctor, " don't bother me, don't vex me, don't insult me. You may be as proud as you like with Mr. John O'Roarke, but do not give me any of your high airs ;" and he tore a leaf from his check book with a very vexed jerk. Then, rising, he took Mr. Daly's hand, "Godfrey, my old friend," he continued, "let no such words as borrowing and lending be between us. We are both old, Godfrey, and old people must sometimes have their own way; give me mine in this, and you shall have yours the next time." '. But, James," said Mr. Daly, as he clasped the old man's hand between both his own, " this is useless, O'Roarke will foreclose his mortgage, whether the interest is paid or not." "We don't know that," replied the other. "Your pay. ing the interest will, at least, deprive him of an excuse for doing so. After telling him too, that you were about to ask him for time, this prompt payment will deceive him as to your resources, and such animals as he and his brother- in-law, Lyons, never spring until they are sure of their dis- tance. Not a word more, Godfrey; you and Emily are to dine with me .to-morrow." "Indeed, doctor, but "i But me, no buts. Emily has already promised for you. I met the gipsey down stairs, singing like a lark; with a large   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      219 bunch of keys dangling at her waist, making believe that she is a great housekeeper. I believe that I did- not ask you, Henry." "No, doctor, you did not." "Well, if Emily brings you, you may come." "I wish, James," said Mr. Daly, "'you would be satisfied with having Henry and Emily to go to you, and excuse me." "'I will not be satisfied with anything of the kind," re- plied the doctor. ', You forget, James," said Mr. Daly, ,i that it is my turn to have my- own way now." "Not to-day," answered the doctor. "Did I not except to- day? Well, I should have done so. I got up this morning, determined to have my own way for twenty-four hours ; I warned my wife and Rose of the fact before leaving home. Come you shall. Henry can ride into T  , to get that check cashed, and meet you afterwards, at dinner. So you see you will have to squire Emily. Good bye, Godfrey; be over early, we shall have a walk before dinner. As for you, Henry, if you are late, I'll put you at a side table, and give you cold meat. Comne, until I show you a new purchase I have got under my gig. A perfect beauty, or I am no judge of horse flesh. Good bye again, Godfrey." When Doctor Kelly, accompanied by Henry, left the I room, the cheerful look which the countenance of the for. mer had worn in Mr. Daly's presence, passed away, and he sighed more than once as he left the house. His gig was in waiting for him at the hall door; but, without caring to point out the' beauties of his new horse to Henry, he took the arm of the latter, and, telling his servant to drive slowly on, they followed after. "I believe, Henry," said the doctor, as they walked along, "it is unnecessary for me to renew; the subject that brought mea here to-day." "Quite so, my dear doctor," replied Henry, "at least for i the purpose of cautioning me; our sky is too wintry just inow for love to shine in it. No; no! doctor, do not fear that I shall add another sorrow to the many that are crush- ing my poor father,--killing him, doctor," lie continued, in excited, hurried words,--" yes, killing him; did you not re-   220      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. mark the expression of his face as we entered the room? of course you must have remarked it. My God! and I can do nothing to save him." "You can do much, Henry," replied Doctor Kelly. "Show me how, doctor," he asked. "Give up Rose, would you say? I would be unworthy of her love, if I could think of making her my wife under present circumstances: but, doctor, I cannot go before tht altar and falsely promise to love another, even to save my father." "God forbid I should ask you," replied Doctor Kelly, "but, come what will, your father is possessed of a bless- ing the world cannot deprive him of as long as he has hil children to love him. You, Henry, have youth, energy, in- tellect, education,--Tut, man, you must not despair! Sup. pose your father was to lose his property, it would be but one plank sinking under you. With a brave heart and sin. ewy arm, strike out, and you shall still bear him in safety to the shore."  "( Doctor," replied Henry, " for myself I fear not. I feel I have energy enough to carve out for myself a home and a future; but, you say, suppose my father was to lose his property. Ah, doctor, take this old place from him, and what can you, or I, or any man, give him in its stead? No- no, he will die Godfrey Daly of Dalystown; for he shall pass away before the old place has a new master." "Well,-well," answered the doctor, "s there is no fear of that at present. Even the first steps in that direction have not been taken as yet, and it would take many a long day to accomplish it. We must work, my boy, for I will go in harness with you. Do your duty, Henry, and leave the future to God. You need not fear, either, that Rose will spirit herself away." " Ah, doctor, I am sorry I ever confessed my love to her." "Poh, boy, your eyes confessed it long ago, and she is worthy, Henry, of any man's love. You will meet her to- morrow and tell her all you have said to me; my mind is quite easy about you two; for I never saw a pair more in love and less mad. Halloa, John! I believe the fellow in. tends that I should walk all the way home. Return, Henry, and keep the old man up. Good bye my dear boy, and God bless you. Remember to-morrow, half past five, sharp."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      221 , Doctor," said Henry, as he shook hands with the old gentleman, how shall we ever thank you?" "Well, I do not know," he replied. "I shall think about it some day that I have time, and until then do not mind doing so. Take her by the head, John, while I am getting into the gig. Your arm, Henry, I am not quite as active as I was fifty years ago. Oh! by the by, -you have not told me what you think of my new purchase." "She's just what you called her, doctor, a perfect beauty." "A little skittish, though," said the doctor, '"for a bog road, a dark night, and an old doctor. So ho, girl! jump in John,; there we are, and giving Henry a cheerful nod, away he rattled. Henry watched until the gig passed out the gateway and then retraced his steps to the house. After a little the doctor checked up the speed of his horse, and fell to musing. "Henry is right," he thought, "Godfrey Daly will never live to see Dalystown pass into other hands. The very outskirmishing of the lawyers, their d-n catlike play, would kill him. /Surely the ways of God are not the ways of men. Godfrey Daly takes a poor orphan into his house, he becomes the father of the fatherless; under his parental care she grows up good and beautiful, and he is rewarded, the scoffer would say, by his son's falling in love with the nameless, penniless girl, which circumstance may lead, in an indirect manner, to the loss of his property and his utter ruin; for no doubt but that Henry Daly could get a wealthy wife, and would do so, if his affections were disengaged. But who shall dictate when and how, to God? Blind moles that we are, shall we, who cannot see into to-morrow, sit in judgment to-day .?" The conversation which Rose O'Donnell had held with Doctor Kelly convinced her that she was right-in suppos- ing that Henry Daly's love for her militated against his own and his family's interests, even had her humble birth been no objection. She therefore resolved to fly his pres- ence forever, when an opportunity to do so should offer. She would have done so at once had not the doctor point- ed out the danger of sudden flight. There was very little danger of Henry's being late for din.   222      THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN. ner at the Grove on the following day, as he arrived early in the afternoon. No matter what resolutions a man may- form, or how strong and binding he may deem them, in the absence of her he loves, in her presence they are no stron. ger than a spider's web. As Rose listened to Henry's out- bursts of passion, and then to his pleadings, that he but ask. ed her for a sister's love, she felt how poorly he was en. deavoring to cheat himself into the belief that he would be contented with such. "And now, Rose," he said, " hear me promise." But she interrupted him. I Heniy," she said, " neither of us must make any prom- ises. If you would not have me leave you at once, make none. Remember what you owe to your father, and forget yourself and me, in your efforts to comfort hinm, then, in after life, when you think of his great love for you, you will feel no remorse at having left aught undone to repay him." '"My beloved," answered Henry. "I will do all you ask of me. You are much better and wiser than I am, Rose. Henceforth you shall be my inspiration and guide." "Better, Henry," she replied, " that duty should be your inspiration,-your own heart your guide." It was no easy matter to be unhappy in Dr. Kelly's pres- ence. The sunshine of the old man's heart was infectious, and his cheerful smile the very antidote to gloomy thoughts. But to-day, in his own house, at Iis own table, with his old friend, Godfrey Daly, sitting beside him, he was a very wizard. He waved his wand, and care fled his presence. Before the cloth was removed, Rose, Emily, and Henry were laughing merrily. As the old gentlemen took wine with each other, they threw a heartiness into the manner of doing so, that left altogether in the shade the usual cold, formnal manner. Their glasses raised and touching, their hands elapsed together, they looked at one another with glistening eyes. "' Your health, Godfrey, my boy," said the doctor, this is not the first glass of wine we have had together, nor will it be our last." "I hope not," replied Mr. Daly, "your hlealth James. Health and happiness to you and your's."   TE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      223 "The same to you, Godfrey," returned the doctor, and thereupon the old gentlemen drank off their wine, smacked their lips, and nodded very pleasantly to one another. When the ladies retired to the drawing room, and Henry had stolen away to join them, the old gentlemen drew their chairs nearer to the fire. Then the doctor commenced re minding his guest of many a scene in their early lives. With admirable tact he managed to light upon none that- had not pleasant associations, and as Emily and Henry sat in the drawing room, their father's laughter reached them, filling them with happiness. "How well my father looks this evening, Emily," whis- pered Henry to his sister, as Mr. Daly and Dr. Kelly entered the room. "'Yes, Henry," she replied, " but it is all owing to that dear doctor who has made him so happy- who malkes every one happy," and, going up to the doctor, she gave his cheek the gentlest little kiss imaginable, at which he seemed ter- ribly shocked, giving Mrs. Kelly a very frightened look; but the old lady laughingly told him that Emily and Rose were privileged, whereupon he became re-assured and sat down with one of the girde on each side. How pleasantly this evening passed with 'Amic, conversation, and inno. cent laughter. 'I am loth to leave such a scene,-loth to leave this good old man, whose ;outh seemed perpetuated, and harmoniously blended with his riper years,- whose wisdom scorned not even folly, when it Won from the care- worn heart a passing smile. But the little world I have be- co0le associated with, like the greater one, moves on, and I m must follow, if I would record its incidents. Rose O'Donnell had spent but four days at the Grove, when she received a letter from Mr. Kirwin, her aunt's husband, seating that his wife was very ill, and begged of Rose to go to her. Rose showed the letter to Doctor Kelly. "What will you do i" he asked. "Go, of course," she replied. "My aunt has been most kind to me, and though I regret that her illness should give me so good an excuse for leaving, yet I but waited for one, to do so." "I believe you are right, Rose," replied the doctor. ' If   224      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. your aunt has been kind to you, it is your duty to go to her now that she is ill; but, Rose, when the spring brings back all. your sister flowers, you will return to us. Remember, my child, that this is your home whenever you wish to make it so. When do you propose to leave?" "Oh, I must not lose an hour," she answered. "You cannot leave," he said, "without going to Dalys. town. I will drive you over there to-day, and you can take the Dublin coach in the morning. You see what a hurry I am in to get rid of you, but the sooner you are with your aunt the better." "And you will often write to us, Rose," said Mrs. Kelly, will you not'" "Indeed I will, Mrs. Kelly," she replied. "I am almost sorry you came to us at all," continued the old lady, " here have I been laying out all kinds of plans to have you to myself during the winter, and now they are all blown away. But, Rose, love, you have not answered the doctor about returning to us." "When I do return, Mrs. Kelly," she replied, "I will come to the Grove." "That is my own good girl," said the old lady, without remarking that Rose had not said when that return might be. This did not escape the doctor's notice; but he felt that after what he himself had told Rose, he would not be justified in pressing her on the subject. But, would a vague promise satisfy Henry? Would she, have strength, after all, to refuse him any other? As she put to herself these questions, she dreaded her parting in. terview with him, but, most fortunately, she was spared the pain of one. On arriving at Dalystown, she found that Henry had gone to the county Mayo, where some of Mr. Daly's property was situated, and was not expected home for two days. So taking an affectionate leave of the good doctor, who had accompanied her to Dalystown, she re- mained there for that day, determined to leave for Dublin, on the following morning, from whence-she would take pas. sage to England. Emily was much grieved at Rose's departure, and both  the former and Mr. Daly did all they could to make her   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      22 promise to return the moment her aunt's health permitted her to do so; But Rose avoided, as best she could, making any promise on thee subject. "My God, I thank thee," she mentally said, as the coach which was to bear her to Dublin moved off. My Father, I thank thee for the strength thou hast given to me. It is over. Beautiful Dalystown and happiness, farewell for- ever!" CHAPTER XXo TiE RACE-THE AVEGEiR. The day on which the Galway Hunt race was to come off had'arrived. Heretofore it generally tool place in Octo- ber; but, for some reason, had been postponed this year Very probable was it that the sheriff had an unusual num- ber of executions against the fox hunters of the county, for this race 'vas exclusively confined to horses, the bonafjds - property ofn membersofthe Galway Hunt Club. To be sure. if you believed tailors and other contemptible tradespeople  you would suppose that if every one had bona de their own their would not be a tail, much lessa horse, to go to the post.                   g All the world, and the world's mother, (not Eve, but another old lady, of shadowy existence supposedtopatron- ise fun in Ireland,) were going to Knokbarron race-course. i First, early in the morning, before the roads became crowd- ed, the horses that were entered for the race and had not stables on the course, were led out by their trainers or grooms, each horse accompanied by a small crowd of admir-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ers and well-wishers, stable boys, hangers-on and tenant's sons. In some instances they were accompanied on horse. back by the jockeys, who were to ride. Itis scarcely doing justice to the lofty positions these gentlemen held, to say that they shared, equally with the horses, the admiration of the crowd. Although, for the most part, miserable little abortions, literally wasted away, from the constant habit of wasting down (as it is termed) to enable them to ride at certain weights, they were, on this morning, full-grown lions. When a professional Jock was too light he padded his sad- dle with lead, or had recourse to some other happy expe- dient. When too heavy, he loaded himself with clothes, horse-rugs, blankets, and got himself buried up to the chin  in a heap of stable manure, where he quietly lay, contem- plating human nature, viz: the stable door, until his body had been reduced to the proper weight. Well, jockeys are not the only persons who fit themselves for high places by sweltering in filth. High enough they were now, basking in the full blaze of popularity! It was amusing to watch the healthy, athletic young country fellows crowding around them, listening to every word that fell from them, their eyes fixed with admiration upon their little shriveled faces, or nudging each other, and pointing to-not in derision but with profound respect-the little spindle legs, encased in top boots, which any of those young fellows could have smashed across his arm. Nor were these stunted creatures (who never had an idea unconnected with a horse,) uncon- scious of their position; like other lions, they were taci- turn and reserved. When they condescended to answer at all, they did so snappishly; but when spoken to by one of the initiated, (who generally made his appearance dress- ed in a cut-off green coat, soiled doeskin breeches, muddy top boots, crumpled shirt, jerry hat and red nose,) the lil- liputian so addressed would shut his eye in such a fright- ful knowing manner, that the rustics fell back aghast, be- lieving that thereby was conveyed an incredible amount of hidden information on the engrossing topic of the day. Now in all this the poor little jockey lions resembled much bigger lions, while their claim to lionism was far more ten- able than it is in many instances that I wot of; for, indu-   bitably, they were "the right men in the right place"- jockeys on their way to the race course of Knockbarron, on the day that the Galway Hunt race was to come off over that celebrated race course. Amongst them was a gentleman's groom who was to ride his master's horse; but he was no- body. Many circumstances militated against him; he had the usual proportions of a man, was at home, and entirely too free with pedestrians. Many a voice, indeed, roared out as he passed; more power Lacky, but this very famil- iarity squashed him. How could a man be a lion, and call- ed Lacky ? Ten o'clock, eleven o'clock arrived, and the road leading; to the race-course, became densely crowded with all man- ner of people, in all manner, shapes, and modes of convey- ance, and with no conveyance at all, save that very durable animal, known in Ireland as " shank's mare.' I verily believe had Noah's ark stood that morning in the; yard of Gill's hotel, it would have been set on wheels anci pressed into service. There were gentlemen on horseback and in well appoint- ed tandems, ladies in handsome carriages, from the coach and four to the light pony phaeton; men, women and children, in all kinds of cars, jingles, gigs, and carts. There, were tinkers on donkeys and cripples in wheelbarrows, dashing and splashing, smashing and spilling, screeching and laughing, on their way to the course. The fields, too, on every side, were crowded with horsemen, pedestrians and dogs, making for the same point. A fair sprinkling of the pigs that lived in the neighborhood had arrived on the course at an early hour; for the pigs themselves attend races in Ireland, for the pure devilment of running betweenr the horses' legs and upsetting them and their riders, to make the girls laugh. " And its no admiration in life, that they should do so," remarked Mr. James Carty, the parish schoolmaster, who had his classic Roman nose flattened on his face on this- very course, by a playful grunter getting between the legs of his grey pony, " no admiration, seeing that we read in the scriptures that the devil's in the pigs." Perhaps it would have been more correct had I said that    228      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. pigs attended races in Ireland at the time I write of; no doubt the persecution they have 'been subject to since then, at the hands of the police, (compelling them not to show a snout on the roads, under pain of fine, and imprisonment in the parish pound,) has done much to break down the vivacity of their nature. I fear much, they are now a degenerate race of pigs, without as much as a solitary curl in their tails. Well, well, the pigs are not the only animals in Ireland that have lost spirit of late years; and how could it be expected that they would keep their tails curled; with bayonets everlastingly stuck within two inches of their hind quarters? Poor, tame pigs! when will you turn and gore your driv- ers with your tusks 2 At the different gaps, or entrances to the course, men, with white bands round their hats, were stationed, their duty being to keep the different vehicles from crowding the gaps, and to collect the various small sums charged for en- trance to the course. "Stand back there ;" "come on here," was incessantly shouted. "What are you doing there, Mick Hurrigan, with that girrawn* of yours? Look at him, bad cess to me but he'll smather the shins av them ladies on the outside car. Make way there, boys, for Mr. Darcy's coach. Five shillings, your honor. Too much, your honor? Faith, then, af your honor gives me the coach and horses, rIll pay ten for them, with all the vanes of my heart." Then, as the gentleman's car- riage passed in: i"By dad, I believe all the broken meat that goes astray in your kitchen, isn't much to talk about." a Way, there, for the dacent man, Tom Dwyer. How's yourself Mister Dwyer?"This salutation was given to a jolly-looking farmer, who appeared, driving an, unpretend- ing flat car, on which was placed a feather bed, to ' soften the boords" as Mr. Dwyer said, covered with a home-made quilt, and in the middle of the bed sat Mrs. Dwyer, appear- ing, from' the hollow she had made in it, to have got very near the boards, despite her husband's precaution. - "And how's the woman that own's you? Och, what need I ax; * A bad horse.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      229 there she is, soncy and well. How are you, Mrs. Dwyer, ma'am . " '"Very well, thank you, James. Amn't I the foolishest woman. in the world to be out here, instid of minding my business at home?" "' The dickens a one of you are. Why shouldn't you take your divarsion, as well as the best of them? Tom Dwyer, ma'am, is a warmf man, and deserves to be so; a poor body never went hungry from his door yet." And amidst a buzz of assent, honest Tom Dwyer and his good-humored wife, blushing from the well-deserved praise they had just re- ceived, passed forward. "Way, there,-way there, will ye's ; out of the way there, every mother's sowl of you; here comes Mr. Henry Daly!" "Long life to your father's son." "More power, old stock!" a"There's a chip of the old block for you. Hurra!" "By the hole of my coat, here comes Mr. Burke and the ladies." "Ay, kitch him missing the race." Mr. Burke was a wealthy shopkeeper in the town of T--, and a sporting character likewise. He always kept a good horse, turned out in natty style at the hunts in the neighbor- hood, boasted that he had good blood in his veins, had sub- scribed twenty pounds to the race funds, was a general favorite with rich and poor, and every gentleman on the course was more or less in his books. He occupied the driver's seat of his well appointed outside car,-his horse being young and skittish, he did not wish to entrust a ser- vant with its management. On one side of the car sat Mrs. Burke, in the full blow of silk and satin; on the opposite side, the Misses Burke, pretty young girls, tastefully and fashionably dressed. "Half a crown, Mr. Burke, if you please." "Boys,"- said Anthony O'Kelly, riding up, (O'Kelly being one of the stewards of the race, wore, on this occasion, a scarlet hunting coat,) "Mr. Burke is free; he gave twenty pounds towards the race funds." "More power to him," said one of the men. "Well, boys," said, Mr. Burke, " here is the half crown to get you a drink." f In good circumstances.   230      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "More power to your big fist. Asy, sir, I'll take the mare s head." ' How do you do, Mr. O'Kelly?" said Burke.    I "Quite well, I thank you, Burke," replied Anthony. ('How do you do, Mrs. Burke? I am glad to see you here. That's right, bringing the girls to see the fun. Mary Jane, how are you, pretty as usual. All, Sophia, you little rogue, you must back Ribbonman, (O'Kelly's horse). Well, if I had that ribbon that has got loose round your neck to put in his headstall, he would be sure to win." "Give it to him, Sophia Louisa," said her mother, " give it to Mr. O'Kelly. There's not a ribbon in our bonnets, Mr. O'Kelly, that we would not give to see your horse win." "And the bonnets too, Mary," said Mr. Burke. "I know that," replied O'Kelly. 'Thank you, Sophia. But, by Jove, he shan't have it; no horse shall be so hon- ored, I'll wear my lady's favors myself." And O'Kelly gal- lantly tied the ribbon round one of the buttons of his coat. "Go along with you, you madcap," said the pleased moth- er, while Mary Jane tittered, and Sophia Louisa blushed. "'How's Ribbonman, sir?" asked Mr. Burke. "He has come out well," replied O'Kelly, " will you not go see him before the start? You will find him near the first wall." "I can't stir from the mare," replied Burke, " she never was in a crowd before."' "Where is your servant?" "I wouldn't trust any man with her, sir, but myself. I am sorry now, Mary, that I did not take your advise, and bring the steady horse; well, sooner or later, I would have to break her in. Who is to ride for you, Mr. O'Kelly?" "That is a secret, Burke." "I bet you I know: Whisper." "You are right. How did you find it out?" "Oh, that is a secret too." "Well, keep dark for another hour; my book is not quite made up as yet." '"Oh, you need not fear me, I have backed Ribbonman pretty heavily myself." 4"You are a trump, Burke. By Jove he must win; all the good fellows are backing him."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      231 And waving his hand to the ladies, O'Kelly set spurs to his horse and galloped off, while Mr. Burke drove towards the stand, which was situated close to the winning post, I and where a number of carriages and cars had already pre. ceded him. Very contradictory were the directions and instructions which Mr. Burke received, as he drove along, touching the best stand to select to see and be seen, and mentally did he deplore his folly in not having selected his steady, trained horse, to draw his family to the course. "It was the girls persuaded me," thought Mr. Burke. "Well, it is better than to see them manceuvering to get rid of me." "Papa," said Mary Jane, " get as near the stand as you can." "Oh, papa," said Sophia Louisa, " there is a good place, just behind Mr. Cheever's carriage." There were a good many young gentlemen there too, but I suppose Sophia did not. remark them. "For the love of God, Pat," exclaimed Mrs. Burke, " keep out of the crowd. Oh! gracious I the mare is beginning to jump already." "By all that's lovely, Mary, and that's yourself," ex- claimed Mr. Burke, " you and the girls will make me like the man who thought to please everybody and pleased no- body. Oh, here is Mike," he continued, as his servant came up to the car. "Take her by the head, Mike, and lead her just behind that carriage." As the day advanced the course became crowded, and the scene most lively and picturesque. The weather was unusually fine for the time of year, and many of the ladies present got out of their close carriages and took seats on the boxes and rumbles of the latter. For some distance adjoining the winning post, the race track was, roped off, to keep it clear for the running horses; outside these ropes carriages, cars, gigs, horsemen and pedestrians were ranged ! along in solid masses, the latter made up of the peasantry; the men dressed in dark frieze, the women wearing red shawls, white caps and gay ribbons. Of course the girls  i were not quiet, but kept continually getting in and out uno    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. der the ropes, crossing and recrossing the track, as they recognized acquaintances on the opposite side, or changed their position to have a better view of the course. The tents, -from which already there issued the tones of bagpipe and fiddle-were grouped together some distance behind the stand, and had their various signs, floating on flags, before their entrances. Here was " The Cat and Nog- gin," and Patrick Curly, from Ballinasloe, "The Wren's Nest," and Luke Rafferty, from Loughrea. Mary Brady, from Nogginstown,with her old sign, "Pass if you can," which a poet, whose name has not come down to us, inspired by the muses and whiskey punch, immortalized by the verses that now flaunted in the presence of less favored signs: "Pass East, pass West, But, if ye's pass this, ye's pass the best. Stop in, my hearty, and take your rest." But Mrs. Brady had things far more substantial than poet. ry to invite customers. A table, on which were ranged bot- ties, glasses, jugs, &c. &c., stood at the entrance to her tent, and on the side opposite to the table, was a blazing fire, over which hung a kettle and a huge plethoric pot, and as Mister McCan, the best piper in the five parishes, struck up the "Rocky Road" and the " Priest in his Boots," "the lid of the pot," Mrs. Brady said, "danced up and down, keep. ing time to the music in the most wonderful manner, glory be to God." Mary Bradystood at the tent door. She was a fat, good. humored looking woman, whose pleasant smile could change betimes into a very cloudy, dangerous look. She wore a blue cloth cloak, and a " rale Leghorn bonnet." In. the presence of the little ducks of bonnets of the pres- ent day, I feel a delicacy in mentioning the actual size of that bonnet;-its age, or the age of the lady, I indignantly refuse to disclose. There was a little manikin running in and out of the tent, attending to customers and Mrs. Brady's orders, who was generally supposed to be her lawful husband; at best though, he but ranked as prince consort, Mary Brady being, by right of descent and strength of will, the reigning sovereign of the "Pass-if-you-can."               -    r In remote parts of the course, away from the great crowd, the horses to contend were walked about, and followed by small crowds. Horsemen in single files and in troops, were galloping in all directions over the course, examining the horses, the ground and the fences to be jumped of the latter. there were two rivers, seventeen feet wide, two double ditches, about the height of respectable hay stacks, and six double- breasted stone walls, five feet high each; the race, the best of heats; distance, two miles. All this could be ascer- tained by paying sixpence for a race card, to one of the ragged fellows bawling out "the color of the rider, and the rider's name, the weight he carries and the age he rides, with heats, stakes and sweepstakes, segar and light, segar and light." The monotony of these calls was enlivened by the sweet strains of several ballad singers, amongst whom was a lady who sang in plaintive tones, "Jim Reilly's Farewell," in which' the said Jim, in rather too facetious a manner for a gentleman in his position, invited all his late jovial come panions to go see him " dance upon nothing." Indeed, taken altogether, the style of the "farewell" showed that the late Mr. Reilly must have been of an uncertain and volatile disposition, the concluding lines being: "Let all ye's take warning by my downfall- The curse of Moses on ye's all." Half-past twelve, tra-la-la-trala, the: first bugle, the horses going to be saddled, everything and everybody in motion, the tents deserted, vehicles scattered about the course, driven rapidly to the neighborhood of the winning-post, horsemen galloping in every direction, amongst whom might be distinguished the jockeys, by their handsome silk jackets and caps. "There go O'Kelly and Daly, down to Ribbonman; but who is to ride for O'Kelly?" "No one knows, I suspect he will have to ride himself." " Nonsense, he is much too heavy; besides, do you think O'Kelly would ride among hired jocks  The thing should have been confined to gentlemen riders; if it had, I would have ridden for Brown."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "You I what an escape Brown had: but come along, see they are stripping Ribbonman." And half a dozen gentlemen, amongst whom were the speakers, galloped off in the direction that O'Kelly and Daly had taken. A number of persons had collected round Ribbonman as he stood pawing the ground, while the groom tightened the girths of his racing saddle. He was a handsome dark bay, of about sixteen hands high, of fine proportions, both for speed and strength. His chest was broad and deep; his shoulder high and receding, his neck long and slightly dip. ped, where it joined the shoulder, his legs well under him, and unusually strong for a horse that had scarcely a stain in his blood, his head small, with a full rolling eye, and his nose long, with wide red nostrils. He was the favorite, but for the last hour or so, there was a rumor flying about that O'Kelly had no rider, and some of the men who had backed the horse now hedged, and laid their money on Mr. Brown's " Maid of the Mill ;" a very beautiful animal, rather light of limb though, for Galway walls, but of finely developed mus- cle, that promised to make up for spindle-shanks. When her body-clothes were removed, she looked the very picture of symmetry-her every motion was grace, and as she walked the arteries and veins stood out along her polished coat. The riders now mounted their horses, and took short pre- parative canters, before going to the starting point, but as yet Ribbonman's rider did not make his appearance. "How is this, O'Kelly," said a gentleman riding up, I have backed Ribbonman heavily, and I am now told you have no rider for him." "Did you hedge, Darcy, when you heard so?" asked O'Kelly. " No, I have too much faith in your pluck, O'Kelly. I know if you cannot get a rider, you will get into the pig- skin yourself." " Me ? Oh that would not do; I am too heavy, but Ribbon- man shall have a rider. Look there, old boy, and thank your stars for having faith." As O'Kelly spoke, he pointed to a person crossing the   course, and coming toward them. He was coming too fast to be oa his own legs, yet at the distance from which he was first seein, it was difficult to say how he was borne along, or who he was, but as he drew near, he was recognized, and hailed with shouts, of " Tom Tinker, Tom Tinker," " Where the devil did he come from, I thought he was in England ?" "By Jove, O'Kelly, you are in luck. What luck I had, not to hedge !" Amid all which, and sundry other ejaculations, ayoung man, mounted on a pony, rode up to the crowd that surrounded Ribbonman. Yes! a pony: one could know that now, by observing the lower part of four little legs, the tops of two little ears and the most contemptible little tail that ever terminated a pony,-il might have been a waggish tail, but that there was nothing left of it to wag. These were all that were visible of the animal; for a top coat completely enveloped its body to the neck, which was alsohidden by a racing saddle that the rider carried before him. "Allow me to introduce the latter to you: Mr. John Rut- ledge, alias 'Tom Tinker."' (How he got this soubriquet I cannot say, no more, than how my friend, the Honorable Colonel Botherall. got his title,) was a young man of about three and thirty, handsome, well proportioned and of an intelligent open countenance. He was of a very respect- able family, and might have been, if he had so willed it, an educated gentleman. But from his tenderest years, Jack Rutledge had evinced the strongest antipathy to books, and a love for horses. Indeed in infancy he had been missing for the greater part of a day, and was at length discovered calmly reposing between the legs of a vicious brute that had acquired, from his biting propensities, the cognomen of "the man-eater," the sporting babe having crawled on his hands and knees across the yard, and into the maneater's sta- ble. Before he was well out of petticoats, he rode nearly to death every horse that chanced to be brought to his father's place. When hewas about eight years of age his parents got a private tutor for their son, but Jack had procured one for himself, long before this time, namely, a dog-teacher in the neighborhood, who showed him how to worm dogs, set snares, enter ferrets, &c., &c.   236      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWNo Anxious consultations were now held by Jack and his tutor to get rid of the one provided for him. "Did you put the powder in his pipe, Master Jacky?"' "Yes, and nearly got the ears pulled out of my head." ' And the backy in his tay?" questioned Jack's tutor. "Oh! he found it out before he took half a sup. Oh! Peter what will I do if we can't get rid of him'?" "Never fear, Master Jacky, we'll make him boult yet, like a rabbit,-stop, by gorres, I have it; we'll try him with the ferrets." "How, Peter!" "In his bed, of coorse." Acting on this advice, Jack entered the ferrets, and the enemy bolted. He was succeeded by several others, whose stay varied from one week to twelve hours. At length strong measures were adopted, and a pedagogue was procured, who promised that if he could not get knowledge into Jack at one end in a legitimate manner, he would flog it into him at the other. But Jack was equal to the emergency; after the first four hours' tuition, the pedagogue, rather heated, went out for a walk, Jack, rather sore, followed after. He watched his new tutor until he saw him pass into a distant field, then hasten- ing to where a wicked bull was kept in an enclosed pad: dock, Jack smashed the lock of the gate, and drove the animal out, leaving him in a field that he judged the tutor would pass through on his return,-no animal on four legs was ever known to hurt Jack. In about half an hour after- wards the herdsman, passing through the field, discovered the luckless pedagogue lying senseless and bleeding. He carried him to the house, from whence, after much suffering, he was enabled to take his departure in about two months. The matter was never proved clearly home against Jack, but it was generally supposed that Mosy did not take up a stone, break the lock, and let himself out, without any assist- ance. After this no one could be got daring enough to go on the forlorn hope of becoming private tutor to Jack, so it was determined to send him to a public school. Having got all things ready, his father accompanied him to the school,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,      237 which was a good distance off, and Jack and the old gentle- man returned home about the same time. He was flogged and sent back in charge of a servant, but this time Jack actually got back, before his conductor, who had made some delay on the road; Jack made none. From this out, all attempts to teach Jack were abandoned, so he taught him- self, and in time became one of the most finished gentlemen jocks that Galway had ever produced. Mr. John Rutledge, known in the sporting world as "Tom Tinker," threw his leg over his pony's neck, and standing on his feet, saluted his friends. i"How is the ground, O'Kelly 2" he asked. "In fine order," replied Anthony. "And the hollow?" "Deep enough to drown a bailiff."  '.That's right, we shall have some wet jackets there." Then turning to the groom, Mr. Rutledge continued, " take the saddle off Ribbonman, and put my own on."' "Any occasion to weigh, Rutledge?" asked O'Kelly. "None," he replied, "I am two pounds over, but that can- not be helped." By the time the horse was saddled, Rutledge was prepar- ed to mount. So, without further delay, he placed his hand upon the pommel of the saddle and vaulted lightly on Rib. bonman. When it became known that "Tom Tinker" was on the course, and going to ride, there was a rush from all sides to see him mount,-and he was worth looking at, his well- shaped legs, encased in natty top boots, his agile figure set off to great advantage, by his well-fitting racing jacket, whilst a blue velvet racing cap added to the youthful look ofshis fair, handsome features. As he raised in his stirrups, and bent a little forward, Ribbonman gave a mad, wild bound; but his rider seemed, as it were, to become a part of the animal he rode, for while every nerve was strained to keep within bounds the mad impatience of the horse, one could not detect a single motion of the body; not a muscle quiv. j ered, not a leg or arm shook; "Tom Tinker" grew out of his i horse.                           i When the second bugle sounded, calling them to the post,  l   238      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Ribbonman took his place with the others. Eleven alto. gether to start, and all crack horses. Out of the way there spooney! The starting post was but a short distance from the winning post, and in a straight line with it; the first jump, a wall, being between them. This was also the last jump, the horses p'assing the winning post twice, so that the distance between the starting and winning posts was the run home; and as it afforded a view of the start, the first leap and the finish, it will be readily supposed that it was by far the most crowded part of the course. "Course, course, course!"--'The horses are going to start; and on galloped two or three stewards, dressed in their scar. let coats, cracking their whips and clearing the course be. fore them. Cars, jingles, and gigs were hurried to the right side of the ropes ;,-women, pigs and dogs ran in every one's way. People stood up on the seats of vehicles, and tops of car. riages to get a view. Poor Mr. Burke, with a carriage right before him, intercepting all view, had to stand at his horse's head, while Mary Jane and Sophia Louisa, despite all mater. nal warnings, stood upon the seat of the car, with their arms round each other's waist, and if the horse stirred so much as an ear, they gave the prettiest little screams imaginable, which had the effect of drawing the attention of some offi- cers in the break hard by, whereupon an extemporary tel. egraph was established which gave much satisfaction to the spectators interested in its success. At this moment who should unluckily come do'wn the course, but honest Farmer Dwyer, driving his flat car, with its feather bed and quilt, and big Mrs. Dwyer, bumping up and down in the middle; for her husband was hurrying off the track, where he had no right to be. To do this, he was obliged to pass down by the ropes, until he came to where they ter. minated, and then he could wheel off. Mr. Burke's car was close to the ropes, and as Mrs. Dwyer passed, she recognized her friends. "Stop, Tom," she exclaimed.  ' Stop, asthore. May I never sin, but there is Mrs. Burke in her beautiful new car." Then, at the top of her voice, she bawled out, as she bumped up and down, for her husband was in too great a hurry to stop:   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      239 Nt How are you, Mrs. Burke. ma'am .?-how are you, girls? So there you are ma'am, as big a fool as myself. Och, Tom, look where you're driving to. Oh thin, Mrs. Burke, amn't I the misfortunest fool of the world, instead of-stop-och, Tom, your'e dishocating me! And don't the girls look beau- tiful in their new bonnets? Mary Jane when will you come over 8 Sophy your hen's clucking and I'm going to set un- der her-Tom, you're over a big stone,--a dozen eggs." Mrs. Dwyer, as I have said, bawled all this out at the top of her voice, amid shouts of laughter from those in the neighborhood of Mr. Burke's car, who perceived how mala. propos was the poor woman's friendly recognition, while the officers in the break commenced to give various imita. tions of hens cackling and cocks crowing. Mrs. Burke would just as soon Mrs. Dwyer had remained at home, but as for Mary Jane and Sophia Louisa, they sat down on the seat they had been standing on a moment be. fore, in all their pride and glory, their faces crimson with shame and vexation. "The nasty fat brute," said Mary Jane, " to go make such a show of us." "I will never speak to her again," said Sophy. "What's the matter with the girls? said Mr. Burke. "I believe, Pat, they are annoyed by the way that woman addressed us,?' replied Mrs. Burke. "That woman," repeated Mr. Burke, ' by all that's lovely, Mary, but I believe you are getting as foolish as themselves. That woman, as you call her, is wife to an honest, decent man, and a good customer of ours. By all that's lovely, I wish some people who hold their heads very high, were as clear in my books as Tom Dwyer. Let me see no more of this; we are not strangers here,--every one knows who we are and what we are; but if you want to pretend to be something better, you must not be vexed when your fool- ish pride gets a tumble down." But stop your parental lecture, Mr. Burke, and take your horse by the head, for the horses are just going to start. "Course, course, course." "The crowd press against the ropes, and strain out their necks, watching the start. Every one is speaking. The   240      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. horses are wheeling round; they are all together now. Stop, they're off,-no; a false start-they wheel round again-all together-away-they're off--off-off-hurra. Here they come,--yes, here they come, by thunder, powdering to the wall, Ribbonman leading about a length, his head turned slightly to one side, as Tom Tinker holds him in, the rest in a cluster. A sheet could cover them. When within three lengths of the wall, Tom Tinker turns Ribbonman's head, and puts him at it. Hurra! over, by Nimrod, without a touch. Stop-over-over-over--all over. Beautiful,here they come by Jupiter;-- course, course, course." Yes, here they come, shaking the ground under them, their mouths open, as they strain on the bit, their red nostrils 'expanded. Fresh, fiery and glowing, they flash by the stand. Soon they are lost to sight, down in the hollow, where there is a wide drain to be jumped. How intense the excitement until they reappear. Here they come, one, two, thrfee,four, five, six, seven,-four have been left in the drain. The Maid of the Mtill has taken uptahe running. Skyscraper, (another favorite,) second, Ribbonman third, but well held in. Tom Tinker is making a waiting race--, knowing Tom.  Now they came to the third fence,-a double ditch. Rake her at it! A balk. The Maid of the Mill has balked; Skyscraper follows suit! Way there for Ribbonman. Gallantly over, hurrah! The Maid of the Mill is turned short and clears the fence. She is soon up to Ribbonman, and again takes up the running, the other horses well up, except Skyscraper, who remains balking. In this order they disappear behind a hill and will nothe again in sight until they come to the turn of the run home. During the moments the horses take to reach this point, the excited crowd is busy speaking of what, has been al- readyseen of the race andjlaying bets on the result. Now those who had taken their stations at distant leaps, are seen galloping across the course, in order to meet the horses at the run home; this gives notice to those at the winning post. People get under the ropes and crowd the race-track, watching the turn. Hiere they come, Ribbonman and the Maid of the Mill, neck and neck, the rest well up. Beauti- ful!-go it cripples!-course, course. The crowd fly back,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      241 the horses are within fifty paces of the wall, the two first still neck and neck. Press her, Tom. Both rise together, both over;-no, the mare is down!--no, well recovered, by Nimrod. But she has lost a length; whip and spur bring her head up to Ribbonman's saddle-skirt, but there she re- mains; Tom Tinker's head slightly turned as he watches her, his hands down on his horse's withers, his seat as im. movable as when he started. They are within six lengths of the winning post. The Maid of the Mill's rider buries his spurs in the mare's side, at the  same time giving her a frightful cut with the whip. She bounds madly forward, but there have been .two lengths lying idle in Tom Tinker's wrist; with a movement of hand and body, quick as the lightning's flash, he raises his horse and lands him, one length ahead, inside the winning post. Hurrah! Hurrah!!  Hurrah!!! In a moment the other horses have passed likewise, and then follows a crowd of horsemen, amongst whom are the poor jockeys who got into the drain. They have been mak- ing great efforts to save distance, but are prevented from doing so, by the horsemen who crowded in upon the race- track. It is useless to call out, "course-course. Like other great men, who fall in life's race, they are rudely hus- tled by the motley crowd which, half an hour before, gaped at them with admiration. When the first heat was over and the riders weighed, the. ground round the stand and winning post became deserted, unless by the carriages from which the horses had been previously taken. Gentlemen hurried to the different mar- - quees, to get refreshments, or cantered about the course. It so happened that as O'Kelly and Henry Daly were going to where Ribbonman was being made up, they en- countered a group of gentlemen, amongst whom was Mr.    ! Brown. This was the first time for Henry to meet with him, since their duel, and the young man's heart sickened, as he look- i ed upon his late opponent's amputated arm. As both parties reined up, Henry did not well know how to act, but Brown gave him no time for consideration; he came forward, and 16 1'1J   242      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. throwing the reins on his well trained cob horse, extend. ed his left hand, saying, as he did so, "How are you, Daly; you have no objection, I hope, to shake hands with me."' Henry grasped his hand, and would, at that moment, have given his own to restore the one he had deprived him of. "I have no ill will toward you, Daly," continued Mr. Brown, "I believe you only acted as you should. I have no one to blame but myself; I was older than you, and should have had more sense, and I like you for your pluck. We are friends, I hope? "How can you doubt it; I am but too glad to have it so," replied Henry, warmly pressing the hand which he still held. There are two things which the Irish peasantry love, even in an enemy, courage and chivalrous courtesy; and no people are more capable of recognizing the latter. An Irish crowd, too, is always on the lookout for something amusing or interesting. Before Brown and Henry had ex- changed two words, a number of people had collected around them, and when Henry had ceased to speak, hats and caps were thrown in the air. "High for Daly," shouted the crowd. "Ay, boys, and high for Brown, too, he's a gentleman, and soldier every inch of him." Henry smiled and touched his hat, but the very sound of their voices was poison to Brown. He might have addressed to them the words of Coriola- 1nuS, You common cry of curs, Wlhose breath I hate. His good humor completely forsook him, a dark scowl of hate passed over his face, and raising his hat, he bowed coldly to Daly and Kelly, and rode on. "Poor Brown," said Henry, looking after him. "By Jove, boys," said Anthony, addressing the crowd, "the sight of you, is to Brown, what water is to a mad dog, you make him foam at the mouth." "He to the dickens," answered the crowd. "High for Daly, high for O'Kelly, hurrah!" Oh, sweet-tongued multitude, you are the same since the days of the banished Roman I     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       243' There was an hour between the first and second heats, which each person and party passed according to their resources and inclinations. Mr. Burke winked to some friends, and retired with them and his family to the shady side of a fence, and then and there commenced anslaught on cold fowls, ham, wine, &c., &c., all of which he had brought in the well of his car. Many of his class went and did likewise, but the aristo- cratic portion of the spectators had no notion of taking thal trouble to look out for private places; they cared not how many of the unwashed looked upon them feeding. Bask- ets were taken from under the rumbles of carriage; ladies took the wings of chickens in their delicate fingers, and gentlemen, acting as waiters, shot the corks out of cham- pagne bottles. Both O'Roarke and his son were on the course. After the first heat the former betook himself, with a few congenial spirits, to a tent where they drank deep. But Tim could not think of eating or drinking while such an opportunity offered for showing off his handsome figure. Although the. day was cold enough for persons not taking violent exer- cise to wear overcoats, Tim's dress was light enough for the- dog-days, he had on ligh lavender trousers, white vest, and light blue coat, thrown back to show the white vest and frilled shirt, to the best advantage. He wore his hat " on, three hairs," as it is termed, with his red locks, through which he was continually running his fingers, sticking out on eachl *side. With a supercilious smile on his face, and a fancy kid glove dangling from his mouth, he ogled the ladies in the different carriages as he passed' along. Had Emily been there, she must, of necessity, have flown home, and, on bend- ed knee, implored her father to bestow her on Tim. So. thought Tim, himself, but- ",Wvad some power the giftie gie us, To see ourselves, as others see us." In truth, Tim was at that moment about as miserable' looking a scarecrow as one would care to look at,--a mar- tyr to his prized gentility, shivering with cold, his teeth   244      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. chattering, so as nearly to prevent his playing fetch and carry with his glove, and his face blue with cold. "' Who the devil is that?'l asked a gentleman of a friend. "That thing there," replied the friend, "how should I know? I would guess him, though, to be an unprincipled servant out of place, who ran away with the clothes his master gave him to brush, last summer." "Is it who he is, your honor?.' said an old cripple who was hobbling about on crutches, soliciting alms. ' He's young O'Roarke, your honor, son to ould O'Roarke, your honor, and him's the biggest fool, your honor, we have in these parts. Long life to your honor, and throw the poor cripple one lit- tle sixpence." The gentleman threw a piece of money into his hat, where- upon he-set off, and in a few long springs, came up with Tim. ' Long life to your lordship," he whined out, " and who knows but that your lordship's honor would throw a shilling or half a crown herself to a poor cripple." Tim was not of an over generous nature, but to' be mis- taken for a lord, was worth money, any day. He drew a shilling from his pocket, and throwing it with a contemp- tuous, careless air, on the ground, passed on, while he actu- ally got warm from the glow of pride that shot through him. "It is strange," mused Tim, "this is not the first time that fellow has addressed me as lord. I wonder what noble- man he takes me for, I wish I knew." Poor Tim, had he suddenly turned round, what a shock his vanity would have received; for there, looking after him, was the old, hypocrite leaning on his crutches, his tongue sticking out at the side of his mouth, and his fingers extended from his nose in a very suspicious manner. During this hour, too, the tents became crowded, music, dancing, drinking and love-making, being the order of the day. Mrs. Brady was heard to declare that she had enough to do for four hands, " but, glory be to God, they were drink- ing like lambs, without as much as the sign of a-scrimmage." But a cloud, " no bigger than a man's hand," was gather-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      245 into over Mrs. Brady's horizon, or rather no bigger than a man; for just as Mrs. Brady was rejoicing in the lamb-like quiet of her flock, her cloud, in the shape of Murty Joyce, walked out of a neighboring tent. I Murty was a huge young fellow, with a head impervious to sticks, who, after making himself hoarse shouting for O'Kelly and Ribbonman, had gone to a tent to wet his throat with half a pint of whiskey; and, as he now sallied forth, he looked about him with the uncertain air of a man who did not well know what to do to kill time. ," By gorras," said he, "it's as quiet as a Quakers' meet- ing, I wonder where the dirty Murphys are hiding them- selves. There's no fun stirring at all."- As Murty strolled by Mrs. Brady's tent, he saw the figure of a man's back defined against the canvass. The tent was densely crowded, and as the owner of the back was pressed against the canvass, it bulged out. Whom he might be, whether friend or foe, Murty did not know, perhaps did not care ; but at all events it was too great a temptation to be resisted by a boy like Murty, sighing for a spree. So, spitting on the hand that held his stick, he hit the canvass a whack that made the man inside bellow, while Murty, outside, shouted with laughter. Whack, whack, went the stick, the man making every effort to get out of its way. "Blood alive," he shouted, " will ye's clear the way there, don't you see I'm kilt from behind? Oh, tear-a-nouns, let me out the doore, tal I murder the treacherous villain of the world." But it was impossible to go      -"Rushing out of doors, to see If Brutus so unkindly knocked, or no." And as the knocking continued without intermission, the sufferer inside dropped upon his knees and commenced to crawl out from under the tent, disclosing, as he did so, to the delighted Murty, the red head of Shawn Murphy,-the very head that he, Murty Joyce, had been looking for in half the tents on the course. "Whew!" he exclaimed, 4' Here's luck. I'm sorry to dis- turb you, Mister Murphy, from your dlvarsion, but as you   &'46      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. are to the fore now, we may as well see out that little bus- iness we had at the fair of Loughrea. Get up, man alive, I'd scorn to take a dirty advantage of you." "So it is to you, Mister Joyce, I'm beholden for murder. ing me out and out, in the dark," said Murphy, jumping on 'his legs. "Oh, what need I doubt it, who would it be but a treacherous sarpent of a Joyce!" "' May I never break bread, Shawn, if I knew whose back -it was." "By the hole in my coat then, Murty, I'm the boy that -will soon show you whose back it was. Whoop! take that! High for Murphy." "High for Joyce! Whoop!" shouted Murty, returning the compliment just received. No sooner were these war cries heard, than out rushed from the different tents the friends of the two combatants, and in less time than I have taken to record it, there were upwards of fifty or sixty people engaged in breaking each other's heads, and as men kept continually joining either side, every weapon that could be laid hands on was in requisition,-the demand far exceeding the supply. Pipers and fiddlers were knocked off chairs and stools, and the legs of the two latter (mind, not the former,) con- verted into weapons of offense and defense; even the long poles that supported the tents, were in some instances torn up. "In the midst of the melee and uproar Mrs. Brady's voice was heard exclaiming, as she stood clapping her hands in front of her tent: ' Oh, boys, jewels! Oh, honey darlings! fight fair and keep out from the tent. Where are you hiding yourself, James Brady, you poor sneak you? Will you see your prap- erty smashed into smithereens? Oh, wirra, there's all my illigant glass gone, and I all as one as a lone woman, for sure the creature I have is no manner of use whatsomever.'" At this moment a little man who had been standing on an empty barrel, bottom up, looking on at the fight, received a blow which sent him spinning off the barrel and landed him in a sitting position, in Mrs. Brady's boiling pot. "Sairlts above us," she exclaimed, "look where Mick   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      247 Finigan, the tailor, has the presumption to place himself. You nineteenth part of a fraction of a man, how dare you destroy the beautiful vittels? Faith, as you made so free, you must have a good taste of them." And glad to have some thing or some one to vent per rage upon, she placed her broad hands on the unfortunate tailor's shoulders and commenced forcing him down into the pot, until maddened by pain, he gave her a kick which sent her on her back, whilst the tailor, pot, bacon and cabbage went rolling in an opposite direction. "4 Here's the Peelers! here's the Peelers, boys!" shouted several voices, as a party of police were seen hurrying across the course, in the direction of the combatants. There was a cessation of hostilities and an- evident idea' of joining forces to repel the common enemy. "Lick the Peelers," shouted a voice, " and see it out after- wards." But just then the bugle sounded to bring the horses to the post for the second heat, and police, fight, all were for- gotten, as the crowd broke up, laughing, shouting and run- ning. "By dad, it was a pretty fight enough while it lasted, Mat," said a young fellow to his companion, as both hur. ried across the course. "Murty Joyce is a clane fighter, but the blasted Peelers spoil every kind of divarsion." "But Neddy," asked the other, '" did you see Mary Brady holding little Mick Finigan down in the pot?' 4"Oh, didn't "I," answered Neddy. "Devil a boord he'll sit upon, I'm thinking, for a month of Sundays." Bat eight horses were to start for the second heat, and every one made for their former positions as quickly as pos- sible, between the sounding of the first and second bugle. fMr. Burke, who had seen little or nothing of the first heat, was determined to witness this one. "It is my turn this time, Mike," he said to his servant, '*so hold the mare's head while the horses are running, and don't leave her." "Never fear, sir," replied the servant, and Mr. Burke, holding the reins in his hand, stood up on the seat of his car. Once more the same buzzing and excitement-the horses   248      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. wheeling round. "Stay,-away,-they're off,-they're off." "They are off," shouted Mr. Burke, waving his hat. "My God, you are off, Pat," screamed his wife, as Mr. Burke made an involuntary somersault to the ground. Despite the caution the servant had received, he had, in his anxiety to see the horses pass, moved from the mare, and just as he did so, a parasol falling from a carriage close by, struck her on the head. Attracted by Mrs. Burle's scream, the servant turned round in time to see his master fall, and he leaped forward to catch the mare .but was too late. It is almost impossible to stay a frightened horse when allowed to take the first jump or so unchecked. With a few wild bounds the animal scattered the crowd in every direction, and though it would have appeared, a mo. ment before, impracticable to take the car from the position it was then in, without first removing some of the vehicles by which it was surrounded, yet, before Mr. Burke had re. gained his legs, she had performed that feat, and went dash- ing across the course. Mr. Burke had received no inlury from his fall, and he and his careless servant now set ff in twe direction the runaway had taken. The ground odr which the car was whirled was at first level, so that Mrs. Burekand her daugh- ters managed to hold on, but presently they came to a part that had been laid down in wheaten ridges, and Mary Jane was seen flying in the air; then Sophia Louisa, and, lastly, Mrs. Burke came bounding on mother earth, while the frightened animal continued her mad course, until, in endeavoring to cross a small. drain, she fell bleeding and exhausted. As the mare had not taken a direct course, but swerved to every side, in avoiding those who endeavored to stop her, Mrs. Burke, though the last to fall off, was the first of his family with whom Mr. Burke came up. He found his good lady sitting on the ground in a kind of half con- scious, bewildered, wife-thunder trance. "Mary, my heart," he exclaimed, as he knelt down and put his arm round her waist, ct are you much hurt? Oh no, I see you are not, your color is as good as ever. Stand up now, and you will find that there is nothing the matter with you."   TBE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     ,? 249 As he spoke he attempted to assist his wife to rise, but a loud scream from the lady made him, desist and jump up, pale and alarmed. 'iFor God's sake, Mary," he exclaimed, " what is the matter, where are hurt, are there any of your bones broken?" "Any," replied Mrs. Burke, in tones of scornful despair, as she looked down towards her feet, which, to her hus- band's great relief, she moved in and out with perfect freedom, " any, Mr. Burke? I am all dislocated; not the breadth of your nail of me together. Go sir, if you repent of your conduct, and get me a priest. My poor, poor children are past his help, but they were innocent creatures and had not much to answer for. Pat Burke, I forgive you and am sorry for you." By this time, Mr. Burke saw pretty clearly how matters stood. "Heavens, woman," he exclaimed, in rather rough tones to his departing wife, " what are you talking about? Get up and let me go to the girls. They have too much good Galway blood in them to mind a tumble from a car." But the departing woman heeded him not. "Mary Jane was killed first," she said, " and then Sophia Louisa."  "By all that's lovely the woman has lost her senses. Miary, will you try and stand up, and let me go to the girls 2 Ah, here they come, I see their bonnets moving in the crowd over there."  "Their beautiful bonnets," sighed Mrs. Burke, as with the assistance of her husband, she arose slowly from the ground, " they are, of course, made mummy of, and never can be worn again."  "Never mind the bonnets, Mary; you are not so bad all out or you would not think of them." This was an injudicious remark for Mr. Burke to make at the time, and was very near compelling Mrs. Burke to retrace her steps to the door of the silent tomb. "Oh, oh," screamed the lady.  "What is the matter now?" asked her husband.  "Oh my heart," moaned Mrs. Burke. "I do not think,  Pat Burke, you intended it; but, if I die, people will talk about you; oh, oh, my heart is so sore."    250 *     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. '" By all that's lovely, Mary," said her husband, " from the position I found you in, when I came up, I would say, that your heart is not the sorest part of you." This unfeeling sally would, no doubt, have necessitated Mrs. Burke, at least, to faint right off, did not the servant, who, culprit like, had been eyeing his mistress, now call out, " Here they are, ma'am, on Mr. Dwyer's car, and devil a feather out of them." Mike spoke thus figuratively, meaning, thereby, that the young ladies were unhurt, but Mrs. Burke, whose thoughts were divided by anxiety for the safety of her daughters and their bonnets, understood him as alluding to the latter, so she replied: (i You cannot know, at this distance, you unlucky vaga- bond, whether the feathers are out of them or not." Mike stared at her, and Mr. Burke, who perceived the absurdity of her mistake, turned his head to one side, lest she might see him laughing, mentally vowing to remember it as a good joke against her. From the moment Tom Dwyer's car appeared, Mr. Burke felt quite satisfied as to the safety of his daughters, for Tom had kept waving his hat in a joyous manner. " Here they are," he exclaimed, as he drove up, " safe and sound, barring the fright. Mary and myself were delayed by some friends in a tent until the horses started, and as we were making our way across the course the young ladies fell quite close to us. The sight left my own eyes when I saw them falling. I hope Mrs. Burke is not hurt, sir ?" " More frightened than hurt, Tom, I hope," replied Mr. Burke. " I am sure we are very much obliged to you; you are always in the way to do a good turn, Tom." As soon as the flat car had~ stopped, the Misses Burke jumped down and ran to their mother, who embraced them in a very tragic manner, and, as she raised her eyes to heaven, to give thanks for their miraculous escape, she failed not to observe if their bonnets were equally fortunate. Alas, no! Sophia Louisa's was literally ', knocked into a cocked hat." "Your father, my dears," said Mrs. Burke, did not in-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,   , 901 tend anything, although he was so positive about putting that dreadful horse under the car." "Didn't intend what, ma'am ?" asked Tom Dwyer. The honest surprise in which the jolly farmer put this question, made Mrs. Burke ashamed of the conjugal line of ill humor she had adopted against her husband, so she re- plied, "I mean that Mr. Burke did not foresee any danger, or he would have taken my advice, and drove our steady fam- ily horse." "To be sure he would," said Dwyer. "And you know, mamma," said Mary Jane, "it was Sophy's and my fault, and not papa's, for we were coaxing him all the week to bring the young mare." "Thank you, Mary Jane," replied her father. "By all that's lovely, if I am tried at the next assizes, and your mother comes forward to swear I killed her, I must have you and Sophy for witnesses." By this time Mrs. Dwyer, with the assistance of her hus- band, had managed to roll herself off the car, and coming up to Mrs. Burke, commenced to console her after a fashion of Mrs. Dwyer's own, by telling her she was the most mis- fortunest fool of a woman in the world, "but," she concluded, "thank God, there are no bones broken, and if you like, Mrs. Burke, you and the girls can have the flat car to go home in. There's a beautiful feather bed on it, and Tom will drive you himself. I'll get a seat home with some of the neighbors." Although Mary Jane and Sophia (being good girls at heart,) could not listen to the kind, goodvnatured tones of their humble friend without feeling thankful to her, still they eyed the flat car and feather bed with woe-begone looks. Their glances did not escape Mrs. Dwyer, but she was too good-humored and, withal, contented with her po- sition, to feel either vexed or humiliated; on the contrary, she laughed until her fat sides shook. "I know girls," she said, "that you would be ashamed to be seen driving out of the course on the flat car, before all the company, but Tom will wait until they're all gone, and then no one will see yoU; that is, if you cannot get a bet. ter way for them, Mr. Burke."   253     THE DALYS OF DALYSTO WN. There was a self respect in Mrs. Dwyer's hearty laugh that contrasted well with the silly pride of the young girls, and rebuked it. Mary Jane kissed her red cheek and said, "We are neither ashamed of you or your car, Mrs. Dwyer, but if we go home in it, you must come with us, and we will make you as comfortable as we can.'7 And I will pfay all the old Irish airs you like so much," added Sophia. "Well said, my darlings," exclaimed Mr. Burke. "' By all that's lovely, for them same words you shall have the gold chains you were hinting about last week. Halloa, Tom, do you hear that cheer ' Ribbonman has won the race, I bet my life. Stay here for a moment, like a good fellow, until I run over td the winning post to hear the news. If I can, Mary, I will get a car to bring you and the girls home." And away went Mr. Burke at the top of his speed, but, before he had proceeded far across the course, he was oonfirred in his supposition that Ribbonman had won the day, by seeing the renowned Tom Tinker borne aloft on the shoulders of the crowd, who were cheering lustily for O'Kelly, Rutledge and Ribbonman. A hack race terminated the day's sport, and by the time it was over, night had almost set in, but that made little difference, as the moon, which was at its full; rose about sunset. The greater number of the vehicles on leaving the course, were driven in the direction of the town of T , where there was to be, on this evening, a ball and ordinary,-the former exclusive, being confined to those invited by mem- bers of the Galway hunt; the latter open to the public. Tim O'Roarke had resolved to attend the ordinary, so he did not accompany his father home, as the Lake View road was in an opposite direction to the one leading to T O'Roarke had drank deeply during the day and, pot-val- iant, he set out alone to return home ; a very unusual thing for him to do, especially after sunset. For upwards of three miles, the road he traveled over was crowded with persons like himself, returning from the races. The rapid rate he rode at enabled him to pass all thiose whom he overtook and, when after half an hour's hard   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,      253 riding, he turned into a less frequented road and had con- tinued on it for about a mile, he found himself altogether alone. He seemed now, for the first time, to be aware of the lateness of the hour, for as he noticed the long shad- ow his figure flung upon the grass bordering the road, he reined in his horse and looked up at the sky. The red flush that drinking had given to his face passed away and he be- came thoroughly sober. "By  ,it's moonlight," he exclaimed. "What a cur- sed fool I am to be traveling here alone, at such an hour. I would sooner do it the darkest night that ever came. Well, I suppose after all, there is not much danger. Every d-n ruffian in the country has been at those races and is still drinking in the tents. I will be home now in) no time." He was now about three miles from his house, and, spurring his horse, he again set off at a pace that promised to bring him speedily there. After traveling two miles farther, he came to another road leading directly to his home; this was merely a by-road, passing by the avenue gate of Lake View, and terminating at a village, a mile farther on. High banks, with quickset growing on their tops, bounded it on either side, and the lands adjoining were farmed by O'Roarke. A few years before the period I am writing of, a large vil- lage dotted this road, and one could still trace out where the little cottage gardens stood, by the rich green look of the grass in those spots. A few old mlouldering walls, too, still remained standing on the sites of the former houses,-- perishable records, witnessing that a little community of sim- ple warm-hearted people had, for generations, lived, laugh- ed toiled, wept and died, here, while the wrong that drove them hence, was registered on the eternal records of Him who has said " vengance is mine, and I will repay it." What crime was charged against them, to drive them thus forth, houseless wanderers over the earth? Behold it here! Mark how humble must have been the roof that surmount- ed these walls, and then the richness of the land around. Down in the valley is the dwelling of the middleman, the purse-proud spawn' of misgovernment and wrong. These Leicester sheep and Durham cattle are his, the people have been banished to make room for those nobler animals, and ,      A,t   254      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. the sheep and the oxen and the middleman thrive and fat- ten. But the people Ah! some of them have not journey. ed far, but have laid their broken hearts in the lonely church ard, beside the bones of their kindred, others are stroll. ing paupers; others of them again, have found homes in distant lands. Many of them have prospered, but the smile has passed forever from their faces, for the lightness of heart from whence it sprung has been quenched with the fires of their humble hearths. One still remains to haunt these familiar scenes. There is no land, no spot of earth, in this wide world, that can give him a home.-A home I Where are those who should share it with him-the gentle wife that lay upon his manly breast, the child that dancedinlight before his eyes a Dead! mur- dered, as he believes, and for many a day their forms have been before his crazed imagination. At one time as they were in life: then again as they lay dead, the cold rain beat- ing on their colder faces-but in whatever forms or shapes they come, ever beckoning him to revenge. And now he feels that their murderer approaches; he hears his horses. step upon the road from where he lies crouching like a tiger-the veins on his forehead filled almost to bursting, his breathing short, and his sunken eyes glaring through the bushes that conceal his form from, view. Ever and anon, he passes his hand across his eyes,-a mist of blood is dancing before them. When O'Roarke turned down the by-road his pace was changed from a quick trot to a furious gallop; a sudden fear, or presentiment of danger, seemed to take possession of him, for as he rode along, he kept throwing his head to the right and left, as if expecting to see a hidden enemy. In a few minutes he had reached his avenue gate, and, with a sigh of relief, he reined up his horse. As he was about to draw the gate towards him, he perceived that there had been two or three large stones placed against it, which preventedit from opening. , Blast them," he muttered," they want to show how care- ful they are in my absence." Dismounting, he tied his horse by the rein to the gate, and just as he did so, there was a report--a fash,- and   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      255 O'Roarke staggered against the gate. Recovering himself, and uttering a loud cry of "murder," he endeavored to reach his horse. At the same moment Bryan Lorkin club- bing the gun which he had just discharged, leaped out upon the road. The height from' which he jumped, checked him for a moment, and gave O'Roarke time to draw a pistol from his breast. Had he been a cool, brave man, Lorkin was now completely in his power; but, as it was, he fired wildly, without taking aim, and before he could draw a second pis- tol, his enemy was upon him. Utterin a yell of rage, Lor- kin swung the gun over his head, but O'Roarke stooped, and the blow aimed at him struck the gate, shivering the stock off the barrel. Flinging the gun from him, Lorkin grap- pled with his adversary. O'Roarke was a powerful man, and, despite the strength that his mad fury might have lent, for a moment, to the' emaciated frame of Lorkin, the former would have quickly overpowered him, but that he was bad- ly wounded, both in the side and shoulder by the slugs with which the gun had been loaded. Uttering a cry for mercy, he was borne to the ground, and Lorkin, placing both knees upon his chest, grasped him by the throat. Whether it was that the dreadful hold his murderer hd taken prevented him from speaking, or that one glance at those horrid, pitiless eyes, glaring down upon him, made him feel how hopeless would be an appeal for mercy; O'Roarke never spoke after he had fallen. Thus they struggled for a few moments-ages to the bad man who now battled for life-their faces so close that each felt the hot breath of the other as it came hissing through their clenched teeth. Presently, O'Roarke's features became swollen and dis- torted, and his eyes protruded from his head; in a few seconds the struggle would be over. At this moment he perceived a knife concealed in his enemy's bosom; a ray of hope rallied his failing energies, he snatched it from its place of concealment and plunged it into Lorkin's side. Drawing it out, he would have repeated the blow, but a thrill of pain, of fear, lest his victim was about to escape from him, shot through the murderer's frame; those bony   256      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. fingers closed like an iron vice upon the throat they held, and the knife dropped from O'Roarke's powerless hand. Then a gurgling sound issued from his throat, the blood started from his nostrils, his frame shivered, his under jaw fell upon his chest, and the murderer knew as he gazed upon him that he was dead. But thac look was not one of triumph, but of utter horror and despair; for as the poor wretch's strength ebbed with the life-blood which flowed from his side, the darkness with which wrong and sorrow had clouded his mind passed away, and his soul awoke to the full conscious- ness of his crime. A thousand voices yelled in his ears, i murderer!"The night winds took up that cry, and, whirl. ing it round his head, sped with it away, away, through the world! The earth shook under him, as it belched forth the damning word; he clasped his hands feebly together. " Mercy, sweet Saviour!" he murmured, as he rolled upon his back. Thus, the murdered and the murderer, the op- pressor and the avenger, lay side by side, in death. Up to this the horse had remained quiet, but now, as he scented the blood which flowed from the bodies, a terrible' fear seized upon him. His whole frame shook, and from every pore of his body, there started big drops of sweat; then, as the bloody stream crept closer and closer to him, his fear became frenzy, he neighed wildly, gave one fierce plunge, and, snapping the rein by which he was held, rushed madly up the road, ever and anon snorting and turning his head in the direction from whence he came. A few moments, and the clatter of his hooves had died away in the distance. Then  11 was silence, while the stars looked down upon the faces of the dead, and into those sightless eyes upturned to the sky.   THE DALYS OT DALYSTOWN.      267 CHAPTER XXI It is said that in England nothing is ever done in time; that is, nothing of importance, until some startling event takes place, showing the necessity for action. "They will be locking the doors of those railway carriages on passen- gers," said Rev. Sidney Smith,-,unntil a bishop is burned." It would be very charitable to attribute to this national trait of character the supineness which the English gov- ernment has always evinced in dealing with agrarian crime in Ireland, until it culminated to a certain point, especially when a far more tangible reason can be adduced. O'Con- nell had proclaimed, over and over, that " he who commit- ted a crime gave strength to the enemy." (Alas! for the country whose government was that enemy!) And the government of England endorsed this truth, by fostering crime in Ireland, with the object of making it subservient to their designs. Therefore, when any district became in- fected with agrarian crime, there were, at first, no steps taken to put it down ; on the contrary, the police, gene- rally, denied its existence. Mr. Bull had trained his dogs too well to allow of their running in and " flushing the game," but when the infection had spread until men were shot down at their own doors, then the government awoke, martial law was proclaimed, special commissions were sent down to hang a certain number of persons; whether those, so hanged were the guilty parties or not, made but little dif- ference. The Minister of the day demanded from Parlia- ment measures more stringent than those which-were at the very root of the evil he pretended to deplore, or made use of the crimes of the few as arguments for withholding the rights of the many. That the English government was not sincere in its efforts to suppress agrarian outrages in Ireland, no one conversant with the facts, can deny; that it had, from time to time, paid agents to encourage these 17   268      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. outrages, I at least, believe. It would, indeed, be impossi. ble to prove any connection between the Lord Lieutenant, in Dublin Castle, and such a ruffian as Maloney in the coun. try; but connections between villains of his stamp and the police have been frequently proved and exposed, and the Castle of Dublin and police barracks of Ireland stand in very close relationship to each other.  I have deemed it necessary to say this mich, to show that Maloney, in establishing a ribbon lodge, in the neighbor. hood of Dalystown, might have believed that he was en- gaged in a safe and profitable speculation. He felt per. fectly confident that he would be allowed time to ensnare his dupes; and when he had led them to the perpetration of some great crime, he could turn on them, and pocket the reward which the government would be sure to offer. This being so, he was by no means prepared for the turn subse. quent events took. No sooner had the murder of O'Roarke become known, than there issued from the Castle, a government reward of five hundred pounds to, any person who would give infor. mation that would lead to the conviction of one or more of those who were supposed to have conspired with the late Bryan Lorkin, for the purpose of murdering O'Roarke. ;In the meantime, two judges were requested to keep them- selves in readiness to go down on a special commission, when the crown solicitor would notify that he had a suf- ficiently respectable number bagged, ready for hanging; for the government never doubted but that its friend, the informer, was lurking somewhere. About two o'clocik in the morning, on the day after this proclamation appeared posted on the outside of the differ- ent police barracks in the district, a party of fourteen po- lice, under the command of a sergeant, entered their bar- rack, which was about four miles distant from Lake View, and stood at a point where four roads branched off, com- pletely isolated from the house,-one of those picturesque, rural little specimens of " law and order" architecture, that a paternal government has scattered, broadcast, over the country. As soon as the police party entered, the door was locked and bolted, and the men commenced divesting   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN..      269 themselves of their wet overcoats,--for it had been rain- ing most of the time they were out on duty,-examining and wiping their muskets, and placing the latter,' together with their side arms, on racks, set round the room to re- ceive them. Two men, who had been left as guard, assist- ed the sergeant to get off his wet coat, and. as he turned his back to a fine fire, he drew a pair of handcuffs from his pocket, and flinging them upon a table, enquired if all was right in his absence?"All right," replied one of the men. ,.I suppose they're in bed," said the sergeant, pointing to an inner room. "These four hours ; they thought you'd be bringing home with you some'friends they'd as soon not meet." "I never had such blasted bad luck," replied the sergeant, "not a man, in any of the houses we visited; it must have got wind that this fellow came in. I wouldn't care so much, if I had the old bird caged; the others can be had after a lit- tle, but if he suspects anything, he'll be off, God knows where." "You were after him to-night?"' "Yes, but missed him. Come my men," continued thee sergeant turning to the others, "tumble into bed." The men were glad to obey this command, and in a few moments the sergent and'the two men that constituted the guard, were left alone. The former had but waited to give some parting instructions, and was in the act of leav- ing the room, when a low knocking was heard at the outer door. "Who the dickens can that be?" he said, stopping short. "May be some traveler that saw the light, and wants to enquire his road," replied one of the men. "I am mistaken," said the sergeant, " if that's not the; knock of some one who is afraid of something." The knocking was now renewed a little louder. 4 Go, Dwyer," said the sergeant, " and see who it is." The man went to the outer door. "Who is there '" lhe asked. "I want to see Sergeant Murphy," replied a voice from the outside. "What do you want with him " '   270      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "I can't tell that to any one but himself." "Open the door, Dwyer," said the sergeant. "' A nice hour you come," said the policeman, as he unbarred the door and opened it. "Its the best hour for me," replied a man entering. He wore a large frieze coat, with the collar turned up; a hand. kerchief concealed the lower part of his face, and his hat was drawn tightly wn n over his eyebrows. As he entered the room, he removed the hat and handkerchief, disclosing, as he did so, the ruffian features of Maloney. "By G-," he said, as he shook the rain off him, "'the night is as dark as a crow's wing." "What do you want with me?" asked Sergeant Murphy, eyeing his visitor keenly. Maloney moved :over to him; his manner had all the fa- rniliar ease'of one who believes he has that to tell which w. ill make him welcome. "Whisper," he said, " let the men go away, and I will tell you." "Go into the next room men," said the sergeant. "Now. what's your business? Be quick, I want to go to bed." Maloney had very coolly drawn a chair to the fire and commenced warming his hands over the blaze. " Easy, sergeaht," he replied, " give me time to draw my breath; I had a run, I tell you." Then sinking his voice to a whisper, "maybe I'm come to give you a little informa- tion." "About what?" "About O'Roarke's business," he replied, his voice still lower, whilst he keenly watched the effect his words would have; but, to his great astonishment, the sergeant did not seem much moved by this information. "What is your name?" asked the latter. "I'm more or less a stranger in these parts," replied Ma- loney, avoiding a direct answer, "but the police, in Tip- perary, know me well, and would give a good character of me." Before he had concluded, the sergeant snatched the can- dle of the table, and now, holding it close to Maloney's face, examined his features with an interest not agreeable to that worthy.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. 2.1 -"Faith you'll know me again," he said endeavoring ot appear at ease. 'I think I will," replied the policeman, as he replaced the candle on the table. ccI think I know you now; your name is John Maloney."  "I'm not ashamed of my name, Sergeant Murphy." "Whew," whistled the Sergeant, "here's luck. Dwye^" he called out, " do you and Clarke come here." When the men had entered the room, the Sergeant went over to the door, and, closingit, let a heavy bolt fall across." "This is John Maloney, men," said Sergeant Murphy, as he took a seat on the corner of the table, (a position which commanded the door) whilst he took upp the handcuffs, he lad thrown upon it, and twirled them round his fingers. This is, Mr. Joshn Maloney, himself, that's good enough to come see us." "Maloney!" said Dwyer, in accents of delight, ' by dad, Mr. Maloney, you're a decent man, to come here, of your own accord, and save us the trouble of hunting the country for you." "What's the meaning of all this?"' said Maloney whose face had grown ashy pale, "if yees can find nothing better to do, than to humbug a man that's come as a friend to tile government, I'll just go my way and find them that will be glad to listen to me." As he spoke, he stood up and made a step forward, but the sergeant motioned him back. "Sit down, Maloney," he said, " we're not going to part so soon, for I'm after traveling over a goodmany miles to have a word with you." "Why, who told you I  had anything to tell?" Devil a one, avick, it is the other way, 'tis something I have to tell you." c; What is it?" "That you are my prisoner," answered the sergeant. "Here, Dwyer, put on the 'darbies,'" and he tossed the handcuffs to the man he addressed. When   Maloney saw the policeman advancing to him, he fell back in the chair, paralyzed with fear; his huge limbs shook in every joint, and Dwyer beckoned over the other, j f J   '2      THE DALY$ OF DALYSTOWlN. policeman to assist in holding his arms steady while he placed the handcuffs on his wrists. This ruffian, whose trade was blood, -who, without one pang of remorse, had led his dupes, step by step, into crime; watching for the time when he would be enabled to hand them over to the common hangman and receive his bloody reward,-this burly bully, to whom murder was a household word, lacked, after all, the smallest portion of brute cour. age, in the presence of danger. "Htell-you," he said, endeavoring to catch his voice, like a man after ascending a steep hill, "H-tell-you-this is some great mistake you are making. Didn't I come here to tell who they war that planned O'Roarke's murder, and isn't there a reward of five hundred pounds for that same?v Will you bring me before a magistrate, and see if I don't earn it? Aye, I'll give you twenty necks for the hangman before forty-eight hours." "'A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush,' Mr. Maloney," replied Sergeant Murphy. "They say you were at the head and tail of the job yourself." "All the better," answered the ruffian, a when: I'm ready to turn informer. Do you mean to tell ime I wonjt be taken'@" "I think not." "And why so, may I ask you?" "Because we have one already," replied the sergeant. "An informer," yelled Maloney.--"In the devil's name, who is he?." "Well, I don't care to tell you, as you!ll meet him in a few hours. Do you know one Barney Casey 8" "The boccagh?" exclaimed Maloney. "Fye, Mr. Maloney," said the sergeant, laughing, the :ecretaly, you mean." 4"Oh, I'm lost," groaned Maloney. ( Come man," said the sergeant, " you know now pretty well the hold that's on you, so I advise you say nothing be- fore us that you would care to have told over again." "But sergeant, dear, I intended all along to turn informer." "You are a day late." "But I had an understanding with Sub-Inspector Parker, of Nenagh, before I came here, and he promised to hold mle harmless."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      273 So it was Parker sent you here," replied Sergeant Mur- phy. "Well, he won't do you much good; he was dismissed the other day, for getting the police under his command to put ribbon papers into the pockets of drunken men, and then taking them up." "Inspector Parker dismissed?" said Maloney, "Why, it was only last year that the Lord Liftenant gave him a beau- tiful sword*." "Well," said Dwyer, winking at his comrade, Clarke, "Iike yourself, he botched his last job, and his friends turned against him. If they catch him now, they'll trans. port him. Barney Casey was too much for you, after all, though you are a Tipperary bird, and ' an old hand at the bellows.'"  "Where is the boccagh?" asked Maloney, not heeding the taunt. , "Indeed, himself and his worthy father are asleep inside there," answered the sergeant. "Old Casey," exclaimed Maloney, " why,--is he going to inform too?" "Faith," replied Murphy, "I suppose he'd have no objec- tion to such work, but one will do; the reason he is here. is, that he didn't think he'd be quite safe at home, when it came to be known that Barney turned informer. But I must turn in and get some sleep, for the magistrates are to meet here early to-day, to examine the secretary. It was late yesterday evening, when he gave himself up, and Mr. Darcy, before whom I brought him, just made out a- short: list of some of the names he mentioned, and: handed it to me. Your's was the first name he gave in, and the last, and the middle one; he never tired of twisting it round his tongue. He's mighty fond of you, all out, Mr. Maloney." "But it's not too late yet," said Maloney. "What's not too late i?" asked the sergeant. "This Casey is not taken as an informer as yet," he an. swered. "They'll have to write to the government first. I knew all about it. Oh, sergeant, dear, speak a good word for me with the gentlemen, and they'll take me instead of Casey. I'll be worth two of the fellow at the green table." A fact. /   274      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOW- "Not in Galway," replied Sergeant Murphy. c There's not much respect for your trade here; and although I have a policeman's coat on me, I'd have you to know I am not much like your friend Parker. If what is told of you is true, and if it was you set all this disturbance on foot in the country, I'd hang you with my own hands, if no one else could be got to do the job, Hlere, Dwyer, lock him up in the black hole." "Won't I be brought before the magistrates when they come?" asked Maloney. '"It's not likely that I'll forget to tell them you are here," answered the sergeant. i"But you needn't think they'll take you as an informer, for Mr. Darcy told me he'd have you hanged, if it cost him five hundred pounds." After receiving this comfortable assurance, Mr. Maloney was conducted out of the room and down a narrow passage, at the end of which was a low door, studded with nails. The policeman opened the door, "Get in there," he said, "you'll find a stretcher at the other end." So saying, he shoved him in and locked the door, thus' leaving Maloney, " a friend to the government," in a dark cell, with a darker fear thumping at his heart. About ten o'clock, on the same day, several magistrates, amongst whom was Godfrey Daly, met in a large room at the police barrack, used once a month as a Petty Sessions Court, Mr. Darcy, the gentleman before whom the cripple had been brought the previous evening, having written to them requesting their presence. Shortly after they had assembled, he briefly stated the substance of the informa- tion he had received from the cripple. "We will now, gentlemen," he concluded, "have this person brought before us. Policemen, bring him in." As Barney Casey entered the room, he shot a furtive, en- quiring look at those present, and then cast his eyes upcn the ground, whilst a burning blush of shame overspread his sickly features. The truth was, the poor wretch's nature was peculiarly sensitive; it was Maloney's brutal and con- temptuous treatment of him, that first gave him the idea of becoming an informer, for thus only could he be revenged   - THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     275 on the strong bully; but now, as he stood in the presence of his superiors, he felt keenly, in his warped soul, the great gulf that was between him and them. Like all his class, he had tne most exalted idea of the position and honor of such men; and he now thought how they must despise and loathe the vile informer standing be. fore them. "Casey," said Mr. Darcy, who acted as chairman, " you came before me on yesterday evening, and made a volun- tary statement relative to the murder of Mr. O'Roarke. Are you prepared to repeat that statement now, in the presence of these gentlemen." "I am, sir," replied the cripple, without raising his eyes. "I caution you," continued the magistrate, " that what you shall now say, will be taken down, and may be used against you, if the government refuses to accept of you as an infor- mer. Barney gave a bitter smile, as he answered, ( I'm not afraid A of that, your honor. What would-they hang me for, I'm not worth it?"l "This person," said Mr. Darcy, addressing his brother magistrates, "was brought, as I have mentioned to you already, before me, yesterday evening, by Sergeant Mur- phy; as he wished to give information relative to the hor- rid murder that has occurred in our midst. Before I al- lowed him to do so, I cautioned him, as I do now. The statement which he rthen made I committed to writing; I now produce it. There is a good deal of irrelevant matter in it, and I think it will expedite this investigation much, if you allow me to question Casey, referring, of course, to the document before me. We can have his depositions after- wards, fully drawn out." "I can see no objection," said Mr. Daly, "to the course you propose." The other magistrates expressed similar opinions, and when the chairman had glanced over the paper he held in his hand, he said, addressing the cripple, "your name ia Bernard Casey?" "Yes, sir." "Where do you live'?"   276      THEs DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "I live with my grandfather, sir, at Tubberbeg." "Your grandfather keeps a shebeen' " * "He did, sir," answered Barney. "He couldn't help it, gentlemen, he was t6o old to work, and, God help me! I was not able to do anything for him, and so he had to do this for a living." "' You stated that people were in the habit of meeting at night, at your grandfather's." "The boys ever and always resorted there, sir, to play cards, or the like; but when Maloney came to this part of the country, they began to have regular nights for meeting.' "Who is Maloney .?' asked one of the magistrates. "You shall hear presently," answered Mr. Darcy, " in the meantime, gentlemen, I have to tell you, that this person is now in custody; he came here this morning for the pur- pose of offering himself as an informer, I have no doubt but. that it is his trade, and was arrested by Sergeant Murphy. Now, Casey, tell us what you know of this Maloney, and what took place at your grandfather's, from the time he commenced to go there." "About six months ago," answered the cripple, "Malo ' ney first came to our house, with one or two others; he was a stranger in the country, and no one knew well where he come from, not even them he came with; he said himself' he was from Tipperary. From this out, he was at our house almost every night, for a month, and the house would be crowded with people when he was there; for he had a great deal to say about what he saw, and what happened to him on his travels. One night, he was silent all out, and they asked him what ailed him. 'By dad,' said he 'Im puzzled. I like ye's all very well, and would wish to serve ye, but you see I'm a stranger, and how do I know if I can trust you. I'll venture anyhow.' He then told them that there was to be a great rising soon, to free the country. That the first gentlemen in Ireland were at the head of it, and had their sittings in Dublin, and lodges scattered over the country; that he was a member and was sent amongst them to find out if they were spirited people, in this part of the country, likely to join; that, at the present time, he * A low, unlicensed public house.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       2'75 could not tell the names of them that sent him, but, if the boys liked, he would swear them in, as members, and give the passwords of the society. All that were listening to him were more or less hearty,* and that night he swore them in as members, and gave them the passwords. At first my grandfather and myself refused to be sworn, but Maloney said we would not be asked to do anything; and, says he to the others, 'your livkes are in their hands,' and they should be made members of. In a minute, sure, we were forced upon our knees, and made to take the oath; and a dreadful oath it was. From this night out, they met regular, at our house, once a week, and some times oftener, but Wednesday was the regular night of meeting. Malo- ney told them that what they had to do for the present, was to take arms from them they knew would not be friendly to the cause, and to make as many members as they could. When he found out that I had a little ]earn- ing, he said I should act as secretary, and keep a list of the members' names; But not a fourth of them he made me write down, ever came next or nigh my grandfather's." "Have you that list?" "No, sir, I burned it after Mr. O'Roarke was shot, for I was afraid the police would search the house." (The truth was, Barney had destroyed this list, because James Dela- ny's name was on it.) "Now, gentlemen," said Mr. Darcy, "I think, for the present, we have heard enough of the birth and parentage of this illegal society; so we will, if you please, come to that part of the evidence which bears directly on the sub- ject of this investigation. "You remember, Casey, the fifth of October last?" "Yes, your honor." "Did any persons meet at your grandfather's on the night of the fifth .l" "Yes, sir, Maloney, and some others." X "How many in all?" Barney hesitated a moment, and then replied, " there were seventeen in all, sir."- "Now tell: us what took place on that night." 'American, tight.   278      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "That night," said Barney, "Maloney proposed to shoot Mr. O'Roarke, and Bryan Lorkin was chosen to do it." ,'There was a regular lodge meeting, I suppose, that night," said Mr. Darcy. "Yes, sir." "And Maloney proposed, you say, that they should shoot Mr. O'Roarke?" "Yes, sir, it was from him it came." '"How did they decide on the person that was to shoot him '?" "They drew lots, sir." "And the lot fell on Bryan Lorkin .?" "No, sir, it fell on another, but he refused to do it, and Lorkin took his place." "Was there any certain time fixed upon that night, for shooting Mr. O'Roarke?" *' No, sir, Maloney told them to be on the lookout and hear what fairs, or the like, he would be going to," "Now will you give us the names of those who were pres. ent, on that night " ' Barney mentioned sixteen names, including Maloney's and Bryan Lorkin's. Mr. Darcy wrote down each name, as it was mentioned. "How is this?" said the latter, " you have stated that there were seventeen persons present, and I have here but six- teen names." "I told the truth, sir, but there was one there whose name I did not wish to mention." "You had better take care, sir," replied Mr. Darcy. "I warn you, that your only chance of mercy for yourself, is not to conceal anything." "I don't care," replied the cripple. "If you were to bring me out this moment to hang me before the door, there was one there I'll never betray;" and for the first time he looked in the face of his examiners. "Do you expect" asked one of them," that the government will pay you the reward which they have offered,for this half confidence?"' "What I'm after doing," replied Barney, "I did more for the sake of having revenge on the villain that never passed   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      279 me without a jibe or a blow, than for the reward. There was but one there, that ever spoke kindly to me, or felt for me. Love, gentlemen, is as strong as hate. Besides," he added, "he quarrelled with Maloney, when the villain proposed to have O'Roarke shot, and if his advice was tak- en he never would be shot." "If that is the case, no harm is likely to come to him." "I don't know that, sir, he was there anyhow, and I don't know how it would be turned against him. You have enough without him," he continued, "I took an oath, because I was forced to do it, and I broke it. I took another of my own accord, which I'll keep." "What was that?" asked Godfrey Daly. "To hang," replied the cripple, " sooner than betray him that never met me without giving a kind word and a friendly smile. Gentlemen," he continued, with a flushed cheek, and sparkling eye, "all your lives, you are accustomed to see yourselves respected; as you go along the road, the people take off their hats to you, and when you go home, there are those who love you. The likes of you can never know the strong hold that a kind word will take upon the heart of such as I am." There was a pause, as the magistrates looked with puz- zled faces at one another. Not one of them but felt that it would be beneath him to press the cripple any farther; and Godfrey Daly actually smiled upon him. Neither to himself, or to the others, did he appear half so vile, as he did on entering the room an hour before. "Perhaps," said Mr. Daly, "it would be as well that the witness should withdraw. for a short time." "I think so," replied ir. Darcy. "Sergeant bring him to another room. When we require his presence, we will call you." When Barney had retired with the sergeant, the gentle- men, with one accord, turned to Mr. Daly. "By my honor," said the latter, "I believe the greatest scoundrel that lives has a jewel hid somewhere about hinm if one could find the way to it." "But, Daly, what do you propose?" asked Mr. Darcy. "Oh, leave the poor wretch his jewel, by all means. He      280      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, has given you a list, that would satisfy the appetite of a Judge Norbury; besides, we have the arch fiend, the con. coctor of the murder, now in custody. It would, I think, be injudicious to frighten or bully the person on whose evi. dence we hope to bring him to justice." "That is true enough," said an old gentleman, who had not before spoken. "By the Lord Harry, I'll hire a chaise to go see this fellow, Maloney, hanged; d-n me if I don't." A"Why," said Mr. Daly smiling, -' I thought my old friend, Billy Warburton, never cared to witness the death of any- thing, but a fox." "But I feel convinced, Daly, that this fellow came to the country for no other purpose, than to get our throats cut. I'll hire a chaise to go and see him hanged, d-n me if I don't" "Yet," said Mr. Daly, " we must have other proof, besides the evidence of an informer, to convict this man. Do you know, Darcy, if the prisoner was searched?" "I do not. But we can ask the sergeant." Sergeant Murphy was then recalled. "Has the prisoner been searched?" asked Mr. Daly. "No, sir." "It should have been done." "The handcuffs were never removed since I took him into custody," replied Sergeant Murphy. 4"So whatever was on his person then, is there still." He then retired, and in a few minutes returned with some papers which he had found in Maloney's pockets. Mr. Darcy looked over them. "This is most fortunate," he exclaimed, "Here are a number of passwords, signs, and reg- ulations for Lodge No. 31; drawn up and signed by Mr. Malo- ney, at least, his name is to them. They are unmeaning gibberish, as is always the case-mnerely intended to de- ceive, by a show of mystery, but nevertheless very good evidence against this fellow." ' "Very good," said Mr. Daly, " now let us have Casey in again; it strikes me he may give us some clue to further ev. idence." "I have not seen you, Daly, for many a day, take such an active part in any of our magisterial proceedings," said '   '      s.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      281 Mr. Darcy. "I assure you we have often wished for the as- sistance of your clear head." "I would hang this ruffian with my own hand," replied Godfrey Daly. "You can have a seat in the chaise, Daly," said old Mr. Warburton, in such a matter-of-fact tone, that all present laughed. When the cripple again made his appearance, Mr. Daly addressed him: "We are inclined, " he said, "to give credence to what you have told us ; so much so, that I have no doubt but that on our own representation, the government will accept you as a crown witness. But your evidence alone would be in- sufficient to convict any of those persons. Now, as to Malo- ney,-do you know of any circumstance, or any way, by which we could procure other evidence against him?" "I do, sir," replied Barney, without hesitation. "Wasn't the gun that shot Mr. O'Roarke, found lying by him?" "Yes," answered Mr. Daly .2' "I have it in my possession," said Sergeant Murphy. "The stock is smashed off the barrel." "That gun was Maloney's," said Barney. "Can you give us any proof of this, besides your own word?" asked Mr. Daly. "I can, sir. Isn't there an iron band round the stock?" "There is," replied the sergeant. "Cassidy, the smith, at Mr. Daly's cross-roads, put that on for Maloney; he'll know his own work," said Barney. "Let one of your men, sergeant, take my horse and go for this man," said Mr. Darcy. "Let the policeman not re- turn without him." "If your honor pleases," said the cripple, "he may as well bring Luke Murphy, the carpenter, along too. He lives a little beyant Cassidy's." "Of course," replied Mr. Darcy.  "What can he prove '", "It was he made that stock for Maloney," "By heavens, Daly, we have the rascal," exclaimed Mr. Darcy. "I think so," replied Mr. Daly. "Would to God, every ,coundrel like him, in Ireland, was as well secured. Go, ,   g28      TIM DALYS OF DALTSTOWN. sergeant, and send for those men at once. Casey can with. draw for some time. Leave him in charge of a policeman; he is to hold no communication with his grandfather or any other person, until his depositions are drawn up and sworn to. "You can return here yourself." In two hours after, the policeman, who had been sent for the carpenter and smith, returned, bringing the two men with him. They seemed somewhat frightened, when brought into the presence of the magistrates; but Mr. Daly re-assured them by saying: '"We have sent for you, for the purpose -of asking you a few questions, to which, I am sure, you will give truthful answers. I know both these men to be honest, well-ble haved persons." "Long life to you, Mr. Daly," said Cassidy, "you were never backward in speaking a good word, for a poor per con., The broken gun was now produced, and Murphy was ask- ed, had he seen it before. "It was myself that made this stock, your honors," he re- plied. "Who did you make it for?" "For a man of the name of John Maloney;, this is the barrel he gave me to fit it into." "Very well. Now, Cassidy, take that stock." The man did so. "Yes," he said looking at it, "It was' put on this band." "For whom?" "For John Maloney, sir, the stock was cracked ; he told me, at the time, that he fell off a wall and cracked it." "Do either of you know anything of this man, more than his name, or do you know where he has come from 8" Both men answered these questions in the negative. ," That will do," said Mr. Darcy, " you may retire, but re. main below, as we will want you presently. Now, gentle men," he continued, when the witnesses had withdrawn. '4 I think we will have Maloney brought before us for the purpose of having him identified." Soon after, Maloney, handcuffed and guarded by two po- licemen, was ushered in. The ruffian had schooled himself   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      ;J to look as calm as his coward nature would allow of; but his restless eye and quivering lip showed how assumed his calmness was. As he entered the room, he gave a hurried glance to that part of it, in which he expected to see the cripple, and seemed relieved to find that he was not pres- ent. He then looked at the others, but old Mr. Warburton was the only one of them he could look at steadily for a moment. The moment he encountered the clear, stern, look of Godfrey Daly, his eyes dropped,while his face, if possible, grew a shade more pallid. "What is your name ." asked Mr. Daly. "John Maloney, your honor," he replied, not directing his eyes to him who asked the question, but to Mr. Warbur- ton's face. There is no doubt but that wild beasts and madmen fear the human eye, (I once stared a bear out of countenance,- what an ill-bred fellow he must have thought me!) but not half so much as a villain does; therefore, when Maloney spoke, he invariably directed his gaze to where Mr. Warburton sat; not indeed but that the old gen- tleman's eyes were fixed upon him with a very fierce ex- pression, or that he had not, more than once, very audibly expressed his intention to " hire the chaise," but the old gentleman had, with the assistance of several butts of clar- et, innumerable bottles of port, and divers adjuncts, raised a respectable and numerous family of carbuncles and grog blossoms in the neighborhood of his nose, which almost completely intercepted all view of his eyes; indeed, a per- son of nervous temperament could not long look at Billy Wharburton's nose without experiencing an uneasy idea that it was about to explode. A botanist can tell the age of a tree by its rings; a geologist, the geological period of a rock, by the strata in which it is found,- I wonder, could any of those gentlemen have told the age of Billy's nose, by the strata of pimples under which it lay. "Have you been informed," said Mr. Darcy, Iagain ad- dressing Maloney, " of the nature of the charges against you?" "I was told nothing, your honor," he replied; '"I came here last night of my own free will and accord, and the first 18    2S4      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. thing the sergeant did was to put these handcuffs upon me." "What was your object in coming here?" "I d as live tell your honors in private," said Maloney, glancing at the police. Mr. Darcy was about to direct the latter to withdraw when Godfrey Daly whispered to him, '"You are quite right, Daly," said the former gentleman. " It is right to tell you," said Mr. Daly-addressing Malo. ney--" that anything you now say will be taken down and used against you, if necessary, in another place. You are charged, with others, in conspiring to murder the late Mr. Philip O'Roarke. We have evidence which goes to show that you were the suggester and prime mover of that busi- ness. We are at no loss to know your object in coming here this morning, at the hour you did; but it is useless-for you to suppose that any disclosures you may now make will do aught but criminate yourself. I tell you, you shall not have an opportunity of giving evidence against your dupes, and thereby escaping yourself; therefore, anything you have to say, I advise you to keep for your defence. By no possibility -can it avail you here. You have played your bloody game and lost it." As Maloney listened to these stern words, the self-posses- sion he had endeavored to assume entirely forsook him. He threw himself upon his knees, and, in the most abject manner, whined for mercy-that he was a stranger, and that there was a conspiracy against him." "And what the devil brought you to this country?." ex- claimed old Warburton. "Eh, answer that, if you can." "You forget, my friend," said Mr. Daly, aside; " that I have just cautioned him against saying anything, unless at his peril." But Maloney did not appear to have heard the question; he still remained on his knees, craving mercy, and offering' to reveal all if they would promise it to him. But his rav- ings were unheeded. The softest heart there was Godfrey Daly's. One that, in very tenderness, could vie with the mnost gentle; and yet it was as adamant to the appeal of the kneeling villian. His proud lip curled with disdain, as he remarked to Mr. Darcy,   THE DALYS OR DALYSTOWN.      285 c( What a coward, and yet a murderer by, profession. Policeman, bring in Bernard Casey." At the sound of this name Maloney jumped up from his knees, whilst his eyes dilated, and his teeth closed with a chattering sound, and Wvhen the cripple entered he scowled upon him from under his heavy, knitted eyebrows. But Barney avoided not his look. On the contrary, he seemed to court it, and when their eyes met the cripple smiled. The expression was the same as that with which old Casey had disconcerted Maloney, on the night we first met with them in the cabin of the former. Maloney was the first to withdraw his gaze. "It's the same," he muttered; " the very same, oh! what came over me at all, not to be warned by it." "Casey," said Mr. Darcy, "do you know this man?" Barney-the smile still parting his thin lips-limped over to where Maloney stood. Casting his eyes down to the feet of the prisoner, he raised them slowly up, inch by inch, somewhat like the way a gourmand might look along the ribs of a stall-fed ox. "It is John Maloney, sir,"' he replied. "The last time I saw you, Mr. Maloney, there were no handcuffs on you, as this cut on my head will prove." "Oh, you Judas!" growled Maloney, "Judas back to you,5 replied the cripple, striking the stick which he used to assist him in walking, sharply upon the ground, "Judas, back to you, again. What brought you here, last night?2" "Silence" said Mr. Darcy. "Policeman keep order." The man addressed made Barney return to where he had been. a"Is this the man," said Mr. Darcy, addressing the cripple, "whom you have mentioned, as proposing the murder of the late Mr. O'Roarke?" ' The same, your honor." "That will do. Policemen, remove the witness." TThe broken gun was now produced, and after being cau- tioned, itt the usual way, Maloney was asked if he recog- nized it. He denied all knowledge of it. Cassidy and Mur- phy were then produced. They repeated their former state- ments, this time identifying Maloney, as the man from whom they received the gun.   286      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. As the latter listened to this fresh evidence against him, a stupor seemed to seize upon his senses-no doubt, the para- lysis of fear-his head dropped upon his chest, and when the police were ordered to witdraw him, one of them had to shake him by the arm, to engage his attention. When he felt the man's touch he started and looked about him, like one suddenly awakened; then he made a step forward, to where the magistrate sat, whilst big drops burst upon his forehead, which he endeavored to wipe off with his mana. cled hands. "My God! gentlemen,' he exclaimed, "what are you going to do with me 2" "You will be committed to Galway jail, to abide your trial," answered the chairman. "Won't you hear what I have to say?" "Not unless to use it against you at your trial, if it is any confession you wish to make,--if it is anything in your defence, reserve it until then." "By Him that made me," exclaimed Maloney, " it was Inspector Parker, of Nenagh, that advised me to come to Connaught, and told me that the government would be glad to get any information I could make out for them; and that 1 would be held harmless." "Ha!" exclaimed Godfrey Daly. "Can this be true?" "It matters little whether it is or not," said another mag- itirate, (a Mr. L'Estrange, a great upholder of the purity of government, having got some crumbs from the Castle table, for two of his sons,) "f or this Parker was dismissed some time ago, by the government, for most infamous con- duct." "Yes-yes, I remember," replied Mr. Daly, "but, can you tell me, sir, why this Parker was not indicted, as well as dismissed?" "He lihas fled," answered the gentleman. "But why was he not indicted in the first instance, instead of being merely notified that he was dismissed?" "I can't tell you; I don't know," replied ir. L'Estrange. " Nor I," said Mr. Daly. "Some of the police have been arrested, and are to be prosecuted." 4   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      287 "Ah, yes," answered Mr. Daly. "The blind, working tool is always sacrificed, when he makes a mistake." "I do not understand you," said L'Estrange. 'a How should you?" answered the other, "you who believe in the purity of a paternal government. Is not that the proper expression, Mr. L'Estrange?"As for me, I believe in ,put not your trust in Princes.' " Mr. L'Estrange's face flushed, but he remained silent; lihe cared not, even in defence of his paternal government, to risk a quarrel with Godfrey Daly. "We had better, I think," said Mr. Darcy," have the pris- oner removed. You, Cassidy and Murphy, will remain below stairs, until your depositions are drawn up." Maloney was then taken from the room; the witnesses and police retired, and the magistrates were left alone. Godfrey Daly had been lying back in his chair for the last few minutes; his eyes closed, and the color, that excite- ment had given to his face, passed away. As he thus reclined, one could remark that he had altered much, even within a few weeks. Mr. L'Estrange, who had been looking at him, was shocked by the almost ghastly expression of his face, and being a good-hearted man, he said, "Have you been ill of late, Mr. Daly? I don't think you look so well, that is quite so well, as when I last had the pleasure of seeing you. I hope you are not complaining? Godfrey Daly raised himself, as he answered. "Thank you, Mr. L'Estrange, for your kind enquiry, I am not ill, that I know of, and yet"-- . He paused, and then added: "I am getting old, sir, and somehow have failed to provide myself with the drag that suchjovial fellows as my friend Warburton, here, can put upon the wheel as it goes down hill. This business we have just been engaged in has worried and exhausted me. I fear too," he added, with a sweet smile, " it has made me cross and irritable; if so, and if 1 have said anything to annoy you, you will forgive me, and be generous enough to attribute it to the infirmities of an old man." As he spoke, he rose from his chair, and extended his hand to Mr. L'Estrange, which the latter warmly shook. "So, Parker has escaped," said old Mr. Warburton. "Egad, I'm sorry for it. I'd like to hire a chaise to see him hanged."   288      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Why Billy," exclaimed Mr. Daly, laughing, "you are getting quite blood-thirsty. Ah, my old friend, were :II the villains that prowl and feed upon this little island of ours to get their deserts, and your newly-acquired taste to con. tinue; your whole property would go in carriage hire. Have we not concluded, Darcy?" "Yes; nothing remains but to draw up the depositions, and have them sworn to by the witnesses. I will write to the law adviser of the crown, to know if Casey will be admit. ted as a crown witness; it is only a mere matter of form." '; What will I do with old Casey, your worship, and the old woman, who came in about half an hour ago, being afraid to stop in the house alone ." said Sergeant Murphy, entering the room. "Pack the whole family off to T--," answered Mr. Darcy. I'll give you a note to the Sub-Inspector. One of your men writes a good hand, does he not?" "Yes, sir." "Send him here, he must act as our clerk." The depositions of the witnesses were drawn up and sworn to, and shortly afterwards the magistrates separated. That evening, Barney and his venerable relatives put up at very comfortable quarters, in the town of T--, and the next morning, long before daylight, Maloney was on his way to the county jail, fully committed on the charge of murder. Warrants were also issued against all the persons whom Barney had mentioned, as being at his grandfather's, on the night that O'Roarke's murder was planned. As Sergeant Murphy had judged, the cripple had scarce- ly given himself up to the police, when the news spread through the country, causing the utmost consternation among the members of the ribbon lodge. Indeed, Maloney must, necessarily, have heard it, previous to his visit to the police barrack, had he not, for obvious reasons, withdrawn him- self altogether from his usual haunts. Amongst others, James Delany had early information of the fact. He had bitterly repented of having been led to join the illegal so- ciety, when Maloney's designs and character became par- tially revealed to him. As he had truly said, on the night that O'Roarke's murder was first proposed, he joined, sup-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      289 posing that there was going to be a general rebellion in the country; or, as he expressed it, "a fair stand up fight." But when he saw this grand delusion (always a cherished love in the heart of an Irish peasant,) dwindle into mid- night assassination, his nature revolted from such acts, and from that night out, neither threats or persuasion could induce him to enter the ribbon lodge, or take part in its proceedings. Nay, more, he would have warned O'Roarke, of his danger, did he know how to do so without incurring the risk of being branded as an informer; and, be it remem- bered, that there is no name under heaven an Irish peasant dreads so much to incur,or holds in such abhorence; yet, his conscience made him wretched. At length he hit upon a plan. "I will tell the priest about it," he thought, "I can trust him, and he will warn O'Roarke." But this good resolve came too late; for the very day it was formed, O'Roarke was murdered. Delany had not re- covered from the shock which this event gave to him, when he heard of the cripple's treachery, and never, through a long lifetime, did the horrors of the night on which he heard it, pass from his mind. Did a door or window shake, it was armed men entering to drag him to jail. A withered leaf, driven by the night wind against the window, was a friend- ly hand tapping, to warn him of his danger. Once the thought crossed his mind, that Barney might not betray him; but he quickly rejected it. When was an informer known to keep faith with one more than another, and the cripple was with them that would soon pick it out of him." At length he resolved upon flight; and arose from the bed he had been restlessly tossing on for hours. "It will break the old people's hearts," he murmured, as he groped in the dark for his clothes; but it would kill them all out on the spot, to see me dragged before their eyes to jail, (he was an only child). May God forgive me," he continued. "I'll cali on Luke Murphy, as I pass, and send him here to break it' to them. May God look down on them this dark day. Oh! father, dear, is this the way all your good advice is gone astray? Oh! mother, dear, after all your love, have I brought sorrow to your fond heart, and shame to your gray hairs?"   290      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. It was now the gray of the morning, and taking his shoes in his hand, he stole softly into the room in which his father and mother slept; as he bent over them, his stifled sobs awakened the old man.  "Who's there?" he asked. "It's I, father," answered his son, "I forgot something in the room, here." "What makes you get up so early, James dear .?" "H have a toothache, father. Hush, don't waken my mother, for God's sake." But the old woman was already awake. "What's the matter, alannah machree?"* she said, "your voice is changed. Are you sick, asthore?" "No, mother, no," he replied. "Go to sleep; it wants a good hour of sunrise, yet. There, I have what I was look- ing for." Fearing to trust himself a moment longer in the room, he hurried out, and, closing the door after him, fell upon his knees on the outside. "God be with you, dear father," he murmured, with clasped hands, as one in prayer; "God be with you, loving mother!--God be with you!--God be with you! Oh! Mother of God, comfort them this day." He then returned to his own room and took some money from a box; then, waving his hand wildly towards his father's room, he left the house. He crossed the fields rap- idly, yet pausing from time to time to look back at his home. At such times he would stretch forth his hands towards it and then, turning, resume his flight. When he had got about two miles from his father's house he slackened his pace. The sun had just risen, and, for the first time in his life, James Delany dreaded its blessed light; and yet he paused and looked at it with strange, undefined feelings of admiration ;--it appeared so majestically grand, so calmly powerful, as it "walked the heavens," looking down upon him so weak, so forlorn and cast Sway. Suddenly he heard his name called, and, starting, sprang forward to resume his flight; as he did so, he turned his head and saw a boy running after him. * Child of my heart..   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      291 "It's Mickey Curley," he said, stopping. "I must tell him not to say anything about meeting me." The boy soon came up with him. "Faith, James," he said, "I believe its coorsing a hare you war; for when you stopped you raised your head just as Mr. Doolan's dogs do when they lose her." , What do you want, Mickey?" asked James. "I can't wait now; and, Mickey, for your life, don't tell any one you saw me passing this way." "I have a letter for you, James," answered the boy, "that Barney Casey gave me yesterday evening; he told me to bring it to you at once, and to put it into your own hands; but yesterday evening was so wet that I could not get over, and I was making an early start this morning when--" James Delany did not wait for him to finish what he was about to say, but snatched a piece of folded paper from his hand and read: "When all the rest are cursing me, James, don't you join them; nor don't be afraid when you hear what I done. I will die sooner than let your name cross my lips. If I didn't do it Maloney would. It was his in- tention, James, from first to last, and if he had the start of me it would be worse for you, and maybe for others. God be with you, James." There was no name to the letter. James Delany, through very weakness, sat down upon the grass and wiped his heated face. His first thought, af- ter reading the letter, was of Barney, and not of himself. "Poor, lost creature," he murmured, " he has great feel- ing, after all! True enough, it would be a different story with me if Maloney was in his place; and by the blessed light, Barney is right. I never saw it before, but it was to earn a reward he got up all this disturbance in the country. Mickey," he continued, aloud, "you're a blessed sight to me this morning. Here's half a crown for you; come with me and I'll give you a good breakfast; I know I can trust you, Mickey, and that you'll not tell any one of this letter, or who gave it to you." "Put up your money, James," replied the boy; "I can be as true as him that wrote that letter, anyhow, without taking money for it."   uz2      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.  "Oh! you misunderstand me, Mickey, entirely," answered James. "It was not as a bribe I offered you the money, as but to reward you for the good news you stopped me with i this morning, and bekase I can afford to part with it, and th: you want it, my poor boy. Sure I know if you were false, a e king's ransom could not make you true. You will come   - home with me anyhow, for I have a little job for you, *  Mickey," he added, as he jumped up from the ground with  0 sudden, wild energy, "you're the finest boy that ever flew. y I'm going back to the old father and mother I thought I'd U' never lay my eyes on again."    CHAPTER XXII.              re It is time I should speak of Tim O'Roarke. The bodies t of his father and Lorkin, were found by some persons, re- el turning late from the race course, and a messenger was dis-  patched on horseback to the town of T , for Tim; but  c before he reached home, the police had arrived at the scene el of the murder, and refused to allow O'Roarke's body to be removed, until the arrival of the coroner. So the son g remained all night, together with some friends, who had h accompanied him from T   , by the side of his dead  tl father. Tim, with all his silliness, was not devoid of natu- h ral feeling, and had loved his father; perhaps he was the f( only one on earth who respected him. It was but natural b that the stronger nature of the deceased should have im- t pressed itself upon the mind of his weak son, and that cus- tom and want of thought should have made the latter blind g to his father's unmerciful and unjust acts. To Tim, he had el been a kind and indulgent parent enough; and it was im-  b   THE DALYYS  ' UALY 'LXbW^.    - possible to witness the unaffected grief of the young man, as he kept his sad watch, without feeling compassion for him, and thinking better of him. The following morning the coroner arrived, and a jury being sworn, their verdict recorded:  "That the deceased, Philip O'Roarke, was mur- dered by Bryan Lorkin, also deceased; and that the said Bryan Lorkin had come by his death from a wound, sup- posed to have been inflicted on him, by the said Philip 0'Roarke, in justifiable defense of his life." After which, O'Roarke's body was removed to his house, whilst that of the unfortunate Lorkin was given up to the police. Those who had accompanied Tim from the town of T---, remained at Lake View until after the funeral, which took place on the second morning after his death, before day- light, as it was justly feared that the body of the murdered man could not be conveyed to the churchyard at a later hour without being insulted. The funeral over, Tim re- turned alone to Lake View. Up to this, horror and grief had so stupefied him, that he had not thought of himself, or the great change his father's death would make in his cir- cumstances. It was not until he entered the house, on his return, that he became fully alive to the fact, that he was now master there, and owner of many a broad acre besides; then, visions of fat oxen, sheep, and bright gold coin, float- ed before his imagination, and the day had not waned into night, before horses, tilburys, high drags, tandems, &c. &c., came, like Queen Mab's chariot, galloping across his heat- ed brain It must not be supposed that thesethoughts entirely en- grossed his mind to the exclusion of all others, or that he had ceased to mourn for his father, ere yet the clay had set- tled on his bloody grave; on the contrary, as night fell, and he sat alone, in the dreary, ill-lighted parlor, his father's form, sitting in his accustomed place, seemed almost palpa- bly before him, and the young man, leaning his head upon the table, gave way to tears. Now, too, that he was alone, the recollection of his father's fate,-as he had seen him, with swollen and distorted features, stretched in his bloody clothes, his arms extended, and one hand dipped in the bloody pool which had flowed from his murderer's side (a  294      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. sight that filled some of those present with a superstitious horror, believing that heaven, itself; had thus made the murdered man bear evidence, in death, that the blood of the wretched Lorkin would cleave unto him); these things I say, now that he was alone, filled him with a creeping hor. ror, accompanied with intense fear for himself. He thought how soon the same fate might be his. "Why should they not murder one as well as the other, and who could guard himself against a midnight assassin? He never again should have an easy moment, in the accursed place." In truth, there was no danger of Tim, for there is a great difference between being hated, and despised; but he saw nothing of this now; and during the rest of that, to him, wretched night, fear took entire possession of him, to the exclusion of all other thoughts. He now regretted not hav- ing kept at least one of those who had remained with him, for the two nights past. During the long hours of the night, he remained awake, but, towards morning, worn out and exhausted, (for he had not slept since his father's death,) he fell asleep, and did not awake for some hours. When he did so, the sun was shining brightly into his room, in cheer' ful contrast with the darkness of the night before. "The morn is up again; the dewy morn, With breath all incense, and with cheek all bloom, Laughing the clouds away, with playful scorn, And living, as if earth contained no tomb." But, though Tim did not look upon the morning with a poet's eye, its light was, nevertheless, very pleasing to him; it quieted his nerves, enabling him to see that if there was danger in stopping at Lake View, there was no necessity that he should do so;-that he was his own master, and could go where he pleased. Then there came again, helter, skelter, through his silly brain, tilburys, horses, carriages, high drags, tandems, &c., &c., mixed up,]in a confused man- ner, with broken-hearted damsels, and an elegant young man, with auburn hair. Tim had written to his uncle, who was at the time in Dublin, acquainting him with the death of his father, and requesting him to come to Lakeview. The mail to-day brought him an answer to this letter, in which Mr. Lyons,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      295 pathetically lamented the death of his brother-in-law, and promised to be a father to Tim. Indeed, so distracted was the good man with grief, that on the very day he received his nephew's letter, he opened his day-book, ancl, in a fit of abstraction, wrote, "Receiving and reading a letter from Timothy O'Roarke, Esq., 3s. 4d., answering same, 3s. 4d. Six-and-eightpence,:' said the grief-stricken man, closing the book. "Poor Phil," he continued, raising his eyes, as he replaced it on the shelf, "I hope he is in heaven, I must be a father to his boy, and manage things for him; if I don't, some one else will pick him up." And swallow him, Mr. Lyons might have added i for, al- though Cuvier has overlooked all mention of the 'animal, it is a well-known fact, that six-and-eightpenny fathers de. vour their offspring. Mr. Lyons stated in his letter, something to the effect, that nothing but the stern command which duty held over him, could debar him of the sad consolation of attending the funeral of the deceased: "But term was going on, and he had two records in the list, and knew not the moment they might be called on." The fact was, Mr. Lyons felt it to be more profitable to attend to living clients (albeit, he was hurrying them to their graves with all his might,) thento be burying a dead brother-in-law. "If I neglect them," he soliloquized, as he placed a huge black seal upon his letter, "Some one else will be pick- ing them up, and there will be plenty to put poor Phil down." But he took especial care to promise to hasten to Lake View, the moment business would allow him to do so. "Do nothing, my dear Tim,'" he wrote, "until my arrival, you are young and inexperienced, and know nothing of the tVillainy of the world. Your poor father often told me to look after you, if anything should happen to him, rest his soul in glory, and I don't see," he artfully added, knowing Tim's weak point,- " why you nee'l bother your head with business, when you have more than enough to allow you to live as idle as the best of them. Out of pure respect for the memory of poor Phil, your father, and the great regard I have for yourself, I will take the burden of business on myself, and keep your money square."   296      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Mr. Lyons, although belonging to what is waggishy term. ed, a peaceful profession, was not deficient in military tac. tics so far as being able to change a solid square into a hollow one. "I will, with the blessing of God," he continued, "be with you in ten days. Lock up all your poor father's pa. pers, and what ever money there is the house in his strong box, and don't let any one look at it until I see you. Though you feel lonely and desolate, don't think of deserting the place at once. Maybe he'd be thinking of going into T-- to lodge," thought Lyons, and that d--n Leonard, the attor. ney, might come round him and pick him up. ' It would ruin you in the eyes of the gentry," the letter went on to say, " and remember, dear nephew, you are now in a posi- tion to rank with the best of them, (poor Phil never cared for such things;) so don't compromise yourself at the start." Tim read his uncle's letter with great satisfaction; it was the first recognition of his independence. "He does not see," he thought, "why I should not live as idle as the best of them ; neither do I. Even if I tried to bother my head with all the business my poor father attended to, I could never get through it. What do I want to make more mon- ey for, when I have enough? I wish my uncle was come, and I'd go up to Dublin; however, I'll take his advice, and wait for him here. There can't be much danger in staying for a few days." During the ensuing week, many of the gentry in the neighborhood, feeling sympathy for one who had met such a sudden and frightful calamity, called at Lake View; most of those merely left their cards with the young lady, who had, on a former interesting occasion, personated Emily Daly, and who now wondered " what the dickens the quali- ty meant by taking her from her business, and her hands full, to be handing her bits of pasteboard!" Amongst others, Godfrey Daly and his son, called. Tim received them with a kind of sulky grief; he had never iik- ed Henry; perhaps, despite the former's vanity, he felt his inferiority to young Daly, and Henry was one of the few voung men he had met with, whom he had not attempted to imitate, at one time or another. But since the day the   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      2'l  elder O'Roarke had returned from Dalystown, chafed and humiliated, from the contemptuous reception which his matrimonial proposal had received, and had visited his rage  on Tim, the latter actually hated both father and son.   i But Mr. Daly had good sense enough to make allowance for Tim's sulks, so he spoke to him kindly, and when about  to leave, told him that he would be happy to see him at   Dalystown. Punctual to his promise, Lyons arrived at Lake View within the time he had promised. It was a beautiful trait j of character in this gentleman, that in early life he had made a resolution, which he scrupulously adhered to ever afterwards- namely: never to break a promise it was his interest to keep, and never to keep a promise it was his in- I terest to break. By the time he arrived, Tim's grief was near- i ly worn out, which saved his uncle the trouble of uncork- ing the tears he had been brewing in the coach, as he came  along. "If he doesn't cry," thought Mr Lyons, "I don't see why I should."' Perhaps it was as well for Tim, that his uncle dispensed with this little piece of acting, as otherwise he would, very  likely, have made a charge for expended feelings.      The good man had formed many little innocent plans to   1 save Tim, from the very commencement, the trouble of look- X ing after his own business, lest he might acquire a taste for doing so; but, to his great satisfaction, he found that his nephew had resolved " to cut the shop," as he expressed it, I and lead, henceforth, the life of an idle gentleman.    i "I will let this place, uncle," he said, as they sat drinking  their punch, after dinner, " and every acre I have; and go live some place where I can enjoy life."          i "I think you are quite right, my boy," replied Lyons. "What good did it do poor Phil, your father,- God be good to him?"Here Mr. Lyons gulped down a large quan. tity of punch, which being both hot and strong, brought the tears to his eyes; he pulled out his handkerchief and said, in a little parenthesis, "I can't help crying when I think of him. But, as I was saying, when my feelings got the better of me, what good did it do your poor father to i slave himself the way he did,-see, its all after him now." il   298      THE DALYS OF DALYSTO N. "But it wouldn't," said Tim, with a low, cunning grin, if he didn't work for it." "By dad, you had me there, Tim," replied Lyons, return- ing the grin, " and sure you're all the gainer by it; but he had no occasion, this many a day, to slave himself, as he did, and you have none at all." cThat's my own opinion exactly, uncle. But how much do you think the poor guvner died worth?" "We can't tell exactly," replied Lyons, "until we look over the books, and get the stock valued, but I believe what, between the stock, outstanding mortgages, fee sim-. ple property and the interest poor Phil had in farms, you're worth every penny of sixty or seventy thousand pounds. I suppose you'll call an auction, as you're not going to stay in the country." "I'll sell every four footed beast I have in the world." " And the farms, what will you do with them?" "Give up those I have not much interest in and let the others." O"Upon my conscience, Tim, you're a cute bird," said Lyons, treating his nephew to another grin and himself tq a fresh tumbler of punch. "But; how long, uncle," asked Tim, " do you think it will take to arrange all this?" Mr. Lyons considered. He had not the slightest wish that Tim should take any part in the arrangement of his affairs. "Well, let me see," he said, "I think, after six months, we might be able to--" But Tim interrupted him. "Six months!" he exclaimed, "and will I have to remain here all that time?" "There is no occasion in life for you to do so; give me a power of attorney to act for you, and you may go where you please. (To the devil, he might, have said, with great truth.) Aye, and do as you .please. Devil a man you'll meet but will be ready to shake the hand off you, and as for the women, all I say is, I hope you'll have compassion on the young ones, and guard against the old ones, that will be laying all kinds of traps to catch you for their dauth- ters" Tim ran his fingers through his red locks, and looked down complacently at his legs.   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWNI      299 ut Bye-the-bye,s' continued his uncle, " what was it that came between your father and old Daly, about a month ago? I had a letter from poor Phil telling me to call in the money that he had on Daly's property, and not to spare him."  ( I believe," replied Tim, getting somewhat red in the face, " that Daly treated him with great disrespect the last time he called at Dalystown. It was about the time he wrote to you." "Aye," said Lyons, ";that must be it. Well, my son, (how natural that word comes to me,)-it's from you I am now to receive my instructions. What do you wish me to do? He pays heavy interest, Tim." "I don't care," replied Tim; " call in thejnoney and if he doesn't pay it, which he won't nor can't, proceed against him." "' Very well," answered Lyons, as he rubbed his hands in anticipation of long bills of costs; "I have a few little mat- ters of my own that fwill lead off with. But you were say- ing that you would not like to remain here while we are plutting a face on your affairs." "No, not if it will take so long as you say. But there's the auction, uncle," Tim continued-it being, in his eyes, the then most prominent feature in Mr. Lyons' figurative face, as by it he could at once realize a large sum of ready money, " that canocome off without much delay?" "That aself will take time," replied Lyons. "We must take out administration for you. The law is slow, my son, beautifully slow, but sure. Your poor father,- God be good to him, this night,-didn't leave the house with- out money." "There's two hundred pounds in the house," said Tim. "That will do you, for the present, if you want to leave at once; and indeed, I do not wonder that you're in a hurry out of this place. I don't wan't to touch a penny of your ready money, for all the trouble 'll have." "Where would you advise me to go, uncle?" "Most young gentlemen go see foreign parts," answered Lyons. 19   300      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "More fools they," said Tim. c"Faith, I' no wish to run the risk of being eaten by the blacks." "There's not blacks in all parts, Tim." "More or less," replied the young gentleman. "They're in Asia, Africa, and the Antipathies." "They're France." suggested Lyons. "Do you want me to turn my inside out, with living on hashed frogs " replied his nephew. "Devil a much choice in being served up decently at once, or killing yourelf on such unnatural diet." Mr. Lyons regretted that his limited geographical knowl- edge did not enable him to find out a country, somewhat distant, to suit Tim's taste. "It's quare houghth, he thought, if "'they are all black, harring the French. But it won't do to press him ; he might stag. Maybe your'e right enough Tim," he said aloud, " but what need you go farther than Dublin, to see the heights of real elegant life? Ah, that's the place for fun, Tim. Every tecond shop a shoemaker's, there's such a power of shoes tat- tered to fritters, with the dancing they have in every house." i; And perhaps I could get to the castle, uncle ." "Nothing more likely, and if you do, mind I'm telling you, that the Lord Lieutenant will take great notice 'of you, in consequence of what happened,-God guide us." Ten days after this, Tim found himself in Dublin, whilst Mr. Lyons, in his musty little office, in Galway, commenced to put the promised face" on the affairs of his nephew; men- tally resolving to appropriate to himself, at some future day, one of its fat cheeks, and mayhap, the nose itself. ',   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       301 CHAPTER XXIII. When looking over the papers confided to me, it has al. ways given me great pleasure to light upon those passages which relate, almost exclusively, to the Dalystown fam- ily. At such times, I am no longer in my rude shanty, onl the inhospitable shores of Lake Superior, but in the old par- lor of Dalystown, sitting with the old man, by its cheerful fire, watching the red embers as they fall, like the high hopes of youth, into their ashy grave; while, in imagina- tion, I listen to 1Mr. Daly's stories of by-gone days, or to, Emily's sweet voice, as she sings the plaintive melodies of my beloved land. If no ruder guest than the old doctorl enters, he is most welcome; the fire burns brighter in his presence, and the saddest of those airs has notes of joy mingling with its wild lament. That no member of the Dalystown family was free from anxiety and care, is very true; yet, up to the period I have now to treat of, those little family re-unions, at the close of day, were mlarked with tranquil happiness, and though, perchance, sad thoughts were never very distant, they but enhanced those precious moments, snatched from care, as evening's shadows add, by' contrast, to the beauty of the foliage, which the glory of the setting sun still rests upon. But after O'Roarke's last visit to Dalystown, both Henry and Emily remarked a great change in their father. He scarcely ever smiled now,-and how open and winning- was the smile, that, with loving efforts, they strove to win back! In vain would Henry converse in the most cheerful tones, which were, alas, very foreign to his heart. In vain would Emaily carol her gayest airs, as she tripped by his door. H-Ier voice, that was wont to fill hs leart- with joy, now seemed but to give, him pain. At timnes, when it reached his ears, as he sat alone in his study, his lips would quiver, and his fevered hand be pressed against his eyes, and some-   302      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. times, as the sweet voice died away in the distance, the hot tears of the care worn gentleman found their way be- tween his thin fingers, and, falling on the book before him, blistered its page. Emily, too, poor child! How often have those gentle eyes of thile filled with tears, even when thy song was the gayest; how often has that fair, swelling throat rebelled against thy loving heart, until the song thou wouldst have had all joy, died away in stifled sobs. There is an old saying, frequently verified, 'i That misfor. tunes never come alone." One thing is certain, creditors never do; they hunt in packs, like wolves, and are quite as ravenous. O'Roarke was not the only one of Mr. Daly's creditors who was anxious to call in his money. In cases of the kind, at the time I write of, when a landed 'propri- etor got into difficulties, attorneys pricked up their ears;- like the war horse, "they scented the battle afar off'." Well, it is written, so let it remain; but it is a very unsuit. able metaphor; rather, like carrion crows, flapping their, dusky wings over the body they are impatient to tear with their filthy beaks. Then commenced a very spirited game. of foot ball, in which the debtor's property was the ball, and the attorneys were the players. At each kick, a slice catme off, hence the saying, " an attorney is sure to skin you," and so it went rolling, from one to another, kick, kick, kick, until, as a general thing, there was no portion of it left for tli reditors. What of that? The attorneys, from the corn. mencement, never intended that there should. Nay, often, ' at the conclusion of the game, they turned round on those selfsame clients, who had been looking on, with watery moui hs, and kicked them, too, into pauperism.   I About this time a mortgage, for a large amount, became due on the Dalvstown property, and it was very doubtful if the holder would extend the time for payment. Petty debts, too, were frequently coming in, and Godfrey Daly's proud nature was almost chafed to madness, when he found himself, as was too often the case, unable to discharge thlleln.  Nothing perhaps pained him more than the little retrench- ments he saw his children make, even in their dress, although they endeavored to conceal them from him.   THE. DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      303 Henry, at one time, proposed to sell his hunter, but his father looked so sad and wretched, when he mentioned it, that he abandoned the idea, and went to a hunt-meet on the following day, apparently in very boisterous humor, as he threatened to horsewhip Emily, for not having breakfast earlier for him; and on his return, in the evening, he gave a glowing description of the splendid run they had. While Ienry was speaking, Emily sat a little apart, watching her father's face; and when she saw how sad it remained, and how far his mind was from the theme that was wont to in- terest him so much, she had to leave the room to conceal her tears. That night, after Henry had retired to rest, his sister knocked at his room door, and whence opened it, she flung herself into his arms. '"Oh Henry," sobbed the poor girl, " is 'not papa greatly changed; even your description of the hunt, to-day, could not make him smile." Thus wearily passed the winter months, and those winter nights, so cheerful of old. And what of Rose: O'Donnell? Had Henry ceased to think of her? -  I fear so poor a, chronicler am I, selecting from my mate- rials as I go along, without due regard to order or effect, I may have injured his character with my fair readers; for I have given no description of how he received the news, on his retuirn home, of Rose's second departure for England. But, in defence of myself, I must say I had little to record; least of all a scene. Her aunt's illness was cause, sufficient in itself, for the step; but had it never existed, Henry felt that she would have gone. And yet, he knew that she lov- ed him, and that her love would ever be his; for the heart ithat could sacrifice itself to duty, was incapable of change. So he hid his treasure and his sorrow in his own breast; both were too deep and sacred for noisy, vulgar grief, or hopeless despair. His love for Rose O'Donnell, devoid of the grossness of earth, mingled with his thoughts of heaven, and would have triumphed over death itself. Since her departure, she had written twice to Emily. Her last letter announced the perfect recovery of her aunt; but   304      sHE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. no mention was made, of Rose's having any intention to re- turn to Dalystown. This did not surprise her lover; he felt perfectly sure, all along, that she had not intended to do so, nnd if there existed no obstacle to their loves but the Irish Chlannel, it could be easily crossed. But the evidentdecline of his father's health banished, for a time, all thoughts of love. It would have been an actual relief to his children, had Mr. Daly complained of illness. In such a case, there would be something tangible, something which might be reached; but, to see his thin face grow thinner, his steps more lan- guid, his interest, in all that once interested him, lessen, day by day, and yet to hear his calm, melancholy voice, reply to their anxious enquiries, "I am well, quite well, dears," was something inexpressibly sad. At times, when he no- ticed the sorrowful looks of his children, he would endeavor to rally. One night in particular, he seemed quite himself again. He rallied Henry on some unsuccessful shooting of the latter's on the previous d&y; and, oh, joy of joys! h1 called Emily, "' pussy!-bold pussy!!-wicked pussy!!! The poor girl was wild with joy. Hope,-never very dis: tInt from the young,-returned to her, making the old, parlor wear again the cheerful look it didin the happy days gone by. She sang, played, laughed, and would scarcely believe the old family clock, when it announced the late- ness of the hour; but, as from her infancy, she had looked upon it as an infallible oracle, it would be rank heresy to doubt it now. So, with a light step, she crossed the room to give her father his nightly kiss. She had never missed doing so since the time when, with mighty efforts, she clam- bered up his knee. Playfully pushing back his white hail; she said, "I must get two, to-night!" But, as her lips pressed the old man's cheek, a tear started from his eye and trickled to her face--t her heart. Me- clianically, she said: "Good night, and blessing, papa." "Good night, and may God Almighty bless you, my dar- ling," replied Mr. Daly, as he folded her in his arms. She glided from them, and silently left the room; but, as she ascended the stairs her strength failed her, and she had to sit down on one of the steps. Although for some time past   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      305 sorrow was no stranger to her young heart, yet the sudden change from revived hope to despondency, overpowered her. Hler maid, on coming down stairs, was shocked to find her young mistress sitting there, looking so pale and weak. "What's the matter, Miss Daly?" she asked. "Oh! Miss Emily, what has happened? you look so pale." '4 Nothing, Mary,' she replied; "I believe I have been sitting up too late; I found myself a little giddy and sat down to rest. Give me your arm, Mary, and I will go to my room." "Will I call Mr. Henry, or the master, Miss?" "Nonsense, yod silly girl. I'm  now quite well. You must not say a word about it to either of them." Assisted by the servant, she reached her room. "Remain, Mary," she said, " until I say a few prayers, you can then assist me to undress." "I don't like leaving you at all, to-night, Miss Emily," said the girl. "Nonsense, you would only keep me awake, coming over every ten minutes to see if I was comfortable. If I was really sick, Mary, I would not part with you, for I know, of old, what a kind nurse you are." Not until the girl had retired, did Emily give way to her tears, and the day was breaking before she had sobbed her- self to sleep. The next day was gloomy and damp, and Mr. Daly had remained a long time standing in a field which le was get- ting plowed-(it was now the first week in March)-and when he came into dinner he complained of cold. The fol- lowing morning he was quite hoarse, and it was evident from the shivering feel he experienced, that he had got a severe cold. However, there were no symptoms to cause alarm, but quite enough to make Emily insist upon nursing him. "You must bathe your feet to-night, papa," she said, "and if you are not quite well in the morning we will send for Dr. Kelly." "Dr. Kelly I my love," answered Mr. Daly, "why, Emily, . the doctor would laugh at us!" "Let him, papa. I want to hear his laugh; it would do me good."     306      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Well, my love," said her father, " we will see about it in the morning." When the morning arrived, Mr. Daly was still unwell'. but, though scarcely indisposed enough to keep his room, Emily would not hear of his leaving it. She formed a little conspiracy which she intended to make Doctor Kelly a party to, and now confided to Henry. "You will ride over to the Grove," she said to the latter, "and tell Doctor Kelly how dispirited, how broken-hearted papa has become of late. This little cold is a good excuse to get him, if possible, not to think of all this harassing business for a few days. Heaven knows," she continued, ", I do not believe the worst bodily ailment could be so bad as the mental misery we see him suffer. As long as we can keep him in his room he must not hear anything to fret him;--oh! not one of those odious letters shall go near him. It is such a good opportunity, too, for the doctor to speak to him and advise him; he knows so well how to scold and comfort at the same time. And I too, Henry, think, when I have papa all alone to myself, when I am nursing him, I will have courage to tell him I know not ex- actly what, but something about his having us to love him; that no one can take from him our love; and that 'we want nothing, care for nothing, but to see him happy. I have often gone to the study, lately, to say something like this to poor papa, but something always made me lose courage; one time I would find him poring' over papers, his face al- most stern; at another, sitting so sad and abstracted that he did not hear me entering, and I have stolen out again unperceived, fearing to trust my voice to speak." "Poor sister," said Henry, smoothing her hair, as she nestled into him. "But now," she continued, " it will be quite different, for while I am fussing about the room, making believe (as the doctor says,) that I am a great nurse, I will find time to tell him all my heart is full of." As soon as Henry had taken his departure for the Grove, Emily returned to her father. The first question he asked, on her entering the room, was, "Any letters, Emily. "   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN. .     807 "No, papa,?' she replied, " not one. See the way you have tossed these clothes, that I had so nicely tucked in. You will please remember that I am your nurse, and intend to be very cross, and scold frightfully." "But, Emily;JI must get up; and, with all respect to your judgment, and great experience in such matters," "No sneering, papa," she said, interrupting him, and threatening him with her finger. iWell, seriously love, it would only injure and weaken me, to remain in bed all day." "But I don't intend that you shall, that is, if you are very good and obedient. Mary is coming in to light your fire, and I am going to give you a light breakfast of toast and tea, after which, you may get up, and be ready to receive Dr. Kelly." "Oh, Emily, it was foolish of you to send for him." "Very, papa, he is such a horrid man, and will have so much objection to come and sit with you for half an hour. Come in, Mary. That is right, let me see what a bright fire you will make, it is a sign, you know, of a merry sweetheart. will be back in a moment, papa," and off she tripped from the room. In a few minltes she was back, bearing a small tray cov- ered with a white napkin, on which was laid a plate of dry toast, cup, &c., and a diminutive teapot. "Mary," she said, " please move that table to the side of papa's bed. There, that will do. Did you ever see so fat a little teapot, papa? It has made me laugh all the way up stairs. It is old nurse's property, and she has had it, I don't know how many thousand years;--I assure you, her lend- ing it is a great mark of her esteem for you. She holds ours in utter contempt; and presented me with this one, when she saw me preparing your breakfast, as being worth a dozen such gewgaws for keeping the tea nice and warm. Wait until I prop up these pillows at your back. Now, let me throw this dressing gown over your shoulders. There, that will do, and now your majesty may eat." "I believe, pussy, you want to coax me into pretending to be sick." "Oh, no, papa; but these colds are so treacherous. I will   f 308      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. wheel your chair over to the fire, and here is one for the doctor. Where are your slippers? I will put them on the fender to warm them. Oh, papa, you have not eaten one bit of your nice toast." "I have no appetite, love," replied Mr. Daly, " but that cup of tea was very refreshing. , Tell nurse that I am much obliged to her, and am inclined to become a convert to her opinion." "I shall do so, it will make her quite proud. I will nor take away these things, and you can get up and dress. But don't be long, for I want to come back and sit with you by this cosy fire." By the time Mr. Daly was dressed, Emily had returned. Making him sit down in his arm chair, she placed a low stool beside it, for herself, and sitting down, she rested her hands on the old gentleman's knees, and looked up into his face. "How do you feel now, papa?." she asked. ' I feel very well, Emily," he replied, : I suppose I dare not say quite well, after all the fuss that you have made about me. But, Emily, love, you say that there were -no letters for me to-day ." "No indeed, papa." "Take care, madam nurse; is that a white lie .? I think I see a guilty blush starting to your face; yes, here it is, quite palpable, upon my word." "It is not there then, papa," she replied, "' for the reason you - think; for to-day, there have been no letters. But I want to speak to you about those letters, dearest papa, and all that is troubling you so much. This many a day I have longed to speak to you of these things, and if I do now, you won't feel vexed, dearest papa?" "No, no, darling. When was I vexed with you, pussy?" "Oh never, never! That is it, dearest papa. Why, then, should our happiness depend upon others? I know, papa, that you are embarrassed; that you owe a great deal of money to those people who are continually writing to you." Mr. Daly raised his hand, which had been resting on his child's head, and passed it across his forehead. "Oh! papa," said Emily stopping short, "' I am giving you pain."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      309 "No, no, love, go on." "Well, papa," she resumed, " do you remember telling us of a gentleman whom you knew in years past, who was great- ly embarrassed--how he left his place, gave it up to his creditors, and went, no one knew where? How, in years afterwards, he returned to his home, free of debt, and told you. that the thought of being able to do so had sustained him in his long exile." "I remember all this, love," replied her father. "But I am too old for such hopes. Too old, ever to see them real- ized." "Oh, papa, your case is quite different from this gentle- man's; I only mention it, because it has put a little plan into my liead. He went away, a solitary, lonely wanderer; were we to leave this place to-morrow, we would still be together." Mr. Daly started from his chair and paced the floor, with quick unsteady steps. His face flushed and then grew as pale as hers who witnessed the excitement her words had caused. "God pity me," she said, as she bowed her head upon the arm of the chair, "I thought to' comfort him; and what have I done.'" In a moment her father was by her side, and taking both her hands in his, he said: "Forgive me, darling, for so thoughtlessly frightening you. But I love the old place, Emily. Your words excited me for a moment; but see, love, I am now calm." He took his seat, as he spoke, and, stooping down, kissed her forehead.  "This little weakness,"'he continued, "has passed away. So tell me all you wish to say." "No, no," she replied, "I know not how to do it, and only fret you." "No, no, my child; speak, I conjure you. This phantom has been before me, for many a weary day. I felt that it would, one day, take the form of words, and they never can come from gentler lips than thine." "Oh, papa, I dare not." "Nay, my child, the worst is spoken--' If we leave this place.' Tell me, darling, what antidote had your loving heart dreamed of, for so bitter a draught? .'   310      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Have I not said it? We go together." "Ah, whither love?" "Father," she answered, " think not that I do not love this place; that there is a flower, tree, or withered shrub in it, that is not dear to me; yet, so that you are with me, I care not whither." She took his hand, as she spoke, as if, thus armed, she was ready, even at the moment, to go forth into the wide, strange world. Mr. Dalv pressed the little hand he held. "But I do not speak of leaving Dalystown, never to re. turn," she continued, " but of leaving it, and getting rid of those horses, servants and thousand other expenses which seem to us necessaries here. Henry said the other day, that what would be penury here, would be sufficient for comfort elsewhere." "That is true enough, my love," said Mr. Daly. "How often too, papa," she continued, "have I heard you say, that you would like to travel with Henry and myself through those countries you have visited in your youth; yet, to do so, you would have to leave Dalystown for many a long day., But we can do better than this; we can go to some quiet place, where we will be happy- oh, so happy--for then those people will'cease to perse. cute you, and the very thought that you are leaving naught undone to pay them, will bring peace to your mind, and our old happy days will return to us. You asked me where we should go to; well, as you are so good a papa as to listen to your poor pussy, I will tell you ; I have planned all about it. It is to be a sweet little place, not far from Dub- lin, and yet, not too near; but quite near enough for Henry to run up once in a while to serve his terms, until he is called to the bar. While he is away, you and I will spend our evenings castle building for him. I promise you, noth. ing less than a judgeship will satisfy us, and when he is admitted to the bar, in what dignity we will receive him; in what awe we will pretend to hold him. Counsellor Daly! Pray, most learned gentleman, how long will business allow you to remain down here 2 Do you find the scent of those flowers agreeable after the musty stuff bags] ti   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       3" Oh, papa, I picture him, to myself, coming down to us when term is over. First, he must go with you to see your improvements, for our new home shall have land attached to it; then in the evening, when we are sitting around the fire, he will tell us of his life ; of the clients he has already malde, and many a funny story to make us laugh. At first, he will speak modestly-of himself; but, by-and-by, his face will glow and his words become confident as he speaks of the goal he aims to reach, and, in the distance, appears a bright future, into which he is to lead you. papa; for that shall be his goal, his triumph, and his reward. Yes! in- that quiet home, sitting by its peaceful hearth, Henry, good, noble Henry, shall tell you how bravely he hopes to climb to fortune, until at no distant day, this, our old home, never forgotten, shall ring its thousand welcomes in your ears. And then, too, dearest papa, when Henry returns to the world, I will sit at your feet, as I do now, and all night long, I will sing for you, papa." As she ceased speaking, she bowed her head upon her  father's knee. When she had first spoken of leaving Dalystown, although 'her voice trembled, yet, there were no tears in her eyes; nor, did the sudden agony she saw her words had caused call them forth; yet, she wept now, completely vanquished by the scenes of tranquil happiness she had been depicting. i "Heaven pardon me," said Godfrey Daly, raising his child in his arms, "if I have, in my fretful sorrow, seemed un-. mindful of the treasures it has given to me. Oh! my dar- ling child, you have brought comfort to your father's heart. God has inspired you to speak thus." She looked timidly, joyfully, up at him. "This then, she said, " is no foolish dream of mine." "No, my child; I will consult with Henry and Dr. Kelly, about letting this place; and, if it be the will of God I ant never to see it more, welcome the humblest home to which I shall bear my children's love." Again, the fair head nestled in his bosom, and Godfrey Daly pressed his daughter to his heart. As he did so, the door opened, and Dr. Kelly and Henry entered. Emily left her father's arms, and went up to her brother. I        312      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. While she extended her hand to the doctor, she said: "Oh! Henry, I am so happy; come with me and leave papa and the doctor alone for a few minutes."  "But you are crying, Emily" said her brother. "And smiling, too, Hlenry," she answered, ' and the doc. tor will tell you that these are happy symptoms. Oh, doc. tor," she added playfully, as she led Henry from the room, you have come too late, I have cured papa." "What is the gipsy about to do now?" said the doctor, as he shook hands with Mr. Daly. "Henry tells me you have been complaining a little, Godfrey." "Oh, it is nothing but a slight cold, James. Emlly (may heaven bless nmy darling child!) would insist on sending for you; it as foolish of her to do so, but I am very glad now that you have come.? "Show me your tongue," said the doctor. "There is a contradiction here, between pulse and tongue; the one is going like a mill-race, and yet the other looks healthy e ;;ow for your skill, James, to account for this." "It requires no doctor's skill to do so, with the glence I got at that little gipsy's face to assist me. You and Em ly have been conversing on some subject, which has moved you both. This pulse comes from the heart, not the stomach, and my doctor's stuff would fail to reach it." G I)A aniel comie to judgment," said Mr. Daly, cheer fully. -Whaat think you, Jamies, of mylettingDalystownl' Doctor Kelly could scarcely believe that he heard ariglt, KWhat Godfrey Daly, speaking in a cheerful tone of lear. ing Dalystown (." "I surprise you," continued Mr. Daly, "but, you should have heard Emlily. Such wise and good reasons has sloe given for the step, interwoven in such a flowery net of hoipe love, and peace, that the misery of being driven hence, which has followed me like a dark shadow, lost its glooy coloring, coiling in suoh a guise." He thell reported what ily had bee n sayinLL. And now, doctor," he answered ^what think you of all this?." Doctor Kelly had listened attentively to his friend, and not until a few luomenlts had elapsed, did he reply, thn not directly, to Mr. Daly's question.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      313 "The dear girl shames us all, Godfrey," he at length said. "So wise, so loving, and so good." "But what think you will Henry say?" asked Mr. Daly. "Even as Emily has said," replied the doctor. "Their loving natures are the same. Godfrey Daly, you are su- premely blessed in your children." There was a silence for a few moments. Possibly the old doctor was thinking of those he had lost, for he sighed more than once. But he immediately afterwards said, in his usual cheerful tone of voice: "By-the-bye, I must not forget that I have come here in my professional capacity. A doctor never quits a patient without doing something. Let me feel your pulse again. Yes, it is quiet now. Have you an appetite?" "No; for the last two days I have felt a nausea to all kinds of food." c; Have you slept well?" "Scarcely at all, last night. I had a dry, burning sensa- tion all over my body; and yet, did I move the clothes, I felt quite chilly." "Yes, you have a feverish cold. It is nothing when taken in time. You must bathe your feet to-night, and get lots of clothes over you in bed. Take a warm drink when lying down. Don't toss the clothes off; and nature will do the rest. To-morrow you must remain in bed until late in the afternoon, and then only sit up for a short time. The next day you may go hunt, if you please." "Ah! James, my hunting days are over." "So much th'e better for the safety of your neck. A man can be very happy without risking it twice a week,' "But Henry, doctor. Think you he will miss much those country sports if we decide on putting Emily's plan into execution?" "Not he.. He will only change the name and the des- cription of his game. Instead of foxes he will hunt men. Egad, I'm in doubt which are the greatest rogues. But,sa- riously speaking, when has Henry attended a hunt?,  "Not often, indeed, of late," replied Mr. Daly. "Just so," said the doctor. 'Godfrey, your children endeavor to hide from you their sufferings at witnessing th e w                            ' te   314      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. sorrow that presses upon you; the more so, as they feel powerless to alleviate it. Henry feels this keenly. Nay, it degrades him, in his own eyes, to think that he looks on idle at the embarrassments in which you are involved, with- out mating use of the talents and acquirements which nature and education have given to him to combat them. Emily must not get all the credit of this plan, it is equally Henry's. As we came over here to-day he begged of me to speak to you about leaving this place, and told me how anxious he was to be placed in some position where he could work for you."' "My good, noble boy," said Mr. Daly. " And here are the conspirators, the plotters," said the doctor, as Henry and Emily entered the room. "Come here, AMadanm Pert, and tell me how you dare whisk out of the rooml without scarcely speaking to me. Ah, my gcod little Emily," he continued, taking her hand, "I believe I must not scold you; your father has just been telling me of your plan, al d I approve of it very much." ," And what do you say, father "2 asked Henry. "My children," said Godfrey Daly, taking a hand of each, i henceforth vou shall be my guides. Lead me wheresoever you please. I care not, so that you are with me." It was a grouping worthy of ahpainter's pencil. The three figures, so different, and yet bearing so strong a family likeness to each other. Godfrey Daly, reclining in his arm chair; his worn, intellectual features flushed ivth excitement, while Henry and Emily stood on either side clasping his thin hands. The one, emblematical of youthful vigtor, the other, of gentle beauty. Thus, it would seem aE if the strength and comeliness of the old man's youth hai returned, and stood beside him ilSthe forms of his children After a momnent, the doctor (who was afraid, lest to( much excitement would injure Mr. Daly, in his then weal state,) said: "We must have no more planning, or spealk ing on business, to-day; you are not equal to it, Godfrey Those feverish colds are nothing, when you meet them out side the walls, but if you let them approach too near th citadel, they become dangerous. Now, to continue m metaphor, over excitement is a great traitor, and sometime   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     315 opens the gate; so we must get rid of it. You perceive, Emily, what a taste I have for the military profession! I have no doubt but that I would have made a first-rate yeo- manry captain." '"Oh, doctor, you would not have stooped to the yeoman- ry," said Henry, smiling. c' Why not, pray? I think they would have suited ine much betteP than the line." "Why so,. doctor?" "Because they were sure to run away at the first sign of danger. Do you remember, Godfrey, the day we met them going into Merrion Square, to be drilled?" . ' No, James." "Well, I am not surprised that you should not, for it is many a year ago; but the taunt of a little ragamuffin to a fat sergeant, fixed it on my mind." ' What was it?." asked Mr. Daly. "Just as you and I," replied, the doctor, " were passing one of the gates leading into the square, a body of yeoman- ry came up, on their way in, to be drilled. We stood back to let them pass. As usual, they were attended by a crowd of boys, who attempted to squeeze themselves in with the men. ' Make way there,' said a fat sergeant, waddling like a goose. 'Make way there, will ye's, for the souldiers,' at the same time catching a little ragged fellow by the collar of his coat, and nearly flinging him out of it. ; ' Oh! boys, honeys,' cried the little fellow, picking him. self up,' come and see the yeo's playing soldiers. "' "I remember the circumstance now, perfectly," said Mr. Daly, laughing, and that you gave the little rebel half-a- crown." "To be sure I did," replied the doctor. ,By-the-bye, speaking of scenes in Dublin reminds me, I had a letter fromn a friend yesterday, who resides there; and he writes to me that Tim O'Roarke is cutting a great dash." "Indeed .? said Mr. Daly. "Yes. He is at present going through the operation of being lionized and victimized, in a very low but expensive manner. He has got in with a lot of fast young scamps, who eat his dinners, drink his wine, win his money, and tell 19 ,' '    316      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. him he is a deuced decent fellow. One of those young scamps told my friend that Tim 'was a most original and amusing animal, worth studying, especially as he bled freely,' Tim thinks he is getting into high life, although, scamps as these fellows are, they would never think of knowing him outside a tavern, or a billiard room. To illustrate this, my friend writes, that one of Tim's most aristocratic acquaint- ances borrowed Tim's horse. While out riding, he met his father,-who is no less than a right honorable,--and joined him. As they passed down Sackville street, Tim who was standing in the door of Mitchel's cigar shop, recognizedhis friend, mounted on the borrowed steed, and commenced waving his hand in a most graceful and familiar manner. "Who is that, Tom?" asked the young gentleman's father. 'Where sir,' said young hopeful, staring Tim straight in the face. ' Why there,' replied his father, at the cigar shop; I don't know him, and I don't wish you to have such acquaint- ances,' 'I never saw him before, sir,' said Master Tom. "'Why, sir,' replied his father, he is saluting you, as if he intended to twist his arm out of its socket.' ' It must be John, father, he is saluting,' replied young impudence, mean- ing the servant, who followed them on horseback. ' Ah, there is Summerville and his sister, ahead of us, let us ride on and join them,' and they cantered off, leaving Tim gaping after them, in a confused uncertainty, as to the identity of his friend, his horse, himself, and all terrestrial things." "I am sorry for the young man," said Mr. Daly. Where is his uncle?-he should see after him.1' "Why, I am told," replied Dr. Kelly, " that he encourag- ed him to leave the country, and go see life, as they call it. No doubt, he had some honest reason for doing so." "That reminds me," said Mr. Daly, " there are some bills of mine overdue in Lyons' hands. However, if we decide on leaving this place, the sale of the stock, horses, and other things, will pay all my small debts. I wrote to Lyons' about those bills, but have received no answer from him." i' The silence of. such a fellow is to be dreaded," replied the doctor. "But, we are breaking through the regulation I have just made, that all business subjects must be avoided for a few days. Do you know, Henry, that the Blazers meet at the wood of Doone, to-morrow?"   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       317 ' Yes, doctor," replied Henry. "You must go, Henry,"' said his father. ,; Oh, no, father, I do not care to go.5? "Upon my honor, if the day answers, you shall go," an- swered Mr. Daly, " so that is settled. Perhaps soon, Henry,. vou will have to forego the amusement altogether." ' "So much the better, father," replied Henry, "I never intended that my life should be passed away among hounds and horses." "Right, Henry," said Doctor Kelly, " there are things in the world better worth winning than a fox's brush." "Much as you despise it," remarked Mr. Daly, "Henry must bring it home, to-morrow. Ah! James, I have seen the day when your heart warmed at the cry of the hounds." "It does to this day, Godfrey. If I had time, I assure you I would like to drive over to Doone in the morning, to see old Tony putting his babbies into covert." ' Well, can't you make time, doctor?" said Mr. Daly. "To be sure," replied the old man, as a laugh stole to his face, "it would be easy enough to make a few hours, bnt the difficulty is to splice them on to the old twenty- four." "Now, Emily," said Mr. Daly, "f do you hear the doctor?" "Oh, doctor," she exclaimed, laughing, " you really are incorrigible." "It is time for me to be off," said the doctor, " when you begin to scold; if you must scold some one, there is your father for you; I give him into your charge. He is to bathe his feet to-night, take a warm drink and this powder, after which put plenty of blankets over him; he is not to get up to-morrow, until towards evening. He is self-willed, like yourselfl, and will be inclined to break through these rules; so you will have plenty of opportunity to scold him to your heart's content. And now, Godfrey, good bye, I will see you to-morrow." "It will be too much trouble to give you," replied Mr. Daly. "I hope I will not require to see you." ("Thank you," said the doctor. "I mean professionally, James." "Well, I suppose I can come see you for all that. 'The   318      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. cat can look at the king.' Not that I think any sensible cat, with a proper amount of self-respect, would give a rat's tail to do so. Good bye, again, Godfrey. Good bye, Emily." (Then aside to her,) prattle away all the nonsense you can think of, while he remains up. You are coming to see me off, Henry." When the doctor and Henry had left the room, the latter anxiously enquired about his father. "He is a little feverish," replied Dr. Kelly, but that I at- tribute, in a great measure, to excitement. Amuse his mind as much as possible; it will not do for him to think of busi. ness just now, and when in his presence, be as' cheerful as possible. For, mark me, Henry, your father, at present, seems actually to enjoy the idea of renting Dalystown. Emi- ly has introduced it, in its brightest colors; but a re-action will come, which we must be prepared for. It is hard to transplant an old tree, harder still for one like my poor friend to leave his ancestral home, never, perhaps, to return to it." "( Then it might be better to give up the idea altogether," said Henry. , No," replied the doctor, " for it is the only course left. Were a torrent rushing to destroy your favorite tree, you would take it up, at-all hazard." "Alas!" almost as well to let the angry flood overwhelm it." "Not so," said the doctor. "Relember the good old say- ing, 'help yourself, and God will help you.' Besides, I have been looking now at the gloomiest side. The love of his children, will, I feel assured, support your father through what must be to him a severe trial. And now, good bye, my boy; perhaps you will find me here, to-morrow, on your return from hunting, for I will try to arrange my time so that I will have a few hours to sit with your father." '"In all our planning, doctor, Emily and I have looked to you as a tower of strength."   ' "It would pain my old heart," he replied, " if you did not calculate on all the assistance I can give. But there is a tower of strength, Henry, to which we all must look,- not made of clay,- whose magnitude the stars do not compass. "I understand you, doctor, I hope we have not forgotten to seek His help."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     319 "I am sure you have not, Henry. Keep up a good heart' and all will be well." CHAPTER XXIV It was a fine, dry, clear March morning, when Henry Daly rode out of the yard at Dalystown, on his way to the wood of Doone. As the covert was to be drawn by the Blazers,-the then finest pack -of hounds in Europe,-and it was a sure find; as the ground, too, was in good order, the wind just sufficiently strong to make the scent lie,-there was every prospect of a good day's sport. Not long since, Henry would have noted all those favorable signs with the keen zest of a sportsman, but now, although from habit he failed not to notice them, they made no impression upon him. However, despite the many and sad thoughts that filled his mind, something like his old feelings returned, when he found himself at the meet. There is nothing more exhilerating to a sportsman than a hunt meet, on a fine morning, with a good run in prospective. To be sure, the adventurous Cockney, who, the evening before, has been picturing to himself glorious sport, and the accomplishment of wonderful feats of horsemanship,--when in the presence of the hounds and breakneck fences, is apt to find his cour- age, like Bob Acres, oozing out at the palms of his hands." But a Galway man knows no such craven feeling; even in the days of his novitiate, no dastard fear disturbs him; he is, in a manner, born a sportsman, and the cry of hound, is to him as the war blast to the warrior. The whipper-in and earth-stopper, were uncoupling the hounds, and old Tony, the huntsman, calling thyem by name and ranging them in order, when young Daly rode up. ,   320      TBE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. There they sat in lines, five deep, immovable, watching their huntsman's eye, while their anxiety to be let into cov. ert, might be noted by the quivering flanks of those on the outside. A number of gentlemen, wearing scarlet hunting coats, sat on their horses, close by, waitingto see them en. tered, whilst others, who were mounted on horses whose, youth, or want of proper training, made it almost impossi. ble for their riders to keep them steady for a moment, were scattered about the fields. Every now and then too, a loi. Of#erer might be seen in the distance, spurring, to make up for Jlost time, and clearing all before him, well knowing that if the hounds broke covert before he was up, the chance for overtaking them would be small indeed. Fox was too accomplished a hunter to allow of his mas- ter's being afraid to approach the hounds, whose presence the horse acknowledged, by pricking up his ears, and look- ing down at them with a very approving eye. Henry had not long reined in his horse, when he felt his shoulder tapped, and turning round, recognized his friend Anthony O'Kelly; not close to him, however, for Anthony's horse,-about as wild an animal as Anthony himself,-had gone plunging off with him to some distance. "Come here, Henry," shouted O'Kelly, "I cannot stop a moment in one place with this horse. It was at the risk of committing murder," he continued, as Henry joined him, "that I brought him near the hounds, when I saw you riding up." "Why, do you not ride a steady horse, Anthony ." asked his friend. '* Steady, be d-d," replied Anthony, jerking out his words, as the horse poked, in the laudable endeavor to pull his rider over his head, "I'd-as-soon-ride a--hobby horse, as one of your steady ones. If the hounds were once off, I would soon take the devil out of him." At this moment the huntsman, cracking his whip, called out, ' get away, hark over-hark over--hark over, my bab- bies." Wildly the hounds rushed forward, and bounded into the covert. Old Tony, with his hand up, warning to silence, rode along by its side. Presently a hound gave tongue, then another.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      321 t A That's Ranger and Gipsy," said Tony, whose practiced ear could distinguish the tone of each hound, ' they've got on a hare. Ware hare, Ranger; fie-fie, Gipsy. Ware babbling, Dairymaid," as a young hound gave tongue. Then there was a solitary prolonged note ahead. "That's Music," exclaimed the huntsman; "she's on the fox; yoicks to Music, yoicks to Music there. Hark forward-- hark forward-hark forward." "Back, gentleman," said the huntsman, as some pressed forward; "hold hard-hold hard. He'll break at the cor- j ner next to us here. There he goes," he continued in a whisper, as a fine dog fox jumped upon the high bank that ran round the covert, and sat for a moment listening to the cry of the hounds behind him, then, clearing a wide dike, he landed on the opposite side, gave himself one shake, and broke, in gallant style, for the rising ground in front of him. "Tallyho!" shouted old Tony, as the hounds came dash-, ing out of covert, " tallyho! Now, gentlemen, ride as fast as you like. Its not a bad horse that will keep the Blazers in sight, to-day." The fox shaped his course for another covert, about seven miles off, and this distance was traveled over without a check. Too hotly pressed to remain any time in the ref- uge he had sought, he again broke, taking to a deep bog, on the opposite side of which was another covert. This was a great disappointment to those who were well up in the hunt, and quite the contrary to those who were far behind, and who had already realized " that it is the pace which kills ;" for, as the horses could not cross the bog, there was nothing for it but to take to the road, " and the last in the field, is always first on the road." O'Kelly and Daly were among the first during the run, but both of them disliked road riding. "' Let them go on, Anthony," said his friend. "Do their best, the fox will be either killed or earthed, an hour before they can come up with the hounds." "Well," said O'Kelly, " the Blazers did go it in fine style to-day. Do you know, Henry, had the run lasted two miles longer, I would have to give up; my horse is completely blown."2   322      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "You have kept your promise, Anthony, and taken the devil out of him." "Only for the day," replied Anthony. "It is with him- "When the devil was sick, the devil a saint would be; When the devil got well, the devil a saint was he." Fox is quite fresh, how splendidly he carried you to day." "Buy him, Anthony." "What, Fox? You would not part with him.,' "I don't know that, Anthony; we are speaking of leaving Dalystown." "We!" exclaimed O'Kelly. "Surely your father would not think of leaving the old place?" v"We will move on slowly, Anthony, and I will tell you all about it." As the two friends rode side by side, Henry went into a short but very clear statement of his father's affairs, and the necessity of action. O'Kelly's face, as he listened, grew sad and thoughtful. "By George, Henry," he said, when his friend had con- cluded, " it is too bad; but I believe that the breaking up of the establishment at Dalystown is the wisest course to be pursued. Let us not mind those hounds any more to-day, I will ride home with you, to see your father." "That's a good fellow, Anthony," replied Henry, "you always make him laugh, and Dr. Kelly told us to keep up his spirits as much as possible. Who have we here .?" This last remark was caused by Henry's perceiving a post chaise coming on behind them. "The special commission was to have terminated in Gal- way, on yesterday," replied O'Kelly, "Very likely it is some of those d-d lawyers returning from it." As the post chaise was passing them, old Mr. Warburton popped his red face out of the window. "'Halloa, posthoy, stop!" he shouted. '"Do you hear, sir? Stop, and be d-d to you. Anthony, knock that fellow out of the saddle; he's as deaf as a post." The man pulled up so suddenly that had the window been large enough, the old gentleman stood a fair chance of being jerked out on the road, for, notwithstanding his deafness, he had heard the unusual method (unless at elec-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     323 tion time) his fare had suggested, for stopping a post boy. ,c How are you, my lads?" said the old gentleman. "That is right; mounted in the pig's skin; but where are the hounds?" "They have crossed the bog, to Heathlawn, sir," replied Hi enry, " and we have left the road riding to others." & Quite right," answered the old gentleman; " at best they will have but covert hunting at Heathlawn."- ai ,' We had a splendid run, though, from Doone," said An- 1 thony. t"Yes. That is a fine country you must have crossed. Ah! my lads, I saw the day I would have liked to be alongside of you." "You are not too old yet," said O'Kelly. "Who said I was, you puppy," answered Warburton; " but what good is that when this infernal gout has my legs as big as the butt end of an elephant's trunk. Don't you think a post chase would be rather an inconvenient way to cross a country in, eh, Mr. Anthony?" "Well, perhaps, so," replied O'Kelly, " when one is not accustomed to do the thing in that way. But what would you think of a balloon? it would take you over the fences nicely, and at the same time you could be raising yourself in the world, by throwing sand in the eyes of your friends below you. By George, I think it would be a most states- manlike way of hunting." "Make me one, Anthony," replied the old gentleman; "you ought to know how, for I hear you are a first rate hand at flying a kite; eh; Henry, I think I paid him off for the balloon," and the old fellow laughed until his face grew purple. '"May I ask you, Mr. Warburton," said Henry, " where you are coming from?" "From Galway," he replied, "I left at eight o'clockrthis morning. Don't forget, Henry, to tell your father thatypu met me and that I have kept my word. I told him that I would hire a chaise to go see that scoundrel, Maloney, hanged, and I did so." "You don't mean to say, Mr. Warburton," said O'Kelly, that you went to Galway on no other business than to see the fellow hanged?"   324      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "By  , but I do," he replied, "I'll honor you, Anthony, with four horses, or, may be, a balloon," and he winked at Henry. "I am much obliged," answered O'Kelly, 'for the in. tended honor; but do you not think this novel sport will be rather a tax on human life, if a man has to be hanged, now and then, to allow you to indulge in it?" "Egad," he replied, "I am done with such sport, but, lads, I had a good object in going." "What was that, Mr Warburton?" "Do you see an outside car, coming along the road?" he asked. "No." "Ah, the scoundrels have stopped to drink again." "Who do you mean, sir?" "Why, my lads, you must know I brought four young fellows that I knew to be scampish, (sons to tenants of mine,) to Galway, to witness the execution of Maloney, thinking it would have a salutary effect upon them. But I never was more mistaken in my life. I don't believe that they have been one hour sober since they entered the town of Galway up to the present hour. One of the fellows had the impudence to tell me this morning, that it was his feelings overpowered him. I knew better; I knew it was whiskey."   , "There is an outside car coming on now," remarked O'Kelly. "Yes, that's mine," said the old gentleman, "I'll be laughed at by the whole parish if these fellows are seen re* turning home, drunk, with me. Drive on, you rascal. Good bye, my lads. Don't forget to tell your father, Henry, that you met me, and that Maloney died a d-d coward." "What about those others who were to be tried with him?' asked Henry. "Their trials are postponed, until the assizes, to give time to procure further evidence against them. It is said that the crown lawyers were afraid to trust the cripple in their cases, as he seemed half inclined to back out so far as they were concerned; but he ran Maloney to the death, breast high all through." f   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      825 "Ah, here comes the car, powdering along," said O'Kelly. "Drive on, you rascal," shouted Billy Warburton, " drive on, or I'll shoot you." Thus admonished, the deaf postillion set whip and spur to his jaded horses, and away rattled the chaise. In a few moments, the car, which O'Kelly had seen in the distance, came up. There were five men on it, including the driver, four of whom were singing boisterously, as their bodies swayed from side to side; the fifth was lying in the middle of the car, in a drunken sleep, his legs dangling down over the back panel. As soon as O'Kelly and Daly were recognized, the sing- ing ceased, and the vocalists, taking off their hats, endeavor- ed to salute the gentlemen in a very dignified and respect- ful manner. "Drive on, boys," said O'Kelly, " your'master wishes you to catch up to him, before he reaches home. Drive on and make no delay." "Hurra!"' shouted the driver, forcing his horse into a gallop, and making the wheels spin round with a velocity that promised a speedy overtaking of the chaise. "That must be IThe Man of Feeling,'" said O'Kelly, pointing to the sleeper, as the car passed on. "I would not be surprised if Billy Warburton was right, and that whiskey had some effect on his sensitive mind. Did any one ever hear of so whimsical and ridiculous an idea as this one of Warburton's, for reforming his proteges." "There are nearly as ridiculous model reformatory sys- tems adopted every other day," replied Henry, "and War. burton's, had one honest advantage over the others, that he asks no one to pay for it ,but himself. Let us trot on, An- thony, I am anxious to get home." They had proceeded for about a quarter of a mile, when, on coming to a! turn in the road, they perceived a young lad some short distance before them. It was evident, from his wearied, tottering steps, that he was after a long jour- ney. He, carried his shoes in his hand, and when he came to grassy spots, on the side of the road, he commenced run- ning, as well as his failing strength would allow him. At the sound of horses' steps behind him, he turned his head quickly, but, without pausing, continued on.   326      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "*But that it is scarcely possible," remarked Henry Daly; I would say that was Edward Vaughan before us. Colme on, Anthony. On my honor it is," he continued, spurring his horse forward. "Edward-Edward Vaughan-Edward, don't you know me?" "God be praised," said the boy, as he staggered forward and caught Henry's hand, "I would never have reached Dalystown before them." "Before whom?' said Henry, springing from his horse. "Who is in pursuit of you. What has happened, my poor boy; you seem half dead; but you have nothing now to fear, Edward, we will protect you." "Oh I do not think of me," replied the boy; " but ride on to Dalystown as fast as your horse can carry you, for my uncle and the sheriff, and the soldiers, are on their way to make a seizure." Henry staggered back against his horse, as if he had re- ceived a blow. "Oh, God!" he exclaimed, " this will kill my father." "Come on, Henry," said O'Kelly, i' we have not a moment to lose to be before them and have everything out of .the way." As he spoke he continued to advance. "Stay, Anthony," replied Henry, "I cannot leave this boy here. Should his uncle come up with him he will nearly mur- der him, I feel assured." "' Then bring him along with you," said O'Kelly, galloping back, and jumping off his horse. "Mount, Henry,"' he con- tinued, and, as the latter did so, O'IKelly swung the boy up behind his friend. "Hold hard there now, my fine little fel- low," he said; then, vaulting into his saddle, he followed Henry, who had started forward the moment Edward was mounted. c' Keep your arms well about me, Edward," said Henry, "tell me all about this. Could you be mistaken?" 4"No, no," replied the boy; "I would have been with you two days ago, but that my uncle kept me locked up. Only the sheriff had to remain until the commission closed, they would have been at Dalystown on yesterday." ': Go on-go on, Edward, tell me-eall." , "My uncle," continued the boy, " thought at first to con-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      327 ceal from me what he was going to do, but he found out that I knew he was going to bring the sheriff to Dalystown. He beat me and swore he would kill me if I attempted to give you any information; but I did not care for that, and went to the coach office to ask the agent would he carry me, and that I Would pay when I got to Dalystown. He refused. I then determined to see the coachman, before he left in the morning, and to send word by him. But one of my uncle's bailiffs had dogged me to the office, and when I returned home I was cruelly beaten by my uncle and locked into a back room that had iron bars on the outside of the window. I thought my heart would break, thinking of you, and expects ing every moment to hear that my uncle had set out with the sheriff." "Go on-go on, Edward," said Henry, pressing the boy's hand. "How did you escape?" asked O'Kelly. "Yesterday," he replied, "my uncle dined out, and came home, at night, drunk. He came up to the room I Was in and the first thing he did was to beat me. He thien sat down and commenced telling me that this morning he was to set out for Dalystown, with the sheriff. He asked me had I any commands for my friends there, but said that I need not expect any presents from them, as by that time to mor. row lie would have all belonging to them under seizure. I would have shot him then, I think, if I had a pistol. As it was, I would have torn him with my teeth, when he seized me a sepond time, to beat me, but that the thought struck me, as he was drunk he might forget to lock the door on his going out, and I knew if I aggravated him he would tie me. I was right. He did forget to lock the door, and when he went to bed I stole down stairs and out of the house. , I am coming all night. I missed my way once, or I would' have been here sooner." "My poor, good Edward," said Henry. "Anthony, An- thony, this will kill my father!" "No, no, Henry," replied O'Kelly; "Cuff, the sheriff, is a decent fellow enough. If we are in time to getieverything out of the way so that there will 'be nothing to seize, he will make no fuss but just wheel about and return. Is not your father keeping his room?" -.   328      THE DALYS OF DALYSTO WN. "Yes," replied Henry, "and we may yet prevent his knowing anything of this business. But we were lost, Ed. ward, but for you. Let us hurry on, Anthony, for God's sake." Half an hour's hard riding brought them to where the lands of Dalystown commenced, and within a short distance of the demesne. O'IKelly reined in. "I will cross in here, Henry," he said, " and collect all the people I can get, in those villages beyond, to assist us., Do you keep the road. Go direct to the house; have the doors locked, and also the yard gates." He was turning into the fields, when Henry said: "Anthony, above all things, caution the people to make no noise or disturbance. Just tell them the way my poor father is." "Do not fear, Henry," he replied, "I will keep them quiet. When we have got the cattle driven off, I will join you." And leaping his horse over the wall that bounded the road, he galloped off in the direction of the villages he had alluded to. In the meantime, Henry kept on his way, and entered Dalystown by the avenue that led to the farmyard, at the, rear of the house. Dismounting, he assisted Edward to do so. The boy's wearied limbs had become so stiff that Henry had to lift him in his arms and carry him into the house. Wh!en they entered the kitchen, the servants there gave an exclamation of surprise, but Henry put up his hand to warn them to silence. "Where is my sister," he asked.    "In the master's room, sir," replied a young housemaid. "Go into the room, Jane, and let her know, by some sign, without my father's perceiving you, that she is wanted out. When she is outside, whisper to her that I wish to see her in the parlor. Sit down here, Edward, at the fire, until I return." The girl went up stairs, and Henry to the parlor; pres- ently he heard his sister's step upon the stairs and, in a mo- ment after, she entered the room. "- What has happened, Henry?" she asked, "I know by your countenance that something dreadful has happened." '"No, my dear sister, nothing dreadful, but I have some- thing to tell. Is my father still in bed?"   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      329 "Yes." ( Thank God for that; I have had some bad news, Emilv, ' but only connected with money matters. Did Jane tell [ you that Edward Vaughan was here?" I Yes." ' Well, Emily, the poor boy has been walking all night; he has come to warn us that his uncle, Lyons, intends to make a seizure here, one of these days; you know my father owes him some money." i; Oh, Henry," she exclaimed, while her very lips turned L pale, " lose not a moment; go to Galway at once and see i this man, tell him what papa is going to do; tell him that i we are going to give them up all, if they allow us but to bring him to some place where we will have peace." "Yes, dear Emily, but there ibme danger that Lyons may come to-day." "Henry," she exclaimed, as she sunk on a chair, and covered her eyes with her hands, 'he is coming to-day; I  know all now." "Now that you do know the danger, Emily," said her brother, stooping down and putting his hand round her waist, "should this man come, think you you will have strength to assist me in concealing his presence from my father ' "God will give me strength, Henry," she replied, taking down her hands and looking at her brother. "You are my own brave little sister," said Henry. "Lis- ten, love; the front and back doors of the house must be locked when I go out. I will see that the same is done with the yard and haggart gates. Anthony O'Kelly, who came home with me, has gone to get the cattle driven off the lands. He and I will meet the sheriff, and show him that we have been apprized of his coming, and that he can make no seizure. Neither O'Kelly or myself have any doubt but'that Cuff, who is a gentleman, will turn back at once, without making any needless disturbance. But your part, Emily, is the hardest of all. Do you think you would have strength to remain in my father's room, to chat to him, to keep his mind engaged; do you think you could do this while your own is racked by the agony of suspense? Oh! my sister, I am asking you to do that which I myself would not have strength to perform."   330      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "(I will endeavor to do it, Henry," she replied. "Ifi depended on myself, I would, indeed, fail; go Henry, go at once, and do as you say. Even now they may be approach. ing the house; go, go, dear brother, we are in the hands of God." "True, my sister," he replied, as he led her from the room to the foot of the stairs, and in His holy keeping I leave you." "She ascended the stairs, but paused on the first landing with her hand resting on the balustrade. Oh, poor father," she murmured, as she looked towards the room she was about to enter, then without looking back, or again paus. ing, she ascended the remaining flight of stairs, and, open. ing the door, passed in. Henry now returned to the kitchen, where he had left Edward, and told the latter that he was going out,-and wished him to remain in the house until his return. He then turned to the wondering servants and said, while a blush of shame came to his face, " after I leave the house, you will lock both the front and back doors; you are not to open them to any person until I knock; on no account make any noise or disturbance, whatever you may see going on outside. Your master's life depends, perhaps, upon your keeping the house quiet. Let no one go near my father's room, unless his bell rings ; if it does, you will answer it, Mary. Edward, you will see that. my directions are attended to, but, indeed, I know I have said sufficient to put you all on your guard." As he was about to quit the kitchen, he stopped and turn. ed round. "My poor fellow," he said, "I was near forget- ting you. Mary, get Mr. Edward some refreshment, at once; he has been walking all last night and to-day." He then left the house. In the yard he found some work- men and servants, amongst whom was the steward. The lat. ter went up to him and asked, " if anything wrong had hap- pened." "I have just heard, Simon," replied his young master, "that the sheriff is coming here to-day." ' The sheriff, Mr. Henry, what does lie want here?" "I have not time now, Simon, to tell anything more of the   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWNX.     331 matter. Get everything in and about the yard locked up, and let the gates be closed and locked. My men,"' he con- tinued to those who had crowded around him, " do this as quickly and noiselessly as you can. Your master's life de- pends upon his knowing nothing- of what may happen here to-day." "By the hole of my coat, Mr. Henry," said a big fellow, stepping forward, " af you'll let us, we"ll meet them on the road and knock them into smithereens." "No, no," replied Henry, "I tell you there must be no fighting, no noise. Even if I was mad enough to allow you to attempt such a thing, you could not succeed in stopping them, as they are bringing a party of soldiers with them." "Hadn't some of us, sir, better go and drive off the stock?' "Mr. Anthony O'Kelly has gone to collect people to do so. Shut the gate after me and remain here in the yard. For the love you have for your old master, I ask you, that no matter who or what you see, you remain where you are, and keep as quiet as possible." The men promised to obey him, and it was no slight evi- dence of their attachment, that they kept their word. When Henry arrived at the front of the house, he saw O'Kelly galloping towards him, and when the latter came up, he announced that the cattle were, by this time, nearly all housed. "The people," he said, "' are collecting at the front en- trance. I had much to do to keep them from setting out to meet the sheriff and his party, to oppose their further advance: telling them that the sheriff had a party of soldiers with him, seemed but to give them pluck, and James Delany called out that they would not fear all the soldiers in Gal- way, in such a cause. You must come down, Henry, and speak to them, or I fear there may be ugly work." "Leave your horse in the yard, Anthony, and we will go down together. Perhaps, after all," continued Henry, when his friend again joined him, "Edward may be mistaken. My father was never served with any law paper." "That makes no difference," replied O'Kelly, "such fel- lows as Lyons, get men every day to swear that they served people, whom, they never saw; you can, to be sure, indict   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. them for perjury, but they run the risk of yozur doing so for an additional fee. See, Henry, the crowd is increasing every moment, and they are becoming excited. By George I fear that the enemy is in sight. Let us hurry on." Both gentlemen quickened their pace, and by the time they reached the front entrance, a party of dragoons were in sight, coming down the road, which here ran in a straight line for about half a mile, so that when first seen, the sol- diers were some distance off. When Henry Daly appeared, James Delany, who had evidently become the leader of the country people collected at the gate, went up to him. " Mr. Henry," he said, " do you and Mr. Anthony, return to the house, and leave us to manage those coming on." " Silence," replied Henry, " and hear me. The man who raises his hand or voice here to-day, is my enemy for life. My father is sick, confined to his bed,-is he to be told that blood has been shed at his gate  If you remain quiet all will pass off well. James Delany, I will look to you, that you allow no disturbance." "We will be bidden by you, sir," replied Delany. "Why not" The party advancing were by this time near enough to allow Henry and O'Kelly to recognize the sheriff and Lyons, who, accompanied by a posse of bailiffs on foot, rode a lit- tle in advance of the soldiers. ' We are late, Mr. Lyons," remarked the sheriff. " They have been apprised of our coming, and, doubtless, have everything out of the way by this time." The sheriff, a jolly-looking personage, made this remark in such a cheerful tone of voice, that it was quite evident the circumstance did not annoy him much. " Yes," replied Lyons, " that cursed villain of the world has been before me. But if you had got up, Mr. Sheriff, two hours earlier, we would, I think, have been in time. " I am not obliged to leave home, sir, before sunrise," an. swered Mr. Cuff, " and, to tell you the truth, the duty I am )n at present is not a very pleasant one; so I was in no un- lecessary hurry to proceed with it. Few know Godfrey Daly, who do not respect him, and it is sad to witness the lecline of an ancient family. However," he continued, " we   are in time for a little fighting, for I do not expect those fellows yonder will allow us to leave without giving some token of their regard." " Mr. Sheriff;" replied Lyons, " I am under your protection, and that of the military." The latter consisted of about thirty men, under the com- mand of an officer. " Oh, my dear fellow," answered the sheriff, laughing," we will protect you, that is, so far as we are able to protect ourselves; but, should a stone be sent whizzing in the di- rection of your head, I don't undertake to stop it." "We had better speak to the officer in command, sir," said Lyons, who did not enjoy the other's bantering tone. ( The sheriff, sir," he continued, addressing the officer, "thinks it probable that we may be attacked by those peo- ple in front of us; I hope you have your men prepared." " You will be good enough, my fine fellow, to give your- self no trouble about my men. I am here to protect the sheriff and his bailiffs, and I suppose you come in with the latter." " I am no bailiff, sir," said Lyons flushing up.  "I am a solicitor, sir." The officer fixed his eye glass in his eye, surveyed Lyons from head to foot, and then, raising his eyebrows, let the glass drop. " You are the fellow, I think," he said, "who was pointed out to me as having this-what do you call it ? Execution, -is it not? The whole thing is a cursed bore. Mr. Sheriff; do you wish me to charge'?" "Not exactly, Cornet Fortescue," replied the sheriff, again laughing. " I see both young Mr. Daly and Mr. O'Kelly in the crowd, and here comes the latter towards us." " So it is," said the officer.  Upon my soul it is too bad, I really am ashamed to be seen in such company. Excuse me Mr. Sheriff, I don't mean you." "How do you do, Cuff," said O'Kelly, advancing and shak- ing hands with the sheriff. " Ah, Fortescue, is that you?. How are you. At length your young valor has found a glorious field."' "Oh! for heaven's sake do not banter me, O'Kelly; my   334      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. cup is filled to overflowing. Pray introduce me at 'once to your friend, Daly, tlat-I may make all suitable apology to him." "In one moment, Fortescue," replied O'Kelly. "May I speak with you, Cuff?" "Of course," replied the sheriff, turning to one side with him. "You see," commenced O'Kelly, " that we have been ap. prized of your coming. Everything is safe under lock and key." "I am glad to hear it, I assure your Mr. O'Kelly, I never was engaged in a more unpleasant duty than the one I came on here to-day." "You are a trump, Cuff."7 "But where is Mr. Daly?" asked the sheriff. "That is what I want to speak to you about, Cuff. He is in bed, sick; did he know of your visit, God only knows what the consequences would be. Now, will you ascertain quietly, for yourself, that there is nothing on which this shark Lyons can levy his execution, and then retire? "I will,T' replied Mr. Cuff, "I will call Lyons over and speak to him." "Wait until I move off, for if he comes within reach of my arm, I will, most assuredly, have to knock him down." So saying, he went over to where Cornet Fortescue sat on his horse. "Well, O'Kelly," exclaimed the latter, "I hope you have arranged this business. 'Pon my soul it is enough to make a fellow retire from the service, to be sent on such duty." "Oh, you will get accustomed to it, Fortescue, when you are a little time amongst us, and Connaught has some pleas- ant places to be quartered in." "' Deuced pleasant. You are about the gayest set of fel- lows I have ever met with; but it is confoundedly stupid of you to be always getting in debt in this way." "It is not our fault, Fortescue. It's an epidemic in the air, very taking, I assure you. I have known several young fellows of your profession seized with it and by it too, faith, shortly after their arrival in the country, and obliged to sell out in consequence."   TH; UABLY$ UJ1' MDALXXTUW . NV6 Lyons' voice was here heard, in angry remonstrance with the sheriff. We will, at all events; go up to the house," he said, in answer to some remark of the latter's, " and I call upon you, sir, to do your duty." "As you will," replied Mr. Cuff, " but will it not be suf-  ficient that you and I go up, leaving these others here. Remember that Mr. Daly is ill." "Ill, be ,d d," said Lyons, " that's all a sham. I'll not risk my life by going up without the military." The party had by this time advanced to the gate, where Henry Daly stood. The sheriff, dismounting, went up to him. "I regret very much, Mr. Daly," he said, " having teen obliged to come on so unpleasant a duty, especially now, as Mr. O'Kelly has informed me that your father is ill." "Yes, sir," replied Henry, " he is confined to his bed, perhaps never to rise from it, if your presence here becomes known to him." "I have been saying something like this to Mr. Lyons," replied the sheriff, but he insists on going up to the house. I proposed that we two only should go, but he fears to stir, without the escort. I have no alternative, Mr. Daly, but to comply with his wishes." "Very well, sir. Of course, I know you must do your duty; but, before you proceed, let me speak to this man a moment." Henry then went up to Lyons. "You are about bringing your party up to the house," he said, " although you must know that unless to gratify dis- appointed malice, it is useless to do so. Well, you have the right, and I make no resistance, but mark me; if you, or any of these fellows under you, make an unnecessary noise, likely to be heard by my father, I declare, by the living God, that I will tear you limb from limb, had you twice the escort you have to guard you." He then turned to where the officer stood. "Cornet Fortescue, Mr Daly," said O'Kelly. "I deem myvself fortunate, sir," said Henry, "to have a gentleman to address. I have no doubt but that you will direct your men to make as little noise as possible while   336      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWNo proceeding to the house. Doubtless, my friend O'Kelly, has already informed you of my father's illness. Indeed, I feel assured, he continued, raising his voice, " that those fine fellows under your command, will, of themselves, com. ply with the favor I ask." "Mr. Daly," replied Cornet Fortescue, "I am but too happy to have even so slight an opportunity of showing how entirely I sympathise with you. Do you hear, lads," he continued, turning towards the men, " keep your horses in on the grass as you advance, and hold your scabbards, so that they will not clash." "Dinna fear, young gentleman," said a Scotch sergeant, addressing Henry, " we'll na disturb the sick." Then aside to one of his comrades, ' I would gie a piece o' siller mysel' that chiel of an attorney was in the Clyde, with a braw stone round his neck." "4 We had better proceed," said the sheriff, "the sooner this unpleasant business is over the better." As they advanced up the avenue, Henrv's eyes were con- tinually directed to the windows:of his father's room. It would be impossible to express the agony of his mind dur. ing th6se moments. As they drew near the house he thought he saw his sister standing at one of the windows beckon- ing to him; he was about to run forward, when he perceived that it was but the curtains of the window that had stirred. What a relief it would be to him, he, thought, could he but look into that room for a moment. Emily, no doubt, was watching their approach, and using all her little endearing- arts to conceal it from her father. What a trial for the young girl, endeavoring, at that moment, perhaps, to smile, to laugh, while her poor heart was throbbing with anxiety, fear and grief. "It is unnecessary, Cornet Fortescue," said the sheriff, "that your men should advance any nearer to the house. I will go forward, and if I cannot obtain admission we will return as we came."              "Do you mean to say," said Lyons, ' that you will not remain any time about the place? If the bailiffs are prop- erly placed," lie continued, lowering his voice, " they will get in before night; some one must pass in or out, especially if the old man is sick."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      337 The sheriff looked at him. "Well, Mr. Lyons,"' he said, "I thought I was case-hardened enough, but I'm only a tender- hearted baby to you. You have already a specialty from me, so you and your bailiffs may remain as long as you please, but as for my doing so, I'd see you particularly well d-d first.", "It is your duty, sir," said Lyons, " to use every exertion to make a seizure.'" "I know my duty, Mr. Lyons, and also who I have to deal with; if you find me tripping you will be in luck. Come on, sir, and watch." "Why," said Lyons, hesitating to advance, " there are a party of men up at the house, beside those who have been dogging our steps from the gate." This was true enough, for the men who had been in the yard, after closing the gate, had climbed over it and were now grouped around the hall door. "Sir," replied Mr. Cuff, "Mr. Henry Daly's presence is quite sufficient security for me, and I have taken the respon- sibility to order the military not to advance any further. Now stay where you are, or come along with me, just as you please; the whole thing has turned into a malicious farce." Without further objection Lyons advanced with the sheriff, not. indeed, that he now expected to be able to. make any seizure, but that he hoped, by watching Mr. Cuff, he might be able to catch him failing in some part of his duty, in which case he could make him responsible for the debt. When Mr. Cuff arrived at the hall-door, he knocked very gently, and demanded admittance. He was answered from the inside that the door would not be opened. Lyons gnashed his" teeth, for he recognized Edward Vaughan's voice, but Henry Daly stood besides him, and he feared to vent his rage. "That's my nephew's voice," he said to the sheriff, " the scoundrel who betrayed me. He is my ward, I demand that he be given up to me." "You must fetch him through the keyhole then," replied the sheriff, turning on his heel, and, after placing his hand against the yard gate, to ascertain if it was locked, he re-   338      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. turned to where he had left the military, of course accom. panied by the discomfited Lyons. "We will now return, Cornet Fortescue," said Mr. Cuff addressing the officer, " we have no further business here. I suppose you will halt at T--, to-night 2.w "Yes." For the first time, in, what appeared to him many hours, Henry Daly breathed freely. To use a homely phrase, "a load was raised from his heart." "This is the first time, sir," he said, addressing the officer, "that a gentleman has entered Dalystown, without being asked to partake of its poor hospitality ;" you and your men, must be sadly in want of refreshment." "My dear Mr. Daly," replied Cornet Fortescue, " pray do not distress yourself by making or thinking of any apology. This has, indeed, been a forced march to me, in every sense of the word; the best thing we can do now, is to rid you of our presence as quickly as possible, but I trust to re- new your acquaintance under happier auspices." "Mr. Cuff, too," said Henry, taking the sheriff by the hand, "I have to thank for his most gentlemanly consider- atlon. Believe me, sir, I feel truly grateful for the more than kind manner in which you have performed your duty." " I told you," said O'Kelly, " that he was a trump. If ever a sheriff makes an entry in heaven, he will; but by George, Cuff, you must look out and keep better company when you are going there or you will find the doors locked." O'Kelly, as he spoke, looked full at Lyons, but he re- sented not the implied insult. I believe I have mentioned somewhere before, that it was a leading trait in his meek nature never openly to :re- sent an insult nor ever to forget one. But, alas! it was fated that Tom Gallaher, who would have freely shed every drop of blood in his simple, faithful heart, to save his master from one hour's pain, should bring about the catastrophe Henry Daly so much dreaded. Tom, like most half-witted persons, although shrewd, and often humorous in his remarks, and capable of performing,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      339 iJ' with punctual fidelity. light tasks, which habit had made a second nature to him, was, nevertheless, outside of those, both stupid and foolish. He had been in a distant part of the demesne, exercising Beeswing, (Emily Daly's mare,) and as he returned home across the fields, he remarked the crowd collected in the park. Knowing that there was a hunt in the neighborhood, the red coats of the dragoons caused him to mistake them for huntsmen, and concluding that the fox had run to Dalystown, he gave Beeswing her head, and advanced at full speed. In vain, as he entered upon the park, was he called to and warned not to advance. There was a strong wind blowing, and Tom, with his head down, neither heard or saw anything until,'dashing up to the crowd, he found his rein seized by two bailiffs. Tom was in the hands of the Philistines. Henry Daly, longing to relieve his poor sister, by bring- ing to her the glad tidings that Lyons and his party had taken their departure, was at this time on his way to the house, accompanied by O'Kelly. Hearing the noise behind them, they turned round just as the bailiffs had made their seizure. Both gentlemen hurried back; Henry, with the intention of giving up the mare quietly. But, when too late, Tom discovered the mistake he had made, and endeavored to rectify it. Spurring forward, he applied his whip furiously to the heads and shoulders of the bailiffs, yelling forth, as he did so, a torrent of curses against them. In a moment, the mare had carried him and the two men, who still clung to the rein, in the direction of the house, and opposite to Mr. Daly's bedroom windows, but a little out of the line Henry and Anthony had taken. At this moment, Doctor Kelly was seen advancing up the avenue at a furious pace. The country people too, no longer sullen and silent, bnt wild with excitement, went. rushing forward. Henry Daly had come to within ten yards of Tom Gallaher, when a sudden crashing of glass made him look up. Staggering back against O'Kelly, he caught the arm of the latter and pointed, in silent horror and grief, to his father's window. At the open window stood God- frey Daly, a loose dressing gown thrown around his person, hi white hair tossing in the wind, his lips compressed, and his eyes literally emitting bright sparks, as they ever did, 6    .   340      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. when he was terribly excited. His face was deadly pale, and in his outstretched hands were a brace of pistols, point. ed at the men with whom Tom Gallaher was still struggling. His daughter s arms were around his waist, and her head bent down to his knees. So motionless was her form, that those outside supposed that she had swooned, in the position in which they now saw her. Despite all the poor girls fortitude and self-command, her father had remarked a nervous excitement in her man. ner, after she returned to his room from her interview with Henry. He observed, too, how anxiously she looked from the window at times, when she thought he was not noticing her; but when he proposed to get up, she turned round with such a look of affright on her face, that left no doubt on his mind but that something had occurred which she wished to conceal from him. Yet, so tenderly did he love her, even with the same gentle, forbearing love he had be- stowed upon her childhood, that he remained quiet, and forbore from questioning her, rather than give her pain, or let her'see that her little arts had failed to deceive him. But when the struggle commenced between Tom Gallaher and the bailiffs, a slight scream, of which she herself was unconscious, escaped Emily's lips, at the same time that the angry voices of men were heard approaching the house. Throwing his dressing gown around him, and springing from the bed, Mr. Daly reached the window, to realize, at a glance, the nature of the scene before him. To hasten to the table where his pistols lay, and return to the window, was but the work of a moment. With one blow he shiver- ed the glass and frame. "Villains," exclaimed Godfrey Daly, in a voice so stern that it fell strange and unfamiliar on Henry's ear, "cvil- Jains, loosen your holds; let go, I say, or by my honor, this moment is your last.." The voice, the attitude, were not to be trifled with; the men dropped their hands from the rein, and Tom, thinking he had achieved a triumph, gave a " view halloa," and darted forward. In a moment afterwards, Godfrey Daly was seen to stagger from the window, endeavoring, as he did so, to raise the senseless form of his child.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      341  Regardless of everything now, but to reach his father, Henry rushed to the hall door, and, coming with his whole weight against it, drove it in, and entered the house. He was at once followed by O'Kelly and the doctor. Lvons, seeing the door open, called upon the sheriff to do his duty; but Anthony O'Kelly, seizing the doctor by the arm, drew him in, and was in the act of shutting the door against the bailiffs, who were advancing, when Doctor Kelly said: (,You need not, Anthony; go and bring Cuff into the parlor, and wait for me there. Tell him I will settle the execution. I came to do so ; God-send that I am not too late." And the -old man hurried after Henry. "D-:n me," said O'Kelly, "if these fellows shall have the tisfaction to say that they got into the house," and with one shove he sent three of the men, who had reached the door-steps, tumbling back. Just then the sheriff arrived at the hall door, and Anthony delivered to him the doctor's message. " That is quite sufficient," replied Mr.- Cuff. "I will go into the house with you. You have nothing more to do," he said, turning to the bailiffs. " The matter is arranged." When Doctor Kelly reached Mr. Daly's room he found the latter in the arms of his son, while near the window were two girls, supporting the senseless form of Emily, and en- deavoring to restore her to consciousness. "Carry her to her room, Mary," said the doctor, glancing for a moment at her as he passed on to Mr. Daly, and loosen her dress. Send help here. Godfrey, Godfrey; what has happened to you ?" But Mr. Daly replied not. Though his eyes were open and moving, their intelligence was gone, and his mouth was slightly drawn to one side. "Oh! doctor," exclaimed Henry, " they have killed my father." For a moment the old doctor's presence of mind seemed to forsake him, and his face became as pale as his-upon whom he gazed; but this weakness quickly passed away. "Lay him on the bed, Henry," he said, in a rapid voice. "Quick, go for the box you will find in my gig, and bring some of the servants back with you."  342      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. For an hour the doctor remained at the bedside of his i friend, doing all that medical skill could suggest, while, on the opposite side, stood Emily and Henry, bending over their father, in that deep grief that has no voice. At length the doctor felt the weak pulse grow stronger; the tightness about the mouth relaxed and consciousness seemed return. ing to the eyes. "He is recovering from the fit," whispered the doctor. Oh! God be praised," exclaimed Emily, sinking her head upon the bed, while tears came to her relief. "I will hear his beloved voice once more." "Yes," replied the doctor, addressing both her and Henry, a" he is recovering, but you must not be alarmed if you find his mind wandering at first. He has had a very severe fit." Mr. Daly gave a deep sigh, and a look of recognition came to his eyes as he fixed them upon the doctor's face. The latter bent down. "How do you feel now, Godfrey?" e said. Mr. Daly's lips moved, as he endeavored to speak. "Don't distress yourself, Godfrey, by trying to answer," said the doctor, " until your strength returns. You will be well by-and-by." Again his lips moved, and, after a little, he spoke; but, oh God! in a voice so thick and altered that the words fell like molten lead upon the hearts of his children. "I shot the villain, James, did I not, that was taking my child's horse?" Doctor Kelly pressed his hand. "Compose yourself, God- frey," he said; "Henry, bring me that glass. Here, God. frey, take thee few drops,^they will do you good. That is right; close your eyes now and you will sleep." In some minutes after Mr. Daly fell into a deep sleep, and the doctor, moving from the side of the bed, beckoned Emily and Henry to him. "It is as I expected," he said, " his mind is unsettled; but that, in itself, need not alarm you. He is not likely to awake now, for some hours, after the composing draught he has taken; but I feel confident when he does, he will be quite collected. I must go down to those people, Henry, but do you not stir from this room."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,      343 "Ah!" said Henry, "I had forgotten them; are they in the house?" " The sheriff is, I suppose. I told Anthony to admit him. I will arrange this business. Stay, Henry, this is no time to speak. I came as fast as I could when this news reached me, by chance; but I have been too late to save my poor friend from this terrible shock. Emily, my love, you must promise to keep Henry here until I return. Oh! my child, try to keep up, and put your trust in God." it Doctor," said Henry, " if I remain, do you promise, that you will see Lyons is not admitted into my father's house." "If he enters, Henry, I will drive him forth with my own hand." As the doctor moved to the door, it was noiselessly opened, and Edward Vaughan stood in the doorway. Doc- tor Kelly seemed surprised, and looked at Henry. !"He came," said the latter, " to give us warning. He has been traveling all night on foot, from Galway, and he was in time, but for this unlucky accident." "Come in, Edward,)' said the doctor, "I am glad to see you; glad to find that I have not been disappointed in the good opinion I formed of you. You will sit with them, Ed- ward, while I am away. Remember, Henry, I have your promise that you will not stir from this room until my re- turn." Anthony O'Kelly, to whom word had been brought from time to time, as to Mr. Daly's state, rightly judged that the family would expect of him, in their absence, that he would see to having refreshments provided, not alone for the sheriff and officers, but likewise for the party of soldiers. Cornet Fortescue had, on his invitation, entered the house, shortly after the sheriff, leaving his men in charge of the sergeant, with instruction to have him called if any distur- bance should occur between the country people and the bailiffs, though none was apprehended. Lyons had sneaked into the house, and O'Keily did not interfere with him, fearing to cause the slightest noise. It may seem strange that, under the circumstances, O'Kelly should have deemed it necessary to offer refreshment to any of t]e party, but, under no circumstances, is the virtue of hospitality ever i   344   :   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.   overlooked in Ireland, and it is found in the house of mourn. ing, equally as in the house of joy. By O'Kelly's directions, two barrels of beer were rolled into the yard; a most acceptable sight to the soldiers, after their long march, who, dismounting from their horses, and supplied by the servants wiih various kinds of drinking vessels, commenced to drink, smoke and laugh; but, to their credit be it said, they were not noisy in their rude mirth, having been informed of the serious, illness of the master of the house. " We'll drink, my lads," said the sergeant, a speedy re. covery to the poor sick gentleman and confusion to a' lawyers. Matters thus stood in and about the house when Doctor Kelly entered the parlor. He shook hands with the sheriff and saluted young Fortescue, but Lyons, sitting at the far. ther end of the i oom, and partially concealed by the window curtains, he did not perceive. "c How is Mr. Daly now, doctor ?" asked the sheriff. " Poorly, Cuff, poorly," replied Dr. Kelly. "At present hle sleeps; but his race is nearly run, and his noble heart will soon be at rest."  4"I had no notion that he was so bad," said the sheriff. " I thought, perhaps, that he had fallen into a long swoon, and one of the servants informed us that he was recovering from it." "He has had a stroke of paralysis, Cuff. Whether he will partially recover from it, for a while, it is hard to say, and scarcely to be wished for. Who would ask to see that clear, generous mind clouded; that manly form a weary burthen? My God," he continued, seemingly communing with his own thoughts. "I have had many trials. I have seen the young, the good, the loving; they who never gave my heart one grief, but that of parting with themn,-I have seen them taken from me, in the morning of their lies; and now, the last and best beloved friend of my yout h,- he paused and then added: " I am very old, and if it was Thy will, I too, would be at rest." The old man's grief was so solemn and sacred, that none present thought of breaking in upon it with the customary    TTHE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN..     345 words of consolation; but, after a little, he aroused himself to attend to that which brought him into their presence. " How much is this execution for, Cuff?" he asked of the sheriff. " O'Kelly told you, did he not, that I would settle it? " " Yes," replied the sheriff, " I wish you had been here an hour earlier. The amount is, let me see."  He pulled out his pocket-book, but before he could open it, Lyons stepped forward. " The amount, my dear sir," said the latter, "is six hundred and thirty-three pounds, four shillings and six pence. I assure you, Doctor Kelly, that" But the old man sprung to his legs as he exclaimed: "Who allowed this man into the house? What brought you here ? How dare you, sir, enter these doors ? Lyons had started back, when the doctor first opened at him, but recovering himself, he answered sulkily, I have a right to be here."' "You lie, you scoundrel," replied the old man. "I have, until the execution is settled." "Here, Cuff," said the doctor, turning to the sheriff, "take this pocket-book. There are eight hundred pounds in it; count them, and pay yourself. Are you satisfied ?" " I would be willing to take your word for five times the amount," said the sheriff. " Here is the execution." The doctor took it, and throwing it upon the fire, stamped upon it with his heel. He then turned to Lyons. "Leave this room, this house, at once," he said.  "Your presence would pollute u dog-kennel." "But," said Lyons, attempting to speak,  - "Not a word," said the old man, advancing towards him. "Leave at once; or, if I am too old to drive you hence, I will call those who will do so. But I think I am strong enough yet, to kick a scoundrel like you." As he advanced, Lyons retreated' and when the latter reached the door, he opened it, and fairly bolted. The doc- tor banged the door after him. "Faugh," he said. " The presence of the hateful, sneak- ng villain would stifle me. . Now, Cuff, give mea 'receipt, I am in a hurry to return   S46      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. to my friend's room. You will excuse me, young gen. tleman, for my rudeness," he added, addressing Cornet Fortescue. "Don't mention it, doctor," replied Fortescue, " you did quite right, and egad, I would have been half inclined to help you if it was necessary."  "Here is your pocket-book, doctor," said the sheriff, " you can be counting the money while I am writing out a re. ceipt." When Lyons found himself in the hall, he stood irreso. lute, not knowing where to go, for he by no means relished the idea of leaving the house without the protection of the sheriff or officer. At this moment, Edward, who had been sent of a message, came running down stairs, and did not see his uncle until his foot was upon the last step. Lyons darted forward and caught the boy by the collar. "Ha!" he exclaimed, in tones of triumph, "I have you you traitor. Come along with me; I have an accountto settle with you. Oh, wait until I get you home!" * ' Let me out," cried Edward, struggling, "I will not go with you; let me out, there are those near that will make you do so, if I call upon them." 6"You lie, you traitor," hissed Lyons, " you devil's whelp, you are mine, and no one dare interfere between us." The words were but spoken when a" powerful hand wheeled him round and Henry Daly, grasping him by the throat, exclaimed: "Speak but in a whisper, and, by my hopes of heaven, I will strangle you on the spot. Open the door, Edward," he continued, as he dragged Lyons forward; then, using all his strength, he hurled him with such force from his hand that the attorney went spinning round, like a top, for some dis- tance, and then fell heavily on his face upon the gravel, in front of the house, The passion which Henry had so well mastered, for the last few hours, now had full sway; the hot blood of his race mounted to his face, and the same bright sparks I hlave no. ticed as in Godfrey Daly's eyes, flashed from his son's. He leaped forward to where Lyons lay, expecting to see him rise, but the latter, at this moment, deemed discretion the   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN.      847 better part of valor, so he merely rolled upon his back, call- ing loudly for help. Henry's limbs quivered with rage, as he saw himself thus baffled by the cowardice of the man; he spat in his face, as he exclaimed: - "Oh! that you had the heart of a man, that I might tear it from your body." But, though Henry Daly would not touch the fallen pol- troon, there were those Who had no such generous forbear- ance. Delighted at the opportunity given to them by Henry's violence, the country people rushed forward, and it would have gone hard with Lyons, but that, at the same moment, Doctor Kelly, the s;heriff and Cornet Fortescue, hearing the noise, came running firom the house and rescued him fromi the hands of the infuriated crowd;not, ohowever, before he received a deep cut in the liead. "Henry--Henry," said Dr. Kelly, "is this the way you have kept your promise to me?" "I could not) help it, Dr. Kelly," answered Henry. "' I found this fellow dragging his nephew out of the house, and threatening him wit;h his vengeance when he should have him in his power. Was I to allow this, when it was in en- deavoring to save us the boy incurred his anger '?" "He is my nephew," said Lyons, as he wiped the blood from his face. "I am his natural guardian. His parents left him in my charge."' "And well you have fulfilled the trust," replied Henry. "But stay," he continued, "6 I have no timne to waste with you. Come here, Edward." The boy advanced from the door. "You see that man; you have heard what he said. Do you wish to go with him?"t "No," replied Eldward, "I will never return to him; lihe would murder me if I did so; lie ]1as no claim upon mle." "You hear him," said Henry, addressing Lyons, " now lis- ten to me. If he were willinll to return with you, I would not allow it, for I feel assured you would murder him, as he says--murder hinm by that slow torture which leaves no mark, and so cheat the hangman. I am lawyer enough to know that you have no legal claim upon him ; but:, rather, 22    848      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, that you should be punished for the shameful way you have abused the trust confided to you by his parents, and,so help me God, Edward," he continued, taking the boy's hand, ' for the brave effort you have made this day in our behalf, you shall never want a home as long as Henry Daly has one to shelter him. Silence, sir," he exclaimed, stamping his foot upon the ground, as Lyons attempted to speak, "silence, I say, and leave thts place, at once, if you care for your safety." Then bowing to the others, he entered the house, still holding Edward by the hand. CHAPTER XXV. The rude intruders had departed, and the old place as. sumed its usual tranquil look, as the shades of evening fell around it. The plowman whistled as he returned from the tillage field; the crows, from lofty trees, cawed to each other a welcome home, and the robin and thrush sang their mat- ins to the early spring. Anon, those sounds died away; the sun went down, and twilight, its pale, melancholy sister, glided over the earth. Yet, the change of light was all un- noticed by her who sat at the bedside of Godfrey Daly. In tile morning of her existence the night of sorrow had come to her, and the torch of hope, which her love had lighted, lay smoldering and dark at her feet. Many circumstances had tended to make Emily Daly, in her ideas and aspirations, differ from the generality of girls of her age. She had never known a mother's love, but its absence left no void in her heart; nay, it may almost be said, that it was not absent, for the love of Godfrey Daly   THE DALYSOF DALYSTOWN       349 for his fair child, was full of gentle, womanly tenderness. His voice it was that sang the lullaby which closed her in- fant eyes. The same hand with :which he had so softly smoothed the bright curls of his little darling, as she nestled in his breast, in after years supported her with manly strength, when she took her first lessons in equestrian exer- cise; and it seemed, to the young girl, something beautiful to dwell upon and compare those two loves, as it were to listen to the sweet, endearing tones of his voice and to gaze upon his tall, manly form, so fitted by nature to protect her weakness. No wonder, then, that she should return this two-fold love with corresponding affection, and that a love, great enough for two parents, was all his. Her virgin heart had never known another, to clash with this one; none, that, like a torrent, might hlave swept over its calm, placid beauty. The love of sister and brother were two pure streams, meet- ing in gentle harmony, uniting and flowing in augmented strength to their parent's heart. It was sad that love like this, which angels might have owned to, could not ward off the sorrow which crushed that heart; it was frenzy to feel how great and mighty it was, in its truth, and yet how weak and powerless to defend its idol; it was agony, deep agony, to think that had a little time been given them to have put yesterday's plans into execution-how bright that yesterday appeared now--they might have saved him. Such thoughts passed through the mind of the young girl, as she watched over her father's uneasy sleep. For min. ntes she would gaze upon his face, noting the expression that had fixed about his mouth, so like, and yet so unlike a smile, until, no longer able to bear such mocking agony, she would cover her face with her hands, again to remove them, again to peer forward, and see by the fitful, gloomy twilight, that unreal, rigid smile upon the worn features of him, whom, above all others, she loved. Poor child, her first great earthly sorrow had fallen and crushed her to the earth. As she thus watchedl Henry entered the room, and taking lier hand in both his own, sat down beside her; then brother   350      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. and sister gazed upon the sleeper, and into each other's faces. "We are going to lose him, Henry," said Emily, in a whis. per, and her voice had that slow, calm tone, which sorrow, bereft of hope, often commands. "I know it by Doctor Kelly's looks, and the few words he has spoken, but most of all, by my own heart. You, too, have had warning. Is it not so, my poor brother?' "Hush, hushr my darling sister, let us hope, let us hope." "Ah, Henry, there is no hope in your eyes or in your heart. How proud le was of you, Henry; he loved us both equally well; but oh! lhe was so proud of vou!" "Emily, Emily, spealk not this way; my father may recover. The doctor has not told us not to hope." "' Henry," she replied, creeping closer to his side, "I can- not explain to you how I know it, but" "But what, Emily?" "I know, I feel, Henry, that death is near to us-in this very room. Oh, my God!" l1enry folded her shivering form in his arms. Presently she looked up. "A  I not very silly, Henry?" she said, with a laugh that thrilied him with horror. "Silly pussy; is it not so? But you must not laugh, Henry. The doctor, you know, told us how quiet we should keep the room; and here he comes, himself," she added, as the old gentleman entered the room. "Oh, doctor," whispered Henry, " look at Emily. I fear she has lost her senses." No, no, Henry," replied the doctor, "she is only a little hysterical; it will pass away. I sent for Mrs. Kelly, to stay with lier, and she lhas just arrived. Emily," he contin- ued, "there is a person waiting to see you." "To see mne, doctor!" she answered, as she gave him her hand. "WYou ave alway's some joke, doctor; but not now-- not now;--indeecd you must not have one now." Outside the door, thlley found Mrs. Kelly. As Emily felt herself. folded in the old lady's arms, the symvpathy of one of her own sex acted as a soothing balm on her over-wrought nerves, and she wept long and bitterly, on the bosom of her aged friend.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      351 Leaving her in charge of his wife, the doctor returned to the room. He found Henry bending over his father, while big tears chased each other down his cheeks. In the presence of his sister, he had endeavored to command him- self, but when left alone, it was a great relief thus to give way to his grief. The doctor touched his arm. "You must retire for a little, Henry," he said. "He will soon awake, and when he does, he must see nothing to dis- turb his mind. We must endeavor, gradually, to restore its tone, which this shock has all unstrung; one sigh or tear, falling upon its newly-awakened chords, might make it jar again. I will remain here alone; I have stationed Edward outside the door. I will summon you and Emily the mo- ment it is safe to do so." A servant now, entered with a lighted candle, for it was, by this time, nearly dark; the doctor took it from her hanld and placed it so that its light would not affect his patient. As he was adjusting it, Henry approached him. "Doctor," he said, you have not told Emily, or myself, that my father is dying." "No, Henry," replied the old man, startled by his words, and the sad foreboding tone in which they were spoken. Not that I would deceive you for a moment. He has had a severe stroke of paralysis, too severe for one in his low state of health, but its final result, I cannot, as yet, judge of." - "And yet I feel it, doctor, and Emily feels it." "Feels what, Henry?" "That he is dying, doctor. That the heart which loved us so well, will soon be cold in death." ' Tut, Henry, this is but the phantom of your fear." "So I should say if it had come to me but to-day ; but for a long time past, I have felt that we should lose him." "For a long time past, Henry, you have had much to fret you, and to give you those gloomy thoughts." "All which you now say, doctor, I have' said over and over again to myself; but reason as I would against this thought; banish it as I would, it has ever returned. Just now, as I looked upon him, methought it had a voice, for as truly as I tell it to you, I heard, distinctly, the death cry outside the window."   352      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWIN. "You heard the wind, that has arisen since night fall, Henry. Hear it now, how it wails around the house." 'I hear it, doctor, but it is not the same as that I heard just now.," "I thought," replied Doctor Kelly, " that you were above such idle superstitions ; your education should make you so." Alh, doctor," replied Henry, '  how far can education and knowledge assist us to penetrate the mysteries around us? No farther than to show us that they are mysteries. You know the old tradition, in our family, that when one of its members is about to die, the banshee is heard and seen. No doubt you will say it is an idle, foolish superstition, and yet, having heard it said from my infancy, and firmly be. lieving it when a boy, it occurred to my mind when that low, strange cry arose under the window." As he ceased speaking, both gentlemen started, for clear and distiJnct, above the night wind, came the tones of a worllan's voice, in lamentation. When first heard, it seemed as if she was passing rapidly under the windows of the room in which they were, and presently afterwards the voice died away in the distance. The doctor and Henry looked at one another and the former said: "It is some poor woman who has been inquiring for your father; go, Henry, and caution the servants not to allow a repetition of tihis." Witlhout replying, Henry went over to his father's bed- side and knelt down; when he arose he said to the doctor: 1' I will leave, as you think it riglit for me to do so, and will not return until you call me; but let it be soon, my good doctor, for this is my place, until the will of God is made known to us." He then left the room, but he neither went to caution the servants, as I)octor Kelly had directed, nor,into the parlori where he had left O'Kelly, but, taking his hat off the hall table, lie opened the door softly and went out.'  : As the doctor had remarked, the wind had risen since nightfall, and the appearance of the sky denoted a coming storm. The clouds swept in rapid flight, now in white vapors, which became transparent as they passed over the moonl, then, again, in darker bodies, through which she could   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,     ;3  be indistinctly traced, seeming to cleave her way through the surrounding darkness, until again bursting forth upon the clear patches of sky. It was a wild night, with a wild sky in which no stars were visible--yet, not without beauty- desolate, wild and haggard, and strangely in unison with the feelings of him who now gazed upon it. Uncoverir g his head, he stood for sometime looking up to the sky, and letting the wind blow freely upon his fevered brow. As he thus stood, the phantom wail he had heard twice befobre, struck upon his ear; this time accompanied by these words: ,' Voh! voh!--Godfrey Daly-Godfrey Daly." The voice seemed to come from a shrubbery, adjoining the house. With a quick step, Henry advanced. "I will find out the meaning of this," he said. "Surely my senses did not deceive me; the words were plain and distinct." As he entered the shrubbery, he had to pause, for a mass of dark clouds at that moment came over the moon, but in a few moments they had passed, and objects around again became visible. A' cold shudder crept to his heart, for be- fore him, revealed by the flitting light, was the figure of a small female, wearing a gray cloak, with the hood thrown back. Her features were concealed by her long hair, which she seemed, from the motion of her hand, to be combing down. As Henry gazed, her plaintive wail rose and fell with the night wind; now high, now low, but ever full of sorrow, and wild, melancholy pathos. Summoning all his nerve, he advanced towards her; but, as he did so, the clouds again came over the moon and a gust of wind, far greater than any of those which had preceded it, swept past him. So great was its force, that he would have been thrown to the ground had he not-caught hold of the branches of a tree close by him. The storm was at its height, and the tall trees swayed and moaned as they en- countered its fury. When Henry looked again, the phantom woman was gone, borne away, as it appeared to his heated imagination, upon the wings of the mighty wind; for far away, in the distance, he still heard her wail, amidst the crash of falling trees which the storm was uprooting in its mad career.   354      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Hlenry Daly was brave of heart, but now he had to lean against the tree by which he stood, while a clammy perspi- ration bathed his forehead; yet it was not fear that thus unmanned him, but t':at he believed he had just heard the death-knell of his father. All that passed may, indeed, have been the creation of his excited feelings, but, at the time it appeared to him frightfully real. Big drops of Tain now began to fall, but lie heeded them not. Thus he remained for some time, the rain beating on his uncovered head, his mind a blank, with the exception of the one spectral thought of his father's approaching death, crushing it down. At length he was startled from this trance-like state by a voice saying close to him: "Oh, voh! volh! voh!"He turned and saw Tom Gallaher beside him. "And you heard her, too, asthore," said Tom. "Sure I see by you you have; everyone in and about the house heard her. Oh! Mr. Henry, this is a black night for the old place. Come in, agra, you're all wet, and the doctor is ask- ing for you." Henry roused himself. "Tom," he said, as he walked towards the house, " mention to no one how you found me. I felt a little unwell and weak, but it has passed away. "I understand you, Mr. Henry," replied Tom. "Never a word will I say about it. May God help you this night, alanna." When they reached the house, Tom directed his steps to the yard. Entering one of the stables, he saddled a horse, and, mounting him, rode down the avenue. He was going for a priest, by the doctor's directions. Henry found Anthony O'Kelly waiting for him at the hall door. "Your father is awake, Henry," said the latter. "The doctor and Emily are with him." Henry, on hearing this, was rushing past O'Kelly, when his friend detained him. "Stay, Henry," he said; "the doctor has just told me to caution you to approach your father quietly and self-possessed. He is quite collected, but very weak; and-and, Henry, when you take his hand, be sure it is the left one you take." "Why so 2" "Henry, I fear the right one is powerless."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       355 "Oh! poor--poor father!" on Come," said O'Kelly, placing his arm within that of his friend, " be a man, Henry. Lean on me, my poor fellow. Courage!-courage!--my brave Henry. Come, he has been asking for you." Thus encouraging and supporting him, O'Kelly led him up stairs. When they entered the room, Doctor Kelly and Emnily were standing by Mr. Daly's bedside. The form of the latter was slightly raised, and supported by pillows. As the door opened, he turned his eyes towards it, and when he saw who it was that entered, a flush of feeling-of pleasure, came to his face. Henry hurried forward. "Father!" was all he was able to say; while in his grief, forgetful of O'Kelly's warning, he took the hand next to him. "Not that one, Henry," said Mr. Daly, in a broken whis- per, while a pained expression crossed his features. "The left-the left; nearest the heart, my beloved boy." "How do you feel, father?" "Well, Henry, but for you and Emily. It is hard to part with you, my children. For the rest, I trust in the mercy of my Saviour, and fear not death." "Godfrey, you must not thus despond," said Doctor Kelly. "With God's assistance you will rally, and recover from this shock." "To linger, James, a few years, or months, perhaps, a shattered, helpless wreck. Better, James, if it is God's will, to drift out to the ocean, than lie stranded and moldering upon the shore." Whilst Mr. Daly was speaking, Emily and Henry knelt by the bed, and with their heads bent down, wept in silence. He placed his hand alternately on the heads of his children. "They will want a friend, James," he said, " when I am gone. By our life's friendship, I conjure you to be that friend." Vanquished by grief, despite all his efforts at self-com- mand, Doctor Kelly was unable to reply; but, stooping down, he imprinted a long, fervent kiss on the lips of his friend. There was something most solemn and beautiful in this,   356      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. his acceptance of the trust. He remembered, when a boy, pushing aside the rich curls of Godfrey Daly, (then a very young child,) and kissing his cheek. This was the comrn mencement of their friendship. Years had passed since then, and now he kissed the withered lips of his aged friend. What precious, true, ennobling friendship was this; coma mencing on the threshold of life, keeping pace with life's journey, now ratified and renewed, as they stood upon the shores of the unknown, inscrutable eternity, the shadow of whose dark portal already rested on the head of one of the pilgrims. "I am forgetting my craft," said the doctor, shaking off the weakness that for a time had overcome him, " and allow you to be too much excited, Godfrey. Hand me that glass, Emily." O'Kelly was about to go to the table for it. "No, Antho- ny," whispered the doctor, " the more little offices she gets to do, the better." Then he addressed Henry in a low voice. "See," he said, "if the messenger sent for Doctor Whistler has returned. Ie should have been here hours ago. Now, Godfrey, take' this drink, and rest a little; you must not speak much, until your strength returns somewhat." He held the drink to Mr. Daly's lips, who, with difficulty drank a little, which seemed to revive him ; after which he lay back and closed his eyes. Suddenly he opened them, and asked what the hour was. "It' is past ten," replied Dr. Kelly "You have sent for Father Roach, James?" he enquired. "Yes, Godfrey." "I would that he were here," said the sick man.. '"!Ie will be presently, Godfrey. Tom is a good messen- ger." "Ah! poor Tom," said Mr. Daly. Just then Henry returned, and whispered to the doctor. The eyes of the sick man followed every motion of his son. "What is it. Henry?" he asked. "I fear, Godfrey," answered Dr. Kelly, "that Dr. Whist- ler cannot be here before morning." "It matters not," he replied, "but I would that the priest were comer                      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      357 I, He will be here immediately, Godfrey. Compose yourself, my friend, to see him." After again taking a little of the contents of the glass, which Emily held to his lips, and addressing a few words to O'Kelly, Mr. Daly closed his eyes, and his lips moved in prayer. Whilst he was thus engaged, the doctor and An- thony O'Kelly spoke from time to time, in whispers, and Henry, with his arm 'encircling his sister's waist, stood at tile foot of the bed.' Presently was heard the sound of wheels upon the gravel, outside. , That is Father Roach," said Mr. Daly, " go, dear Henry, and receive him.'Y "Shall I bring him here at once, father?" 'Yes, my son.' Henry left the room and returned in a few minutes accompanied by the priest. Mr. Daly, whose strength seemed partially restored, held out his hand to the latter. 'You are welcome, Father Roach, " he said, "'always welcome, but never more so than now." The clergyman took his hand and held it affectionately between his own, whilst his countenance showed that he was both shocked and grieved to find Mr. Daly so terribly shattered. The latter remarked the look. "You see, Father Roach," he said, what a change a few hours have wrought in mle." "You must, indeed, have had a severe attack," replied the clergyman, but, with the help of God, I hope you will get over it." Mr. Daly shook his head sadly. "We will now leave you for a little while, Godfrey, with Father Roach,' said Doctor Kelly. "Yes, yes, James," replied Mr. Dalv. "Some of us will remain near at hand," said the doctor, addressing the priest, should you require anything," Before quitting the room, Emily and Henry kissed thlleir father, and his eyes followed them greedily, until the door closed. "You cannot know," he said, addressing the clergyman, 'how good and loving they are, or how dear to me." "Then," replied the priest, " if it is the will of God that   358      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. you should be taken from them, how great a consolation must it be to you, at such a moment, to know that God has promised to reward, even in this world, filial affection." The clergyman remained for more than an hour alone with Mr. Daly. When those who had retired, were again admitted to the room, they found the latter apparently much revived; he had received the rites of the Catholic church, and no doubt the fact of his mind being soothed by the consolations of religion, had a salutary effect on his nervous system. The doctor's face brightened; the sad presentiments which had chilled the hearts of Emily and Henry, seemed now, to them, about to prove unfounded, and the latter would fain believe that the phantom woman and her wild lament were but the creations of a mind, overburdened with grief. So easy is it, to rekindle hope in the humal heart. After some time, the doctor looked at his watch. "It is twelve o'clock," he said. "' You must endeavor to get some rest, Godfrey. Emily," he continued, "remove some of these pillows. Let me support you, Godfrey, while she does so. You will be more likely to sleep, when in a position you are accustomed to. What is this Shakspeare says about sleep?--' Sleep that knits up the ravelled sleeve of care."' He spoke thus, anxious, as much as possible, to divert Mr. Daly's attention (as he changed his position,) from the calamity which had befallen him; the truth being, that his right side was completely paralyzed and dead. Perhaps Mr. Daly saw through the doctor's little ruse, for though a faint flush came to his face, as his arm fell powerless to his side, when the pillows on which it rested were removed, he made no remark on the circumstance, but smiled affec. tionately on Emily, as she adjusted the bed covering. . "You and the doctor are tender nurses, love," he said; "rnay God bless my darling." The slight exertion of changing his position seemed to have weakened him, and Doctor Kelly begged that he would try to get a little sleep. "Father Roach has promised me, James, to remain here to-night." ,   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN.      359 "So he tells me, Godfrey. We will all be near you, but it is absolutely necessary that you should not converse any more until you have slept."  , Well, James," replied Mr. Daly, "I will try and do so." After some time, he slumbered, and though no one in the house thought of retiring to rest, there was a general still. ness maintained in and around it. The storm had subsided, and no sound broke upon the stillness of the night, save the sighing of the exhausted wind. Mr. Daly's sleep was short and disturbed, and when he awoke he complained of a pain in the head. After this, although he slept not, he fell into a drowsy, lethargic state. From time to time the doctor administered stimulants to him, but they seemed to have no effect, and he sank rapidly. Thus passed the night, during which Henry often found him- self listening, with a kind of fascinated dread, for the un- earthly voice which had so- much disturbed him; but he heard it not again. It was now the dark hour which precedes the break of day, when Mr. Daly beckoned the doctor over to him. "I am sinking fast, James," he said, "I would speak to my children. I would bless them while I have voice to do so. I bless themn ever in my heart, but I know they would wish to have it from my lips ere they are closed in death." "Father," said Henry, as he and Emily knelt by the bed- side, " we are here." Mr. Daly stretched forth his hand, and, as his children bathed it with their tears, he said: "Heavenly Father, thou knowest hlow dutiful and! lov- ing these thou gavest to me, have been. Sinner thollgh I am, let a father's blessing have efficacy with thee. Alas!" he continued, " how little have I deserved the love which they have lavished upon me. Oh! my son, my son, can you forgive me, for leaving you but a beggared inheritance '" Henry rose to his feet, his face -glowing with generous warmth. "Wrong not yourself, my father," he said, " by such words as these. If there is merevy'in my heart for the unfortunate, sympathy for the oppressed, and scorn for the base, it was you, my father, who stamped these feelings on my young   360      TH E DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. mind. If truth and virtue are dearer to me than life, if the richest prize which the world could bestow would weigh nItrllit, when placed in the scale against my honor, as a gentleman, it is that, even before I could appreciate the beauty and value of these, in themselves, I had learned to love them as belonging to my father. You might, indeed, have checked the generous impulses of your heart, and found yourself estolled for prudence. You might have oppressed the poor, and thereby enriched yourself; nay, had you be- come a parasite to your country, and a traitor to your God, the path which leads to high places was open to you; and your talents would lhave enabled you to outstrip the throng that crowd the track; but choose now, my father, between these between what you have done, and what you miliht have done ; and say which you would leave, as an inherit ance, to your children. 'The lire blood that had been growing cold and stagnant around the heart of Goadfrey Daly, quickened with a pulse, at the words of his son, and flowing once more throughl the deserted veins, mounted to the pallid cheek, to thanlk Ihim. "Raise me up," said the dying man, " until I listen to the music of my boy's voice." They raised him gently up, and his eyes fell upon the form of his daughter, who had thrown herself across the foot of the bed. "All, poor pussy," he murlnured. "Come here, my dar- ling. Did you not hear those brave words of Henry's, and have you naught to say " "I father,' she exclaimed, in wild grief, as she flung her arms around his neck. "I love you! Oh, God, you will not take him from us?" "It was even so with her mother," he whispered. She would ever thus endeavor to shield me with her love. I o to join her, Emily, for even now, my boy has pleaded ; me, with God. Kiss me, my children, once more-once more-yet, once more. Bless you-bless you-and you will be blessed." He lay for a few minutes, silent, in the arms of his child ren; then he said,  "Take her, Henry. In your charge I leave this tender   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      361 flower. And now, my children and friends, you will leave me alone, for a short time, with the good priest.,' They did so, Henry supporting the form of his sister, as they left the room. It might have been about half an hour after this, when the clergyman hurried into the room, in which they waited. "Come quick," he said to the doctor. "He has got a sud- den change." Dr. Kelly hastened from the room, followed by Henry, Emily, and most of the household, who had gathered there. The doctor threw back the curtains of the bed. Godfrey Daly lay upon his side, his head resting upon his hand. He was dead. He had died without a struggle, for his features were calm, and his eyes partially closed. One wild scream, and Dr. Kelly turned in time, to catch the fainting form of Emily in his arms. "Thus," said the priest, solemnly, 'do the just go to sleep!" As he spoke, the sun, which had risen a short time be- fore, flung its rays into the room. "And thus,' said the doctor, pointing to the open window through which it was visible, "thus do they awaken to a glorious resurrection." CHAPTER XXVI. Six weeks had passed since Godfrey Daly's death, and spring, beautiful spring; more beautiful than the poet's dream, fully robed in her mantle of green, was upon the earth. Fair, bright priestess of nature I She had first visit-   862       THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWTN. ed the meadow fields, and scattered the chaste snow-drops and daffodils along her path; then to gardens, and down in tangled brakes and hidden dells; along'thick hedges, and up 'bridle paths ; by roadside walks, and higl^vays and by. ways, searching for the sleeping flowers,a whispering to them, awake! Then, from meadow andfgarden, from brake and dell, went up the fresh, pure incense of nature's prayer to God. None of the other seasons move the heart like spring; children, with shouts and laulghter, welcome this, their young, blooming sister. The poor drudge, to whom the lengthen. ing day will bring but increase of toil, thinks not of the summer sun, that will burn upon his brow, as he rejoices, without knowing wherefore, in the very conscioisness of existence. Nor is it the presence of opening flowers, sweet scents, bright skies, or the thousand melodies of birds, which alone move him. Something, more mysterious than that which affects the senses, bids him rejoice; for his brother drudge, who toils in the crowded city, burrowing in its dark lanes, where sun rays never fall -he, too, feels this mysteo rious lightening of the heartt. He feels that beyond the smokly city, there is spring; and rejoicing that one blessed day, at least, belongs not to toil, he and his pale wife, and little children, (poor buds, drooping ere thev have blossom- ed,) go forth, outside the noisy town, to walk by green hedges, rest on thick daisy carpets, and listen to the songs of birds. And there comes to the heart of the toil-worn man, a whispering of a brighter spring, whose flowers shall never fade, whose music, no night shall silence. Yet, there is a sorrow which the spring-time seems to mock. When the grave has just closed over the beloved, we are apt to feel jealous of the abundant life that spring brings forth; the trees have resumed their foliage, the birds their songs, the flowers their perfume ; nay, the very insects that winter had buried deep in snowy graves, have returned to life, but they shall never return. Such was the sorrow of Emily and Henry Daly, in the first days of their mourning,--a sorrow so intense and full, that it scarcely left room in the heart of the latter for a new grief -which had come to him.,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      363 Emily had often, in her letters to Rose O'Donnell, alluded to the declining health of her father, brought on, she had no doubt, by anxiety of mind, in consequence of the em- barrassed state of his affairs, and Rose would ponder over those letters until, in her nervous grief, she looked upon herself as the obstacle to the happiness of those so dear to her. "If Henry did not love me," she would argue with her- self, " what is there to prevent him from marrying some rich girl, and thus free his-father from those debts which, as poor Emiily writes, are bringing him to the grave." Thus arcguing, she, with a fortitude equal to the Roman of old, who leaped from the light of day,--determined to break off all inter- course with the Dalystown family. "When mly very name shall have ceased to be mentioned," she said, "he will forget this foolish love, and find happi- ness with one more suited to him." And yet, (oh strange contradiction of human nature,) it was the hope of not being forgotten by him, of still being beloved by him, which, like a miser's treasure, she hid even from her own sight, which sustained her in this bitter strug- gle between love and duty. While debating in her own mind, how best to effect her object, an opportunity to do so unexpectedly offered. A brother of Mr. Kirwan's died about' this time, in America, leaving some landed property which the latter became entitled to, and as his business in Liver- pool brought him but a precarious income, he resolved to emigrate to his newly acquired property. Her aunt invited Rose to share their fortunes, and as it seemed to the young girl that Providence approved of her resolve, by thus giving her so good an opportunity of putting it into execution, she accepted the invitation, to the great joy of the whole family, but not without many a pang and struggle in her own heart. On the eve of her departure she wrote a farewell letter to Henry. She had a tfirst intended to have written to Doctor Kelly, or to Emily,but then, again, she thought, that as she was giving up all, forsaking all she loved. she might be pardoned the human weakness of speakinfg, as it were tnce more to her ].over ere an ocean rolled between them and their loves. It must be remembered that Rose deemed this 23 I   O0       TiHE DALITS OF DALYSTOWN. parting final. A voyage to America was looked upon by the emigrant, even at so late a period as the one I write of, as an eternal separation from country and friends. The Atlan. tic had not, as yet, become a highway for steamers, to pass back and forward with the regularity of stage coaches. Be. lieving, then, that she should never more behold him, she poured out the whole love of her heart, in bidding him fare. well. While she told him to forget her, and look upon her as dead, she showed him how his image alone should ever fill her heart. Had Rose been the most artful of her sex, educated by the most manoeuvring of mammas, she could not possibly have written a letter more likely to counteract the object it purported to have in view; and yet, in doing so, she was innocent of all guile. Art, at best, is but a poor copyist of nature, and shcceeds but in proportion as it ap. proaches the original. Rose did one thing, however, that the carefully educated young lady never would do. She concealed from Henry what part of America Mr.. Kirwan was going to settle in, and she was well aware, that, beyond his name, the Dalystown family knew nothing of him, knew not if he had friends in England or Ireland, to whom they might apply. No, nothing of the kind, so she firmly believed that she was leaving behind not one clue by which her lover could find her out; that he would attempt to follow her was a thing she scarcely dreamed of. It is believed by woman, that man's love can never be as strong as her own; herein I differ from the fair sex. I deem that man's love can be as strong and lasting as woman's, but, scarcely ever, so self-sacrificing. Generally, his best and warmest affections are alloyed with' self-love; woman's are all pure gold, fresh from the heart's mint. Rose's letter was mailed on the day she sailed for Amer. ica, and reached Dalystown the day after Mr. Daly's funeral. Henry read it, word for word, more than once. So dull was his heart with grief, that it seemed almost a relief, when a fresh weapon was flung from the armory of sorrow, to sting it into sensitiveness. A week elapsed ere he showed this letter to Emily. "I always knew, Henry," she said, as she handed it back to him, " that she loved you dearly. Alas! sihe has made a sacrifice, now unnecessary." J.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      365 "Dear Emily," replied her brother, "let us not tallUof this now, I love her, heaven knows how truly and wel but it seems to me like profanation to speak of such tnig now, or to think of aught but of him whom we have lost." "Yes, dear brother," she answered. "And, oh! the thou- sand chances that life has, of turning sorrow into joy, but the grave gives naught back." Six weeks had passed since Emily and. Henry had held this short conversation, and since then the subject was never resumed by either. It was a calm, lovely evening. Henry sat by his sister's side, holding her hand in his. Edward Vaughan stood at one of the windows of the room, his heart in happy unison with the scene without. Old Carlo lay at Henry's feet; Emily's eyes rested upon him and a tear stole silently down her cheek. Henry observed it, and the direction of her eyes. a' Come here, Carlo," he said, ' poor fellow."s The dog arose, placed his head on Henry's knee, and looked up wistfully into his face. "My good dog. Had you him out to-day, Edward?2 "'No,' replied the boy. "I did my best to coax him out, but he would not follow me." "I do believe, Henry," said Emily, " that he misses him." "I am sure he does, Emily. Edward,"' he continued, it seems a beautiful evening; you should be out, and not cooped up in the house. Go and take a ramble, and per- haps Carlo will go with you now." "I wish." said Edward, " you would come out for a walk." "Do, dear Henry," said Emily, 1' you will lose your health by remaining in the house." "Indeed he will," said Edward. "Do come out." "'Not this evening, Edward; some other time." '"That is what you always say," replied the disappointed boy. "Well, do not ask me now, but get your cap, and Carlo will go with you. Go with him, old fellow. Go with him, good dog."' The dog evidently understood what was said to him, for he looked at Edward, and when the boy put on his cap, he followed him out of the house.   366      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Left alone, Henry and his sister remained for some time silent; and so absorbed had they become with their own thoughts, that they did not perceive Doctor Kelly entering the room. The closing of the door broke the spell, and as the doctor advanced, both rose to meet him. But the bright smile with which he was wont to greet them, was no longer on the old man's face, and the elasticity of his step was gone. In this room, at least, his countenance could never again -wear its old smile, and his step would hence. forth grow heavy, as h'e crossed its threshold. "I have driven over to spend the evening with you," he said, seating hmself. "I find that neither' of you have ac. ceded to my request."' "HHow so, doctor?"' aslked Henry. "I have just met Edward Vaughan. He' tells me you never stir out. Henry, this must not be." "Indeed, doctor," said Emily, "I thought to persuade Henry to go out this evening. As for me, I am accustomed to confinement, and the idea of going out now is hateful to me.") "Nevertheless, you must do so. But Henry should set you the example. The grief you feel-and which you have so good a right to feel--endears you the more. to my heart; but youL must not let it become a selfish sorrow." "Selfish1!" exclailmed Henry. "Grief becomes selfish," replied the old man, " when we allow it to incapacitate us for the duties of life. You have no right to say to yourself, 'I take no interest now, in any- thing;' for while we are in the world, we have duties to perform in it." "But not just now, dear doctor," said Henry. "We must have al litt, le!tle, ere, we do as you say. The sound of his footsteps have scarcely yet; died away in our home." Emily wept bitterly at her brother's words, and the doc- tor himself was so affected that he had to pause before he replied. "Alas! Henry,' he said, "few of us are so situated that we can wail:, until time has closed the wound which death inflicts, before resuming, our armor. Most of us have to go forth to fight life's battle, while it is yet open and bleeding.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     3q67 It is so with you; and I have come here this evening to speak with you of your future plans-to consult with Em- ily and you relative to them, and to guide you, to the best of my ability and judgment. Come, we will take a turn in the park, and Emily will have tea ready for us on our re- turn; after which we will speak together of your future prospects. I have already. formed my own judgment on a course which I will propose to you-one that I think will tend to the future happiness of both. But you shall judge for yourselves. You have a choice to make, for fortunately. it is not the only one open to you." Henry could not refuse the doctor, and as the two stroll- ed down the avenue, they met Edward Vaughan returning to the house. "Turn back with us, my boy," said the doctor, and he soon had him telling one of the many sea stories he had heard from his father, in years past. Edward related them with spirit, and even Henry became interested. "Upon my word, Edward," said the doctor, "you have a good memory. I could almost imagine I was listening to a son of Neptune, spinning his yarns; you omit not a phrase. I believe you are, ' to the manner born,' a seaman." ' I am a sailor's son, sir," replied Edward. "And a brave good man he was, my boy, by your account of him. An upright, honest, brave man, Henry, he appears to have been, from those little traits of character, the boy mentions. Keep his memory green in your heart, my child, it will be a guide and support to you in the trials you may neet with in life. We will return to the house, Henry; the evening grows chilly." By the time they joined Emily, she had tea prepared for them. During the meal, the doctor conversed with the young people, and -although it would be inappropriate to apply the term cheerful to his conversation, still, it was of that agreeable nature that soothes, where cheerfulness would but wound. He had a most happy talent of conceal- ing his own sorrow, whilst administering consolation to others; and I know not but that those whose words fall, like dew, upon the crushed heart, making its drooping flowr ers revive, are better deserving of monuments than the   368      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, "boldest soldier boy," that ever slew his fellow creatures by wholesale, not excepting Napoleon le Grand, or Alex. ander ]FIvrogne. But that many-headed calf, the world, like Pope's silly lamb, "licks the hand just raised to shed its blood." Lick away, you senseless fools, and so long as you do, may you be whipped in return by the royal butchers, as they drive you to their shambles. After tea, the doctor gradually led the conversation to the subject he had come to discuss. "I suppose," he said, "we need have no secrets from our friend Edward, here." "Certainly not," replied Henry, "I now look upon him as one who, whatever my future fortunes may be, shall share them with me." Edward gave him a look of affectionate gratitude, but when the doctor commenced to speak on family matters, he took an opportunity, unobserved, to leave the room. After Doctor Kelly had slightly glanced at the position of the Dalystown property, the debts with which it was in- cumbered, &c., &c.,--all of which he was perfectly conver. sant with, he said, " of course, Henry, you have not thought, as yet, on any certain plan or course for the future?" "I have not thought once of myself, doctor. I have lost all energy, when the motive that could and would sustain me no longer exists." "That is natural enough, but this feeling will wear away. A merciful God has set limits to sorrow; nor would respect for the memory of your father, love for your sister, or even ancestral pride, allow you to remain here inactive until greedy creditors drove you hence." "Henry Daly's face flushed. "True, doctor," he replied, "the last of my name that shall ever look upon the dear old place as his home, will not wait to be driven from it, like a whining hound." "Pride!" thought the old man, "ever powerful in the noble breast; no wonder angels fell, when you were ad- mitted into Paradise! Well, then, Henry," he said, ,"that being so, let us, for a moment leave out of sight the prop- erty and its incumbrances; and looking upon yourself as a free agent, what profession would you select? Your father   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      369 wished you to be a barrister. What say you to the wig and gown?' "I never liked the idea, yet to please mypoor father, and with the slight hope of being of service to him, I would have gone to the bar, and toiled like the veriest drudge. But now to walk the hall, as a briefless barrister, to be poisn t- ed at as the ruined heir of the property whose name would be every second day in the court-crier's mouth, as the slow process of accumulating costs was going through, would be insupportable. Perhaps it is foolish of me to say it, but I do not think, even to acquire wealth, I could listen, day after day, to hear the name of Dalystown (round which there clusters so many dear associations) bandied about amongst strangers. My feelings would be somewhat similar to those of one who should witness the desecration of the shrine he was wont to kneel at." " I once knew a man, Henry," replied the doctor, " who was left heir to a property much embarrassed. He was twice your age; but, unlike you, the fellow had a conscience as pliant as India rubber and a hide impervious to goose quills. Some time previous to his entering into the posession of the property, the wolves of the law had sat down to gnaw it. He went round and round it, and soon found out that there was no place for him unless he became a wolf. A wolf he determined to become, so he bound himslf to an attorney. Every one laughed at a man of his age commencing a pro- fession; he joined in the laugh and whetted his fangs. He had not served more than a year and a-halfof his time, when he applied to the benchers to be admitted an honorable member of the wolf family. He pleaded his own case, showed himself to be perfectly conversant with legal practice, and urged as reasons which should induce the judges to accede to his unusual application, the state of his affairs, the neces- sity of having some one qualified to look after them, and his inability, from want of means, to procure professional assistance. He won his cause, and was admitted. Losing no time, with one jump he was in the middle of the pack, ,and from that out, for every bite they took, he took two. When the property was at length sold he bought it in, for the greater portion of the amount it sold for was due to him   30 O      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. in costs, but long before that time he had become known in his profession, and was in extensive practice; belying the adage, " that the man who is his own lawyer, has a fool for a client." "You have not told me this, doctor, to induce me to be. come a barrister' " said Henry. ' 'No, Henry, much less an attorney. You are made of different stuff from the fellow I have been speaking about. Not bul; that the profession of a barrister, in its higher walks, is a very noble one; nevertheless, I am not sorry you will have none of it. So, if you please, we will hang up the wig on its peg again." "4 The truth is," said Henry, "I think there is but one pro. fession open to me." "And what one may that be, Henry?" "The army." "What!" exclaimed the old man. '"Put on the livery of England?"I 's No, doctor.," replied Henry. "There are other countries besides England-for instance, I would not be the first Irishman who had tendered his sword to France." "True," said the doctor. "The field of Fontenoy bore evidence of that. But when they did so, France was, in a measure, an ally of Ireland's, an enemy to her enemy, and they hoped, through France, to avenge the wrongs of their country. Your grandfather, Dillon, was one of those who had such hopes; but with you it would be quite different. Come, we will put this idea of yours first iu the melodra. matic style-flourish of trumpets, &c. You go to France, offer your services to the King-that is if you chance to find one there with his head on--you are accepted, and die on a well fought field, ' with your martial cloak around you.' Now you will not be vexed if I strip this of its romance, and tell you what it really means?'" "No, doctor." i' Well, you would be nothing more than a mercenary, saying to the king: 'Here am I, a fine, brave, cut-throat,- whose throat would your majesty wish me to cut?' By-and- bye the 1king, having got into a row with another king about something, perhaps as valueless as a French poodle,-if it   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       A16I chances to be a point of honor between their majesties, I would consider the cur's tail of more account,-sends you, and some thirty or forty thousand fools like you, to fight an equal number of fools, as the case may be; and a fellow you had never seen, takes a capital method to prevent you frolic ever being able to do so, by driving a ball through your eye, and the curtain drops." Henry could not but smile at the doctor's sketch. "If my graphic description has not given you a distaste for soldiering, Henry," added the old man, "look at your sis- ter." The moment Henry had spokeh of joining the French ser- vice, the young girl's form seemed to collapse with horror; she sat looking at him, scarce hearing the doctor's words, her eyes fixed and her hands clasped tightly together. When her brother turned to her, she burst into tears. "Oh, no-no--Henry," she sobbed, I cannot lose you both." "My dear Emily," replied her brother, as lie kissed her cheek, "it was but an idle, passing thought, I gave utter- ance too,; one too, which the doctor has effectually routed. Let it trouble you no more." "Thank God," said Emily. "Yes, Henry," said the doctor, "under heaven there is nothing so supremely grand as a nation rising in arms to de- fend its rights, or regain its liberty; but all other wars are not alone the remnants of barbarism, but its very,essence." "Well, docthr," said Henry, " what do you propose . In truth, I know not what my future course should be, and I would wish to be guided by you." "What I have to propose, Henry," replied the doctor, "has disadvantages; they are, perhaps, more numerous than I suppose them to be, and though I believe it would ulti- mately lead to success and tranquil happiness, I do not conceal from myself that you would have trials to pass through which. your position heretofore has, to a certain ex- tent, unfitted you for. Therefore, you and Emily must use your own judgments and weigh well what is for and against it. You have spoken of France; what if I should speak of America?"   ^372       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. A thrill of joy shot through Henry's frame. A shadowy longing which he had felt more than once; a wild hope, which he had rejected in the first days of his grief, because it was hope ;-rejected and yet wooed back-now came to him as something practicable. He felt himself blushing like a girl; perhaps it was for letting joy visit his heart so soon, or that, with a lover's sensitiveness, he felt that the doctor had read his thoughts. The latter, to allow him to recover from his confusion, addressed Emily. "Now, Emily," he said, ", you must not look at me so re. proachfully, until you hear what I have to say." "But, doctor," she replied, 1"I never hear of any, but the very poorest of our country people, going to America." "It has indeed given homes to thousands of such, replied the old man, which their own country denied to them, and I feel assured that the present emigration is but a rivulet compared with the vast stream which will yet flow in that direction. Many tokens of the prosperity of those who have already emigrated have been received by their friends at home, and they welcome such with the joy of shipwrecked mariners, when the evidence of land approaches their fragile raft. But it does not follow, my dear Emily, that because the poor and ignorant go, that enlightened, and those with better means, should not also find, in America, a noble field for their energies. Remember, my dear, that it is the new world, whose virgin resources are as varied as its climate, and whllose vast extent we islanders can scarcely compre- hend." "Ah, doctor, boundless forests."' "Were I a young man, Emily," replied the doctor, "I would make my home in one of those forests, not as an an- chorite, but as one who would watch, with lively interest, the growing up of a young nation around him. But all this is irrelevant. Remember, I scarcely wish to be looked upon as an advocate of the course I now propose. Locke says, as well I remember, , that things appear differently is they are viewed from different positions.' This is a very plain truth. Now it is from your position that what I propose must be viewed, because it is you that it directly affects. I   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      573 take it for granted, Henry, that in any of 'our plans for the future, the payment of your father's debts will hold a para- mount place." ,4 You do us but justice; doctor." "Well," continued the doctor, 1" that being the case, all unnecessary costs must be avoided. Every shilling that is wasted in law costs will diminish the means you have for the payment of those debts. The property is ample value now for what it owes; allow a receiver to be placed over it, let it once be sucked into the vortex of chancery, and the funds which should go to pay creditors, will find their way into the pockets of the attorneys. My children, they are better words for your old friend to say to you. Sell Dalystown, or this will happen; but I am sustained by the conviction that in saying so I am faithful to the memory of the dead, and true to the promise I sealed upon his dying lips." The old man paused, deeply moved; and his concluding words had been spoken in a broken voice. Emily's low sobs alone disturbed the silence which followed. At length, Henry said: "We are rich, indeed, in having such a friend; you are right, doctor, Come what will, we have a sacred duty to perform, which, dear as this place may be, is as nothing compared to. No stain shall rest upon my father's honor. What say you, Emily?" "I would prefer, Henry, that we should go out beggars on the world, than that the smallest portion of my father's debts should go unpaid." "And if the only sure way of paying them, Emily," said Dr. Kelly, " lies in the selling of Dalystown as quickly as may be, tell me, my love, after that takes place, what near tie will remain to bind you and Henry to this country ." "None-none-dear doctor," she answered, "save you, and my father's grave." "Emily, my heart thanks you for thinking of the old man; but, my child, my days are drawing to a close, and the heaven from which, I trust, your father's spirit looks down upon his children, canopies all lands. With you, Henry, it might be different, for you are a man, and the ties of coun- try should bind you strongly; but we Irish can scarcely be   374      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. said to have a country, at best, we are but emancipated slaves, of whom it is expected that they will bow down and kiss the hand that most unwillingly loosens our fetters. Brighter days may come, and, as a citizen of the United States, you could remember (when the hour for doing so arrived,) the allegiance you owed to your country, and how little of it was ever due to her English taxmasters. Should you remain in the country, after your property was sold, you would have a feeling of loss of cas'te, ideal perhaps, but not the less painful; this, in itself would dull your energies; your pride would be continually wounded, for with some, pride is. ever more sensitive and jealous in adversity, than in prosperity. In America, it would be quite different. Leaving far behind you crowded cities, you could go into one of the new states or territories, and amidst its forests, which now Emily dreads so much, because she is unac- quainted with them, you could fashion out for yourselfa home, not so dear to you, I well believe, as the one you would leave behind, but, nevertheless, as beautiful. Now, I will briefly lay before you my plan for carrying this out, should you entertain the idea of doing so. In the first place, to sell Dalystown, and your o ther property to advantage, will take tilme; but I think I can show you, Henry, that it will be unnecessary for you to remain, pending this sale. I have made calculations which I will go over with you, at another time, and I find, that your property, sold, even at twenty years' purchase, would leave you a balance, clearof all debts, of three thousand pounds. The two thousand pounds secured on the property to Emily, she will receive on becoming. of age. Now, Henry, these three thousand pounds I will advance to you, taking the entire manage- ment of your affairs into my own hands. My solicitor shall bring the property to a sale, as judiciously and speedily as it can be done ; so you see I will be my own paymaster." "But suppose, doctor," said Henry, " that the property, when sold, should not realize the sum you calculate upon." "I have no fear on that head," replied the doctor. 1' In my calculations, I have allowed as high as one thousand pounds for the costs of sale. But should it not, Henry, what then? You, yourself, was witness to a solemn comu-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,       375 pact between two old men, whose friendship extended over half a century, during all of which time, not one link of the ties that bound them, ever rusted or broke. It would be beneath you, Henry, to let a false pride debar me of the happiness of endeavoring to fulfill the trust that such a friendship confided to me. No, we will not adopt this course until we have looked at it from every point of view, but if you would not wound me, more perhaps, than you can well inmagine, let the objection you have just raised, never more be alluded to. I have another favor to ask; it is of you, Emily. Should Henry decide upon going to ' America, your accompanying him, in the first instance, would be most injudicious. Much as he might wish to have you with him, still- a continual anxiety about you, a nervous watching after your comfort, would lessen the pow- er of free action so necessary to him, on landing in!a strange country. Will you not, then, my dear child, should Henry decide on going, (of course with your approbation,) make the Grove your home, until he shall be enabled to return for you?"               / "'Ah, doctor,'1 she replied, "should Henry leave me, Where else would I find a home." "I thank you, love, for that answer. I put the question simply, and simple and full has your answer been. To- morrow, my dear young friends, I will be here again, ac- companied by Mrs Kelly. We will discuss this matter over at our leisure; there are many minor points I have not touched ul,?on to-night, and I will show you, Henry, the cal- culations I have made. Hilloa! where is Edward? I did not miss hinm." "He has been out of the room for some time," answered Emily. "He is a noble boy-a fine fellow," said the doctor. "I love him as a brother," said Henry. '"It is a very true saying," remarked Doctor Kelly, " that our affections always lean to those we have served; but, irrespective of this, he well deserves your friendship.", "And you remember, doctor, the promise which I made to him. In our plans for the future, lhe must not be over- looked."   o76      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "No need that he should," replied, the doctor. Fortu. nately, he interferes, in no way, with the course I have pro. posed. Bring him with you, Henry. In this country lie might be a burthen to you; in America, you would find him the greatest assistance and comfort. Ah! here he comes. Where have you been, scapegrace?" "In the stable, sir." "Not a very good place, Master Edward; but were I to scold you, you might tell me to look nearer home. That young scamp of mine, Charley, is continually going to the stable's, on one excuse or another. I unfortunately told the young villain, one evening, that when I was a boy I used to bribe the groom to allow me to make up my own pony; so now, when I commence to lecture, my incautious admission is sure to be flung in my face. Go, Edward, if you please, and tell the servant to bring round my gig." When the old man's gig was announced as at the door, he arose to take his departure. "My little Emily," he said, as he kissed her cheek, "will be dreaming all night of wild, dark forests, and old doctors riding grizzly bears through them." "Whatever my dreams may be, doctor," she replied, "I have too much confidence in anything you propose, to dread it in my waking hours. Oh! what should we do if we had not such a friend to guide us!" "I am but a fallible guide, Emily; yet I do believe that peaceful days would come to you and Henry in the free forests of America, until, like the delicate leaves of their own maple, hope would assume a golden hue. And now, good night again. Henry, remain with Emily; I insist upon it. I want to lecture this young scamp; come along, Ed- ward."' "Edward,"' said the doctor, as the former assisted him on with his top coat, "have you heard from that scoundrel un- cle of yours, since his fatal visit here?" "No, doctor." "Has Henry 2" "I am sure he has not," replied the boy, half frightened,  for his uncle's name was one of ill omen to him. "Why do you ask, doctor; have you heard anything of him .?"   THEDALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      3" "No, my boy; indeed, I feel pretty sure that he will make no attempt to get you back." "He need not," replied Edward. 'K I am no longer the dispirited, nervous wretch his cruelty made of me for a time. I have now twiQe his courage, and will never again submit to be his slave." "What would you think of a sea voyage, Edward?" asked the doctor. The boy looked astonished. A little while ago nothing l would have given him greater pleasure, but, now, he was I loth to part so soon again with his protector. i "In company with Henry," added the doctor. Edward's face brightened. "Oh! doctor," he exclaimed, "that would be delightful." "Well, perhaps, Edward, if you had not gone to the stable, you would have heard something about it." a Indeed, doctor, I did not wish to remain in the room when you were speaking on family matters." "Pooh, boy, you are one of the family now. Go in; perhaps Henry will tell you something you would be glad to hear. So, good night, my boy, and in with you." "The shadows of the trees, sir," said the servant, as they drove down the avenue, " frighten the horse." "Shadows," mused the doctor, as he looked back towards the house, " ah, these will pass away with the night; but, to me, a shadow has fallen upon Dalystown which no sun shall ever dispel." R.   378       THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER XXVII. Faithful to his promise, the doctor and Mrs. Kelly visited their friends the next day, at Dalystown. They came early, and most of the day was spent in discussing plans for the future. Before taking their departure, it was settled that Henry should proceed to Dublin, for the purpose of putting his affairs in the hands of Doctor Kelly's solicitor. "He is more honest than the generality of theme'" said the doctor, " and in your case, Henry, he will have sympathy for you; for he himself is of a good family, though " "Though faller, like my own, doctor, you would say." ' I do not know that I was going to say anything of the kind," replied the doctor. "But be it so; the more credit you will deserve if you raise it up again." This conversation took place in front of the house, and for some time Henry did not speak, after Doctor Kelly's last remark.  His glance seemed to be taking in the land. scape around him. n Now, his eyes rested on the house, with its curious style of architecture; (additions had been put to it from time to time, according to the tastes of its proprietors, without much regard to uniformity; but its gray front, zigzag abut- ments, and quaint little towers were more beautiful in Ilen- ry's eyes thLan the most perfect Grecian or Gothic architec- ture ;) then his looks wandered over the noble park., with its green-sward and lma jestic trees. How many of his race had lived and died here since these were but-twigs; yes, old and mighty as they were now, they had been planted by a Daly of Dylystown, but whlat name should witness their de- cay?"So help me, Hleaven!" exclaimed Henry, raising Ihis hat from his throbbing temples, as with kindling eyes, lie looked around upon the familiar scenle, "I will return to claim you." "Right, my boy, said the doctor, divining his thoug10ts, "right, Henry; success is half achieved when it is bravely anticipated."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      379 What was it that had so suddenly revived the young man's energies, renewing hope in his breast. But yesterday ]he had gazed upon this self-same scene with listless eye, re- signed to part with his ancestral home without h thought of struggling to win it back; now his very frame quivered with the power he felt within himsef to achieve much more than this. What had wrought this change? Love! love, which sorrow had seemingly dethroned for a brief space, again re- sumed its empire, and all the noble passions were swayed and strengthened by it. Nor was Doctor Kelly unmindful when he made his proposal to Henry, that the very name of America would be likely to act as a talisman in rousing thle latter firom the lethargic state of mind he had fallen into after his father's death.  Rose O'Donnell was in America; again he should behold her, again she should listen to him, pleading,-not now, as the heir of an ancient house,-but a wanderer like herself;, in a strange land and amongst a people who acknowledged only the aristocracy of nature; and his heart told him he would not plead in vain. It was not, as yet, definitely settled upon, that Henry should go to America,-at least by the others, .because the doctor would not allow it to be so, until Emily had time to think over the step in her own mind. The idea, so new at present, appeared to her almost like a dream. Not so, Henry. The first night Doctor Kelly had proposed it, the former had remained for hours, after he had retired for the night, pacing up and down the room. "Strange," he murmured to himself, " that I never thought. of this before; ah, not strange. Surely I could not have thought of anything since my poor father's death. Oh! father! ever, ever beloved and mourned, forgive this happi- ness I feel stealing to my heart. Emily too, to go to Amer- ica! I never could have dreamed of such a thing, and pa: t from her, I would not; yet, see how easily this good, wise friend of ours arranges it.' It was late in the night when he lay down to sleep, in the hope of dreaming of Rose O'Donnell. That he would have any difficulty in finding out her retreat, in America, never once occurred to him, in the first hours of his newly-awak- 25   380      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ened hopes. Indeed, none of us islanders ever do or can realize an idea of the magnitude of this continent, until we have traveled over large portions of it. Study it as one will, on the map, he has, after all, but the blind man's con. ception of a tube and ball; give him,-we are told,-his sight, and he will not be able to judge by it, which is the tube or which' the ball. So with us, who have been ac- customed to live in the small compass of our island home; on arriving here, we find how little our previous knowledge had prepared our minds for the boundless forests, wide- spreading prairies and ocean lakes, which stretch on every side, awffully grand and sublime, in their immensity. A friend of mine related to me a ludicrous story, bearing somewhat on this. A poor woman, in his neighborhood, in Ireland, hearing that he was about to come to this country, called upon him, and requested, that when he met her hus- band here, he would inform him how badly off she was. "Tell him, your honor," she said, "' that if he was such an unfortunate blackguard as to marry  another, and his own lawful wife alive, I don't want to go next or near him; but he ought to send some relief to his own children." "But what chance have I of meeting with your husband, my good woman?" said the gentleman, " a. man, too, that I have never seen.)" "Oh!" she replied, "you'll be sure to meet with him, somewhere, for he was always a rover, and must be well known in those parts by this time; and for knowing him, I'll give your honor his marks and tokens. He'll be gone, next candlemas. fourteen years; he had sandy hair, wanted a front tooth, and his name is Lacky." Up to the time I last saw my friend,. le had not met with the rover, Lacky; I trust if he ever does, that he will knock his remaining front teeth down his throat. Thank God, an Irishman deserting his wife is a thing almost unknown, and I hlave hlope that Lackly's seeming desertion was caused by his being summoned to a place where a tooth more or less can make no possible difference to him. I hope I will be pardoned for the many little digressions I fall into, as I proceed with my story, I say little, because they are as nothing compared to the thousand-and-one that are ever tempting me, I   - THE DALYS OP DALY STOWN.     381' u Oh, for goodness sake, stop," exclaims one of my fair readers. "Have pity and give me no more of your personal pronouns. Let me hear something of Henry; you- left him just when he was becoming a little interesting." I left him asleep, ma'am, and I ask you, in the name of del- icacy, not to disturb him. Should I bring him before you now it would destroy the romantic feeling with which, I am rejoiced to think, you are beginning to regard him-for his nightcap is slightly pulled down over one eye, and his mouth is wide open. Ah! there goes my poor book into the fire, while the "Mysterious Elopement"' occupies its place. So much for being natural. It was arranged that Emily and Edward Vaughan should go to the Grove on the same day that Henry left for Dublin, and remain there until his return; this was what Emily and Henry supposed, but, in truth, the old doctor did not intend that they should return to Dalystown to live. Under pres. ent circumstances, whatever their future course might be, to remain in Dalystown would be speedy ruin to them, and knowing how bitter their grief would be, if he proposed that they should, at once, take their final departure from it, he adopted this method to wean them from their home and its old associations. Thus, on the day of their departure, they were spared the heart agony they would have felt did they know they were bidding Dalystown a long farewell. On arriving in Dublin Henry was pleased to find Mr. Carroll (Doctor Kelly's solicitor) a gentleman, not by law, but by birth, education and leeling. He soon became interested in Henry, and gave the utmost attention to a statement of his affairs, which the latter laid before him. "And now, Mr. Carroll,. said Hbnry, as he sat in the attor- ney's office, on the fourth day after his arrival in Dublin, "What 'do you advise?" t"I believe our friendl the doctor, takes the wisest view," replied Mr. Carroll. "He has a great horror, Mr. Daly, of my profession." He certainly has not a very high opinion of some of its members." "Perhaps he is right, and yet, if there were not roguish clients, we would not have so many roguish attorneys." v]   382      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "It would be a poor defence, Mr. Carroll, for a man to make; that he broke into a house because another told him to do so." "Very true; but I do not say it in defence of those who disgrace the profession, butt merely to show you that half the crowd, who shout 'stop thief,' are thieves themselves. Now, if you wish, you can prevent your property from be. ing sold for years.'* Lord Eldon said,' that if a man sat upon his title deeds, he could defy the world; but your ob- ject is, to pay the debts that incumber your property, and not to avoid doing so." "Surely," replied Henry, in a surprised tone. "you must take for granted that such is my wish and intention." "Yes," replied the attorney, " now that I know you, and all about you; otherwise I could not take anything of the kind for granted; for I assure you, Mr. Daly, we rogues of attorneys often receive very different instructions from our honest, honorable clients." "If you except me from the generality of clients, I hope you will do yourself equal justice, in reference to attorneys." "Thank you; the best guarantee you can have of my dealing fairly by you, is that I enjoy Dr. Kelly's confidence. How does he look?" "My poor father's death seems to have preyed upon him much." "Ah, yes, I can understand that. They were very old friends. Well, Mr. Daly, my advice to you is, sell your property, before you allow it to approach the C1ourt of Chancery." "As your views and Dr. Kelly's fully coincide in this," said Henry, " and are shared in by myself, I look upon the matter as decided, and will write to the doctor to that effect. He seems to think I should push my fortunes in the new world. What think you of it?" "The doctor mentioned something about it, in his letter to me. But you can't have my opinion on that subject in my office." "Why so?" "I might be tempted to charge you six-and-eightpence the law, in this respect, has been altogether changed.   "'JtiH AJYIS bUJV' DALYY'0'TUWN 0W0 for it, and we are told to avoid temptation. Come and dine with me, and we will discuss the matter over our wine." ' Thank you," replied Henry, "' I will do myself the pleas- ure." As he was leaving Mr. Carroll's office, the latter said: "Don't be later than six, Mr. Daly. Every man has his oddity; mine is, to see my friends at six, sharp." "It is a very amiable one'" replied Henry. "That is the very hour some people would just as soon not see their friends." Emily's visit to her friends at the Grove did much to re- store her-not, indeed, to the cheerfulness which was nat- ural to her, but to tranquility of mind. When first she went amongst them, her grief, though poignant, was unobtrusive. she was calm and uncomplaining; too much so, the doctor feared, for he held, with Shakspeare, that "The grief that does not speak, Whispers the o'erfraught heart, and bids it break." All that love and kindness could achieve, was done by Mrs. Kelly anld the doctor, to comfort her. Skillfully did they perform their part, for the good have ever an innate talent for such ministering. The boys, too, did their best to amuse her; even little Fanny had a misty idea that something had happened to Emily, for, after taking out innumerable toys, and taking from Noah's ark all the animals of creation, (I hope Noah turned them out in a more perfect condition as to limbs,) and finding such magnificent wonders failed to interest the young girl, the child would (as if suddenly awed by a fear she could not comprehend) desert her toys, and, stealing noiselessly to Emily's side, place her little fingers on the black dress, and then raise her big blue eyes, with a wondering expression in thefn, to the other's face. At such times, Emily would snatch the child up in her arms, and press her to her bosom, whilst tears fell upon the baby- face upturned to her own, and Fanny would pout, and en- deavor to soothe the sorrow she could not understand. "Don't cry, Emily," she would say, " oh, don't, don't; if you cry, little Fanny will cry too." When Emily had been at the Grove some days, Doctor Kelly persuaded her to go out for a walk, with his two eld-  .$   34      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. est grandsons and Edward Vaughan. After a little, she began to like those rambles; the first days, they were con- fined to the neighborhood of the house, but soon became longer. Sometimes Fred and Fanny were of the party, and never was fair ladye escorted by more devoted knights, valorous withal, for woe betide the dog that barked at them as they passed. Edward Vaughan generally walked by Emily/s side, and though there was but little difference in their ages, yet is there a great 'disparity between a boy of sixteen and a girl of eighteen, so Emily treated him with the same freedom she did Charley and James, whilst feel- ing for him the affection of an elder sister. Rather dan. gerous this, for the susceptible boy. When first he emerged from his uncle's dark den, into the light of her presence, he could scarcely believe her to be of the same species as his bearded aunt; for a strong down, (if you will,) ornamented that good lady's upper lip, giving her, at times, when her cap sat awry on her head, rather a reckless, military look. Her coarse voice was almost still ringing in his ears, when Emily Daly's silvery tones went warbling to his heart. In the bewilderment of his new joy, he almost looked upon her as something more than mortal. Now, as he walked by her side, stealing glances at her dovelike- eyes, his feelings were different.; she was, indeed, still an angel, but one whose heaven he would like to share. "But this was a secret that should go with him to the grave," and he heroically buttoned his jacket over it. How he blushed and'stammered, immediately after, when Emily asked him if he felt cold. "Oh, no, not at all, anything but cold," andlforthwith the jacket flew open, but the secret remained within. Neither Charley or James felt any jealousy at Edward's keeping so continually by Emily's side, during their walks. The former contented themselves by acting as skirmishers to the party, falling back, continually, on the main body, with flowery spoils, or to point out some wonderful leap taken by Charley on James's pony, Charley making very light of the matter, whilst James was boisterous in his eulogiums of his pony and his brother's horsemanship. On one of those occasions, Emily happened to remark how   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,      385 fond she was of riding on horseback, whereupon little Fred, who was one of the party, volunteered, in great excitement, to catch a donkey, grazing in a field adjoining, for the special behoof and benefit of Emily. The little fellow spoke so energetically and so thoroughly in earnest (for 'he felt himself somewhat put initthe shade by his brothers, and their wonderful feats,) that Emily laughed outright. It was the first time the boys had heard her laugh since her arrival at the Grove, and in very sympathy they shouted with mirth. "Oh, Fred,"' said Charley, " to think that Emily would ride a donkey." "I heard grandpapa saying," replied the discomfited Fred, "that the first time he saw grandmama she was rid- ing on a donkey. Now, Master Charley!" "But that was years ago," answered his brother, : and grandmama was but a little child then." Poor Fred thought that the precedent he had adduced would have brought him off, but it only made Emily and the boys laugh the more; whereupon, he indignantly turned and made tracks for home. Emily called to him to return, and even made a vague promise to mount the donkey, but the very mention of the now hated animal, made him, if possible, increase his speed. A month elapsed and letters from Henry announced his speedy return home. Emily showed hers to their trusty friend. "Its purport is much the same as the one I have received," said the doctor. You see, Emily, his mind is made up to go to America, if you consent; it now rests with you whether he will do so or not. What do you say, my child?." "Advise me, dear doctor, I am as incapable of deciding the question as litile Fanny." "First let me ask you, Emily, if you dread the idea; is it repugnant to you and would your consenting to the step be solely for Henry's welfare, at the expense of your own feelings and happiness? Is this your idea of it? If so, we could scarcely ask you to make such a sacrifice, even con- vinced, as I am, that your opinion would be altered by ex- perience."5   386      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. It was sometime before the young girl replied. She seemed to be examining her own feelings to enable her to give the doctor a truthful answer. At length she said: ' IfI thought it impossible for Henry to keep Dalys- townl." "It is, my child," said the doctor, interrupting her; " the attempt to do so would be ruin to him." "Then," she answered, "of the two, to remain in this country after Dalystown is sold, or to leave it, I prefer the latter, and America is the country I would select to go to. My reason for this has nothing of self in it, for all places will be alike to me when we part with beloved Dalystown." "I understand you, Emily. They deserve, indeed, to be rewarded, for both have acted nobly." "And now, doctor," continued the young girl, "you have my truthful answer; one, too, not lightly given, though I confess, when you first proposed the step, I was frightened at the very idea." "I saw you were," replied the doctor, "but I expected that you would, because it was so new and strange to your mind. I have advocated this course, Emily, although I but intended to suggest it; but I have been led, almost uncon. sciously, to do so, feeling convinced it is the one most likely to lead to success and happiness. I never doubted but that the proposal would be acceptable to Henry. I now rejoice that it is so to you; haply you have ever been joined too closely in the bands of love to allow of my separating your interests in my own mind. Now, my love, I wish to speak to you of Henry's return from Dublin. He says we may expect him in a week. Do you not think, Emily, that it would be unwise for either of you to return to Dalystown?" "Surely, doctor," she replied, "' we must do so. We have much to prepare, much to do, before we bid it a sad fare- well." "All which can be done, Emily, without your going to reside there." Emily remained silent, she knew not what to answer. She felt that she could scarcely forego the melancholy pleasure of roaming over, for a brief time, scenes so hallow- ed by early associations; in resting her steps, for a little, in   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      387 her old world ere she turned them towards the new and un- known one before her. Dr. Kelly remarked her hesitation, and, for the present, forbore to press her for an answer. "Well," he said, " we will compromise the matter. Let Henry come here, in the first instance, and we can consult together on the subject." This, Emily agreed to, and in a week afterwards the Dublin coach dropped Henry at the Grove gate. All the family, with Emily and Edward, were there to meet him, every voice and face, said welcome home; yet Henry's voice failed him, when he would have thanked his friends, for he remembered his last return from Dublin. He missed one form that then came forth to meet him, and lips that then welcomed him, were now mute in death. The same thought was busy in Emily's mind, and when her brother folded her in his arms, she laid her head upon his breast, and wept. There was no ill-timed interference with their grief, no misplaced attempt to soothe it; the doctor, and his party, leading the way to the house and allowing Henry and his sister to follow slowly after. The next day, Dr. Kelly, held a long conversation with them, in his study, one of the results of which was, that the young people abandoned the idea of returning to Dalystown, to reside; it was also settled that Henry should forthwith prepare for his departure to America, from which he was to return for his sister, at the expiration of a year. The breaking up of the establishment at Dalystown, was, of course, a necessary consequence to all this, and, in a short time, the old place became lonely and deserted; none of the many to whom it had given a home, remaining in it but the steward, who was left in charge. Dr. Kelly took all the stock,fincluding the horses, at a valuation, except Emily's mare, and Fox, Henry having insisted on Anthony O'Kelly's accepting the latter, as a parting present. The furniture, Henry retained. "Let it remain where it is, doctor," he said, "until a stran- ger comes to claim the old place. If I ever return to have a home in Ireland, I would have this furniture in it." It was sad work, this breaking up of the old establishment;   388      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. this tumbling down of household gods and loosening of do. mestic ties. It was a sad time when the servants came to the Grove, to take a weeping farewell of their young mis. tress. None went away without receiving substantial to. kens of remembrance both from Emily and Henry. But the old retainers of the family-those who had grown gray in its service-were not allowed, now that their services were no longer required, to go adrift upon the world. The stock, &c., had been valued at one thousand pounds, and a portion of this money Henry proposed to leave in Doctor Kelly's hands, to be given to them in small yearly pensions. It was a task mightily pleasing to the old man; but not con. tent to be merely the almoner of others, he gave to those of them that age incapacitated from further service, cottages on his own property. But there was one amongst these re. tainers that it was difficult to devise any plan by which he could be provided for; one too, for whom Henry and his sister felt the most,-this was Tom Gallaher. He was strong and young enough to work, 'tis true, but Tom would not take service under a king; his allegiance was given to the Dalystown family, and could never be transferred to others. Few would require less than Tom, for his wants were small, indeed, but how to reconcile him to leaving Dalystown, was the difficulty. His master's death had affected him to such an extent as to weaken, if not to destroy, the little in- tellect he ever had. Since that event, he had spent his time in rambling about the place, without seeming to no- tice anything, or anybody, not excepting Henry. Whilst the latter and Emily remained at Dalvstown, Tom went, as usual to the postoffice, but his doing so was a mere mechan- ical action, which he was scarcely conscious of performing; he no longer, after his return from the village, made mirth in the servant's hall, by a recital of his adventures. rWhen he returned with the mail-bag, he spent the remainder of the day strolling about the fields, or through the stables. Sometimes as he walked listlessly along, he would start, and return to the house with long strides, as if he had suddenly remembered something he went to seek, but long before he reached it, the idea, whatever it was, would be forgotten, and he retraced his steps, or remained in the yard, looking    about him, with a vacant, listless eye. When Emily first went to the Grove, Tom was there every day, but he never remained long; he was always fidgety and uneasy until he saw her, after which he would return to Dalystown, in great haste, no persuasion being able to induce him to relhain away from it a day. To the entreaties of the boys to stay at the Grove, he would answer, "Faith, children, you're foolish, and doesn't know what you're axing. Sure, I can't be away from the place qpy time; by dad its too long away I am already. Go in, Mr. Charley, and God bless you, and tell Miss Emily I want to see her on a little business." When Emily made her appearance, the poor fellow's face would brighten up, his business with her being always the same: 'I When will you come home, Miss Emily, and where is Mr. Henry'" "Did I not tell you yesterday, Tom, that he was. in Dub- lin?"  "In Dublin! aye, but I disremembered it. You're sure, Miss Emily, he's there?" "Yes, Tom. Why do you ask?" "Oh, nothing now; I know you're telling me the truth. And when will he be back, Miss Emily?" "Soon, I hope, Tom." "Well, miss, that's what I wanted you for, and I'll be go- ing home now." "Dr. Kelly is vexed, Tom, that you will not remain here." "Faith, that's quare enough, miss. How could I, and the poor place so lonely in itself? Faith, its too many of us that's out of it already." And away Tom would start, at a round trot, for Dalystown. But when he witnessed the breaking up of the establish- ment there, his grief became pitiable, and he seemed to dread the idea of leaving the place even for an hour. Hen- ry, at first not noticing this, had employed him on some er- rands; but he soon perceived with what reluctance fie went on such when they led him any distance from the house, as if he feared the place itself would disappear if he lost sight of it. It would have been hard to guess what his feel- ings towards Henry were at this time. -It appeared as if his   390      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. attachment to his young master struggled with the horror he felt at his desertion of Dalystown. All that he saw going on was a horrible nightmare on his clouded mind, One idea, however, had become fixed there: the death of his lbid master had brought about all these misfortunes, itself the greatest of them all. And the steward told Doc. tor Kelly (but the circumstance was carefully concealed from Emily and Henry,) that of late Tom was in the habit of ;ising at early morning, and taking his seat upon a large stone in the yard, which was used as a mounting block, where he would commence the Irish cry, continuing it un- til he perceived that those within the house had arisen. It was the only way the simple, faithful fellow had to unbur. then his heart of a portion of the grief that pressed upon it. And long after, when the name of Godfrey Daly was seldom heard in the place where the most part of his life had been spent, when his memory was fast fading from the minds of men, the cry of sorrow rose from the lone, deserted place, ere yet the sun of a new day had arisen, to look down upon the fresh graves that yesterday had made. Methinks, to the released spirit-if it can look back to the world it has left-the grief of one human heart, un- changed through the long years that have changed all things around-fresh when'the chiseled lines on the tomb- stone have become filled with moss, must be more grateful than the proudest marble monument that man has ever erected. Perchance, too, the tears we dry while here, re- turn to some human channels to fall upon our graves and cleanse them from the stains of earth. Henry mentioned to Dr. Kelly how uneasy he felt about Tonm. "Grief," he said, " has deprived him of any little intel- lect he ever had, and makes him quite unmanageable. I really do not know what can be done with him." The best thing to do," replied the doctor, "is to leave him, for the present, with the steward; indeed, it is the only course; for were you to bring him to the most distant part of the kingdom, he would find his way back to Dalys town. It would be cruel, at present, to disturb him. Should a stranger come to reside at Dalystown, I think Torn would   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      391 leave of his own accord, and I will then try to coax him to come live here; one thing I promise you, not alone in my own name, but liklewise, in the name of my grandchildren, Tom shall never want for a home." This, of course, quited Henry's uneasiness. It is said, somewhere, " that all leave-taking should be brief; if this be so, I do not see but that the records of them should be brief, likewise. In the papers before me, there is, indeed, much about the time which Henry spent at the Grove, ere he took his de- parture for America; they were written by one who loved to dwell upon the smallest incident that then occurred, for in those days, love and friendship had grown jealous of time, and watched lest it should rob them of a moment; bnt they were never intended to be made public, and though it has been a pleasure to me. to open these little caskets of trifles, to look for the gems concealed within them, I could scarcely expect that the general reader would find an equal interest in following me. It was July, before Henry had completed his preparations for his departure, and yet, they were not many; but we are apt to linger, as we loosen the ties which bind us to home\t ! kindred, and country. He had to spend a week at Crea- ren, with the O'Kellys; there were many others, too, whom he had to call upon, for at such a time mere acquaintances come closer to the heart than they were wont to do, and we grasp the proffered hands of those whom we were accustom- ed to pass with a distant salute. It is probable, that, as the time drew near for her brother's departure, Emily's spirits ,would have sank under this second trial, had not Dr. Kelly been near, to console and encourage her. Reverencing the old man, as she did, his words had for her all the weight of prophecy, and when he added to some hopeful augury, "believe me, Emily, this will come to pass," she believed, as if it had come from inspired lips. e It is astonishing how much we lighten our own pack by putting a hand, now and then, to our neighbor's; it is pitia- ble how little we seem to comprehend or care for this great truth; we jog on, in life's journey, regardless of the fate of our fellow traveler, who drops, wearied and exhausted, by i.   892      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, our side, when, perhaps, a touch, light as that which brings a sinking body to the surface of the water, would have sus. tained him. In comforting and supporting others, the old, man's strength of mind and body returned to him ; the ruddy glow, that became him so well, came back to his face, and, as he bustled about, superintending everything, leaving nothing undone, that could tend to the comfort of the traveler, he regained his former elasticity of step. As for the packing of trunks, he had insisted on Emily's taking that department on herself, and he was very strictin seeing she did not idle; he' himself superintending her la bors ; sometimes commanding, at other times scolding; one day, he even went so far as to fling a traveling cap at her; and the. old man's eyes grew moist from pleasure, as he saw her obliged to sit down on the trunk she had been packing, and give way to a merry peal of laughter. Edward Vaughan sometimes assisted Emily in her labors, shutting down the lids of trunks, with mighty efforts, when nothing more, by any possibility, could be got into them, and taking an opportunity, as he corded them, to show Emily various sailor's knots. He was in the greatest de. light at the idea of the voyage, iti company with Henry, and for one who had never seen, or read much about America, his descriptions of it, and the scenes and adventures through which they were to pass, were vivid and glowing; but, I fear, not a whit more truthful (though more pleasing,) than those given by English travelers on their return home froml this country. If 1'ever come to have regal sway over a continent, or, even, like Sancho Panza, am made a governor of an islal:d, I will make it a fundamental law, that no roving, growling Englishman shall ente miy territories, unless he declares before hand that he will not publish a book of travels, or in other words, that he will not burlesque the country and people whose hospitality lie claims. I remember once paying a visit to a penny show, in the old country,-I do not mean to say that pennies were so scarce there that they were exhibited. Before the performance. commenced, the showman requested of his audience, that if   TEiE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,     393 they saw anything which pleased them they would cheer, in order to attract the attention of outsiders, who still les- itated to invest capital in the speculation ; but we saw noth- ing to please us, so we did not cheer. "' My good people," said the showman, " whether you are pleased or not, be pleased to shout." That was enough, we were an Irish au- dience, and up to this it had been rather tantalizing to have no opportunity to shout; nowhere was a legitimate one. l By doing so we would benefit the man who had falsely de- i luded us into his show, asserting that the Queen and Prince Albert had expressed themselves highly pleased with it; it would be, figuratively, piling hot pennies on his head; so we cheered until the canvass sides of the show bulged out. At the first cheer, the showman placed his eye to a hole in the canvass, to mark its effect. Turning his head every now and then thus, he exclaimed, " shout again--shout again--.shout away my hearties ," when he found the audience becoming exhausted, and the steam outside at bursting heat, he said: "Tank ye's, the performance is over." As we went down the rickety steps from the platform, we encountered our victims rushing up, and in a short time their shouts, like ours, were heard far and near. Now the traveling Englishman does the reverse of this. From the tinme lie sets foot upon these shores, until he leaves them, he does nothing but growl at everything which has not the Sheffield or Manchester brand upon it. Whether lie is pleased or not, he is pleased to growl; and the consequence is, that by the time he reaches home, he has accumulated a quantity of bile it would take old Parr's prolonged exist- ence to remove, which he bespatters over folios of fair paper, in lies, green, yellow and black. There was one visit which Henry had to make, in compa- ny with his sister, and which had been left for the last. It was to their father's grave. Mrs. Kelly had come to kilow of it, and mentioned the subject to her husband. "You should try and persuade them not to go, James," she said; ,i I fear it will affect them too much." "No, no, Mary," he replied, "it is much better that they should go; it would cause them many a pang in after years if they neglected to do so. I am glad, Mary, they have   394      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. not neglected it ; I should have been disappointed were it otherwise. When do they go?" "I believe, to-morrow'." ' Then make no remark about it; let there be as little notice as possible taken of their going or returning. I do not think they can accuse themselves of one act of disobe. dience to him while living; the grief of such children, stand. ing by a father's grave, is deep indeed, but never bitter. Of the two, Mary, this visit will be soothing in its effects." And so they went and returned. Mrs. Kelly, with a woman's sympathy, remarked Emily's pale cheek as she en. tered the house, and followed the young girl to her room. Emily answered the old lady's enquiring look. "Dear Mrs. Kelly," she said, "I have not suffered as much as I thought I would, for even as we knelt by his grave, our thoughts and eyes were turned towards heaven." . And-now the day has actually arrived that is to witness the departure of Henry Daly and Edward Vaughan. It broke upon the world, bright and joyous, fresh and young, as when God said, ' let there be light;" beautiful as when Adam awoke in Eden, and saw Eve! The crimes, the scr. rows, the graves of earth, had never yet dimmed it with a cloud. None of the family at the Grove have slept the night be- fore, and they now sit down to an early breakfast, but no one eats. There is little spoken:; the doctor tells Henry he should try and eat something, and, to set him the exampler he puts a large cut of toast upon his own plate; but he for- gets to eat it, and after cutting it into small pieces, com- mences to feed his dog with them. Mrs. Kelly's hand shakes so that she has been near scalding little Fanny, who finding herself, for the first time in her life, neglected by every one, and tired of walking round and round the table in the vain hope of attracting the notice of somebody, sits down in a corner of the room and complains of the mat- ter to her doll. The doll, remaining stoically indifferent to the entire matter, is soundly whipped and left in the cor. ner, while Fanny endeavors to drag "Beauty" out of the room, from the advantages she is reaping by her mastery absence of mind.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       395 Presently all rise from the table-it is mockery to remain at it any longer--and the doctor,ttaking Henry's arm, they both leave the room. Emily watches them from the win- dow, as they walk up and down before the house, the doctor speaking with great energy and Henry attentively listening; in a short time they enter the room again; the doctor leads Henry up to where Emily stands, and letting go his arm, brother and sister are left for a few minutes alone together. Yes, they have but afew minutes, and yet it is surprising how little either speak! Henry's arm is round Emily's waist, his hand nervously patting the little head that rests upon his breast. "Poor, poor Emily--dear-dear sister; courage my own love," is all he can whisper. "You are going from me, Henry. Oh! I had so much to say; you will tell Rose how I long to call her sister." Such like words, brother and sister exchange. Mrs. Kelly and the doctor enter the room. "Courage, my children," says the latter, advancing with his wife. "Give her to us, Henry; she is ours, until you return for her," and he draws the young girl gently to himself. "Mrs. Kelly tells me, love, that you wish to go dcown to the gate, to see Henry off." "Oh yes, doctor," she replies, " will you not permit me?" '"To be sure I will. Go and get your bonnet, we will all go down together. Here wife, bring her along with you. Are you not proud of her, Henry? Oh, sir, you did not know she had so brave a little, heart." It is now time that the coach, which is to convey the travelers to Dublin, should be passing, and every one in the house (which is left to mind itself,) escorts them down the avenue; the domestics bringing up the rear at a respectful distance. How ofter will this scene be remembered by tIenry, in his after lonely departure from strange places, where it will appear to him that hie is the only stranger in the crowds which hurry by, laughing, chatting, welcoming and bidding good-bye. Before they reach the avenue gate, the coach is seen advancing along the road, and Charley and James are sent forward to stop it. Fred follows, but 26   396      THE DALYS OF DALYSTO W .N meeting with a butterfly taking a different direction, Fred disappears in a neighboring shrubbery. The horses are pulled up, and while the luggage is being piled on the roof of the coach, three outside passengers, through their vizors of dust, gaze upon the little scene passing-inside the g:ate:. Since the coach stopped, Emily has remained locked in her brother's arms. In the meantime, Edward, laughing and crying, is kissing everyone he can lay hands upon; the luggage is all up, the doctor places his hand upon Henry's shoulder. "Come, my poor fellow," he says. Mrs. Kelly advances on the other side and receives Emily in her arms; then the old man throws his arms around the manly form of Henry. "God almighty bless you, my boy," he exclaims, and bursts into tears. While Henry is bidding Mrs. Kelly and the others fare. well, Edward approaches Emily; she presses her lips to his and he hurries off and scrambles up on the coach, lest they might be profaned by another's touch. Again Henry folds Emily in his arms, to the great chagrin of a thorny-looking female who is peering out of the coach window, one of those scraggy bushes of humanity that never bear blossoms. "Very indelicate," she exclaims, jerking her head into the coach. The only other inside passenger is an elderly gentleman, who has been traveling all night, and is now enjoying a short nap. "It is very indelicate, sir, I think," says the thorny-faced female, raising her voice, and addressing her fellow-passen- ger, 'this kissing the opposite sex in the open air. (She would have had no objection to a little of it inside the coach.) Oh! goodness gracious, did I ever!" Her sharp voice awakes the old gentleman; he gives an angry growl, and, stretching out one leg, catches the lady on the shin with the toe of his boot. "Brute," she exclaims, darting a spiteful look, and retreating to the opposite cor- ner. This, not very complimentary, epithet is met by the old gentleman with a determined snore, which says, as plain as snore can, "don't vex yourself, old girl, I'm asleep." Henry's foot is on the step of the coach, when Emily s sobs reach him; lie hurries back and again folds her in his   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      397 arms. There is a hammer-faced man sitting behind the coachman, who has been making a note, in a memorandum book, of the delay the latter is permitting, in order to lodge a complaint against him. He tells the passenger who sits next to him-a diminutive man, and who receives several severe bumps in the eye from his neighbor's elbow, as the latter writes-- 'that he is thus cautious in noting down all the particulars, in order to be able to swear to them, if nec- essary." The fellow is going up to Dublin to swear out a chancery affidavit of seventy-.two sheets of fools6ap, and will do so without reading one word of it. Henry's foot is again on the step of the coach, when Anthony O'Kelly and his brothers drive up in a dog cart ; they jump out and catch his'hands. He feels almost ashamed that his young friends should see him so unmanned, and hurries up to the top of the coach. Joe Lowry has been preparing a seat for hini beside himself; he touches his hat respectfully to Henry, but does not speak; he knows why this trip is so different from the pleasant ones they used to have, formerly, together; he knows all about it, for he and the guard have been dis- cussing the matter, with the helper, at the last stage. Even when lie sees Henry seated, and has tucked his own oilskin wrapper round his legs, he does not say, in his usual confi- dent tone, "all right, sir," but, " will I go on, Mr. Daly, are you ready, sir l. "Yes, yes, Joe," Henry hurriedly answers. The horses are put in motion, not with Joe's usual " yo up's, my darlents," but with a severe cut of the whip, they plunge forward, the wheels turn round, Edward nearly tum- bles off the coach as he stands up to wave his cap, the ham- mer-faced passenger's elbow assaults, with renewed vio- lence, the diminutive man's eye, the little group left behind wave handkerchiefs, and strain their eyes after the coach until it reaches a turn in the road; gradually it disappears: round it, and Henry and his fortunes are hidden from their new. We will leave them, reader, to wend their way slowly back to the house; we will leave them for many a long sumneres  day, to await, with anxious hearts, for tidings friom beyond the sea. We will not intrude upon them as they   398      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. sit, in the long, twilight evenings, conversing on the sub. ject ever, present to their minds, Emily's spirits now raised as she listens te the doctor's hopeful words, now saddened as the shadows of evening grow more sombre, and they steal in long, dark lines, to her feet. We may not linger with them, but take the route their thoughts travel over, and fol. low the fortunes of Henry and his young companion. CHAPTER XXVIII. Henry Daly had determined that his stay in Dublin  should be as short as possible, so he lost no time in calling on Mr. Carroll. Assisted by the latter, he exchanged the greater portion of his money for letters of credit on houses in New York, and within three days after his arrival in the Irish metropolis, he and Edward sailed for Liverpool. It was raining when they landed there; it always is rain. ing in Liverpool. I do not say this lightly, nor is the rain which falls there, suggestive of light ideas. I have fre- quently been in Liverpool, and during my stay, it has never ceased to rain. Remarking this as somewhat singular,I have questioned hundreds whom I knew to have been there. Question.-"What kind of weather had you in Liverpool'" Answer.--"Oh, dreadful, raining all the time." It was rain- ing, as I have said, when our travelers landqd, and I have no reason to suppose (but quite the reverse, ) that the weather hlas cleared up since then. Fortunately for Henry, he did not belong to that class of emigrants whose plundered means-little as they amount to, individually,-support a certain, class of the inhabitants of Liverpool, and it is humiliating to know that there, as in   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWNo    -  399 New York and elsewhere, one's own countrymen act as the decoy duck for those sharks*. Germans are invariably em- ployed to decoy Germans; Irishmen, the Irish. The latter, too apt to trust, as a friend, the artful villain who addresses them in their own beloved language, fall an easier prey than the more sober German.  "Hand me that newspaper, Edward,"' said Henry, as they two sat at breakfast the morning after their arrival in Liv- erpool. "We must see what vessels are about to, leave for New York, the time of their departure, &c." His voice was cheerful, for when we are separated from the visible ties of home and country, our thoughts turn more to the future than to the past; that is on our first set- ting forth. In after years, when the tinsel with which hope and experience gilds the future has faded away, we turn again to those early ties, and, through a mist of tears, be- hold themn ever young, beautiful and holy. For Henry, the future held out hopes sufficient to sustain him amidst trials and hardships, far severer than any he might reasonably anticipate, and he was too young to fore- see how many obstacles fate might place in the way of their fulfilment. "There are three vessels to sail next week," he said, after glancing over the paper. Now in one of these we will go, my boy, so which to choose is the question; you should de- cide this, Edward." "How are they classed?' asked the latter. "They appear," replied Henry, " about equal tonnage, and each? is set down, at Lloyd's as A, 1." And here I put a few questions to the world, individually and collectively. Who is Lloyd' Is there such a person in the flesh, or is he a myth? If the former, is he a young man who never grows old, or an old man who' never was young?." Has his alphabetical and arithmetical knowledge never gone beyond the letter A, and the figure 1,--has any one ever seen B, 2, at Lloyd's?' There, I feel easier now. "We will go down to the docks, Edward," continued Henry," and look at these vessels. After all, I suppose one is about the same as another, or if there is a difference, that *I have seen this noticed by a German writer.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. we have little chance of finding it out. What I am most anx- ious about, is the kind of captain we are to have. Let's see now,' Captain Edward Jackson;' 'Captain James Sweet;' 'Captain John Thompson.' That last name pleases me most, there is something solid and unpretending in it. We will see this Captain John, Thompson, in the first instance, Edward." "Sometimes the captain does not go on board until the vessel is just going to sail," said Edward. " I know it, but, nevertheless, we will try and find him out. One thing I am resolved upon; not to take passage in any vessel until I have seen the captain we are to sail with; so come along and we will call at the office men- tioned in this advertisement. We will take it on our way to the docks." On reaching the office, they found it crowded with emi. grants and their baggage. Some of the former were loung. ing round the door, others of them sitting dejectedly on their boxes. Here was a poor woman nursing a babe and looking at her husband as he forced a pair of new shoes on a little boy, while the older ones, already shod, stamped about the office. Some half dozen emigrants, who had not as yet engaged their passage, were listening, to a clerk who endeavored to impress upon them how grateful they should be to Providence for leading them to that particular office, and that they should at once take advantage of their good fortune, by securing berths in the James Monroe. " Anxious as they always were," he said, " to study the comfort and happiness of emigrants, they seldom had an opportunity of doing so on so splendid a scale as this vessel now afforded." There never was such a philanthropist as the clerk of an emigrant office. "The milk of human kindness " seems to be bottledup in his breast and continually popping out the cork, besprinkling all who approach. This is, indeed, be- fore the list is filled up, or the vessel has sailed; after that " there comes a nipping frost," and the milk becomes con- gealed. Henry approached this gentleman and enquired for Cap- tain Thompson, and if he would he be likely to see him on board."   " Captain Thompson was not on board; he lived a short distance ou-t of town, but he usually called at, the office sometime during the day; any message left for him he should receive." Henry replied " that he could not well leave a message, as he did not know the captain. The fact was, he and his young friend were about to take passage for America, and he wished to see Captain Thompson'relative to the matter." " Oh, the gentleman wishes to secure two berths in the James Monroe. Splendid vessel, sir! All that 'was man- aged by the office, the captain had nothing whatever to say about it. Would the gentleman be good enough to look over the plan of the vessel ? Cabin passage, of course,- two staterooms, as yet not engaged; fortunately too, the very best; singular, but such chances will occur." When Henry got an opportunity to speak,,which was not for some time, he replied that "he had not expressed a wish to secure two berths in the James Monroe, for he had not, as yet, selected the vessel he should go in. He saw that there were three advertised to sail on the following week. He certainly should not take passage in any vessel without having first seen and conversed with the captain." The clerk looked puzzled; he felt that his usual mode of persuasion would fail with Henry, and yet it would never do to let him leave and go, perhaps, to another office. A bright idea struck him, suggested by a little wooden cuckoo coming out of a small clock, and announcing the hour, after which he retired into his house, banging the door to, like a rich man's porter. " Ha! It was just Captain Thompson's hour to call; would the gentleman wish to wait for him,-he could do so, in the private office. He would find Mr. Bearcrofti one of the owners, there." Consenting to wait, Henry, accompanied by Edward, was ushered by the clerk into an inner office. "A gentleman wishing to procure passage for two, to America, Mr. Bearcroft," said the clerk, to a rather elderly, gentleman-like looking man, who sat before a desk. " The gentleman wishes to see Captain Thompson, and I have re- quested him to wait."  THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.       i Mr. Bearcroft bowed, pointing at the same time to two chairs. " I expect Captain Thompson, sir," he said, addressing Henry, " every moment; in the meantime, while you wait, you will find the morning papers on the table," and he re. sumed his pen and ledger. " Certainly the employer and his clerk are two very dif. ferent persons," thought Henry. "I suppose this is one of the prince merchants of England, too proud to attend to the trifling details of business." But a moment's consideration showed him what a very false conclusion he might be drawing from the gentleman's reserved manner. His inquiry had been for Captain Thomp- son, and Mr. Bearcroft evinced good taste in not taking no- tice of the hint which his clerk had given to him. Certainly, I must say, that this good taste pervades, to a great extent, in England, allowing a man to transact his own business as he thinks proper. Henry looked at Mr. Bearcroft, but that gentleman kept his eyes fixed on his ledger. "It will be rather awkward," thought Henry, "if this captain should come in without my making any explana- tion to this gentleman. Ahem." Mr. Bearcroft looked up. " The fact is, sir," said Henry, " that though my inquiry has been for Captain Thompson, I do not know him." "A letter of introduction, perhaps ?" said Mr. Bearcroft. ' No, indeed," replied Henry, smiling, " but I am about to go to America, and before I take my passage, I am anx- ious, I confess, to know the captain I am to sail with." " You are quite right," said Mr. Bearcroft, ' and if you will favor me with your name I will do myself the pleasure of introducing you to Captain Thompson, when he arrives." ; "Upon my word," thought Henry, "you are about the best-bred gentleman I have met with for sometime." lie was quite right in this, for to make another feel at ease, is the neplus ultra of good breeding, the opposite to which is that vulgar curiosity which fastens on a stranger like a hungry musquito. We have musquito bars, I wish some one would invent impertinent curiosity bars.   My name is Daly," replied Henry, presenting his card. "And you are about to go to America?" said Mr. Bear- croft. " Such is my intention; and this young gentleman ac- companies me." " You are not brothers, then ?" "We are not even relatives, yet we are very close friends, and intend to continue so." Mr. Bearcroft regarded them with growing interest. "I trust," he said, "we shall secure you as passengers on board the 'James Monroe.' I do not apprehend that our interest will suffer from your becoming acquainted with Captain Thompson, I wish we had many such captains in the ser- vice." He then turned to his ledger, made an entry, and, closing the book, entered into an animated conversation with Henry and Edward. He seemed much pleased with both his visitors, and they felt, in a short time, quite at home with him. All three were chatting very merrily together, when the door opened and a gentleman entered the room. In appearance, he was about fifty years of age; his features were handsome and pleasing, but there was a melancholy expression in his face, which Henry afterwards came to know was habitual to it, and which had not come there without cause. In appearance, he was the very opposite to a jolly tar, yet he was a good seaman, and the identical Captain Thompson Henry had been inquiring for. " Captain Thompson," said Mr. Bearcroft, rising, "allow me to introduce to you this gentleman. Mr. Daly, Captain Thompson." Both gentlemen bowed. "Shake hands, gentlemen," said Mr. Bearcroft, ' I hope you are going to be messmates for some time. Mr. Daly, captain, is about going to America, and this is Mr. Edward Yaughan, a young gentleman who is to accompany him." The captain took Edward's hand. As he did so the mel- ancholy expression'of his face deepened. "Louis would be about his age, now," he said to Bearcroft. "Yes, yes," answered the latter, adding quickly, "here is Mr. Daly, captain, who would have naught to say to us, until he had first seen the rig of the skipper."    404      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "' I cannot say that, Mr. Bearcroft," replied Henry, as I have had my mind made up for the last half hour to go in your vessel. I feel sure that the pleasure of knowing her captain, will but strengthen my resolve." "Come and see the vessel, herself, Mr. Daly," said the captain. "But how did you escape the pursuasive powers of Fisher, the clerk in the outer office?" "By not caring to listen to him," replied Henry, laughing. "That fellow's intriguing and lying to get passengers is intolerable, Mr. Bearcroft," said the captain; " he will get us all the name of man-catchers." "All his class are alike," replied Mr. Bearcroft. Some offices encourage them in this kind of thing, I am sure I do not.. It is wholly unnecessary, too," he added, addressing Henry,v "for freight pays just as well as passengers." "Well, Mr. Daly," said Captain Thompson, "I was on my way to the docks, when I called in here; if you come with me, I shall be happy to show you the 'James Monroe,' and the accommodation we can give you on board." s"I will accompany you, captain, but not to satisfy my- self any further. If you allow us, myself and my young friend will become your passengers." "What think you of the voyage, young gentleman?" asked the captain of Edward. "Oh, I like the idea very much, sir," replied the latter. "No fear of it, eh?." "No sir." "That is right; we will make a sailor of you before it is over." "He is half one already," said Henry, "his father was a sailor." "Ah, indeed!" "Yes, sir,'- said Edward, ",J am a sailor's orphan." "A sailor's orphan," repeated Captain Thompson, regard- ing him with much interest, " then we shall be great friends, I hope, for the same hand that left you an orphan, has taken from me a son, who, had he lived, would be now about your age. Thus it is: some are orphans and some are left child- less; but we know that, could we see it, all is wisely done. Come, Mr. Daly we will be moving."   'lTMiH DALYS Ul' MUALYb'T'UWN.   40 As Henry wished Mr. Bearcroft good-bye, the latter said, lc During your stay in Liverpool, Mr. Daly, I hope you will drop in now and then to see me." "I certainly shall do myself the pleasure, Mr. Bearcroft." ,And you, my young friend," continued the merchant, as he shook hands with Edward, " run in when, and as often as you please. By the way, where are you stopping?" Henry mentioned the name of his hotel. ," A first-rate house," said Mr. Bearcroft, "but people will tire sometimes of their hotel; when you do so, I shall ex- pect to see you." As they walked along, Captain Thompson asked Henry if he had known Mr. Bearcroft previously. '"No," replied Henry. "It was your name I mentioned when I called at the office." - "You had not, then, even a letter of introduction to him." "Certainly not." "I assure you, Mr. Daly," said the captain, "if you knew Mr. Bearcroft as well as I do, yoll would say that he has paid you a great compliment. I know people with whom he has transacted business for years, that he has never been so familiar with. It speaks very highly of you; for he is a good judge of character." "I have found him a very agreeable gentleman," said Henry. "He is always a gentleman," replied Captain Thompson,  : - " but generally cold and distant in his manner; yet, beneath that cold exterior, there is a warm heart. Here we are," he continued, as they entered one of the docks. "Come now, my young sailor, which of those is my vessel .? "I hope it is that one," replied Edward, pointing out a vessel. "You have hit upon her," said the captain. 'c Now that pleases me beyond anything." "Which one is it?" said Henry. "They seem to me all alike." "Oh you land-lubber. Tell him, Master Edward." "This one with the two flags, the Union Jack, and the American flag," said the boy. By this time -they were close to the vessel.   406      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "This is my first time, too, Captain Thompson,"' said Henry, " to stand in the presence of the American flag." "Off with your hat then, and do it reverence." Henry laughed and raised his hat. "Right," said the captain, lifting his own. "Your first time, Mr, Daly, to look upon the stars and stripes!" he con. tinued. i' Oh, I beheld that flag in its own waters when it had scarce strength to flutter." "You have been frequently in America, captain .5" "I am an American citizen, young gentleman. I am a 'Boston Boy,' Mr Daly." Henry looked at Captain Thompson; the melancholy ex- pression of his face had given place to one of enthusiasm. His eyes still rested on the flag of his country. '"It is such spirits," thought Henry, "that have given its young pinions strength to soar so proudly. Alas! poor Ire. land, my beloved country, you may not have even a flag for your children to look upon." "Well, Mr. Daly," said Captain Thompson, as they step- ped off the gangway, on board the vessel, "I bid you and your young friend a sailor's welcome to the James Monroe."' The vessels plying at the time I write of, between Liver- pool and New York, were, of course, far inferior to those of tile present day. But ten years had elapsed since the first steamer, only two hundred and fifty tons burthen, had cross- ed the Atlantic, so that Henry was very agreeably surprised by the appearance and accommodation of Captain Thomp- son's vessel, both being much better than he had expected. On his saying so, the captain informed him that the James Monroe was built for the East India trade, and that the next voyage, after the one she was about taking, would be to that part of the world. 1"Here are the state rooms," he continued, opening some doors off the cabin. "You can have a double one if you please." "I think we would prefer it," said Henry. "Yes, you will; it is more pleasant to be together. Here is one next to my own, which I will have marked off to you. And now you must take a glass of wine with me, to drink to out better acquaintance, and a prosperous voyage." When the toast was drank with due honor, Henry said,   - THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN*     7 '; You must have much to do, Captain Thomson, as sail so soon, so we will not detain you any longer. Monday is the dav, I think, mentioned in the advertisement." "Yes." "( And this is Friday," said Henry rising.       '. I suppose it is likely we will meet to-morrow," said the captain. '"At all events, Mr. Daly, let the boy come down to me, I will be on board all day, and as his taste lies in this way, he will find more to amuse him here than at an hotel. Edward gladly promised to be with the captain early on the following day, and shortly afterwards the two friends took their departure. They were in high spirits, and, as they walked along, Henry said, "Who shall say now, Edward, that there is nothing in a name. Was I not right in selecting, Thompson.?" "Do you think, Henry," said the boy archly, " that all the Thompsons are like our captain?"  "It is not fair of you, Edward, to try and make me re- sponsible for the whole Thompson family."  "And there is Mr. Bearcroft," continued Edward, " do you think you would have selected that name?" "Likely not, my boy, I would have thought that there was too much of the bear about it. At all events, we have been very fortunate up to this, in the acquaintances we have made." "My uncle Lyons used to say," replied Edward, laughing, -for his old dread of the attorney was long since gone-- "that every thing was in blasted luck." Henry's countenance changed. "Edward," he said, "let that man's name never be mentioned between us. -You, in- deed, have no reason to love it; but as for me, the very sound of it invokes passions in my breast that I fain, at lefst, would silence-never, I believe, will I be able to ban- ish them, altogether." Edward looked at his companion ; his brows were knit and his lips quivered. "Oh, pardon me, Henry," said the boy, "I have angered you.                ,. "No, Edward," replied Henry," at least you did not intend   408      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. to do it. I blame myself for forgetting to speak to you on the subject, to make a compact of silence between us as to this man's name. I cannot help regarding him as my fa. ther's murderer. There is blood between us, and, God for. give me, were I to allow myself to dwell upon this subject, I fear I would be almost a murderer in thought." They walked on in silence for sometime. Henry too much agitated, and Edward too much crestfallen, to speak. "We were so pleasant and happy just now," thought the boy. But Henry soon recovered his composure, and com-. menced again chatting with Edward on indifferent subjects. A ludicrous incident, which they witnessed, did much to restore both of them to good humor, for it made them laugh heartily. On turning into a street they encountered an itinerant preacher holding forth to a crowd of idlers gathered around him. He assured them that they were one and all hasten- ing to perdition, yet, still held out hopes of "the brand being snatched from the fire," and instanced himself as the recipient of divine grace. '"I was once, my hearers," he exclaimed, " as you are ; but the light entered here," and he tapped his chest with the tip of his finger, as if pointing at the exact hole through which the light had entered. "I will tell you," he continued, what my life was when I consorted with Satan, and what it is now that the light-" "Don't trouble yourself, avick," said a voice in the crowd, "sure the top av your nose shows there's not a pint of whisky difference."' The preacher recognized the Irish brogue, and forthwith launched out into a tirade against Popery and "' the scarlet woman sitting on seven hills." "What does he mean, Jack, about that ere woman sitting on seven hills?' said a sailor, who stood next to Henry, ad- dressing his companion. "I'm blessed if I know, Bill," replied the other, "I expect he got a slip at the captain's bottle, and can't see his course very well." Bill hitched up his trousers and nodded his head, as if quite satisfied by his messmate's explanation.   TRE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      409 "I back my Maggy, Jack," he said, " to have as broad a stern as most gals, and I wouldn't take upon myself to say  that in full blow she could cover the capstan, not to speak of sitting on seven hills." It was about two o'clock when the two friends reached , their hotel; the large coffee room was unoccupied when they entered it. Edward sat down to read a newspaper, but Henry, after taking a few turns up and down the room, approached him and said: "( Lay down your paper, Edward, I want to make you my confidant; so give all your attention to the confessions of Henry Daly." Edward smiled, as he put aside the paper. He guessed pretty well what these confessions would be about. "I will commence, Edward, by asking you, do you think I expect to meet with an old acquaintance in America?." "Say a sweetheart, Henry," replied the boy. "Sweetheart," said Henry, repeating the word, ( that is a very loving name. 'I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that , word.' Sweetheart, dear sweetheart Rose, oh! that sounds beautifully. After all, I suppose I have little to confess that you, Mr. Slyboots, have not found out already. But I love her, Edward--oh, so very, very well. But there is one thing perhaps you do not know, and that is, why, loving Rose as I do, and having her love in return, we were not married." "No, I never could make out why you were not, or why you let her go to America." ' As for the latter, Edward, I knew nothing about it ; even i if I did, perhaps I could not have prevented it. But I will tell you Rose's reasons for going. She thought, Edward, that our love interfered with the happiness of those dear to her; that I was surrounded by circumstances over which none of us had any control; that duty to my poor father and to family rank, which, as his heir, I was bound to uphold, should make me seek out a rich and high-born wife. All this is now past. Had my beloved father lived it is hard to say what sacrifice I might not be tempted to have made for him, btt I am now a free agent, a nameless wanderer, and when I again meet with Rose, it will be as an exile, like herself. Thus we will meet on equal ground, and Rose, dear sweetheart Rose, will be mine own."   "O      TBE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "It will be a great joy to you both when you meet." "It will, Edward, and yet a joy springing out of sorrow." He paused for a moment and then added, " but I have yet to discoverer where Rose has hid herself." "You do not know, then, what part of America she has gone to?'" "No, but in searching for such a treasure there is no such word as fail; I' do not apprehend much difficulty. Fortunately I know Mr. Kirwan's late address in this town, and I am now going to make inquiries there. Stay you here, and rest yourself until my return, which will be soon." "Why may I not accompany you?" said Edward. "I expect some letters," said Henry; 1"I would wish you to be here to receive them, in case they come while I am out, so au revoir." Half an hour's walk brought Henry to Mr. Kirwan's late residence; some bills upon the windows announced that it was to rent. Henry knocked at the door, but no one an- swered his summons; he then stooped over the railings and found, firom one of the bills, that all inquiries were to be made of Mr. James Quigly, of such a street and number. To Mr. Quigly Henry went, and inquired "' if he was the landlord of the house, 30 Park street." "A new tenant," thought Mr. Quigly; " very respecta- ble looking, too.1' Then aloud, "yes, sir; pray be seated; rather a misty day; allow me to stir up the fire." But when lie found that Henry's visit was not to lead to his getting a new tenant, but was made for the purpose of inquiry after an old one, Mr. Quigly's manner altered considerably. However, his answers, though short' were to the point. "He knew nothing of Mr. Kirwan; was treated badly by him; should have got a quarter's notice; did not know if he had removed to the antipodes or to the nest street, and didn't care a d-n which." Henry was much disappointed; he returned to the house in Park steet, stood opposite to it, walked up and down before it, stooped over the railing and looked down into the area; but seeing nothing there but a rat, who did not even wait to be questioned, it struck him he should make inquiries at some of the stores in the neighborhood.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      4" The first one he came to was a green grocer's or provis- ion store. It is proverbial that green grocers generally know all about their neighbors. There6 was a-good hu- mored-looking man standing behind the counter. !"I have called, sir," said Henry, "to ask if you could give me any information about a Mr. Kirwan, who resided, for some time, in Park street, near to you here?" I "You have just come, young gentleman, to the right place," replied the man, ' I know all about him." Henry was overjoyed. "Poor Mrs. Kirwan's and my wife's livers were,--two pounds of fresh butter, sir," addressing a customer who had just entered,--" affected the same way." Hienry waited until the customer was served and had de- parted. He then said, " you know, I hope, where Mr. Kir- wan has gone to?" "To be sure I do, answered the green grocer, "he always boulght his butter here, sir; he used to say he couldSnot get it so good anywhere else. Just try that butter, sir," he broke in, at the same time driving his thumb into a firkin, and presenting Henry with about the eighth of a pound, balanced on his nail."  Thank you," replied Henry, "I'd rather not, I am sure it is very good. Can you give me Mr. Kirwan's present address?"  ' Yes, sir. His present address is America, and as' sure as I live, some of us will follow him if taxco  on as they do. Can you tell me, now, what my taxes came to last year?'  "I really have no idea; I am quite a strangers Liverpool. But can you tell me to what part of America Mr. Kirwan has gone?"; "Ie's gone west, sir." "West," said Henry, "I but can you tell me the name of the state he has gone to?" "No, sir," replied the man. Henry felt disappointed. After all, my friend," he said, " your information is but vague. I thought from the way you spoke, that you could have given me more accurate information." 27   "2      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. The green grocer was nettled. He was one of those talk. ative fellows who wish to be considered as knowing much more than they actually do. "There is but north, south, east and west," he replied. "Tell me that a man I want to see, lives in the west of our borough here, and see if I don't find him out." "Without any disparagement to your borough, sir," said Henry, " there is some difference between it and the con. tinent of America." 'i Oh, no doubt, sir," replied the man. "However you have all the information I can give you. The very day be- fore Mr. Kirwan left, he came in here. ' Well, Squeezer,' says he, 'I'm off to America.' ' What part, Mr. Kirwan,' says I.' 'I'm going west, Squeezer,' says he 'I'll miss your beautiful butter. Good bye.' 'I wish you every luck, Mr. Kirwan,' says 1, and we shook hands, and I never laid a blessed eye on him since." "Perhaps," said Henry, " you could direct me to some person Mr. Kirwan was intimate with, and who may know, at least, the name of the state he has gone to." "4 Well, I think I can," replied Mr. Squeezer. "You had better call on Mr. Rooney, who lives in the next street." "The next street?" "Yes, sir. Number 44, just around the corner,-a large coffee-pot,-you can't miss it." "Thank you," said Henry, hurrying out, glad to get rid of Mr. Squeezer and his beautiful butter. He had pro- ceeded some distance down the other street, when he heard some one shouting after him. He turned round and saw the green grocer standing at the corner, beckoning to him. He hurried back. "I just called you back," said Squeezer, "to ask you to drop in when you're passing, and tell me what Rooney says, I may have to write to Kirwan if the taxes" This second disappointment was nearly too much for Henry's good temper, but the sense of the ludicrous over- came his anger. "I do not intend returning by your place, Mr. Squeezer, he said, " and it can make no difference to you, as there is only north, south, east, and west. Good bye.'   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,      413 Guided by the coffee pot, Henry entered the store over which it hung, but the only information Mr. Rooney could give, was, a that he believed Mr. Kirwan had gone to some one of the western states; which of them, he could not say." "Can you direct me to any one likely to know?" asked Henry. "I really cannot," replied Mr. Rooney. When Henry got into the street, he looked at his watch and found that it was later than he had supposed it to be. "I had better return to the hotel," he thought; ' Edward will be uneasy at my long absence, and I suppose I cannot get any more information in this locality; it is something, however, to have, what that prating fellow told me, confirm- ed by the person he directed me to. Rose, my beautiful flower, I too will go west, and- search through every state and territory until I find you." When he reached the hotel, Edward inquired what suc- cess he had. "Little, indeed," he replied; "I have been playing ' Send the fool'farther,' and all to no purpose." "You were not able, then, to find out Mr. Kirwan's ad- dress2" said Edward. "No, far from it; not even the name of the state he has gone to." Henry then related to his young friend the result of his' -inquiries. "Do you know the name of the vessel they sailed in?" asked Edward. "No," replied Henry;! and I never thought of asking those people. How stupid of me; but I will return at once." "Wait," said Edward; 'I think I know a better way of finding out. Do you know about what time Mr. Kirwan and his family left here?" "Oh, yes; the very date; poor Rose mentioned it in her farewell letter." "Then Captain Thompson can find out for you what ves- sels left this port at that date, for America. The vessel they went in may be in port here at this very time." "You are a glorious fellow, Edward," replied Henry,   "4      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "and have twice my brains. We will see Captain Thomp.' son in the morning. Did he not say that he would be on board?" "Yes; you remember he asked me to go down to him." "We will go together, Edward; I have no doubt but that lie will be able to find out by. what vessel they left. God send she is in port." The next morning our two travelers were early down at the docks. They found Captain Thompson on board his vessel; he shook hands with them in the most cordial man- ner. "I did not expect the pleasure of seeing you down here so early, Mr. Daly," he said. "I have a selfish motive in coming to see you this morn- ing, captain," replied Henry. "What may it be?" asked the captain. Henry informed him. "' You say they left on the 20th of March," said Captain Thompson. ' Come into the cabin; we will, I think, have no difficulty in finding out by what vessel they went. We will leave this young sailor in charge of the deck. Mr. Sims," he continued, addressing the first mate, " this young gentleman Will be a passenger of ours. I am going below for a few moments, and will leave him in your charge. Show him anything you think will interest him." , Aye, aye, sir," answered the mate. The captain and Henry then went to the cabin, and the former, taking a file of papers, commenced looking over them. "Yes, here it is," he said; "but one vessel sailed for the port of New York on the 20th of March, the Birkenhead. She is now in this port, and lies a little way down the river. Mr. Sims," he called from the cabin door. "Aye, aye, sir." "Do you know if Captain Jackson is on board the Birk- enhead .' "Yes sir; I saw him going out to her, in his boat, this morning," replied the mate. "All right,"' said the captain, turning to Henry, "( amuse yourself as best you can by looking over those old papers, or you will find books up there. I will be disengaged in   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     415 half an hour and will then accompany you on board the Birkenhead." "I am really distressed, Captain Thompson," said Henry, "at giving you all this trouble." "But you can't help it," replied the captain, laughing, '"Say nothing about it, Mr. Daly, I do not pay you the com- pliment that you think I do, for I have some business my- self with Captain Jackson." Henry awaited the captain's return, and at the expira- tion of half an hour the latter and Edward entered the cabin. "I assure you, Mr. Daly," said the captain, our young friend here knows a good deal about a vessel."     r "He has been on board a good many with his father," replied Henry. "Ah, so he tells me, poor fellow. I think I must try and coax him away from you." "It would be difficult to part us, captain." "Well, I will not use a press gang, but I would like such a companion in my lonely voyages. 'Now, Mr. Daly, I am ready." When the party stepped into the boat the captain said: "' Take the helm, my boy, and let me see how you can' steer. Sit here, Mr. Daly. You see that vessel, Master Edward, about half a mile off lying in the middle of the river?" "Aye, aye, sir," replied Edward. "Well, steer for her; give way, men." The tide favoring them, they were soon alongside of the Birkenhead. Edward remained in the boat, while Captain Thompson and Henry went on board. When the latter was introduced to the captain of the Birkenhead, he briefly stated the business on which he came. Captain Jackson informed him that there 'as' a gentleman of the name of Kirwan, together with his family, and a young lady named O'Donnell, passengers on board his vessel, during the last trip to New York." "Yes," said Henry, overjoyed, "those are they I seek for. Can you tell me, captain, what state they have gone to .?" The captain considered for some time. "I fear I cannot," he replied, "further than that they were bound west."   "6      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Might not the direction have been on some of their luggage," suggested Captain Thompson. "That is just what I have been thinking of," replied the other, " and I now remember perfectly well that all their things were marked New York." "Did they all land in good health, captain?" asked Henry. "Excellent," replied the captain. "One of the children caught the measles, but she was well before we landed.", "Yes, yes," isaid Henry, " but the grown up people?" vs "Well, Mrs. Kirwan, poor woman, complained a little of a pain in her side" "Yes, I know," said Henry, interrupting,c" but" "Oh, Mr. Kirwan's health you are anxious about? Well he told me he never felt better; his appetite was better than when he was on shore. The first thing he did every morn- ing, was" " Oh, d-n his appetite, captain," exclaimed Henry. "I beg you pardon, but I am very anxious to know" Captain Jackson laughed outright. "You are anxious to know how Miss O'Donnell was," he said. "Ah! young gen- tleman, it takes an old sea-dog to tell what's in the wind's eye. You will .pardon me for teasing you; Miss O'Donnell was perfectly well, but out of spirits, I should say. The most beautiful girl, captain, I ever saw." Both captains looked at Henry, and he felt himself blush- ing like a girl. "I am indeed sorry," said Captain Jackson, " that I can give you no information as to their destination after they landed, but you will find some one in New York who will know it. You intend going there, you tell me?" "Yes," replied Henry, ' but I know no one in New York, of whom I could make inquiry." "Well, an advertisement in the papers will find Mr. Kir- wan out."  "I was thinking of that," said Henry. "Never fear, Mr. Daly," said Captain Thompson, " we will hunt them up for you, when we get to New York." As Captain Thompson was in a hurry to get back to his vessel, and Henry could find out nothing further by delay- ing, they wished Captain Jackson good morning, and got   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN-     417 into their boat. Edward judged by Henry's countenance that he did not get the information he sought for, so he ask- ed no questions. "You must not be cast down, Mr. Daly," said Captain Thompson, when they were again under way, " we will find out your friends for you when we-reach New York.. If our interview with Captain Jackson had been more satisfactory, I would be inclined to quiz you, short as our acquaintance has been, for I guess that there is a little romance in this business." Henry was indeed much cast down, and Edward deter- mined to return with him to the hotel rather than spend the day on board the James Monroe, as he had at first intended. On taking their leave of Captain Thompson, he inquired of Henry if he intended calling upon Mr. Bearcroft. Henry answered " yes." "I am glad to hear it," said the captain. "He Has taken quite a fancy to both of you, and told me yesterday evtening he hoped you would call on him again. Remember, Mr. iJ rly, to have your traps on board Monday, and you must be on board yourself Monday evening. We will endeavor to get down the river with the morning's tide, which will answer at four o'clock, too early an hour for you to be starting from your hotel." Henry promised to be punctual, and he and Edward quit- ted the James Monroe. Mr. Bearcroft was evidently glad to see them. When they entered his office, he closed his ledger, and wheeled round his chair, like one who settled himself for a social chat. An idle man could never appreciate the enjoyment. this business man felt in conversing with those two, whom chance had thrown in his way. They appeared so fresh, youthful and unsophisticated, that to converse with them, was, to his jaded spirit, like taking a walk in the old garden he had left many a day ago; and he, on his part, was so gentlemanlike, so little inquisitive, and ybt so winning and affable in his manner, that before Henry rose to take his departure,-which was not for two good hours, from the time of his entering the office-he had confided to Mr. Bear- croft an outline of his past life and present position. After   "8      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. all, perhaps, thele is none more winning or warm than the cold, distant man, when he unbends; whom, perchance, the hollowness of the world had first made retire into himself, shutting the hearths door in the false jade's face. I remem- ber, when a boy, playing one day in a field we called the blind well field. Years before there had been an attempt made to sink a well here, but some how they failed to find a spring, and the work was abandoned; the hole thus left was always called" the blind'well." The day I allude to, our play was " hunt the hare," and one of the boys went to hide in the blind well; whilst crouching down he amused himself picking pebbles from its side, when out gushed the sparkling waters. It is sometimes so with your cold, reserv- ed man. The world (the common laborer,) delves and hacks, and the ground remains dry, and barren; a child pass- ing by, pauses, touches the hidden spring, and lo! the liv- ing wates, pent up for years in the recesses of the heart, leap out. "I am sorry, Mr. Daly," said Mr. Bearcroft, as he accom- panied his visitors to the door of his office, " that you leave so soon. Had you a few days to spare, I would have had much pleasure in showing all that is worth seeing in our town." Henry thanked him, promised to call on the following Monday, and took his departure. There were two letters awaiting him at the hotel; one from Emily and one from Doctor Kelly. All were well at home, and both letters were cheerful in their tone. Henry read them aloud, and when he came to that part of Emily's, in which she sent her love to Edward, the boy's face glowed with delight. Neither he or Henry left the hotel during the remainder of the day; the letters were often looked over, and chatting on the subjects they gave rise to, made the time pass quickly by. In the evening another letter arrived; it was from Mr. Bearcroft, brought by his porter, containing an invitation to the two friends to dine with the merchant, at his country seat, on the following day. Mr. Bearcroft proposed to call for them at three o'clock in the afternoon, and drive them out in his cab. c( What say you, Edward?" asked Henry.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,      4 19 "Oh, just as you please," replied Edward. "Very well, then, we will go; he has been very civil to us." Accordingly Henry wrote a note, accepting the invita- tion, and promising to be ready at the time mentioned. Punc- tual to his appointment, Mr. Bearcroft drove up to the hotel 'on the following day, just as the clock was striking three, and Henry and Edward stepped into his cab and set off for his country residence. "I am glad to see you are not a Puritan, Mr. Daly," said Mr. Bearcroft, as they drove along. "I had some fears that you would not accept my invitation, as it was for Sunday, but it is the only day we men of business have to ourselves, neither would to-morrow answer you, as Captain Thompson tells me he must have you on board in the evening. I have asked him to meet you to-day." "I like him very much," said Henry. "You will like him still better," replied Mr. Bearcroft, "as you become more intimate with him." They spent a very agreeable evening at Mr. Bearcroft's. Everything was in good taste. Henry was surprised to find his children so young-the eldest not more than twelve; and Mrs. Bearcroft might have passed for Mr. Bearcroft's daughter. But the merchant had married late in life; some few, who knew him well, said "it was a love match;"- whereupon the world giggled. "Bearcroft in love! The cold, calculating, money-making Bearcroftf in love!"And the world held its rotten sides and laughed. "Bearcroft had got bitten-taken in-and would be found, one of these days, hanging to a beam." But the world was too hasty in its view of the matter, and should have suspended its judg- ment, and not Mr. Bearcroft, for it turned out that he was far too happy to think of hanging himself. "You forget the office, here," said Henry, as Mr. Bear- croft sat after dinner with his children grouped around him. "No, Mr. Daly, I Can't say I do," replied the host; " forI remember that it is attention to business which enables me to give this home to my children. Come, now, scamper off," he continued, playfully addressing them; "you have eaten all the fruit. We will join you presently, love," he said, as Mrs. Bearcroft rose to leave the room. Henry   420      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. opened the door for her, Edward followed with the children and in half an hour or so afterwards, Mr. Bearcroft and lis guests joined them in the drawing room. CHAPTER   XXIX. I hope my readers will appreciate my forbearance in not inflicting upon them a chapter, recounting the clearing out of the James Monroe from the Liverpool docks. Let them not suppose that I have not the materials wherewith to do it; I have plenty on hand; I have lots of emigrants and' their baggage; lots of boxes and cordage; pyramids of tins --I have emigrants weeping, laughing, dancing, drinking, and fighting. I have a drunken man, for whom his friends searched high and low, and at last found in a public house, embracing a forbidding-looking gentleman, whom he had never seen before, and swearing that they should never part. I can tell how that man was hurried by his friends down to the dock and into the-river. I could tell how that man felt after he had been rescued from drowning;--how he felt previous to the accident, perhaps some of my readers know already; but I forbear, these things have been told over and over again. I prefer boarding the James Mon. roe, as she speeds over the blue waves of the Atlantic, the Irish coast, like a dark mist behind, and a world of waters before. There were not more than one hundred steerage passengers on board, and but one cabin passenger, besides our two friends-a widow lady. Her husband and herself had arrived from America, in England, (their native coun- try,) a few months before, on business. The former died   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      421 shortly after landing, and the widow was now returning to her children, in America. On the evening of the third day at sea, they lost sight of land. Edward, who was contin- ually on deck, came rushing into Henry's state room to apprize him of the fact. The latter had lost sight of it at a much earlier period, for from the time the vessel had left the river he lay helpless in his berth. During thlf[ime, his mind was almost a blank; he neither thought of the home he had left, or of the one he hoped to build up for himself in a foreign land ; scarcely of the dear one he expected to meet. Yes, it must be confessed, the image of Rose O'Don- nell paled before the actual presence of pale brandy and water.' What little contemptible pieces of crockery on two legs are we; how we strut and bluster about our passions, and their indomitable strength ; yet a little bile knocks them all of a heap. However, Henry felt much better this evening, and previous to Edward's visit, had been looking on (his state room door being open, and having failed in a hopeless attempt to close it,) at a cotillion party, which some volatile bandboxes, and other equally light charac- ters, had got up in the cabin. They went through the fig- ures, advance, ladies change, set to your partners, all prome- nade, &c., &c., in very graceful though eccentric style. Therp were two rather weighty trunks in Henry's state room, one over the other, and the topmost one took it into his head to join the party outside. So the unwieldy fellow went tumb- ling off his companion, and bumping out the narrow door, appeared amongst the dancers. There was a lull, just then, 'during which the trunk seemed to be regarding the band- boxes, and they him; but a lurch of the vessel made him quickly- make up his mind, and he slid, as gracefully as he could, to the nearest bandbox, to the great amusement of the cotillion party, for they at once commenced jumping over him, sometimes landing on him, and at others clear- ing him in the most agile manner; then again; skipping up to him, and poking him in the side in a playful way. I re- gret to say that the trunk lost temper at this little poking, and resented it in the most unhandsome, nay, unmanly man- ner; for taking advantage of a heavy lurch, it followed one of the bandboxes that had just cleared him, and squash-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ed it against the side of the cabin, whereupon its compan. ions retreated to different corners, and the sea getting down at the same time, the dancing ceased for the evening. I am happy to say that the trunk suffered for his cowardly attack on unprotected finery, for the lid flew open, and a spruce Wellington boot jumped out, probably by way of protest. ing thatlt would have no foot in such ungentlemanly con- duct. "It is a beautiful evening, Henry," said Edward, (and the sea is getting quite calm. Captain Thompson has been asking for you; he says now that he has got sea room and time to spare, he will come for you himself to get you on deck." " Not a doubt of it," said the captain, entering; "how do you feel, Mr. Daly?" "I am much better, thank you," replied Henry." "Well, then, get up and join us at supper; do you think you could eat anything ?" " I think I could," replied Henry. "You are all right, then," said the captain. "Edward and myself have been all alone since we put to sea, for the' poor lady we have on board has never left her state room. The stewardess tells me that she is in profound grief. No wonder, poor lady, it is sad Tews she is bearing home to her little ones. We must do all we can for her, if she joins us in the cabin one of these days. Have you ever seen sunset at sea, Mr. Daly 2" '" Not unless where land was visible."  ~ "Get up, then, and you will be in time to see it. The fresh air, too, will revive you, and give you an appetite for supper." '' I don't think I require to coax an appetite, captain, for since the sea-sickness left me I feel rather hungry." " You certainly have a ravenous look about the eyes," replied the captain, " but I am rejoiced to find you able to join us, not but that Edward and myself made very excel- lent company for bne another, and have became very inti- mate friends; what say you Edward ?" But without waiting for an answer, the Captain hurried out, leaving Henry to dress. He felt very weak at first,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.          423 and had to hold on by his young companion as they went on deck. ," You have not got your sea legs yet, Henry," said Ed- ward. ,"Well," he replied, "I hope old Father Neptune will give me a pair as soon as possible, for he has left my own nearly useless." They were soon joined by Captain Thompson; " sit down here, Mr. Daly," he said, "'and tell me what you think of sunset at sea." Henry looked in the direction the captain pointed to; the sun was just dipping into the sea. "This is not a favorable evening," continued the captain. "The sky is too clear; we want more clouds scattered 'around to reflect its rays; but what think you of it as it appears now ?" "I much prefer sunset on land," replied Henry, "or when the land forms a portion of the landscape; there is too great a waste about this view, and yet it is very beau- tiful." Henry remained on deck for about half an hour, when the steward came to summon him to supper. The open air had much refreshed him, and he did ample justice to the meal, at which Captain Thompson presided. After this his sea-legs came quickly enough to him, and in a week he was able to pace the quarter deck with Captain Thompson or Edward, even when the sea was somewhat rough. As for Edward, he.was, in truth, on his native element; no sooner on the forecastle than on the quarterdeck, then down on the maindeck and up the rigging. He soon became a great favorite with the sailors, and his call was as promptly an- swered by, " aye, aye, sir," as if the captain had hailed. The latter, too, became much attached to him. Often, when the boy was reading or otherwise engaged, he would fix his eyes upon him, the shadow would deepen on his face, and his whole countenance assume a sad, abstracted look. He would awake from such reveries with a start, and go for- ward to attend to some duty; but more than once would he sigh while so engaged, like one whose mind had been in the past and came back burdened with its memories.    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Mrs. Fairbanks (such was the name of the lady passen. ger,) scarcely ever appeared in the cabin during the voy. age, and thus left to their own companionship, it was not surprising that a close intimacy sprung up between Captain Thompson and his two passengers, which soon ripened inlto warm friendship. There was nothing in Henry Daly's past life which he wished to conceal, so he spoke freely of it. to the captain, and as the latter was an enlightened Amer. ican, he was glad to consult him on his future course. "You are bringing means to my country, Mr. Daly," said the captain, one evening to Henry, " that properly applied, will secure you affluence. By settling down in some one of the new States, where you can purchase a large tract of land, for a quarter of your capital, you could actually sit down and let wealth grow around you. The sound of the axe approaching you through the forest, would be the har. binger of prosperity." " I would not have my own axe silent," said Henry. "Of course not; though I expect you do not intend using it yourself." "Why not? If I am to be a back-woodsman, I will be one in reality." "I am glad to hear you say so; there is nothing we dis- like more in America than an idle man. But you need not toil like those who have no capital; your means will permit you to employ help; yet many a man has gone into the woods with naught but his axe and a brave heart, and hewn his way to independence." " Such a man should feel very proud," said Henry. " So he does," replied the captain. "If you care to study such things, mark the difference (and you will have plenty of opportunities to do so in the country you are going to,) between him who has fought with nature-if I may use such an expression-to achieve an independence, and he who has battled for it amongst men. The former is open, frank and confiding; the latter, cautious, and, from experience, mistrustful; and these different feelings are often stamped upon their features.' "But should they meet in life's battle, captain," said Henry, would not he whose experience was derived from   men, be an over match for the other; would not the confid- ing nature of the latter betray him ?" " Perhaps," replied Captain Thompson, "I should have said confident rather than 'confiding,' for his confidence is more in himself than in others. The book of nature that is ever open to him, gives vigor and clearness to a mind which has never been clouded by the doubts and fears which beset him who has met with a thousand disappoint- ments amongst meeff  The traveler who has been robbed on a certain road, when passing over it again, will delay himself on his journey by continually pausing and looking around, while he who knows nothing of all this will go straight forward, without any delay, to his destination; and of the two, he has, I think, the better chance of reaching it m safety." 'I believe there is much truth in what you say," said Henry. "You remember the Grecian general, Agesilaus, who always deceived the enemy by letting them know the exact truth." " Good," said the captain. "Truth is such a stranger in the world, that people are not apt to recognize it when it appears." " But those fine fellows in the woods, Captain Thompson, never lie," said Edward. A smile stole to the captain's face. v "Well, Edward," he replied, "I must confess that they have their weaknesses, as well as others. Get one of them on a land speculation, and he will lie all the week round, and not ask to rest on Sunday." Henry laughed. "Now this is not fair of you, Captain Thompson," he said; "you raise a noble temple, and while Edward and myself are gazing at its beauty, you deface it." "What could you expect, my friend," replied the captain, "it was but of earth, after all." "Yet we cannot forgive you for destroying our model backwoodsman." " Those models, Mr. Daly, are never true, when applied to a class. The rough western man is, in general, about as hon- est a rascal as you may meet with; and that's as much as can be said of most men."'   426      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Often, in these conversations, Henry alluded to his in. tended search for Rose O'Donnell; once he said: "'I confess, captain, that a doubt (which at first never disturbed me,) of my not being able to discover her groNws stronger, now that I have time to consider how strange it was that all clue to the family, with whom she went, seemed lost in a place where they had resided for years, and left but a few months previous to my inquiries." "It is but natural," replied the captain, " that your anxiety should increase as the time approaches in which you hope to rieet with her, and that this over-anxiety should give birth to doubts and fears; but you must remember how short your stay in Liverpool was." "Yes, that was a great mistake. I should have remained longer. Would that I had done so." ' I am selfish enough to be very glad that you did not. Nor would your doing so be of any use. If necessary, you can write to Mr. Bearcroft, and he will make every inquiry possible, in the neighborhood of their old home, while you are prosecuting your search for their new one. Remember that ' the course of true love never did run smooth ;' but in truth there does not appear to be many breakers ahead of your's. Just enough to make you enjoy smooth water, when you reach to it. What would love be without a little ro. mance?' "I would willingly forego the latter," replied Henry. "Oh fye, so faint-hearted," said the captain. "What would become of you if you had to rescue your fair lady from an enchanted castle, guarded by a fiery dragon, with a tail that a comnet's would be but a fire cracker to?" "But seriously, captain, what do you recommend me to do, when we arrive at New York?" "AWe will first make inquiries at the office of the Birken- head; the people there will, very likely, be able to give the information you require. Nothing more probable than that Kirwan consulted them on his route ; but if he did not, and you can get information in no other way, you must adver- tise in the New York papers." "But neither Mr. Kirwan, or any member of his family, may ever see one of those papers."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     427 "By requesting to have it done, your advertisement will be copied into the western papers." "But they may have settled down in some out of the way place, where a paper is never seen," persisted Henry. "It is not likely," answered the captain, " that an intel- ligent man, like Kirwan, would be without a newspaper. You tell me that he was induced to emigrate in consequence of having been left some landed property by a relative. It is probably cleared land; if so, depend upon it that there is a village at no great distance, and where there are twenty houses together in America, one of them is sure to be a newspaper office." Perceiving that Edward Vaughan had, in truth, a great taste for everything connected with a vessel, Captain Thompson commenced giving him lessons in navigation, and Henry remarked that in the science of his profession, as well as in general literature, the captain seemed remark- ably well informed. "If merchant captains are in general like him," thought  Henry, they are very different persons from what I sup- posed thlem to be; but, as he said himself, models are nev- er true, when applied to a class." At times, Captain Thompson would seem quite elated at the rapid progress Edward was making under him; but this pleasure was always short-lived, and he would say:  ; "After all, what is the use of this, when you are so soon to leave me. I would, Edward, we were not to part so soon." Then he would look at Henry Daly, like one who wished , to speak further, yet feared to do so. At such times, Henry always felt uneasy and disturbed, he scarcely knew why, and endeavored to change the con- versation. Then the shadow would darken on the captain's face, and he would hurry on deck. If Edward followed, he generally found him pacing the quarterdeck, so lost in thought, that the boy might walk for several minutes by his side without his presence being noticed. "Has Captain Thompson ever spoken to you of his past life, Edward?'" asked Henry one day, when the two were alone. "No," replied the boy. 28   428      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Or mentioned anything about his family, or whether he has one?" "No; but there is hanging up in his state-room, the like. ness of a lady, and also one of a little boy. I saw him, one day he brought me in there, looking at themn for a long time, and when he turned round I am sure there were tears in his eyes." "Poor man," said Henry, "I have no doubt but that he has met with some great sorrow. You may remember he told us that he had lost a son." "That must be his son's likeness then, Henry, that is in his room, and the likeness of his wife. Perhaps she, too, is dead. Oh! Henry, how I do pity him." "Hush, I hear his step, and we must not pry into his sad secrets, if he has such." They were now one month at sea, with half the voyage accomplished. The weather up to this had been fine, too much so, indeed, for making good headway, and they had several calms. When these occurred the poor emigrants came on deck out of the dreary steerage, to breathe the fresh air. When it was a perfect calm a fiddle generally made its appearance amongst them, and, in a short time, they were dancing, singing and laughing as merrily as if within the shadows of their native mountains, with the green sward beneath their feet. Henry often went among them, while Edward, perched upon the highest yard, would shout down his challenge to him to ascend. During those calms, too, Mrs. Fairbanks had been induced to go on deck for short intervals, lest her health might suffer from continual con- finement. The gentlemen paid her every attention in their power, but, though thankful for such, it was evident that the poor lady preferred being left quietly to herself. The twentieth of August found the James Monroe off the banks of Newfoundland. When Henry Daly went on deck that morning the weather was beautiful, the wind scarcely strong enough to propel the vessel three knots an hour, sometimes ceasing altogether, and letting the sails flap idly against the masts. There were some sailors washing the deckl and Henry addressed one of them: "It is a fine morning," he said, " but we want a little more wind to drive us along."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      429 "We'll have it soon enough, sir," answered the man. '"Do you see those little white clouds, just in the wind's eye?" "Yes.? "Well, we'll have wind from that quarter, soon, that will blow your hat off." "If it does no worse than that," replied Henry, "I wish it would come." The captain just then came on deck and Henry joined him. "One of the sailors thinks, captain, that we are going to have some wind." "Yes," answered Captain Thompson, who had been look- ing to windward, (' and a stiff breeze too." "I have not witnessed a storm at sea yet," said Henry, ' and was almost longing for one." "Never long for one, Mr. Daly," said the captain, gravely. "We sailors can perceive its approach, but God only knows what its results will be, how many wrecks it may leave be- neath the waves, how many wrecked hearts it may leave to mourn that its fury had spared them." Henry looked at Captain Thompson; his face was still turned to windward, but it was evident that his thoughts were more with the past than the present. After a little he turned and gave some orders to the mate, and wh6n he was again disengaged Henry remarked: "This is the 20th of August, a day that brings many pleasant recollections to my mind; for it is the first day of the shooting season in Ireland." Captain Thompson started, and grasped Henry's arm. "Speak not," he said, " of this clay and its associations. To me, Mr. Daly, it is the darkest that man could know. On it, my friend, the great mnisfortune of my life occurred." Henry was shocked. "'I am grieved beyond measure, Captain Thompson,'" he said, " that I should have pained you thus by my careless remark." "You need make no excuse, my friend," replied the cap- tain. "What I allude to is ever present to my mind. Some other time, perhaps, I will tell you more of this. I must go, now, and see that the ship is made all taut, for the wind is coming up fast."   430      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. 9' Do you apprehend danger, captain?" "No, no; we have plenty of sea room, for I have kept well to the south." Henry remained on the quarterdeck for some time after the captain had quitted him, and before he left it the wind had freshened to a stiff breeze, which increased at nightfall to a storm; but, fortunately, it blew right astern, and the vessel, stripped all to two or three sails to steady her, sped gallantly before it. When night set in Henry and Edward remained on deck, holding on by the belaying pins. To them, it was a novel and a grand sight, to see the ves. sel now mounting to the top of a huge billow, as the moon flitted through her strained cordage, then darting-like an arrow shot from a mountain, into the valley beneath-down into the sea, and meeting, with a gallant thrill, the fierce wave which had hurried to engulf her; then, all dripping, she would arise on the crest of her vanquished foe, while the baffled wind shrieked through her rigging. Henry Daly had read many descriptions of storms at sea, and of vessels scudding before the wind, and he now found himself comparing many of those with the actual scene be. fore him. "I think, Edward," he said, "if I had never read of a ves- sel being compared to a fiery charger, the comparison would strike me now. One could almost imagine that an invisi- ble hand held those cords, and endeavored to restrain the gallant creature, seemingly endowed with life, in her mad career." "'The simile strikes you more than it would others," re- plied Captain Thompson, who had just joined them, " be- cause you have been accustomed to fiery chargers. How- ever, your adopting it is a good evidence of its aptness. We will go into the cabin for a while; everything is taut and snug, and I think that the gale is abating. When they entered the cabin, Captain Thompson sat down by the table, and, resting his head upon his hand, fell into thought. He had not spoken much to his two passen- gers during the day, and they had never seen him so deject- ed. At length he raised his head, and said, "I am but indif-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      431 ferent company, to-night, Mr. Daly, but when you know the cause, you will rather wonder that I am so calm. This is the anniversary of the day on which I lost a wife and child, my all on earth." Edward looked at the melancholy face before him,-now grown doubly sad,--and his heart was filled with pity. "(I knew not," said Henry, in a low voice, "that you had mlet with so terrible an affliction." "Terrible, indeed," replied the captain, ' and yet you see I live, act, and toil like other men, as if I had an interest, an object in life; but not one, not one. My- treasures lie buried in the sea, and I am alone in the world, without an object or a hope to toil for. Why, then, do I toil? From habit, perhaps, or to try and banish thought. Were I to sit down idle, and give myself time to think, I Would go mad." Edward turned away his head, for his eyes were full of tears. Captain Thompson remarked his emotion. "Come, Edward," he said, "and sit down beside me. Neither of you could sleep while this storm lasts, and as I have told you so much, Mr. Daly, I will give you a sketch of my past life, if you care to listen to it."7 "I would like to hear it, indeed," replied Henry, " if it would not distress you too much to relate some of its inci- dents." "No," replied the captain. "It is terrible, for years, to be brooding over one great sorrow, and to have no one that you can unburthen your heart to. Perhaps, too, I have an object in relating to you my history, and a favor to ask." He paused for some time, and then commenced to relate that which I shall set down in the next chapter.   4:32     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER XXX. "I believe," said the captain, " it is best that I should be- gin at the beginning. Not that my life has been marked by incidents worthy of being noticed in a regular form, but by showing you what my position was in my early years; how lonely and isolated; none to love me as their own, no one to cling to me as I went forth, or to welcome me when I returned; how the yearning that this left in my heart was at length satisfied, and how, oh God!. the avalanche came down, sweeping all for ever from my sight, you will be bet- ter able to judge why it is that I am a man, moving, act- ing, and busy amongst men, yet without an object in com- mon with them, without one hope by which they are sus- tained. I told you, when first we became acquainted, that I was a Boston boy. I may indeed call myself a child of the revolution. That event, which brought freedom and hap- piness to millions, was, at its outset, disastrous to me, for by it I lbost both my parents. "You know when and where the first collision occurred between the British troops and the patriots. AMy father was one of those who were dispatched from Boston to apprize the patriots of General Gaines's intended movements against them. He fell in the skirmish which took place the day after he quitted Boston, and the shock of hearing of his death was supposed to have killed my mother, who died within a few hours after. I was borri. My father was well known in Boston, as an ardent patriot, and even amidst the confusion and misery around I was cared for by some of his brother patriots. Ere they left Boston, I was placed in the care of a respectable family, and a sum sufficient to com- pensate them for my maintenance during my childhood, was deposited in their hands. "I am not going to tire you with a recital of childhood's days, but, so far as to say, that at the very dawning of reason,   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      433' I felt, somehow, that I was a creature more lonely and iso- lated than other children. I have since seen children sim- ilarly situated, who did not seem to feel as I did then; per- haps it was not noticed in me at the time. "If any of the children of the family with whom I re- sided and myself fell out, they were sure to turn on me' and say, ' you're not our brother, our ma's not vour ma.' When their parents, who were invariably kind to me, intro- duced us to visitors, they would remark, pointing to me:' he is not ours, he is son to Mr. Frank Thompson, who was killed by the Britishers, and, indeed, his mother, too, poor soul.  "All this, at the time, awoke in my heart two very strong feelings: a hatred of the Britishers,-as they were called,- and an intense longing to have some one to love me, be- cause I belonged to them. The first of these have long since passed away, but the latter has remained with me through life, in. one form or another. In my childhood, it was the yearning for kindred. As I passed along the street, I used to picture to myself how I should feel if the handsome, good natured-looking gentleman I met \th, could stop, and, tak- ing me by the hand, say, this is nf son; or could that fair young matron but twine a mother's arms around my neck, and give me a mother's kiss. I have followed children in tile street, whom I knew to be brother and sister, in order to hear how they would speak to each other; and so acute and morbid did my feelings become on this subject, that at home I could distinguish a difference in the tone of the mother's voice, as she casually addressed her own children gnd myself. This may have been imaginary, for she was, as I have told you, always kind to me; in punishing us, she was certainly more lenient to me, but when it came to the making up, to the kiss and forgive, how I envied the young urchin who had received the severer punishment. "Thus passed my childhood, until the shout of victory rang in my young ears, and the stars and stripes went forth upon the sea, a messenger of hope and promise to the king- crushed nations of the earth. "I see you smile, Mr. Daly, at my enthusiasm, but be it known to you that we Americans never speak of that event in plain prose."   434      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "I am not surprised," said Henry. C"You, indeed, have a good right to feel proud of it." "And so we do, sir," replied Captain Thompson; "but to continue: Some of those who had left me in charge of Mrs. Miller,-that was the name of the lady with whom I resided,-z-returned home safe and triumphant, others of them had given their lives for their country. In that hour of wild joy, I was not forgotten; for patriotism, in those days, was in men's hearts, active, self sacrificing, and benevolent, and the orphan of him who fell at the very commence- ment of the struggle for liberty, was thought of when that liberty was achieved. I remember, as if it were yesterday, being sent for and conducted by Mr. Miller into a large room, where a number of gentlemen were sitting at a long table. ' This is Frank Thompson, gentlemen,' said my guar- dian, ' the boy whom you wished to see.' "4They all turned round and looked at me ' you have taken good care of him Miller,' said one of them, a rough, sun-burnt man. H-ow are you boy? "Very well, thank you, sir," I replied. "a You don't know me,' he continued. "No sir." "' Nor remember my carrying you in my arms to Mr. Miller's?' "No sir." "Very odd that, seeing you were, at the time, forty- eight hours old, or thereabouts, but I suppose I am a little changed, as-we have had some rough work since. This, gentlemen, lie continued, as he addressed the others, 'is the boy I have been speaking to you about; his father was a brave, true-hearted patriot, and died for the liberty we now enjoy; he cannot share our triumph, but his child shall reap some of the advantages. Would we could suc- cor the children of all who have fallen.' "'His mother is dead, likewise, is' she not?' asked another of those present. "'Yes, she died from the shock of her husband's death. This boy has no relatives in the world, that I know of.' "Oh how those words struck upon my heart, calling up the old feelings in full force.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      435 ,cWhat would you like to be, my little man '. asked one of the gentlemen. "I'd like to be a sea captain, sir, and to go fight the Britishers," I replied. "There was a general smile at this, and he who had first spoken in my behalf, said: "'Bravely answered, and I don't see why you should not be one; but as for fighting the Britishers I guess they're all clean whipped already.' "Did you kill them all, sir?"I asked. "He laughed as he answere  t " --- let a few make tracks home, boy, just to have "them tei , iiat queer, long- legged runaway critters we Yankees are.' "The gentlemen conversed for some time amongst them- selves, and I overheard my friend saying: "He seems a brave, smart boy; our young navy will want many such, and I think it is the best thing we can do for him.' Then he addressed me: ' My boy,' he said, ' before you go to whip any one, you must go to school. Mr. Miller would you have any objection to keep him still in your charge?" "'On the contrary,' replied my guardian, 'I would be very loth to part with him.' "'Then he is to -remain with you for the present, and you will send him to school regularly.' "Accordingly, I returned home with Mr. Miller, and from that out attended a grammar school, in company with his children. "I had been going to school about a year and a-half, when a gentleman came to board at our house. He had been a professor in an English college--how he came to lose this position, I cannot say. I believe it was on account of some religious views which he held; be that as it may, he left the old world in disgust, and came to reside in America. Most fortunate was it for me, that he came to Mr. Miller's to board. He did not take his meals with the family; he had one floor exclusively to himself, and had his meals served up to him in his own room. At first I hated this man; he was English, and, in consequence, as I supposed, my mortal enemy. I would neither go near him or carry a message   436      THE DALYS OF DALYSTO WN. for him; but my feelings soon changed towards him, and I jumped into the other extreme; loving him soon far more intensely and truly than I ever hated him, for it was more natural for me to love than to hate. I believe what first drew me towards him was, that I saw him, like myself, iso- lated and alone in the world. "Professor Wagstaff, who was very fond of children, re. marked that I would never go near him, like the others, and he made inquiries of Mr. Miller, relative to me. The latter informed him who I was, and the cause of my shunning him. After this, when he met me on the stairs, he would take me in his arms, calling me his little enemy, and carry me, by main force, to his room. But in a short time my greatest happiness was to be with him, and a new world seemed to open before me, as he taught and explained to me things I had never heard of before.; I have to thank this good man for an education, superior, perhaps, to that of most merchant captains, and even for that portion of it which relates to my profession, for being told by Mr. ]tiller that I wastintended for the navy, he instructed me in nav- igation, and few ever entered the service better instructed in its theory. Although the professor often spoke on relig- ion, I never knew what creed he professed,.but he was a good man and a practical Christian. 'Love,' he would say, 'is the basis of Christianity; because Mary loved much, much was forgiven her. Because Christ loved us, he died for us, nor has he left us ignorant of liow he would have that love returned. I was hungry and you gave me to eat, thirsty and you gave me to drink.' No doubt but it was the fact of my being an orphan, that made him take the inter- est he did in my instruction-although I had the vanity when a boy, to attribute it to other causes--thus putting into practice that which he preached. But I am getting prosy, Mr. Daly, and tire you." '"You interest me very much, captain. Pray proceed," replied Henry. "I thought my yarn would have been spun out long be- fore," said the captain. "s I will go on deck for a moment to see how things look, and when I return I will finish."On his return he said:   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      437 "The gale has nearly spent itself, so you will be able to have a good night's rest; but as I have commenced 'to tell you my past history, I will bring it to a conclusion now, if you are not too sleepy to listen." Henry begged him to proceed. "At fourteen," continued the captain, "I entered the American navy,but, after doing so, I had many opportu- nities of returning to my old home,--sometimes for a period of three months,--so that I was seventeen before I ceased to receive instructions from my friend the professor. In the war of 1812, I commanded a privateer. I hope I did my duty; at least I was successful in making some valuable prizes. At the close of the war I returned to Boston. Pro, fessor Wagstaff was dead, so was Mr. Miller and his wife. My share of prize money was quite a little capital, but I could not remain idle. After the war, several of those who had served through it, joined the merchant service, myself included. In this way I became acquainted with Mr. Bear- croft. My life heretofore was an active one; yet was there ever in my heart a void, a craving for that love I had never known. My success in life brought me no happiness, be- cause there was no one to share it with me; thus did the feelings of childhood accompany me into manhood. I went into danger, not recklessly, but with a calm indifference, for Ifelt there was none to mourn for me if I fell, if I triumphed, none to rejoice. You may say that I had my country; true, but love of country failed to fill up this inner void in my heart, and were it not that I was mindful of the lives of those under my command, and jealous of the honor of our flag, my indifference of life would have amounted to rashness. Judge you, then, how the heart of such a man entwined itself round and round two beings that at length came to his side,-a wife and child. Mine, mine,--mine alone!-to love me and be beloved by me. A life-longing was satisfied, and from the inner world, I looked upon the outer one, not with my old indifference, but with trembling happiness." The captain rose as he spoke, and going into the state- room, returned in a few moments with two miniatures. ' Here," he said in a voice so touchingly mournful in its   438      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. sadness, so different from his passionate outhurst a moment before, that it thrilled to the heart of his listeners, " here is the likeness of my boy and his mother. I told you that I lost them. This day, eight years, they sank before my eyes." He covered his face with his hands, and, when he with- drew them again, his eyes were wild and fixed, his counte- nance ghastly, as if he again saw before him the scene his words had recalled to memory. ct You may well ask me," he said, " how I live to tell this. I know not why it was, that when I jumped into an angry sea, eager to -engulf all within its reach, it refused to drown me."  He paused and then continued. "I cannot, Mr. Daly, go into details. Picture to yourself a storm-tossed sea, a wrecked bark; picture to yourself these in their great. est horror, yet, what are they! You cannot see as I do, amidst storm and sea, sinking vessel and drowning men, two loved faces upturned to yours, in imploring agony." He again paused for a long time, and, when he resumed, it was in a somewhat calmer voice. "Up to this, I had known little of Mr. Bearcroft, save in the way of business; but when this great calamity befel me, making me a wreck, incapable of doing aught, loathing life, and yet doomed to  live, I found in him a true friend. His house was my home, until, with untiring kindness and pious counsel, he won me from the gloom. into which I had fallen, not, indeed, to hap- piness, but resignation to the will of God. "You have my history. I am, as you see, a man alone in the world; and though I endeavor to fulfill my duties while in it, you cannot know how- galling is the task that finds me, day after day, year after year, toiling without an ob- ject-prosperous without a wish or reason to be so. Mr. Daly, I will be frank with you. It is in the power of you and Edward to lighten this burden.  I know the close friendship that binds you together; I know how loth either would be to part; yet I ask you to part for a time. Let Edward remain with me. Hear me out," he continued, as Henry was about to interrupt him, "you would say, we have joined our fortunes together and we may not part. But both of you are starting in life, and do you suppose that   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     439 circumstances will not arise to part you? You, Mr. Daly, are going to America; you will meet with one you love; new ties will surround you, and, though they would not weaken yotr friendship for Edward, still, they will lessen the necessity for his companionship. Nor would you, for his own sake, have him dependent on you. He, too, has a path to mark out for himself, and it is scarcely probable that both of yours will run side by side. No, my friends, it is but natural to suppose that you will, ere long, be sep- arated in the world. But I believe what I propose will make your separation but temporary, and leave Edward, at a future time, his own master, to go where and to whom he may please. If he remains with mhe, it will be as my adopt- ed son; as such I may not be able to leave him in affluence, but I can make him independent; besides, he will learn a profession which he has a natural talent for, and yet be in a position to give it up when he pleases. More, my dear friends; I will promise you, if after three years, it should be Edward's wish, I will give up the sea, and, seeking you out, Mr. Daly, I, and Imy adopted son, will join you. You, by that time an experienced farmer and mighty hunter, will initiate us into backwoodsman craft. If God should will it so, I will be no longer a shattered bark, drifting on life's sea, without compass or star to guide me; life will no longer be to me a blank; earth will still have for me an object, for my heart shall have something yet to'love." As he ceased speaking, he looked anxiously from Edward to Henry, waiting for them to reply. The former's arms rested on the table, and his face was bowed down upon them. Captain Thompson laid his hand upon the boy's head, but he moved not. Thus they sat in silence, while Henry debated in his own mind the proposal that had just been made. Ho could not but perceive the advantages it held out to Edward; but could he, on the boy's part, accept of it without seeming as if anxious to release himself from his promise to protect him? While he mused thus, his mind ran rapidly over the brief history with which the cap- tain had prefaced his proposal. It gave Henry a clue by which he could understand what otherwise would have ap- peared most singular.   "O      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. i"Of a truth," he thought to himself, " the child is father I to the man. Heere is the same feeling of isolation, the grasping for something to love, which first awoke in the heart of the orplhan child, yet accompanying the stricken man. It was with him in his early manhood, amidst the strife of battle. At length satisfied, death comes in one of of its most appalling shapes, and snatches from his sight those who had given him love for love; yet does this first strong passion survive, Torn, bleeding, and shattered, the tendrils of the heart still seek for an object round which they may entwine; and who shall say that a feeling so vital may not again give forth green leaves?" At length Henry said: "It is Edward, Captain Thoemp. son, that must decide between us. You offer him advan. tages which I cannot hold out. That you do so sincerely, that you would faithfully fulfil the trust you propose to take upon yourself; I have not the slightest doubt, but if Edward prefers sharing my fortunes, if, grateful, as I am sure he feels, for your offer. he hesitates to accept of it, I. who have given him my hand and faith, in brotherly love, will never' say go. Edward, speak." Tile boy raised his head and looked from one to the dther withh a troubled expression. Then e  said: "Do not think, Captain Thompson, that I am ungrateful for what you have just said; I am not, indeed, but no one on earth can part me from your side, Henry. You know not, Captain Thompn son, what my life was when he first met me; sometimes, as I sit here with both of you, I have looked back to it and almost doubted if I could be the same person. No, no, Ilot even you, Henry, can know what you have rescued me from. By your side I will remain, if you turn me not from you."' As he concluded, lie arose and went up to Captain Thomp- * son, who stood at the table with his hand resting upon it; "you are not vexed with me," he said, laying both his hands against the seaman's breast, and looking up into his face. "No, no, Edward, I am pleased with you," replied the captain. But yon are completely at sea as to what I have proposed; so I will not take what you have said as my final answer. Tell me, now, but for your affection for your friend here, would you remain with me?"   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      441 "Indeed, I would, Captain Thompson, and you know I speak the truth." "I believe you, my boy. No more of this to-night. I will detain you up no longer. It is my watch on deck. Good night, Mr. Daly, good night, Edward," and the captain left the cabin. Captain Thompson had wisely forborne pressing his pro- posal on either Henry or Edward, judging that the more time they had to consider it, the plainer would its advan- tages appear; he had scarcely expected that they would accede to it when first proposed to them. If you have a doubtful case, and if the judge hesitates, press him; but if it be a good one, why then give him his own time to consider on it. Before Henry Daly closed his eyes that night, he had weighed well Captain Thompson's, offer, and the result was that he saw he would be doing an actual injustice to Ed- ward, if he allowed any false delicacy on his part, lest his motives might be misunderstood, to interfere with the boy's prospects. "It is very trued' he thought, " circumstances may arise to separate us, and how can I hope that any such would have advantages for Edward equal to those which are now offered." Nor did the slightest doubt of the captain's good faith, for a moment disturb Henry. He was young enough still to have faith in men; fortunately, in this instance, his con- fidence was not misplaced.  As his mind was busy with such thoughts, he tossed restlessly in his berth, and per- ceiving that Edward was also awake, he said: "Why don't you sleep, Edward '" "Why don't you, Henry?" was the reply. "I have been thinking of poor Captain Thompson's story.': "So have I, Henry." "And of his offer to you, Edward." "Oh, was it not very good of him." "I tliink, Edward, you ought to accept of it." Edward was so astonished that he sat bolt upright in his berth. "And leave you, Henry?" he said, half reproachfully. \ .  f or            *   "2      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Only for a time, Edward. I will miss you indeed; but I must not be selfish. This is an offer, which will make you an independent man. Captain Thompson promises too, after three years, if you wish it, to quit the sea and come to reside wherever I may have settled down. Three years! Why they are nothing; and yet you will be quite grown up by that time. If you accept the captain's offer, I must, cer. tainly be on the look-out to have a wife as well as a farm ready for you by the time you come to join me."' These words, said in jest, decided Edward in his choice.. He jumped out of his berth and stood at the foot of Henry's. "I will stay with Captain Thompson," he said, " shall ,I dress, and g) on deck to tell him so?" Henry was a little startled at this sudden resolve. "Edward, " he said, taking the boy's hand, " surely you do not misjudge me.?" "How so?." said the boy. "You do not suppose that anything but your own wel. fare would let me part with you." ( No, indeed, Henry, such an idea never entered into my, mind." "Then you would have accepted his offer in the first in. stance if vou thought it would be agreeable to me?" "No, Henry, that is not it either; but I see now that I ought to accept of it. It will give me a profession, malie me independent, as you say, and" "And what, Edward?" said Henry, seeing that he hes. itated. ' And I love-the sea," he answered, his favorite ele. ment coming most opportunely to drown the name of Emily, which had risen to his lips. "Well," said Henry, "we will speak of this more fully in the morning. We must do nothing rashy. Go to bed, Edward; there is not much fear, I should think, of the cap- tain's leaving home before you see him. And now, good night, let us see what our dreams will bring us." While this conversation was going on between the two friends, Captain Thompson was pacing the quarterdeck, over their heads; his mind at one time filled with the sad tale he had just been telling them; then again, planning how best to renew his proposal.   " I have set my heart," he thought " on having this boy, on getting him to love me. His companionship and affec- tion would do much to dispel this weary gloom which ever hangs around me." How great then was his satisfaction on meeting his pas- sengers at breakfast, the - following morning, to hear Henry Daly say: "Captain, I believe you have nearly won Edward from me." Captain Thompson looked at the boy, who blushed and smiled. "Speak, Edward," he said, laying his hand on the other's shoulder; " tell me this is so." "I will remain with you, captain," replied Edward. "Then come to my heart, my son," exclaimed the captain, embracing him, "for such you shall be from henceforth. I thank you, Mr. Daly, for the trust you coufide to me, but do not fear, I will keep my promise, and restore him to you. 1Oh, 1my dear friends, you have made me happy;' for it is sweet to think that old age will not find me in a desolate. home, and that when I pass away, there will be some one. to mourn for me." Right cheerily passed the remainder of that day. Cap. tain Thompson asserted that his vessel partook of his new found happiness, and "walked the waters like a thing of life." The others interested in the arrangement just made, although grieved to part, were yet too young and full of hope to be cast down. As for Edward, a fairy land opened to his view, and the loveliest fairy that moonlight ever kissed, stood upon the shore. Dream on, fond boy, while you may, the golden dream of youth! Should it come to pass, yet will the reality fail to realize the mystic beauty of the ideal. Seated on one of the yards, Edward gave fiee scope to his imag ination, ancd the waves that sparkled ini the sunlight were not brighter or more buoyant than his hopes. He was roused from his day dreams by the captain's hail, and, look- ing down, he saw him and Henry on the quarterdeck.. Sliding down, he quickly joined them. "Well, Edwardl," said the captain, "have you been look- ing out for land, that you remained so long aloft? You 29   "4      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.  [ shall soon see it, I hope. If the wind keeps steady from the point it is at present, we will reach New York within ten days. But I am going to give Mr. Daly a rough chart of our future course, and I want to see how you like it. I do not like, much, Mr. Daly, this passenger trade; and I am happy to say that, on our return to Liverpool, the James Monroe will be fitted up for a voyage to India. If it is prosperous, I ex. pect we will be back in about ten months--just in time to bring over Miss Daly. What say you, will you intrust her to Edward and myself?" "Most willingly would I do so," replied Henry, " but that I have promised to return for her myself." "All the better," said the captain. L"So if my vessel should be leaving Liverpool for New York, about the time you will be returning, I shall expect the good fortune of having both of you on board." "The good fortune will be all on our side, captain," re- plied Henry. I expect Edward, here, will write to me as often as possible, and I will endeavor to time my move- ments so that I will reach England about the time of your return.11. Edward rubbed his hands in evident delight; so far the arrangements were most satisfactory to him. "When we return to England," continued the captain, "I will make one trip to New York, then to the West Indies, as I intend trading between there and Liverpool for some time. I speak thus confidently because I have a share in this vessel, and Mr. Bearcroft never interferes in my plans. Now, if fortune smiles upon me, I expect, in three years at firthest, to have my affiirs and connection with the sea so arrangced that I may retire from the service; but, in the meantime, I hope Edward will have more than one oppor- tunity of going to see you, wherever you may be located., And that reminds me, Edward, you can, on our arrival in Liverpool, go see you friends in Ireland." Edward jumped with delight. "Oh, Henry," he said '" that would be delightful. It would give them such happiness to hear about you and the voyage." "I have been thinking of this, before, Edward," replied his friend, , and it is better you should not go to Ireland."   THE DALYS Of DALYSTOWN.     v445 The boy's countenance fell. "Why so?" asked the captain. "His uncle might hear of his return and endeavor to get possession of him," replied Henry. "Of course he could not detain him legally, but he is a bad man, and there is no knowing what his malignity might prompt him to do." 6"You are right," said the captain, " such a fellow as you have described him to be, would not hesitate to bring some false charge against him. Better not to trust him, Edward." We never lose, altogether, a secret dread of the tyrant of our youth, so Edward willingly acquiesced in the prudence of remaining beyond his uncle's reach. Anrd then he had the glorious hope of bringing out Emily Daly, in the James Monroe, to compensate him for the disappointment of not being able to visit Ireland on his return to Liverpool. Within a fortnight after the above conversation, Edward, one morning, came rushing into Henry's state-room. "Get up, Henry," he exclaimed, in breathless tones; " get up, and come on deck." , What's the matter? said Henry, "is the ship on fire?' "No, no," replied the other, laughing. "But get up, and you'll see some one you did not see before." '"Our next door neighbor, Smith. Has he called upon us, Edward?" "Oh, stupid! The pilot is on board." "The pilot!" exclaimed Henry, springing out of his berth, "you don't say so, Edward. When did he arrive?" "Some time this morning," replied the boy. "Hand me that coat, Edward, I must go take a look at him. I can make my toilet afterwards. What is he like, Edward? Does he smell of the land-has he an olive branch in his bill?" "He smells very much of tar," replied Edward, " and he has a plug of tobacco in his mouth." When they reached the deck, they saw the stranger stand. ing near the wheel house. "He certainly was not on board yesterday," said Henry, "but how did he come, I can see neither land or boat?" "Come aft here," replied Edward, " and I will show you." He did so, and the boy pointed out a little cockle-shell of a boat, towing astern.   "6      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "You don't mean to say he came in that?" asked Henry. He certainly did," answered Edward, laughing, " but only from the pilot boat." "And where is the pilot boat?" asked Henry, looking around. it She left when the pilot boarded us." "It is all very mysterious," said Henry," I have half a mind to go over and feel this man, perhaps he is but a myth after all.' As Captain Thompson came towards them, he heard Hen- ry's last remark. sc Oi, take my word for it, Mr. Daly," he said, laughing, hle is flesh and blood, and comes from Yankee land. I congratulate you, my friends, on your voyage having nearly terminated." "I have to thank you, Captain Thompson," replied Henry, for having inade it far more agreeable than I could have expected it to be." The pilot on board! What cheering words are these to weary passengers. How joyfully mothers awake their little ones and tell them, between tears aitd laughter, as they hug them in their arms, " that the pilot is on board." How they hurry with them on deck, where the juveniles are rather disappointed at seeing only a man, their excited imn aginations having led them to suppose, at least, a full grown monkey. How every one is excited and talking, and in good humor. How unselfish the selfish become; offer- ing, with prodigal generosity, to bestow that which they refused to lend on yesterday. What a frightful reaction takes place when a bilious-faced passenger croaks out, "that he has no doubt but that they will be detained in quarantine at least a week.' What an elevated position another passenger assumes, when he asserts, " that he is a free-born citizen of the United States, and bound to land anyhow." How all smnile on the good-humored passenger, who asserts positively,-because he knows nothing what- ever about it,-" that vessels never remain in quarantine unless there is sickness on board." "None of us are sick, thank God," says the good-humored passenger.   THE DALY$ OF DALYSTO 0WN.    "No, no," exclaims every one but the bilious man, who shakeshs hihead.             C4uls "s All w vell, continues the good-humored man, bunless our bilious friend here, but I am willing to swear that he waas a bilious baby." Whereupon all the passengers laugh, so that they quite regain their spirits, to the great disgust of the bilious pas- 1 senger, who finding no one from henceforth willing to lis- ten to him, surreptitiously corners a nervous female, and imn presses his doubts and fears so strongly upon her, that he has the satisfaction of seeing her give way to tears, which makes him feel almost comfortable. How wonderful they all seem to think it that the pilot should come on board without any of them seeing him do so. A little boy endeavors to account for this by saying, "1Perhaps it was because they wereall asleep." But this in no way clears up the mystery, his mother being the only person on board who thinks his remark worthy of the slight. est notice. How they never tire of gazing upon this messenger from the land,-and this fascination is felt by the most enlight- ened. It is not so much because he has come to bring them safely into port, or that his presence assures them of their near approach to shore, as that they recognize in him the first link joining them again to that world from which they have been separated for ai time. Despite of the bilious man's prophecy, they were not de- tained at quarantine, and that night Henry Daly and Ed- ward Vaughlan slept, for the first time, on American soil.   9:d      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER XXXT. Glorious America!-the land of Washington, whose noble brows were never sullied with a kingly crown, but encircled with the bright ethereal diadem of an emancipated people's everlasting -love! Glorious America, where the spirit of republicanism has at length found a land worthy of her temple, a people wor- thy of her creed! Across the blue waves of the Atlantic, from beyond where the fairy islands of the Pacific sleep on their coral beds, they come, the down-trodden children of earth, to this beautiful temple of freedom! Weary and drooping, they enter, and present their offer. ings,-crushed hearts, yearning for freedom. Lo! the flame burns brightly on the altar, the offering is accepted, and the pilgrim arises, free, erect, regenerated and disenthralled. How often has republicanism visited the earth, to be driven forth again by the crimes and follies of mankind; by the corruption of the priests of the sanctuary! Spirit of freedom, let not this be so here! Give this land brave, faithful husbandmen, to guard well from the weeds of corruption and disunion, the seed which their fathers planted in tears and blood. Teach them that though mo. narchal institutions may live amidst venality and ignorance, the virtue and enlightenment of its citizens are the life- breath of a republic. A great problem is being solved here: whether man is capable of self-government, or, like the hound, requires the lash of the huntsman to keep him in order. Now, for the first time in the history of the world, has republicanism got a fair trial. Here is no barbarous people, led to-day, perchance, by the eloquence or wisdom of one man, to form a certain form of government, yet willing, on the morrow, to abandon it, and lay themselves at the feet of some mili- tary despot who shall dazzle them with glory. Here is no   THE DALY X U' MAJL xo'.'uV V    v old nation rising in sudden fury and trampling under foot the tyranny which has been crushing them; yet, accus- tomed only to the darkness of their dungeons they fail to appreciate the light of freedom when it breaks upon them. By it they only see their hated tyrants, and, getting drunk with blood, they fall helplessly to the ground, passive vic- tims, again to be manacled by a despotism greater than that from which they had just freed themselves. No; here is a nation, young, vigorous and intellectual, with the teaching of the past and the lights of the present to guide it. Rocked in the cradle of freedom, it has grown up side by side with its youthful institutions. It was but yesterday that the sinews of the strong man were imper- ceptible threads in the limbs of the child; as quickly has the power and beauty of those institutions developed them- selves around him. Thus all understand and appreciate the form of government under which they live, they recognize it as emanating from themselves and reflecting back an un- crowned sovereignty to their brows. No -external causes can shake the stability of the republic. It rests upon- no party platform. Its pillars are the homesteads of the peo- ple. While these remain pure and virtuous the republic lives; should they become corrupt, it matters not what party cry hurls the noble edifice to ruin. But such thoughts as these were, for the present, foreign to the mind of Henry Daly. One idea alone filled his whole being. He had reached the land where dwelt Rose O'Don- nell; to find her out, to delay not, in this task of love, until it was successful, engrossed his whole mind. Captain Thompson had remained on board his vessel the first night she was in port, but he was, early on the follow- ing morning, at the hotel Henry had gone to. They lost no time in calling at the office connected with the vessel in which Mr. Kirwan had taken passage, but they failed to procure any ilformation as to that gentleman's route subse- quent to his landing in this country. Sadly disappointed, Henry turned away, but Captain Thompson endeavored to cheer hinm as they walked along. "You must make up your mind," he said, "to meet with a little difficulty in your search, now that we have failed to   450      THE DALYTS O DALYSTOWN. procure any information from those people. However there is not the shadow of a doubt but that you will be ul- timately successful." "What do you advise now, captain?" aslked HLenry. 'Yo mnust advertise and I wil write to ir. ietarcroft by the next mail, to make all possible inquiries in Liver- pool." "I supposoe I must do as you say," replied Henry; 14but you cannot think how repugnant to me is the idea of ad- vertising.,' His friend sniled. "What a sensitive animal a man in love is, to be sure," he said. Why, Mr. Daly; the adver- tisement can be so worded that no one will perceive the presence of the little god. Your inquiry will be for Mr. Kirwan. No one will suppose you to be in love with him." Henry smiled. "As for that," he said ,' I think it better that my name should not appear at all. God kno^s what foolish idea Rose meight get into her head -not knowing under what circumstances I have come to this country-  should she know that I was here in search of her." "You are quite right. Word your advertisement as you- think best, and we will leave it at the different newspaper offices for -insertion. Do not forget to add a request to have it copied into the western papers-" "When do you think I may hope to receive information through this channel?" "Perhaps in a few weeks; perhaps not for three or four months." "Three or four months!" exclaimed Henry. "Yes, replied Captain Tlonpson. Bu if you do not hear for six months, you are not to despair or neglect to re- new the advertisement from time to time. News travels slowly through those distant regions, known as 'the west.'- We Yankees, Mr. Daly, think that there axe no limits to the west, and you will be much of the same opinion when you travel through a portion of it." "You frighten me, captain." "What! frighten a  lover, young, ardent, brave, and six feet high! Poh, if there are no limits to the west, neither should there be to the energy and resources of such a one, in such a cause."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      451 "But you would not have me to remain here, in New York, for four months, waiting for news, ' said Henry. "Surely not," replied Captain Thompson. "If news arlves, it can be forwarded after you; but yoA will remain for a  couple of weeks, Mr. Daly, until Edward and myself get under wav. It would not do for you to lave the poor fel- low too suddenly." "No," said Henry C "I will remain until you sail." "That is right," said the captain; "I see you are not as selfish as lovers generally are, and I hope you will be re- warded by our being able to hunt up information for you before we leave." Accordingly, Henry remained a fortnight in New York, during which time no tidings of her he sought for reached him. To remain longer inactive was impossible. Captain Thompson, too, was by this time ready to go to sea, so Henry prepared to set out for the west. He had been introduced to a gentleman with whom he could correspond, so that in the event of an answer to his advertisement arriving, he would be informed of it. This gentleman also promised to forward any letters that might arrive from Mr. Bearcroft. It mnay well be supposed that, as the time for separation drew nigh, Edward Vaughan was much cast down at the idea of parting with one whom he had such good reason to love; however, Captain Thompson kept both his young friends pretty busy, in bringing them round to view the elephant. How the animal looked, or what impression this, his first view of Almerican life, made on Henry's mind, he has not recorded. Perhaps he thought that one could not well judge a people in a fortnight's residence among them. Quite a number of distinguished travelers have, since then, ignored this old fashioned idea, and one is at a loss which to admire most, the grasp of these gentlemen's imag- inations, or the audacity of their impudence. A passing glance at a rowdy in a bar-room, a few short naps in railway cars and steamboats, and the materials are gathered for graphic descriptions of the manners, hab- its, tastes, domestic relations, character, future transmogri- fication and spiflication of the American people; all ex- quisite in their way, and having but one defect, a total want   452      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. of truth. As I am on the subject of "traveled fools," I must award the cap and bells to an old gentleman of the name of Sir Francis Head, who published, some years ago, his travels in Ireland (a book full of profound knowl. edge and research, and used as a text book by British statesmen), where he actually spent ten days, half of which time he was asleep and the other half locked up in a first- class railway carriage. I suppose the old gentleman is long since dead; if so, I trust he has got a better view of heaven than he ever did of Ireland. To be sure Sir Francis was an Englishman, and the English have always found it easy " to do Ireland." The last evening that Henry and Edward passed together in New York was a very sad one to both. Dim as the future is to us all, it was doubly so to them now. Edward's in. tended voyage to India, Henry's undefined wanderings, filled their minds with doubts and disappointments. As they were about to part for the night, Edward said: "I would, Henry, that I had not consented to leave you. I am sure I might have been some assistance to you." "We must not think of this now, E(dward,7 replied his friend. "Keep up a good heart, and we shall soon meet again, to talk pleasantly over our different adventures." "But you will be so lonely, Henry; no one near you that you care for or that cares for you." "Well, Edward, I am no baby; besides, you infidel, dare you doubt that I shall soon be near one I love?" "Ah! that is true; then you will not miss me." Henry threw his arms around him as he said: "I will miss you, Edward, as I would a dear brother. But we shall meet under happier auspices than those we now part in. Think how quickly a year passes! Well, in a year, my boy, we will, God willing, be returning to this country together, bearing Emily along with us." The boy's face brightened, for with Emily's name there ever came to his young heart courage and hope. The next morning they went on board the James Monroe. Captain Thompson stood by the companion ladder. 1' Welcome," he said, taking a hand of each. (, Mr. Daly, I trust to restore Edward, at no distant day, to the society   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      VV of one whose friendship he may well dwell upon with pride; and I call heaven to witness that I will be faithful to the trust: I now take upon myself." Henry made some suitable reply, but seeing how much overcome Edward was, both gentlemen hurried with hi m to the cabin. Once there, he gave full vent to his grief, and Henry, deeply moved, bent over him, as he lay sobbing on the sofa on which he had thrown himself. "Edward, dear Edward," said Henry, "good-bye. Keep up a brave heart, we shall soon meet again. Write to Doc- tor Kelly or to Emily, when you re sh iLiverpool, and write to me as often as you have opportunity to d,. so. And now, good-bye, again, my dear, dear Edward." As he spoke he kissed the boy's wet cheek, pressed some- thing into his hand, and hurried from the cabin, followed by Captain Thompson. Henry remained on board but to bid the latter good-bye, and had left the vessel before Edward thought of looking at his parting gift; but now, as he did so, oh! joy of joys . he saw it was a miniature likeness of Emily Daly. He had risen for the purpose of going on deck, thinking that Henry had not as yet returned to shore; but now, not for worlds would he meet him. He sat down again, his face glowing, his mind confused with a strange mixture of bash- fulness, fear and happiness. Could Henry, he thought, have guessed his secret? Would he return to the cabin be- fore quitting the vessel . If he did, how could he look at him, or what should he say to him? How he longed now to feel the vessel under way. Thus the boy-lover sat for more than an hour, gazing on that fair, young face, which had become the day-dream of his life; and so absorbed did he become in ,love's young dream," that the vesselhad been some time under way be- fore he was aware of the fact. At length he was aroused by the sound of steps approaching, and had but time to hide the miniature in his bosom, when the captain entered; "We are going down the river," he said; "cheer up, my boy, and come on deck. I do not wish to have you alone here, and I cannot remain with you." "I will go on deck at once; captain," replied Edward, in   454      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. a cheerful voice. "I hope you will, as soon as possible give me some post where I can make myself useful." The captain was delighted to see him so much himself. "You are a sailor, every inch of you," he said, " and leave care on the shore when the anchor is weighed. I protnise you, when we get into blue water you shall have a berth." From this time forward Edward Vaughan labored with an untiring zeal to acquire a knowledge of his'new profession for there was a talisman ever resting near his heart, that whispered, forward!--forward!-while each day he became dearer to his adopted father. CHAPTER XXXII. It had occurred to Henry Daly within the last few days that he heard Rose O'Donnell say that Mr. Kirwan had a brother settled in Western Canada. So vague and doubt- ful was his recollection on this point, that he did not even mention the circumstance to Captain Thompson or Edward. However, as Canada was about the best roufe he could take to the Western States, he resolved to go there. He had been strongly advised, by persons of experience in such matters, to settle in Michigan--then a territory. But before he could fix upon any particular place for his future home, he should discover Rose's retreat. Without her, Eden itself would be a wilderness to him; with her, the wilderness an Eden. He was but two-and-twenty, and in love 1' Traveling in America, thirty years ago, was a very differ- ent thing from what it is at the present day. There were no floating palaces on its lakes and rivers, and the iron war   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      455 horse of civilization had not as yet gone rushing, panting, throbbing and conquering, for thousands of miles through the primeval forests. Most of Henry's journey was performed in a kind of wagon, or stage, which had nothing to recommend it but the strength and endurance with which it bore frightful plunges into yawning chasms, and jerking leaps over black- ened stumps, as it creaked and jostled over what the driver, would insist upon calling a road. And if one of this Jehu's horses fell, or the stage lay half tipped over in a deep rut, or became locked against a stump, his sovereign remedy for such mishap was, " git up!-git up!"--and a very philosoph- ical style of driving I take this to be. Let's see, now; our hopes are the horses which draw us on, if they fail or fall, get up-get up! The means at our disposal are our stage; if it gets stuck in a rut of misfortune, or locked against a black stump of adversity, why-get up! But above all, ye crushed ones of the earth, you giant Gullivers lying asleep, while a few miserable Lillputians tie your limbs-get up!- get up!  At length Henry stood by the Falls of Niagara, a descrip- tion of which has so often been attempted. But pencil has never yet caught the misty beauty that hangs around it spray or described the crashing thunder of its leap. Thus might Lucifer and his rebel legions have been hurled from heaven. "Could enemies meet here," thought Henry, " and part in hate; or would not a feeling of weakness, make them extend their hands to each other, for support 2" As he thus mused a feeling of despondency stole over him. He was but on the threshold of his search, and already a seemingly boundless forest surrounded him. To his eyes, accustomed to an extensive landscape, the blocking up of the forest was confusing. As he penetrated into Canada, he had no longer boats -or stages to travel by. Fortunately he had left his luggage in New York and carried with him but a light valise ; he therefore determined to continue his journey on foot, and procured a guide, at the falls, to accom- pany him. The further he proceeded into Canada the less became his dependence on himself to accomplish the task he was engaged in. The few settlements he came to seemed   456      THE DALYS O? DALYSTOWN. but little spots of civilization, scarcely rescued from the forest around; isolated, without any link to connect them with the world beyond. How he had reached them was a mystery to him, and he thought with a sinking heart, how many more such might be scattered, widely apart, that he could never hope to reach. -But, above all, how dreary and desolate seemed to him the isolated shanty he now and then arrived at. With what feelings of astonishment he gazed upon the rough, happy face of its occupant. How had this man come here, how lived before he- had cultivated this patch of clearing around his shanty? How cooly he talks of having " his eighty acres cleared up one of these days." In truth, such an undertaking, for one man, appeared to Henry like one's attempting to shovel away a mountain. One thing now was perfectly clear to him, and it struck upon his heart likle a funeral knell, without any clue as to where the Kirwan family had settled, it was almost hopeless for him to expect to discover them by a personal search. "Suppose", he said to himself, " that I was sure they were in Canada, still, how difficult would be the task to find them out; but it is more than probable it is to some one of the western states or territories that they have gone; in either case the chance of my finding them seems almost hopeless." He also lost hope in his advertisement being of any use, when he found that the settlers in the interior looked upon a newspaper six months old as of late date, and that those published in the States had no circulation whatever in Canada. In fact his best hope now was that Mr. Bearcroft would be able to procure information in England. As his dejection increased, so did the difficulties that beset him seem to augment. Bitterly, at times, did he, in his own mind upbraid Rose for her cruel desertion of him. "What right," he would ask himself, " had she to cut off, thus, all intercourse with those who loved her, and with whom she had passed her life ;" but as he read, for the hundredth time, her farewell letter, and marked how blistered it was with tears, wrung from her loving henrt, how, with a mar- tyr's firmness, she counseled him to forget her, to forget himself, and be to his father a stay and happiness, he turned his accusations against himself for censuring one so pure, so good and so loving.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      457 Then would come thoughts of his father, of the ruin that had come upon their home, of his sister, for the first time a guest in another's house with no home to return to. This latter thought roused him from the despondency which was weighing him down, and made him resolve to shape his course for Michigan. His chance of meeting with Rose, as far as he could judge, was as likely there as elsewhere. I Troubled, anxious, and desponding as he had become, he could not, nevertheless, help being interested with the beauty and grandeur of the scenery through which he was passing. There can scarcely be anything more lovely than an American forest, in the fall. From the broad, scarlet leaf of the stunted shumac, to the dark green of the tow- ering pine, an endless variety of colors and shades meet the eye, so bright and vivid, that the sun's rays, falling up- on them, scarcely add to their brilliancy. Nor is the ruin wanting, to heighten the effect of the pic- turesque--not the crumbling wall, the work of hands, more perishable than that which they have formed,--but one of nature's ruins. The giant pine has fallen over the mound which narks the Indian's grave. Perchance five centuries have passed since it first shot up from the fresh clay which covered the red warrior, when he lay down to sleep with his quiver of arrows and unstrung bow beside him. Let the minil go back to the time when its tiny branches rested so weakly on the earth that the resistance of a pebble would hasve altered their direction; follow it then, il its silent growth, until those same branches have grrown into gi- ant limbs. casting dark shadows over the lowly, forgotten grave, and then gaze upon the huge, decaying trunk, from which life, and branch, and limb, have long since passed away. How many myriads of human beings have flitted from the ,cradle to the grave, while these mysteries were enacting in the silent forest! yet, we are told that, in Amer- ica, there is naught to remind one of the past. Not, per haps, of particular scenes in the past. Here is no Bridge of Sighs, no Traitor's Gate, no frowning gibbet. When you pass the moldering arch that once gave entrance to the crowded cemetery, while the hum of thelbusy to wn is heard in the distance,-- a sense of mortality'crushes the heart.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. As you gaze upon the showy, costly, lying monuments around, the empty vanity of the world becomes present to the mind; but here, amidst the magnificence and solemn silence of the forest, canopied by a sky as cloudless as the dome of heaven, standing beside this ancient grave, no tin. seled lie recorded over it, but a mighty and befitting em- blem of mortality resting upon it, the mind, attuned to the harmony around, soars from the past to the future, and, with a living hope of immortality, we gaze upon these records of decay. Ten days had now elapsed since Henry Daly had com- menced to travel on foot, when at the close of a warm day he found himself in front of a deserted shanty. When last his guide passed this way it was occupied, and he had calculated on their passing the night there. It was a disappointment to Henry to find it deserted now, for from the time of his leaving one settlement to his reach- ing another, a vague hope of hearing some tidings of the lost one always filled his mind. This feeling was more in- tense during this day's journey than usual, for on the pre- vious night he had dreamed that he was walking through the woods, when suddenly the scene changed into a smil- ing, extensive landscape, in the center of which stood a cottage; Rose O'Donnell stood at the door and beckoned to him to advance. The imaginary leap he gave forward awoke him and dispelled the vision, still the memory of it haunted him during the whole of the next day's journey. The guide now proposed that they should light a fire, cook some provisions which they carried with them, and remain in the shanty for the night. Henry inquired how far they were from the next settle- ment, and the man replied, " that it was all of ten miles." "It's pretty considerable of a place," he added, "' and if you wish we can push on to it, though it will be kinder late when we get there." "That makes little matter," replied Henry,' one scarcely misses the light of the sun, such moonlight nights as we have now." "Oh, light enough," replied the guide, "but you see, captain, folks that are chopping in the woods all day, go to bed kinder early and don't like much to be wakened up."   r   459'   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.   "Is there no tavern, then, in the place you speak of?" "No; though quite an old settlement, there is no village, but about half a dozen homesteads, some distance apart, in any of which we can put up for the night." "Let us push on, then," said Henry. "Softly, captain," replied the guide; " there ain't no man- ner of use in traveling on a hungry stomach. Just wait un- til I start a fire to boil some water; we'll be all the better after a little supper. Take that camp-kettle, will you, and fetch a little water, while I am starting the fire. There's the trail to the well, right before you; you'll find it a few rods off." Henry took up the kettle and set off as directed. On his return he found the fire already blazing, and, after a hasty supper, cooked with all the skill of a voyageur, they re- sumed their journey. When the sun went down, the moon arose in full brillian- cy; now hidden by the thick foliage, then following and peeping down upon them through lofty trees, and anon, as: they came to an opening, flooding the trail with a silvery light. After walking for two hours or more, they came on spots where the woodman's axe had been busy, for cords of wood lay piled along the trail. The blackened stumps and girdled trees, with their long, withered arms extended, gave. to some of those clearings, especially when viewed by moon- light, a dreary, desolate look. Passing on, they soon cleared the forest and came to cul- tivated fields, railed in, in a zigzag fashion, and soon the cheerful challenge of the watch-dog greeted their approach. to the homes of the settlers. "I hope we shall find some house, where the family have not as yet retired to rest," said Henry. "I guess, captain," replied the guide, "we had better make for the nearest one; the houses here are a good bit apart, but look, captain, we are in luck; I saw a light this- moment crossing one of the windows of this house a little to our left." "Youi eyes are better than mine,'7 replied Henry, " for I can neither see house nor light." "I guess the difference is, squire, that I know the loca- 30  THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. tion and where to look for it. Just look a little here to the left. Do you see the light now; it is steady?" "Yes," said Henry, "we are quite close to the house." "All the better," answered the guide, " but I don't know the folks that live there, so I'll leave the talking to you. Go ahead, colonel, or we'll have the candle out, and if once they get to snoring the busting of a cannon wouldn't awake them." Thus admonished, Henry advanced to the house and knocked at the door which presently opened to his sum- mons. The glare of a candle dazzled Henry's eyes and prevented him from seeing distinctly the form of the person who stood in the doorway, but as he commenced to apologise for his instrusion, the light was suddenly dashed to the ground, a woman's arms were flung around his neck, and the - faith- ful, loving heart of Rose O'Donnell beat against his own. Her sudden exclamation of joy, as she recognized Henry, brought all the family into the hall, when they were not a little surprised to find Rose in the arms of a stranger. Mrs. Kirwan, forgetting, for the moment, where she was, was on the point of screaming: police! police! but Rose reassured her by exclaiming, as she still clung to her lover, "oh! aunt, this is Mr. Henry Daly." Then, blushing, she disengaged herself from the arms yet loth to part with her. That same night, before retiring to rest, while the moon- beams trembled through the vine leaves that o'ershadowed the porch in which they sat, Henry told to Rose all that had occurred since she left him-how busy death and ruin had been among them, how, nameless and homeless, he had sollght her out; and, as hle spoke, she laid her head uponhis breast, and her newly-born hopes were baptized in tears. "And now, Rose," he concluded, " now that I have found you, oh never more shall we part, in life. Tell me, dearest, that this is so." She raised her eyes to his. The strong love of her heart shone through glistening tears, and, with a long, burning kiss, he claimed her as his own.   CHAPTER XXXTTT. There is in lower Michigan a narrow tract of land, lying between two tiny lakes. You will not find it mentioned in any tourist's guide-book or traveler's journal. It has no bold or marked features to arrest attention, and its calm, peaceful beauty steals to the heart rather than engages the eye. He whose footsteps have lingered here is loth to turn them again to the world he seems to have escaped from. So noiseless are the waves that ripple over the smooth sands that the solitary tap of the woodpecker can be heard from shore to shore. From both lakes the ground rises in a gentle ascent, form- ing, in the centre of the wood which lies between them, a slightly elevated ridge, from which, through the trees, one catches glimpses of the placid waters on either side; but, before you reach this ridge, you cross two or three mossy dells which seem to have been the bed of a river, which at one time connected the two lakes; so geologists would say. To me, they have ever been the green-carpeted ballrooms of the fairies. Itis useless to tell me that there are no fai- ries in America,-that the go-ahead Yankee spirit is inimi- cal to these tiny vagrants. Stretched, with closed eyes, in one of those grassy dells, on a dreamy summers evening, the little people have danced around me; the eolian mu- sic to which they tripped, the gentle wind, playing through. the foliage, whilst, over my head, the aspen shook its airy castanets, and the woodpecker beat time upon his hollow drum. Almost all the varieties of trees which a large forest af- fords, are found here. The lordly oak towers over the glow- ing shumac, the hardy hickory looks down upon the grace- ful tamnarac growing in the ravine below, the gloomy pine gives effect to the delicate beauty of the maple, whose leaves the hot kisses of the summer sun have dyed in   "2      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. blushes, and in the early autumn viewed from the ridge I have mentioned, those silvery lakes are seen through a tangled web of countless hues of unimaginable beauty. In the centre of the lake which lies to the east, and not more than a quarter of a mile from the shore, rises an island perfectly round, containing about forty acrej. Let your boat grate lightly as its prow touches the shore; tread its green sward with thoughtful steps, for though neither priest or incense have blessed it, it is holy ground-the burial place of a race that once peopled the woods around. On those lakes, when the war paint was washed from his face, the red warrior fished in his bark canoe, or, as the evening closed around, he lay motionless in the thick foliage, beside the coiled snake, waiting the approach of the ant- lered deer, that were wont, at sunset, to come bounding from the forest to the lake shore, to slake their thirst in its lim- pid waters. But the red man has passed away from a spot that must have been very pleasant to his eyes, and those island graves are all that witness to his former presence. In this locality, before the snows of winter had rested on the earth, Henry Daly purchased a tract of land. The per- son from whom he bought it, had already cleared a few acres around a log house which he had erected on the land. Mr. Kirwan pressed Henry to remain in Canada during the winter, but the latter preferred, now that his mind was at ease, to enter at once upon his new life, and to be doing something during the winter, in preparing a home for Rose and Emily. His nearest neighbor-about two miles dis- tant-was a sturdy Scotch highlander, .of the name of Mac- Gregor, whose family consisted of his wife, a grown up daughter, and two sons. "They were but wee bit bairns " their father said, " when they left their glen ;" yet, isolated from society, their dialect had remained broad Scotch. But, in everything else, the young men were thorough American woodsmen; ever ready with an expedient to meet a present want, their keen axes alone supplying the place of a whole chest full of carpen- ter's tools. It was fortunate for Henry, at the commencement, to have such neighbors; they had already cleared as much   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      46 3 land as they could cultivate, so he engaged the two broth- ers to work for him during the winter; and after the site of a new house was fixed upon, late and early the sound of the axe rang out upon the keen frosty air, and the crash of fall- ing timber resounded through the forest. By the time spring approached, the extent of ground which had been partially cleared astonished Henry. Be- sides doing this, the MacGregors had split several thousand rails for fencing, and hewed out frames for a house and barn ; then came a great hauling and piling of the fallen timber, and burning of the underbrush. In all these labors, Henry endeavored to bear a part; awkwardly enough, it must be confessed, and to the no small amusement of his fellow laborers. Thus, for instance, the first tree which he attempted to fell, he chopped all round, and when it commenced to sway from side to side, he stood out from it, not knowing which direction it would take in falling. He was not long left in doubt, for down it came with a crash. He jumped to one side, but not in time to save himself from a blow from one of its branches, which stretched him on the ground; but as for burning the underbrush, he gave it up after the first day's trial. He had, it seems, a happy knack of getting right in the way of the smoke and blaze, and he returned in the evening with his hands blistered, his clothes torn, his throat parched and his features a tawny black. How- ever, he bore all his mishaps in good humor, and when spring was somewhat advanced, there was oats and grass- seed in the newly cleared land, about half an acre-of pota- toes planted between the black stumps that yet disfigured the site for the house, and wheat in the old clearing. Altogether, though his crops were neither very extensive or promising, still a fair beginning was made, and as old MacGregor said, "fifrom mickle muckle wad come." And now came the crowning achievement of their labors, the raising of the new house and barn. For this purpose, one of the MacGregors set forth, like Roderick Dhu's swift henchman, to summon the scattered settlers, not indeed, to war, but to peaceful labor-not to slay, but to help their fellow-man.   "4      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. This is called " making a bee," and the voluntary assist. ance thus cheerfully given, enables the new settler to per- form such work as requires a number of hands. The arrangements for providing for the comfort and ac- commodation of those who came to assist, Henry entrusted to MacGregor and his wife. They laughed at his unoasi- ness on these points, assuring him that the men neither ex- pected or cared to have much trouble taken about them. It was a pleasant and novel sight to Henry, this gather- ing of the rough, honest settlers. There was a sprinkling of Americans, Germans, Scotch and Irish amongst them; but America had set the broad seal of her independence on the brows of all alike. The frame for the house had been drawn by oxen to where it was to stand; and now, with rude, temporary levers, it was raised from the ground, the cross beams dropped into the joints fitted to receive them, and the skeleton of the house stood on its legs. It must not be supposed that Henry remained in the woods all the winter, without seeing Rose; on the contrary, he had gone twice into Canada, and, to the young girl it seemed almost a beautiful dream, to listen to him describ- ing the home to which he was to lead her. How fervently she thanked God that this happiness came to her, without the cost of one dereliction fromt the path of honor or duty. Had it been otherwise, she asked herself,-had she, instead of flying, yielded to love, would she not have attributed all subsequent misfortune, even Mr. Daly's death, to her union with Henry?. Now, though happiness came to her through sorrow and-tears, it came pure and unsullied, and, without one pang of remorse, she could welcome it to her breast. Oh! this morning dream of young love realized, when all hope seemed fled, how it filled her whole being with ex- quisite, trembling joy. * How delightful were those sleigh 1 rides with her lover, through the woods, not a sound break- ing in upon the stillness, as they glided along, but the tink ling of the sleigh bells; how pleasant was it, at such times, to speak of Emily, and of the expected happiness of again meeting with her. Pleasing was it, to her maidenly re- serve, that Henry always coupled his sister's name with her \    THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. ,    465 own when he spoke of their living in their new home, and how Rose blushed and laughed when Henry read to her Emily's last letter, in which she peremptorily insisted on their getting married, and having the honeymoon over, be- fore he returned for her. "She had no notion," she wrote, " to allow herself to be tormented by the billing and cooing of two lovers. When they were o(nce married, she had no doubt but that they would fight, like other couples, in a comfortable, rational way.  But this parting with her lover was a terrible idea to poor Rose. True, she once had strength to voluntarily abandon him, but she had then accustomed herself to chain down her love, even though the links eat into her heart. In these latter davs she had given up all to love; no longer guarded, it became a tyrant, and she, its soft, timid slave. She was no longer a heroine, but a weak, loving girl, trem- bling at the shadow of that which she had once braved. But heaven, as if to reward her -for past suffering, so bravely en- dured, willed that she should not be again parted from her lover. It happened in this wise: Henry had never proposed or intended that he and Rose should be married, until a year had elapsed from the time of his father's death; it was a re- spect due to the memory of a good father, and one which his son never thought of evading. Accordingly, it was ar- ranged that the marriage should take place at the expira- tion of the year, and that Henry should leave for Ireland the following month. No-doubt it gave the young lover many painful twitches to think that he should have to part with his bride; but then, it was very pleasant to think of again meeting with Emilv, of telling Doctor Kelly all he had done, and pictur- ing to himself the old man walking up and down the room, rubbing his hands, as he was wont to do when greatly pleased, then stopping, from time to time, to ask Henry some question relative to his new home, or the country in general; or, perhaps, to say in a pleasant, joking way, a very wise thing. Another picture was, the whole family sitting around the   ^466      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, fire of an evening, questioning him of his travels; the doctor gravely proposing, that, to prevent confusion, and for the ac. commodation of all parties, not more than three should speak at the same time. The servant hunted from the room, when he entered with candles,--" no, no, far pleasanter to sit and chat by the light of the fire." So it is, and for the compli- ment paid to it, the fire sparkles and fumes in the grate, sending a host of bright sparks up the chimney, whilst by 'its ruddy reflection, the faces of those around are alternate- ly thrown into light and shade. Such were familiar pictures to Henry's mind, and although they did not console him for parting with Rose, yet he look- ed forward to their realization with pleasure. But in the latter end of May,-when he went for the third time into Canada, intending not to return to Michigan un- til after his visit to Ireland,-two letters arrived; one from Emily to Rose, and the other from Doctor Kelly, to Henry. It would have been difficult to have analyzed Henry's feel- ings, after he had read the doctor's letter. Dalystown, and all the other landed property which had been in the possession of the Dalystown family for centu- ries, had been sold by private sale. The sale was most advantageous, realizing sufficient to pay the encumbrances, including the money advanced by Doctor Kelly to Henry, Emily's two thousand pounds, which were lodged in the bank until she became of age, and leav- ing a balance of a few hundred pounds, after paying all debts and costs. In this transaction Mr. Carroll had shown himself an hon- est, upright man. So far, so good. Henry, of coIurse, ex- pected nothing less than that his property would be sold; he and his friends had exerted themselves to bring this event about; and, although the news of its actually having taken place gave him a sudden shock, yet the thought that he now owed no man a shilling, that his beloved father's debts were paid, was soothing, both to his pride and filial love; but what made this news bitter and humiliating was, that the purchaser of Dalystown was no other than Tim O'Roarke. The upstart, brainless bumpkin, to be the master of Da-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     467 lystown! Lyons, too, acting as Tim's agent, would be there, his mean nature swelling with pride and gratified spite, as he gave orders to change, alter and pull down, in a place whose former owner would have deemed his servants' hall polluted by his presence. This was a bitter draught to drink of. He crushed the letter in his hand and went forth into the woods, endeavoring, for hours, to calm down his excited feelings. When he returned to the house, Rose met him, her coun- tenance radiant with joy. "Oh, Henry," she exclaimed, such news, such joyful news." Surely your letter did not mention it or you would not wear that cloudy brow. What has happened, love, to disturb you .", "Dalystown is sold, sweet Rose." She glided up to himi and twined her arm around his waist. "Pear Henry," she said, in a pitying voice. "But, love, you expected this." "But, Rose, Tim O'Roarke is the purchaser. God of heaven! if a gentleman had taken my father's place, I would never murmur." She drew closer to him; he looked down upon her, all love as she was, and the frown passed away from his face. "What is this news in yours, bird " he said. The doc- tor's letter was all taken up about business. He said he would leave to Emily to explain some new arrangement they had made. What is it, love?" i' You are not to leave me, Henry." "How; what do you mean?" ' Emily is to come out without your having to return for her." "To come out alone? No, no, Rose, this must not be." "No, Henry, not alone; read her letter." Whehen he did so, he caught Rose in his arms and kissed "I am glad of this,' love," he said. "It was, indeed, hard to think of parting with you; but to go to Ireland now, to be within a few miles of Dalystown, desecrated as it is, in my eyes, would almost madden me."   "8      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. While Rose is chasing away the Madness from Henry's face, and he is forgetting aught else but that he loves her, I, who have seen Emily's letter, will, as in duty bound, dis. close its contents. A near relative of Dr. Kelly's deceased daughter-in-law had received an appointment, connected with the English embassy in America, and, as the gentleman was a married man, and intended to bring his wife out with him, the doc- tor came to the conclusion that it would be far better if Emily could accompany them to this country, and thus do away with the necessity of her brother's returning for her. The old man had always maintained a friendly corres. pondence with his daughter-in-law's family, and, on hearing of this appointment, he wrote, asking when Mr. Ferguson was to leave for America, and if Mrs. Ferguson would take Emily under her charge. His letter was answered by the lady herself waiting on Emily, to say how delighted she should be to have her for a traveling companion, and that they were to leave about the end of June. "'In fine," wrote Emily, ' all is concluded. Mrs. Fergu- son spent a week at the Grove; I like her very much; so by the time Henry would have been coming for me, I will be on my way to join you." The date of their leaving, and the name of the vessel, Henry was to be informed of in a subsequent letter, as it would be necessary for him to go to New York to meet his sister. "And now, Rose," said Henry, as they talked over all this, do you not see, love, that we must hurry and get married, or we will have Emily scolding us for not obeying her comn. mands."1 Rose blushed, as she made answer: "You forget, Henry, that was in case of your being obliged to return for her; now it is quite different." ^ Nay, my little casuist, you shall not get off that way; her reason still holds good." "If it ever did, sir. But wait, dear Henry, until Emily, arrives; it is but for a few weeks, and then" "And then, Rose?' "She can be my bridesmaid, Henry. You would not re-   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     469" fuse if you knew what happiness it will be to me to have her with me." "I can refuse you nothing, sweetheart," replied her lov- er, kissing her lips, ere they had time to thank him in words; nevertheless they did thank him, and very sweetly too. Before Henry set out for New York to meet his sister, a letter arrived from Edward Vaughan. He had reached Cal- cutta in safety, and Captain Thompson's kindness knew no bounds. Although he seemed, to judge by his letter, de- lighted with his voyage, there was one great drawhack. He feared that they would be deoffn;lnel so long that they, could not reach England before November, so he despaired of having Emily and Henrv as passengers on board the James Monroe. Unlucky vessel,-unlucky Edward; and very near to despair this disappointment seemed to drive him; half his letter was taken up deploring it, and Emily's name figured in every second line. "He loves Emily," said Rose. "Nonsense, Rose,"' replied Henry, he is but a boy." "Boys are sometimes very ardent lovers,1" she answered ,archly, " but did you not suspect anything of the kind?" "No, never on my word." "Then why did you give him Emily's likeness?" "Simply, because I had two of them. Had I one of my own I would have given it instead." "I suspect your doing so would have been a mistake," said Rose, smiling. Henry mused for a moment. - "If you are right, Rose," he said, do you think Emily suspets anything of this?" "am sure she does not. He is but a boy in her eyes, alth ugh there is such little difference in their ages. Be- sides, she added, laughing, "Emily never does know when she has a lover; I think Anthony O'Kellly loved her, but when he perceived how unconscious she was of it, he never had courage to tell her so." "You are the first one, Rose, whom I have heard, doubt O'Kelly's courage." "Oh, very brave men," replied Rose, " are sometimes great cowards in such matters. Every one has not the im- pudence of some people whom I know."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTO WN. Here followed a little by-play, made up of a little mock resistance and a good deal of real kissing, what, I regret to say, my dear young lady, does not concern either you or I, at present, and which I, therefore, very properly pass over. Then Henry said, musingly, " If this is so, and if,- well there is no use speculating about what, after all, I be- lieve is but an idle thought of this girl's, who, because she is dreadfully in love herself, thinks every one else must be so likewise." "You show far more symptoms of being in love than I do," replied Rose, laughing. "How so, pray ?" "Because, lovers are proverbially blind." "Only to the faults of those they love, Rose," he answeed.   CHAPTER XXXIV. Henry was very busy now, every moment of tis time be. ing fully employed. Accompanied by Mr. Kirwan and two tradesmen from Detroit, he returned to Michigan to put his house in order. "All this will look very wild to Emily," he thought, as they went plodding and jolting through the forest, driving a few head of cattle before them, and following with their wagons, loaded with all kinds of miscellaneous articles. Their journey was slow and tedious. Sometimes the cat tie got wild and went scampering off through the woods, and were not got back without delay and trouble. Then again, a wheel would come off, or an axletree break, and by the time the wagon was unloaded, the damage repaired, and the load again replaced, it wouldperhaps, be time to prepare for camping.  THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     471 Such things, of course, delayed them on their journey, and Henry could not but envy the few pedestrians they met with, who, unincumbered, save with axe and blanket, seemed to pass them at railway speed. Verily, a light purse gives light heels, ant a light heart too, sometimes. However, they at length arrived at those laughing lakes, and as they emerged from the forest, they caught glimpses of Henry's new home, through the foliage which the early summer had dressed in all the beauty of woodland scenery. Henry and his party put up at MacGregor's, for a few days, and when he saw all the work fairly started, he returned with Mr. Kirwan to Canada, leaving MacGregor in charge of his property during his absence. One happy week with Rose, spent in laying out plans for the future, and then he set out for New York, to meet Emily. The Fergusons, with whom she was coming out, intend- ed to proceed south immediately on arriving in this country, so that it was necessary he should be in New York in time to meet them. Two days after his arrival in that city, brother and sister were again united. With what joy they rushed into each other's arms; how they longed to be alone, away from the crowd and confusion, they had so many thousand things to say and hear; yet, when they were at length left to themselves, how very, very sad they became; for in this, their first meeting in a strange land, neither could look upon the other without thinking of him who was wont to welcome their return with such tender joy. Such thoughts saddened them for a time, chastening the joy of their meeting, yet was it not less happy from their paying the tribute of tears to the memory of a loving father. "Your book is full of tears, sir." Yes, sir-e-e, and so is the world. I have not taken a gill more than my share. Henry now prepared to set out with Emily for their western home. He dreaded the long journey before her, when he thought how weary it made himself, and looking at the light graceful form of his sister, he said to himself; she is sure to catch cold, or get sick and dispirited." But  472      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN6 Emily set out determined to be pleased with everything and everybody, so she remained in good health and spirits during the whole of the journey. I wish we could all set out on life's journey with such a resolution, and keep to it, our recollection of the ruts and tumbles would then be far less painful. Emily did not even blush, but laughed merrily, when flung into the arms of the man who sat opposite to her in the stage, and she insisted on carrying the baby, now and then, for his delicate wife, merely, she said, to give herself ballast and to guard her from future mishaps. Al length Mr. Kirwan's place is reached in safety, and then comes Rose, running down the path to the wicket. Emily jumps, light as a bird, out of the wagon, and the two young girls are locked in each other's arms. Then down comes Mrs. Kirwan, panting, with a troop of children at her heels, and Emily is borne in a kind of triumph to the house, no one paying any attention to Henry, even Rose merely noticing his presence with a pleasant nod. Inside the house, Emily and Rose again embrace, and then sit down and cry. Mrs. Kirwan says " it will do them good," and wishing to be a partaker of a good thing while it is going on, she commences to cry herself, in a comforta- ble way. The children seeing their mother cry, commence to howl, as if the whole family were ordered out for imme- diate execution, whereupon Rose and Emily laugh, lMrs. Kirwan laughs, and the children laugh, and these are the last tears which Rose or Emily shall shed for many a long day. Mrs. Kirwan was in a " hurra boys" furore about her guests. Irish herself, she was susceptible to the claims of birth, and in her young days the grandeur and antiquity of the Dalys- town family had been impressed upon her; so she looked upon it as a great honor that the representative of such a family was about to wed her niece. There was but one drawhack to her happiness; she had no gossips whom she could overwhelm with the news; there was no use in her going amongst the settlers in the neigh- borhood, and opening out upon them; she had tried it once, and came back routed and crest-fallen.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      473 (' Think," she said to Rose, " of that Mrs. Wyman, asking me, if Mr. Daly was " kinder handy" with the axe, and when I told her that he had never handled an axe or plough in his life, she said, ' them kind of folks had better stop at home, and that she would be sorry her Rachel took up with one of them,' under these circumstances, as a kind of safety valve for her pent up feelings, she was in the habit of kick- ing Mr. Kirwan under the bedclothing, and impressing upon him the honor that was about to be reflected upon him through her; but her guests were so quiet and unassuming -your true lady or gentleman always is so-that she soon began to respect them, more for themselves than for their pedigree. And now, the time was at hand when Henry Daly and Rose O'Donnell were to become one. How beautiful the earth appeared to the young lovers. Standing hand'in hand, on the threshold of life, hope seemed to beckon them on to a bright, unclouded future. The marriage was to be a very simple, quiet affair, the very opposite to tliose that take place in St. George's church, I Hanover Square, London, and yet, a lovelier bride than Rose never stood before its altar-I beg your pardon, my Lord Bishop of London, I suppose St. George's church, Han- over Square, has no such Popish relic. The party were to go in the morning to the little log church, al!:,out three miles distant, and after the ceremony, Henry, Rose, and Emily were to leave for Michigan, stay a week in Detroit, and then set out for their new home. Mrs. Kirwan was for having the bridal procession as im- posing as possible,-Henry, Rose, and Emily, in the vehicle which was to convey them to the confines of Canada, Kir- wan and his wife in a ricketty buggy, got on its legs for the occasion, with every probability of its getting off them at the shortest notice,-while the children and helps were to bring up the rear in an ox wagon. She had even commenced to huntt up ribbons to tie onthe hornsof the oxen, but though 'Henry could not help laughing outright when she laid her programme before him, he was far from wishing to see it carried out. For mercy sake, Emily," he said, "'speak to Rose, and r   474      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. both of you try and get this ridiculous idea out of Mrs. Kir- wan's head, without offending her. Only think of oxen with ribbons flying from their horns! On my word, it would be like the procession of some pagan sacrifice, and you and Rose the lovely victims. We will walk to the church, tak- ing the Indian trail that leads to it; our unwieldy convey- ance can follow after. Father Benoist has promised to meet us at ten o'clock, and by leaving early we will have plenty of time to reach the church at that hour; Mr. and Mrs. Kir. wan can go in our carriage, that is, unless you and Rose think the walk too far." "Not at all," replied Emily. "You know, of old, that Rose and I are famous walkers. I will arrange all about it" So, on a calm, sunny morning, towards the close of sum- mer, bride and bridegroom walked to the log church, and knelt before its rude altar, and 'vowed to love and cherish each other until death. No organ pealed, no fashionable crowd hurried forward to give them their hollow congratulations; but, hidden in their leafy choir, the birds sang sweet anthems, and the, wild vine waved a greeting to them as they passedfrom be. neath the lowly porch I Home! It has ever a sweet, holy sound, though it be a new and strange one that we go to. There is a worldof beauty in the word itself. Poets have woven around it the most beautiful imagery; yet, it stands out amidst those clus- tering gems of words, the brightest of them all, and when the book is closed, the imagery, but fading shadow in the mind, this word has still an echo in the heart. There is ever hope for the most abandoned, when they have pleasant home recollections to look back to; such may be obscured, but they are never effaced. Nay, so suscepti- ble do they often remain, that a strain of gentle music, or the perfume of a simple flower, will awaken them into life. The journey of the bridal party home, was a happy one and if there was a good deal of jolting, there was also a good deal of laughing in the green woods. Henry, during the journey, obstinately refused to de- scribe their new home,--albeit he had done so a hundred times before,-or to let them know when they might ex-   THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN,      475 pect to reach it, and Rose and Emily, becoming indignant and independent, laid heavy betswith him that they would know it on reaching it. Thus they journeyed on, laughing and chatting until they came to the shore of the lake having the island in its cen- tre; both his companions looked at Henry, there was a flush upon his face. Then they clapped their little hands in triumph, exclaiming, " we're at home! here it is!" "Where?" said Henry, as the horses' heads were turned from the lake and they again entered the forest. Rose and Emily looked disappointed. "Ah, I'm so sorry,"i said the former, " but I thought that this lovely little lake looked like the one you described to me." "It is the same, dear Rose," answered Henry, " but we go to Mr. MacGregor's for to night; I am delighted that I lost my wager. Look, you can see our new home through those trees." "You shall pay double, sir, for your heartless duplicity," said Emily, "' but do, Henry, let us stop and run up to the house to look at it." "Not to-night, Emily, it is late; we go there to-morrow to remain."  "And we will pray dear, to-night," said Rose, as she took Emily's hand between her own, " that this, our new home, may be as peaceful as it is beautiful.' Miss MacGregor accompanied them on a visit, the next day, to initiate them into the mysteries of American house- wifery, but it must be confessed that there was but little progress made by either of the novices, for the first month or so. There were so many little dells to explore, so many dif- ferent points to select from: which to view the lakes, the house and wooded shores; it was so pleasant and exciting to lose one's way when not more than a few hundred yards from the house, and then, just when thoughts of bears, snakes and Indians were coming to the mind, to find one's self standingright before it. Then there were those delightful boat rides on the lakes, and rambles on the island, and musings by its graves. 31-   476      THE DALYS OF DA YTON. Sometimes they were accompanied by one of the young MacGregors, who acted as boatman, and after landing, he and Henry would take their guns and go into the woods in search of game, and it would have been a sight full of interest to a contemplative mind, those two fair, lovely women, representing the race of the conqueror, gazing with pensive eyes, where slept the conquered children of the forest. "Surely," said Emily. one evening, as they crossed over from the itland, ' those graves will never be disturbed." "I dinna ken that," said MacGregor. "It may be pur- chased by some one who will build there, and you see the best site for a house is just where those mounds are." As he spoke, he rested on his oars, and all looked back at the island. There it lay in its silent beauty, not a ripple on its shore; its green foliage just sprinkled by autumn's first golden shower. "I will never have any pleasure in going there again," said Emily. 'I will always fear to find, some day, that lonely burial ground desecrated, and those poor old Indian apple trees that guard it, uprooted." 4' What if we buy it, Emily," said Henry. " Oh, delightful!" she answered. (' Do you know, George," asked Henry, " what value is set upon it, or to whom one should apply?" "My father can tell you all about it," answered Mac- Gregor. "I suppose it would fetch about three hundred dollars." "Then I will purchase it, and we will build a summer house there, Emily, and make you and Rose the guardian genii of the lonely isle." "Beautiful," said-Emily, waving her straw hat. "What a dear, good brother you are, to be sure. You know, Rose, he has always spoiled me, so you must not prevent him from doing so now." '"Do not fear, Emily," answered Rose, laughing, "I am not going to make so hopeless an attenlpt." But, what engaged most of their time: was the planning and laying out a flower garden. First, there were many solemn debates held, as to the mlost suitable place. Both   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      4" Rose and Emily wished to have it at the right of the house, because the one at Dalystown stood so; but this would give it a northern aspect. Her e was a slight damper at the com- mencement, and though Henry suggested something about making inquiries whether Joshua was still in the sun bus- iness; and if they could make arrangement with him, there  was notling to do for it but place it at the left of the house. The next thing was to have it resemble, as nearly as possi- lle, the one it was intended to represent,-to have it of the same extent was out of the question, for many a day to come. Indeed, there were frightful obstacles, in the way of blackened stumlps, to laying it out at all, but George MAacGregor spent a few very busy days in grubbing around those with spade and axe, after which he and Henry at- tached the oxen to them with long chains; then, after a deal of hawing and geeing, they were dragged out, one af- ter another, leaving big holes after them, which Emily peeped into very cautiously, lest she might tumble in; but these were quickly filled up, the plow and drag passed over them, and George MacGregor went to work under the spe- cial direction of Rose and Emily, laying out rough beds and walks, which were to be dressed up and furnished the Iollowing spring. It was novel, and pleasant enough to the young man, to lhear their sweet voices, and have their bright eyes looking at himi as he worked. But by-and-bye, all the hurry, excitement and novelty aDated, and they settled down, pretty soberly, to attend to their domestic duties. At first, Henry was in favor of their getting a girl to assist them, but he was nlet by such filrm resistance, that he gave up urging the point, and, sure- Iy, it was wortl money to see Emily tripping across the yard to millk the cows, her dress pinned up at the side, and a little straw hat, thrown in a careless, jaunt;y fashion, on iher head ; and. surely, no butter ever tasted so sweet as that I which- Rose ilade, at least so thoulght Henry. Neverthe- t less he had misgivinos that all this work would make little whllite lands clappied and rough; and, like all his class, he ]lad a horror of rou gh hands, that is in woman ; for hinmself he rather liked them now, as it was clothing them. as it were, in forest garb.   478      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWXN It gave him much pleasure then, when, towards the close of the fall, a young Irish girl came round, looking for sert vice. Her father had sometime before squatted on wild land, and dying shortly afterwards, had left his child unpro- tected in the wilderness; she had made her way to this part of Michigan, and one of the settlers brought her in his wagon to Henry Daly's house, knowing that he was a countryman of hers, and one in a position to employ help; for it was already guessed in the neighborhood that he had brought a good capital into the woods. There was no persuasion necessary to induce Rose to lire this girl, her sorrowful, half-frightened face was suffi- cient passport for her. She was at once engaged, to Henry's great satisfaction. He could now sleep at nights without dreaming that the hand around his neck was as coarse as a plowman's. Bessy Flyn was a pretty, modest-looking girl, and her Irish stories, and plaintive Irish airs, were a pleasing addi- tion to the little circle, whose hearts were all Irish. In the meantime, Henry was busy in acquiring a knowl- edge of American farming; he had determined to go to work, just as if he had no capital to rely upon; then, when he became practically acquainted with the capabilities of his land, he could bring forward his capital with more se- curity and advantage. CHAPTER XXXV. The fall and winter glided by, nothing disturbing or breaking in upon the quiet lives of the new settlers, save the excitement attendant on the arrival of letters from home.   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      479 Yes, it was home still, though they might never more behold it! Home, though the links, which had held them to it, were rudely severed! Home, though an ocean lay between! You may break, you may shatter the vase, if you will, But the scent of the roses will hang round it still." The letters they received were not many, and took a long time in coming; those from Doctor Kelly were cheerful and encouraging, and led them fondly to hope that the good d man still retained his happy, cheerful spirits, but, towards the close of the winter, one from Mrs. Kelly to Emily read somewhat-different. "I- He has never been the same," she wrote, "since you left us. He has grown absent and thoughtful, rousircg himself with an effort. It was but yesterday he said to me : "I miss them all, Mary, the old and the young, but what matters it; this is glorious news we have from Henry, and that little lark, Emily, has already begun to sing in her new home." Good, good old man!-light rest thie green sod that covers your ashes! Surely the trumpet which shall awake the sons of men will have no terrors for you! The new year brought to them a letter from Edward Vaughan; he had arrived safe in England ; but will the fel- low never have done lamenting his bad fortune in not be- ing in time to have brought out Emily in the James Mon- roe; it seems not, for he harps on it still, and Emily says, whilst Rose gives her husband a very intelligible smile, "poor, dear, little Edward, what a warm-hearted, good- natured boy, he is; I wish he could come and see us, Henry." Henry also received a letter from Captain Thompson,. written a few months later, and dated from New York. "Edward never tires of speaking of you and Miss Daly," he wrote; "I am perfectly familiar with every nook in Dalystown and the Grove, and I must certainly- go to Ire- land to pay a visit to that fine old doctor." In another part of this letter he wrote, i' Edward is now- quite au fait at his profession; yet, I believe, so great is;   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. his attachment to you, that he will be far happier in your society, and engaged in the same pursuits, than in any other position; therefore, if I had never made a promise, I would now propose to you to hunt up some home for us, the nearer to yourself the better, that is, if you can find a vacant spot in so small a place as Michigan. What think you of the west now ? I expect to hear of your sending over for that little England to top-dress your garden with." This mail brought another letter from Edward. "How he longed to see them all. What a beautiful place it must be from Henry's description of it! How he should like to sail on one of those lakes with Mrs. Daly and Emily"-the words Mrs. Daly," written overhead the line, having been left out in the first instance-" were there any people in the neighborhood; any young gentlemen." Here there was a great blot. By Venus, the young scamp is growing jealous already. From this out, the James Monroe never came into an American port, that Edward did not flatter himself with the idea of being able to pay his friends in Michigan a vis- it; but the vessel never remained long enough to allow him to do so, and he knew Captain Thompson would not wish to put to sea without him, besides, as time advanced, he be- came an active, zealous officer, and could not well be spared. Thus three years passed over without his having once seen his former friends, when Captain Thompson proposed to re deem his promise. During those three years, Henry had not been idle. Af- ter he had got settled, he wrote to Doctor Kelly that he wanted hands to work his farm, and if any of the Dalystown tenants wished to emigrate, he could give, to a certain num- b)er, both land and employment. He also authorized his friend to assist any of those selected, who required it, with money to defray their expenses. The commission brought a, host of applicants to the doc- tor, who selected from them those whoni he believed best suited; but it gave him no little surprise when James De- lany called upon him to say that he and his parents were about emigrating to America. " You will give us the direction, doctor," he said, by which   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.           481   we can find out Mr. Henry. I make sure he'll be glad to see us. " But at your father's time of life. James," said, the doc- tor, '' I wonder he would think of going." " Better to go while we have something to go with, doc- tor. Perhaps if he remained, he would live to see himself turned out of house and home." " Well, James, perhaps you are right, still we have no reason to suppose that Tim O'Roarke will be as bad as his father. I do not think myself that he will." " Devil trust him, sir. A singing bird never came out of a hawk?'s nest. Howsomever, my father or myself wouldn't stop under any bodagh, and the old man won't findit hard at all, but quite natural-like when he has Mr. Henry to look at." So amongst others, James Delany and his father joined Henry. The latter was very glad at this, and made James his right-hand man on the farm, giving him fifty acres of land, on which he lived with the old couple. The consequence of this addition of hands was, that in a short time Henry Daly's land assumed an appearance of cultivation it would have taken years to effect, with the ordinary resources of settlers. But even when this farm, and others for miles around, would be cleared, making the wild forest give place to smiling homesteads, there was one place that promised to remain in its primitive beauty. This was the island, which Henry purchased the first winter of his residence in Michigan.  Not an axe ever disturbed its solitude. It could have been made productive, I must al- low, but as Henry was industrious and hard-working, we will forgive him for indulging a little in the romance in ref- erence to this island and other things I wot of. Heaven knows the world, at best, affords but scanty nour- ishment for an immortal spirit. It is not well to be forever cramming ourselves with pig iron, cotton bales, railway shares, and land speculations. Let the spirit have breath- ings-even if they needs must be short ones-in the fields of romance and poetry; mayhap, it will catch faint glimpses, shadowy reflections, of the beauty which awaits its flight from earth. God has given the flowers color, scent and taste; the   482      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. last for the beast, the two others for man. Raise your eyes and nose from that musty ledger, my master, or the donkey will have the best of it. Perhaps the happiest and most tranquil hours for Henry were those when the business of the hot summer's day closed, and, accompanied by his wife and sister, he rowed over to the island, and, reclining in its -cool shade, listened to the sweet prattle of those loved ones. One evening, as thus reclining. Rose remarked that he looked unusually fatigued. Sitting down beside him, she raised the hair off his forehead. "Dear Henry," she said, "you have fatigued yourself too much to-day ; why should you do so'? How sunburnt your poor forehead is." "You would not have me be like a Bond street dandy, Rose, in the woods of North America ." he replied, i' or an idle drone, when all are busy?" "Surely not, but you have done more, far more than any of those around us." "Say rather, Rose, that I was fortunate enough to have means to get it done for me: and, do you know, Rose, at such moments as the present, I sometimes wish that the tranquil happiness we have found here, could content me- here, where Deep forgetfulness, succeeds the roar of life, And wasting passions fret the heart no more." "And why should it not, Henry?" asked Emily. "Why should it not." he replied, raising himself on his arm and looking at her with a smile.--"You, my sister, to ask that question." Then, standing up, he pointed to the East, burnished by the setting sun. "There is a goal, Emily," he said, beyond those woods, an inheritance to be won back, though it should take years of toil, nay of suffering to accomplish it." Rose sighed; but Emily, catching her brother's enthusi- asm, replied, "Well answered, Henry. Oh! for the day when a Daly shall again sit in Dalystown, as master!" Then the little party fell to musing, and Emily, thinking of her father, and of the suffering which this pride of birth had entailed upon him, felt her spirit subdued. "After all, Henry," she said, " we are very happy here, why think of returning?"    "The timid hare," he replied, " returns to the form she has been hunted from. But all this is so distant, that we may defer the discussion of it for a dozen years, at least, though Rose is looking as sad, as if she was preparing an early start in the morning. Let's see, this is the 18th, well, we may expect Captain Thompsonl and Edward in a month fromI this." "I am longing to see Edward," said Emily. "And Captain Thompson, you tell me, is quite a handsome man, of about fifty-five or so; quite my style. Do you think, Rose, have I any chance of getting him to fall in love with me?"' "He is too old for a lover, Emily," -as WU crod Rose. "Not a bit of it, child, I am determined to make a con- quest of the gallant captain's heart. I must consult Ed- ward Vaughan on the best way of going about doing it." "Oh, certainly," replied Rose. "If you are resolved to make the attempt, I advise you, by all means, to make Edward your confidant." "I will put the captain on his guard," said Henry. "But the sun has set, and we have no moon to-night, to light us home." "But see," said Emily, ' the fireflies are lighting their tiny lamps, and the whippowil calls to us from the shore." , And is answered by the sweet notes of the bullfrog," said Henry. "Oh, you wretch; I was just going to be sentimental, but your frog has swallowed up all my pretty ideas." "Never mind, Emily, you will have them back in time for the captain. Jump in, both of you, and I will push off the boat." "That man's name, love," remarked Emily to Rose, as they took their seats in the boat, "is a great drawhack. I fear I never could accustom myself to it. And then, in time, people would begin to call me Mrs. Tom. Oh! odious." ", And then," said Henry, "there would be the little Tommies.," "' I wish, Rose, we had got George MacGregor to row us, this evening; he is much better behaved than your hus- band at the expiration of which The month sped quickly over, at the expiration of which,   Henry expected the arrival of his two friends. If Captain Thompson, after seeing for himself, made up his mind to re- main amongst them, there were plenty of places in the nei ghborhood to select from; so, although Hen ry had been looking around, and had fixed upon one which he thought would just suit, he waited the arrival of the captain, before making any proposal for it. He was anxious, too, to have him his guest as long as possible. As the time came round when their friends might be ex- pected, (the exact day was not known,) Henry became rest. less and idle,-Rose 'and Emily busy in making prepara- tions to receive them. Their eyes were constantly directed to the point, where the road through the woods opened up on the shore, fronting the house. Thus passed three anxious days. On the evening of the third, they had remained sitting on the front stoop of the house, watching the road uutil nightfall; then, much dis- appointed, they turned in. "Well," said Henry, they must surely be here on to-mor- row. Emily, will you finish the story you were-reading last night 8" She opened the book and they soon became interested in what she read, so much so, that they did not hear the sound of a wagon approaching. In the west people sel- dom care to shut the doors in summer, and he who now jumped from the wagon that drew up opposite the house, was all too anxious to meet those within to stand on cere- mony; so, with a light step, he passed through the open doorway onl to the room from which the tones of a sweet voice now reached him. At the sound of the opening door, Henry turned round. "Edward," he exclaimed, springing up and upsetting the chair upon which he had been sitting, "Edward, my dear fellow, how are you?" "Edward!" said Emily, running forward to meet " the dear little boy," and to find ]lerself, to her great surprise, in the arms of a tall young man. Then followed a little scene of bustle and joy, during which Captain Thompson was introduced to Rose and Emily; indeed, introduced is quite too formal a word here, for they met like old friends.   Of course, for half-an-hour or so, no one thought of sit- tinllg down, or if they did, they were up again in a jump as if tihe chairs bristled with pins. Henry went out to see that the team was cared for, but returned without having made the slightest inquiry on the subject. Edward ran to see after the baggage, but, just as he reached the hall, Emily was tripping up the stairs, so he stopped to look after her and then returned to the room he had quitted and commenced shalking hands in lthe mostfran- tic manner with all present. Amongst others, he greeted Captain Thompson very warmly. "How do you do, my d ear fellow," said the captain, "it is a long time since I hId the pleasure of seeing you." At this there was a great laugh at Edward, but the fun- niest circumstance of all was the ridiculous way Emily kept running in and out of all the rooms, up stairs and down, with a bright blush on her face all the while. During one of those trips, she took an opportunity of whispering to Rose, "that she was quite disappointed at finding Edward so grown; that she would not have any comfort with hinl for the future. and that hle was very impertinent to kiss her the way he did." Rose whispered to her "not to quarrel with Edward, as she would require his assistance in winning tihe captain." Whereupon Emily blushed twice as much, and told Rose, "she was a provoking creature." All this was very unaccountable, unless there was more in the kiss--Edward's kiss--than has transpired. To be sure, there are a thousand different ways of giving a kIiss. I remember myself, when on returning honle, dur- ing vacation, how very different was the kiss I gave my grandmother, from the one I gave my little cousin; the for- mer-God forgive me--was like a dose of physic, and the other, the-sulgar to take the taste off my mouth. In the course of the evening, when the excitement had a little calmed down, and they all sangether in the par- lor, Emily found it most provoking that she never chanced to look in the direction Edward was in, without finding his eyes fixed upon her; this confused her and made her blush,   and to avoid it, she turned her back upon him; then she thought she would just peep over her shoulder. Upon my word there he was staring at her back. Was there ever anything so provoking. It gave her a little comfort, though, to find that on his being detected, Edward seemed more confused than herself. However this would never do, and she resolved that the best way to put an end to it was to try and chat to him as of old. She did so, and succeeded admirably, and for the present there was no allusion made to his late impudent act. "And so Mr. Daly," said Captain Thompson, concluding a conversation he had been engaged in for some time with Henry, ' Edward and myself have come to moor our ves sel alongside of you." "It delights me to hear it, captain,"' replied Henry. "But you must remain my guest for a long time, before you do anything final. I would not see you bind yourself down to the wilderness, and then get tired of it. It will be a new life to you, and therefore it is best we should let you test it." "There is no use, Daly," replied Captain Thompson; "that fellow there is bound to be near you, and he draws me with him. So you must not refuse to have us for neighbors." It is not likely that I will do so, captain, and I bid you welcome with all my heart." Though Edward had grown so awkwardly tall, yet, after a little, Emily found him a great assistance to her in gar- dening; not but that he was slow, and made mistakes con- tinually, from a habit he had of looking at her instead of the work he was employed in, and she was obliged to scold him frequently. This was especially the case one day that Henry had driven Rose and Captain Thompson to a farm which the latter was negotiating for, leaving Emily and Edward busy in the flower garden. "You stupid boy," exclaimed Emily, for the twentieth time that day, "look, you are trampling that lily to death." "I wish to goodness," thought Edward, striding unmer- cifully into a bed of violets, " that she would give up call- ing me a boy." "There again. Oh, my poor violets!"l \ i   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      487 "I beg your pardon, Emily, I did not see -where I was stepping, said Edward, stooping down to arrange the bed. As he bent down, the miniature he wore around his neck, together with the locket Emily had given to him, escaped fronm their hiding place and appeared dangling from a blue "W;hat is thils?" said Emily. "As I live, a miniature! Oh, you naughty boy, you have been making love to some poor, silly girl!' And before Edward could say or do anything, she had the likeness in her hand. But one glance was suf- ficient to make her drop it again; and then both stood, si- lent, ,blushing, and afraid. At length Emily said, in as saucy a tone as she could get up, "Pray sir, where did you get that?' Now or never," thought Edward, summoning up courage. "i got it, Emily," he stammered out, "from Henry, when 1 was partint with him, and I have worn it next my heart ever since, because--because--oh Emily I love you. There now. I have told you all; but do not be angry with me. If it vexes you I will go again to sea, and you will never, never, see me more." We must suppose that Emily was not vexed, for I find no mention miade of Edward's going to sea again, but there is recorded a portion of a conversation which took place between Rose and Emily, on the evening of the sam e day. "And so," said Rose, " it is little Edward, andnot the cap- tain, after all." "Oh, Rose, he is nearly as tall as Henry." "I know it love, but I feared to vex you by seeming to notice it; for you, know you told me the first evening of his arrival, that you could never have any more comfort with im, he had grown so tall." "Rose," said Emily, half crying and laughing, i this is not fair of you. I know it must look very silly ; but I cannot tell how much I love him, and Rose, he loves me, oh, twice as much as I deserve." "D ear, sweet sister,' said Rose, as she folded the blush- ing girl ill her arms, '; no one can love you better than you deserve. "   488      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. CHAPTER XXXVI. Twenty years have come and gone! How sped they with Henry Daly, with the icountry oi his adoption, w'ith the land of his birth.? What have they written on history's page .? Oh pardon me, my country,-pardon me, my own, beauti- ful, sorrowing land,--if I shrink fiow dwelling on your re- cord. I have glanced at it, and it is so blistered with tears, so darkened with sorrow, that I may not now scan it too closely; for mine eyes are filled with tears, and my brain reels with indignant shame! Turn I to the bright page of American history! Look we but over twenty years, and if events, rather than time, mark the progress of a nation, a century seems to have rolled by! Liberty!-child born of' heaven,-blessed be God, Awhat a mother of giants you are! Out from the primeval forest, across prairies and mountains, come states and territories; and as these, your fair children, grow around you, you stretch forth your mighty arms, and ask for more! But twenty years since, Henryv Daly reached Miclhirgan, after a tedious journey of nearly two months ; nowV, lhe can travel over the same route in twenty-four hours, while, stretching thousands of miles beyond him, is still the west, dotted with thriving settlements, growing cities, and culti- vated fields. From sunrise to sundown, is heard the chleer- ful clink of the hammer; on the high ranges where the bison was wont to bound, and by the banks of rivers, and the shores of lalkes, where the heron and loon kept solitary vigil, the mill wheel makes pleasant nmusic, and the bright ploughshare turns up the frlitful soil! During those twenty years. Henry Daly's fortunes kept pace with the prosperity around him. Colnmencingr unem- barrassed, with a fair capital, his land increased in value   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.   I  489 as he improved it, and the country around him became set- tled. He found himself, after a few years, the proprietor of a large tract of well cleared land, while his money capital was undiminished. Then, as his experience increased, so did his confidence, and he speculated largely in wild lands. In this way he became the owner of a tract of mining land, and when it came to be explored, he sold out, realizing a handsome fortune by this successful hit alone. He was now a rich man, and, from this out, was more engaged in winding up his anairs, and withdrawing from speculations, than engaging in new ones. For some time back, news had reached him from Ireland which made him feverishy anx- ious to have a lalge portion of his capital so situated that he could command it at the shortest notice. Edward Vaughan was differently situated. Emily's for- tune, and the money which Captain Thompson (now an old and very happy man,) left him the entire management of, gave him, at the commencemerlt, nore ample means than Henry; but, not having the motive which' prompted the latter to untiring exertion, he cared not, like him, to in- crease his capital. He was content with the steady, healthy prosperity which came to him gradually. His farm was ex- tensive, well stocked and cultivated. He had scarcely a wish ungratified. How could increase of wealth add to such happiness as his? "I would," he said to Emily, "that Henry could be con. tented, as I am, with present happiness; that his proud heart would cease from dwellingl on the past, from straining for that which, when won, may bring no increase of happiness along with it." 'I, too, Edward," she replied, " have learned to think as you. Mv children's country has become mine, but it is dif- ferent with Henry; the old place is as fresh in his memory as the day he parted from it." "And why should it not, Emily?" said her brother, who had overheard the latter part of her remark as he entered the room, with his wife. "Why should it not? -I have-come over to tell you Edward, that I have just had news from Ire- land." It is as I expected; those few brave spirits, scorn- ing life, whilst gaunt famine slays their countrymen by tens   "O      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. of thousands, have taken the field. But they will fail; mis. erably fail! Who could put men's hearts into those fam- ished skeletons, who lie down to die, while the cars laden with grain, on its way to a foreign market, pass their doors --whose hunger is mocked by the sleek skins of the beasts that graze beside them in undisturbed security. "Smith O'Brien is in Tipperary, I see," said Edward, who had glanced over the paper, which Henry lad handed to him. '"Would to God," answered the latter, as he paced the room with agitated steps, "that the noble gentleman lay dead, on a well fought field, rather than, as he will be, a captive in the hands of his enemies! Yes, I see it all, lihe will be taken, tried,-there will be fat slaves on the bencl, fat slaves in the jury-box, fat slaves prosecuting, fat slaves crowding the court, fat slaves looking down on him fromn the galleries, poking each other in their, fat ribs, and won- dering how any man could be so mad. For, mark you, the simnoom breath of slavery destroys the power of discerning nobility of soul. To such as I allude too, Washington de- feated, would be but a foolish rebel hanged. All the noble attributes are but the ravings of madness; chivalrous valor but vain bravado, unless in him who wears his master's collar round his neck. Thev are dead to all generous sen- timent. Instinct tells them where to grub,---it tells the hog as well. But, in defiance of all this, the chained eagle will turn his eyes to the sun." "Have you received any other news, from Ireland ." "Yes, Emily, I had a letter from Mr. Carroll. He tells me there is no doubt but that Dalystown will be sold in the Encumbered Estates Court. That unfortunate fool, O'Roarke, has squandered every shilling which his father left to lim'. I  am sorry for him, but a fortune acquired as this was, could not but melt away." "' Talking of the Encumbered Estates Court," said Edward, "what is the nature of this new act?" "Why, you know," replied Henry,   ', that up to this, it tooVk years to sell landed property in the Court of Chancery Now in this now court, a  creditor can sell an estate as quickly, in comparison to the old course, as you could sell a  horse. "   i         THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN,      491 "That is a great improvement, I should say," remarked Edward. "No doubt but it is," replied the other, "but mark the time the English government takes to put it into operation. Just when property is actually of no value in Ireland, when it is panic-stricken by famine, they pass an act, the effect of which will be, to throw all the encumbered properties in Ireland in one heap into the market." "This will beggar a large number of landlords," said Edward. "Of course it will," replied Henry, i' but most of them de- serve it." They had kennels for their dogs, stables for their horses-these were petted, thought of, but when a poor man approached them, it should be with his hat off; and every second word should be, your honor,--your honor. Oh d-n their honors," he exclaimed, jumping up from the chair, in- -to which he had thrown himself, and again commencing to pace the room, as he continued- "It is like hacking at my own flesh and blood to say all this, but my American education, has opened my eyes to its truth, and made me loathe it. Thank God, that amongst our many shorltcomings, none of my race were ever tyrants to the poor, or toadies to the English government, and most of those landlords, were both,--not all mind you; but now the government turns on them, not requiring them for dirty work at present,-the famine being a far quicker and more effectual agent,-and kicks them into the poor house, and while Lord John Russell is spouting in the British House of Commons about political economy, the 'imes newspa- per is making minute' calculations as to the time it will take, with the Encumbered Estates Court, and the famine, to uproot the Celtic race from Ireland, Then we are to have the millennium there, in the shape of English land- lords, Durham cattle, and Scotch agriculturists! But bide- a-wee, gentlemen, the Irish Celtic blood is prolific, and while your Saxon and Norman blood is growing stagnant, it is run- ning in wild waves 9ver the earth. '"I am quite frightened at all this, Emily," said Rose, " not knowin g how soon Henry will have to go to Ireland,-at such a time, too." 32   w*U      THE. DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "We were just speaking of you when you came in," re. , plied Emily, and I may as well confess, H-enry, that I was almost wishing you would give up the idea of purchasing : back Dalystown."  "I thought as much" lie replied, "from the few words I overheard, as I came in. Shanme on you, sister, but let me : hear no such wishes, now that the prize I have toilel for,  those many years, is within my grasp. Ah, nmily, I once  thougrht that should I ever be returning to claim back the old place, I would have to hide you in my portmanteau, if Edward refused you leave to accompany me."  "Indeed, Henry, i love the old place as well as ever, "But," said lie finishing the sentence for her, as he raised  one of her children in his arms, "where our treasure is, there the heart is likewise." "You have come to spend the day with us?" said Edward. "No ; I must return immediately, as I have letters to write. I only came to tell you this Irisl news which has fretted and worried me, an/d I thought that the walk and a few round curses at things in general, would do me good. From   my soul I synlpathize with Smith O'Brien and the kindred spirits engaged with him. Their generous, chival- rous natures have been chafed into an act which their calmer judgments would have shown them to be hopeless, at the present time. They will be sacrificed; the country, just now, is not worthy of theln. Edward, I would give half my ibortune to hlave them here this moment." "But the peoplle, Henr-y, may answer their brave appeal and lrise," said E-.lward. "'The people!" replied Tenry, bitter]y, , whlere are they . Filling the grave-pits of poor houses, feeding the lfamisled logs in the churcllyard of Skibbereen, the survivors look- ngr on withl Iack-llstre, lhardened eyes. 'Thle and is plague- trucl, Edward. No, 1no, they wTill be defeated vithout a trurgle; and then, when the bloodhounds of the law are tunting then to deathl, every govrelrnmen t hack Wvho can cribble a  line will assail theni with ridicule, a sharp weapon to wound a high and sensitive mind, despise we ever so such the hand that flings it. Where is Captain Thompson ."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      493 "The boys coaxed him out to fish with them,'9 replied Emily. W"Well, as I cannot remain, will you come over to supper and bring the captain along with you? Give him my com- pliments and tell him that if he would not have me choke with bile, he will comte over this evening to spin me a good long Yankee yarn of how they whipped the Britishers.'" Edward and his wife accompanied Henry and Rose a hllort distance on their way home. Walking between the rows of trees that lined their path, whilst the apple blossoms shook perfume around, they seemed more like lovers, still, than staid married folks. l2here was none of the neglectful, loitering step of matrimony about any of them. Of the four, Henry was ithe most changed; sun and wind had. browned his cheek, his forehead was not as smooth as it was twenty years ago, and gray hairs were scattered through the brown ones. But all these took not from his. good looks. The softness of youth had indeed fled, giving place to healthy manhood; but of the two, the character of his features had improved; there was more self-reliance and firmness in his face than of old. And she who walked by liis side'? Ah, even old Father Time seemed to be touched by such exquisite beauty as her's ancd firbore to lay his ]land roughly upon it. There was no dimness in those liquid-eyes, no lines on that fair forehead, and perhaps the ,greatest difference between the maid and. miatron, was, that her carriage was more stately, her every motion more swanlike in its grace. Edward had become a strong man, but his features still retained :a very youthful look, and as for Emnily, fairy, sy]pll- like Emily, her attempt to do the matron seemed yet re-, diculous. She and Edward had been laughing and romping withl eaclh other for the last fifteen years or so. As child- ren grew around then, they were taklen into the play, and Elnily bids fair to have a game with her grand,.hildren. Although, from this out, Henry waited, ill the greatest anxiety, a letter from 1Mr. Carroll, whllich would u mmon him to Ireland, to purchase backl his ancestral property, months elapsed without his receiving any such. The trulthl was, so many properties were crowded into the Encumber-   "4      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN, ed Estates Court, on its first opening, that, for some time, Tim O'Roarke's creditors had not room to drag him and his shattered fortunes before the court. During those months, Henry saw, with a sad heart, his prophecy fulfilled. " Law and order" had triumphed in Ireland. "Her gracious majesty" had made a speech to her assem- bled Parliament, in which she eulogized her faithful, loving subjects (!) in Ireland, and the said faithful subjects were now enjoying the fruits of their loyalty in her majesty's poor houses and jails. Nothing could be more satisfactory than all this! Smith O'Brien and his colleagues were on board of an English man of war on their way to a p enal settlement, bear- ing with them the soul of Ireland, and she lay a corpse at the feet of her enemy. Was not her cup filled to overflowing ? No, by the rights of kings, no! She must appear to the world to glory in her shame; her skeletons must be galvanized, and made to shout and dance before their Royal mistress. In the mean- time a high commissioner has been sent amongst them. Who is he? By Bacchus, a right jovial fellow; no other than a royal cook, the immortal Soyer. His commission ? To show how easy it is to feed an Irish pauper. The fellow who once undertook to make stone soup, if he got a knuckle of beef to flavorit with, was nothing to Soyer. Soyer can make soup of the stone alone, and an English and Irish nobility muster strong, in carriages, to witness his success. He and his attendants stand up, like the witches in Macbeth, round a mighty cauldron,-the soup is ready, Lady Splat-- terdash is presented with a spoonful, she touches it with the tip of her tongue and declares it delicious. Oh! that I had the feeding of your ladyship for one month, on such diet! Then the paupers are marclled, in their rags, to partake of the sumptuous repast prepared for them-marched to the sound of music, for the royal band has struck up--what?  It should be "' Rule Britannia,"  you will say. No, my coun- trymen, it is ~" Patrick's Day!"  Oh ! my countrymnen,-you who have been regenerated by the baptism of freedom-- you citizens of the United States,-those men, whose squalid   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     xtow misery was thus mocked, were your countrymen, the air to which their tottering steps were made to keep time, was your national air! Play it not,-walk not in procession on Patrick's Day, with arms in your hands-before your brother freemen, if you forget these things. At length the letter, summoning Henry to Ireland, arriv- ed. Mr. Carroll also forwarded a newspaper, in which there was an advertisement, announcing the sale of Dalys- town. Henry read it with an agitated countenance. ', How often, Rose," he said, " have you told me,in those years past, that I murmured in my sleep of again returning. But it is no Ionger a dream, but a reality, bright as the eves of my singing bird! Dalystown could be purchased for me in my absence, but I would like better, love, to take posses- sion -to enter as master-to stand once more on the thresh- hold of my old home, and give one look of triumph around. By the date of this advertisement, I see I have not much time to lose in setting out. But what is this " he said, glancing at another part of the paper. "As I live, the Queen has been to Ireland?"Then he continued reading to himself, while his face grew crimson with passion, and, flinging the paper on the ground, he trampled it under his foot. "Curse you!-curse you, vile rabble?" he exclaimed. "What has happened, Henry?)" said his wife, alarmed at his violence. h"It seems, love," he answered, " the English government knew those people better than Smith O'Brien did. There is not time for his footprints to be effaced from Irish soil, when they bring their mistress there, and a Dublin rabble throw up their greasy caps, welcoming her with shouts ;*and a mob of deputy lieutenants, sheriffs, mayors, and alder- men-mav the devil confound the vermin-vie with the dir- tier-no, they could not be dirtier-but worse clad rabble, in running after her carriage, and tainting the air with their foul breaths. Heavens! Though these men were lost to all shame, respect, and decency, could not their instinct tell them that the blood of the royal lady would curdle with disdain, at the homage of such slaves! Rose," he con- tinued, as he flung himself into a chair, and his head sank in bitter humiliation, " this is enough to make a man for- swear his country."   ;496     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. Since her marriage, Rose had never seen her husband so agitated. Almost fiightened, she had remained silent, but now, when he raised his eyes to her face and said, t" tell me now, Rose, to remain, and I will do so," she was far from wishing to take advantage of the bitter passion which agitat- ed him, to induce him to abandon that which, Ior nearly twenty years, had been his daily thought and nightly dream. '"No, Henry," she replied, " you are unjust to our poor country. Remember, Dublin is not all Ireland. Who are these men, at best, but what you have called them,-a rab- ble, a city rabble? You will find in Ireland, yet, honest, true hearts, mourning for those who have been torn from her. You have often told me, love, that poverty will break the spirit, even of the bravest; therefore, though our poor country may not mourn aloud, ah, believe me she weeps for the brave and true, by many a lowly hearth."' Her sweet voice fell gratefully on his ear, calming down his passion. Giving her a proud, fond look, he replied, "You are ever just and wise, my Rose. Yes, let them make the most of it; after all, they are but the scourings of a city who have acted thus." "And why not despise such, Henry, rather than let them disturb you so ." "Despise, Rose," he replied, "Oh, no linguist's plummet could ever sound the depth of my profound contempt for them! Neverthe!less, Rose, rontemptible as they are, this act of theirs is the crowning infamy to the darkest and most terrible drama which has ever been enacted in Ireland. It stands out like the lean dog in Hogarth's graphic pictures,- hungry for a bone. There may be, as you sav, a pure stream still in Ireland, but this scum is all that is now visible, and it will take a century to remove the stain which its slime is leaving after it.' "Henry, God will right all this in his own good time; let us trust in him." "Aye," lie replied, " in the God of battles-the God of vengeance as of mercy." By degrees, Rose soothed his chafed spirit, and got him to think of that which more immediately concerned him- self:   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     497 "When will you have to leave us, Henry'?" she asked. "To be in time for the sale, I must be in Ireland by the middle of next month, love," he replied.-"The sale of Dalys. town, and Henry Daly declared the purchaser! Oh! Rose, that hour will repay me for all my toil and long waiting. For the future, Rose, we shall have two countries, for I am resolved never to part wth this place." "Oh, not for worlds, Henry," she replied. "Think of the happy years we have spent in it." "Aye, love," he answered, " wherever our future may be, our hearts will ever warm to Yankee Doodle." CHAPTER XXXVII. As the day drew near on which the commissioners were to sell, in their court, in Henrietta street, Dublin, the Dalys- town property, an acquaintance of Mr. Carroll's called at the attorney's office, to make enquiries relative to the prop- erty, knowing that, in former years, he had been the solici- tor through whose hands it had passed from the Daly fami- ly. He found Mr. Carroll in the very best of humors. After they had conversed for some time, the gentleman said, "Do you know any person who intends bidding for it?' I suppose it will go for a song." "Well," replied Carroll, "I don't know but that if I see it going for what you say, I may strike up a stav myself. What would you say to a daet? I should think that our voices are about equally bad. The commissioners .4night knock either ourselves or the property down, to stop us, and he walked about the office, rubbing his hands, and seem- ingly quite tickled with his own wit.   "8      THE DALYS OP DALYSTOWN. "Ah, Oarroll," said the gentleman, " you attorneys are all in good humor now; these are glorious times for'your profession." "To be sure they are," he replied. "When the eagle is dead, the vulture feeds. But I must be off; you'll excuse me." "Going down to court?" asked the other. "No, I am going to spend the day at Kingstown. Splendid weather for taking a walk on the pier, and seeing the pack- et coming in. Jennings (to his clerk) when I am gone, lock up the office and give yourself a holiday." The visitor opened his eyes, as he remarked, " a solicitor giving his clerk a holiday, these time%, is rather unusual." "(My friend," said Mr. Carroll, "I will be very much -dis- appointed if this day does not turn out about the happiest one in my life, therefore I intend marking it with red chalk; that is, putting a little red into Jennings' cheeks, so come along, you, to smell old musty parchment, in the offices of the Encumbered Estates Court, and I, to take a sniff of the sea." "The sea, the sea,-the free unbounded sea," sang Mr. Carroll, as he took his hat from the rack. When he turned round, his visitor was regarding him with such a surprised air, that he shook with laughter. "Don't, don't be afraid, my friend," he said, as well as his mirth would allow him, I'm not getting mad. Attor- neys never go mad,-a beautiful dispensation of Providence! What would become of the community if they did, for every second man you meet has been bitten by one or other of them." In an hour after, Mr. Carroll found himself on the pier of Kingstown. At the hour he arrived it wag deserted, save by a few idle boatmen, who sat or lounged about the stone steps leading to the water. On the gentleman's approach they all jumped up, exclaiming, " boat your honor." "Af you're taking the missus and the young ladies, sir, over to see the frigate," commenced one of them, when he was Interrupted by another with-- ("Hold your tongue; listen to the way he talks to the jon- tleman, as af he had his family, like his pocket hankerchy, rowled up in his pocket. Af you're going on the water, sir, there you are."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      429 "Don't look at her, sir; bad 'cess to me, but af you do, she'll make you saysick. But there's a clipper, your honor, handy, at the steps." Mr. Carroll assured them n that he did not require their services, whereupon, the professional badinage ceased. "I wonder," thought Mr. Carroll, as he walked up and down the pier, " if we will recognize each other. Of the two, I must be the more changed. Well, twenty years must have altered us both, but I feel assured that I will know him." By degrees, parties of twos and threes came strolling down to the piers, and as the hour lor the arrival of the Liverpool packet approached, it became crowded with the fashionables of Kingstown and Dublin. At length the pack- et was sighted, and Mr. Carroll watched her approach in nervous anxiety. As she neared the pier, he strained his eyes to try if he could recognize, on her deck, the person whom he waited for. There was a tall form standing apart from the others, on the quarterdeck, gazing on the land they were approaching, could it be himl As the vessel came alongside, in the confusion which followed, Mr. Carroll lost sight of this person, but when the gangway was run out, he placed himself at one end of it, to watch the pas- sengers, as they passed out. First came a little fat man, puffing and trotting, then a very tall, thin man, then a young lady, then an old lady and a parrot, with a strong family likeness to each other; but none of these were like his friend. Then there was a rush, and Mr. Carroll was be- ginning to fear that the person for-whom he waited might have passed him unobserved, when he saw the same gen- tleman whom he had noticed-on the quarter-deck, approach the gangway. He had a foreign air, his face was browned, and he wore a large moustache. "No matter," thought the attorney, cI know his proud eye," and rushing forward, he seized the strangers hand, just as the foot of the latter touched the shore. , Welcome i" he exclaimed, " a thousand welcomes. Wel- come once more to Ireland. Don't you know me?" "It would be hard to forget so good a friend," said Henry Daly, returning the warm pressure of the other's hand.   " My dear Mr. Carroll, how kind of you to come to meet me on my landing. How are you, my dear friend ?" " Ten years younger from seeing you b'acl again," replied the attorney. " Yes," said Henry Daly, " my foot is, once more, on Irish Those who were near enough to overhear what he said, turned round and looked at him. " Speak low, my friend," said Carroll, who spoke quite loud himself, ," of those good people will say you are Tone resuscitated. D-n me, I don't know but that it is treason, nowadays, to say one has his foot on the ground. Come," he continued, taking Daly's arm, and hurrying him to the railway station, while two porters followed after with the baggage, " I long to have you to myself; you are to'dine with me. Not a word; mine must be the first house that you enter. I have a thousand things to say to yoil to ask you,-a theus and   warnings to give you ; oh we'll surprise some people Get in, the train will start in a moment, and now once more you are welcome," and he again shook Henry's hand, as they took their seats in the railway car. " You  will pardon me," said Henry, "if I do not appear as grateful as I really am for your warm welcome home; but, as yet, I feel like one in a dream , in  which forms and things pass in a confused medley before him." " Of course," replied his friend, " I know pretty well the wIay you must feel." "I have to thank you, t-)o, at a  more fitting time, for the honorable interest you took in my affairs, when I was far "Well," replied the attorney, I do give myself credit for the way matters were manageed. You are a lucky man, Mr. Daly. When most of the others are losing their prop- erties, you are about to get backi yours. But it m ust not be known that you are here to bid for it, or O'Roarke's creditors would put it up to a  high figure. Y ou m ust re- main incog. until after the sale'" "There is little fear, I think, of my being recognized. I never had an extensive acquaintance in Dublin." "No matter for that, there are plenty of your country    friends in town. They have come up to witness their speedy ruin, by this new court; for landed property, at present, is of no value in Ireland, and, in no instance, have I seen a surplus coming to the owner after the sale." When the two friends reached Dublin, Mr. Carroll would have Henry Daly put up at his house during his stay, but this the latter declined doing, so they drove, in the first instance, to an hotel, and then to Mr. Carroll's house. "I need not be particular about my toilet," said Henry, "as you are still a bachelor." "Yes, Mr. Daly," replied the other, " a confirmed bach- elor. I was not rich enough, when young, to take a wife, and I am not fool enough to do so now that I am old." The solicitor was very anxious that his client should not appear in court during the sale of Dalystown, lest some of those interested might recognize him, but Henry had made up his mind to be present, and all that he could be got to promise was, that he would allow his friend to bid for him. On the day of sale, the latter would, by no means, be seen entering the court with Henry. So when the attorney had bustled in and taken his seat amongst his professional breth- ren, Henry followed after and took his seat at the lurther end of the court. As there were two properties to be sold before the Da- lystown one, he had plenty of time to make his observa- tions on the scene before him. At first it was nothing more than a confused crowd of business men, running in and out, with red-taped bundles of papers under their arms, one or the other of whom was continually addressing the court, in what, to Henry, was almost unintelligible jargon; but by- and bye the different features in this scene became more distinct. Here- was the dandified, smirking, commlssioner's clerk, sitting under the bench; presently he jumps up, turning his head to one side, like a contemplative magpie, whilst' one of the commissioners whispers to him; then, as he as- sumes his seat, he gives the attorneys' clerks around a look, which says, you see what an intimate footing we are on. Here was the learned counsel, who, in scratching his head, had misplaced his wig, so that it would likely have fallen   502      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. off, had it not got a rest on the tip of his Roman nose; he sits listlessly playing with the strings of his bag; the law of this court is but a bagatelle to him, while his eyes are directed towards the ceiling, as if contemplating a flight of John Does and Richard Roes. Here was the wiry-haired, ter- rier-like attorney's clerk, giving a flippant, careless answer to the pale, care-worn man who has just asked him a ques- tion, and whose patrician features and gentlemanly bearing, savor of the castle-though a ruined one-a mile off. Poor gentleman!-so cowed down is he; so totally out of his el- ement here, that with nerve which would bring him to the cannon's mouth, he yet fears, in this motley crowd, to raise his voice, and when he does find courage to make a remark aloud, on seeing his property about to be confiscated before his eyes, his interference is deemed officious by all present, down to the wiry-haired attorney's clerk. And here was the fat, purse-proud grazier, and tie pomp- ous grocer, feeling frightfully uncomfortable in their new clothes; the grazier driving the nails of his thumb into the table before him, as he is in the habit of treating the backs of the sheep, and the grocer looking down every moment at his new black satin waistcoat, fearing to find a spot of molasses on it. These two persons are treated with great respect, both by the attorneys and the terriers, for they are here to buy portions of the poor gentleman's property. After a little bidding and a good deal of laughter, set ago- ing by a heavy attempt at wit, on the part of the heaviest of the commissioners, the poor gentleman is ruined, and another property set up and knocked- down with the like satisfactory result, as regards its owner, and then the lands and demesne of Dalystown were set up, to be sold to the high- est bidder. As Henry Daly heard the name mentioned he could not restrain a start, which was noticed by a grayheaded old man, who had entered the court a short time before, and who had kept his eyes fixed on Daly ever since. This was no other than our old acquaintance, Lyons; for as Patrick sat in high places, "to show how good a thing it is to serve the Lord," so did Lyons still sit amongst attorneys, to show how good a thing it is to serve the ---   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      503 l By G---- , muttered Lyons, "I think it is him; but no, I would have heard something of his coming. And there is Carroll,-if this was Daly he would be with him. If I thought he had come back to buy the property, I would salt it on him, and save the last two thousand I1 lent that blasted fool, Tim. Is there no one I can ask?." At this moment Mr. Carroll approached near to where Lyons sat; the latter caught him by the skirt of the coat. "What do you want?" said Carroll, turning round. "Do you know of any one who is going to bid?" asked Lyons. "Why do you ask?" "Because some one told me that Daly had come back to buy the property." "Ah, poor fellow, when last I heard of him, he was lying at death's door, in New Orleang." "Then, by G-, that's his ghost." "Where?" said Carroll, seemingly in great surprise. "There, on the back seat," replied Lyons. "My good sir," replied the other, " don't you know who that is? That's Count Pollywasy, the great Polish traveler. You do not mix in good society, Lyons, or you would have met him before this." This raised a laugh against Lyons, and Carroll's acting was so admirably cool that the former was quite deceived by it. The bidding now commenced, and, after a short time, Mr. Carroll was declared the purchaser. "Have you purchased in trust, Mr. Carroll?. asked the chief commissioner, Baron Richards. "4 Yes, my lord." "Then ipease to sign the book. H-and Mr. Carroll the ";As the gentleman for whom I made the purchase, is present,.had he not better sign himself?" said the solicitor., ' Oh, certainly," replied the commissioner. Mr. Carroll beckoned to Henry. His tall figure, gentlemanly air, and foreign look, caused a little excitement as he approached to where the clerk held the book open. There was a crushing, and a straining of necks as he wrote, with a steady hand, "Henry Daly."   604      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "I knew it," said Lyons, drawing back. "Why did I not believe my own eyes, instead of that fellow, and his d--d Count Pollywasy." There was quite a buzz amongst those acquainted with the property, when Henry wrote his name. Baron Rich- ards asked to see the book. '"Daly," he said, ' why, that was the name of the family to whom this property formerly belonged." "And I have great pleasure, my lord,"' replied Mr. Car- roll, "in presenting to you the representative of that an- cient family, Mr. Henry Daly, come back to claim his own again." The commissioner rose from his seat and shook hands with Henry. i' I congratulate you, Mr. Daly," he said. We seldom have an opportunity of witnessing a happy occurrence of this kind. I congratulate you in all sincerity." Henry then turned and gave a warm shake hands to his good friend, Mr. Carroll, after which, many of those present tendered to him their congratulations. But he longed to be alone. Beneath a calm exterior, there were feelings that he found it difficult to suppress; therefore, leaving his solicitor in conversation with the clerk, he hurried from the court. Lyons had preceded Henry, and now waited for him, in the passage leading out. The latter had not noticed him before, but the moment he approached, his face wearing its old cringing smile, he at once recognized him. "How do you do, my dear sir," said Lyons. "I am de- lighted to see you at home again, and in possession of your property. We are friends, I hope, Mr. Daly '? and the fel- low stuck out his hand. "Let me pass, old man," said Henry. Lyons heard a titter behind him, from .some persons who had witnessed his reception. It angered him and made him forget who it was he confronted. "I want to make soine enquiries of you, sir," lie replied, "about my nephew, that you kidnapped out of the country, years ago." "Murderer of my father," exclaimed Henry Daly, in a   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN      505 burst of ungovernable passion, " out of my way, or I'll tram- ple you under foot," and, flinging Lyons against the wall, he passed out into the open air. "I thought,' he said to himself, as he traversed the street, with rapid steps, " to be at peace, to-day, with all men." When he reached his hotel, he passed quickly through the hall, inor stopped until he reached his own private room. Entering, he shut the door and drew from his bosom, a min- iature; as he gazed upon it, tears started from his eyes and ran down his sunburnt cheeks. "Oh, father-father!" he exclaimed, " had you but lived to see this day 1" CHAPTER XXXVIII. On the evening of the second day after Henry Daly had purchased back his family property, he set out, on horse- back,' from the town of T--, on his way to Dalystown. In two days from this,. the slerift was, to give him formal possession, but he resolved that his first visit to his old home should be made alone, and before his presence in the neigh- borhood had become known. From time to time, he reined up his horse to look around on the familiar landscape, changed but little in the years that had passed, save that it now wore a desolate look.- Not a living thing was to be seen in the fields or along the road he traveled. But those halts were short, for his heart was throbbing wildly to again behold his home. The next rising ground would bring him close to where the demesne wall commenced, and in full view of the place. Driving the spurs into his horse's sides, he galloped forward,   606 .     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. reached the top of the hill, and there, in the calm light of evening, lay the old place, stretched out before him ; the crows wheeling round, and the gray turrets and gables peep. ing through the trees. Henry paused but to take one glance, and then dashed forward again. How wonderful and mysterious is the mechanism of the human heart, how finely connected its many chords! Touch but one rudely, and all its music jars. But a moment before, Henry Daly could have shouted, in very joy, but now, as he stopped before the entrance to his home, the look of neglect and desolation which the place wore, filled him with a sudden, indescribable gloom,-that unaccountable sadness which frequently accompanies the realization of our hopes. The rusty gate, broken off its hinges, the empty gate-house, the grass-grown avenue-all these could be easily set to right again, and were not, in themselves, sufficient to account for the reaction which he felt, but they had struck a chord, and his whole soul vibrat- ed with thoughts of the past--of things and beings that could never be restored. Dismounting from his horse, he led him up the avenue, and when he came opposite the house, he left him tied by the rein to a tree, and advanced with a hurried step. A half shutter of one of the parlor windows was open, and, placing his face close to the glass, he peered into the room. It was entirely empty of furniture. The oil paint on the walls was the same, the polished oak wainscotting still re- mained, but, from dampness, a portion of the ceiling had fallen down, and the floor was covered with rubbish. But what gave the room its most desolate, cold look, was, that the ample grate had been torn from its setting and carried away, leaving a dark, cave-like opening, while the top slab of the marble mantle piece, lay broken in two across the hearth. Altogether, it was the personification of a deserted hearth, and, with a deep sigh, Henrv turned away. "I cannot,"' he murmured, " with that cold, dead look around it, picture it to myself as it was of old." It was a relief to turn to the wide park, for here, at least, he was rejoiced to see no change. After a little, he again   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     507: turned to the house and endeavored to open the hall door but it was locked; he then entered the yard. Here again, the evidence of decay smote upon his heart; its pavement, once kept polished by the tramp of many feet, was now of a dry grayish- white, with tufts of moss and wild grass scattered here and there; some of the roofs of the offices. had fallen in and many of them were without doors or windows. Henry went over to where the horse block still! stood and sat down upon it. "For twenty years," he said, "surrounded by all that should make me happy, I have sighed for the hour in which I should again behold you! Why then is it with sadness alone that you now fill my heart?" Lost in reverie, he took no heed of time, so that it was almost dark before he arose and proceeded to where he had left his horse. While Henry was sitting in the yard a man crossed the park towards the house; seeing the horse tied, he stopped and looked at him, then he went over, walked round the animal, examined the saddle and bridle, and having satis- fied himself that he was unacquainted, both with the horse and his trappings, he said: "There's a stranger looking at the old place." Then he commenced patting and speaking to the horse, and seeing that the animal was endeavoring to put down his head to the grass he untied the rein, saying' Poor beast, I'll hold you and let you take a bit of the green grass." Throwing himself at full length on the ground, it seemed to give him thmost lively pleasure to watch the hungry horse grazing(r,nd thus he remained until Henry arose to leave the yard. The stillness around, and the position of the man's ear, close to the ground, made the sound of the visitor's foosteps audible, even before he had left the yard. The man at first started as if about to rise, but in the next moment he had thrown himself flat upon his face, remain- ing as immovable as if he had fallen dead. Tramp-tramp, sounded the steps through the deserted yard! 33   508      THE DALYS OF DALYSTU W N. "It's himself," shouted the man, springing up. "Alanah- alanah machree, where-where are you? Henry was not slow to recognize that faithful voice. "Here, Tom," he exclaimed, running forward, "here my poor faithful fellow," and in a moment after Tom Gallaher fell sobbing at his feet. Disengaging Tom's hands that were twined around him, Henry raised his old servitor in his arms, and thus encour- aged, Tom looked into his face, and with a gush of affection, kissed him on both cheeks. Then he danced round him, fondled him, rubbed down his clothes with both hands, all the time addressing to him the most endearing and child- like epithets. It was long before he got sobered down so that Henry could speak to him. "Tom, it is getting late," he said, " we must leave this now, I am going over to the Grove to-night, but in two days' time we shall return here and you need never leave the old place again. It is mine now, Tom; mine," he repeated, looking proudly round. Tom remained for a little while silent; he was endeav- oring to comprehend all this; then peering into, his com- panion's face, and pointing to the house now looming indis- tinctly through the fading light, he said- "And will it be, Master Henry, as of old?" Henry laid his hand kindly on his shoulder: "To you, Tom, I hope it may." "See now, I know by your voice, that I brought the sor- rowful thought to you, and I mind what it is, Master Henry. All the money they say you made in furrin jarts, can nev- er bring back the old master to us again.'; Henry was deeply moved, as he replied. o: We will still love the old place, Tom, because he loved it." "And Miss Emily, Master Henry?" a She will come here some day, Tom, and you will see her." "Why didn't she come with you?" "You know, Tom, that she is married." "So they told me, long ago, but I misremembered it." "Come now, Tom," said Henry, "I will mount, and you will trot by my side, as you used to do, in times gone by."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     509' Tom ran and held the stirrup for Henry, as he mounted, and when the latter gave him one of his old smiles, the poor fellow became intoxicated with joy, and his hand shook so that Henry found it difficult to get -his foot into the stirrup. "You are out of practice, Master Tom," he said, in his cheerful tone, so like his old self, as Tom afterwards said, that Tom's hand shook twice as much. "Oh, murder!" he said, "if this is one of them dreams that do be deluding me, it would kill me out and out to waken." "No fear, no fear, Tom," replied Henry. c I'll engage you never dreamed that," and he knocked Tom's hat down over his eyes. It was an excellent way of convincing him of the reality of his present happiness, for a thousand times had Henry played the same trick upon him. Tom pulled the hat off, waved it over his head, and giving a loud tallyho, headed the horse down the avenue. But, in a moment afterwards, he was back again at his master's side, looking up into his face, and giving child-like laughs. Then he commenced telling Henry different circumstances which had occurred in his absence. "And sure they told me," I he said, " that the place was Tim O'Roarke's; and sure enough that villain of an attorney, his uncle, kern here one day and told me he didn't want me about the place at all, and I ups and tells him I'd a bet- ter right to be in it than himself, and then he raised his whip, but I tuck a two year old stone in the heel of my fist, and af it wasn't for thim that were present, I'd mark him so that rd know him again. He brought me before the coort for it, but the doctor, glory be to his bed this night, kern with me, and all the gentlemen tuck my part. Old Mr. Warburton-God rest his soul-told him he ought to be ashamed of himself, and faith he went away lewd enough; and never put to me, or from me, ever after. Indeed I did'nt keep much in his way, for it used to hurt my eyes to see him near the place at all, at all."  "Was Tim O'Roarke often down here, Tom?" asked Henry. "Never a one of him kem, but seldom; and I'll tell no lies,   510      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. whenever I met him he spoke civil enough to myself, and told me I was welcome to come whenever I liked." "He will not be sorry for that, Tom," replied Henry. As they went up the Grove avenue Tom slipped away to announce his master's approach. Charles Kelly, whom Henry had left a boy, now a married man, and owner of the Grove, hurried out to meet him. Most cordial was the greeting between the two friends. "Why did you not let us know of your coming?" said Charles Kelly, as he conducted his friend into the house. "I had a letter from- Mr. Carroll, conveying the good news, but he did not say that you intended coming down so soon. I was not looking for you before next week." "I wished to take you all by surprise, Charles." "And a most joyful one you have given to us," answered the other. After Henry had been introduced to Mrs. Kelly, he look- ed around the room. It was the same in which he had spent so many pleasant evenings with the old doctor. The fur- niture remained the same and it wore its old familiar look. Henry sank into a chair and shaded his face with his hand; Charles Kelly approached him. "' You miss him, Henry," he said. "I do, I do," he replied. "Alas! that he to whom I owe all is not here to welcome me back." "Come with me," said his friend, and he led him into the study, where a full-length portrait of the old man hung on the wall. "The last time that he returned from Dublin," said his grandson, " he brought this down with him. Hang it up there, Charley," he said, and when Henry Daly returns-he always spoke of your doing so, with the greatest confidence -bring him in here to look at it." Henry endeavored to speak, but there was a choking sensation about his throat that prevented him. "I wrote to you, Henry, an account of his happy death," continued Charles, "but there. was a circumstance con- nected with it, which, though making a lasting impression on those present, could not well be mentioned in a letter. Up to the last moment he retained his senses, and spoke to   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     5" us tranquilly, nay cheerfully. He had given orders that all who wished to bid him farewell should be admitted to his room, and there was a levee of mourners passing in and out during the entire day, but not one third of those who crowded round the house could be admitted. They en- deavored to make as little noise as possible; but the low tones, the stifled sobs of such a concourse, came distinct and loud through the open window. The doctor in atten- dance wished to put a stop to this, and spoke to me about having the people moved to a distance from the house; grandfather overheard him, and beckoned me over to his side. "t Charley," he said, "do not allow the people to be re- moved; their grief disturbs me not; it is more soothing than the doctor's stuff. It is sweet, my boy, to know, at such an hour, that human hearts, above all, the hearts of the lowly and poor, mourn for us.   C "No one was present when he took leave of grand- mamma, but on our return to the room they were convers- ing in low tones. Grandmamma's face wore a calm, resigned look, and during the three years which she survived him, the expression that then became stamped on her features scarce ever altered a shade. I overheard her say to grand- father, in reply to something he had whispered to her, Iyes, James, I will wait patiently, until it pleases God to. call upon me. He never spoke after this but once and then occurred the circumstance I alluded to just now." "Tell it to me, Charley," said Henry, in a low voice. "We were standing round his bed, waiting for the mo- ment of his departure, when suddenly he opened his eyes. Henry, before this, and before he had closed them, we re- marked the film of death gathering over them, but now they were bright, joyfully bright. Then, in a clear, dis- tinct voice, he called upon the name of Jesus, and so ex- pired. I have never spoken of this outside my own family, except to you, but, in our own family circle, we believe, that even before his death, grandfather caught a reflection of the glory that awaited him." Thus, standing before his likeness, Henry Daly listened to an account of the death of his old and true friend, and   D1;z     THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. the strong nran, his feelings subdued, hushed, by the recital. wept in silence. It was late that night when the two friends parted. Henry, indeed, was already acquainted with most of what his friend had to tell him, for he had met James and Fred- erick Kelly in Dublin, the former now a barrister, and the latter a medical student; little Fanny, too, was married and living with her husband in Dublin. "I never thought, Charles," said Henry, "how old I had become, until I saw Fanny a married woman. And so Anthony O'Kelly is still a bachelor, and Patrick and Mi. chael gone to Australia.' "Yes," replied Charles, "But if seeing Fanny made you feel old, a sight of Anthony will surely have a contrary ef- fect. He is just the same. Idon't think," he continued, laughing, " that he got a day older since you were here." "How is he circumstanced?" asked Henry. S' Oh, he is well enough off, for a bachelor," replied the other. 'tHe is not in debt. At his father's death there were no incumbrances on the property, save the younger children's portions. After Patrick and Michael were some time in Australia, they sent Anthony a full release for these." "They were always well united brothers," said Henry. "But I must tell you that they did this in a very wise way, for they wrote to Anthony, saying they presented him with their claims, in order that he, the head of their house, should be unembarrassed, and .they expected him to remain so. Now, this prevents Anthony from running into debt, for he deems that he is bound, in honor, to keep the property clear." "Like O'Kelly," said Henry. "This will be more bind- ing on him than a code of laws. We must make an early start, to-morrow, for Crearen. I would have written to An- thony, but Carroll would pot allow me to communicate with any one, lest it might leak out that I was about to purchase the property." "Well, we'll have glorious fun," replied the other. "If Anthony has not read an account of the sale in the papers, he cannot fail to hear of it by to-morrow; as you say, we will make an early start, and surprise him."   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.      513 "The sheriff, I hope, will meet me here on the day after to- morrow, to go with me to Dalystown, to give possession. I cannot tell you, Charles, the pleasure it gave me to see, by the rent-roll, that many of the old tenants still remain on the property. I feared that I would have found them all exterminated." "Those of them that remain, Henry, you will find in a very wretched condition." "Oh, no doubt, but. a little raises a poor man; and, much or little, I will raise them. But it seems Tim O'Roarke fol- lowed not in his father's footsteps, or they would have been hunted away years ago.'" "He certainly," replied Kelly, " never evinced any incli- nation to tyrannize, and I believe Lyons, while acting as his agent, found it more profitable to let them remain, as he was continually extorting money from them. You know that Tim never lived in the place,--that for some years it has been out of his possession, altogether, with a receiver over it; for, between his own foolish extravagance, and his uncle's management, Tim squandered, in a few years, the ample means left to him by his fattier." "Lyons will lose thousands, that he first robbed him of, and then lent back to him." "I cannot say I am sorry for it," said Henry. "O'Roarke and he are hot friends, I hear." "No," replied Charles Kelly, 4not for some years back; even Tim had brains enough to learn that Lyons had fooled and robbed him. Did you meet O'Roarke in Dublin?" "No, I hear - the unfortunate fellow is in prison for some trifling debt. I intend, on my return to Dublin, to go see him. I must tell you, Charles, a plan I have formed rela- tive to him. You know that, in all probability, had any other person become the purchaser of Dalystown, I would have found it difficult, perhaps impossible, to get it back, even though I should be willing to pay far more than the value for it; but Tim's folly, and the deplorable state of the country, have thrown it into my hands, for one third of its value. This being the case, I can afford to be generous, and I intend settling on Tim an annuity, which will keep him from want."   514      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "This is, indeed, generous of you," said Kelly. "I think, Charles, it is only just," replied Henry. ' His father, you will remember, gave a large sum for the proper- ty, I have got it back for much less, so I owe Tim some- thing. That is the way to look at it, and the way I intend putting it to O'Roarke, for I don't want to play Lord Boun- tiful, or to hurt his feelings by having him to suppose him- self merely a pensioner on my generosity." And here I may as well inform the reader that Henry Daly fully carried out his intentions towards O'Roarke, and Tim is as happy, perhaps happier, than he ever was. He has no care, and can dress well; by this, I mean that he can afford to wear showy waistcoats and scarfs; for as to dress- ing like a gentleman, that is out of the question, although much of his fortune has been wasted in the-attempt. Tim's former career, although foolish in the extreme, was far from being vicious, he was neither a gambler or a drunkard. He did, to be 'sure, give champagne suppers to officers and fast men,-devilish fast, for they disappeared like a flash, when the suppers were all eaten,-and got laughed at in return; but this is all past now, and since Tim's fast pace has chang- ed into a pleasant, lounging gait, he has become inti- mate in almost all the boarding houses in Dublin. He drops into one or other of them continually on evenings, to tell the old ladies, laid up there in dock, the light news that is continually flying about the Irish metropolis. This embraces a very wide field of gossip, for there is a connection between all classes in Dublin, and poor Mrs. Clancy of Petticoat lane, while buying her pound of bro- ken meat, is posted up on what the Lord Lieutenant gave Lord Howth and Bishop Whately for dinner, the last day that thev dined at the Viceregal Lodge. Nevertheless, Dub- lin is lamentably deficient in scandal, which gives such piquant flavor to the gossip's dish; for it is a moral city,  not in outward show but in reality, and in the place of scan- dal, there is a rich vein of humor, of sparkling wit, that makes Dublin gossip delightful to all except to ladies of doubtful ages and uncertain tempers. During the day, Tim is to be found lounging at Dycer's horse repository, or at Mitchel's cigar store, unless, during   THE DALYS OF DALS"TOWN.    ,i gl the fashionable hours in the afternoon, when he loves to show his figure in Grafton street. He still speaks and boasts of his Galway property, and so habituated and confirmed has this habit become, that hisfriends say he actually believes, himself, all he says. "Well," said Charles Kelly, I must say, Henry, thaet I approve of what you are going to do for Tim O'Roarke; one thing you will be glad to hear about hiMA, and that is, when he was down here, he was very kind to Tom Gallaher, though Lyons actually did his best to have the poor fellow taken up as a dangerous vagrant." "Tom has told me something of this," answered Henry. "But tell me, Charles, do you think had Tom any idea of my being in the country ." !"Not the slightest. I kept it scrupulously concealed from every person, Tom in particular, though I longed to tell it to him." "Then he recognized my footsteps, this evening. I sup- pose he will have the news of my arrival noised about the neighborhood early enough to-morrow." "No doubt of that. You will have every man woman, and child on the lands of Dalystown, here to-morrbw." "We must prevent this, Charles. I tell you what I will do, I will send Tom, early in the morning, to tell them that I will be at Dalystown the day after. Unless you can in. duce Anthony to return with us, I must spend to-morrow at Crearen. I would not have the people coming here in my absence, and, to tell you the truth, I am romantic enough to wish to meet them first at the old place, when it is ren- dered up to me." Though, as I have said, it was late when the two friends retired to rest, they set out early the next morning, and ar- rived at Crearen before Anthony O'Kelly had left his bed. When the servant told them that he had not yet risen, they went in front of the house and commenced throwing sand up against the bedroom window. Thus besieged, Anthony jumped up and and came to the window, but seeing a stran- ger, as he supposed, with Charles Kelly, he was about mak- ing a hasty retreat, when Henry called out, "Anthony-Anthony, don't you know me?" ' .                   ?   516      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. "Thunder!" exclaimed O'Kelly, "it is Henry Daly!" With that he dashed back from the window, and, half dress- ed, hurried down stairs to meet Henry at the hall door, to hug him in his arms, drag him by both hands into the par- lor and then perform several evolutions round the room, to the great delight of Henry, who said, "Thank God, I find something unchanged in Ireland." "What is that " asked O'Kelly. "Yourself, Anthony." "What should change me?" said the other, in such unaf- fected surprise, that both his friends laughed heartily. "But you, Henry." said O'Kelly, looking at him, " why you have got as brown as a berry, and eh! what,-are those gray hairs I see? Oh, my poor fellow, where have you been! I suppose you never saw a hunt or a race since you left us?" "Not one, Anthony." "No wonder then, that you should have some gray hairs. By George, I would have been white in half the time under like circumstances. But when did you arrive '" "I arrived in Dublin eight days ago, and I am again mas- ter of Dalystown, Anthony." "Hurrah! hurrah!" shouted O'Kelly, again dancing round the room. Then he suddenly stopped before Henry, and said, in a reproachful tone, whilst his face flushed, "You are in Ireland eight days. You have purchased back Dalystown, and I have heard nothing of all this until now! Ah, Henry, I fear something else must have changed, even more than your hair, or this would not be." "I can explain this, Anthony," said Daly, taking his friend's hand. "In the meantime believe, as you surely I ust, that Henry Daly's heart never changed to the dear frend of his youth." O'Kelly grasped the hand he held, in both his own, and a tear started to his eye, It was fully an houy before he thought of returning to his room to dress. { "Do you hear, sir," he said to the servant, ' get break- fast, and while we are waiting for it, just go and eet the hag- gart on fire. But mind, Henry, I must have thn explana- tion you have promised, or"--- "You will shoot me, Anthony,"   THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN.     51 "No, faith, Henry," he replied, again taking his friendhl hand, " but I'll scold you when I'm tired bidding you wel come." During the day,. Charles Kelly persuaded Anthony to return with them to the Grove, and the next morning, ac cording to appointment, the sheriff arrived there. Before they set out for Dalystown, a number of the neigh- boring gentry, having heard of Henry's arrival, called up- on him, and they now, one and atl, proposed to accompany him to Dalystown; so he set outito take possession of his -old home,.escorted by quite a cavalcade of friends. But, as they approached Dalystown, the s hiole country seemed to have turned out to do him honor. "I really," said the sheriff, " did not suppose there were so many people, in the country." A large bonfire blazed at the gate, and as the carriage, in which Henry Daly sat, drove up, cheer upon cheer rent the air. Those who had known him in years gone by now rushed forward to welcome him, to kiss his hand, or even to get one glance of recognition from his eye, while women held up little children to gaze upon him. All this was very different from his lonely visit two even- ings before; very different to enter thus in the broad light of day, surrounded by friends, to see too, how his presence lighted up with joy the careworn faces of those around him. And Henry felt the difference; his heart throbbed with trlumph. Here was realized that which he had dreamt of in the forests of America. His toils, his constancy, his brave loyal love to the land of his birth, to the home of his youth, were all repaid in that hour of triumph. As the crowd pressed around, a voice cried out- "Take the horses from the carriage, boys, and draw him up.' "No," said Henry, springing from the carriage, I' not so shall I enter my home; I come, my friends, from a country where horses are left to do horses' work, and men do only the work of men." He then took O'Kelly's arm and entered through the arched gateway, but as he proceeded up the avenue, he had   518      THE DALYS OF DALYSTOWN. each moment to stay his steps, to turn and greet some hum- ble friend, whilst on every side he heard, "Don't you re- member me, Mr, Henry? Oh, but you're welcome back asthore. Praise be to God, we see a Daly in Dalystown once more!" Henry's heart was touched to the very core. When he reached the house and ascended the broad steps leading to the hall door, he turned; his face was pale, and his voice shook as he essayed to speak, but there was truth and fire in his eyes,- "My friends," he said, " here, on the threshold of my old home, standing in the presence of my God, I promise you that I shall wall round my property with the smiling cot- tages of a tenantry whose interests and mine shall be -as one." The promise, thus made, has been fulfilled. THE END.     
         
       
   
