
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Myself .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7314
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Myself 
            
                  MYSELF.    MY SELF: A ROMANCE OF NEW  ENGLAND   LIFE. PHLADELPH A  J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. 1872.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by THE PEORIA TRANSCRIPT COMPANY, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.  CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGR Wherein the Reader is informed of my Birth and Sundry Incidents connected therewith, and is treated to a Description of the "Cot where  I was born.".............................................................  CHAPTER If, In which I introduce a Female Acquaintance, and open up my In- troduction to the Common-Schoo,, ..... ...... .. 9............ x9 CHAPTER     III. Relates to a Tragedy, a Funeral, an "Old Testament"Sermon, and a Brain Fever,............... .*..........*............s......w.... 24 CHAPTER IV. Which relates to Winter Amusements in the Country-Skating- and Sliding-Parties, and "Going Home with the Girls" -Together with a Sketch of "Town-Meeting," and what I saw there......... 32 CHAPTER V. Relates to an Old-fashioned Country Muster, and Military Tactics according to "Kyar".....*.... .................... ..,,,, 38 CHAPTER VI. Which Illustrates the Truth of the Adage, "The course of true love never runs smooth".................... ..... ...................... ........,* 50 CHAPTER VII. In which Love laughs at Obstacles, and gets the worst of it ............. 62 ,  *        (V)   Vi           CONTENTS.  CHAPTER VIII.  PAGIC How we mobbed the "Jeffersonian Atheneum and Jackson Debating Club," and what came of it, ,....... . ,,................... .... 73  CHAPTER IX.  In which Time moves, and I get a Smile, a Love-Letter, and a Lec- - ture ....................,, ,..........       84     :1a i'i CHAPTER X. In which I introduce another Acquaintance, and had a Half-Day's  Fishing, and a Very Pleasant Half-Day it was.......................... 93 CHAPTER XI.-  How the Tide in my Love Affairs rose to the Flood, and led on to a  Catastrophe....;.; ,,..... , ... ..........................*...................... o 02  CHAPTER XIL                    ; How my Father turned. me Out-of-Doors, and how I obtained a Final  Interview with " the Girl I left behind me"............................ 113 CHAPTER XIII. How I arrived at the "Hub of the Universe," with a Short Relation of my First Few Years' Experience there.. ............... .... I25 / CHAPTER XIV. In which my Opportunity arrives; and ,I place my Foot on the First  Round of the Ladder......................................................... 144 CHAP-TER XV. In which I indulge in a Panegyric on Labor, and get Enthusiastic rt   over the Subjecti      ...     ............... xS CHAPTER XV.  I make the Acquaintance of a Lawyer's Office, and a Law Student, and learn various Curious Things ....................... 1I56  il   CONTENTS. V" CHAPTER XVII. PAGE How I visited the Opera and was invited to a Fashionable Party ...... 6 CHAPTER XVIII. How I attended the Party, how I felt, and what I saw, and said, and did  there . ......................................................................... 75 CHAPTER XIX. Relates to Gossip about Female Education, our Early American Statesmen, and  their W orks ................................................ x85 CHAPTER XX. Relates to the Political Excitement in I850, and how I got on with my Legal Studies ..................................................... I CHAPTER     XXI. In which I introduce a New Character, who, I flatter myself, may prove original if not interesting  .................. ...............  CHAPTER     XXII. How I went to another Party and was introduced to Miss Willis ...... 203 CHAPTER XXIII. How I became Ill, and was taken to the Residence of Mr. Willis, and how Rev. Jeremiah Atkins undertook to make a Proselyte.......,. 223 CHAPTER    XXIV. In which Miss Willis gives her Views of City and Country Life, to which is added an Account of my Observations upon her Home Character ............... .. ............................................................ 233 CHAPTER XXV. How I   am admitted to the Bar, with an Account of the Celebration of the Event   ..... ...................     242 .C  "-I Viii          CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXVI, PAGE  How I spent a Half-Day at Brookline.., .................... .............  260' CHAPTER XXVII. How I won an Important Lawsuit, and became Famous in Conse- quence     ............................................................................ 292 CHAPTER XXVIII. How I proposed to Miss Willis, and what came of it..................... 298 CHAPTER XXIX. How I revisited my Home, and the-changes I found there .............. 3I2 CHAPTER XXX. How I went to my Appointment with Kate Blake, and the Adventure I met with, together with an Account of my meeting with my M other ............ ........ ....................................... ........... 33I CHAPTER XXXI. How I attended Commencement at Harvard, and had a Quarrel with M r. W illis ....................................... ......... ........................ 347 CHAPTER XXXII. How I turned Coward and ran away West to avoid Mr. Willis, and the Discoveries I made there ......,..........i....... . . s.......ea.,.oT #.. 363 CHAPTER XXXIII. Relates to the Tragic Death of Mr. Willis, and how I returned in haste to Boston .......... ..... ......... .................... . a. .S o ...... 379 CHAPTER XXXIV. How I obtained Tidings of Kate Blake, and how I went to find her.. 385 CHAPTER XXXV. How I spent the following Winter, and how Ned Whiting became a    i Victim to New England's Fell-Destroyer, Consumption............ 39x   CONTENTS.              ix CHAPTER XXXVI. PAGE How I ran "John Trusty" to Earth; how an Attempt was made to break the Will of the late Mr. Willis; how I went to offer my services to Miss Willis, and what came of it ........................... 406 CHAPTER XXXVII. How the Contestants of the Wil of the late Philip Willis went con- fidently into Court, and how they came out; together with a Re- lation of other Events and Circumstances necessary to a Full Completion of this History .............. ................................ .... 433 CHAPTER XXXVIII. Which is wholly Retrospective, and clears up much that has been Mysterious in the Foregoing Chapters ................................... 462 CHAPTER XXXIX. How Bell Whiting was afraid of Poor Relations and Country Cousins, and how she was cured of the Malady...... ............................ .478   r   MY SEL F. CHAPTER I. Wherein the Reader is informed of my Birth and Sundry Incidents con- nected therewith, and is treated to a Description of the "Cot where I was born." A SPARSELY populated town in the interior of New Hampshire has the honor of my birth. The event is duly recorded in the tpwn register. Of the particular incidents of the affair I have no personal recollection, although, to borrow the idea of another, I was present on that important occasion. It was my debu on the stage of life; and sundry good women of the neighborhood, with the village physician, were assembled to witness my first impersonation of the character of a human being. My parents may have been very happy over my advent. The new-comer possibly spread joy through the whole house, but I doubt it. In doubting, however, I cast no aspersion on the authors of my being, nor would I raise a suspicion of their honesty and virtue. They were but moderately circumstanced in life; and I was their fifteenth child! The Frenchman who was filled with joy at the announcement by the nurse that he was the father of twins, very gravely remarked, when it was soon- after altered by her to triplets, :' I must put a stop to this!" So I suspect my parents were led to exclaim, on the birth of their fifteenth child, "We must put a stop to this!"  Be that as it may, they did put a stop to it,--I was the last. (nI)   1 2         MYSELF. Connected with the fact that I was the last born were other curious circumstanceS. I was born late Saturday afternoon. It was the last week of the last month of summer. So it was said of me that I was not only the  [ last of the family, but that I was so late in the day and season that I came near not being born at all. The good old ladies assembled about my mother's bedside did not allow these coincidences to escape their notice. They "then and there" prophesied that, in consequence, I should always be the last in everything through life. All my competitors would outstrip me. My fortune would come in slowly, and only through downright exertion. I should have nothing to expect from "good luck," and in all important matters, instead of leading the van, I should lag in the rear. Of my personal appearance at this period of my life, I suppose the less said the better. And on this point the little that I have to remark is only from hearsay, evidence not admissible in courts of law. I am told that I weighed eight and a half pounds; and that I was a "darling sweet babe." If matters have not materially changed since then, I possessed blue eyei, a few freckles, a nose that Eden Warwick would call a cross between a cogita- tive and a snub, and light hair. Further than this I am unable to enlighten the most curious. Passports into this world of ours contain no descriptions of personal ap- pearance. The town-clerk's book only shows that on the thirty-first day of August, i8-, one Henry Kirk White Head was born to John and Sarah Head. On account of the lightness of my hair, my first two names were dropped, and I was generally called "Whitehead." The first that I can recall of myself I was a toddling youngster, whose chief occupation seemed to be to get thumps and bruises-falling over nearly everything that lay in my way, and it seemed as if everything did lie in my way. There were about me brothers and sisters of all ages and sizes, from a half a head taller to nearly full- grown boys and girls. My parents not being able to keep a nurse, those brothers and sisters were constituted my especial guardians. My mother's housekeeping duties allowed her little leisure to attend to the baby; but as I "   AMfYSELF.         I was a pretty general favorite in the family (the baby usu- ally is) I fared very well, the family condition considered. My father was by occupation a farmer, owning more land than he could cultivate to advantage. He raised scarcely produce enough to support his family; but in this respect he was not much of an exception to his neigh- bors. It was a misfortune, in one point of view, that the early farmers of New England could obtain a great extent of land for a small amount of money. It led them to purchase more than they needed. It induced them to at- tempt the cultivation of more than they could cultivate properly. With the philosophy of a "little farm well tilled" they were wholly unacquainted. Broad acres of rough, stony soil were plowed yearly. The ground was scantily manured, and, owing to the number of acres undertaken, the plowirig was finished so late that it put all else behind. The seed was put in the ground late, work was hurried, and nothing well done. Having begun the season late, it must be finished in the same way. The apples were gathered and the cider made late. The potatoes were not dug till the frost pinched the toes and fingers of the youngsters who picked them. So in addition to having scanty crops, they were never gathered in their best season. It is pleasing to know that some of the farmers of the present day are discovering a better method. They cur- tail their acres and increase their manure-heaps. The con- sequence is they raise more than their fathers did, on less ground, and with less labor. The practice of tilling little, and tilling that little well, was not appreciated by my father. He possessed, as was said of another, three hands,-a right hand, left hand, and "a little behind-hand." As one result, there was always plenty of hard labor on the farm, with no ade- quate remuneration, and with no attraction. Work was always driving and always backward. The boys of the family, therefore, imbibed a distaste for farming. At the age of nineteen they were severally dismissed from the parental roof, masters of their own time, to shift for them- selves, and nearly all chose some other occupation. When I first knew anything of the farm, at least a half- 2   AI4 M YSELF. dozen of my brothers had already left homne, and were engaged in other pursuits. Several had married, and had families of their own. Being the youngest-born, I was rather more indulged  than the rest; and many years passed before I was called out to pick stones in the field, to drop corn for the planters, or follow the miowers and spread the hay, and to rake   l after the cart. I spent my time about the house, amusing myself as children do. Like the pigs; I had nothing to do but grow. At first I had a constant attendant in one or another of my sisters. As I grew older, they were called off to the spinning-wheel, and I was left more to myself. I then began to play about the yard; amused myself, by pounding corn from the ear on the door-step for the chickens; threw stones at the old gander that walked like a patriarch at the head of his flock,-all or- namented with three-cornered yokes to prevent their crawling through the fence and foraging in the garden. Sometimes I wandered to the barn, and peeped through the crack in the door at a great world (to me) of space within,--at the great high beams, the scaffolds, and the tie-ups, and the swallows that built their nests on the rafters. Again I would go out and sit on a stone, and see the lambs skip and play in the pasture that rose up on the side of a green hill close by, or watched the robins carry- ing sticks and wool to build their nests in the overhang- ing apple-tree. The house in which I was born was a half-century old.  : It was built when timber was plenty and when labor was cheap,--a large, square, squat, one-story building, with ponderous beams and rafters. It was divided into four main apartments, centering ab6ut a huge stack of brick chimneys. The best room was called the "front-room." It was seldom used. The floor was unpainted, but kept nicely sanded, and sprigs of asparagus and evergreens were hung about the window-shutters and over the quaint old mirror which assumed to adorn the wall. In one corner stood a huge pile of mahogany drawers, reaching from the floor to the ceiling, the brass handles rattling at every jar or footstep. The room next in importance was the "fore-room," in   MYSELF.      -    I5 one corner of which stood the old-fashioned clock, look- ing solemnly down upon me as I awoke from my daily nap on the bed in the corner opposite. Then came the kitchen at the back of that, with its im- mense fireplace, in which swung the-great iron crane that supported a host of hooks and trammels and soot-covered pots and kettles. Cord after cord of wood disappeared every winter in its capacious throat. Like the gypsy Leathers, going the rounds of the country begging cider, it smacked its lips at every fresh offering, and was never satisfied. Over the fireplace, on wooden crotchets, rested the venerable "Queen's arm," that did service in the cause of liberty at Long Island, in the Jerseys, at the head of the Elk, putting a bullet in many a red coat, and dis- patching him to 'Ikingdom come," the only kingdom Great Britain never attempted to subdue. Several tall, iron candlesticks rested on the mantel, and close by, hanging by a loop to a nail in the wall, was Leavitt's ", Farmer's Almanac," consulted on week-days as diligently as the Bible was on Sundays. The dressers stood off in one corner, covered with blue-and-white crockery. The space between them and the wall was filled with fragments of old newspapers, white and brown rags, saved up against the arrival of some tin-peddler, to be exchanged for a milk-pan, a colander, or a coffee-pot. Four poles, forming a paral- lelogram, were suspended on iron hooks a few inches below the ceiling overhead, covered generally with white clothes hung up after ironing, though in the autumn with numerous strings of quartered and cored apples under- going the process of drying. The fourth room might have been a library had it con- tained the books. It was somewhat smaller than the others, its fireplace situated in one corner. I have been told that the house was originally occupied by the clergy- man of the town, and that this room was his study. When I first knew it, the room contained one bed and the family loom. I have often lain on my back on the floor of that room watching my mother ply the shuttle and the lathe, and my sisters the quill-wheel, varying my part of the entertainment occasionally by kicking up my heels, turning over on my head, and coming down on my knees.   I 6         MYSEL F. The cellar extended beneath nearly the whole of the house. One could count a dozen hogsheads, and as many barrels, of cider in it every autumn, all of which, save a barrel or two reserved for vinegar and for family use, was sold off by the following spring. Much of that saved for family use (and drunk by the neighbors) was brought from the cellar by myself, when I got old enough, in a quart mug, ornamented with yellow spots and a blue ring, and quaffed off during the long winter evenings when the farmers came in to talk politics. One of those neigh- bors, in particular, made it a boast that he never drank but three swallows at a time; but such swallows! The cellar also contained the potato- and the apple-bins. The Harveys and Pearmains reposed in aristocratic state in barrels, but the common herd went into bins of sweet and sour. My mother's pans of milk rested on the floor of earth. A couple of barrels of pork stood on one side, and heaps of "garden sauce" were piled in various spare places. To look in that well-crammed cellar, just after it had closed up for winter, no idea but that of plenty would enter the mind; but the many mouths of the family made rapid inroads on its contents through the winter that fol- lowed, and spring found it much in the condition of the pocket-book whose owner said it looked as though an ele- phant had stepped on it. Only one attic was ever finished in the house. It was a pleasant little room at the eastern gable, into which, through its solitary window, the sun peeped every fair morning as it rose above the hills. The finishing touch was put on that room by somebody besides the carpenter and the plasterer. The children, playing hide-and-seek, climbed up outside, between the ceiling and the roof, and one of them, making a misstep, broke through into the room. It was a sad hole, and went unrepaired for many years. Then the boys, with the smoke of their candles, drew black and fantastic figures on the plastering that remained. The remainder of the attic was one large unfinished room, with rough board floor. Here were kept the meal- chests, and wheat- and oat-bins. Over the floor was spread the corn in ear every harvest. The boys' beds were here.   MYSELF.           17 When I was old enough to be put to sleep with my brothers, I was enticed off to the land of Nod by the rain pattering on the roof, the rustling of the branches of an apple-tree on the gable, or was kept awake by the rats running about among the corn. Two barns were -in the rear of the house. One was much the older, and leaned on its companion as if for support. Both sadly needed repairs. The boards on the newest one were at best but distant friends. The wind played bo-peep in the crevices. In the winter, Boreas sifted great quantities of snow through them over the scaffolds, covering the-hay as with a well-fringed counter- pane. Jack Frost reached his skinny fingers through the crannies, and pinched the cattle in the tie-ups till they nearly doubled themselves up to escape his touches. Of the high beams in that barn I have a vivid recollec- tion. To them was I indebted for bumps such as Fowler has seldom seen-obtained through unlucky slips while clambering up in search of hens' eggs. The bumps were temporary-their impression everlasting. I feel them in imagination even now. The more aged companion of this structure was named the "Dutch barn,"-I suppose because it was made after the manner of the barns of that people, with its roof run- ning to a point in the center. The side facing the cow- yard was open to the weather. The scaffolds were only for the coarser hay, the straw, and cornstalks, which were doled out to the young cattle in winter. The sheep had their pen and hay-rick under this roof, and the hens and turkeys their roosts on the beams. Beneath the eaves the swallows built their nests, and on the apex of its roof the pewit annually proclaimed the approach of spring. How old-this barn was I know not. It was moss-covered and venerable. Its posts and sills were partially rotted away, and, notwithstanding the support it received from its fel- low, constantly threatened a fall. Yet the fierce northern winds spent their fury against it in vain. In the rear of the house rose a high hill. In front ran the road that led up from the village, a mile away. It wound about and ascended quite a slope before it reached the house, and then led off and lost itself to the east. Be- 2   I8          MYSELF. yond the road, in front of the house, was another hill. The ascent was gradual and easy. Its top afforded one of the finest views in the region. East, west, and south, a broad panorama lay stretched out before you. To the north, high hills soon shut out the view. Around them, to the northwest, came out the placid river, and stretched across the plain, its banks alternately dotted with forest, ' farm, and village, till it was lost to the view in the dim, I distant blue of the south. A solitary mountain, the Kear- l sarge, a monarch of the realm, stood in full relief at the west, and on- the river-bank beneath its shadow could be seen the birthplace of Webster. To the south shone the glittering spires of the State capitol. Directly at your feet lay a church, the district school-house, the town-house, a store, and a dozen dwellings, that went to make up a village. Over the woods, to the east, appeared the clus- tering homes of an industrious and flourishing family of Shakers. Portions of the hill-sides on the north were-covered with forests, and portions were devoted to tillage and pastur- age. Out from among the trees, its chimney sending a blue smoke to the heavens, peeped here and there a farm- house. Half a mile away to the north, towering above you, was a large and elegant farm-house, indicating ease and thrift in its owner. Down from it, through the trees, tum- bled the road and a noisy brook side by side. In summer everything about these hills was green with verdure. Numerous flocks of sheep dotted the pastures. Cattle lazily browsed the hill-sides.. Crows made their caws heard in all the woods, and came down to prey on the farmers' fields. Sometimes they got "high" on - rum-steeped corn scattered about, and in that mood were taken prisoners; and sometimes the unerring aim of the farmer boy's gun settled their accounts beyond the neces- sity of an administrator. Before I was large enough to climb the hills I have de- scribed, the world to me was very small. I could look down through the orchard and see where the road from  the village came up from behind a grove of nodding chest- nuts. I could see the brook coming from the farm-house   -MYSELF.          I  above. I could see beyond the brook a field, and in it, standing on an eminence, another farm-house. Further than this, I could see nothing but cloud and sky. My whole world was contained within the radius of a half- mile. As I grew older, I strayed down to the junction of the roads, crawled through the fence into the field where ran the brook, and watched the fish that played in its waters. If I fell into it, no matter,-it was too shoal to drown me. My brothers constructed a miniature water-wheel and set it for me in the brook. No manufacturer with his twenty thousand humming spindles could be prouder than was I. I sat watching it whole hours, while it went on making revolutions as sturdily as a Mexican, and yet like the. Mexican making no progress. CHAPTER II. In which I introduce a Female Acquaintance, and open up my Intro- duction to the Common-School. ONE summer the farm-house on the knoll above received a new owner; and the interest I took in my revolutionary friend was heightened by the appearance one day on the opposite bank of a little girl, who put down her basket of strawherries and came to watch it likewise. Neither of us spoke, but we alternately gazed at the wheel and each other. After a time she went away. The following day she came again, laid her sun-bonnet onr the grass and sat down to watch me as I placed a second wheel by the side of my first. She spoke not, but her large, full eyes followed all my motions. When the water poured on my new wheel and it went spluttering about in company with its companion, she suddenly clapped her hands and burst into an exclamation of delight. From that moment " the ice was broken." We became rapidly acquainted. Every day she came to meet me at the brook, and we   20         MYrYSELF. were very intimate. As we sat watching the busy re- volving-wheels she told me the earth kept turning over just like my wheels. Gulliver never had a more incredu- lous auditor. "I don't believe that," said I, giving my head a toss; "because when the world turned over we should be spilled out .  "The angels hold us on," was the reply.       = "The angels never held me on," I retorted. "You don't know. The world turns over when we are asleep. God makes it dark and puts us to sleep so we sha'n't be scared. Isn't He real good?" She had got beyond my depth. I was not compelled to dispute her proposition, nor was I inclined to admit it. When I went home I referred the matter to my mother, and she corroborated it. Then I knew the world went round, for my mother said so. There was no appeal from what she said. I remarked then that I guessed the angels the night before had forgotten to hold the eggs in the robin's nest, for I found them that morning lying on the ground underneath the tree, broken to pieces. The remark got wind and afforded considerable amuse- ment to the family. My father volunteered the informa- tion that the cat could probably tell how the eggs became broken. Thereupon I became very indignant at grimal- kin,--for the robins were great favorites of mine,-and taking her aside I proceeded to inform her that the angels were very angry at her for the robbery, and that as a pun- ishment they would drown one of her kittens. It was not long before I repented my words. I had not spoken by authority. To keep my credit for truth with grimalkin, I stole one of the kittens away, and carrying it down to the brook, threw it in. The little thing rose to the surface and gave such a piteous cry that I repented and took it back to its companions, and allowed my reputation for truth and veracity to suffer--in the estimation of the cats. The season passed away; another followed; and the water-wheels, carefully housed during the winter, were again set in the brook. Again I fell in with Kate Blake on the banks. The first of June arrived, I was called up from my wheels, one morning, my face and hands were ,/ /'   MYSEL F.         21 scrubbed with soap and water, my naturally perverse locks were combed as smoothly as they would allow, and when the school-children from above came along, I was given into their charge and told to " be a good boy and mind the mistress." Myr pockets were well crammed with doughnuts and "turnovers," and I went off quite con- tentedly, although I felt some regret at leaving my water- wheels and Kate Blake. But when I got down opposite Kate's I was agreeably surprised to see her, all smiles and blushes, led out into the road by her mother, and also given into the charge of the children. One of the elder girls took Kate's dinner-basket and book; she ran round and grasped my hand; and we all trudged off merrily to- gether,--Kate and I lagging behind at times to contem- plate the many new objects that met our gaze, or running forward to catch the new wonders that continually un- folded themselves before us. The common-schools of New England are closely in- terwoven with her history and prosperity. As early as I649, they were made a part of the legal establishment of Massachusetts colony. They had already been introduced into several of the towns. The code of that year was prefaced by a preamble which declared that it was one of the chief objects of "the old deluder Sathan," to keep men from the knowledge of the Scriptures. It was there- fore enacted that each township should maintain school for reading'and writing, and that a town of a hundred householders "should maintain a grammar-school, with a teacher qualified to fit youths for the university," This school law was very soon adopted in Connecticut, and by the Plymouth and New Haven colonies. The first con- stitution adopted in Massachusetts, in 1780, charged the legislature to cherish the interests of literature and the sciences, and especially the public-schools and grammar- schools in the. towns. The schools-and the same was the case ins New Hampshire and Connecticut, and also with the county-schools in Maryland-were continued on their old colonial footing. At that time these four were the only States that could boast of anything like a system of public education; and it was a long period before their example was imitated by other States.   22         MYSELF. A curious specimen of local legislation concerning these schools is presented in an extract from the town register of Andover, Massachusetts, for the year I754, which is here given verbatim et ad literam : "It was Put to vote to See if the Town will Rais any money for the Supot of Reading, Righting and Cifering Schools in the Out Scurts of the Town and it Passed in the Negative." The happiest hours of my life, though I was then un- aware of the fact, were passed in the common-school of my native village. The school-house was a small wooden structure, uncouth and ill ventilated. It was capable of seating nearly one hundred scholars. The teacher's desk was at the end opposite the entrance, and the desks of the pupils were ranged on each side of the house, the girls occupying one side and the boys the other. The room was commodious enough, but it was badly planned. The seats were low and cramped. In summer ventilation was gained by throwing up the window-sashes, allowing the pure air to float in from across the valley and fields. In the winter, when the windows were closed, the air was breathed over and over again by the pupils, until it be- came noisome and infectious, breeding colds and cotghs and laying the foundation in many a child's system of that scourge of New England, consumption. Ventilation was a little thing to me then; but I understood it quite as well, and thought of it quite as much, perhaps, as those who had the superintendence of the schools. I often wondered how it was that- I sometimes had the headache, and felt op- pressed and half ill during winter hours. And the good people wondered, too, why so many young girls and boys, with not over-strong constitutions, could never attend school without becoming ill. The invariable conclusion was, "The poor things study too hard." The first day that I attended school, I was placed on one of the front seats. It had no desk before it. Kate Blake was seated nearly opposite me. We were called up to read'in "words of easy syllables" (we had learned the alphabet at home), and the remainder of the time were allowed to gaze about the house. At night we both went home cramped and sore from our long sitting; but we   MYSELF.           23 ^23 gradually became accustomed to that, and soon minded it but very little. My first essays at school are but dimly fixed on my mind. I know that Kate and I were great cronies; and at noon wandered off to the shade of an oak in an adjoining field to eat our dinners, which, owing to the distance to our homes, we daily brought with us. Boys are prone to imitate, especially mischievous tricks. Though I was not naturally vicious, I soon learned from others to bend slyly forward and stick pins in the legs of the urchins as they stood up in their classes before me to recite. I was detected occasionally and called up to the desk of the mistress--a blooming village girl, two years beyond "sweet sixteen"--and compelled to stand for a time on one foot, or hold a book at arm's length till my arm ached severely with the exertion. Rarely did I go back to my seat without crying. The punishment lasted for several days, and then it was forgotten, and I was at my old tricks again. At length an application of "the oil of birch" was found necessary to cure me. My studies were limited to my spelling-book, and occu- pied but a small portion of my time. What is the wonder, then, that I filled up the remainder with the snapping of paper pellets at the girls opposite, or tickled the boy's legs, that stuck out in the alley behind me, with a straw that I slyly concealed in my sleeve? Thus I passed my first summer at school. I did not at- tend in winter. The distance was too great, and I was too small. I was not able to breast the rugged weather, nor large enough to wade the big drifts of snow. I scarcely saw my friend, Kate Blake, the whole winter through. When spring came we met once more beside my water- wheels at the brook. When June came we again attended school. I was a healthy boy, with a naturally quick perception. Being this year put to additional studies, I took to them with quite a zest, forgetting that I was a rogue the year previous. Kate was equally quick, and we kept even pace in our studies. We generally spent the noon intermission together. One of our favorite pastimes was to wander down to the mill in the neighboring valley and watch the   24         AMYSELF. revolutions of the great wheel, driven by the same water that turned my little wheels a mile above. The dusty miller was very kind to us, and occasionally held us up to the hopper, showing us the corn slowly running out and falliig on the swift-revolving millstones, where it was ground to meal. ,CHAPTER III. Relates to a Tragedy, a Funeral, an "Old Testament"Sermon, and a } Brain Fever.            . DURING one of these summer terms, I was engaged one  I day with a number of the boys in a game ,of ball. I hit the ball and drove it close to a bevy of the school-girls. Kate Blake sprang forward and caught it, just as Dick  Bradley, the bully of the school, stooped to recover it. Dick caught her rudely by the arm, but Kate quickly changed the ball to the other hand and flung it toward X me. He gave her a violent thrust to the ground, accom- panying it with an opprobrious epithet., I saw the insult, and quick as thought sprang upon him and bore him to the ground. I was not a match for Dick, and should have known it, but my blood was up. He shook me off, and we rose to our feet together. Violent words passed. We clinched again. Again, being the more active, I bore him to the ground; but he turned me under, and I was then at his mercy. He pommeled me   , without stint. The blood gushed from my nose and    J blinded my eyes. At last he was pulled off by the   's:S school-mistress, whose arrival put an end to the affray. :?! The children were called into school, and I was sent !- off to a neighboring pump to wash the blood from my   1i face. When I returned I was saluted with the cries 'of i Dick, who was dancing over the floor under the vigorous application of the mistress's switch. He received a terri- 4'! ble castigation, and was dismissed to his seat with the X injunction to push down and insult no more of the girls. : - !;   IM YSEE 2F. It was usual for the mistress, in dismissing school, to first pass out herself, turning round and curtsying to her scholars. The closing of the door behind her was the signal of our liberty. That evening, as she had thus passed away, and I was accompanying Kate and some others into the road, Dick Bradley came running towald- me with a stone in his hand. "I'll fix you!" he cried, flinging it at me with all the force he could command. The missile flew past me and grazed the forehead of Kate Blake, cutting through the skin and drawing the blood. For a moment all thought she was seriously injured. Cries of "Shame! shame!" rose up on all sides. It made no impression on Dick, for he stooped for an- other stone, when a third boy caught up a fragment of a brick and, as Dick drew up his arm to fling the second, dashed it full at his head. It struck Dick full on the tem- ple, and he fell bleeding to the ground. A crowd gath- ered around him, while I hurried Kate to a safe distance and there wiped away the blood, and we went home. That night, after I had retired to my bed, a villager visited the house. One of my brothers came to my room and called me up. I found my father in solemn conversation with the village clergyman. My mother sat near, greatly agitated. I divined something of the nature of the visit. I answered truthfully all their questions. I told them that I flung nothing at Dick in return, and referred them to Kate Blake for a confirmation of my story. "I think Kirk tells the truth," said my father, to which opinion  Mr. Cleverly assented. He said he would step into Mr. Blake's, on his return, and make inquiries there. He arose to depart and I was ordered back to bed. Soon after, my mother came to me and talked long and gravely about the sin of quarreling. Then, kneeling by my bed- side, she earnestly prayed that I might be kept not only from that sin, but from all wickedness and crime. Then she made me repeat my prayers and left me. The next morning they told me that Dick Bradley was dead! A sharp corner of the missile, fracturing the skull, had entered the brain, and he died within an hour after he was conveyed to his home. It was first supposed    26          MYSELF. that I threw the brickbat; but it was soon known to the contrary. The real author of the homicide acknowledged his act. Of course Dick's death was purely the result of his own passion. No serious prosecution followed; but it was, in that quiet village, a terrible circumstance. All the scholars, save the one who had caused Dick's death, attended his funeral. We went weeping to the side of the coffin, and beheld our former companion lying cold and pale within, a narrow bandage concealing the wound on his temple. It was the first corpse I had ever seen, and I looked upon it with terror, I felt that I would give everything to win Pick back to life; but he lay there, silent and rigid, not breathing nor stirring all the while I looked on. A terrible thing to me was death! Nailed up in a coffin, to be placed in the ground and covered over with earth,- never more to see father, mother, nor brothers, nor sisters, nor mates! The children huddled together during the service, terror depicted on all their countenances,-a half-stifled sob giv- ing vent, now and then, to anguish too great to be re- strained. The parents and sisters of Dick were wild with grief, and their pathetic lamentations only caused us to crouch closer together and hold our very breath, so frightened did we become. Mr. Cleverly was an honest, well-meaning clergyman,-- aged, white-haired, and venerable. He was an Old Tes- tament Christian, excessively severe, and dwelling oftener on divine justice and wrath than upon infinite goodness and love. With him, the Almighty was a just God but terrible. It has been said that the human fancy can paint with more energy the misery than the bliss of a future life. Whether it was this idea which led Mr. Cleverly constantly in that direction I know not, but he generally dwelt on the darker side of the picture. He worked on the feel- ings of his auditory by appeals to their fears, rather than to their sense of love and gratitude. Eternal torments, the worm that never dies, the fire that's never quenched, a guilty conscience always stinging, were phrases familiar in his mouth as " household words." The love and grati-   M YSELF. 27 tude due to a Being of infinite mercy and goodness, were scarcely ever urged. God's graciousness, kindness, ten- derness, and care were with him entirely subordinate to his unrelenting justice, his great anger, and stern punish- ment. This day he seemed to revel in his peculiar style. The Almighty was painted ten times more terrible than ever. The depravity of man, his gross wickedness, and his mur- derous disposition (developed in the present age in tender youth) was portrayed with solemn, startling earnestness. What a warning had been this violent death! 1 Vile sinners are we all!" he exclaimed. "Awfully has God been offended!  Cain murdered his brother Abel, and God put a mark on him and made him an outcast on the earth.  The children who mocked the Prophet Elijah were torn to pieces by bears sent upon them by an in- censed Jehovah!" And then looking about upon those who heard him, he asked if there were no bears to tear in pieces the children who had mocked God's mercy and justice by deadly quar- rels. The boy who threw the stone was not the one to blame.  The parents who educated their children to quar- rel were culpable. They had come to years of discretion. He  admonished parents, as they feared God's wrath, to rear their children as they should be reared, for "as the twig is bent the tree's inclined." The young trees were already inclined to murder! The trees were bent wrong- fully-wiickedly so! As they lived by the sufferance of divine justice,-as they hoped for mercy in the great day of final wrath,-they must give a new direction to the young saplings they had in charge. The groans of parents broke in on the preacher with constant succession. Mr. Cleverly was much more just than merciful. If he felt it his duty to admonish, he did it with inflexible stern- ness. No matter what the age, sex, or condition of the culpable party,-no matter what the place or where the opportunity,.the rebuke came. It will be thought that on such an occasion as I am describing, the already terri- bly lacerated feelings of the bereaved parents had been spared. Not so. Dick Bradley had been a harsh, ill- dispositioned boy. He had, in truth, been badly trained   28          MYSELF. at home. Mr. Cleverly knew it. "He died," said he, "with anger in his heart, and I will not mock the hopes of his friends by holding out encouragement as to his condition in another world." This was too much. Dick's sister swooned and fell on the floor. His mother was carried out of the room in hysterics.        4 It may be thought that this picture is extravagant and exaggerated. Happily it has few parallels. The milder precepts of the Saviour are now more inculcated from the pulpit. Though there may now be no more of strict in- tegrity, and no more sincere piety among professed Chris- tians than when harsher doctrines were preached, those professing Christians possess more cheerful and humanizing characteristics. During the whole of that discourse I sat crouched be- hind a chair, my young heart beating fearfully within my breast. I heard every word, and each of them seemed to freeze' a drop of my young blood. When the case of Cain was cited, I felt, as it were, a burning finger press across my brow, and I barely suppressed a cry of terror. I fancied that bears would enter the door and devour the children by the side of their parents. When Mr. Clev- erly closed, and the coffin was carried out, and the pro- cession was formed, I was led out more dead than alive, and placed with the other children in the long line. The solemn peals of the tolling bell fell on my ears like thun- ders from Sinai. When the coffin was lowered into the grave I broke from the procession, and with a wild cry ran out of the churchyard. Once at home, my mother withdrew me into a private room. With a mother's penetration she anticipated the baneful effects of Mr. Cleverly's discourse, and she has- tened to correct it. How long and how earnestly did she talk to me!-sweetly, as a mother only cah talk,--and I, instead of crouching and hiding my head, lay with it in her lap, and looked with earnest gaze up into her eyes, eagerly catching every word that she uttered. i The difference between what she said and what Mr. Cleverly uttered, was the difference between the nature of woman and the nature of man. The one was stern   MYSELF. 29 justice rebuking sin. The other was love and mercy gently winning the wanderer back to the path from which he had strayed. She allured me from the pictures of di- vine wrath and vengeance painted by Mr. Cleverly, to the meekness and gentleness of the Saviour, who took little children in his arms and blessed them, saying, '(Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is- the kingdom of heaven." Christ loved such youths as I. He died that I might live. He suffered for my sin. All that He asked was that I should love Him and follow his precepts. And those precepts were not of difficult practice. "My yoke," He says, " is easy, and my burden is light." I had no need to fear evil if I was good; and I need not fear being led into evil and wrong if I prayed to Him to keep me from temptation, and tried to do right. The Saviour was sorry that I had quarreled at school; but He was more grieved than offended. If I felt really sorry He would forgive me and welcome me back to his love and confidence. Then she knelt down and prayed with me; prayed that I might be forgiven, blest, and kept from all sin, and finally be received with the chosen in Paradise. How heartily did I join in the spirit of that petition I I left that room with her with a lighter heart, with emotions of gratitude to one who so loved me that He died for my sins. Agreeably to my mother's advice, I resolved never to quarrel again. I would not strike a mate even in self- defense; but when I received a blow on one cheek I would turn the other. I confess I felt staggered as the query arose in my mind, "What shall I do if Kate Blake be struck?"I would resent that! I would protect her, come what might! On second thought I corrected the decision. I would first beg to suffer for her; but if they would not consent to that, then I would protect her, and God might punish me as He saw fit, and I would stand up and bear it, for I knew it was right, and God couldn't make it wrong. I kept my resolution for a long time. I never spoke but in pleasant tones. I never answered but kindly. I always obeyed commands with cheerful, or apparently 3*   30         MYSELF. cheerful, alacrity. My patience, at times, was put to se- vere-tests, but I endured all without complaint. I was not blamed by anybody save Dick's family for Dick's death. They always blamed me, because it was I who led him into the quarrel. At first they talked of prosecuting those concerned for murder; but they were persuaded to await the action of the grand jury. The grand jury considered the case and threw it out, and so ended the matter. I did not attend school again that season. It was thought the associations would be too unpleasant. I was therefore put to work on the farm along with my brothers. I followed the mowers and spread the hay, raked after the hay-cart, rode home on the load, and stowed it away on the scaffold. I went on errands, caught the old family horse when wanted, drove in every noon the oxen that drew up the hay in the afternoon, and every evening brought home the cows and turned them out again in the morning. I saw Kate Blake at church, and once or twice as I went to her father's on an errand. I grew pale and melancholy. The cause I kept con- cealed in my own bosom. Every night I saw in my dreams Dick Bradley falling bleeding to the earth, and witnessed also that terrible funeral service over and over again. Bears came out of the woods to devour me, and I awoke trembling with fright just as I saw a beautiful being stretch out his hands to save me. These dreams could have no other tendency than to wear me down, and at length I grew so pale and weak that my parents and the neighbors became alarmed. The village physician was .called in. He felt of my pulse, looked grave, and shook his head. Soon after I was con- fined to my bed with brain fever. The good old physi- cian said he knew what caused it; that if I died Mr. Cleverly might know that there was more than one way of committing murder. Kate Blake's anguish at my illness was most acute. She came every morning and evening to inquire after me; and when they looked and spoke gravely she went away weeping. At last I came so near death's door that I looked in at the portal. Even the prepara-   M[YSELF.          3  tions for my funeral were contemplated. But the crisis came and passed, and I was pronounced convalescent. Before I arose from my bed, spring came; and when I was able to sit, bolstered up in my chair, Kate Blake brought me nosegays of buttercups and apple-blossoms. Theibirds that sang in the branches of the apple-tree close by the window were apparently not half so glad as she. I recovered gradually, and the ringing in my ears, and the dreams that had so haunted me, were gone. Before the summer term of school was finished, I attended once more. The fatal affair of the previous season was never mentioned by my mates. I was so sad and so pale that I became an object of especial kindness and regard. No games of ball were played. No bickerings or disputes were ever heard. I indulged in few sports, and spent my noon intermissions with a few chosen mates in rambles to the neighboring woods for flowers, and leaves for garlands with which to adorn the school-room. When winter came again, I was sent off to school with my brothers. New scenes, new studies, and the discipline of a male teacher gradually drew me away from my sad- ness. I became more lively; indulged more in the boyish sports; and began to grow stout and rugged again. Years went by. I was growing large and strong. I left the summer school and labored upon the farm. I at- tended the winter school, and, being studious, excelled in my studies and stood at the head of my classes. Kate Blake was my favorite. Every day I carried her a big apple, and received her thanks for the present. Many of my evenings were spent at her home, each assisting the other with our lessons.    MYSELF. CHAPTER IV. Which relates to Winter Amusements in the Country-Skating- and Sliding-Parties, and "Going Home with the Girls"-Together with a Sketch of "Town-Meeting," and what I saw there. THE monotony of life in the country would be very chilling to city-bred youths. The amusements of the country are few and homely. But they are invigorating and- develop the physical powers. The bright moonlit winter evenings wer e sometimes spent in skating-parties. Occasionally the village girls, wrapped in warm woolens, would accompany the boys to the ice, and, seated securely on sleds, would be dragged swiftly by the skaters over its polished surface. Kate Blake was an accomplished skater, and led the boys many a lively chase. When the snow covered the ice and prevented a skating frolic, the young folks would join in a sliding-party. A great ox-sled would sometimes be obtained, and, with the larger and more courageous boys for pilots, we would dash down the snowy declivities with the speed of a locomotive. At times, when the opportunity was good, and there was no danger of bruises, the pilots suddenly turned the sled out of its course, shooting it off at a tangent, throwing girls and boys promiscuously into the snow. At the breaking up of the party, like Dame Durden's maids and men, "they all began to mate." Young swains whispered in the ears of favorite lasses: "Shall I see you home?" "Thank you; I don't care if you do." "Perhaps you had better accept my arm," meekly sug- gests the youth, crooking "the pregnant hinges" of his elbow. "Thank you; perhaps I had." And most gingerly is the -well-mittened hand placed upon the proffered crook. Then great anxiety is manifested on the part of both to elude the balance of the company. Very low and monosyllabic words and brief sentences are uttered at first,   NMYSELF.          33 with ample pauses between them; but tongues loosen; sentences grow longer; pauses are more brief; and each is quite anxious to consume half the time in talking. The conversation is very low-toned and confidential. There is a close neighborhood of seal-skin caps and woolen hoods,-so close that at times it is hard to tell which head they cover. Steps are slackened; and if the night is fine, no matter how the frost may sparkle, it takes a long time to go only a short way. Then there is a respectful part- ing on the doorstep, a whispered "good-night," perhaps a kiss!--and then, while the lass vanishes within, the lad goes briskly off to his own home, busily humming a tune or whistling an air, just to show how unconcerned he is! Tender, delightful, are these episodes in the career of the country-boy. American courtships have formed the theme for foreign writers. An English reviewer contrasts them with those of Italy and his own country, and says: "The independ- ence of the American girl commences with the earliest stages of school life. Early in the morning she walks out alone, sometimes to the distance of miles, to her academy. Who her tutors and companions, what her studies, what books she reads, what friendships she contracts, her parents scarcely ever care to inquire; or, if asked, scarcely ever does she condescend to reply.' In proportion as she grows, the more completely and absolutely does she ac- quire the mastery over her own actions. She chooses her A  dancing- and music-masters, her congregation, and her minister. She subscribes to cotillon-parties, shines off at a fancy fair, or at a flower auction. She walks home late i  at night with her favorite partner, and makes a long tour by moonlight to enjoy the coolness and sentimentalism of the night air. She introduces her male friends to her mother, and sends out her invitations to tea without con- sulting the 'old lady.' Finally, she informs her parents i  that her lover has popped the question. And all this j  unbounded latitude," continues the writer, "is scarcely ever attended with mischievous results. The American X young lady very early acquires the calculating habits of the country. She is her own duenna and chaperonc. Her i fancy and her heart are always under her control. She   34         MYSELF.   / ' learns to value her admirers according to their worth. 'Before she leaSes school, a Yankee girl-God bless her! -has a thorough knowledge of the world. She is up to every trick, secure against all amorous seductions. Her look is proud and dark; her step firm and secure." The picture may be overwrought, yet much truth is rec- ognizable.  During such excursions I had but one partner. It was naturally expected that Kate and I would couple together. . - Rarely was an attempt made to supplant me, and those attempts were invariably failures. The people of New England are born with a taste for i politics. They take to the science of government as in- dustriously as beavers to the building of dams. New Hampshire has furnished the country with many eminent  politicians and statesmen; and she has as many more in : embryo. The village store is a caucus-room; and winter evenings, if not spent there, are spent by the farmers at each other's firesides in the discussion of political topics and criticisms of men and measures, The annual State . ' election is an event of the year. It is a scene of great S excitement, casting its shadow a great ways before. No- where is the political canvass more spirited and exciting, not to say personal and bitter.            S My first visit to a "March meeting" was an era in my life. The south wind had blown for several days; the snow had grown soft, and the roads were "slumpy" and full of holes, and in situations exposed to the sun the water ran freely. The proud owner of six entire cents,  coin of the republic, I took my way to the village. The vicinity of the town-house seemed crowded with men and boys. I had never seen so many people in collection be- fore. The sight at once filled me with great awe of town- meeting. The horse-sheds were converted into booths for the sale of nuts, ginger-bread, confectionery, india-crack-  ers, apples, and cider. The melting snow made a sort of rivulet in front of the town-house door, and it was    bridged over with planks and fence-rails. The crowd   MYSELF.          35 seemed to be making their way in and out of the hall; and so, after investing a third of my capital in ginger- bread, I pushed my way inside. The meeting was already organized. The moderator stood in the high desk rapping lustily and shouting, "Order! order!"   Young as I was, it occurred to me that the noise of his rapping and his stentorian calls to order served to make the disorder greater. Balloting for a representative in the legislature was going on. Some one, standing on a seat, was vainly endeavoring to say a word in behalf of a favorite candidate. The opposition was determined that he should not be heard. All the moderator's calls to order were of little effect to still the tumult, and the orator was compelled to stand down without an opportunity of airing his eloquence. A long line of voters approached the desk on the right, deposited their ballots through a slit in the top of the box, saw their names duly checked off the list by the town- clerk, and then filed off to the left. " Pass up your ballots, gentlemen !" cried the modera- tor, as the line grew broken, and the clerk looked up over his spectacles, waiting for the next voter. " Pass up your votes, gentlemen; let us have your votes !" This was Greek to me. I had not the remotest idea of what was being enacted. The continuous call of the moderator for votes distressed me. I knew where a vote- distributor had deposited a parcel of ballots for safe- keeping, and being naturally obliging, when the modera- tor's request had been repeated for perhaps the twentieth time, I obtained those ballots and pressed my way under the arms of the voters toward him. "Pass up your votes !" roared the official. I held up my hand. "Here's a whole lot," said I. Fancying an insult, of which I had not the slightest in- tention, the moderator cast upon me a withering scowl. "Get out, you cretur !" He caught up the inkstand of the clerk, as though he would throw it at my head, jerking the ink into the coun- tenance of that worthy personage and giving him a pair of very black eyes.    36         MYSELF. "What the pesky are you about?" cried the latter, jerking back and shaking his head and spluttering. In pulling out his bandana handkerchief, he knocked his glasses from his eyes and they fell on the floor. The men about the desk shouted with laughter, the moderator colored up and apologized, while I, the inno- cent cause of all the mischief, made my escape very much frightened. As I skulked out at- the door, my fright was increased on hearing the vote-distributor declare that i some one of the opposition had stolen his ballots; and that if he only knew who it was he would "pound" him till he was blacker in the face than the ink-bespattered  clerk in the desk. A large crowd gathered out on the common called me in that direction, for I was born with the Yankee curiosity to see all that was to be seen. Besides, I wished to escape the detection of those within the house.. I crept under the arms of the people, and obtained a position on the inner side of a ring formed around a couple of wrestlers, one of whom was my brother. The two were about evenly matched, young, vigorous men. The excitement among the spectators was great. "Take the back lock on him, Jim," shouted one of them to my brother.       - "Ah! That's it!" cried another, as one of the parties s made a nearly successful trip of the other's legs.  "Stan' right up to it, and show your grit, b'ys," ex- claimed a third, as the wrestlers leaned their heads together and put their feet as far away as possible. I "That's it! Stan' right up and put in the science." "Half-hip him, Joe!" "Twitch him, Jim! Pull him out of his boots!" "Whoap! Whoap!"   "Hold on!"  "Take care!"   X "Look out!" "There you are!" were the exclamations that followed a violent struggle which resulted in my brother bringing his antagonist down on his knees. Then  came a struggle still more violent. The one attempted to rise, the other to prevent him and force him on his back. Numberless and varied were the shouts of the spectators. "Stick to him, Jim!"                " "Hang on-hang like a good fellow, Joe!"    MYSELF.          37 "Don't let him up. Tip him over, Jim !" "Spring to, Joe; spring to ! Buckle. Spring to !" The party last addressed did "spring to," and gained his feet in spite of the efforts of my brother to prevent him. Loud were the cheers of the friends of Joe. I felt bad for the honor of the family! I saw my brother's cheek redden. Having gained his feet, his antagonist, for the moment, became careless. My brother sprang on him, wound his leg around on the inside of his oppo- nent's, taking the " inside lock," and flung him heavily to the ground. Then a shout, prolonged and hearty, went up from the other side. The vanquished party was sent out to bring in a man to take his place. He was soon found, but my brother flung him as soon as they engaged. " Phew ! he's nobody !" exclaimed a worthy old farmer, whose head was directly above mine. A third, fourth, fifth, a dozen followed, and they were all thrown; and the ring broke up when no one could be found that dared engage the victorious Jim. I no longer felt a regret for the honor of the family, but went off in search of other scenes, with highly exalted ideas of my brother's prowess. As the day wore on, half-drunken men appeared on the scene, attracting the attention of the idle with their noisy vulgarity and obscene jests. Drunkenness is a rare thing in a small country town. Little of it is to be seen save on public days, and even then it is uncommon. The sight of a drunken man was new to me. " What is the matter with him?" I asked, half terrified, as I saw a party lifting one of the most noisy and voluble to the horse-block. "Oh, the cider's just beginning to work the emptin's off!" laughed a man. They were lifting.the fellow up for a speech. My poor reportorial powers would do small justice to the orator. A mass of jargon, uttered with thick accents, interspersed with hiccoughs, and here and there with a snatch of true sentiment, grotesque gestures and contortions of the countenance, kept the assembled auditory convulsed with laughter. The individual was to me both terrifying and   38          MYSELF.  amusing. I laughed one moment and the next drew back affrighted, as the long, bony finger of the man was pointed toward one of the spectators, and he was de-  nounced as a "blue-light!"But the individual denounced only laughed with the others, and so I felt that the charge was not very grave, or, at least, that the man was not very guilty. "Hurrah for Gineral Jackson and (hic) Isaac Hill!"  shouted the orator. In swinging his arms aloft to give force to his words, he reeled backward and fell into a pool of water. This sudden dash into an element to which he had been a stranger for the day, cooled his oratorical ardor, and he refused to again ascend the horse-block. Finding nothing additional to interest me, and growing tired, I invested my remaining four cents in trinkets for Kate Blake and wended my way home, stopping at Mr. Blake's to deliver the presents and receive Kate's thanks. CHAPTER V. Relates to an Old-fashioned Country Muster, and Military Tactics Ac- cording to "Kyar." THERE was unbounded excitement among the boys when it was announced that the -th Regiment of State militia was to muster in a field near the village. The  regiment was composed of four comparlies of infantry,  one company of light infantry, one of artillery, one of rifles, and one of cavalry,-all but the infantry uniformed. . The expected "great training" was the theme of conver-  sation among us for weeks before it occurred; I was kept, ; particularly, in a state of great anxiety lest Caleb Clamps, , the cordwainer, whb went about annually to make up the  shoes for the families of the farmers at their houses, should  not reach my father's in season to complete my winter  boots against the muster. In such a case I should be  obliged to go to the exhibition barefoot, or stay at home.    MYSELF.          39 The latter alternative was not to be thought of. One of the neighbors gave me Job's comfort by saying I would surely be disappointed, because I was like a sheep's tail, always behind. The muster was set down for the first week in October. The weather had already a winterish tinge. White frosts covered the ground each morning. The day before the air was sharp, but otherwise the weather was quite pleas- ant. Caleb Clamps had not arrived, and I was destined to go to the muster without my boots. Save that it wounded my pride, I cared nothing for that. My feet were tough as horns, and I could crack a chestnut-bur open with my heel. It is quite true, that several of my toes had been badly "stubbed," and one or two of them were wrapped up in rags to keep out the gravel and expedite the healing process. I had saved up all my spare summer earnings, and had obtained the consent of my parents to attend, and so I awaited the day with the greatest impatience. I went to bed the evening previous with my brothers, having every- thing arranged for an early start in the morning. We talked long and with animation about what we expected, and were about falling asleep when the wagon of 'Nezer Carter, from Bingham's Four Corners, went by, and 'Nezer discharged his heavily-loaded gun directly in front of the house. 'Nezer was on his way to the " training." There were no more attempts at sleep-in our chamber at least. 'Nezer Carter was followed by other "trainers," who discharged their guns and whooped and hooted at each house they passed. Then a big bass drum struck up down in the village, accompanied by a b-flat bugle and a clarionet. Guns were discharged in all directions on the roads leading to it. Wagon succeeded wagon by the house, and the hooting and whooping and discharging of guns increased each hour. The notes of " the ear-piercing fife" and sounds of the "spirit-stirring drum" came with almost unbroken continuance. Midnight was not far passed be- fore my brothers dressed themselves, and, enjoining me to wait till the morning sun had cleared away the frost, crept silently down-stairs and out of the doors and went off. I stood at the window listening to the music and   40          MYSELF.              - the noise until I shivered with the cold. Then I put down. the sash and crept into bed.           X The sun was well up when I awoke in the morning. :  1 Making a hasty toilet (I had little more to do than the '. dog Shock, who shook his coat and was ready for any com- X pany), I ran down, swallowed a scanty breakfast, and started -t for the show.                      1 The frost was not wholly off the grass. It pinched my  toes most maliciously, as I was obliged nearly every rod to turn out of the graveled path to give passage to some t vehicle loaded down with men and boys. As one of them went by, the owner, observing my bare feet, reined in and cried out,-  "Rather cold for bare toes. Jump in behind, sonny." I obeyed, glad enough to meetwith such kindness; but : as we neared the village, and the noise of the fifes and : drums came more distinctly to my ears,. I grew impatient : at the dull animal that drew us, and leaped out and ran  on in advance. I couldn't wait to ride. Drawn up in front of the village store, and leaning upon j their guns, were Captain '"Kyar's" company of infantry. A It was composed of a motley set of men, some seventy-five 3 in number, without uniforms, as various in size as age, I and as variously equipped, although they were "armed  j and equipped according to law." A slender youth of   : eighteen, with a heavy "Queen's arm," undergoing his : first day's training, stood beside a six-foot, bushy fellow, I whose gun was many pounds lighter and many inches   ! shorter. The tall and muscular were promiscuously mixed  in with the lean and dumpy. Rusty bayonets, some fas-   tened on with screws and others with wooden wedges; knapsacks that had made a tour to Saratoga many years in : advance of the fashionable world; canteens of every im- ' aginable shape and material, from "chunk-bottle" and  i tin flask to miniature barrels; cartridge-boxes, with rusty coverings and still rustier belts; priming-wire and brush -made up the "cutriments" of the company. Captain Kyar* was a model officer. Slightly verging toward military dandyism, with his uniform strictly clean, v * Kyar.-The Yankee vernacular for Currier.   MYSELF.          41 and conforming as nearly to strict taste as the captain's limited knowledge and ideas allowed, he was considered one of the smartest subordinate officers in the whole regiment. "'Tenshun--company!" Every man stood erect in his place, with one hand grasping his piece. "F-r-r-ront--fes!" The captain spoke quick and decisively, dwelling on the first word, then allowing a pause, that every man might stand ready to catch the next, which he uttered with a jerk that curtailed it of half its " fair proportions." "I Sol-jer-r-r-- a' ms!" Up went the muskets to the shoulders of the men, one following another like sheep over a stone fence. "Or-der-r-r-- a'ms!" Down went the guns, the butts of some striking the ground, and others striking toes, causing grimaces and hopping about, and, I am sorry to add, an exhibition of that unamiable weakness which, as Uncle Toby alleged, characterized the king's forces in the Low Countries. Some slipped from the hands of their owners, causing hasty and irregular movements to "recover." "'Tenshun! Stand erect!" shouted Captain Kyar, as he saw the disorder. "Si Johnson, if your fingers are so cold you can't hold your gun, you'd better put your mit- tens on." "Dern it, captain," exclaimed Josiah, coloring up, "my thumb's sore." The captain took no notice of the apology, but cried out: "'Tenshun! Sol-jer-r-r   a'ms!" Up went the guns in somewhat better order than before. "Pre-sent--  a'ms!' Out came the guns, vertically, held at full arm's length. I ISol-jer-r-r a'ms!" ' Back went the guns to the shoulders again. "Ca-ry   a'ms!" CRecov-er-r-r--  a'ms!" "Cha-agc   bagnet!" Down came the rusty "tooth-picks" close in the faces 4*   42         MYSELF of the crowd in front, starting them back to the mani- fest danger of my unshod feet. I made an exclamation  and a grimace, and held up one leg and squeezed the toes with my hand.  "Don't pay much 'tenshun to them fellers here," re- marked a big man at my side, smiling as I bemoaned this  incipient step for a future crop of corns. "Put your toes in your pockets," laughed another, more unfeeling. "Sol--jer-r-r- a'ms!" cried Captain Kyar again; and in watching the exercise of his "foot"I forgot my own.             ..        . "Pre-sent---- a'ms!"  , "Recov-er-r-r-- a'ms!" "Or-der-r-r  a'ms!"  "Stan' at ease!"  The exercise was concluded. I may not have given it according to Scott or 'Hardee, but I am sure I have ac- cording to "Kyar." The men leaned again upon their  guns. Captain Kyar sheathed his sword, and Jonathan Tucker uncorked his canteen and took a drink of new cider. Jonathan's example was generally followed. The short exercise elicited the warmest encomiums  I from the bystanders. "Raal sogerly done," remarked a stout man, with russet clothes and close-fitting knit cap, whose eyes kept up a continual snapping. "I never seed it better done under Steuben," replied a white-haired Revolutionary veteran, who, leaning on his  staff, had watched the drill with the tip of his tongue pro- truding from his mouth. "You were out in the army, then?"  "Yes, sir," said he, quietly, "I sarved five year in the Revolution. I knowed Stark, and Knox, and Greene, and Gates. I war at Yorktown when Cornwallis s'rendered." "Didn't used to know 'Bijah Hopkins, did ye?" asked an individual with a whip in his hand, the handle of which he was poking about among a pair of whiskers that would have served for a capital mouse-nest. "'Bijah war killed at Long Island, and that war 'fore I listed. When the news come that the British had entered  't   MYSELF.          43 York and WashingtoA wanted more sojers, my father says to me, "Diah, you must g'wout along with your brothers.' There war four on 'em in the army already. Says he, 'Our country needs the help of all her sons. My sons are her sons. Mother, just go to work and rig 'Diah. I kin stay to hum and take keer of the farm.' And so mother and the gals fixed tne out, and I started off, and war with Stark at Benningtoni. 'Twar a sight to see Stark on the morning of that 'ere day. 'See them 'ere red- coats yonder! Boys, we must beat 'em to-day, or Molly Stark to-night sleeps a widder!' And"--the old vet- eran drew himself up-"we did beat 'em han'somely!" "I'd like to have been there!" remarked a youth, whose glowing eyes showed how he had been fired at the recital. "Perhaps you might, and perhaps you mightn't," re- plied the veteran, with a shrug. "It's pooty enuff trainin' here to hum onc't a year; but when you kum to the raal knocks, with cannon boomin', balls a-whistlin', and your comrades, fallin' all 'round you, 'tain't nigh on't so nice. I know one don't think on't then. He gets kind a hard- ened, and don't keer more for musket-balls than as if they were snowhalls. He rushes on, closin' up the gaps in the ranks, and tramplin' over dead bodies 'sthough they war only so many hummocks. The excitement carries him away from the raality of the thing; but 'fore and arter the battle's terrible. 'Fore the battle you expect to be shot. Arterwards, though you are alive, your messmates and friends are purty n'er all shot down. And then the sufferin's of the sojers at Valley Forge. That 'ere war no boy's play, I tell ye. I'd much rather been 'tendin' the cattle to hum, and choppin' back-logs in the door-yard. But I war fightin' for independence, and I stuck to it." "Ah, yes!" exclaimed the man with the whip, "them was the times as tried men's souls. 'Twant like our milisha trainin's, my young friend!" Attention was here called to the return of Captain Kyar to his company. "'Tenshun! Eyes right! Right-fes! Music! For- rard---march!" Away went the company rub-a-dubbing up the road to   "         MYSELF. the muster-field, inclosed by an army of men and boys, nearly concealing the soldiers from view. On reaching X the summit of the hill, Captain Kyar wheeled off to the  right through a gate into a large and level field. An officer on horse, with cocked hat and flowing plumes, golden   epaulettes and. military boots, stood ready to receive him.  Suddenly the crowd halted, fell off, and Captain Kyar and his command emerged from the mass as the moon from a cloud. Unconscious of the cause, I followed.  ; "Ha-alt!" A fellow with a gun approached menacingly.  .  I halted. A long line of men and boys-here and   ;H B there a woman-extended up and down the field. In front of them, men with shouldered muskets marched and  countermarched.                     i "Git back there, barefoot!"And to accelerate my   i movements, the guard feelingly insinuated the point of his bayonet into my trousers. A laugh went up as I  sprang with a howl into the crowd.  I squeezed my way through, fearful the guard might follow me; and soon the sound of the fife and drum came X indistinctly on my ears.  New scenes attracted my attention. A peddler stand- ! ing on his cart held a tin skimmer in his hand endeavoring to get a bid. "Gin me a bid, gentlemen! Only tu cents for this  here nice article---made from the very best imported mate- rials, and by the skillfullest workmen! Goin' at tu cents - -tu cents-tu cents! Who'll say three? That don't begin to pay! Why, gentlemen, Camilla could skim the   X plain with this 'ere. I can even make poetry on it."  3 (Sings.)           '  "'Oh, my love is like a new tin skimmer,  And I'm the curd for a cheese,      : And she skims me out into a rimmer, X And gives me a precious squeeze.' -i "Ah! How do you like that, friend? Why this 'ere's enough to inspire the very stones with poetry! Jest the I thing for your wife. Skims do-nuts as a duck does the  water. Take it right home to your folks. 'Tis much better than brass; 'tain't s' liable to c'rode. You can :I   MYSELF.          45 skim apple-sass with it till you're called for, and 'twont pizen anybody, and 'twont wear eout! Three cents I'm offered. D'ye say four?" The peddler stopped and looked straight at me. I sus- pect that I nodded, for he directly proceeded,-- "Boy with unclothed toes, but with pocketful of cop- pers, says four cents. Carries the skimmer right home to his marm, like a good son,-and cheap at that! Four cents I'm offered; who'll say five? Goin' at four cents; say five? Goin', goin'; goin' at four cents; say five?' Cheap as dirt. Take the lot, only six, and you shall have 'em. D'ye say five?" The peddler looked at me again. This time I was rigid as a statue. "Sonny goes four cents and nary cent more. Four cents; who says five? Four cents, four cents, four cents; say five and it's a bargain. I'm offered only four cents. Why, gentlemen, it is takin' the very bread from the mouth of the man that made it. It's a capital article I Just look at it! Why, it will skim a flint! Will you say five cents? Four cents is bid. Goin', goin',--I sha'n't stand, gentlemen,-goin', goin'! "Once! twice! will you say five cents? Four cents I'm"-holding the skimmer up for a hammer, and bring- ing it down on the palm of his left hand,-"Gone to ragged boy for four cents!" The skimmer was passed over to the peddler's assistant, at the other end of the cart. "Come here, boy, and get your property," said the last-named personage, beckoning to me. "Fine young lad, if you are barefoot! Guess them toes was cold this mornin'. Whalin' frost, but it'll be all right, sonny, when Caleb gets 'round, won't it?  Boots'll come then." I wondered how he knew Caleb Clamps was to make my boots. I was ignorant that the night previous he had "sparked" a girl in the family where Caleb was then at work. "Here's your article, my boy. Got four cents, hey?" I felt piqued at the doubt he expressed, and drew out a whole handful of villainous copper.   "         MYSELF. "Jehu!" he exclaimed. "Why, you're rich!" He speedily relieved me of four pieces, putting the i skimmer into my hand.  "Look here, little feller, you must buy something else. Here"-he passed down a japanned tin whistle, blowing on it a wheezy blast. "Guess I won't buy," said I, edging off. I didn't like the tone of the instrument.  "Why not? You've got lots of money. P'rhaps you  : don't like the sound of that? Here's a better-toned one." He took down a second that produced a noise more hid-  eous than the first. "Guess I won't buy." And I moved off sidewise again. "Look here, boy,"-the fellow gazed directly at me. "D'you ever read how Franklin bought the whistle?"  "Yes."  "Dang'd if I didn't think so! Wall, you can go." A Yankee, old or young, never allows anything to es- cape his notice. He never sees a thing but he "looks into it." He taps it like a woodpecker, whether it be a crowd of idlers or a problem; a dog-fight or a compli-  cated invention. Nothing is beneath his curiosity;  nothing beyond his attempts at finding out. Yankee-like, I penetrated every crowd; listened to banters for swapping horses; looked in at the candy-  stands to see what they had to vend; investigated the  center of a "card" of gingerbread'and found-flies, and explored the bottom of a glass of dirty compound called lemonade. Then I looked about for new fields to conquer. I found myself, presently, in a secluded spot among a knot of men whose movements greatly interested me. A painted cloth, marked with figures, lay on a table. A man seated at one side shook some ivory cubes with black spots, in a leathern box, while others placed various pieces of  money on the figures of the cloth. The man shaking the cubes threw them on the table and counted the spots. Some of the men took up their money, and another with  a small pile of change passed them more; but the greater  portion of the money they laid down he raked over to his own pile. *        *tc':i : Ai   MYSELF.          47 Curious to investigate this mystery, with a deal of hes- itation, I placed a dime on one of the figures. The two men gave me a sharp look, and I was greatly pleased when he with the money shoved over another dime to me. Grinning, I put it in my pocket, placing my dime on an- other figure, getting for the second venture another dime from the man. I was a very innocent gambler, very young, and very "Iucky," mauger the ill omen of my birth. My win- nings continued till I put several dollars in my pocket. The man kept telling me to "double," but I shook my head as though I understood my business, though what "double" meant I didn't know. At last the man with the cubes offered me a half-dollar to " clear out." It was not a bad operation on his part, for all his other customers had drawn off to observe me. I accepted the offer and went away. The crowd fol- lowed and inquired the amount I had won, but I was cautious, and vouchsafed them no information. I shied away to a distant point in the field, and got down behind a stone-heap and counted it up. I dare not tell the amount. Enough, that I never saw so much together before. I forgot everything-trainers and all-in its contemplation. 'I was started from my position by the rapid approach of Captain Glines's horse company. Their evolutions in- terested me exceedingly. Their red coats, dangling scab- bards, and drawn swords, fox-skin caps, and shakos filled me with admiration. "Ha-alt!"And the company drew up, in shape like a Virginia fence, not twenty feet from me. "R-r-right  a----abeout fa-ace!"And there were spurrings, and rearings, and pitchings, and jerking of reins, and the company faced about, the captain in the rear. "For-rard  ma-arch!"And away went the troop rearward like a crab. "Trot!" "Gallop!" Just then the artillery came out and discharged their field-piece. I sprang forward as if it had been an electric   48          MYSELF. battery. It was rather the loudest gun I had ever heard.  Then there was an outcry. The horses of the troop were . rearing, and pitching, and snorting with fright. Peleg Chandler, who belonged to the company, rode his high- i spirited, handsome "colt," and soon I saw the startled X animal dash from the line and fling his rider headlong to - the ground. Peleg leaped to his feet, shook the dirt from  his uniform, but the " colt" was off. Hundreds of people X pursued him, waving hats and arms; heading him off one : way to have him dash another; " shooing" and hallooing; Q while the "colt," head and tail erect, pranced over the  ground as though he had just awoke to some capital sport.  The circle about him, however, grew "smaller by degrees," : and at last he was captured; and Peleg reseated himself : in the saddle and joined his comrades.  It would be tedious to describe all I saw that day. I  stopped and witnessed the review, and'at a safe distance X viewed the shamfight; saw company after company march  i up and fire volley on volley; saw officers gallop swiftly X over the field, urging the men forward with shout and , gesture; saw the artillery run up and discharge their gun,  and quickly shifting drag-ropes, jerk it back to a secure  position; saw Captain Kyar's company, with fixed bayo-  nets, march up to take it, and saw Captain Glines and his  troops dash down upon them to prevent it. Captain Kyar  faced his men about, they dropped on one knee, and, placing the butts of their muskets to the ground, presented  a line of bristling bayonets to bar the horses' progress.  The artillery ran out again and fired, the report scattering ! the troop like so many sheep. Captain Kyar again came  down with charged bayonets, but the artillery took refuge ! in the rear of several companies, who received the gallant : captain with volleys of musketry, and drove him back. v All this was grand, exciting, sublime. One company, in ' the excitement, had thrown off their boots, and took it - barefoot, acting as skirmishers. There was in one corner of the field a large brier-patch, and the advantage to be ' taken of it was not lost sight of by those whom the skir- mishers annoyed. Under the command of the lieutenant- 11  colonel, a line of infantry was formed, with right and left wings flanking the "sharpshooters," and then with charged !   MYSELF.          49 bayonets the line bore down on the "double quick." The doomed barefoots took to their heels, but the only avenue of escape was though the briers. Into them they went pell-mell. Then there arose a hoarse yell, and the valiant skirmishers went down to a man. This ended the fight, and when it was over there was one company at least that came out pretty thoroughly "scratched." Ever after it was known as the "Barefoot Rangers of Brier Hill." Not till darkness began to settle down on nature did I think to return hbme; and then I left the field with a sigh that the sport was over. I recounted to my parents the scenes that I had wit- nessed, not forgetting the money I had obtained. I was surprised to observe them, when I came to that, look grave, and more to have them tell me that I had been engaged in a very bad act-gambling. Long, but kindly, did my mother speak to me of the heniousness of that vice. She warned me to shun it in the future, as I would every other. Considering that I had gained the money in ignorance of any wrong, my parents decided to purchase with it a yearling heifer, that should be mine. Thus they con- demned the deed I had committed, but accepted its bene- fits. -But perhaps they were as ignorant of wrong in doing it as I had been. The heifer was purchased. It was called mine; but it grew up to cowhood and died in the posses- sion of the family. 5   50          MYSELF. CHAPTER   VI,        ; Which Illustrates the Truth of the Adage, "The course of true love never  runs smooth." '          / AGAIN the pleasant autumn. The cricket chirps beneath the hearthstone and by the roadside. The sky, the atmos- phere, the forests with their variegated hues, the shorn I fields, the fruit-laden tree, soothe and mellow the heart. X The harvesters are at work. The corn has been cut and stowed away on the barn floor to await the revels of the  huskers, leaving the golden pumpkins to dream in the sun- light. The hoe has revealed the treasures of the potato-  field, and busy hands are at work beneath the trees of the i orchard, gathering the apples for the market and the mills. The smoke, with a dreamy haze, veils the face of the hills, hiding the blushing forests. The squirrel chatters merrily in the woods. Troops of pigeons haunt the stub- ble, and from the hill-side you hear the crack of the sports- man's gun, waking the echoes for miles around.      A husking frolic has been planned. All the girls and boys within the circuit of a mile or more had been invited, together with a few elderly persons to keep them "steady,"  and prevent them from turning the intended labor into a mere frolic. The necessary preparations for a bountiful repast at the close had been made by my mother. When night settled down on the earth, the young people came in by couples and by squads,-brothers attend- ing upon sisters, a task though not unpleasant, yet which they managed, through mutual consent, to avoid on re- turning home. Soon the recesses of the old barn echoed the laughter of as merry and industrious a party as ever  assembled. It was early noticed by myself that one familiar face was i absent. Kate Blake was strangely laggard. For awhile I contented myself with thinking that she was neces- sarily detained, and would soon be in. The distance 7!    MYSELF.          5 she had to traverse was so inconsiderable that she would readily come unattended. Yet she came not. At length it was generally noticed. "Where on earth's Kate Blake?" asked one of the girls. "Sure enough!" exclaimed another. "We'll have to ask Whitehead," suggested one of the youths. "Whitehead, where's Kate?" demanded a blooming, bouncing girl on the opposite side of the corn-heap. "I don't know," I replied, affecting carelessness. I must have blushed deeply, or else the bouncing girl had not cried,-- "Lord! how red his face is! It beats that last red ear." "Don't know!" remarked an elderly farmer, who en- tered into the spirit of the younger people. "Don't know! Haven't you been arter her? Then scud! We can't git along without Kate. Prob'ly she's waitin' for you to escort her." "Jest as likely as not," added another. "'Taint every girl that will come alone when she has a beau. Run, you Whitehead, you!" To escape the rallying, I ran out of the barn. Strangely enough, I felt ill at ease,-half vexed at their interference, and half ashamed of my bashfulness. Of late I had noticed a change of feeling towards Kate. My affection for her was more tender, and rooted itself about my heartstrings in a manner that gave me an unaccount- able thrill when I thought of her. My young love, un- known to me, was beginning to show its pin-feathers, and they struck inward and pricked me. I went out into the road, at the top of the hill, and listened to hear if Kate was coming. I thought I might catch the drumming of her feet as she came up the hill. But save the murmuring of the waterfall, where the brook came down over the rocks in the woods north of the orchard, all was quite still. Occasionally, a merry shout came from the huskers in the barn, very much out of tune with my own troubled spirit. When that subsided, I lis- tened again, but I heard no footsteps. "Kate is likely enough afraid," thought I. "She is waiting for me to come for her."   52         MYSELF. I started on a run down the hill, and was soon standing on her father's doorstep. It had not been my custom to use ceremony on visiting that house. I entered without a  knock as readily as I did at home. In fact, I had always been considered almost as one of the family.     - On this occasion I hesitated. A strange chill was at : my heart. I couldn't account for it; and I think I didn't  try. An odd, shapeless fear seized me; and it kept on the increase till I went back and clung to the gate-post for support.                      - I had no thought that Kate was ill; for I had seen her  that afternoon, and she then told me that she should be at the husking. Yet I felt a presentiment of something wrong; of some trouble that had occurred, or was occur- ring. The night breeze revived me. A light shone through the window. I crept up and peeped within. Mrs. Blake was sewing by the light-stand. Mr. Blake was sitting moodily on one side. I could not discern Kate any- where; and then the thought was suggested that she had started for the party, and passed me in the dark. But that could not be. Some accident must have befallen her. I hastened to the door/ and rapped. Mr. Blake an- swered it. "Is Kate gone?"I asked. With a scowl on his features, he replied,-- "No, she ain't. And what's more, she ain't goin' to go, -not t'night!"                 - The answer was very gruff. "She ain't-sick?"I ventured courage to stammer. "No; she's well enough. But she ain't goin', I tell 1 you."  - O  This did not satisfy me, though I lacked courage to push my inquiries. He seemed to divine my thoughts, and volunteered information that I did not care to hear. , "It's 'bout time to put a stop to this 'ere runnin', and I'm goin' to. There's been enough on't; and I ain't  goin' to have it. I tell you she ain't goin' over there  t'night! That's enough, ain't it?" And he banged the door in my face. I stood as one benumbed. Mr. Blake had never treated ?I   MYSELF.          53 me familiarly. He Was by nature as rough in his speech as he was in his habits. The former was relieved, though, by his taciturnity. It was some comfort that so uncouth a man said little. I had been rather an object of indiffer- ence to him. He endured me, as he endured Kate; as he would have endured a cat or a dog-neither caressing nor abusing them; only scolding when we were in his way; and that we took precious care should be seldom. I never knew him positively rude before. His present conduct, therefore, was wholly unaccountable. I turned away and slowly proceeded out of the door- yard, melancholy enough. "What is the matter?"I mentally asked myself. A thought that our intimacy might be suspended or broken swelled in my throat, nearly choking me. For the first time I began to realize how dear Kate was to me. As I was passing by the end of the house, going slowly toward home, a low voice called me. Kate was at her chamber window. I flew beneath the half-raised sash. "Is that you, Kirk?" "Yes. What has happened, Kate?" "I don't know. Something terrible I'm afraid." "What is it? Hasn't anything to do with the husk- ing? Why don't he let you go?" "I was all ready to go and he forbid it, telling me to stay at home. He told me to never go to your house again. Do tell me what's the matter?" "I'm sure I don't know. He never used me as he did just now. He snapped my head half off." "Something's out," said Kate. "He's been real strange all day. He got a letter out of the post-office this morning, and he's been down to the heel ever since. Do you suppose that had anything to do with it?" "I don't know. You haven't been doing anything?" "Me? No-not that I know of." "Nor haven't had any trouble about anything?" "No. Why should I? He hasn't spoke a cross word to me before this evening for a long time." "What did he say about it?"I asked, still pushing my inquiries. "He said I shouldn't go to the husking, and was right 5*   54         MYSELF.  up and down about it. Mother thought if I wasn't there iX 'twould be noticed, and talked about; and if he didn't  want me to go alone he'd better go with me. He said A he didn't care what people said; if they would take care  of their business he would his. And then he said you and I had been running together long enough, and he  i was going to stop it. Dear! dear! what does it mean?" ' I was astounded. The idea that our intimacy was to be  broken up was sorry news indeed.       . "Don't tell the girls what the matter is," said Kate. i "I wouldn't have them know anything about it for the X world. Make some excuse for me."           :; The caution was good, but unnecessary. I heard a door i open.  "s There comes father," said Kate. "Run!"And she hurriedly let down the sash. I flew to the corner of the house, and crouched behind ,: a clump of lilacs. Mr. Blake, bare-headed, came out, looking carefully. He stood gazing at Kate's window, ! muttering to himself; searched about the premises; and  then, as if satisfied that I had vanished, turned and went into the house. Evidently something very important had occurred to  render such an excess of caution necessary. Once more I went under Kate's window, and was about to call her when a light shone into her room. Mr. Blake's  voice was heard, and Kate's in answer. The light then disappeared, and heavy footsteps clattered down the stairs.  The window-sash rose suddenly.  'Kirk! Kirk!" whispered Kate, hurriedly, cFather's  going over to your house. Take care!"        - "And you? Can't you come down after he has gone away and let me in? Your mother won't say anything." "No, no-not to-night. We'll see each other to-mor- row evening. Go quick-.he's coming!"  Already the outer door had shut after him. But I was  nimble, and ran noiselessly out of the yard, down the  road, agitated by strange emotions, and made my way  home. I calmed myself as well as I could before entering the barn.  Well, where's Kate?" asked the huskers. i!"   MYSELF.          55 "At home," I returned, as carelessly as I could. "Why, what's the matter? Ain't she coming?" " No." "Why? She isn't sick?" "She's confined to her room," said I. "Dear me! You don't say!" responded the bouncing girl. "What's the matter?" "e I don't know; but I guess she don't feel very well." The entrance of Mr. Blake saved me further equivoca- tion. "Here's her father," said one. "Is Kate sick, Mr. Blake?" asked one of the girls. "No!"  His voice was as gruff as ever. They all looked at me as if for an explanation. "Isn't she coming to the husking?" asked the bouncing girl. "No!-she ain't!" "Ugh!" was the exclamation aside; "you needn't bite my head off!"No more questions were asked. Mr. Blake was between forty and fifty-a close, petty- calculating, hard-fisted man; of small intellect and few acquirements. He owned, free of incumbrance, a small farm, which he tilled in the usual manner,-that is to say, with short dressings and exhausting crops. He was very penurious. It seemed as though he calculated each winter how little hay he could feed to his cattle, and how much he could sell. Every pound that he could filch from them, even at the expense of their flesh, and add to the quantity he sold, appeared to him as so much gain. All that he could well dispose of was converted to cash. The money he thus acquired was securely invested, and never disturbed. He had no ambition to add to the number of his acres, and none to improve the quality of his tillage. Yet he was tidy withal, and kept everything in order about him. He carefully housed his farming utensils; the shingles on -his roof now and then received an additional nail; and no siding dangled from his dwell- ing; nor was any rubbish allowed to rot about his door- yard, but was scraped up for compost. Further than this, his enterprise did not extend. He annually repaired his fences, but neither rebuilt nor im-   56         MYSELF. proved them. He laid no stone into walls. He occa- sionally cut down the bushes that grew in his pastures, . but took no pains to exterminate them; and so the pro- cess of cutting had to be repeated every year or two. He picked the stones into heaps on ground newly laid down to grass, but never carted them away.         : He was by no means a man who had a natural taste for I farming, taking delight in sowing and tending his crops i and caring for his cattle; but he labored day after day, i that, by dint of pinching and stinting, he might scrape together each year an additional hundred or two dollars. , : He never took a newspaper nor kept a dog, because both ? wefe expensive and neither companionable. A blunt and irreverent wag of the neighborhood speaking of him, de- clared he would die a thousand dollars in debt to his stomach for food justly due but parsimoniously withheld. Mr. Blake was not an old settler in the town. He moved on his place about the time that I began to ply my water-wheels in the brook that ran through his field. He was not an ungracious neighbor, but far from a social one. There was something distant and reserved about him. His company, therefore, was not much sought after; though being respectable, of fair character, and having shares in a State bank and money on deposit, he was made the recipient of one or two petty dignities, the most important office being justice of the peace. Mrs. Blake was quite unlike her husband. The twain were like a bear (not the lion) and a lamb that had lain down together, and Kate was the little child that led- one of them. She was a mild, quiet body, content to maintain the position of the "weaker vessel" that she had assumed at marriage. She never tontradicted-or in- terfered with her husband. She was always sweet-tem- pered, neat in her ways, and made her house like a sunny '- nook in a bleak landscape. Next to my mother there was I no woman I reverenced as I did her.         v Mr. Blake's presence was a dead weight at the husking. \ I All conversation, except in low tones, died out. I sat mute enough. I endeavored to appear as composed as possible, e1 and made myself very diligent in stripping husks; but my , tell-tale countenance betrayed me. Glances and nods and ll   YSELF.          57 winks, and eyes that roved from me to Mr. Blake, told what the younger company thought. Nobody found red ears and nobody claimed forfeits; and nothing was heard but the continued husk-stripping and the rattling of ears of corn as they were thrown into the baskets. At length my father went out of the barn and Mr. Blake followed him. "Good riddance, old hunks!" exclaimed the girl whose inquiries concerning Kate he had cut short. ("I hope he'll run against a knot-hole and stick it into him, so he can't get back ag'in." The departure was the signal for the renewal of the merriment. Red ears were then found fast enough. For- feits were claimed and paid. Jokes and repartees, laughter, kisses, and squeezes prevailed. "Good gracious!" cried one of the girls who had been teased a little more than her patience could bear, " if you keep on actin' so I shall begin to hope Blake'll come back. '" "I sha'n't," said another. "I'd rather kiss all the cows in the tie-ups than see the old pepper-pod again." The bouncing girl-as wild as she was bouncing-came slyly behind me, and pretending to pull a red ear from beneath my stool, accused me of hiding it, and declared I had to " go to Rome" as a forfeit. I hardly need explain the nature of " going to Rome." It meant to kiss all the girls present. I confess it was an appalling undertaking to me then. I have charged batteries on the battle-field since that time, but it was not half so terrible as the thought of facing the batteries of feminine lips that were unmasked on every side of me. I' Begin!" cried she. I made wretched work of it, and the barn rang with laughter. I was more vexed than otherwise, and every new movement added to it. The girls were apparently so coy and backward, and yet when I had them beyond escape, they put their lips passionately to my mouth and smacked me as if they were fond of it. The bouncing girl came last. She ran off into a corner of the barn, where it was dark, and as I found her, gave me a very tender kiss and squeeze of the hand, and then   58         MYSEL F.  undertook to pump from me the secret of the difficulty , about Kate. I was proof against her blandishments. I was convinced of her kind regard, for she assured me she  was sorry, and hoped it would soon blow over-Kate was A such a nice girl!                   X Shortly after I managed to slip away from the barn, I and crept off to bed, and had my first sorrows in love all 7;r to myself. Some of the young men were for pulling me out, but the girls took my part and said that I should not ; be disturbed. The following day my father asked me how often I   ' visited at Mr. Blake's. It was an unexpected inquiry, and caused me, as young smokers say of their meerschaums, to "color finely." I stammered out a white lie,-- "Not very often."                  Ad "Very well; keep away from there altogether." Keep away from there! I turned from red to pale, and :! then from pale to red, very red again. I said nothing, but as I walked off and went about my work, like the Irishman's parrot, I was "busy thinking." Keep away from there! What did all this mean? The more I thought the more was I perplexed. Then I grew indig- nant. Here were commands without explanations; ill   : treatment without assigned reason; arraignment and con- demnation without trial, and without leave even of put- ting in a plea of "not guilty." My rebellious nature ! demurred at the procedure. I was getting too old for a :  mere child, to be commanded about in this manner.   . Then I set to reasoning over it. A youngster in love is not much of a philosopher. Unlike Plato, perhaps, though I reasoned, I did not reason well. My reasoning ' I was not from analogy, for I knew of n6 case analogous. - I reasoned in a circle, coming out where I started without deriving much satisfaction in my wanderings. My style \:; was more splenetic than analytic, and was carried to a Ij point that might be termed the reductio ad absurdurm. I kA turned the matter over in my mind, however, as industri-  ously as a sailor revolves his quid. All day I contemplated, and all day tried to conjecture the trouble; but I could not even guess it. There was one theory, however, to which I was somewhat inclined.   MYSELF.          59 I was getting on toward manhood (I involuntarily passed my hand over the incipient down on my chin), when at- tentions from one sex to the other is construed into some- thing more serious than mere children's friendships There was danger of my falling in love with Kate. This was clear even to the sluggish perception of her father. If that were so, he had waked up to a realization of the fact too late. The mischief was already done. I confessed to myself that I loved Kate dearly, and meant, if I could, to some time make her my wife. That settled, the ques- tion turned on the approbation or disapprobation of the old folks. Her father was certainly opposed. I had dem- onstration of it. He communicated his opposition to my father, the night before, when he followed him out of the husking-barn, and hence my father's inquiry and com- mand. So far I got on well with my thinking. But why should Mr. Blake oppose me? Wasn't I "good enough" for her? In point of respectability both families were nearly on a level. My parents were church communicants- Congregationalists. Mrs. Blake was a member of the Methodist church. Mr. Blake, though a regular attendant at church, was not a professor. Insensibility on religious matters was his characteristic. The droppings of the sanctuary made as little impression on him as the drop- pings of water on stone. He could apprehend God's blessings-in a fruitful year; much in the same manner as the swine under the oak in autumn looks upward, but only to listen for the fall of an acorn. The most impor- tant and interesting portion of the Bible to him was that which related to the deluge--not so much that it drowned mankind, but that it destroyed all the crops and cattle. But Mr. Blake was not likely to look at my respectability from this stand-point. 'My father owned the larger num- ber of acres of land (I have since often thought the more he owned the poorer he was), but I had heard it was in- volved, though an older brother had volunteered to raise the mortgage, when the time came, and redeem it. Per- haps Mr. Blake was acquainted with my father's embar- rassments, and opposed me on that account. How indig- nant I felt!' In his estimation I was the son of a poor   60         MYSELF.              ? man. Ah, indeed! What was he? His farm was worth, perhaps, eight hundred dollars. He was possessed of, :- perhaps, twice as much more in money. This was his   i: wealth. One of my brothers, who had been working out  ^! for eight or ten years, " a solitary old bachelor," was re- puted to be worth quite as much as Mr. Blake. After all, I felt there was something in this question of riches. Twenty-four hundred dollars--sixteen hundred of it in cash-falling to one heir like Kate, was some- thing. There was no arguing it away. The same sum, provided my father had it, distributed equally among his fifteen children, was spreading a patrimony quite too thin. I made the application at once-I was to Kate Blake as one to fifteen. Put into the moneyed scale, she would weigh down fifteen just such youngsters as I.         i This view of matters was not cheering. My mind again recurred to my money-saving brother. He had managed  to lay up from two to three hundred dollars annually. What hindered me from doing it? I was considered quite as "smart" as any of the family; though being the youngest I was consequently a -little " spoiled." I was a  fair scholar, tolerably quick-witted-not vicious. I had j contracted no idle, dissolute, nor expensive habits. If ; poverty, then, was the only bar to favor with Mr. Blake, I : would overcome that. I had health, strength, and-will; w and '" where there's a will there's a way." The period when I would be master of my own time would soon arrive. Then I would lay claim to my own earnings, and I would save them. I confess when I thought of the example of my brother, it was not encouraging. He had laid away some fifteen hundred to two thousand dollars in the cohrse of eight years. The means by which he accumulated this amount was strictly honest, but it did not suit my taste. He had toiled early, summer and winter,-through fair weather and foul. I did not object to that. I, too, could do it. He had  i: denied himself of comforts and conveniences. I could A do that. He had barely half-clothed himself-was de- cidedly shabby. I thought Kate would hardly fancy that in me. He indulged himself with no books nor news- papers-never read. I was very fond of reading, and  d hl   MYSE LF.          6i would spend all my money for books. He knew only enough to be a good farm-hand. My ambition soared to something higher, though I had no definite idea, then, as to what it should be. He followed the old-fashioned routine, plodding ever. My nature rebelled-I wanted to strike out for improvements. He cared only for money, picking it up in his petty, miserly way, and saving it as though it was his only happiness. I looked on money as valuable because of the benefits and position it would confer. My mother often said my brother's money would do him no good; that when he had, little by little, picked up. enough for the enjoyment of life, his powers of enjoy- ment would be choked out and dead-" winter-killed." His desire for getting money would increase with its in- dulgence. Money would come at last to be his god. Prophetic mother! She prayed that no more of her children might be like him; and so I resolved, as I thought about it in connection with Kate, not to follow his ex- ample. I would not worship Love and Plutus together, for fear Plutus might gain the ascendency. And yet I resolved if money was the only "open sesame" to my hopes, I would have it. I had two more years to remain at home. I could wait. I had no doubt but Kate would wait likewise. I knew her spirit. Then I would show what could be done. I didn't purpose imitating Jacob and serve Mr. Blake seven years for Kate, but if neces- sary, I would serve some one else twice seven years for the means to make myself favorable in his eyes. That was a memorable day with me. It was my first inventory of life and its prospects. My estates being all situated in Spain, they were very valuable. A young chick just pipping the shell of love, I swelled into full size and feather as I thought of my future prowess. My first new boots were nothing in comparison; nor was my maiden ballot, as a free and independent citizen of the republic. 6   62         If YSELF. CHAPTER VII, In which Love laughs at Obstacles, and gets the worst of it. WHEN the evening meal was over, and I was preparing to leave the house, my father looked up from his paper and asked,- "Where are you going, Kirk?" "Nowhere-in particular."  I lied, for I was going to see Kate. Don't go to Mr. Blake's-remember that," said he. His words were emphatic-I thought rather more so than usual. I had never been a disobedient son, but I felt then very like disobeying. "I'm not going there," I returned,-I suspect rather unamiably. "Very well." And he went on with his reading. I went out the door muttering something about ill usage. My father called me back. "Kirk," said he, "I don't wish you to think that I forbid you going to Mr. Blake's because of anything you've done; but 'tis his wish that you keep away from there, and I won't have one of my children causing him trouble. So remember what I tell you." I made no answer, but walked off. So Mr. Blake was in earnest about this thing, and I was not to go there more. Well, I wouldn't. I would "whip the devil round the stump." If the mountain couldn't go to Mohammed, Mohammed should be taken to the mouhtain. If I couldn't go to Kate, I'd bring her to me. There was a circuitous way of accomplishing my purpose that would not involve  disobedience to parental authority; and to get at it I took  a circuitous route-out to the barn, then down roupd a through the orchard into the road. One of my country accomplishments was the imitation of the cries of animals. I could bark like a fox, and so natu- rally as to deceive Reynard himself. The old house- dog, Growler, never could understand it. There was one   MYSELF.          63 who detected the sham, and that was Kate. She knew it from the genuine from its locality. Foxes didn't bark in the highroad, nor in orchards, nor about farm- houses. I went half-way down the hill, sat down on a stone and barked. The second cry brought Growler down on me in full yelp. I called him to me, patted him on the head, and barked again. He whined and moved restlessly, as if to say that it was all very singular. Then I sat still and kicked the gravel. Presently I heard a light footstep, the rustle of a dress, saw the outline of a female form, and I rose and clasped Kate's hands within my own. "I told you I'd see you," she said; "but I ran away to do it. Father thinks I'm in my room." "You are lucky in being able to come to me," I replied, "for my father has forbid me from going to your house any more. But he needn't worry. There's more than one way to kill a cat-I'm not going." "Oh, no! you must not come there any more," she ex- claimed. "Mother told me to tell you. Father's deter- mined on it. Mother feels very bad. She's real sorry for what was said last night; but she won't tell me what the trouble is. For mercy's sake, do you know?" "Not more than the man in the moon." We had de- scended the hill together, and I had drawn her within the shadow of some maples and pines. "Perhaps we can guess?" "Do guess, then, please, for I can't. I don't see why a dog should be treated so. I'm certain we haven't done anything to merit it." "We have loved each other," said I, tenderly. "Suppose we have? We have been children together, and all children should love each other, shouldn't they?" "But we are getting rather large for children, now." Her fingers quivered a little beneath my grasp. "We are quite grown." "Well, should we hate each other because of that?" "No; but then--" "Well-then?" "Your father may think there is such a thing as our loving each other too much."   "         MYSELF. "Too much, Kirk! We can't love each other more   : than we always have. We have always been as brother and sister." "That's it," said I. "Brother and sister is what we ?is have been. It is coming to something more serious. There is another kind of love."' I hesitated, and she remained silent, her eyes cast to the ground.                       ' Our affections," continued I, "are more like that of a grown people, and your father's afraid we'll be wanting to -to-to-marry." "But we don't want to marry," said she, looking slyly up into my face. "I'm certain I don't. Why, we're not old enough." "No; but that isn't all. If it were, I wouldn't care. He is opposed to our ever marrying." "You don't know that," said she. "It is looking too long ways ahead for him. Don't you think so?" "I don't know. If he wasn't he would say something. Why did he tell father he didn't want me round your house any more?"                  : "Did he?"And Kate's hands twitched nervously.   - "'Well, I can't help it," she uttered. "They taught us to like each other. If 'tis a sin, 'tis their sin."  "But 'tisn't a sin." "As for marrying," said she, "I never thought of that in my life; but if I ever do marry, it will be with some- body I love." "And you love me," said I, giving her hand a squeeze. "How do you know?" "You said so." "Did I?" "Didn't you?"  "Then, I'll marry you-whep the time comes."    I Suddenly a hoarse voice sounded through the darkness, j calling her name. j. "Oh, heavens, it's father!" she cried, clinging wildly  to me. "What shall I do? He's found out I'm gone." W "Never mind him," said I, courageously,-I was a man - then. "He can't find you here, and we may as well be hanged for an old sheep as a lamb."         I -          W;St   :MYSELF.         65 "But if he finds out I'm with you!" she whispered, in an agony of fright. "Do, do! let me go!" I wasn't detaining her. She was clinging of her own accord to my arms. I entertained a malicious joy, as I heard her father call again, and fancied his rage at her absence. "Kate Blake, I say 1" The summons was fiercer than ever, followed by mut- terings we couldn't make out. "I must go!" exclaimed Kate. "Dear, dear, what shall I do?" We heard the gate shut, and footsteps coming down to the road. Kate was wild with terror, butI comforted her with the assurance that we were safe from discovery, and that while her father came down by the pathway and bridge, she could climb the fence, cross the field and brook, and reach the house unseen. I assisted her over, and bid her keep within the shadows, and step as lightly as possible. "Good-night, Kirk," whispered she. A warm tear fell on my hand. "Let us meet again soon." "Yes, yes," said I, "as often as you like." She flung her arms about my neck as I leaned across the fence, and nestled her face a moment to mine, and then vanished. I remained quiet, listening. I heard the clumping of Mr. Blake's feet across the little bridge, heard the gate to the road creak in opening and closing; but no sound came from Kate. I was assured she had safely crossed the brook, and I ran across the road, vaulted over the stone wall, and crouched down behind it. Presently Mr. Blake came up and strictly searched the spot we had occupied. He came back into the road, and, with stentorian lungs, called, "Kate Blake " "Here, father!" was returned by a sweet voice from the house. How I smiled, all to myself! "Rat it!" he exclaimed, "she's to home. It's prob'ble the gal hain't been out of the house. She's been round in some hole or chimbly-corner cryin'. I wish I'd never seen 6*   "         MYSELF.              I her! If that 'ere Whitehead comes round her any more,  I'll wollop his hide for him!"  "No, you won't!"I mentally ejaculated, triumphantly. J Mr. Blake retraced his steps to the house, and I crawled [} up and sat down on the wall i I sat silently to catch some sound from Mr. Blake's  to denote the meeting of father and child; but all was  quiet. The waterfall above me murmured plaintively,  and from far across the pastures came the hootings of an owl.  A half-hour passed, and still I sat there, dreaming. I heard neither waterfall nor owl. The starry canopy above was unnoticed. I was reveling in a fancy world. : Life was unfolding itself, like a moving panorama, before me. The horizon receded as I advanced. I rode without : touching the earth; I flew without wings. All was joyous. .i No longer a boy, I made myself-in imagination-the  hero of brave exploits. Then I awoke. The stars twinkled above me, the water-  fall moaned, the owl hooted; and I sat kicking with my  heels the cold, gray stones.  Again I meditated. I was very brave. Had I not in-  creased in importance within two days? I was an object of fear-at least, to one man. I was an object of-love, to one woman; for Kate was a woman, now she had a  woman's love.                     X I looked to the future with a cheerful glance. I forgot all possible (and, under the circumstances, quite probable) slips "'twixt the cup and the lip." I dreamed that Kate was Mrs. "Whitehead." A snug house and little farm were our portion. She presided in the former like a divinity; and I tilled the other industriously as a bee. But it is useless to go further on that point. I was getting along too fast. A very pleasant dream it was;  but when I was aroused from it, there were the waterfall sighing, the owl hooting, the stars twinkling, and my feet  kicking the stones.                  , A whistle down the road attracted my attention. I recognized its owner to be my cousin and schoolmate, Ben Morrison. He was coming up the road whistling "Malbrouk's gone into the Army," to keep himself com-   MYSELF.          67 pany. Ben was about my size, and we were on intimate terms. We often had our little confidences, and Ben had proved a faithful repositor and excellent adviser. I leaped down from the wall. "Halloo, Whitehead, is that you? Trying to scare me, eh? But I don't scare-not much." "I didn't think of it," I replied. "Where are you going? Over to see Kate?" "No." "The dern you ain't-when she's goin' off so soon? "Going off so soon!"I gasped. "Going-where?" "Jest as though you didn't know now," laughed Ben. "Why, how stupid! Didn't you know, though, that Kate's goin' off to school?" "No? She isn't," I uttered. "Fact!" I felt weak in the knees; and asked Ben what he knew about it. "Why, her dad told mine to-day that he was goin' to send her right away; and the girls are makin' her dresses.' I heard this with my blood at a much lower tempera- ture than when I kicked my heels against the stones. I felt that I was foiled. All my dreams were scattered to the winds, and life was prosy once more. If she was only to remain at home, we two could outwit a dozen parents; but to separate us was like plucking out my eyes. With her near me, I was a young Samson; but with her away I was shorn, bound with withes, and blind, with no pillar to cling to nor pull down! Kate Blake was the world to me. Without her I was a plank on the ocean, drifting at the mercy of wind and wave. But-I caught at a straw-Ben might have "fibbed." He might in sport have deceived me. If this were so, Kate would have informed me. She would not conceal so important a matter from my knowledge. Oh, it was all a joke! I could see it plain enough; and so I told Ben. I asked him if he thought me "green." But Ben protested that it was true. There was no joke at all about it; it was so. "The old man got the dress-patterns to-day, and they   68         MYSELF. are makin' 'em up now.. I'm going up to your house just on an errand, and if you don't believe me, you go home and stay with me to-night and I'll show you." He spoke to leaden ears. "What do you say to that ?" he asked, slapping me on the back. "I To what ?" "Why, to what I said about your goin' home with me." - " What for ?" "Jiminy! how stupid you are!"  Ben repeated his proposition, to which I assented on condition that my parents gave their consent. " Oh, they'll let you. I'll ask 'em. I want to tell you about How far he proceeded, or what he said, I had no knowledge. A punch in my ribs aroused me, " Halloo ! what ails you, stupid ? What are you thinkin' on?" "Nothing." " Get out! Yes, you are! You are thinkin' 'bout Kate's goin' off. Look here, Whitehead, what's the matter 'tween you and her? You've had a fallin' out. She wa'nt to the huskin' last night. You did know she's goin' off." "No I didn't," I replied, somewhat tartly. " Honor bright?" " Honor bright." "Well, that's strange. There's some trouble. Let's know what 'tis. Perhaps I can help you." It required little teasing for me to make Ben my con- fidant, first securing his promise of secrecy and fidelity. " D'you ever know me to tell anything you told me ?" he asked, indignantly. Of course I never did; so I went on with my tale of sorrows. I did not finish before we arrived at our house, where Ben did his errand, and obtained permission for me to go and spend the night with him. We started off, and I finished the narrative. "Dern old Blake- lick him!" exclaimed Ben, as I closed.   MYSELF.          69 The idea struck me forcibly, but not favorably. Such a procedure would be too much like that of the son who "took after his father"--with a club 1 Flogging a man for declining to be one's father-in-law was an idea so novel that I laughed. The result of such an attempt might be classed among those doubtful things which are "very uncertain." But the advice was characteristic of Ben. He fought his way everywhere. Pugnacious but generous, he stood ready to whip his weight of any live thing; and then do the party a favor immediately after. Nothing was so pleasant to him as to "lick" out opposition, whether it came from a mate at school, or a problem in Adams's Arithmetic. Though Ben acknowledged alle- giance to none but his parents, he tyrannized over nobody; and ever stood ready to lend a helping hand to the weak and irresolute, fighting half their battles for them. It may be readily supposed, therefore, that Ben advised no yielding on my part. "Stick to her! Don't be butter-fingered and let 'em slip her away from you! If you can't get her without, why, when the time comes--dern it, run away with her! That's what I'd do! I'd have the girl I wanted if I had to fight the whole town! A feller's got no gizzard if he don't stand right up to it and let 'em have it back jest as good as they send! I reckon twenty dads wouldn't get ahead of me!" I found on getting to Ben's house that he had told me truly. His sisters were making dresses for Kate. The girls rallied me about losing my sweetheart, but Ben took me away from their annoyance, to bed. There we lay and talked over plans to circumvent Mr. Blake. Ben de- clared that he would assist me to the extent of his powers. He suggested that if she was sent away to school, I could correspond with her at all events. To prevent suspicion, he would have my letters inclosed to an acquaintance in a neighboring town, with instructions that he forward them to Kate from his post-office. She could send her letters to me through the same channel. If her father could detect this method, then, as Ben reckoned, he would be a " derned sight smarter than he has ever been." The following day it became generally known that Kate   70          MYSELF.       .  was going away, for the winter, to an academy in a neigh- boring town. Each confirmation served to increase my t dejection. Hitherto, during the winter months, we had X been almost inseparable companions. We had always at- i:/ tended school in company, and had spent many of our i  evenings over our lessons together. I felt truly that I was exchanging my careless, unburdensome, happy youth for the hard and stern opening realities of life.    : I chafed and fretted all day. This sudden exhibition ; of parental opposition to a life-long intimacy I felt to be uncalled for. Being unexplained, I looked upon it as  persecution. Not over-anxious to suffer martyrdom, I ! felt justified in resisting their efforts with all the art and  force that I could command. So I resolved to meet sub-  tlety with subtlety. Parental match-making and match- : marring were never taught in New England schools; and  scarcely ever in New England homes. I was in nowise disposed to have an exception made in my case. I was t emphatically "spunky."                i I was well assured that Kate was to be sent away to ; school to remove her from my presence and influence. It stung me deeply. What was it but censure, and the most  galling censure,--an ex parte condemnation?  That afternoon my father was the recipient of a second visit from Mr. Blake. What the interview amounted to I was kept in ignorance of. That it concerned me, I was X satisfied. After Mr. Blake went away, my father looked : exceedingly angry. Once I caught him eyeing me; but  I I said nothing and kept about my work, while he also i remained silent., After supper, however, he pointedly  remarked,-                      . "Kirk, you will stay in the house this evening."  X I was unprepared for that. I had laid plans for some- thing which this order wholly upset. I submitted with all the grace that I was master of, in-  wardly resolving that I would see Kate the next evening, ;t come what might. But the next day Kate was conveyed away to school by  her father, and instead of seeing her that evening as I had promised, I went off by myself and-shall I confess E it?-.brave boy that I was, H-I--cried!    MYSELF.          7  Those who grow tender and sentimental over the re- cital of the loves of an Abelard and Heloise, should not smile at me. What brother of tny age weeping over a violent separation from a much-loved sister, would not have the sympathy of all the generous? No brother ever loved sister as I loved Kate. True, it was only the love of a country youngster; but it was a very serious thing to me. Human nature is quite the same, I suppose, in all conditions in life. The poor and the obscure love quite as ardently as the rich and learned; and a disappointment in love is felt by them quite as acutely. Our cups of sor- row can be filled quite as full, and being less in capacity run over the sooner. I fear I made some bad resolves that night. At any rate, I was in the mood. I felt that the present state of affairs was owing to no fault of mine. I had learned to love Kate when I was a child-when I was taught to love everybody-though I learned to love her a little the best! I loved her as I would a twin sister. Surely that was no sin. I was even encouraged in it, and our childish inti- macy was the subject of considerable notice, comment, and commendation. If Mr. Blake did not approve it, he never disapproved it. Then had been the best time to nip the growing affection-in the tender bud. Ordinary perception might have foreseen the consequences. It is quite possible that our love had remained for a long time simply childlike, had not sudden opposition blown it to a fierce blaze. What my nature originally was it is difficult to say. The tragic event of my early school-boy days had given me a cast of melancholy. I was inclined to be taciturn; and was generally submissive to injury; but the present state of things threatened a total change. I know not what might have happened, to what an extent I might have gone in recklessness, had it not been for the restrain- ing influence of my mother. Ah! who can estimate such an influence? Admonitions and restraints from a father may all be proper and salu- tary, but compared to a kind mother's teachings-teach- ings of one who listens to and sympathizes with all the little griefs and complaints of her offspring, who secures   72          MYSELF.              X not only their love but their confidence, and appeals to : and strengthens their sense of duty toward themselves, ! their fellows, and Heaven, the influence of a father is but X as a drop to the whole bucket. I could go to any length - that would not grieve my mother. Beyond that I could  ;: not pass.                       . : The season that followed was dull indeed. Kate being a removed, no further restraints were laid on my move- ments by my father. I wrote to her according to the   - arrangement I had made with Ben Morrison, but no answer was returned. I wrote again; but with no better success. Ben wrote to his friend to inquire if the fault was there; but answer was returned that the letters had been dispatched according to directions. I wrote a third time. Still no answer. Winter was half gone, and I despaired of receiving any letters from Kate. Wonderful masters of strategy were Ben and I! - We dived so deep in its waters that we brought mud from the bottom. How easy and how simple it was for Mr. Blake  i to say to the principal of the academy on delivering Kate i to his charge, "I want you to open all the letters that come to her! If there are any that I don't write, send 'em to me." And then, naturally enough, going to the post-office, he said to the postmaster, "I've just put my girl up here to school. The letters that come to her you can give to the principal." So while I was pining over the inexplicable delay of Kate in answering my letters, she, poor girl, was mourn- ing my neglect to write; and the vegetative father was spending his evenings in deciphering my scrawls and secrets. Cuteness is a- born trait of the Yankee; but then it must have time to develop itself. No arithmetic can make two : boys of seventeen equal one man of forty!       a A great change was soon perceptible in my habits and I'5 disposition. My appetite for study was gone. I was reprimanded atschool frequently. I grew reckless; and ? as I fancied I detected a look of triumph in Blake's eyes whenever I met him, I began to hate him with an intense hatred, which I fancied he reciprocated.  One day while passing along the narrow roadway to the   MYSELF.           73 village, I met him returning in his rickety sleigh. I turned out into the deep snow sufficiently for him to pass, but as he came opposite he jerked his horse out of the path and pushed me still farther into the drifts. But then his reins were crossed, and it might have been his intention to draw the animal to the opposite direction. I vowed revenge for the act; and that night, with Ben Morrison-our feet incased in some very large boots that we "borrowed" for the occasion-dragged the old sleigh from Mr. Blake's door-yard, took it a half-mile away, and dashed it to pieces down a precipice. I lost a mitten during the scrape, and was much troubled lest I should be discovered in consequence; but I heard nothing from it. Mr. Blake evidently suspected us, but the large tracks defied his investigation. CHAPTER VIII. How we mobbed the "Jeffersonian Atheneum and Jackson Debating Club," and what came of it. THE "Jeffersonian Atheneum and Jackson Debating Club" held weekly meetings in the district school-house, calling out full audiences. With others came the boys of the district. The schoolmaster, and a young towns- man, since somewhat distinguished as a radical reformer, were the luminaries of the association. The questions for discussion were frequently beyond the comprehension of us school-boys, if not beyond the comprehension some- times of those who took part in the debates. Some of the older boys were admitted members of the "Atheneum."   I was the youngest of that favored class, and my share of the exercises was to--tend the fire! Mere " lookers-on in Vienna" were we so far as the dis- cussions were concerned; but when the questions were taken we were all allowed a vote, which we invariably threw in favor of the schoolmaster, because in addition to 7   74          MYSELF.              I his being a ready debater and something of a humorist ,.  he was very popular as a pedagogue. On all questions he - was sure of our votes at the start.       ^   . One of the older boys of our school prided himself on :: his accomplishment as a declaimer. He obtained permis-  sion from the managers of the "Atheneum" to recite, at one of the meetings, Halleck's "Marco Bozzaris." He  started out finely; but on coming to the line,-- "When Greece, her knee in suppliance bent," he unfortunately made the pause at the wrong place, divid- ing the line in equal parts. He might have got over it,  had not Ben Morrison just then called out, "What did he  grease her knee for?" That boy eschewed declamation  ever after; but he had gained, if not immortality, at least - a name, and was known to all of us as "Young Grease- . her-Knee.'"  ,:  As the parts assigned us in the "Jeffersonian Atheneum -- and Jackson Debating Club" were not sufficient to occupy  our full attention, we were not long in hunting up where- withal to fill the gap. To keep boys out of mischief they  must be employed about something innocent or useful. We had no such sufficient employment; so we took to mischief.  The village store was filled with a heterogeneous stock of  goods. It was a little piece of commercial patch-work,  made up of odds and ends. Hardware and dry-goods,   - codfish and laces, tailors' cloths and wooden-ware, brown  sugars and silks, nuts, candies, brown soap and millinery ; goods were all sold from the same counter. Butter and eggs  paid for tea and a bonnet. Corn, rye, and oats paid for  sugar, salt, and a silk dress. The village boys did about i4 all the cash trade,-investing their spire coppers for nuts,  candies, and gingerbread.  On account of the meetings of the "Jeffersonian Athe- neum and Jackson Debating Club," the storekeeper laid in an extra supply of sweetmeats, and was rewarded for his enterprise with an increased cash trade every club-night.  Long before the hour for calling the meeting to order we began our labors, and by the time the exercises were com- menced the floor of the school-house was plentifully strewn  with litter. Under every seat a nut-shell was placed, and .   ' ' ]li   MYSELF.          75 not a movement was made unaccompanied with a snap. A female sat down only to spring to her feet again in fright, at a loud cracking beneath her, the boys joining in with a chorus of tittering. The nuisance became so intolerable that the subject was brought to the notice of the meeting, when, after de- bate, it was solemnly enacted that "Henceforth, here and hereafter, there shall be no more cracking of nuts in the house." After that the boys brought the nuts already cracked! The evil increased. During whole sessions in- visible hands flung shells continually. Even the counte- nance of the chairman was made a target; and it was considered a great achievement by the young rascals if they could hit him directly on the tip of his nose. Still greater was the feat to project a shell into the mouth of the speaker. The method of operation was to place the shell on the desk, and with the thumb and forefinger snap it with almost unerring aim to the place desired. A graceless lot of scamps were we, no doubt; but events were transpiring that gave a sort of countenance to our annoyances. The debates of the "Jeffersonian Atheneum and Jackson Debating Club" took a broad reach. Every- thing in politics, morals, and religion were taken up and handled with hands as rough as those that guided the plow. The religious speculations advanced gave great offense to the strict orthodox people of the neighborhood. The schoolmaster's opponent broached theories that startled more than the "Seven Sleepers." The Rip Van Winkles were in commotion. Murmurings were heard; and sub- dued threats of closing the school-house to the club. Boys are observant; and so we depended on this growing op- position to shield us from punishment for our offenses. Finding the enactment against nut-cracking to be a "dead letter," they next resolved that "Any boy here- after detected in the act of cracking, projecting, or throw- ing a nut, or the shell, or the part of a shell of a nut, shall be expelled the house." The resolution was drawn up and introduced by the schoolmaster's opponent, was ad- vocated by the twain, and passed unanimously-the boys withholding their votes. This put a stop to the annoy- ance for that evening; but the next we came prepared for   76         MYSELF.              / a storm. The exercises were scarcely commenced before one was detected and turned out. Another was soon served in a like manner; then another; when all the boys arose and followed him. We made more noise on the outside of the house than we did on the inside. Imagine the war-whoops of the Comanches! The sheet-iron fire-fender made excellent thunder,-as good as that manufactured by the property- man in our metropolitan theaters. A bull-dog was driven from one of the sleighs, and took refuge in the entry. Here he made a stand, growling and snarling at both out- siders and insiders. The boys armed themselves at the wood-pile, marched up and discharged their pieces (of wood) at the animal. The projectiles went crashing into the entry. The dog rushed out, yelling with pain, and ran limping off with a broken leg to his home. This was too much. A sally was made from the inside. A portion of the boys were captured; but a larger portion took to their heels and were hotly pursued. "This way !" shouted Ben Morrison to me, taking the lead. A half-dozen were on our track. We led them a long, weary chase, till the pursuers dwindled down to an equal number with ourselves. Ben was out of my sight in ad- vance. The enemy was close behind. I darted over a fence, into a barn-yard, ran through and scattered a flock of sheep, and took refuge under a shed. "This way, Whitehead !" cried Ben, popping up from under some hay in the rack. I leaped in beside him, and the hay covered us. The scattering of the sheep again denoted that we were none too soon. A long search ensued. "They came in here!" said a voice betraying Ben's older brother, Zeb. "If I knew Ben was one of 'em, I'd lick him !" "You can't do it !" shouted Ben, jumping out of the rack. The two brothers grasped, and Ben tumbled Zeb into the straw and sheep-dirt. "Pull him off!" shout Zeb to his companion. "Take care; or I'll lick you both !" cried Ben.   I looked up and saw the other was my brother Jim, of whose prowess I stood in healthy fear. So I hesitated about joining in the melee. But other assistance was at hand. As Jim was in the act of stooping down to pull Ben from his prostrate brother, an old ram belonging to the flock of sheep penned in the yard, that had been snuffing the battle not " afar off," considering it a " free fight," bore down on the scene of conflict under full head, and taking my brother in the rear, sent him, with a leap- frog movement, over the prostrate combatants and half- way through the rail-fence inclosure. Before he could recover, the ram was at him  again, and drove him com- pletely through the fence, and he lay limp and helpless on the other side. This unexpected attack diverted the attention of the two brothers. Ben had time to get out of the way, but as Zeb was scrambling to his feet, the ram, seeking new fields to conquer, took him when half- way up, and, as prize-fighters say, "sent him to grass.'' He had barely time to get out of the way and over the fence to save a   second  assault.  Meantime  Ben had scrambled upon the hay-rack, where he flopped his arms and crowed in imitation of chanticleer. Zeb proposed to come back to the charge, but my brother was too much disabled, and the two drew off in order, leaving the field to Ben and his four-footed ally. Ben jeered them as they retreated, and was anxious to know how they liked it-" as far as they had gone."  He thought it was '" ram-bunctious." The next day Ben and I and a half-dozen others were arrested on a charge of riot ! To my particular terror, the complaints were made returnable before  Justice Blake. It is but fair that I should say I had not retired to my bed the night previous before I repented my share in the scrape. When I was taken out of the school-room, there- fore, by a deputy-sheriff from a neighboring town, images of houses of correction floated before my imagination. Whlen I learned that I was to be examined before Mr. Blake, I felt myself condemned and sentenced in advance. I did not much dread my father's resentment. He was one of those who condemned the religious theories broached in the "Atheneum." Prejudice against the society led 7*  78 * ,0'MYSELF.  him to be lenient with me. I had heard him express the opinion, intended for the ears of my mother only, that the nut-cracking boys were in much better business than X those who attempted to crack intellectual nuts so much beyond their comprehension.             - e On hearing of my arrest, he came at once to visit me ?? where I was shut up in a back room of the store. I heard  him remark, as he came in, to one who said Mr. Blake  : was the justice,-               A "Then the boy is as good as found guilty and sentenced already. It's an outrage. He's not an impartial justice -any more than he is competent." This was an unusual speech for my father.      :: The trial was set down for the following day. All the other boys were released on small recognizances, but in my case a bail of two hundred dollars was demanded. . This my father refused to find, and left me in the hands . of the officer. That worthy was inclined to laugh at the I whole proceeding. "Well, youngster," said he, as we were left alone,  "how would you like to go down and see my wife to-  j : night?" I was rather pleased than otherwise, but it was pretty /? cold, and threatened a storm.            , rI "I don't know," said he, after his horse and sleigh F ; were brought to the door; "there'll be a rousin' storm,  - to-night, and mebbe we can't get up in the mornin' ag'in.  Got a spare horse-stall up to your house?"      ;- I replied in the affirmative. "And a spare bedi       ?  "Yes, sir."         t "Jump in, then."  In five minutes we were at my father's door. 4' I kinder thought your boy wouldn't sleep well away ? from home," said the sheriff, as my father and brother came to the door; " so, if you'll jest put up my horse I'll stay here to-night with him."            i The horse was well cared for, and so was the sheriff. i During the evening my father and he discussed the his- C tory and genealogies of half the people of each other's  neighborhoods, giving the names of the families they mar- Ai   MYSELF.          79 ried into, the number of their children, whereabouts, oc- cupations, and prospects. The sheriff's acquaintance had been extended, and to some rather shocking. There wasn't a family among the whole of them that he hadn't visited professionally, suing some and serving processes for others. He slept in the best bed, while I spent a restless night, listening to the howling of the storm, driving the falling snow furiously into heaps, and even drifting it through the crevices of the window-sash on my bed. The examination the next day was held in the town- house, and notwithstanding the roads were blocked up, people came in, some on snow-shoes, till it was well filled. The school was dismissed, for no girls ventured out, and half the boys were summoned as witnesses. The school- master, too, being a student-at-law, was engaged as counsel for the prosecution. It would seem natural that his usual opponent had taken up the defense; but he was, in theory, a non-resistant, and therefore declined. He would not be present even at the hearing, and roundly denounced the whole proceeding as iniquitous. The defense was conducted by a young fellow of the town named Jotham Hopkins,-an odd fish, with a genius for everything in general and nothing in particular. He was a "Jack-at-all trades," requiring a "poor-man's plaster" to draw him from any new project back to an old one. His head was a budget of notions, none of them of any great value. His last notion was that of law. He seemed to have a natural genius for that; and there was some likelihood of his sticking to it. Being odd, he took an odd way in studying. He entered his name at an office in a neighboring town, bor- rowed books and took them home, studied three days in the week, and supported himself by cleaning clocks and cobbling boots the other three. This prosecution for riot afforded Jotham a fine opportunity to get into practice, and so he volunteered his services gratis. Mr. Blake sat moodily in the desk of the Town-Hall. The people crowded about, standing on benches, and watching the proceedings with unusual interest. The two counsel, -the schoolmaster and Jotham,-after consultation, an- nounced that they were ready to proceed.   80         MYSELF. A dispute arose about the method of the examination.  Jotham contended that all the cases should be examined together. The schoolmaster of course must oppose all : of Jotham's propositions, and so he opposed this. Mr. Blake decided in favor of neither.. Inasmuch, he said, as  I was the ringleader, he would examine my case sepa- :: rately; but the others should be examined together. At this my father interfered, and demanded why he called me the ringleader.              :; "You are here, sir," said he, "to act impartially, and  not condemn before hearing the evidence." Mr. Blake turned pale and then red, and commanded "silence in the court."               ? "I will not maintain silence," retorted my father,  "when injustice is being done."' "Mr. Sheriff," said Mr. Blake, "take that man out of court."     ' Jotham interfered, quieted my father, and succeeded 4 in saving him an expulsion; but not till Mr. Blake had  given the spectators to know that order should be main- ; tained at all hazards.                f "The court," said he, "will respect itself."   i "It ought to," muttered my father; "for nobody else  will."  It was decided to first proceed with my comrades. The A complaints had been drawn by a lawyer of a neighboring town, and were presumed to be legally drawn, and for the present passed unscrutinized by the "learned counsel."  All of the boys pleaded not guilty. Two of the party, i who had turned "State's evidence,"-the biggest rogues of all,-were put upon the stand, and a dclear case was made out. The complicity of all the respondents was beyond a  doubt; and everybody save one anticipated a decision against them. That one was Jotham Hopkins.  When the evidence had been submitted, a long wrangle ensued in regard to priority of arguments. Jotham doing everything oddly, contended that the defense should have 1 the closing of the case. "That's nat'ral," said he. "Whoever hearn of a man's not bein' allowed all the chance the last word gins him  in his defense? 'Tain't 'cordin' to common sense."  i   MYSELF.          8I Despite the asseverations of the schoolmaster, that such a thing was contrary to all known practice, Jotham carried his point, and was allowed the close. I shall not proceed to a report of the schoolmaster's argument. The evidence was so clear that he only ntade it slightly muddy. When he sat down it was generally thought that Jotham hadn't a point left. Not so thought Jotham. He knew with whom he had to deal; and it was only a part of a studied policy to have the boys all ex- amined together, get the closing argument, and break all the complaints at once. After commenting with not a little severity on the con- duct of the complainants, and complimenting the "court" for its "common sense," Jotham proceeded to open up. "These 'ere boys, may it please the court, are all minors. That p'int was proved to the satisfaction of the court. My l'arned brother here, I calculate, won't purtend to deny it." The schoolmaster bowed. "Well, if they ain't ary one on 'em twenty-one, they're uncompetent to do bizness on their own hook. The law don't know 'em! Any man of common sense"-Jotham laid quite a stress on these words-- knows that if ary one of these 'ere boys should trade for a hoss, and gin his note for't, the note ain't wuth the fust red cent. But, says my l'arned friend on the other side, I s'pose that's a civ'l matter, and no more like this case than chalk's like cheese. The man kin git the hoss back ag'in. Don't you b'lieve it! The boy knows what's what, and goes off and sells the hoss and gits the money. What's the remegy! He's got the money and he'll keep it; and the two men may fight over the hoss, and whistle for the 'promus to pay' that's on the note. Now, what's that but a clean case of swindlin' and false pertense on the boy's part? Swindlin' and false pertenses come within the coginzance of crim'nal law; but for all that the boy can't be tech'd any more than he could be by the civ'l law. So the hon'rable court kin see that minors ain't responsible to the law any way." The schoolmaster was taken by surprise at this novel ground; but affected to treat it very slightingly. He broke in at this point, with the remark,-   82        .  MYSELF.  "You don't mean to say that the lawyer who drew these ;  writs                         - "Complaints, if you please," said Jotham.      ? I "Well, complaints, then!" uttered the schoolmaster, it  spitefully, coloring up. "You don't mean to say he don't know what boys are amenable to and what not?" .    . "I don't purtend to say anything 'tall 'bout it," re-  plied Jotham. "There ain't been no proof that he knowed  anything 'bout 'em. How did he know they were boys?  S 'Tain't often boys are taken up fur riot. 'Tain't nat'ral he s'posed these 'ere parties were school-children gittin' i up a mob. He'd no ijee there were such blasted fools in this 'ere world as to go to prosecutin' boys not too big fur  their mothers to take acrost their knees and spank. Who- ever hearn tell afore, of a passel of spindlin' boys breakin' -3 up a hull meetin' of men? It don't stan' to reas'n that  that 'ere lawyer ever thought they wan't at least twenty-  five or six year old.                 X i "But, fur all that," continued Jotham, "I purtend it makes no sort of diff'rence. Law's law, whether lawyers - know it or not; and a magistrate must go 'cordin' to it.  Common sense tells us if a boy is unresponsible civ'lly he -: is crim'nally."  "Where is the responsibility in the case, then?" asked  the schoolmaster, beginning to get nervous; for he saw  Jotham was driving his logic into Mr. Blake's dull com-  prehension like a wedge.   .  "That's fur you to find out, if you want to. 'Tis my bizness to find out where 'tain't. 'Tain't on the boys,  : : that's sartin What I mean to say, Mr. Court, is this ; 'ere: These 'ere complaints are every mother's one on  'em not worth that!" (Snapping his fingers.) "They're  good fur nothin'. The whole thing's a flash in the pan-  a reg'lar mare's nest. They're made agin' parties that ain't  knowed to the law. * They can't do bizness fur the'rselves;  so they can't create riots; and therefore they must be dis- charged." As Jotham concluded, the schoolmaster sprang to his feet to reply; but it was out of his power. It had been decided that Jotham was to have the closing argument; and Jotham held the "court" to it, resisting all the school- C-Ai   MYSELF.          83 master's attempts to explain or address it in any shape. In vain the schoolmaster asked the privilege of demon- strating-which he could do "in three minutes"-that his opponent had scandalized Kent and Blackstone, and "re- versed the common law." Jotham said the court had "common sense," had long ago dismissed the school- master, and was capable of doing its own judging. Mr. Blake's decision was quite summary. He took the view of the defense, and ordered the boys to be discharged. It now came my turn: and here was a chance for the schoolmaster to expose the absurdities of Jotham and "rip up" the former decision; but he retired in disgust, de- claring that a new method of practice had been inaugurated, and that he had no inclination for further experience in such a court. Consequently, on motion of Jotham, I was likewise discharged, though reluctantly, and was received by my father with a grim smile. The affair created much merriment. For a time Jotham Hopkins was the lion of the town, while Mr. Blake was styled "the learned Mr. Dogherry." The schoolmaster found the part he had taken in the affair quite damaging. He lost his popularity with his scholars, the parents cen- sured his action, and he soon resigned and left the place. Mr. Blake, mortified to find that what he had mistaken for "common sense" was nonsense, threw up his justice- ship; though some were so uncharitable as to say it was done to prevent the annulling of his commission by the governor.   84          MYSELF. CHAPTER IX. In which Time moves, and I get a Smile, a Love-Letter, and a Lecture.  SUBSEQUENT to the affair just narrated, my mother in- formed me of the origin of the feud between Mr. Blake  s and my father. As I suspected, it was owing to my inti- macy with Kate, land commenced with the evening of the husking-parry. Mr. Blake opened the subject, advancing the opinion that we had approached an age when our at- tachment, if not interrupted, would become inextinguish- A able. He had no hesitation in saying that he was averse ! to such a termination. My father inquired the reason,  being rather favorably disposed to our cause; but Mr. Blake would neither explain nor listen to any plea in our behalf. Both became exasperated, and some tart observations were  indulged. At length Mr. Blake went so far as to declare  that I was a bad boy, and that he would tolerate my inti- " macy with Kate no longer. It was his request that I should  be kept at home.          I          i The charge leveled against me stung my father to the  quick. It was the first time he had ever been accused of :; owning a bad son. It came with peculiarly ill grace, too, ' from one with whose daughter the alleged "bad boy" had  been allowed freely to associate. My father told him so, , - and asked him to substantiate the charge. As that could - not be done, he excused himself by saying that he did not X mean that I was vicious exactly, but that I was a bad boy  for his daughter to keep company with;-in other words, i that I was not the right boy. The interview terminated  with mutual ill feeling.               L: The second visit was a second edition of the first; and i the two separated with still more embittered feelings. My . father replied to his demand that I should be made to with- i hold my visits to Kate, by saying that no son over whom he had control should be the subject of annoyance to his neighbors. My mother volunteered other information. Previous   MYSELF           85 to the affair of the "riot," it had been decided that I should go to an academy for the season,-perhaps in the end to college. After that scrape, this resolution was re- considered. This was a severe punishment to me. It was a fondly- cherished wish that I might be sent to school and to col- lege. At times I had hopes of it. Now they were dis- solved. My complicity in the "riot" gave color to Mr. Blake's charge that I was a bad boy. I escaped, it is true; but not from any absence of proof that I was a party in the affair. I saw plainly how much I had lost by my recklessness; and it proved a wholesome lesson. I resolved to sow no more wild oats, if they returned me so speedy and full a harvest. As spring opened, I went on the farm, deter- mined and steady. During all her absence I had not heard a word from Kate. I felt despondent occasionally; but the remem- brance of our last meeting lent me some comfort. At one time I went so far as to think of paying Kate a clandes- tine visit at her school; but I relinquished the idea when I thought I might not be able to see her; that at best I should see her but for a brief period; that my visit would subject her conduct to a stricter surveillance thencefor- ward; and that it would widen the breach between the two families, and incur for me the great displeasure of my father. The morose disposition of Mr. Blake was already annoying enough, and I did not care to increase it. Summer came; the haying season commenced; and yet Kate had not once visited her home. She had been ab- sent eight months-a little age to me. A week of haying went by, and ushered in a beautiful Sabbath morning. The day was truly one of rest. Fatigued with my week's labor, I debated the expedi- ency of attending church. The loaded hay-cart on the barn-floor was a most tempting lounge. The twittering swallows among the rafters, and the chirrup of the grass- hoppers in the mows, made sweeter music than the village choir. Nature was a more pleasing sermonizer than Mr. Cleverly. 8   86         iMYSELF.              -' But the force of habit was stronger than all these entice- ments. No sooner did the first bell'ring than I heeded its call. How I subsequently blessed my decision 1 I had barely entered the church door when my eyes fell on Kate Blake in her father's pew. She gave me a glance,-a sweet smile of recognition,-that was all. I obtained not another glance the whole forenoon. I was aware of the -i: cause; for while I cast "sheep's eyes" at her, as she sat demurely gazing at Mr. Cleverly, her father watched us like a hawk.                      ! Not a word of the sermon did I catch. Even the text b; was unremembered, although I told my mother on my re- turn home that the subject concerned predestination,-  and hit the mark by chance.    Most wonderfully had Kate improved during her ab- sence. She had grown beautiful and womanly.  The pretty bud was expanding into the blossoming flower.  The afternoon service was much more pleasant than that  in the forenoon. I got a dozen smiles from Kate during : the intervals-of her father's nodding; for even his wake-  fulness was not proof against two of Mr. Cleverly's sopo- : rific discourses.                   1 1 Mr. Blake'srwagon passed me when I was some distance  , on my way home fromt church. As it whirled by some-  X what rapidly, through a vigorous application of Mr. Blake's whip to the back of his hobbling old mare, Kate gave me j a significant look. A moment after a letter fell over the a wheel to the ground. I secured it without observation, -  and waited until I got home, when I retired to a secluded j X corner to read it. It was as follows:         i  - c DEAR KIRK,-It has been nearly a year since we met, the longest I ever passed. I would give a world if I had Hi one-which I have not and never shall have, except a  i world of affection for you-could we be with each other Ai even for one short hour. But that is quite impossible. Father watches me continually; and mother says it will : not do for us to try to meet. Dear, blessed mother! she is our friend. She sympathizes with us, and thinks it a :'i hard case to be separated so.            t    MYSE LF.          87 "I go back to school to-mnorrow. It will be no use for you to try to write to me there again, for they all have the eyes of Argus. The academy is a little inquisition. They got- all your letters before I did (I didn't get them at alD, and inclosed them to father! I hope you didn't write anything that you wanted to keep a secret from him. If you did, he's got hold of it, sure enough. He kept the letters to himself; even mother does not know what was in them. "What would I not give to have received them I But I couldn't prevent father's getting them; and we must make the best of it. Mother says, if we wait patiently, things may come round right- in time. So it will, when we are old enough to act for ourselves; but age comes so slowly. I try to think time passes swiftly, but my imagi- nation makes bad work of it. I have been very lonely at times over it, and more than once have had a good fit of crying. But crying mends no ills; and now I am resolved to take my mother's advice, and practice patience. That appears to be the best. At any rate, I'll cry no more, if I can help it. "Don't be despondent, Kirk,-we shall meet some time; and it will only be the sweeter for being the longer delayed.  We'll have a happy time when it does come, won't we? "I should be very well contented at school, and make twice the progress I do, if it were not for this trouble. I am always thinking of you; and yet, in spite of that, I get along quite rapidly in my studies. I have a very pleasant boarding-place; my companions are very agree- able, and so are the amusements, what there are of them. But they are not like those I used to have with you at home. Sliding down hill in winter is looked upon as un- ladylike, and a girl skating-oh, that's monstrous! They give us dumb-bells and skipping-ropes, and lecture me when I climb fences, or propose ' tag' to the girls. "But they are getting less strict, as I persist in getting my exercise my own way, and they now only apply the term ' romp,' and let me have my head. "I don't think it's possible for you to see me to-night, and I go away early in the morning. Mother says you   88         AMfYSELF.    - may write to me, if you wish, and put the letter in the bluebird's hole in the apple-tree down by the gate, and - she will get it for me in the morning. But pray don't approach the house. Father is on the watch, and I don't want to be scolded all the way down to-morrow. I told him I wouldn't meet you or talk with you, if he would . only let me come home.   -It "KATE.   "P S.--I hope you won't forget to write to me to-night.  We shall not probably hear from each other again directly  for a long time,--I dare not hardly think how long. i-: Good-by.  "KATE."    lX Before the sun went down, my letter was indited, and ere ten o'clock was safely deposited in the indicated letter-box. What I wrote in that letter I regard as a secret. I was  young and verdant, and therefore the highly inquisitive reader-if such there be-will please excuse me from  transcribing it here. As to that, I never took a copy, it and it cannot be expected that I shall transcribe it from  memory, as literary pretenders do quotations from distin- i i guished authors. So far as Kate's letter is concerned, I i i have kept that treasured up among the loved things of the past, and copied it from the original.  Perhaps some one of my insinuating young lady readers  may think the letter I wrote is not far off, and that I might copy that too, if I chose. She has no warrant for the  suspicion. Besides, it would anticipate the denouement I either to confess or to deny. Some may think themselves if enabled to judge of the sequel by the tone of my writing, i saying to themselves, "His manner does not betoken a i  disappointment in the end." On that point allow me a  word. Man's inconstancy is proverbial; and be it re-  membered, all this took place when I was quite young,  quite honest, and very unsophisticated. I had the pleasure the following day of hearing that the  message safely reached its destination, and that in conse-  quence of its contents Kate went away to school in quite. good spirits. I learned this from Kate's mother. She had been making a call, and met me in the road.    MYSELF.          89 "I hope you wrote discreetly," she said; "it would not do to put any wrong notions into her head." I assured her that I had not. "I hope I did not do wrong in allowing her to receive it," she uttered. ." I think if Mr. Blake had seen how cheerful it made her, he would have pardoned it. Kate is a good girl, Kirk, and would not knowingly commit a wrong" This was not saying much for the rightfulness of Mr. Blake's conduct, at all events; but I did not appear to notice it, as she continued: !"I never knew her to willfully disobey us, or to deceive her father, but in this instance. You must not tempt her too far." "I never have tempted her; you know, as well as I, what my actions have been." "That's true, Kirk; the fault is not yours." "Then you know whose it is," said I, quickly. As- suming a slightly bitter tone, I added, "If the fault is not with me, why haven't I been treated at least half decently? Why wasn't I told the trouble, and had the difficulty ex- plained in the first place? Has Kate done anything?" "No, Kirk." "What objection, Mrs. Blake, have you to telling me?" She shook her head. "I cannot." "Why?" I spoke petulantly. "There is a reason,- something is the matter. You say it is not with me, nor Kate, yet we are made the scapegoats. You own that I am not guilty, yet I am treated as though I was, and every- body believes it." I saw I gave her pain, or I might have continued in a more, vehement strain. "I do own," said she, " that you are perhaps misused, --you and Kate; but I can't prevent it, nor can I help you, only by deceiving Mr. Blake. There is a cause for all this trouble." I persisted that I couldn't understand it, to which she replied,- "You would feel bad, Kirk, if I betrayed your confi- 8*   90         MYSELF. dence. Suppose I had given Mr. Blake the letter you wrote, instead of Kate; or suppose I had told him that Kate had written a letter to you." Still I would not understand. I thought if Mr. Blake had a competent reason for his conduct, she should have assisted him. The excuse that would bear her out in as- sisting to thwart his plans, as she had done, would also bear her out (as I thought) in revealing any secret there was in the case. But I contented myself with reiterating  the complaint that I ought not to be held accountable for  acts or circumstances beyond my control. "I know it," she replied; "but they are beyond my ij control. Perhaps Mr. Blake thinks they are beyond his. I almost believe they are. If I had my way, Kirk, there should be no trouble between you."  I thanked her for her kind feeling-I could not do less -and hoped that I should not prove unworthy of its con- tinuance. "But how is it going to be hereafter? Is this trouble to last forever?"  "I can't hold out any encouragement," she replied. A "What do you think?" ' "I think that much depends on yourself. You are  * strong and healthy, and a clear path, if it is rugged, is open before you. Hundreds of poor boys, with no bet- ter prospects than you, have climbed to the top of the  ladder. Kate loves you, and she will wait for you." My former suspicions seemed fully confirmed. Here were ; plain intimations that my prospects were bad,--that I had  to climb to win. My lip curled with disdain. I felt vexed 2  and angry. Mrs. Blake did not notice it, or at least she  did not appear to, but said,- * "But you must keep clear of any more such scrapes as those of last winter." "What do you mean by THOSE?" said I. "I wasn't in  but one."  "I found your mitten, one morning, after a certain scrape."  The blood rushed to my face. "If Mr. Blake had found it, I don't know what would have happened."    MYSELF.  My crest was humbled. While thinking how to excuse myself, she kindly relieved me of my embarrassment: "But that matter is past, and I don't speak of it to hurt your feelings. You did it before you thought much about it. If Mr. Blake had discovered that mitten, your chance with Kate, or anybody else, wouldn't have stood nigh as well as it does now. 'Honesty is the best policy,' always. It was doing a good deal to screen you; but, then, if I had told Mr. Blake, it wouldn't have brought the sleigh back, nor made you any better. Mr. Blake not only sus- pected you, but he was satisfied itwas you. If it hadn't been for that, I don't believe he would have had anything to do with that riot case. So you see, Kirk, that, instead of winning favor with those you ought to, you have given them cause to complain. Kate used to think a good deal of the old sleigh, and she regretted its loss. I never told her who destroyed it." I would never have believed the weak, -quiet woman I had ever known, dared to speak her mind so freely to any one. She had been as near a nobody as I had known. I was wonderfully surprised, then, when I found she was administering to me a downright lecture, such as a parent might administer to a child. It was rendered all the more effective because it was just and came from one from whom I least expected it. I could not but feel grateful to her for concealing my mitten. Perhaps I thought she might have sent it back to me, and not obliged me to go with one bare hand half the winter; but I learned afterwards that she had to de- stroy it to keep it from her husband. I acknowledged to her that Iwas wrong in that matter, and I thanked her for her kindness. "I did what I thought was best," said she; " and all I ask is, that you'll not run any more risks, nor do any more mischief. I'll do what I can for you and Kate that's not entirely wrong." Then she added, quite seriously, "You are no son of mine, Kirk, but you and Kate have appeared so much like brother and sister that I have felt to coun- sel you as I would a son. A little motherly advice won't hurt you now. Always behave on all occasions as you will wish you had when you come to think of it afterwards.   92        , MYSELF.   ; Get into no more scrapes, nor into loose nor dissipated I habits. Be honest, industrious, and patient. Observe  what is going on. Study into everything. Never give up.  Do not blame Mr. Blake too much; for I think, if you knew all, you would not think -so hard of him as you'do." . I cannot say that I coincided with her opinion of her  husband's conduct. On the contrary, I could invent no X excuse for him. The additional mystery she had lent to  the affair only made me the more bitter against him, and t I continued to condemn him till-I did know all..  }-: One thing followed this interview. I entertained a vastly higher opinion of Mrs. Blake. She was not the mere passive, breathing thing, living without thought or  will of her own, as I had supposed; and I comforted my- s-ib self with the idea of a great deal of her assistance in the : future.                       f  Winter set in again without any occurrence worthy of . note. Kate remained at the academy, and I attended the district school.,                  X The village post-office was kept at the store. One day " I was present when the mail-stage came in. With the  other idlers, I witnessed the assorting of the letters. X Among them was one bearing a foreign postmark, ad-  X dressed to Mr. Blake. It was a subject of wonder, not  only to me, but to the other gossipers. "What has he to do with foreign correspondence?"  I  asked one.  The postmaster, who was a wag when he could afford it, suggested that I should be dispatched with it to Mr.  Blake, and ascertain from him its mystery and history. t. Doubtless he would be very ready to satisfy me, and then  I could satisfy all the rest. *            This raised a laugh at my expense; and, as I declined the proposition, Mr. Blake was allowed to come for the letter and digest its contents by himself.       ...   AMYSE L F.93 CHAPTER X. In which I introduce another Acquaintance, and had a Half-Day's Fish- ing, and a Very Pleasant Half-Day it was. THERE lived in the neighborhood a singular specimen of human nature, named Nat Baxter. Nat was some ten or twelve years my senior,--a tall, lank, blank-faced indi- vidual, the unhappy state of whose intellect made him an object of pity to all who knew him, and one of great sor- row and trouble to his family. He had too many brains for an idiot, and too few for compos mentis. At twenty- seven he was in mind a boy of-six. In early youth Nat had attended the district school. At first he made fair progress, but after a time he came to a stand; his mind wavered, vibrating forward and back; and then Nat began to retrace his steps, and went gradu- ally downward through the classes, till he went out at the foot. I recollect the time when he stood three classes above me. We mutually approached each other. I went forward with eagerness; he, steadily and stolidly back- ward. Nat had been in the habit of accompanying my brothers on their hunting anal fishing excursions as game-carrier and bait-catcher. As I grew up, he supplied those places for me. Occasionally I favored him with a shot from the old gun I carried,--a weapon that had seen service in the Revolution, and was still good for a gray squirrel in the top of the highest tree, or a partridge beating retreat on the wing. Cobbett says, somewhere, that a Yankee never discharges his gun at game that will not pay the value of the powder, and that in shooting quails or squirrels, " they always count the number of shot they put in the gun, and will put in no more than they think the carcass of the animal will pay for, leaving a certain clear profit after the cost of the labor."  "         MYSELF. Either Cobbett was guilty of slander, or I was an ex- ception to the rule. Yet I have often asked myself, since then, how I afforded the expense of the enormous charges that old gun required. It is true that I often found peas and small gravel cheap substitutes for shot; but nothing save powder would explode. When Nat fired, I was prodigal of expense. Four fin- gers of powder, and as much shot! Some chipsquirrel, or ?  much-detested woodpecker whose only crime seems to   I 'have been that it preyed on the worms that infested the i i trunks of trees, was generally the object of his aim. Did I  say aim? I recant. Nat would take the gun, already   N loaded, primed, and cocked, creep close up to the game, point the muzzle in the right direction, avert his face, :i shut his eyes, and blaze away. If the object was hit, it i3 was blown to atoms; and if Nat came off with a whole  X shoulder-blade, he gave a satisfied chuckle, and for the remainder of the day followed me as patiently as a trained  dog.                         I j He never loved labor. His detestation of it grew with , his growth, and strengthened with his strength. If set to work in the field, no matter with how many others', ; he soon found opportunity to slip off unperceived, and il spent days, and sometimes weeks, in roving among the ! farm-houses in the range of his acquaintance.     :? He was not vicious, but once in awhile would be the X author of some mischief that called dpwn condign punish- ment. He was greatly addicted to the use of tobacco,  1 and it was a full exercise for his scant and beclouded wits to Conjure up methods of supplying himself with his favor- ite "pigtail." At one time, driven to desperation in his longing for the villainous weed, he t6ok a dish of salt and a sharp knife, went across the hill to a neighbor's pasture,  called the sheep together, and, selecting a fat wether, de- liberately cut its throat and stripped off its pelt. This he  hung up to dry in the woods, intending to sell it for to-  bacco. The dogs got at it and tore it. The carcass of the slaughtered animal was discovered. Nat was sus- ! pected ; charged with the deed; confessed it; and expiated i his offense by a month's labor, performed for the owner, but  performed only under the continual threats of a raw-hide. i *                  j[!   At YSaotEhr t , he    95 At another time, he became grievously offended with a puppy belonging to a neighbor, which in return for a play- ful approach (playful in Nat's peculiar way) made a snap at his fingers, and bit them to the bone. Nat nursed his wrath and swore revenge. Some months after, the family were called away. Nat entered a window of the house, took down the gun, powder-horn, and shot-pouch. The unsuspecting puppy had long forgotten the little affair which now led to Nat's visit, and received him with sun- dry demonstrations of good will. Nat decoyed him from the house he was left to guard, to a retired spot, and tying him to a fence that he should not escape, proceeded to shoot him. Totally unused to loading a gun, and not knowing the difference between the caliber of the one he was about to use and that which I had occasionally suffered him to dis- charge, he went according to my practice--four fingers of powder and four of shot! The discharge settled the puppy's earthly accounts forever, and came near settling those of Nat. According to the poor fellow's account, the gun kicked him "forty rod."  It nearly demolished one side of his face, severely wrenched his shoulder, while a fragment of the gunstock tore open his hand. He lay on the ground for a long time, too thoroughly frightened to move, and momentarily expecting to draw his last breath. Finding, after some hours, that he was not likely to die, he managed to crawl back to the house, dragging the fragmentary weapon with his own "slow length along." The owner of dog and gun had returned. Nat made a clean breast of all that he had done, being frightened into penitence; but ever after he made it a standing complaint that instead of receiving him with sympathy and kindness, on account of his misfortune, the hard-hearted and exas- perated man added poignancy to his wounds with an ox- goad! During the summer Nat was frequently with me. His parents could exercise little or no restraint upon him, and he spent most of his time in roving. He was very suscep- tible to the blandishments of the girls, and they took ad- vantage of it, and for a smile or kind word made him per- form many a chore and run many an errand.   96         MYSELF.               Nat was continually teasing me to go fishing with him.  I consented in case he would first help me out with my hoeing. The fellow lay whole forenoons in the grass be- side the corn, before he would comply; but I stimulated his imagination with glowing anticipations of fine sport,  till he took a hoe and' fell in. Though weak-minded, he ; was able-bodied, and we finished our "stint" within the time prescribed, and had a half-day to spare. Providing ourselves with poles and lines, we started for Woodhull's pond, a pretty sheet of water something more than a half- mile away.  An old worm-eaten "dug-out" was locked to a stone on the shore. I unloosed it and we shoved off. Nat took { an oar and sat in the stern. I mounted the bow. I bid  him row leisurely along the edge of the pond, and soon  became absorbed in trolling for my favorite pickerel.  The day was of uncommon beauty. There was scarcely  a breath of air to ripple the surface of the sleeping pond.  Light golden clouds were scattered about the sky, oc- casionally veiling the sun and interrupting its slightly op-  pressive rays. A small herd of cattle at the upper end of  the pond had waded half-way to their backs in the water, and the patriarch of the herd, a large bull, was amusing  himself by dashing it to the right and left with his head  and horns,- sending forth bellowings that came back to him in echoes from the opposite shore. An hour's unsuccessful coaxing of the denizens of the  pond nearly disgusted me, when Nat, turning his head to  the shore, informed me of the approach of some females. I looked around to see who they were. The first view was sufficient. I threw down my fish-pole, sprang into  the "dug-out," and was soon pr'opelling her swiftly through the water. The visitors were Mrs. Blake and  Kate. I divined the object for which they had come-  lilies.          I X As soon as the boat struck the shore, Kate and I had : each other by the hands, and for the first time for eighteen  months our lips met. Mrs. Blake and Nat stood by, si- lent witnesses of our unconcealed joy at this unexpected  meeting,-the former with the feelings of a mother whose chief pleasure lay in the happiness of her child, and the i   MYSELF           7 ,               97 latter with staring eyeballs, dull and leaden as the brain to which they conveyed the sense of sight. "We didn't expect to find you here, Kirk," said Mrs. Blake, " or I don't know as we should have dared to come. Mr. Blake said he couldn't afford to spend the time, but Kate was anxious for some lilies, and said she could row the boat;" "Or find a substitute, mother," said Kate, roguishy. I took the hint. "I'll be glad to row you," said I; "that is, if you are not afraid." "Oh, no," replied Mrs. Blake. "But if Kate claims the privilege of finding a substitute " "And the boat being small, mother," suggested Kate. "You may go together, while I sit in the shade of these trees." "Thank you, mother." And Kate bounded into the boat. "You may catch me some minnows off that rock there," said I to Nat, following her. The lack-wit waded off to the point indicated, capturing it from a score of mud-turtles that had been basking in the sun. "You mustn't be gone long," said Mrs. Blake, "or your father will become alarmed and follow us." Kate was looking concernedly at Nat. "He won't---" "No," I answered. "He hasn't sense enough for a tattler." I equivocated. I knew full well the fellow's weakness, but trusted to keep him away from Mr. Blake's. As I pushed the "dug-out" across the pond again, a sense of exquisite happiness thrilled me. Kate Blake sat at my feet, the blushing, joyous companion of my childhood, rivaling in form and feature the fairest picture that fancy ever created. She was the type of rosy health. The peach had shed its soft down and ruddy hue upon her cheek. The reddest rose that bloomed was pale to those pout- ing lips. Her forehead was as smooth and glassy as the sleeping lake; her skin as clear and transparent as the crystal beneath us. There was a beaming fire in the glance of her eyes. Her sun-bonnet fell back on her shoulders 9   98         MYSELF. as the sun was veiled by a cloud, letting loose rich tresses 1 of brown hair, while in rippling tones she told me how happy she was at this meeting. "Dear, good mother doesn't suspect that I saw you and Nat coming this way with your fishing-poles." Naiad nor sea-nymph floating through the imagination I of the dreaming fiction-writer ever had such bewitching ways as she. Her voice was as melodious as a lute; and i so artlessly did she give way to the enjoyment of the scene, : that I could only sit, a silent lout, and drink in her w6rds, ! my eyes beaming with eloquence though my tongue was mute.         -   ; It was not long before I began to feel the vast difference  between the two,-she a bright and blooming being, fair and fresh as a summer morn; I, an ungainly fellow, brown [:I as a berry. She was dressed in exquisite but simple taste. i It seemed as though in the matter of her wardrobe Mr. t Blake had become suddenly prodigal. I thought I never X saw a more beautifully-moulded form, dressed more sweetly X and captivatingly, than reclined in the boat I was rowing. 1 And I! The rim of my straw hat was decidely Quaker- like. I was in my shirt sleeves. The legs of my panta- X loons were rolled to my knees. My boots had been kicked - off and were lying in the bottom of the "dug-out," and  the sun was kissing my bare feet. The contrast between  us was too striking to be pleasant, but Kate seemed kindly  oblivious to that which was so palpable to me, and broke ;- out into song, caroling like a lark.  I am. very sure she did not think me a great homespun I as I thought myself, nor did she affect to be too dainty a miss for a plow-boy's love. As the boat shot round a i headland and hid us from the view 6f those on shore, the i  oars dropped from my grasp, she glided to my arms, and I folded her to my bosom in a silent, straining embrace,  not forgetting to snatch a kiss from her not unwilling lips. :  Then as it shot out again into view, I was at my oars,  skimming over the water as demurely as if we had not left our seats during the interim.  At length I ceased rowing and the " dug-out" floated quietly at will on the surface of the glassy pond. The lilies lay not a dozen yards from us, but all unheeded.    1MYSELF. " Kate sat on a box at my feet, her white hand resting within my rough and horny palm, our conversation sobered down to the discourse of two very sedate young people. We were trying to peer into the future. Hopeful we en- deavored to be; but we saw too much of the cloud and too little of the rainbow to please. Minutes were com- pressed as we talked, and an hour flew by ere we were aware. A shout from Nat Baxter recalled us to our position. "Mrs. Blake wants she to go hum," he cried, and Kate's mother was waving her handkerchief for our return. We glanced at each other as I slowly took up my oars and rowed toward the lilies, and the gathering moisture in Kate's eyes was the tell-tale of her feelings. "Another year of exile and study," she said, sadly; ("and then--what then?" I could not answer her. We gathered our lilies and I turned the head of the boat/ toward the shore. The oars were heavy as lead in my hands. Kate sat trailing the long stems of her lilies in the water, and I thought I saw tears fall down among them. At length she gave her head a toss, and, looking up with fresh moisture in her eyelids, essayed a faint smile. "Come!" said I, desperately; "this will never do. We are too much like children." "I only wish we were,- gay and happy children as we used to be. Will that happiness ever come again, Kirk?" "I hope so. Are you not happy at school?" "I wish the schools were in France!" she exclaimed. "What do they send me there for? Do they think to fit me any the better for the life I am destined to lead, in a boarding-school? or what do they intend?" "Do you not like the school?"I asked. "Oh, yes; but then they teach me nothing that is a substitute for what I might learn at home,-nothing to fit me for the life that is before me,--nothing useful that I might not have obtained at our village school." But you know the reason why you are sent," said I. "Yes." "And were you not at school we would be still farther separated."   I00         MYSELF. She made a gesture of impatience. "There must be an end to it some time, Kirk. If I thought otherwise, I would be tempted to leap overboard right here, and put an end to it." "You would get wet, and spoil your dress," suggested I. "Don't!" she exclaimed. "You don't know how  miserable I am. If I drowned myself it would be better tl for you."3 I shook my head, and dolefully smiled,  "I think I ought to be judge of that. I would much  rather have you away at school some time longer than lying at the bottom of the pond here. It would be a poor  way of ending our troubles; and if you went over, I should  be tempted to follow you,--for company. It won't always be stormy, Kate." She looked up into my face, with a quizzical expres- sion. "That may be; but I think the shower we have had  ' has been a pretty long one. Do you think it will clear up in a year or two?"  ' I hope so," I replied, gravely, "So do I. I know I am foolish," she uttered, rousing i  from her reclining position on the side of the boat, and j sitting determinedly erect. "Repining won't mend the ; matter a bit, so I won't repine; and, thoughtless fellow, you have never asked me when I am to be banished  i - again."                       r "Your presence with me put that out of my head. When does the next eclipse begin?" "Day after to-morrow. They shut me up in prison,   and give me a week's sunlight each year. If short visits make long friends, I'll never forget my home nor  you." I "' The visits of angels are few and far between," I re- turned. "How can I complain?"  "Oh, nonsense! don't -be a fool, too. There's the shore, and mother all-impatient. Is this the last time we are to see each other?" she asked, hesitatingly.  1 "Not if you dare meet me this evening," I suggested, quickly.  "I don't know. Where?"   MYSELF.  .        o "Anywhere." "Anywhere is father's doorstep. We won't meet there. Anywhere's at the garden-gate. That's no better. Try again." "At the spring," said I. "And the arbor," said Kate. "Yes," I responded. She nodded for reply as the boat struck the shore, and I leaped out and assisted her. As she stepped by me she whispered,--- "Dinna forget." I smiled, and she tripped lightly away. Stopping a few yards off, she turned and slowly retraced her way to where I was standing regarding her. "Poor dear mother," she said; " it is too bad to deceive her. "Do you repent?"I asked, with a throb at my heart. "Repentance without forsaking, I'm afraid, won't count. But don't we part with too little concern? Won't she suspect?" I divined her meaning, and she assumed a pretty, woe- begone look. "Will that do?" I almost laughed outright. She held out her hand, leaning toward me. I took her fingers in my grasp, and commenced toying with them. "Good-by," she pouted. "Good-by, Kate." Still she lingered, and I was about to let her hand drop, when she whispered,- "Kiss me, you goose!" I blushed, but gave her the required salute, which she received very demurely on her cheek, and then turned and walked sedately down the path, and was lost to sight. All this time Nat Baxter stood watching us. I called him back to the boat, and once more pushed off. "She's a purty gal," said the half-wit. ( I'd liked to kissed her, too." "Bah!"I  ejaculated in disgust. 'c Oh, yes,' he chuckled, " yer don't want her dad to 9*   102         MYSELF. know; her dad don't like you. I guess he'd let me spark her. I'll go and see, to-night!" His words alarmed me. If he should call at the house, of course he would tell of our-interview, and reveal Mrs. Blake's connivance, and my evening meeting with Kate would be prevented. I must take care to balk him.    ; "There goes a pickerel!"I exclaimed, at a splash in the water on the opposite shore. "Catch me a minnow,  h quick t!'2                       :  Nat proceeded to execute my command, and apparently forgot the subject which a moment before engrossed his  ; attention, and I heard no more from him in regard to it. g At sundown we landed, and, with a handsome string of M pickerel, trudged homeward. CHAPTER XI. How the Tide in my Love Affairs rose to the Flood, and led on to a . Catastrophe.  AFTER indulging Nat with a hearty supper, and dividing !! the day's sport with him, I urged the necessity of his re-  turn to his own home, taking the pickerel as a peace-  i offering. The idea seemed to strike the half-wit favor- i ably. My mother joined with me in urging it, And Nat started off across the hill in front of the house, promising 1 to take our advice. I felt relieved when I saw him dis- appear over its summit.  "I have some news for you, Kirk," said my mother, as I turned in from the door, where I had been watching  i Nat. "Kate Blake is at home." '            i I affected surprise.                 K I ' Pleasant!" returned I, half scornfully. "I suppose, ; now, I've got to take it again. Dogged and watched till she goes off. I shall be a thief if I steal even a glance ! toward Blake's while she stays. It'll be a crime if I nod to her; and, if I speak, I shall be hanged."   MYSELEF.          03 "I thought I'd tell you," she replied, soothingly,- "there is no harm in that." "Oh, no; and father'll have to tell me, too. It's necessary I shall be warned of what is to come." My mother made no further words, and I took my hat to leave the house. "If anybody wants me," I uttered, rather bitterly, "tell 'em I've gone to the field." I did go to the field, but it was so near dark that I soon slipped away to the proposed trysting-place. I stopped occasionally to listen, as I trod noiselessly as possible through the grass. Soon the merry trickling of the crystal water informed me that I was at the spot, and I sat down on a rustic seat to await her. This had been a favorite trysting-place of ours in by- gone years. A crystal stream of water flowed out from the side of an abrupt hill, and fell into a miniature pool below. A fringe of alders skirted the place, and under the thick shade of an overhanging elm I had fitted up a rustic seat and arbor. The arbor had long gone to decay, but the seat remained, and here we were to have our inter- view, I looked along the hill-side to see if I could discern her approach. Ten, twenty minutes-a half-hour passed, and she did not arrive. "Nat went home," I muttered. "She can't have al- tered her mind." "Perhaps some of the girls have come to see her," I mused. "They'll keep her as late as they can." "Her father won't let her go out," I muttered aloud. A pair of soft arms wound themselves about my neck, and Kate leaned down over me. "He's done no such thing," said she. "Hasn't he? Well, I've been waiting this half-hour, though, and was trying to invent excuses for you. 1 thought you had altered your mind." "You are a suspicious fellow. Didn't I assure you I would come? I've just got rid of my visitors." "Visitors?" "Lizzie and Hattie Atherton, and Nat Baxter."   I 04        - MYSELF. NatBaxter? Thunder!"I exclaimed. "I sent him home. - I saw him go over the hill an hour ago. He's told your father of everything!'  "No, he hasn't; I took care of that. I saw him coming,  and got the girls out to meet him. He said he wanted to X give his fish to father, but I made him give them to Hattie and Lizzie, and coaxed them to let him go home with them. I've just got rid of them at the gate. The folks ! think I have gone down the road with them." "And you run the risk---"             By  "Of all this for your sake; so please hush, you grum- i bler." And she placed her hand over my mouth to stop my speaking.                     In revenge I kissed it.               "What a beautiful evening!" she exclaimed, a moment a after, seating herself beside me. "Our academy girls would consider it a delightful time for an adventure i like this. Stolen interviews-meetings by moonlight; E. there's nothing at school half so interesting. It is quite  romantic. "' This was uttered in such a mock-serious tone, that I did i-' not quite understand it. "Are stolen interviews and moonlight meetings what :i they teach you at the academy?"I inquired, with a slight M tinge of jealousy.                 [ "Why ask? Don't you know I learn that at home,  i with you for my preceptor?"  "But  "             ' "' But me no buts. I am very steady at school. You 1 ought to know that."?1 "I do," said I. "But you talk so queerly about these things, I hardly know how to take you."       : "That's because I feel queerly," she replied. 'Is it  hardly right for us to be here?"  "IThen, why come?"  "A pretty question for you to ask! You know well I enough why I come. I've passed the Rubicon of diso- bedience; I'll imitate Cmesar, not Mrs. Lot. So please : let's not look back at what I have done. They can't blame me, for these things are practiced nightly at the school they send me to. If we can't meet but once in i   MYSELF.         105 two years," she continued, " let it be a pleasant meeting, though it be a stolen one." "As you say," I replied, taking her hand and drawing her to me." "Hark!" she uttered, "there's my old favorite-the whippoorwill. Hear him. He says, whip poor Will; but I dare say he means whip poor Kate, or whip poor Kirk. Listen!" We sat silently, our hands joined, our hearts beating like watches. After a time she asked,- "Is the visit of this bird an omen of good or ill?" "Il, I suppose," said I. "No; I'll take it by contraries, and say 'tis of good. Evil comes soon enough without our keeping too sharp a lookout for its approach. But I do not believe in omens. I've heard that bird fifty times on our doorstep, and I'm sure he brought no ill then. I wonder why he didn't go there now, instead of sitting over yonder, half-way to us. Perhaps he knows we are here." "And is calling your father," suggested I. "I hope not, Kirk," said she, suddenly. "I might make a great simpleton of myself if I only gave way to my feelings. I feel very much like crying." "It was wrong in me to ask you to meet me," I re- turned. "Let us go home." "Go home? Why? I've transgressed, and the trans- gression cannot be helped. I'll not go home-not just now." "But you are unhappy," I suggested. "Will it lessen my unhappiness to send me away?" She nestled her head down on my shoulder. I thought she was crying. I felt most wretched. "Kate," said I, desperately, " this can't be continued. Everything is against us. Even you are most unhappy. If you would only forget me, how much better it would be for all concerned. I'm but a mere nobody. You are " !"Mr. Nobody's sweetheart," she sighed. "Kirk, please don't talk that way, for you'll make me feel even worse than I do. What strange notions you do have!" she said, sitting up. "In what respect?"I asked.   to6  -      MYSELF.  "That you are a mere nobody. I wish there were no greater nobodies in the world. You'll/ be somebody yet. S Roger Sherman was a shoemaker." / "' But every shoemaker isn't a Roger Sherman," said I. "That is because they don't try," she replied, laying  her hand on mine. "'You don't know what you will be  yet. If you don't want to be anything, of course you won't. Ten years hence, who knows where you will be." "Even so," I replied. "Do you know, Kate, you have  struck an answering chord in my heart?" said I, energeti-  cally. "Ten years hence, with health and strength, I'll  be a man. But ten years is a long time. How will it  affect you?" "I can wait and see," she returned, turning her face full on mine. "Kirk, if you would only try." "I will try," I uttered. "You do not know how'  earnestly I've resolved it. If I was only sure of you." {"You shall be sure of me," she said; " you shall have all my prayers and all my wishes.". ' And if I succeed?"                4 "You need not ask me."               1 "And if I fail?"t "I'll be no less true. But you'll not fail. Hark! the whippoorwill has ceased. If its song was an omen of ill,  its silence is one of good. Oh, Kirk, you don't know  how I try to be a good girl; how every night I pray for Ad you, that you may be a successful man; and the peace   that it gives me is assurance that I do not pray amiss."  "You shall not be disappointed," I replied, with emo-  tion, "if good conduct and a brave determination can 1 achieve success."  There was a sound of voices down the road. We lis-  ; tened. It's your father!" she whispered, as one voice died  out.     - "It is yours!" said I, as another broke in.  "It's both!" she returned.      We heard a footstep approaching, and saw the outline ? of some one advancing in the dark. We rose to receive him.        * "Here she be!" shouted Nat Baxter, coming upon us. "   MYSELF.          107 A blow from my fist tumbled him into the pool formed by the spring. By the time he had crawled out, my father and Mr. Blake had arrived. Kate clung to me in silence, trembling like an aspen. "Well, sir!" said my father to me. "Come, miss!" hissed Mr. Blake, attempting to dis- engage Kate from my arm. "Let go, and come home," he uttered, after a moment's struggling. "Not so fast," I interposed, pushing him back; " if you please, I'll escort her." "I knowed they were here," chuckled Nat, edging round by the side of Mr. Blake. I gave the fellow a kick that doubled him up, and brought from him a croak like a frog. "Rascal!" muttered Mr. Blake. "Let the girl alone. Kate, come home with me." "Not yet," said I, stubbornly, placing her arm firmly within my own. The exasperated father attempted to seize her. I put myself between Kate and him. I do not know what might have occurred had not my father inter- fered. "Kirk!" he sternly commanded. "No more of this. Give up the girl to her father, and come home with me." "No," I exclaimed, "I'll see her home myself. If you desire, as you two came here in company, you can follow after." "Your conduct," cried my father; "is without prece- dent." "So is yours," I retorted; " you drove us to adopt this course, and have made a couple of disobedient children by it. For what there is wrong, thank yourselves." I walked off with Kate under my protection, Mr. Blake following close after. Without a word being spoken, we retraced our way to the house, and, at parting, I gave her a kiss on the doorstep. "Remember what I said,-ten years, and I will be a man!"I whispered, as I left her. I received in response nothing but a pressure of her hand. As I went out of the gate Mr. Blake came up. I stepped in front of him. "Mr. Blake," said I, with determination, "it is about   o8         MYSELF.  time we had an understanding. You've used me in this way long enough. What have I done? What have I been X guilty of? Am I not good enough for Kate?" "I don't want to talk," he growled. "I've had enough i of you!" He attempted to pass, but I stopped him. !"What is the cause of all this, Mr. Blake?"    e He chafed as with rage, but did not answer. I discerned, even: in the dim light of the stars, that he was much agi- tated. "If there is any cause, I'd like to know it," I con-  tinued.  ' I want you to keep away from her!" he returned, sharply. "I don't want you round at all!" "Thatwon't do," said I; " you have a reason for your action. I want to-know what it is." "You won't know it! It's enough that I don't want you meddlin' with Kate. I'll keep you away, -see if I don't!" For the third time he attempted to pass. I put my hand to his shoulder, and, with cool effrontery, remarked,-- "Mr. Blake, you are almost an old man, and I'm little more than a boy; but for all that I'll be treated so no longer. This trouble can be settled, if we only understand X each other. Kate and I have -been friends and playmates from childhood; and no one, not even you, ever found a word of fault. It's not strange that we've been friends, nor that we are strong friends now,-stronger because you've made this opposition. We have done nothing wrong; yet, at once, without warning or excuse, you sep- arate us, and forbid our meeting again. God knows the reason,-I don't; and I don't believe you do! I tell you now, that this business can't go down any more. We  won't submit. We are not children to be whipped into { it; nor are we to be pushed about in this manner just as you take a whim. Now, let me know what you've got  against me?" "I won't!" he exclaimed, attempting to push me aside. I grasped his collar desperately. ' Take care," I cried, " how you treat me!" "Let go of my collar!" he uttered, in a suppressed   NMYSELF.         l voice, that showed how hard he labored to control him- self. "Not till I get an answer," I retorted. '"You don't know me yet." He caught my wrist with a vicelike grasp. My fingers straightened beyond my power to prevent them, and his collar slipped from their clutch. He slowly moved my arms from him, and then, with a jerk that wrenched my shoulder-joints, flung them home to me. They fell by my side, paralyzed. Mr. Blake deigned no further demonstration, but left me as suddenly deprived of my vaporing impudence as a punctured bladder of its wind. Still I was rebellious. I did not realize that I had just escaped a whipping; for Mr. Blake was capable of giving me a thorough one. That he did not, was because his conscience would not allow him to administer it. He had a conscience, although I did not believe it. I ascertained it years afterwards, when it was too late for that " understanding"I had so warmly solicited. I was destined to meet with harsher treatment from my father. I found him seated on a stone, awaiting me, about half-way to my home. We walked a few steps together in silence, when he said,-..- "I thought I told you to keep away from Blake's." "Haven't I obeyed you?"; I asked. "You've just come from there." So I had!  The subterfuge I had adopted at the begin- ning, of obeying the letter but violating the spirit of the command, fell to the ground. "I grant it," said I. "I've just been there, but it was because I forgot your order. You drove me there. My conduct is as justifiable as yours. You commanded me without reason to keep away from Blake's, and up to this time I've done it. You didn't command me to keep away from Kate.' "A very small hole to creep out of,-very small," he sneered. I I now command you to keep away from Kate." Had I been wise I had made no reply, and here the matter might have dropped; but my passions urged me on. For a year perhaps I shall be obliged to. Kate goes 10IO  nI o        MYSELF.  off to school day after to-morrow, and then all this row will stop. But let me say this, father: when she comes : home again I'll see her if I can, and I don't care who tries to prevent me.  "Wait and hear me," I continued, as in attempting to speak he choked from the violence of his temper; "then you may act as you see fit. My mind is made up, and opposition won't change it. Kate and I have loved each other from childhood, and we mean to hereafter. Opposing it will only make things worse. Just think what we've been commanded to do. Closely intimate our whole lives, we are told to break suddenly off, and though living within stone-throw of each other, we are to be strangers. That can't be done. It's as impossible as it is for you to be kept away from your own house. Mr. Blake may have some foolish reason for keeping us apart. What it is nobody X knows. Your excuse is ten times worse than his. You haven't any excuse, unless it is that you -want to see how  far you can push me before I resist. If you wish to know how far you can stretch parental authority, you've ascer-  tained it. You can't carry it further. You can't exact  obedience in this matter from me. If Mr. Blake has touched your pride, why make me the victim? 'Tis foolish,  absurd, outrageous!. It concerns my future happiness. You'll check it in vain. When I'm of age I'll marry her X in spite of you both. Keep me down till then, if you will; after that I do as I please."            : Even at this remote date, I think I had the best part of  the argument; and that my plea, shorn of that want of filial respect visible in it, was quite justifiable. Truly, it  was a strange affair,-unjust to both Kate and myself, and i unworthy intelligent and humane parents. But Mr. Blake could not lay claim to an undue share of tact in the man- agement of any matter; and my father acted entirely under the lead of a wounded pride. Anything that I might plead in my own justification was only adding fuel to the fire. His anger at my contumacy was quite ungovernable. "I've acted in this matter as I saw fit," he remarked, angrily, "and I want no dictation from you. As long as you are under my roof you shall do as I command; and I'll command what I please!"  F         l   MYSELF. II! "it is your right to command as you please," I replied; "and in all reasonable commands I'm willing to obey. I would- in this if I could; but I can't." "We'll see about that!" We had reached the house and he said no more. I found my mother sitting up awaiting us, and evincing great anx- iety. The old clock in the corner pointed to the hour of eleven. The idea of being sovereign in his own house must have led my father to make the hasty command that followed. "Kirk," said he, "you've talked to me to-night as no child of mine ever talked before. I've been the father of fifteen children, and all but you have obeyed me. I have but little to say now, and I say it in the presence of your mother, that it may be understood by all of us. Either leave offgoing with Kate Blake or quit this roofl I can't own a child that won't obey me!" The abruptness of the command quite astonished me. I was prepared for almost anything but this. This was something new. But even this did not cause me to relent in the least. I felt as stubborn and unyielding as my father; and stood ready, although my heart-strings were strained to their utmost tension, to go at once out of the door I had just entered and never enter it again. My father was rigidly orthodox.  He was religiously upright in all his dealings; and I sometimes think would not meaningly do a wrong. Yet he was a man of strong and unyielding prejudices. With his mind once set upon the accomplishment of a purpose, he was immovable. I often declared (before I was capable of forming a mature judgment, perhaps) that in case he ascertained that he had commenced wrongly, he would still adhere to the wrong rather than confess and abandon it. I believe I did him injustice; though I have no recollection of a case wherein he ever confessed he was wrong, or even believed it. So blind was he with prejudice that he was often carried beyond a  safe turning-point, and only discovered his error from its disastrous consequences, when it was too late to repair the mischief it had occasioned. It was a constitu- tional defect with him and had taken too deep root to be exterminated in his old age.   "2         MYSELF.  It was folly for one of his children to attempt reasoning with him, for he prided himself on being the absolute lord of his household; and he ruled it with all the strictness of an Israelitish patriarch. Had I been wise I should have avoided a controversy with him; but I had been goaded to desperation. Love and duty conflicted. Love had strong claims; duty made tyrannical exactions. My temper was up; my whole being in angry rebellion; and reason and prudence held no check. When my father's command came, I then regretted my words. Entire silence on my part-a show of submission -had been the proper procedure. But the command was given, and I must meet it. Give up Kate Blake, I would not, though banished from a hundred homes. My father was unjust, tyrannical--I was right-and I'd not give in. "Is that your order?"I asked, after a pause. -' It is." "Very well." My mother came forward very pale and agitated. "Husband! Son!" she exclaimed. My father put her back with his arm. "Don't interfere. I'll take care of this matter." And then turning to me, "I'll give you till to-morrow morning to decide." "You needn't wait till then," I replied. "You can have my answer to-night, if you want it." My mother again essayed to speak, but he motioned her to silence. "I told you to-morrow morning!" he observed, sharply. "' Go to bed; "I'll hear no more to-night."   f YSEL F, CHAPTER XII. How my Father turned me Out-of-Doors, and how I obtained a Final Interview with " the Girl I left behind me." I BOWED acquiescence and retired to my bed; but I did not sleep. My thoughts were tossed in a tempest of emotion. I had no idea of retreating from my position, and looked upon myself as already under a sentence of banishment; and I mapped out as well as I could my course of procedure in the future. I was undecided whether to remain in the town and hire out to one of the farmers, or to make my way to one of the cities, away from the knowledge and influence of all my acquaintances. Were matters fully understood with Kate, the latter would be my choice. A certain degree of obloquy would rest upon me, very annoying, if I remained in the neighbor- hood. But if I should go away, I must first see Kate and arrange matters with her. Was that possible? Other considerations troubled me. My wardrobe was scanty; my purse scantier still. I had barely money enough to convey me to Bostonl; none on which to subsist after I got there. At last I came to the conclusion to consult Ben Mor- rison, and then fell into an unquiet slumber, from which I did not wake till I was called to breakfast. My mother met me with a look of deep concern; but I was quite re- served. Breakfast being over, and the customary morn- ing prayer by my father, rendered unusually solemn, being made, I was called into the next room, and my de- cisiondemanded. Iattempted to p arrya direct conclusion. "In regard to what?"I asked. "Whether you will give up going with Kate Blake or not. " "She is going away to-morrow, and there the whole trouble can end," said I. IO  N   "4    'MYSELF E Here was a loophole for an escape offered him, but he chose not to accept it. "That won't do. I give you plain terms, and I want a plain answer." This decided demand met with an answer equally decided. "I sha'n't give up Kate," I uttered. He choked for a moment, but whether with anger or other emotion, I know not. Then, as calmly as he could, he said,- "Take your clothes, then, and leave. You are no son of mine." "Very well. I can do so, sir." As I turned to go out, 'my mother stood transfixed be- fore me. She was deadly pale. I passed by her without speaking, went to my room and commenced packing my clothes. My linen was in my mother's custody, and I went down to her for it. My father had gone out, and she was weeping bitterly in the front room. "Oh, Kirk! Kirk!" she uttered, "this is at terrible thing. Can't you come to some kind of an understanding with your father? Try, do try!" "I can do it only by acceding to his demand, and that I cannot,-not honestly. I might deceive him, and pre- tend to accede, and so have things go well enough for a year, perhaps; but you have taught me to abhor such a course. You wouldn't consent to that yourself. But, mother,"--and I smiled as I continued,-" matters are not nearly as bad as you imagine." "I'm afraid you deceive yourself, Kirk. You don't realize what you are doing. It is a terrible thing to lose a home at your age. If your brothers are sick, they know where they can come and be nursed and cared for; but you will be debarred all that." "I know it, mother; but home with the alternative that is offered me would be more miserable than sickness and destitution among strangers. It would be a prison, not a home. No, mother; I shall go away. I don't know that I shall go far. I may not leave town; and yet, I won't deceive you, I may go farther. But it is all for the best, mother. I may be disowned, but an inheritance of health   MYSELEF. and courage-all that I ever expect-is mine. I must get experience abroad and not at home. The time will come when he will relent. He'll see that I'm right when he has properly reflected on it." "Then why do you go? Why not give him a chance to reflect?" "That can be done only by going. He has already a year and a half of reflection. I shall go anyway in a year or  so. It will better, too, for all concerned, if I am away. The bone of contention will then be removed. There'll be no more watching, and jealousy, and bickering. Every- thing will sleep till I get back, and when I do get back I'll be welcomed by more than one. Poorer boys than I have made their own fortunes."'                   i I spoke as cheerfully as possible. It had a consoling effect on my mother. Although she was still unwilling to have me depart in my present condition, she would not advise an unqualified compliance with the demands of my father.                            ! "If you love Kate," said she, and Kate loves you, I  don't see anything wrong; and don't know why you should not continue the affection. But if you go away,  Kirk, you go away disgraced." If I remain," said I, "I remain debased. Nobody'll know how I have gone, unless you or father tell of it. I can go without suspicion, if you two will allow me. Take courage, mother! It will be the best thing all around. I'm able to work. I've health and strength, and, what's better, courage. I shall always try and behave just as I know you'll wish me. I shall never forget to practice the precepts you've taught me." "I see that you are bent on going, Kirk," she remarked, with a sigh, but in a tone of resignation; " and I don't know but, as you say, it will be for the best. I'll not per- suade you further. I think you'll do what you've said. Your word, once given, can be depended on. If you will go, God bless you!" An innocent fiction saved an unpleasant parting. I more than half persuaded myself that I should return for my clothes, which I left behind; and I quite convinced my mother that I should.  Thus thinking, I went com-   II.6 -       MYSELF. posedly out of the house, and, as I gained the road, ob- . served my father gazing stealthily after me from the garden, in which he had been busying himself. My mother stood on the doorstep. She did not speak, except as her coun-  tenance spoke; and the language of that seemed to be,-  "He's not going away now. He will come back for  his clothes, and then I can bless him, and bid him fare- well." When half-way down the hill that sloped beside the  orchard, I began to think that I had deceived myself; that I was really leaving home finally, and becoming an  outcast and a wanderer. Thoughts of the old homestead i that I had never left before-of my mother, whom I was leaving, perhaps forever, rushed into my mind. I turned my head; the old house, with which all my life had been connected, with its square, squat figure, was looking solemnly down upon me; and there in the door stood my mother still, all her affection for her last-born centering in her eyes and dispatched after me. For an instant I hesi- tated. My feet were on the point of lingering, when, with a sudden resolution, I pushed them forward, turned my head, and saw before me the maples,-the home of  Kate Blake, that contained an object as dear to me as any- thing on which I had turned my back. The thought that I might obtain a view of Kate as I  passed, took my mind from my home; and when next it  recurred to it, I had passed the angle in the road, the trees  shut out the old house from my view, and although my mother was doubtless still standing in the door, the sepa- ration was complete. I had not left without a mother's blessing; but I had without her farewell, and with the belief that we should meet again. Of my father, why need I speak? If my mind reverted to him, it was only to swell with bitter thoughts. It was a long time-as the road wound down toward the village-before the house of Mr. Blake was entirely obstructed to my view; and my eyes were continually searching the windows and the surrounding territory, in the vain hope that they might rest on the form of Kate. At length that house was hid; and then, as I turned my   fMYSELF.  x17 face full to the village, I carried along with me a heart of whose sadness I may speak, but cannot describe. I was alone in the world. I found Ben Morrison, hoe in hand, at work with his father in the corn-field. I lingered with him till noon and accompanied him to dinner, when I told him of the occurrences at home. He would scarcely believe it; but resolved that I should spend that afternoon and night with him. I took a hoe, therefore, and accompanied him to the field. Towards night, Ben harnessed a horse and went for my clothing. He returned at dusk, bringing my mother's farewell blessing and a present from her of two dollars,- all the available treasure she possessed. At first I utterly refused to rob her of it; but Ben urged me to a contrary decision. "'Twill please her, and you may need it. If you find you don't, clap a couple more to it and send it back. That'll please her a second time." At an early hour we retired to bed, but did not remain there long; for, when the others had retired, we arose, re- dressed ourselves, and quietly leaped from the window. Ben went to the barn and procured a light ladder, and taking it on our shoulders we started toward Mr. Blake's. A short distance from there, we left the road for the field, and approached within close proximity to the house, where we halted. Ben threw himself on the grass, and I went cautiously forward to reconnoitre. As I advanced, I observed a light darting from the kitchen-window on the maples. Getting on my hands and knees I crept softly up, till I was in a direct line with it. It was near ten o'clock. Mr. and Mrs. Blake were sitting inside; but Kate was absent. I waited some time for a movement on their part; but Mrs. Blake kept on with her sewing, and it seemed as though Mr. Blake had placed himself as a sentry to guard Kate that night, and was keep- ing his wife up for company. How I anathematized their wakefulness! Fearing Ben might follow me, and in attempting to find me would make a noise, and arouse the attention of Mr. Blake, I crept back to rejoin him. I had barely passede    MYSELF. Iz8                         I the angle of the building when he emerged from the gloom and whispered,--  "Kate's in her room, Whitehead." "How do you know?" "I've been up there. Her window's up, and I heard her breathing. She is asleep. Now the thing is to wake  her. That's for you to do. Come!" "Not yet," said I, nervously. "The old folks are not yet gone to bed."  "S'posin' they ain't. What has that to do with it?" Ben was fierce with bravery. "I've been into her room, and all over it. Wake her up and get her out. There's no need of anybody's knowin' it. We can't stay here all night for the old man to go to bed."  "I'll stay here twenty nights," I replied, "before they  shall know anything. I tell you, Ben, the old fellow'll not go to bed till he's been to her room." "The old lynx! If he was half as careful of his soul he'd be sure of heaven, wouldn't he? Where are they?  Round here?"And Ben moved toward the place whence the light was shining. '"Let's take a peep at the old fel- low's mug, anyhow." "Is the ladder safe?"I asked.       . "Yes, that's all right. Halloo! Take care there!  What's that?"! "The light's moving, Ben!" --sh! That was the door, wasn't it? There are foot-  steps I This way-quick!" He grasped my arm and led the way. The ladder stood at the foot of a maple in whose thick and leafy top there was ample shelter. Ben ran up the rounds like a cat, closely followed by me. We drew the ladder silently after us. We were not a moment too soon; for we had barely got into a safe position-directly opposite the window of Kate's chamber-when Mr. Blake appeared around the corner. As on a previous occasion, well remembered by me, he searched the whole locality, stopping particularly beneath the window and examining the ground. Ben pinched my arm hard, and, putting his mouth close to my ear, whispered,- "Traps!" '   MYSELF.          19 Mr. Blake at length disappeared, and we heard the shoving of a bolt follow the shutting of the door. Then the kitchen-window was lowered. Then came a tramp on the stairs, followed by a light in Kate's room. "What did I tell you?"I whispered. Ben leaned down till he could look directly into the room. He remained silent a moment, and then muttered,- "I'll be Joe-blasted if the old hunks isn't searching her pockets for letters! I guess, though, the mail ain't in. There seems to be none for him. Oh, the old tyrant  If he don't eat snakes!" By this time I had gained a position from which I could likewise look into the room. Mr. Blake was at the bed- side, gently searching underneath the pillows. Kate was apparently sleeping, one white arm laying above the cover. Presently Mr. Blake came to the window, put his head out and looked around, waving the light in every direc- tion, and throwing it full on all the adjacent objects. Ben had a narrow escape; avoiding a discovery by sud- denly drawing up his legs, that hung down in full view. Scissors! he cried, after Mr. Blake went down. "If they hadn't been good dirt-color he'd a seen them sure as a gun!" It was with much relief that we heard the jealous father enter his own room, and the creaking of the bed, as he tumbled heavily into it. Then we let down the ladder, and descended to the ground. Ben went directly to the window, and, pawing cautiously amid the dirt, unearthed a huge steel-trap. "See that!" he murmured. "That's a Christian in- strument, ain't it? If I'd got into that, by the great Choctaw, he'd caught it. Where's a stick?" "Don't spring it, Ben," I whispered; " he may hear it. Besides, we must put it back, or he'll know we've been here. I certainly don't want to expose Kate to any more trouble." "You are right, Whitehead. Lie there, my honey," said he, putting it back again; "you ain't needed to- night. Now, bring the ladder." It was placed against the window, and Ben put his foot to it.   2M20 YSELF. "Mount," he whispered. "Be easy about it, though." The window was open, and there seemed to be nothing in the way. Twice I grasped the rounds, and twice my heart failed me. "What's the matter?" whispered Ben. "I'll be Joe- snickered if you ain't afeard! Go 'long, you booby I!" ' She may be frightened, and make an outcry." "No, she won't; she's twice the pluck you have. She'll think it's the old man. Come, come; go 'long, or I will." I stooped down and gathered some gravel-stones, and then mounted to the window-sill. A gentle breathing came from the bed. I flung a small pebble in the direction of the sound, and it struck the ceiling and fell, rattling on the floor. Kate started up. I uttered her name in a low voice. "' Who's there?" "Me. " "Who? Kirk? Where are you? You frighten me. How came you here, at this time?" "I came to see you; get up,--I must talk with you. "What has happened? Anything new?" The conversation was carried on in a whisper. "Yes," I answered; " but I can't tell you here. Your father and mother have just gone to bed. I must see you to-night, if ever." "Are you in the room?" "No,-on the window-sill; I've a ladder here!" I sat impatiently during the few moments that she was arranging her clothing. Ben waited much more quietly below. At length she stepped lightly out on the floor, completed her dressing, and came softly to me. "Kirk," she whispered, sadly, "I have a presentiment of evil." Pooh!"I whispered, cheerfully. "The evil has come, what there is of it. But we must not stop here. Can you descend this ladder?" "Oh,yes!" She put her head from the window. "Who's that below, Kirk?" she asked, affrighted. "Nobody but Ben. He's with me. Cotne!"   MYSELF.          121 She gave me her hand, stepped silently out on the lad- der, and quickly descended. !"Well, Kate," said Ben, as we drew off from the house, "this is one of the visits we read about, but rarely see. Now, Whitehead, I s'pose the quicker you git rid of me the better. I'll drive up for you at three o'clock, if you don't come down before." i"For whom?" asked Kate, drawing back. "What do you mean?" "Why, I mean Whitey, of course," replied Ben. "Did you think an elopement was to be proposed? Perhaps you don't know that Whitehead's turned away from home, and I'm goin' to carry him part way to Boston to-mor- row?" Kate staggered hard against me. "Is that true, Kirk? And for me?" "True as preachin'," said Ben; " we've planned to have one more meetin' with you. But keep) up good pluck. Some folks will learn what's what, I guess, before they die. Good-by, now; talk it all over, and don't make fools of yourselves. If you've got any grit, now's your time." Ben tripped lightly off. For some moments Kate's head rested on my shoulder, my arm encircling her waist. The night was warm, and I asked her, "Where shall we go?" "Where you will," she replied. "To the spring again. There's no dew. We sha'n't be disturbed to-night." "Yes." I do not purpose detailing with anything like minute- ness the interview of that night,-how Kate lamented the disastrous result of our tender passion, and the hard fate that had driven me, an outcast and a wanderer, into the world; how she almost resolved to become my compan- ion, and the sharer of my fortunes; and finally, how we came to a resolution quite as romantic and still more novel than an elopement. We swore eternal fidelity to each other, and resolved to meet eight years from that night at the same trysting-place,-the spring. Eight years I might remain away. I should have no communication with my I I  122         MYSELF. family, save writing a single letter to my mother, after I had become located. Neither should I communicate with Kate, unless fdrtune threw us together again; and she would patiently await my return.  It was quite an extraordinary resolution; but ours was an extraordinary case. We had already been sepa- rated nearly two years; and in eight years' time, if not before, being industrious and economical, I might come  back in a condition to entitle my claims to considera- tion and respect. My father would then be willing to  acknowledge me as a son again, and to reconsider the ' commands he had given me. Or, if these anticipations  failed, we should both be well beyond parental au-  thority, and responsible only to ourselves and public  opinion.                       I The evening previous I had said .to Kate, "Ten years, and I will be a man." That night I thought I might  abridge the time a couple of years.  It was not till after much discussion that we decided to ? hold no correspondence during my self-imposed exile;  but the result of a former attempt at communication was present to our minds, and Kate said a new attempt, if dis- : covered, would only subject her to newrigors. If I should be away, and nobody heard from me, matters would rest quietly till my return. I the more readily consented to this proposition, from  resentment of the treatment I had experienced, and the  imputations on my character. My ambition was aroused. Eight years hence what would I not be?  I think few girls in Kate's situation would have con-  sented to so long a separation from their lovers. Eight  years would be to many a lifetime. Some might have X been willing to limit the time to three years, possibly four;  but although Kate was not at all sparing of her regrets  over the hard fortune that drove us apart, she had that spice of determination and decision in her character that led to no hesitation on her part when placed in what others would consider a most awkward dilemma. If she could not extricate herself in a manner wholly satisfactory, she accepted the best alternative presented. She was not amenable to a charge of filial impiety. It was the love of    MYSELF. 123 parents and home that prevented her from clandestinely leaving them and sharing my fortunes. When Kate Blake told me she would wait eight years for my return, not a doubt of her truthfulness entered my mind. It was not from her that I was to expect faltering and indecision. I as reasonably expected, should we be alive and in health, to find her beside that spring eight before the sun lifted itself once more above the eastern woods. Confession is said to be good for the soul, and I confess that as the time drew nigh for our parting, those eight years began to stretch out. They had become remarkably elongated since I first thought of them. Eight years away from my native town, out of which I had never as lo X yet spent a night; eight years among strangers; and above  X all, eight years from her with whom I was now holding such sweet converse, was enough to cause me to come to a halt. I was about to propose a reconsideration, and was only revolving a suitable approach to it, when the sound of wagon-wheels fell on our ears. "There's Ben," said I. We rose from our seat at once. The importance of being at the gate before him impressed us both. Our arms were flung about each other's necks as we took our last embrace at a spot which was hereafter to become marked in our memories; and then we hurried off and reached the gate just as Ben drove up. "Come, Whitehead," Said he, "it's time we were off if we expect to catch the stage." He proposed driving farther up the road, returning by the time I had lodged Kate in her chamber. Kate was to return to her school that day. The weather being warm, it was the intention of Mr. Blake, who was to drive her to the academy, to start at an early hour. Fears arose, therefore, that she might be unable to reach her room again without detection. She even proposed that I should leave her to find her way to her room alone; but as the ladder was to be brought off, I would not con- sent to it. Fortunately Mr. Blake was not up. At the foot of the   X24         MYSELF.          , ladder I gently slipped a scarf, I had that day pur-  chased, around her neck. It was the best present I could  afford. Kate said she had a different present for me in her room, which she wished to make, and bade me promise I would  accept it. Unsuspicious of its character, I gave the prom-  ise required. She ran up the ladder. I followed more leisurely; and as I heard her searching her drawer, I also heard Mr. Blake leap heavily from his bed to the floor in the room below. "Quick, Kate!"I whispered.            X She was at the window on the instant, and slipped into my hands a well-filled purse. I drew back.     i . "Remember, you promised me to accept it, Kirk," she uttered. "It was given to me for spending money; but I don't need it, and you do." "But--"  Kate placed her hand across my mouth.  "You promised," she whispered. "Take it! quick; father's up!"  I made no more objection. Then came a long strain-  ing embrace, and our lips sealed the parting.  "God bless you, Kate!"I whispered; and then I slipped  to the ground, snatched up the ladder, ran down the road, and jumped with it into Ben's wagon, and we drove off, just as Mr. Blake, having dressed himself and called Kate,  came out into the open air.             : i We left the ladder at Ben's home, took in my wooden box, and drove briskly forward. It was a tiresome ride, X in the breaking morning, to the place where I was to take the stage-coach. Two nights of unrest and disquiet had left me wellnigh exhausted; and as I was in no mood for  talking, I several times fell into broken slumber as we  drove along. Ben did not leave me till I was mounted on the stage-  coach. Just before I took my seat, he drew me aside, and I was again made the recipient of a donation of money. Ben's gift was only three dollars, but he would hear to no refusal of it. "I have plenty," said I, "more than you know of." "I don't care," he replied; "you'll want it all. You'll ;   MYSELF.          T5 be a stranger in Boston, and you'd better be in kingdom come than be there without money,-now, I tell you that! It may be a spell before you get anything to do, and if you've only money enough to pay your board, you'll not get so home-sick." "Well, then," said I, "ifI've got to take it, I'll con- sider you lent it." "No matter-- anyway; only take it. The stage is waitin'. Come. Keep a stiff upper lip, Whitehead," he continued, as we walked towards it, "and you'll come out right side up. Let's know what you are about, won't you?" I evaded an answer to the last request, and Ben waved his old straw hat as I rode off. CHAPTER XIII. How I arrived at the"Hub of the Universe," with a Short Relation of my First Few Years' Experience there. CURIOSITY prompted me, at the first opportunity, to ex- amine the amount I had received from Kate. I found it to be twenty dollars! The largeness of the sum, consid- ering the parsimonious nature of Kate's father, was a matter of surprise to me. I could not resist the convic- tion that there had been some mistake. Could it be pos- sible that a father, who in ten years had never spent a dollar on himself, could be so liberal toward his daughter? I reconciled the matter by deciding that the amount was saved up by Kate herself. The era of railways in New England had dawned a few years before. The Boston and Lowell railway had proved so successful that a line had been extended along the Mer- rimack to Nashua; and the public was now agitated with the question whether a charter should be granted for a Continuation to Concord, N. H.* The precise effect of * A slight anachronism in regard to dates.     I2G6        MYSELF. such a railway on the value of property and produce in  the interior towns was poorly understood. The simple- i  minded farmers protested that, by drawing off the lines of  stage-coaches, the value of hay and oats would be so di- minished that the cultivation of these crops would be of  no object, while horses would be thrown out of employ-  ment, and rendered worthless. It is no part of my plan to review the discussions during the railway controversy;  or even to state the answers made to the objections urged  against extending the travels of the " iron horse." Time,  long since, settled that matter to the satisfaction of every- I body- save, perhaps, verdant stockholders, not versed in the mysteries of stock-boards. The ride in the cars along the valley of the Merrimack  is now considered one of the pleasantest in New England;  but then long lines of heavy-laden stage-coaches, whose  horses, reeking with sweatl and covered with dust, dragged  their burdens over sandy roads and through pine plains,  afforded but few attractions to the general traveler. With  me, however, it was different. Mounted on the top of the coach, behind " young Bill Walker," the best "whip" on the route, I almost forgot the scenes I had left behind for the new scenes and incidents that were constantly  transpiring.  The day was quite warm; but I was accustomed to the  sun's rays, and treated them with indifference. We had  relays of horses at every eight or ten miles, and with every fresh team I -found new satisfaction in being hurried onward. At three o'clock in the afternoon we were whirled rapidly up to the railway station in Nashua. There, fol- lowing the example of my fellow-passengers, I purchased a ticket to Boston; saw my homely baggage safe on board, and took a seat in one of the cars. Presently the bell on the station-house tolled the hour of departure; the locomotive gave a snort and a jerk, and we proceeded briskly from the station. Faster and faster we moved down the iron-shod road, rattling across the bridges, and soon were flying like lightning along the broad interval that skirted the Merrimack. At first I held my breath in awe, Riding in the cars was a new   MYSELF. 127 thing to me. But soon the wheels flew round full slow, and every dash through cut, and across bridge, and over embankment, only added to the excitement of the ride The conductor made his appearance in the car, taking up tickets, giving checks in return. What did I know of the mystery of checks and tickets? I saw the pasteboard that I held said "Good to Boston," and so when he cane along, and blandly said,- "Ticket!" I modestly replied, clinging to mine,- "I've got one." I mistook the man to be a vender of tickets, supplying those passengers who had not purchased at the station- house, before entering the cars. "Ticket!" again demanded the conductor, to which I again replied,. "I've got one!" I suspect that Conductor Kimball--I graciously beg his pardon if I do him a wrong--felt slightly elevated with his position, and thought it beneath the dignity of his calling to instruct a verdant youngster in the mysteries of ticket vs. check; for he again demanded in tones that seemed to brook no denial,-. "Ticket, or your money!" A titter among the passengers aroused me to a sense of my condition. A glance at the array of pasteboard in the conductor's hand gave me a suspicion of the modus oper- andi of fare-taking, and in the twinkling of an eye I pro- duced my ticket, and received a check in return. Inex- perience is the fortune of everybody at first, but some get rid of it sooner and easier than others. The cars sped onward. Tyngsboro' and Chelmsford were passed, and we shot into Lowell. I gazed over at the Merrimack House, then at the faces of the loungers about the station, and then found myself moving back- wards and the passengers facing about in their seats. Out we went from that busy, humming city of spindles, under the arched bridge and through the deep cut out into the open country, and then, Nature asserting her demands, I fell asleep. I awoke at the Woburn water-station, much refreshed;    128         MYSELF. and as we glided toward the city over a highly-cultivated country, dashing across marsh and creek, and towering masts and spires rose up, first from the Mystic and then from the harbor, I found quite too much to see and see it well. I obtained a very poor glimpse of a canal-boat as we flew over the Middlesex Canal, since abandoned. Then I saw the McLean Asylum; then we were running among the houses of East Cambridge; and then, proceeding at a moderate pace, across Charles River bridge. Another moment and we were in Pandemonium. "Have a hack?" "Have a cab, sir?"  "Ride up?" , This way, sir?" "Shall I carry you up, sir?"  "Got any baggage?" Innocent youth, I engaged myself to at least a half-dozen of the noisiest! They pulled and hauled me, and cursed me for a greenhorn whose maternal parent was unaware of my absence. I escaped them by giving myself up to the largest of the ugly crew, and told him where I wished to be carried,-to " a tavern!" He set me down at the Elm Street Hotel, where, after washing and brushing away the day's accumulation of dust, I repaired to the supper-table and partook of a hearty meal, for I had commenced life on an economic plan, and had deprived myself of a dinner. Then I repaired to my room, and, though fatigued, I found my curiosity suffi- ciently alive to take me- to the window, where I sat a long time watching the exhibition of busy life below. What a stupendous; thing to me was the city! A great human ant-hill,-busy, bustling, running, jostling; a mael- strom of mortality,-'boiling, foaming, rushing, seething. Exalted as my ideas had been in anticipation, they were small indeed to what I found the reality. There was a deadly heaviness at my heart as I thought of myself,-a homeless, inexperienced youth, cast into this interminable, never-ending sea. In childhood, the story of Robinson Crusoe, cast on his desolate island, wrought upon my sym- pathies; but I was a Crusoe deserted in an ocean of humanity. I sought a bed, but my slumbers were painful and broken. The rapid whirl of recent events had set my brain on a corresponding whirl. I tossed and tumbled; strange con-   M YSE L F.        129 jurations were my dreams; horrid fantasies appeared to my sleeping vision; and I started up bathed with sweat, and rubbed my eyes, and felt- about to assure myself of my safety. The whir and rush of the cars were constantly present to me. Conductors without number appeared again and again before me and demanded my ticket. Stage-coaches and cars were strangely intermixed, and jostling, crowding and crushing each other continually. Now I was traveling the valley of the Merrimack once more; then the coach overturned and I felt its crushing weight upon me; but I could neither stir nor cry out. How long the nightmare had lasted I cannot tell, but a loud rap on the door roused me from it. I thought at first that I was at home, and my father was calling me for the morning. I sprang out of bed, collected my scattered senses, and waited for a repetition of the rap. A fellow- lodger was to be put in my room, and though he was a stranger I felt a sense of relief at his appearance. I was up early in the morning, feeling dismal and unre- freshed. I was physically in a state bad enough to make one home-sick. I laved myself with water and went down to seek air and exercise. But the air was thick with stenches, and I dared not venture for a walk lest I should lose my- self among the labyrinths of brick and mortar. I waited for breakfast, and the next step was to go to my room and decide on the future. Country youths, seeking employment in the city, take to intelligence offices as moths to the candle-light. I was no exception; for the first thing I resolved on was to apply to one of these establishments. I was very much pleased to learn that the keeper had a large number of applications for the services of young men; but was somewhat depressed when he told me that in all the cases one thoroughly acquainted with the city was required. Nevertheless I paid my dollar and went away, persuaded that by the morrow I should find a situa- tion. The following morning I repaired again to the intelli- gence office. The keeper was very, very sorry that no application had been made for a person like me. It was unfortunate, he observed, that X was Unacquainted with    130    '    MYSELF. Boston. But if I would advertise-which would cost an i additional dollar---he had no doubt that I should find a i place '"right off." I declined, thinking I would wait  another day. Once more fortune favored me, mauger the predictions  of the grandmothers of my infancy. On returning to the i hotel, the clerk informed me that one of the hostlers con-  templated a visit to his friends in the country, and he wished me to fill. the place till his return. How my heart leaped at the prospect of even a temporary situation! I X hurried to the stable, and the bargain was soon struck, and : I was duly installed into the order of knights of the curry- comb and brush. The stipulation was that I should work a month for ten dollars and board. My mind was set at rest. Here was an opening that  would serve me until I became more acquainted with the city, and had time to look about for a permanent situation. That evening I wrote to my mother, informing her that  I was in Boston, at work and contented. Can I say that - - I was contented? Away from the quiet of my former home,  the fresh air, the green fields, the babbling brooks, the sing- ing birds, the ever-pleasing landscape-a stranger among X strange faces and strange scenes-in a busy, bustling, noisy, dusty, dirty city! I tried to think that I was con-  tented; and because I had obtained work I was quite de- I luded into the belief; but what would I not have given for my innocent, unburdensome childhood, and its sweet and unrestricted companionships?  I wrote her that I was well and much pleased with the city. I thanked her for all her love and care, and said  that I would always strive to merit her best wishes and  prayers. I bid her rest assured, if she did not hear from me again, that I was well and doing well. I did this be- cause it was resolved that I should write one letter, and but one. I did not mention the business I was in, nor my  location, as I desired that no person from my native town should ever seek me out. The month for which I was engaged was extended to three months, and then I had the offer of a situation in a carriage depot, which I accepted. Here two and a half years passed, without incident worthy of record. The   MYSELF.         13 failure of the proprietors threw me out of my place, and I engaged as a servant at the United States Hotel. During the time I was thus employed I had one end steadily in view-a return to my native village at the allotted period in a condition to make myself respected. I rarely absented myself from my business. I carefully avoided such quarters of the city as I deemed likely to be the stopping-place of people from my old home. I en- deavored to change my appearance and costume so that, unless I was forced upon their attention, old acquaintances, if I encountered them, would not recognize me. With these precautions I escaped the notice of all those who might have been disposed to inquire after me. I obtained access to the public libraries, and spent my spare hours in study; and when I was fortunate enough to obtain a ticket, was an attendant upon the Lowell lectures. I had grown tall, was well formed, lithe, active, and healthy. My stay at the "States" was a constrained one. The employment was uncongenial and distasteful, and I look back on that part of my life with disgust. It was only here that labor appeared menial and service disgraceful. I endured the situation simply because none better was open to me. It may be said that a young and active man ought not to lack employment in almost any business. That may be partially true; but in a crowded city, into which every year the surrounding country pours a stream of country youths seeking employment-without friends, with no profession, and with scarcely any experience, the procurement of congenial employment was not so easy with me as at first thought it might seem. What I wanted was opportunity. What thousands of others like me need, in order to open up to them paths to competence, is likewise opportunity. My opportunity had not come, and I did the best I could. He only is wise who accepts the most favorable chance that is offered, and waits for an opening through which he may advance to better fortune. Who can describe life in a hotel? Not the traveler who remains there for a single day or week; nor the hanger-on, who dines and lodges at a neighboring boarding-house, and goes to pick his teeth on the steps, or smoke his cigar about the office; not the boarder who does not see, in all   1312      M YSELF. its unrestricted license, the character of his fellow-lodger;  nor the landlord, from whom is hid the real disposition and habits of those who have made his house their home.  The humble employee might describe life in a hotel better than all these. It is to him the guests reveal themselves.  Be they gentlemen or clowns, be they well-bred or ill-bred, men of culture or mere ignorant boors,-the servant sees them as they are. It was my fortune to meet with few of the former class. At that time the "States" was the favor-  ite hotel of Western merchants, and the city jobbers sent their clerks there to board, that they might fall in with  these Western buyers at the earliest moment and secure their custom. Then came other young men, having ambi- tion to make an important appearance-mere pretenders,  of such slender means that they could barely support the expense of a poorly-furnished attic, and were constantly  in arrears to their tailors and washerwomen. Two hun- dred guests sat down daily to dine in the gentlemen's ordi- nary, and nearly as many more in the ladies' ordinary. Of the latter I will not speak. It was with the former I was  thrown. Two long tables, at each of which a hundred  persons were seated, ran the length of the dining-hall. The dinner was served in courses. When the covers were removed, thirty waiters rushed simultaneously to the carv- ing-tables, to secure for the guests on which they waited favorite bits of food. All the gourmands, and snobs, and boors among the boarders crowded to the head of the  tables, that they might be near the carvers and the sooner served; and woe betide the luckless waiter that didn't  outwit thirty other waiters, and carry off all the dainties and delicacies of the day, and place before each of the , five or six parties that he served tieir plate of the choicest  and rarest morsels exactly at the same instant. There were no ladies present to restrain license in i speech, and these greedy and unmannerly dogs snapped and  snarled over their food like so many inmates of a kennel. "Waiter! you've given me an outside piece of beef, sir! Don't you know I always call for rare, sir? Take it away, sir!"  Another slice is brought. Damnation, sir! Do you suppose a dog would eat   MYSELF.          33 that? It isn't warmed through, sir! Take it away, sir!" Then another would roar,- "Waiter! I called for roast duck, sir! You've brought me goose! Don't you know what roast duck is, sir?" "Yes, sir," meekly responds the luckless servant. "That is duck, sir." "It is, is it?" (turning it over contemptuously with his knife.) "Is that the kind of ducks you have at this hotel?" with a sneer. "Then bring me some goose, sir!" The goose is brought. The irate individual glares at it a moment, sees his mistake, and indignantly pushes it from him. "I don't want that! What else have you?" A bill of fare is passed. He pulls out his eye-glasses and runs over the list. "Boiled-Ham, tongue, corned beef, chicken, turkey with oysters. Hem! bring me some boiled turkey with oysters. No-stop." (Reads) "Roast- Beef, lamb- hm! lamb with mint-sauce. Bring me some lamb with mint-sauce. " By this time the lamb is served out, and the waiter re- turns with the information that the lamb is all gone. Then follows another exhibition of towering passion, during which the waiter, hotel, landlord, and all concerned are the subject of indiscriminate anathema. Finally, the dis- gusted individual makes a dinner as best he can, and next day solemnly warns the poor fellow who serves behind his chair, that if he is as stupid in serving him as he was yes- terday he will leave the house or have him discharged. I have seen fellows, who had bills for six weeks' washing lying on the table in their rooms, turn up their nose at food, when I knew the children of their washerwomen were suffering from hunger, and would consider that very food the most delicious on earth. How many times have I answered calls at the servants' door, and have a poor pinched child put a bundle in my hand, saying,- "Please send that to the room of Mr. George Augustus Snodgrass, and tell him mamma would be so glad if he would pay her the amount of his washing-bill. My little 12   MYSELF.              brother is sick, and we are out of coal, and have not flour enough in the house to last till to-morrow." That fellow owed for six weeks' washing. Then came  a smart tailor's boy.      ,:; "Please take that up to James Alfred Thompson, and X if he isn't there, leave it in his room. If he's in, tell himni Mr. Brown wants to know if he never pays his tailor's bills. He's been promising these six months, and if he X don't pay up now, he's going down to see the old man" (his Milk Street employer) " about it."         This fellow owed his tailor and washerwoman both, and ' made more pretensions than any individual about the  house, notwithstanding he was a clerk on a slender salary i and lodged in the attic. Aptitude for " giving sauce" was no part of the quali-! fications required in a hotel servant. He must be attentive,  polite, and respectful. The most outrageous fault-finding K and abuse must be borne in silence. So long as a boarder K paid his bills promptly, no matter whether he occupied a suite of rooms on the first floor, or was separated by a sin- gle partition from the servants in the attic, he was entitled, X and justly, too, to uniform good treatment. If he com- plained at the office of impudence or impertinence, the  offender was called up and reprimanded,'-the second time,  discharged. For a servant to complain was preposterous. Were they not employed for the express purpose of endur- ing all the contumely and abuse that guests might deem proper to put upon them?  Of course there were gentlemanly inmates of the hotel, -many of them; but unfortunately I had little to do with that class. Those whom I attended were mainly snobs and pretenders,-to whom the best the house afforded was not good enough. If they were not the first and best served at the table; if their boots were not polished to the glossiest brightness; if their bells were not answered on the instant, they let fly at the luckless servant a volley of oaths and invectives that would disgrace a cock-pit and prize-ring. Some were exquisites of the first water, and were as languid as girls in consumption, and "aw'd" and  "' demme' d" with an unction that was as amusing as it was disgusting. If these fellows were drummers sent to catch   MYSELxF.          135 Western merchants, and toll them to their employers' places of business, they frequently invited their new-made acquaintances to a seat beside them at the dinner-table, and treated liberally with wine. I have seen a card sent to the wine-room with the inscription,--"No. 546, I botel Skrider /" The gentlemanly Silsbee, in answering the order, remarked that the writer must have been reared under phonetic influences. Was it strange that I chafed under such influences? The men who superciliously ordered me about, and treated me liberally with invective, clothing me with cursing, as with a habit, I knew to be not so well informed as my- self. I knew them, moreover, to be spendthrifts, owing everything but their board-bills, and hardly able to liqui- date those. They looked down on me as a lackey and a scullion. They treated me with the same consideration as they would a dog. There is nothing in honest labor that should be debasing, but I confess that my experiences in this portion of my life added not a whit to my own manhood. I began to think that life was made up of hol- lowness, and- that the most ignorant and most pretending were the most entertained and the most admired; that assurance was the great requisite to success, and pretension was better than solid worth. I hated the life I led, and had it not been that the wages I received was a means to the end I had in view, I would have abandoned it in dis- gust. Four years of the eight had passed, and I counted up four hundred and fifty dollars in savings,-a little better than a hundred a year. This was satisfactory. With health and steady application, another four years would put me in possession of a coveted thousand; and that thousand would put me in possession of what a patriarch of old had labored eight years, less one, to gain. I had entered on my fifth year of absence. One even- ing, on passing down to the kitchen, I met a little, half- clad, barefoot girl on the stairs, coming out, sobbing bit- terly. She carried a small basket in her hand, which showed her to be one Of the many who came for the frag- ments of victuals sent down from the dinner-table. These fragments were collected and sold to poor people, who    136         MYSELF. came with their baskets, and, for a small pittance, received  enough broken food for several meals.     I The child appeared so distressed that I stopped and in- : quired the cause.  "Oh, sir," she exclaimed, "my poor mother 1"  Her face was strikingly intelligent, but pale and pinched t with want. I felt that one who thought only of her mother, while evidently suffering from hunger herself, would scarcely  attempt to impose on my sympathies. I pressed my in-  quiries, and gathered from her story that her mother-a  widow in reduced circumstances-was lying ill at home;  that there was no food nor money in the house, and that the child had been sent to the hotel to beg cold victuals;  that on application to the person who dealt them out, she  had been refused and sent away, with harsh words, empty- handed, saying that he didn't serve beggars. There was : such an air of truth about her, and she was, withal, in  such distress, that I became deeply interested. I called  her to the store-room, to which I had access, placed some  food before her, which she eagerly devoured, and pro-  ceeded to fill her basket. The first article I laid hands on was a whole cold chicken. This I wrapped in a napkin.  The basket was filled with other food, and then I placed several oranges in my pockets. "Now," said I to the little girl, who seemed to have satisfied quite fully the cravings of her appetite, and who begged to be allowed to carry her last cranberry tart to her mother, " let us go."  She gave me a look of joy, mingled with incredulity.  And well she might. It was the first time I had ever in- terested myself with poverty, or knew that it existed to such an extent in the city. The charity I was about be- stowing was no better than the charity of those who feel deeply for human suffering everywhere save in their own pockets. I felt in the pockets of the landlord. I made him  relieve the distress I pitied. Hence I was very generous. "And will you go, too?" asked the child, as I took up the basket.  "Yes; why not? I want to see if you have told me the truth." "  Oh, I have, sir! Indeed, I have! But I shall be so glad    M YSELF.         137 if you will go and see poor mother. You may do some- thing,-get the doctor for her, perhaps." "Yes," said I; "and if she is so sick as that, we'll go at once." ' We went out, and she led the way quite rapidly toward the South End. We turned from a narrow, dark street into a darker court, surrounded by old and squalid build- ings, and stopped before one of them. "We live in here, sir," said the child; adding, as an apology, "We used to live in a better place when papa was alive. You'll let me go first, because it's dark, and I'll lead you up with my hand." I followed her up a flight of crazy stairs, and into a dark and lonely room. I heard a chair move, and then a voice asked,. "Robert, is that you?" The child pressed back toward me. "Mother!" she uttered, with alarm, "where are you?" "Here, Julia," responded a feeble voice, as of a per- son ill, from one corner. "Don't be frightened, child; it is only a friend." The girl ran forward. "Mother, dear mother! I have brought you something to eat!" The voice I first heard said,. "I know a man came in with her. Robert, why don't you speak, if that is you?" I thought I had heard that voice before, but I could not recognize it. The owner evidently mistook me for Robert, so I replied,-.  "This is not Robert, but one who came home with this little girl. Have you no light?" The female did not reply, but the sick woman an- swered,. "Only the light that Heaven condescends to bestow on the unfortunate." Just then heavy steps were heard on the stairs, and a man entered with a lantern. It was Robert. ' I've sent a man for Dr. Fisher," said he, advancing across the room; "and the grocery folks will be right along with some wood and other things." I23   I38         MYSELF. The lady he addressed was evidently young, though on  the entrance of the light she had drawn her veil. She sat rigidly silent, and I concluded that she was some female  Samaritan, who had come on an errand similar with my- self, and did not care to have her identity discovered. Robert was her servant and attendant. Observing me, with  my basket and bundle of cold chicken, he remarked,-  "Oh, then, you've come with a part of the things al- ready. Where's the wood? Haven't you brought that?" "You've made a mistake in the person, I think," said  I, slightly embarrassed at these successive false positions.  "I came with the little girl; but I see that I am antici- pated by somebody who is better able to afford relief  than I."  He looked first at me, and then toward his mistress, who  continued veiled. "I beg your pardon, sir. I took you to be one of the  grocers out here, that I had ordered some goods of." A sign from the lady drew him to her side. Low words X passed between them. While they were thus engaged, I had leisure to examine the room,-poverty-stricken in its  appearance, indeed. There was scarcely any furniture in it. An old broken stove, a rickety chair or two, an old table, a mattress and a comforter and a blanket in the corner, where was lying an emaciated female, comprised the whole. The little girl had knelt down by the side of her sick mother and was whispering to her; and the sick mother turned her languid gaze toward me at her words. I seemed  an object of interest to all the parties, for I saw Robert looking furtively at me, from some remark from his veiled companion, who then, without a word further to the sick woman, went silently past me out of the room. Robert followed her, saying to me as he went out,- "If you will please, sir, to remain while I accompany this lady a short distance?" Evidently, I had put to flight somebody whose presence would have been more useful than mine, but I set about repairing the mischief as well as I could. Advancing toward the corner where the woman was lying, I inquired, as kindly as I could,--.   MYSELF.          39 "Are you very ill, madam?" "Quite ill. I don't know that I shall ever be better. And it would not much matter," she added, "if poor Julia was only provided for." She placed her thin arm around the child. "Poor Julia " she uttered, "what will become of you?" "Don't think so much about me, pray don't!" said the child, plaintively. "This gentleman gave me such a nice supper, and I feel so well now. You'll feel well, too, after you've had something to eat. He has brought lots of things,-a whole cold chicken, some jelly, and cakes, and some oranges, and I don't know what else." "I don't know," responded the woman, gloomily; "I feel as though I was past eating." "Oh, no, I hope not so bad as that," said I, cheerily as I could, though I hardly knew what to do or say. "Perhaps an orange or a bit of jelly would do you good." And I passed the basket to the child. A look of suffering and almost despair passed across the countenance of the woman. "I don't think I shall need anything long. I don't want anything." Then, correcting herself, she said, "But this is wicked. No, I'll not complain, Julia dear. I will try to eat for your sake." With much difficulty, she arose to a sitting posture. "Wasn't something said about a doctor?" she asked. "The man who went out," replied little Julia, "said that he had sent for Dr. Fisher." Just then some men came up the stairs. I went to the door and found a man with an armful of wood, and another with a lantern and some packages of groceries. "This is the place, I suppose," said the foremost, enter- ing and putting his wood down by the stove. His com- panion deposited his parcels on the table, and then both took their leave. The little girl had uncovered the basket, and was feed- ing her mother with some of the jelly. Hunger seemed to have had much to do with her illness, although her cheeks were flushed with fever. While the child was thus engaged, I kindled a fire in the stove,   "O         MYSE L F.  I had barely concluded and placed a kettle of water on to heat, when Robert returned, bringing with him Dr. Fisher. The doctor was a rather spare man, of ordinary height, perhaps fifty years of age. He went directly to the woman, put aside the girl, the basket, and the jelly, drew up a broken stool, sat down and took her wrist. Then he ordered a lamp, examined her face, and requested a sight of her tongue. "You are in a pretty bad condition, madam," said he, on concluding the examination. "How long have you been lying here?" "Nearly a week; though I have not been so bad that I could not sit up a portion of the time, till to-day. But I don't expect to sit up again. I don't suppose I shall recover, sir." "Pooh! pooh! nonsense! Not so bad as that. You are too despondent," responded the doctor, cheerily. !"You are pretty low; but then care and attention will undo what want and disease have done." "Care and attention!" uttered the woman, with a laugh that sounded hysterical. "4 How am I to get that? In the city nobody cares for another." "A little severe,-a little too severe," said the doctor. "There are a good many generous souls in the city, after all." "Perhaps so," she replied, softening. "I know I am uncharitable and fretful. I shouldn't be; but such suffer- ing in a land of Christians is hard to bear. I have prayed long and earnestly that I might be submissive; and have tried to trust in the promises of Him who says He will be a friend to the widow and the fatherless." "And the God of the widow and the fatherless has heard your prayer," said the doctor, fervently. "He has sent you to-night a friend in your need that will be a friend indeed. So you must not be gloomy any longer. Courage is always the best of medicine. You may consider your troubles are over, for the present at least." I marked the change these words wrought in the woman's countenance. Tears started in little Julia's eyes as he spoke, and she clasped her hands in joy. The doctor exam- ined the contents of the basket, and passed a biscuit to her.    MYSELF.         I 4 "Come, sis," said he, cheerily, "that won't hurt you. I think you must not eat too much of this jelly, madam. Gruel is much better. You have fasted so long that your stomach is very weak. Robert, we must have a nurse. There's need of constant attendance here. Care, and not medicine, is what she wants. Mrs. Walker is at----," mentioning the place. I volunteered to go for her, but Robert interposed, and said he could bring her in half the time in a carriage. "Take my chaise in the street," responded the doctor; "and you, sir,"--to me,--" may stay and assist me till he returns. I want some gruel. Do you know how to make it?" "I guess so, if I only had the materials. At any rate, I'll try." The doctor pointed to the packages on the table. "See what's there; Robert has excellent foresight." I examined the packages, and found the meal, and set about making the gruel. The doctor mixed a powder and gave the woman, and as she lay back again I observed her eyes close and her lips move, as if in prayer. Not long after a hand-cartman came with a field-bedstead and bed- ding. That's it," said the doctor, who had superseded me in the making of the gruel, speaking as though the whole matter was perfectly intelligible. c Now, if you will bring it in and set it up. Just see that the sheets are well aired, will you?" As I went about it, I heard him muttering to himself,- "Must be moved from here,-too little air; and what there is, is poisonous."     t I soon had the bed set up and made. The doctor ex- amined it, and pronounced it all right. "Now, my good woman, we'll give you a more comfort- able resting-place. Young man, if you will please assist. " We lifted her to the cot. She was very weak. As she lay down again, her head propped up with pillows, she appeared quite cheerful. "I didn't think, this morning, when I sank down over- come, and prayed to God for relief, that it would come so soon. I shall never be skeptical again. He certainly does   "2         MYSELF E not forsake those who will apply to Him in their dis- tress."  "That's true," replied the doctor, devoutly; "He is near to us when all else seems to have deserted us. God  has sent you kind friends, madam, and you have great  reason to be thankful."  "I am," she returned. "I wouldn't be a tax on any  one's charity, if I could help it. I stood out as long as I could. Everything was gone,-money, fire, food. I was  helplessly ill. I couldn't see Julia starve, and so I sent her out to beg. People cannot provide for their children  when they are so ill they can't work." Her eyes wandered about the room. Julia had sat down by the stove, and the warmth acting as a somnolent, she had leaned against the wall and fallen asleep. "I don't see Julia. You haven't sent her out again?"  she asked. "She is there by the stove, taking things quite corn- fortably," remarked the doctor. "Don't trouble your- self about her; she'll do well enough. We'll make her a  bed pretty soon." "Poor girl! poor thing!" sighed the woman. "I'm  afraid she's suffered so. She's all that binds me to earth. "      . - - The doctor had turned away to attend to his gruel, and  as I saw it was his desire to keep the patient as quiet as possible, I slipped down to the door. The locality was one of the most repulsive at the South End. I stood there some time, communing with my own thoughts con- cerning life, its hopes and disappointments, its joys and sorrows and miseries, when Robert came in with the nurse.  Showing her up the stairs, he returned, and accosting me  kindly, thanked me for the services I had rendered, adding,-  "We'll not trouble you further to-night. I shall stay with the nurse, and assist her in what she wants. If the woman isn't better to-morrow night, perhaps we should like to have you sit up, if you will." I signified my willingness for such a service at any mo- ment. He thanked me, requested my address, which I furnished him, and then I went back for the napkin in   A MYSELF         143 which I had brought the chicken. The doctor had just concluded his directions to the nurse, and we passed out and went up into the street together, without exchanging a word. As he set foot on the step of his chaise, he so far broke the silence as to ask, "Do you know that family?" "The little girl said her name was Carter," I replied. "Carter? Carter? Hm! Yes; thank you. Good- night." And he sprang into his vehicle and drove off. The following day the incident was much in my mind; and a desire to know more of the singular case led me that evening to visit the locality. I found the tenement deserted. I could only learn from the neighboring ten- ants that Mrs. Carter had been moved that afternoon. The muttered remark of Dr. Fisher occurred to my mind, and I retraced my steps to the hotel. A month passed, and the affair was gradually fading from my mind. I saw Dr. Fisher on the street once, but that was all that called my attention to it. I might have felt suspicious of Robert and his mysterious mistress, only the well-known character of Dr. Fisher, who seemed to know them, forbid it.    "4          MYSELF. CHAPTER   XIV.           : In which my Opportunity arrives; and I place my Foot on the First Round of the Ladder. ONE forenoon Mr. Silsbee passed a note into me from the office. I opened it, and read: II Will Mr. Head have the kindness to call at the office of the undersigned, No. - Court Street, this afternoon, at four-o'clock; or, if not convenient this afternoon, then to-morrow, at the same hour? "PHLIP WILLIS. ' I had not the remotest idea why I was wanted at the office of this gentleman. I knew him to be a wealthy personage,-the possessor of an aristocratic residence on Beacon Hill. He was, by profession, an attorney, but I had learned some time before that he kept an office on Court Street more for the transaction of his own private business than for the accommodation of clients. At the hour indicated I presented myself at his office. The boy told me that Mr. Willis had stepped out for a few moments, but would soon return. He came in pres- ently,---a man of rising forty-five, with iron-gray hair, tall, straight, and commanding in appearance, an eye keen and searching, and a countenance, when at rest, that indi- cated a sadness from sorrows past. rather than from troubles present. He made a slight inclination of his head, as I arose, with his note in my hand. "Is this Mr. Head, to whom I addressed a note this morning?' i I replied'in the affirmative. He gazed at me keenly. "You are kind, and very prompt, sir." "I have an hour and a half of leisure each afternoon," said I, "and I thought I could answer the note as well to-day as to-morrow, sir."   M YSELF.          45 "5 Mr. Willis looked at his watch. "At what hour must you return?" "At five." "Three-quarters of an hour. Very well; I think that will do. Walk this way." I followed him to an inner office. He closed the door, and bade me be seated. I was struck with the peculiarly covert gaze with which he regarded me. Taking a seat likewise, he said,- ' I wish to ascertain what you know of a Mrs. Carter, a woman who was sick in, Court, at the South End, a short time ago." Without waiting to ask myself why the information was desired, I replied,-- "I saw her one night, sir, and only one." "Do you know where she is now?" "I do not." "Will you please to relate to me what you do know of her? You say you saw her one night; tell me the cir- cumstances." And Mr. Willis leaned back in his chair, in an easy attitude for listening. Briefly as possible I ran over the incidents of that even- ing. As I closed, he asked,- "Are you acquainted with Dr. Fisher?" "No, sir."  While the keen eyes of Mr. Willis were busy with my countenance, my own eyes were not idle with his. I de- tected neither satisfaction nor regret at anything I had related. He only proceeded with his questions, as though I had been a witness undergoing an examination in court. Like a lawyer, he did not allow his countenance to betray him, and even used it as a mask. "This veiled lady you spoke of," he said; "should you know her and her attendant if you should meet them again?" "I think I should the attendant, but not the lady," I replied ; she was so deeply veiled that I could not dis- tinguish her features."  "Would you recognize Mrs. Carter?" That would depend upon the condition I should meet her in. If in health, I think not; possibly I should not  13     "YSELF. recognize her in any condition. It was in the night, sir; there was but one dim light, and-ight recog- understand. But the little girl-you might recog- nize her, I should think?" I shook my head doubtingly. "I might, if I should meet her in a similar condition, or if I should hear her talk. But you must be aware, sir, that a change in condition soon obliterates those marks by which I now remember her."' ", That's true." And then he leaned his elbow on the table, and sat a moment as if musing. The interest he seemed to manifest in these persons excited my curiosity; but I volunteered no suggestions nor information. Mr. Willis shortly remarked,- 'My inquiries may have been rather minute, but I have" -here he lifted himself up from his leaning position on the table--" quite an interest in those persons. Law- yers once in awhile stumble on just such cases. The only clue that I seem to get here, beyond what you know, seems to be Dr. Fisher." Here I betrayed myself. "Dr. Fisher," said 1, "seemed to know the lady and her attendan t. He called the latter Robert, very familiarly." "Ah, indeed!" he exclaimed. ' Then here is some- thing gained, certainly. Possibly you may learn from the doctor just what- I want to know. Young men are not wholly without curiosity. Do you know the doctor?" "Only by sight. I have seen him once since then." "And did not ask after the woman and child you as- sisted in relieving?' Well, sir, as to that," I replied, with a smile, "I sup- posed they had fallen into good hands, and, as I am not in a condition to render anybody much service, I didn't run after the doctor's carriage to make useless inquiries. "A very sensible course, Mr. Head. Yet you are not aware how important your knowledge of the locality of that woman at present would be." I excused myself by saying that not knowing the mat- ter was to have an important termination, I had not ren- dered myself inquisitive.             *   MYSELEF.        I47 Mr. Willis again mused, and after some moments' silence, asked,- "Is your situation at the hotel permanent?" I thought the question a singular one. "It is just as permanent as this, sir," I replied: "when I fail to suit, I shall get discharged; when I get dissatis- fied, or can find a better place, I shall leave." "What wages do you get Dl "Small wages," I answered, evasively. '"Twenty dollars a month?" "I wish I did." "Hm!"He shrugged his shoulders. "I suppose you have no education?" I felt the blood flowing to my face. This carrying the inquisition into my own private matters was rather too much. Still, I determined to maintain a respectful man- ner; it would do me no harm, at all events. "I never was in college," said I, quietly. "That does not always make an education," remarked Mr. Willis. "A good common-school, if well improved, sometimes does better. A sensible boy will learn more there than a dunce at the university." "Well, I've been to common-school," said I; "I can read and write." "How well can you write?"He gathered pen, ink, and paper and pushed them towards me. "Let's see a specimen.'" Considerably embarrassed, I moved to the table, and wrote several commonplace paragraphs, and passed them to him. "Very well done," said he,--" plain and neat, without those ornamental flourishes of vain young men. I like that. Some people display their- whole characters in their autographs. You impress me favorably." I did not know whether I should thank him for a com- pliment or construe his remarks as a sarcasm; so I only bowed, saying nothing. He regarded me a moment at- tentively, and then said,- "In case I should wish to engage your services, could you, besides taking care of my office, assist me with my copying?"   X48 .        MYSELF. I was not unaware of the importance of his suggestion of a change of places. . I was most heartily sick of my present degraded position. Yet I was suspicious. If I was needed to hunt up Mrs. Carter, would I be wanted longer than the time consumed in effecting it? If not, I had better not change. These thoughts rapidly suggested themselves. "I should be willing to do all I could for any employer that was reasonable," said I; "but in this case it depends on the character of the engagement." "What am I to understand by that?" he asked. "Do you mean to intimate that you wouldn't change your present place for a better one?" "Oh, no, sir." ec Then you question whether entering my service would be better. Is that it?" "Pretty near it," said I. He made a grimace. "I hope you'll understand me. If I were sure of a permanent place in your office, it would be different. I've no ex- perience in copying, and might make blunders, and not give satisfaction. I shouldn't be contented if I didn't satisfy you. A steady situation at low wages I consider better than a transient one at high wages. Young men like me cannot afford to lay on their oars. If they can't sail they must row, and if they can't row they must scull." A curious expression passed over the features of Mr. Willis,-a half-smile of amusement over my attempt at metaphor. "That's a good view of it," said he. "You think, per- haps, that you define my object in tendering you a situa- tion. If I set you at ease on the score of wages and the permanency of a situation, I suppose it will remove your objections?" ' If satisfied that the change would be an advantage in other respects." "Humph!"  He gave another of his peculiar shrugs. ' You do good credit, young man, to a Yankee education, the great inculcation being, ' Take care of thyself.' "' "Why not?"I retorted as bluntly as he,!" when there is nobody else to take care of me." "That's true enough. -If everybody would take good care of themselves, the world would be improved."   MYSEZLF. "9 "I consider it a duty with a young man like myself," said I, "who is poor and without friends, to ascertain what benefit is to result from a change of situations. Too frequent changes promote unsteady habits, and without some particular reason for them, should be avoided." "That is right, sir," he replied, heartily; ' lquite right. You appear to be a sensible young man, sir, and I think I can make a change in your situation that will be an ad- vantage. I have no doubt but we can make it quite per- manent, too." Apparently, Mr. Willis spoke very sincerely; but the offer was so sudden and wholly unexpected, that I could be only distrustful. He relieved me from embarrassment, however, by proposing that I should consider the subject till the following day. Then, if I pleased, I might pro- pose the terms for which I would enter his service,--take care of his office, assist occasionally as a copyist, act as messenger, collector, and the like,-the gist of the matter being to make myself generally useful. He did not fail to set forth the advantages it afforded over my present situation. It would put me in the way of doing better at a future day. At the same time he did fail to remind  me that the change would involve ad- ditional expense. I must dress well; but that would be justly chargeable to him. I thanked him for his hints, and took my leave, to return the following afternoon. The intervening time was nervously passed. I thought much and anxiously about the affair. If the situation should be bonafide, and notla sham, it must be greatly to my advantage. I calculated it so far as to think of making it the stepping-stone to the profession of law. It was not the first time I had dreamed of such things, and now the chance of doing something having approached so near, it set my  heart to knocking about very strangely. Odd it was that he should offer me a situation, to fill which he could make a hundred better selections. Evi- dently, he must discharge his office-boy to give me the place.  He would do all this without a commensurate object-that was plain. When and how did he hear of my connection with Mrs. Carter, who, according to the words dropped by her daughter, had seen better times 13*   1I MYSELF. when her husband was alive? That he had heard of it was certain; and it was just as certain that I was necessary to the accomplishment of some purpose he had in view. Was it good or bad? Here was the rub. The little I knew of Mr. Willis led me to suppose that he was not a dishonorable man. Still, human nature is steeped in de- ceit. Mrs. Carter could be no client of his, for who ever heard of a counsel ignorant of his client's whereabouts? I was full of suspicions. I did not condemn him in ad- vance, but I determined to keep my eyes wide open. I was aware that in accepting his offer I did not commit myself to the commission of anything that would be to the injury of the poor woman. Indeed, if any wrong was intended her, I should be in just the situation to learn it, and, if necessary, to counteract and defeat it. The whole thing then turned on its advantage to me. Though the situation might not be pleasant, if I could get paid suffi- ciently well for the time that I might stay, it would be an advantage to accept. I resolved on fixing terms that would be satisfactory for so short a stay as six months. Twenty-five dollars per month, exclusive of board,-just double the amount I was now getting-was the sum I set- tled upon. I would leave the price that I should pay for board to his own suggestion. I felt that I was bold in fixing on such high wages, but was surprised when he told me that he thought I should ask thirty dollars a month, and if I did well he would give that sum. He appeared well pleased that I left the matter of board to him, saying he wished me to provide myself with a good place and have the bill rendered to him. It took but a short time to adjust the remaining prelim- inaries. The rules of the hotel required me to give a fort- night's notice before leaving. The agreement was that I should give the notice immediately, and come as soon as the fortnight expired. So I left him with the thing settled. As I went away he dropped a hint that if I should hear anything of Mrs. Carter during the fortnight, I should keep it quiet and in- form him. It matters little how I resolved to treat that hint. "There are none so deaf as those who won't hear."   MYSELF.           5x I gave my notice on returning to the hotel, and went about my business. The only noteworthy incident of the two weeks was an unsuccessful attempt on the part of Mr. Holman to retain me at the hotel,-offering me an advance, first of two, then three, and finally four dollars a month. But my word had been passed. I had accepted Mr. Willis's proposition, and did not think I should be justified in breaking it, or in trying to modify it to my further advantage. The idea of entering, some future time, as a student in Mr. Willis's office, was a strong temptation to hazard all chances of a change. Finding he could not tempt me to remain, Mr. Holman contented himself with saying that I might return at any time I saw fit, and go to work at sixteen dollars a month. "It is not always," he said, "that a person finds his new situation, on trial, to prove what he anticipated." "Really," thought I, as I contemplated this satisfactory offer, "the affair hasn't been of any disadvantage to me so far. I am sure of an advance of four dollars a month in any event.?" CHAPTER XV. In which I indulge in a Panegyric on Labor, and get Enthusiastic over the Subject. SOME of my readers may not thank me-dwelling so mi- nutely on this matter of wages. A dollar a month may be a very small consideration to those who count their an- nual salaries or incomes by thousands. To me, however, it was an important item. As such it is a part of my his- tory. It affected me only as it affects thousands of Amer- ican youths. "Take care of the pence," said Poor Rich- ard, "and the pounds will take care of themselves. Homely advice; but just such advice as it behooves all to follow who have to carve their own way in the world. There may be those upon whose sense grates harshy   I52         MYSELF. the idea of manual labor. If there are, I beg them to lay aside this story and proceed with me no farther. When Adam was driven in disgrace from Paradise he was told that hereafter in the sweat of his face should he eat bread; and from that time forth the sons of Adam have found labor a necessity of life. Literally, men do eat bread in the sweat of their faces. If there be those who shirk the penalty by putting the necessity of earning their bread upon others, the laws of their being compel them to pay a heavier penalty for the evasion. The phys- ical system of man demands labor, or it becomes disor- dered and diseased. People who affect to sneer at the workingman, the artisan and toiler, have their own daily labor which they endeavor to dignify by the title of Ex- ercise. What is Exercise but labor under another name, with the demerit of being unproductive, save in the matter of health? The man of leisure, turning up his nose at the honest tiller of the soil who supplies his table with food, labors in a variety of ways for health, not one of those ways of any practical benefit beyond the procurement of that health. He calls it Exercise. Labor is a great law of our being. We can't avoid it without physical death. A lazy people is a dying people. No nation ever died out until it become enervated. by sloth, corrupted by idleness. In some of our penitentia- ries there is a mode of punishment for convicts who refuse to work. They are placed in a cell into which water is allowed to flow. A pump is set within their reach, and by making vigorous use of it the convict can save his life. If he fails, the water rises until it submerges the cell and its inmate. Pump or drown is the alternative of all who are subjected to this mode of punishment. When the Almighty placed the ordeal of labor on man, he placed him :much in the condition of these convicts. With him it is work or die. Call it by whatever name you please,- Exercise, Recreation, or Labor, man must work or he must decay and die. The people -of New England are a working people. Their history is but a history of privation, hardship, and labor. The climate of New England is not inviting; its soil is rough and sterile. Yet its people have prospered.   MYSELF.          I53 The fame of their energy and industry is world-wide. Their commerce has whitened every sea; their productions reach every quarter of the habitable globe. The sons of New England, though sometimes sneered at as the descend- ants of Roundheads and Puritans, stand up in the no- bleness of manhood and challenge comparison with any people in the world. They may not be giants, but they are not pigmies. Machiavel tells us that colonies planted in sterile places are more sure of success than those planted in places more fertile. History seems to prove the truth of the assertion. Had the Pilgrim Fathers been put down on the broad and fertile prairies of the West, instead of stepping from the Mayflower on New England's "rock-bound coast," we might entertain a doubt if their descendants 'had ever attained their present position of thrift, enterprise, and energy. They had to be a stirring people in order to main- tain an existence. If colonies thus planted in sterile places have prospered beyond those in more fertile situa- tions, it is because they have in the blessing of Providence found health, strength, endurance, and prosperity in labor. When Rome prospered, her consuls and senators were taken from the plow. When her emperors became ener- vated by luxury and sloth, she declined and fell,--was over- run by hordes of Goths and Vandals, those active pirati- cal laborers of the North. Idleness is the parent of vice; industry the mother of virtue. It was the prayer of one that he be given neither riches nor poverty. There was much wisdom in the petition. Keep a nation neither too poor to become despondent and oppressed, nor too rich to become idle and luxurious, and that nation will never decay. Saddle it with an unpro- ductive, lazy ruling class, and if they do not destroy its life, it will be for the reason that the nation has the most vitality, and they first destroy themselves. An idle nobil- ity, the world over, is maintained only by accessions from the commoners,-the active working, producing classes. The progress of man is like the growth of a tree. He goes onward and upward in the scale until he gets beyond the necessity of labor. Then if he ceases to labor, he com- mences dying out, and in the course of a few generations   154         Y IMYSELF. his family name is extinct. Few of the nobility of Great Britian can trace their lineage very far back in the past. There it is lost among the common people. The nobility of- to-day were the serfs of the days of the Plantagenets and Tudors. Though by nature averse to labor, and shrinking from its demands, man is blessed by it. He may avoid its re- quirements by robbing another of the fruits of his toil, and subsisting-thereon, spending his own time in listless- ness and inaction, but he pays dearly for his mistake. Such a course tends only to his disadvantage. A slothful race deteriorates, and finally runs out. He whose only study is to kill time, rather than usefully improve it, knows nothing of the keen enjoyment that follows the having of something to do,-something that is worth doing. Wealthy idlers know little or nothing of the sweet sleep that follows honest toil, and are strangers to that good di- gestion which waits on the appetite of the .man who has plenty of physical exertion. So life has its compensa- tions. If the laborer is deprived of luxuries, he is exempt from the torments of gout, ennui, and indigestion. If he eats coarse and homely viands from a wooden trencher, his labor is a salt which makes them sweeter to his palate than all the dainties that tempt the appetite of the idle, though they dine in a palace and receive their food from golden salvers. Labor keeps man in health. If he be not overworked, he has only " a speaking acquaintance" with his physician. His years spin out in number. His old age is hale and hearty, and he goes down to the grave with the reflection that he has been of use in the world, and that he has en- joyed it, while his rich and idle neighbor sinks, diseased, into the tomb, long before he has outlived the allotted span of life, only too glad to "shuffle off a mortal coil" that, through his fatal mistake in choosing idleness in- stead of activity, he has made a'curse instead of a bless- ing, a burden instead of a pleasure. Labor may be abused. Through these abuses it has come to be looked upon as irksome, and even degrading. It is too often inadequately remunerated. It is often over-   MYSELF. taxed, and often pinched with want. This occurs most frequently in those countries wherein it is held in the least repute, and where an idle aristocracy has to be supported by the producers,---where the laborer is compelled to sup- port not only himself, but a rich and lazy gentry. For this abuse of labor let the old world answer. There labor has been led to look upon idleness as superiority, and those who are born with an inheritance of labor go to it in con- sequence as a galley-slave to his oars, thinking it a punish- ment and a curse, rather than an honored and honorable blessing,-the highest and best gift of an indulgent Provi- dence to his children. If man were enabled to obtain his food without labor; if he could clothe himself to his desire without trouble; if he could obtain his knowledge without effort; if, in short, all that he now acquires by great mental and physi- cal labor came to him by instinct on demand, and he had nothing to do but to eat and lie down, like the swine, he would be more like the swine than like a man. We see this exemplified in the inhabitants of those climates where the productions of Nature are spontaneous, and they are enabled to live without toil. These people are effeminate and barbarous. The highest types of civilization have ever existed in the temperate-zone, where Nature has to be coaxed with the plow and the hoe into furnishing sustenance to the human family. In the torrid zone she is too generous, and man suffers from that generosity. - In the frigid zone Nature is too parsimonious, and man suffers from that ex- treme. In the temperate zone she has established a golden mean,- giving neither too much nor too little,-and there man reaches his highest intellectual and physical state. As it was at this point of my life I ceased to labor man- ually for my support, it is but fitting that I should submit 'this testimony in regard to labor. It is pleasant to be above the necessity of continuous and systematic toil for one's subsistence, as it is pleasant to be independent in all things. But there have been subsequent days in my life when, suffering from the effects of too much mental and too little physical exertion, I have envied even those who   i5 6  -       MYSELF. shoveled dirt in the streets, and thought their comforts superior. to mine. My free and happy boyhood, albeit I labored hard every day on my father's farm, shone like a star out of the past, while the present, in my disorganized and dyspeptic state, seemed the foretaste of hell. CHAPTER XVI. I make the Acquaintance of a Lawyer's Office, and a Law Student, and learn various Curious Things. ON the morning agreed upon I presented myself at the office of Mr. Willis at an early hour. The boy was just opening. Mr. Willis did not come in till near eleven o'clock. He greeted me kindly, saying that he should be absent from the city a few days, and requested me to make myself as comfortable as possible; and if I tired of the office, to amuse myself about the city. He was absent a week, during which time I became pretty well acquainted with Master George, the office-boy, and the large law and miscellaneous library I found in the office. The mis- cellaneous books were mostly rare and valuable.  I soon found that my place, or at least the beginning of it, was almost a sinecure. Mr. Willis had an agent distinct from his office, who looked after his rents and business matters. The number of his clients was not large. Every morning I was present to assist Master George in opening, yet I could see no signs that he was to be dis- missed. At length I ventured to ask him if he expected to leave. He quite contentedly remarked that Mr. Willis was his guardian, and that if he took him from the office it would be to put him into a store, which he should like much better. A month or more passed in this manner, during a large portion of which time Mr. Willis was ab- sent. I occupied myself with lounging about the office, and attending to the few calls that were made. There were many law-offices in the building, and a stu- dent in the one adjoining early took occasion to pay me   MYSELF.           5 7 157 a visit and seek my acquaintance. He did not confine himself to a single visit, but came twice, thrice, and some- times half a dozen times a day. I soon found that Mr. Edward Whiting, or, as he was more familiarly known, Ned Whiting, was a clever fellow; if not in the English, certainly in the American acceptation of the term. If "a gift of the gab," or cacoethes loquendi, a fair share of wit and humor, and a power for ready retort be all that is necessary to a lawyer, then young Whiting was ," cut out" for that profession. He was a great talker, and, like Praed's Vicar,- "His talk was like a stream, that runs With rapid change from rocks to roses; It slipped from politics to puns,- It passed from Mohammed to Moses." Master George early had the kindness to hint that if I were wise, I should be discreet in imparting information to Whiting. It was quite enough to put me on my guard. I allowed him, on his own suggestion, to consider me a regularly-entered law-student at the office of Mr. Willis. My patronymic was the same with that of several families in the city, and without stopping to inquire, Whiting put me down as a branch of them. He believed that Mr. Willis was distantly related to the Heads. Perhaps he was my relative; probably so distant that I made little ac- count of it. I simply nodded in reply. He then sup- posed that I was acquainted with Mr. Willis's family, par- ticularly with his daughter, Miss Mary. I was obliged to reply in the negative, at which he seemed greatly surprised. He asked if I was a native of the city. "No," said I. "That accounts for it. I suppose you have just left college, though you look rather old for a recent graduate. You are not much acquainted with Mr. Willis, you say?" !"Quite a stranger, knowing him only by reputation." "And a rather singular reputation has the old fellow got. I wonder a person who wishes to get a good insight to law should enter his office." "Why not?"I began to get a little interested. "Isn't he a good lawyer?" I4   I58         MYSELF. "His principles," replied Whiting, with a shrug, "are better than his practice. He will post you up in the theory, and if you get on his right side, your fortune is as good as made. He is able to put one in the best positions in Boston." !"A rather odd gentleman," I remarked. My curiosity was getting wide awake, and I saw that I might be grati- fied and amused through my visitor. "Odd as an Odd-Fellow," was the reply. And then he sat down, and without any further effort on my part to draw him out, gave me Mr. Willis's history. According to Whiting, Mr. Willis had spent most of his manhood in Europe. Before he went there he studied law, notwithstanding his father was one of the wealthiest merchants in Boston, and the son had no pressing need of a profession. He was early a rising attorney. The fathers of the bar prophesied that he would in time stand at its head. Suddenly he threw up his practice, aban- doned his office, and went to Europe. No reason was assigned for the singular procedure. He resided abroad for twenty years, visited every country of note in the old world, and stopped for a longer or shorter period in nearly every great metropolis. He spoke a half-dozen languages fluently. None knew that he was ever married, but on his father's decease, four years previously, he returned to Boston, succeeded to the family estate, and soon after surprised everybody by exhibiting to the world a most beautiful and accomplished daughter, who, they said, had been the attendant of his ramblings abroad. Mr. Willis had been an only son. There were two sis- ters, one of whom died without issue, so that the whole patrimonial estate had been divided among the two re- maining. Whiting informed me that Mr. Willis's share was , princely," adding that Miss Mary was a half-mil lion prize for somebody. And he soon gave me to un derstand that he intended taking a ticket in the lottery, languidly remarking, with a smile that corresponded, that he had already found a blank,--beneath his ribs. !"But you must see her," he continued, " and you will acknowledge with me that she is a prize, independent of her prospective fortune. She is educated, accomplished,   MYSELF.         . 159 witty, and beautiful,--four recommendations. And then she has a fifth,-the acknowledged belle of Beacon Hill." "No chance for a lawyer's clerk," said I, demurely, but with a spice of malice. "I don't know about that. The governor is an odd fish, and if he took it in his head, would as soon have her carried off by a wood-sawyer on his horse as by a gentle- man's son in a barouche. For one who has lived under monarchies and aristocracies so long, he is a devil of a democrat,--as great a leveler as Tom Hyer. He shakes hands with his market-man, and invited the agent of his farms in the country to dinner every time the old codger came to town, keeping it up till the old fellow died. Miss Mary copies him as faithfully as she ever did her writing-master. She walks the circuit of the Common every morning before half the young gentlemen have com- pleted their first nap. When promenading Washington Street with a beau, she is sure to stop some rusty fellow and inquire after his wife and babies in the country. She, always bows to the charcoal-man, and recognizes and nods to her servant-girls, no matter where she meets them. They have a summer residence in Brookline, and she fre- quently rides back and forth with the market-man. One day, while passing, I saw her being driven down in the field on a hay-cart. I did, by George!" "A sensible girl," said'I, after hearing this enumeration of what he termed her oddities. "So everybody thinks; but if she wasn't English bred, I hardly believe that would be the opinion. At first there were faint signs of rebellion, but the majority said that a person who had been reared in Europe ought to know what good society demanded; and so they began to de- fend her. Imitation required rather too much physical exertion and early rising; and with the exception of sis- ter Bell, who manages to rise with the sun about two morn- ings in the week, she still revolves about her Common orbit alone. It matters but little with her, though. Ac- complished, beautiful, an heiress, she never lacks admirers. All the young men are ready to swear by her. And our literati are quite enamored of her, and consider her one of their best patrons. She has the poets, the historians,   6o,         MYSELF. theologians, essayists, and politicians at her tongue's end. She'll talk with the farmer on rotation of crops, and give him as much rural chemistry as Solly, and geology as Hitchcock. She knows more of the early fathers of the church than half our clergymen, and seems to have made politics the study of her lifetime." The extravagant' praise of Mr. Ned Whiting led me to rather suspect his seriousness, and so when he closed by saying she was quite a lion among the "good society" people, I merely bowed in acquiescence and said nothing. "You'll have to be introduced to her. I know she'll interest you." How he deluded himself! I cared less for an acquaint- ance with fifty such as her than I did to get on that "right side" of Mr. Willis. -What were her charms and accom- plishments to me? At length Mr. Willis removed from Brookline to the city, and thereafter spent- much of his time at the office. He appeared to me a vigorous, healthy, temperate man, of kindly nature, though a man of strong passions and opinions. Once or twice I detected signs of melancholy which he studiously endeavored to conceal. I surprised him several times, on entering the office, with his head drooping. He started quickly up and made his exit to the inner apartment. I was surprised to find that he made no inquiries con- cerning the woman Carter. He had never referred to her but once, and then seemed to speak of her as a person in whom his interest had nearly ceased. Occasionally he observed the books that I took down to read, and once hinted that I might find it beneficial to look a little into Blackstone. The longer I remained in the office the more copying I found to be done. Legal phraseology was becoming familiar. I knew the whole family of corppus, from corpus delicti to corpus sine fectore. The difference between a fieri facias and a scire facias was quite apparent; as also the difference between a malumrn in se and a malumprohib- itum. Furthermore, I indorsed the phrase, "salus populi suprema est lex," as very good common sense, though not always recognized by our lawgivers. But with or without   MYSELF.          6 I the help of lexicons, there was one thing that I could not solve, cudgel my brains as I would; and that was, for what earthly reason Mr. Willis retained me in his office. Master George was still employed, and there was not writing enough to keep me from rusting. One day as Mr. Willis came into the office, Ned Whit- ing was there. He accosted him politely, but, I thought, rather formally. When Ned was gone, and he departed very soon, Mr. Willis inquired if I had made his acquaint- ance to any extent. "Very slightly," I replied. "I have seen him only as he visits the office. He is a student at the next door." "Yes. Hm! He's not a bad young man at all." The negative indorsement attracted my attention. A few days subsequent, Mr. Willis introduced to me in the office a young man named Charles Anderson. Mr. Anderson greeted me kindly,-I thought rather warmly, -saying he was most happy in making my acquaintance. He was a young man of prepossessing appearance, and seemed sensible and well informed. Mr. Willis's manner toward him was quite familiar. When he arose to leave, Mr. Anderson gave me his card, and said he should be very happy if I would call on him at his place of business. I found he was the confidential clerk of a large and re- spectable house down-town. "A very excellent young man,'.' said Mr. Willis. "He appears to be, sir," I observed. "A young man of very good habits, and of unsurpassed business capacity. He has made himself, too, with the exception of the assistance I have given him. He is the son of one of my old country tenants." A moment or two after, as if correcting an indiscretion, he added,- "That is not known, though." I took the hint. "Which means that I must not inform Ned Whiting of it," said I to myself. At times Mr. Willis was quite sociable and communi- catlve,-opening to me the rich treasures of his knowledge and experience as freely as though I were a fellow-traveler lunching with him at an hostel at the foot of the Alps. At I4*   162         AN YSEL F. other times he resembled an instructor with his pupil. Then, occupied with his own business, he was business- like; and then, neglecting business altogether, he shunned the office, scarcely noticed me, and gave unmistakable evidence of a tendency to misanthropy. I saw that I was dealing with no common man. Three months passed away, and Mr. Willis gave me a check for my wages, and the amount of my board-bill. At the same time he presented me with an order on a tailoring firm on the opposite side of the street. "I don't well recollect whether the matter of clothing was in the bargain or not," said he; " but, as you are ex- pected to dress well, I suppose I ought to pay for it. You will please order a couple of suits at present. Your clothes"--and he eyed me from head to foot-" may do well enough for students in country law-offices, but not in mine." '*But I'm not a student, nor was anything said about clothing," I replied. "Besides, this order is a standing and unlimited one." "Just what I intended it. You are at full liberty to draw on me for all your clothing." I felt a demurrer rising in my throat. My Yankee spirit of independence forbid me accepting a gratuity from any man. I did not fancy placing myself under any such obligations to him. "But, sir, I "I stammered badly enough. It was a- temptation,-the order I held in my hand. "I object to  " "To what? If I am content, why need you com- plain?" "It was no part of the bargain. It is doing for me more than I can earn in return." "Nonsense, sir! Suspicious that I have some sinister motive in view, I suppose? I'll hold you to no other ob- ligation save to accept the order and use it. I've bluntly told you that your clothes are not good enough for the office. The winter is severe, and you want a better over- coat." "I was intending to order a new suit, sir," said I, "this quarter."   MYSELF.     .63 "But you need-two suits. You need a suit for the office, and a better suit for special occasions. Now, it's useless for you to talk of affording them. You may, by- and-by, but you can't now. If I employ you to write for me, I furnish you with stationery; if to dig in my gar- den, I find you a spade. Now, if I wish you to dress well, why shall I not furnish you with the means?" With a sense of shame I put the order in my pocket. I should have been highly gratified with this proof of his esteem could I have freed myself from a feeling of de- pendence, and an idea that it was bestowed with a sinis- ter motive. After I had pocketed the paper, Mr. Willis said,- "Matters have changed since our engagement. Master George will not leave at present, and your duties are less, therefore, on account of his remaining." My heart sank. "It is the preliminary to my dismissal, " thought I. "The clothing is given to take the curse off." With the thought went all my bright visions of studying law. "Well," said I, " either one was at liberty to throw up the engagement when dissatisfied. I am ready to leave you at any moment." There was a Yankee independence, and a little of the bravado, in my voice. "Are you dissatisfied?" he asked, looking surprised. "Oh, no, sir." "Can you do better?" "Not that I know of; but I never like to remain in any one's service when I can't earn what he gives me." "Who says you can't earn what I give you? That's for me to judge. If I don't complain, pray why need you? If you are dissatisfied here, or think you can do better, and want to go, why, I shall not detain you. But I was going to propose-now that matters have changed, somewhat, and you have considerable leisure - that you take advantage of it by reading a little law. That is, if you wish to remain." How my heart leaped! This was too much to expect. My eyes almost betrayed my watery disposition. "H should be very glad, sir; but I am afraid it   I64         AMYSELF. would be study lost. I couldn't make any practical use of my readings." "Why not?" "I am not qualified for entering the law." "Parts and Poverty, according to high authority, are the only things needed by law-students. If you have tact, energy, and a full share of common sense, I will answer for you. It is not too late to learn what of the languages is necessary. You need not bend yourself fully to read- ing at first. There will still be copying, and you can fill up your leisure hours with Blackstone and other elementary works. By this course you will insensibly gain a knowl- edge of the profession, and not interfere with the present arrangement ," How this chimed with what I had all along fancied might be done! It was the realization of all that I had imagined could be, that I had hoped for, and had almost resolved to broach to Mr. Willis. The matter was soon settled, for I could not object to what I had so ardently desired; and I was at once in- stalled as a regularly-entered law-student in the office of Mr. Willis. Mr. Anderson came in soon after, and on being informed of my change of position, warmly con- gratulated me upon it. It was not the least of my gratification to know that I was released from the necessity of playing hypocrite to Ned Whiting. And speaking of Ned, Mr. Willis said,- "You mistrust your qualifications for the law. Here is your neighbor, who has had all the advantages that can be afforded for education, has influential connections, has been a student six months, and yet I prophesy you will be admitted first." Such language was a wonderful spur to my ambition. Yet the more I became acquainted with Whiting, the bet- ter did I understand the meaning of Mr. Willis's remark. His father was a methodical business man, who was deter- mined on rearing his sons to something useful. Ned had taken to the law as a choice of evils, -not that he had any especial love for it. Another brother was a partner with his father; another held the position of paymaster in one of the Lowell manufacturing companies.   MYSELF.          65 Ned lacked no qualifications for the profession he had chosen, save ambition; and he lacked ambition because his prospects in the future did not depend on his success with the green bag. His father had earned Ned a small fortune in advance; and so he took matters easy,-was a clever dawdler; studied when he liked, which was pre- cious little; charged his memory with what he liked, and spent more time over the small gossip of the day, retailed by the newspaper press, than he did with Coke or Black- stone. For a young Bostonian, his habits were very good, and spoke well for his training. He ran into few of the ex- travagancies that are the ruin of so many young men of his condition. He was not dissipated; not a great spend- thrift, though generous; and-a fact which showed how well he was treated at home--never cared to exchange a seat at his father's table for a suite of rooms at a fashion- able hotel. "Going the rounds of the hotels like a stale joke among the newspapers," said Ned, "is not at all to my taste. Like curses and chickens, I go home to roost." There was something of the wit about Ned, though his puns were commonplace. He often strained a point for the sake of a joke, and not unfrequently made an enemy by his propensity for sharp sayings. He was called pub- licly to account once for having said that a certain specu- lator in stocks appeared on 'Change, one day, looking like the ghost of Banquo. "What do you mean by such an insinuation?" was the indignant interrogatory of the devotee of the fickle god- dess that presided over the stock market. "Mean?   Why, only that you had no 'speculation' in your eyes, for a wonder," was the response. The laugh was against the fellow, who went off Ned's mortal enemy thenceforward. Master George is responsible for another story of Ned's retorts. A country tenant of Mr. Willis's, a small wool- grower, ascertained by chance that Ned had a brother con- nected with the Lowell mills. He took it for granted that it was a woolen-mill, and that the knowledge he possessed concerning that staple was diffused through the whole fam-   I 66         MYSELF. ily. Meeting Ned in the office, he overwhelmed him with a torrent of Yankee inquisitiveness. He roamed all over the United States, crossed the seas, and entered Eng- land. Ned began to manifest impatience. It mattered not; the questions came thick and fast. "Which of the English shires d'you cal'aate's the best for wool, Mr. Whitin'?" "Sheep-shears!" responded Ned. "I believe that is the general opinion.1" The wool-grower saw the point-not of the sheers, but of the pun-and understood the quiz, resenting it accord- ingly. He was greatly disgusted with the "upstart," as he termed him. "I on'y axed him a fair question; and so far's manners is consarned, he can come up in the country and larn 'em anywhere." He never troubled Ned for information again, and never met him without turning up his nose. But what did Ned care? He only laughed to think how mad he had made "Kurnel Clod, .right deown from Varmount." How impossible was it, therefore, for such a person to apply himself soberly and steadily to the study of a profes- sion that Sir William Jones has said requires the whole man, and admits of no concurrent pursuits! Ned took to politics with nearly as much zest as he did to bad jokes. He was a great admirer of Daniel Webster, and would sit hours pointing out his superiority as a states- man to either Clay, Cass, or Benton. He was loud in his expressions of discontent that Mr. Webster was not elected President in place of General Taylor. "This putting military men at the head of government over such men as Webster and Clay is a, disgrace. We haven't seen it out yet. The next heat the Democrats, judging from the success of the past, will put a Pillow, or a Cushing, or, perhaps, a Pierce, noted for his propensity to faint on a battle-field, on the course, to run down a better man. That will satisfy the country for some time to come; and the next will be a superannuated old fogy, whose chief recommendation will be that he has outlived his usefulness, and being a second time a child, will be an easy prey of designing men."   MYSELF.          t67 Prophetic Ned Whiting, though you clothed your proph- ecy in rather forcible slang! Local politics were rather beneath his interference. He seldom took part in ward caucuses, but was always ready to enact a secretary's part at Faneuil Hall. "I never had anything to do with but one ward caucus," said Ned, "and then our kitchen colonel carried every- thing! in opposition. That was rather too democratic- seeing your servant your master. We had to raise the fellow's wages to keep him from accepting the office of Alien Commissioner. I never received my boots from him afterwards but I thought that he who polished them stood ready at any moment to assist in polishing our laws and institutions. And when I see a paver at work on the streets, I think he's only paving his way to the State House, perhaps to the gubernatorial chair. Evidently, the rascals know where to place a loose cobble on which to turn the ankles of their opponents. " "Your ideas are quite different from those of old John Adams," said I, "who was of the opinion that when any of the old families stooped to humor the whims of the people, they had no trouble in carrying all their points." "That may have been true in the days of Adams, but not now, when we make governors of country storekeep- ers, who buy up partisans with justices' commissions, the same as our congressmen do with documents,-reckoning them as we reckon slaves in representation, fivepub docs equal to three votes.'.' From such conversations as these I gathered my ideas of the aristocratic tendencies of my new acquaintance, and saw that I must act circumspectly if I did not wish him to discover that I was no better than a contemned "ex- kitchen colonel" myself. I guarded my speech lest I should drop an indiscreet word disclosing the little mys- tery concerning my former life. I began to feel annoyed that I was not born quite so well as he; not that I had any admiration for him, but I disliked being thought ill of.   1 68        MYSELF. CHAPTER XVII. How I visited the Opera and was invited to a Fashionable Party. AFTER the arrangement by which I was made a student, I spent more of my time at the office. My evenings, espe- cially, were devoted to reading. Charles Anderson noticed the fact and dropped in upon me during these hours, either to engage me in conversation or invite me out. I declined his invitations when I could, but one afternoon in past midwinter, he plumply said,- "You are only killing yourself by such close application. Driving a horse too fast at the commencement of a journey only makes him the slower at the close. This hard study will be a damage to you." Ned Whiting enforced the warning. "A precious. book-worm have you become; though instead of getting as fat as a maggot you are becoming as poor as a snipe. You must attend less to Blackstone and more to Gymnasium, or Dr. Coffin will be called in to ini- tiate you into a bit of grave practice that won't be so agreeable. Anderson, we must give him a brush with the lions and elephants." "Suppose we make a trial with the Opera at the How- ard Atheneum, this evening? I invite you both." II And both accept, of course," replied Ned. "It's no use, young man," added he, to me, " go you must. You don't know the treat that's in store. Reckoning by avoirdupois, Alboni is the greatestprima donna of the age." "Very well," said I, shutting up my book, though I would gladly have shunned all public places, and tarried at my Jericho till my beard had grown a little more, " if you will persist, so be it; but if Mr. Willis complains that I idle away my hours you shall be responsible for this eveninglat least." "Never fear Mr. Willis," retorted Ned Whiting. "His will is that you use less Coke and more Diversion. All work and no play makes a dull Head."   MYSELF.         i "I believe Mr. Willis is to be at the opera himself," remarked Anderson. "So much the better," said Ned, gayly. "You'll have a peep then, probably, at Miss Mary." "Miss Willis? She has gone South to spend the re- mainder of the winter," said Anderson. Whiting looked chapfallen. "The deuce she has! It's curious I never heard of it." "She went several days ago." I saw how the information annoyed Whiting; but I kept my own counsel. Though somewhat uneasy at the thought of meeting some of the old boarders of the United States Hotel at the opera, it was quite problematical whether, with my improved appearance and a pair of half-grown whiskers, they would be able to recognize me. We found Mr. Willis at the opera before us. He saluted us cordially, and I soon saw several opera-glasses turned in our direction. "Now," thought I, "if some of those snobs to whom I have passed bread and butter are here to recognize me, they'll have food for gossip." Not a little to my surprise, I saw one of them in a box close by. He was looking hard at me. Just then I re- ceived a nudge from Whiting. "That low bow of Mr. Willis has done the thing for you. You are the observed of the observers. I suppose they are wondering if you, too, are English-bred. By George! you have got an English cut to those whiskers! A half- dozen fellows in the next box seem to know you." I looked in the direction indicated. They were those much-dreaded boarders. "Do you recognize them?" he asked. "Are they Englishmen?"' I assumed a careless tone of inquiry. There was a pitying glance in Ned's eye, as he replied, - "Englishmen? No; they are United States men!" I understood the pun, though he supposed the con- trary. "Evidently, you think we are among the pinks of aris- tocracy. You were never more mistaken. Democrats I5   170 t       -MYSELF. and aristocrats mix here in delightful confusion. Yonder is one of the proudest families in Boston. In the next box is my shoemaker." "And that beautiful woman by his side?" asked An- derson. iIs the divinity that shapes his ends,--waxed ends," said Ned. Just then the curtain rose, and our attention was called to the stage; and in his admiration of the contralto Ned forgot the mixed character of the audience and the merci- less quizzing I had been subjected to. But his words had their impression on me. The democratic shoemaker and his handsome wife opposite, sat as much at their ease as if at home in their parlor. Why not I? Under a strong effort of my will, all my uneasiness vanished, to return no more that evening. Between the acts, Mr. Willis came round to our box and chatted pleasantly with us for a moment or two. Again the quizzing glasses were leveled at us, and again I was the subject of a severe scrutiny from what Ned was facetiously disposed to term "those States men." At length one came across the box and gave me a protracted stare. I returned it with interest, and he rejoined his companions. I heard him say, very audibly,- "I tell you it's a mistake. I'll bet you abottle of wine on it." There were no takers, and so I escaped. The following day Mr. Willis referred to the visit to the opera, and said,- "I think you will find Mr. Anderson a pleasant ac- quaintance." "I am much pleased with what I have seen of him," I replied. Not a word from him about Whiting. A week or so subsequently, I received a card inviting me to a private party on Chestnut Street. It is needless to say I was astonished. There was evidently some mis- take about it. When I returned to the office, Ned Whit- ing came in. "So, then, the Favors are ,to have a party. Of course, you are invited?"   IMYSELF.         I7  "So I ascertained by a note I found on my table, this evening," said I. "It all comes of that visit to the opera. Mr. and Mrs. Favor were present, and saw Mr. Willis visit our box and chat with us, and they are anxious to find you out. You'll go to gratify them?" "Why so? On the contrary, I thought I should de- cline going." "Oh, you are too modest by half. Because you are un- acquainted with the city you mustn't refuse to be intro- duced. Besides, the more you play the bear, the more they will bait you." "Yes; but I might as well be considered a bear as a lion-when I am really neither. I am a stranger as yet, and should not be considered current coin simply because Mr. Willis recognized me as equally good with a lot of an indifferent character." I looked at him rather mali- ciously. "Well, it was a promiscuous lot of coin, I confess, in which brass rather predominated. But a bow from Mr. Willis is a sufficient passport for you anywhere,--that is, in Boston. It was a public recognition, and was intended as such. " "Grant it; yet why should I go? I know nobody, and nobody knows me." "Don't lay that flattering unction to your soul. An- derson and myself will be there, and sister Bell. You'll be acquainted with her in five minutes after an introduc- tion." I turned the matter off as soon as I could. The cool- ness with which this personage talked of introducing his sister to an " ex-kitchen colonel" quite appalled me. It was advancing at altogether too rapid a speed. I was getting beyond my sphere. If I did not refuse this rapid advance, and choose a moderate gait, I should be sub- jected to some mortifying check,--a collision that would leave me in a worse condition than I was at the start. How pleasant it would be to meet face to face at this party one of those persons to whom I had lately passed vermi- celli soup and roast chicken I It is no fault of mine that I did not know those fellows   l 7z2       MYSELF. never found their way into the drawing-rooms of Chestnut Street. Had I known it, I should only have argued that where they were denied entrance, certainly I could not be admitted. There was yet another consideration. Mr. Willis would not sanction the propriety of my venturing at once into such company, no matter how deceptive my personal appearance. Bleach out half the truckmen in Boston, put them for two years to the school in which I had been placed, where civility and politeness were rigidly enforced, and they had appeared as well as I. If I should attend, when my true character should be discovered,- and discovered it certainly would be,-the scandal would be immense; and who of all others would be blamed but Mr. Willis? So I was quite decided not to go. Indeed, I never en- tertained the idea; and the continued importunities of Ned, and mild persuasions of Anderson for me to recon- sider my determination, were annoying in the extreme. It was quite odd that I began to find my situation, con-! cerning which I had formed such bright and pleasing anticipations, and which had hitherto been so pleasant, becoming a source of embarrassment and discomfort. A miserable feeling of false shame concerning my birth and education made a fool of me. I was haunted with a feel- ing that I should be disgraced if Ned Whiting knew the truth concerning me; that I should be cut dead by him. I regretted ever having made his acquaintance. Still Ned's importunities continued. I should go,--he was determined on it. He even went so far as to speak of it before Mr. Willis, who disposed of the matter in his presence with the remark that he supposed I was quite competent to decide my owni matters for myself. After Ned retired, Mr. Willis asked,-- "Why are you not going to the party?" "There is an evident mistake, sir. If they knew how lately I was a waiter in the United States Hotel, do you think they would wish me to accept?" "You are rather squeamish," he replied. Do you advise me to accept?" "Why not? The invitation was none of your procure- ment. Your objections to accepting are the mere coin-   MYSELF.         I73 ings of your own imagination. You have no evidence that they exist elsewhere." "But it is so strange, sir. I was a servant six months ago. Now I am the recipient of invitations to fashion- able parties. I cannot help persisting in the belief that there is a mistake." "That's none of your fault," said he. "True; but then-----" "Why need you sink your own manhood?" C I do not intend to." "It is little else than that, though, when you voluntarily class yourself beneath other men. Suppose you were a waiter six months ago, were you not honorably earning your bread? I dare say if you were called upon to speak or write in defense of the dignity of labor, you would do so honestly and cheerfully. A very poor practical defense do you make of. it, when you acknowledge that you should decline mixing with other people simply because, six months ago, you honestly earned your bread by waiting on table, while they earned theirs by waiting on customers of another stamp." "I think you state the case strongly, Mr. Willis," I returned. "I admit the thing looks fair on the face of it; 'but there is a grand difference between them and me. They. are in every way competent to grace such company. They have been born and bred in it; while the best society I ever saw was a country debating club, or an apple bee. They didn't know me when they invited me; and I do not believe you employed me to impose on them." Mr. Willis regarded me with half a smile. "Pshaw, young man! you have curious ideas of human nature." "' Nevertheless I am correct." "Suppose we grant it. How will you mend the mis- take?" "By not taking advantage of it." "And you should take advantage of it, just to prevent its taking advantage of you. In nine cases out of ten, where a person respects himself, he will be respected by others, no matter what his employment. You have no trouble in sitting here and conversing with me. You are perfectly at your ease, and, I must say, you reason with a S5   174         MYSELF. good deal of force. Your friend, Ned Whiting, who will make more noise than a dozen other people at that party, finds you such a pleasant acquaintance that he spends hours here with you daily. Now, if a man debases him- self in his own opinion, he'll soon find himself debased in the opinion of others. It will not make a straw's dif- ference with me whether you accept this invitation or not. What do I care? But, to be frank with you, you owe it to me. You are a student at my office, and these people saw me conversing with you at the opera the other evening, when you were foolish enough to allow those boarders at your old hotel to annoy you." "Well, sir," said I, quite subdued, "I submit myself to your advice."' '( Go to the party, then. If you are not known, and do not wish to be known, don't decline the invitation. They will be sure to inquire you out in that case, and, instead of attributing your absence to your modesty, they will put it down as my procurement, and all further invitations will be suspended. You will henceforth be allowed the full enjoyment of that neglect which you have courted. These parties will afford you little advantage, save as they may add to your stock of knowledge of human nature,- very necessary to the profession you are choosing." So I went to the party, but not without many misgiv- ings as to the result. I went as a lad goes for the first time to a dentist's to have an ugly tooth extracted, not know- ing distinctly what was to follow, but sure of something disagreeable. I managed to have Mr. Anderson accom- pany me as cicerone.   MYSELF.          15 CHAPTER XVIII. How I attended the Party, how I felt, and what I saw, and said, and did there. WE met Mr. Willis at the party, and he proposed pre- senting me in a more formal manner to the host and hostess. "A modest student of mine," said he to Mrs. Favor. "He came near cutting you, from sheer bashfulness." We should have been greatly offended had he done so," she replied, bowing and smiling. "But then I be- lieve modesty is a characteristic of students, is it not, Mr. Willis?" "Hm! Occasionally." "Well, we'll endeavor to put Mr. Head at his ease this evening. We are a plain people, and I think he will have little trouble with us." I bowed and stammered something in reply, feeling troubled about the disposal of my hands, and at the first opportunity slipped off with Anderson, whose composure was the subject of my intense envy. I was in a woeful state of mind. My position was that of absolute torture. Every moment I was in expectation of hearing the remark, "There's that waiter from the States. Did any one ever see such assurance!" Well did Ned Whiting say that Mr. Willis was odd. His oddity might be a pleasure to him, as it was a pleasure to the boys to stone the frogs; but like the frogs, I couldn't see anything to be pleased with. I began to wish myself back to the "States," arrayed in white jacket and handling the teatray. If Mr. Willis intended making a gentleman of me, surely he should not send me, like King Richard, into the world "scarce half made up." Yet as I contemplated my personal appearance, I took some courage. Certainly I was not an ill-looking fellow. Nature had formed me in a solid and not ungraceful mould. Ill-formed I was not. Neither was I what might be called   176         MYSELF. handsome. Yet the aid of a fashionable hairdresser and Court Street tailor had combined in furnishing the exterior of quite a modish individual. There was only a plentiful lacking of brass that prevented me from appearing as courtly as any present. As these ideas ran rapidly through my mind, I began to feel ashamed of my timidity; more especially as nearly every one present was an entire stranger to me, and not a solitary individual from the much-dreaded hotel was to be seen. "I do not look like a clown," thought I; " why, then, should I act like one? I'm fairly in for it, and I'll make the most and the best of it." Presently Ned Whiting came elbowing his way toward US. "So, then, young man, you reconsidered your deter- mination? I thought you would. We'll show you a little of Boston beauty to-night." "Thank you," I replied. "The beautiful is worth studying at all times and places. "Nowhere better than in the drawing-room and by way of affording you the opportunity, allow me to present you to my sister Bell." Whew! what a shower-bath to my spirits! Whether understanding my feelings or not, A iderson came to my relief. "You should not hurry him too much, Mr. Whiting. He has scarcely had time to look about him yet." "So much the more necessary the introduction. One sprightly girl is worth a dozen male companions to post him up on the company. You will find Bell as sprightly as you can wish. And for what I can see to the contrary, she's the belle of this party." My spirits were at zero, and all my courage at my fingers' ends. An introduction to a plain, unpretend- ing girl was formidable enough; but to a Boston belle, --oh, horrors! Who in the name of all the lions did they think me? Or was I the victim of some unfeeling hoax?"I can't-can't endure this!"I mentally ejacu- lated. So I endeavored to excuse myself to Whiting, awkwardly enough--even acting the coward, and pleading   MYSELF.          i 7 7 modesty, verdancy; all the while blushing like a school- boy. "Oh, nonsense!" cried Ned. "I tell you she's the cleverest creature in the world, and will put you at ease at once. If I didn't know better, I should think you had been brought up on a New Hampshire farm, and like Colin in the play, never saw a girl. Come along!" It was useless to resist. He dragged me away, while his words about my training stung my pride to the quick. Whether he knew my secret or not, he certainly should have no occasion for again using the remark. Bell Whiting was really a fine-looking girl. There was nothing remarkable about her figure; but she had fine eyes, a pretty mouth, and clear complexion; and what was more than all the rest, I thought she was remarkably easy and natural in her manner. I was grateful for that, as I had resolved, come what would, to play my own simple --and how simple I dared not contemplate--humble self. She received me very graciously, saying,- "I have heard brother Ned speak of you, often." "But brother Ned never told you what a modest, re- tiring, reserved youth he is. You must see that the poor fellow is not neglected while he is under your care," said Ned. "I'll endeavor to do what I can to entertain him, cer- tainly," she replied, smiling and bowing. "It will be a favor which I cannot be too grateful for," said I; " though I can but thank your brother for the most excellent character he has given me. I wish I were half as modest and retiring as he would have you believe. He must labor under a delusion if he believes what he says, as those who best know me say I am a great talker." Ned opened wide his eyes. "Oho! that's your game, is it? Well, if you will beat Bell talking you will do what I never saw yet." Ned turned off, evidently with the determination of fastening his sister upon me; and I found that she was nothing loath, for she asked,- "Shall we sit, or do you prefer sauntering through the rooms?" "The latter, if you please," said I; and I almost trembled   l 78        MYSELF. as I felt the touch of her hand on my arm. As we passed out of the room, I bit my lips in sheer vexation, scarce knowing how to maintain the agreeable to my partner, and half mortified at Ned's account of my verdancy, which I was disposed to take as an innocent joke, yet fearful he meant quite as much as he conveyed. Having claimed the character of a talker, it was neces- sary to maintain it. What should I say? No matter; any- thing could not be worse than silence. "Your brother, Miss Whiting, is disposed to give me more credit for modesty than I deserve. H---" Pooh! I had said that before. "Oh, everybody knows Ned," she quickly replied, much to my relief. ' With him, all are retiring who are not as wild and boisterous as himself. He delights in nothing as in these crowded levees." "They are very pleasant, certainly," said I. It was a lie, for the party was horribly unpleasant to me. !"Do you think so? I think they are too crowded, always, for comfort. I'm really getting quite indifferent about them." "That is odd, is it not? I thought young ladies- belles especially"-and I bowed with tolerable grace as I uttered the intended compliment-"always delighted in such occasions." "It may be so; but you know I'm no belle, except in name. I used to be very fond of them, I confess; but that was before I became acquainted with Miss Willis, and knew of few other methods of passing my time. Now, I have a thousand pleasant things to occupy my attention. I miss Miss Willis very much this winter. You are ac- quainted with her, are you not? "On the contrary, I ami a stranger, not only to her, but to nearly all the people in Boston." "Ah, I forgot! Ned told me you had just graduated." Indeed," thought I; " then he has told you some- thing that I am ignorant of." Then- I said aloud, "This Miss Willis must be a very interesting personage, if all that I hear of her is true." "I think I never saw her superior. She was the first-   MYSELF.          I 79 and I humbly beg my own dear mamma's pardon for say- ing it-who taught me the real enjoyments of life,-not to be found in fashionable follies and meaningless flirtations, but in employments that make life real, and in amuse- ments that give health and tone to one's body and mind. Oh, it is so crowded here! There's a quiet corner. Shall we be seated?" I nodded an assent, and she continued: "I've thrown sentimentalism away now, so that if you find me a very plain, homely, silly girl, you will have to blame Miss Willis for it." "Rather will I thank her for it; or, at least, your own condescension in being plain and homely, especially while in the company of one who is unable to be anything else. " "I am glad to find, then, that I am likely to please you. I think, with such an understanding, we can be ex- cellent friends." And excellent friends we became; that is to say, for that evening. A fortunate thing for me was Miss Willis's tutorship; for I thought Bell Whiting was quite a sensi- ble, understandable (pardon the word) sort of a person. Doubtless she was as near sensible as I was to appreciate the term. For awhile we conversed about the assembled company, observing and remarking on the different per- sonages who passed our retreat. "Do you know," she asked, suddenly, " that there is a great deal in our Yankee character that needs rooting out?" "Doubtless there is always dross with the gold. Win- now the wheat as we will, chaff and dirt still remain. Human nature is sadly imperfect, view it under whatever circumstances we may." What a straining for effect in that speech!-though, hap- pily, she did not notice it. "I grant all that," she said ; but it seems as though we Yankees are a little worse than we need be. We are such a high-pressure people, doing everything in a hurry. See; even this crowd is such that all are uncomfortable. So we endeavor to compress everything into the smallest space, and hurry through life as though anxious for nothing but to end it."   I 80o        MYSELF. "Or, perhaps," said I, correcting her, "because it appears too brief for the accomplishment of all that we have to perform." "It may be so; but why should we be anxious to per- form more than we can do well? Why fret away our lives in the vain effort to hoard up money only to bequeath it to others to quarrel about? Our people of fortune spend their leisure time in meaningless, aimless pursuits,-in winter, hurrying from one frivolity to another; in sum- mer, seeking pleasure in tours that have no other aim than fashionable dissipation and extravagance. Our people who have no fortunes, wear out their best energies in accumu- lating them for their children to spend. Others less zeal- ous, make themselves the living reality of a lie, keeping up appearances,--ifalse in public and paying for it at home, -that home which should be sacred to peace, quiet, truth, love, and happiness." "This is to be deplored, if it exists, most certainly," said I, taken quite aback by her eloquence; "though, being a stranger, you must excuse me for pleading my ignorance of it. I thought Boston---'" "It is not Boston alone," she interrupted, " it is uni- versal to the country." I bowed in acceptance of the qualification, but added,- "I think you will agree with me, Miss Whiting, that it is a laudable ambition which leads men to display their most pleasing attributes, hiding their imperfections and vices, and exhibiting their virtues and graces. A wrong education may lead to a wrong judgment as to what is most worthy of exhibition, a wrongly-formed taste to de- light in that which is unworthy of consideration. A pas- sion for splendor and display has affected humanity in all countries and during all ages. The high and the low, the rich and the poor, have all been anxious to put forth their best side." "That is true, sir; and none so delight in gaudy show as the savage, with his feathers and beads. But why should we emulate the savage,-taking silks and satins for his feathers, and jewelry for his beads? A well-educated so- ciety seeks the adornment of the mind equally with, or more than, that of the body. And this is just why I am   MYSELF.          i8i displeased with our Yankees. We would be refined with- out knowing how. If we would only combine healthful exercises with our amusements, it would redeem some- thing. Our people of fortune are retrograding rather than improving. Miss Willis, who was educated in Eng- gland, which I consider vastly superior in this respect to New England, is a model for us Yankee girls. She is so robust and healthy, and withi such cheerfulness and elas- ticity of temperament,-all owing to her superior physical education." So, then, the secret was out. Miss Willis's "English education" had put this Boston girl out of conceit with the Yankee. Distance had lent enchantment to her view. She disparaged her own people because of their near- ness. How apt all mankind are to hold those things lightly they are possessed of, and magnify the value of those be- yond their reach! The fine Alpine scenery is common- place to the Swiss peasant who contemplates it daily; while he would dwell on the view of our broad Western prairies with silent wonder and awe. It was a fortunate discovery, when I found the secret of Miss Whiting's antipathy to Yankee customs. I was in possession of one of her foibles. Certainly, I would not blunder in regard to that hereafter. I was quite silent with my own thoughts, when she naively asked,- "Is not a quiet residence in a suburban village in sum- mer preferable to a crowded season at Newport or Sara- toga; or a select circle in winter to a crowded levee like this?" How should I know? Yet I bowed and replied,-- "Undoubtedly, if one be educated to enjoy them." "That's it, exactly. And why are they not so educated?" Ay, why not? I could not answer it then, but I can now. People whose early associations are amid the rugged hills and valleys of New England--who sought the city, and there amassed wealth, have little disposition to culti- vate those rural pleasures they'forsook in youth. And of such is a large portion of the wealthy, of not only Boston, but of other Northern cities. To this city-bred girl, whose father owned not a rood of land uncovered with brick and mortar, all this was an enigma. She could only exclaim,- i6   I82         MYSELF. "I so delight to visit Miss Willis in summer at her lovely place in Brookline, where she busies herself, while others are flitting like butterflies among the watering- places, with her conservatory, her aviary, and her books. It is a world almost of her own making, full of delights and comforts unknown to others who spend their time in idle flirtations that end only in the heartache or disgust. Happiness is embraced in the word contentment, and she seems so contented and so happy that I envy none but her. " Miss Bell Whiting might have been twenty-one or twenty- two years of age. With my own limited knowledge of human nature, I could see that she had a glimmering of an undefined something, more noble and worthy her pur- suit than that followed by the generality of her compan- ions. But I saw how she groped in the dark. I felt assured that she was unable to see that I was in the same pre- dicament, and that I was safe unless I called her attention to the fact. In conversing with her, if I could not enlighten it would only be necessary to mystify. And so I said,- "' Human life is an enigma that man scarcely solves be- fore he quits it  It opens before us as a road that we travel. We gain, here and there, a tolerable view; but generally it has a narrow boundary, shut out by hills and forests which we have to pass before we see beyond. And even when we get beyond, we only find a succession of the same hills and forests to still restrict our vision. The horizon shuts down close beside us, and recedes only as we advance. So with our capabilities to enjoy life-ex- panding only with the means that are afforded us. The savage knows no other enjoyment than the sports of the forest, nor sighs for books, nor learning. He seeks not to unravel the mysteries of his being, nor to penetrate the laws of Nature. He troubles not himself with the arts and sciences. It would be foolish to expect us, who have received a higher education, who have tasted more real delights, to content ourselves as the savage does; and yet there may be a still higher education than ours. We may go on and on,--improved and improving,-all the while feeling that what we leave behind is joyless and insipid. And still with all our improvements, there is yet a higher level and more complete joy to be reached."   MYSELF.          I83 Miss Bell Whiting listened to me with such attention, and my words seemed to call forth such undisguised ad- miration, that I began to think I had said something sen- sible, though I suspect it was only a rehash of what I had obtained from Mr. Willis's library. As she did not re- ply, but sat as if expecting something more of the same character, I mustered courage to go on. "Man is a progressive animal," said I; " but too often he progresses like a crab--forward or backward with equal celerity. He rarely remnains stationary. He either im- proves physically and mentally or he deteriorates." "I often think of that, " she returned. "I often think, too, that we as a people are deteriorating, when we ought to improve. Why do we not all seek to cultivate a higher taste in literature and arts, in simple and natural delights, rural pursuits, and ennobling exercises and amusements?" c' I do not know; unless it be that one cannot cultivate what he has not and knows nothing about. You know the homely direction of Mrs. Glass as to cooking the rabbit?" "Oh, bless you, no. I know nothing that relates to the kitchen," said she. I could not help smiling at the ready repudiation of so useful an accomplishment. But I went on to make the quotation. C It says, ' First catch your rabbit.' So with this cultivation of taste. First get the taste." "Oh, yes; I see now. I suppose we haven't got this taste; but we ought to have it. It affords pleasures vastly more rational than our present ones. Why do not men study out improvements in enjoyment as they do in the arts?" "Because improvements in the arts bring enjoyment to those who study them out; while those who have nothing to do but study improved methods of passing their time, in nine cases out of ten only study to kill it. The secret of all worldly happiness is activity. We hold that most in estimation which costs us the most; and that food relishes the best that is the hardest obtained. If man were set down in the garden of Eden, with nothing to do, he would soon tire of it; but if h6 could have the privi- lege of making a little Eden of his own, I think it would   184        MYSELF. afford him a fair share of interest and amusement. Per- haps you may not agree with me; but this party to-night is a part of Mrs. Favor's Eden. Your Eden may be a different thing entirely; and mine, still differing from either.'" ' Sermonieing, as .I live!" exclaimed Ned Whiting, who, unperceived by us, had advanced to within listening distance. "By George, that's a good joke!" "What's a good' joke?" asked his sister. "I am sure, Ned, we have had a very interesting conversation." "Oh, yes; but then, you know," said he, addressing me; "I told Bell you were a philosopher; and she's been posing you!"  I blushed scarlet, and felt like resenting it; "But come, come,-no matter about that now," he continued.!"It was some of my nonsense; and I dare say you have philosophy enough to entertain a dozen sim- pletons like her. I sometimes think I have. But throw philosophy, with physic, to the dogs. What I am par- ticularly after now, is your company for a dance. We have formed sets in the drawing-room for a cotillon." "Do you dance?" asked Miss Whiting of me. "Indifferently." "Indifferently!" echoed Ned. "With the grace of a Talma! I've seen him. So come,--we are waiting for you." And he led the way to the floor. I danced once or twice, changing partners with Ander- son and Ned Whiting, and getting more at ease with my- self and those about me. After all," said I to myself, I this genteel society is still human. None are great on a near view. Men are men, and women are women still. And I see, too, that the better cultivated are the more simple, and natural, and homelike." I saw but little of Mr. Willis during the evening. I observed him once, among the whist-players, and after that he came to me and asked me how I enjoyed the even- ing, and soon after retired. I remained to the last. Ned was determined that I should stop and see the company off, saying that I came to the party, the whole party, and nothing but the party.   MYSELF.          I 85 "Now, I'm done!" said I, emphatically, on gaining my lodgings. "I'll submit to no more of this to gratify even Mr. Willis." I acquainted him of this determination the following day, when he spoke to me about the party. "Just as you think proper," he said; "they are not entertainments to be sought to the neglect of others. But do not be afraid to go." Before the season was over, however, I found it con- venient to reconsider my determination, and attend no less than a half-dozen parties. They were but a reproduction of the first, with nearly the same company, and about the same routine. CHAPTER XIX. Relates to Gossip about Female Education, our Early American States- men, and their Works. THE following spring Miss Willis returned from the South, only to accompany, shortly after, a Boston family on a tour to Europe. I saw her but once, and then im- perfectly, as she sat with her features only partially re- vealed, in her father's carriage by the sidewalk. I judged her to be about the age of Bell Whiting,--twenty-one or twenty-two. My acquaintance with Charles Anderson ripened into a mutual attachment. He was a person of excellent habits, kind, and social; yet I could not conceal the fact from myself that he was commonplace and earthy,-open to that charge brought against our people by Emerson, that we reckon everything by dollars, praise ourselves and our times, and point to the evidence of our prosperity, and never ask how much we are benefiting humanity. He had no higher ambition than to be wealthy. In his estima- tion, wealth would compensate for all else that might be lacking, such as intelligence, taste, and an appreciation I6*   I 86         MYSEL F. of the pure and lofty in literature and art. He would occupy a high position in society, if he could not adorn it. He never thought of the latter. It was only neces- sary to purchase position with money. All else was nothing. Our conversation often turned on Mr. Willis. On one occasion I acquainted him with the singular manner of my entering Mr. Willis's office; and the strange predilec- tion he seemed to entertain for me. Anderson agreed that it was very odd, but then his own experience with Mr. Willis was nearly similar. "My father," said he, "was a tenant on one of his farms. I was a clerk in a country store. I happened -to see him on one of his visits to the farm, and conceived the idea of applying to him for a situation in Boston. To that end, I wrote him a letter after his return, never ex- pecting to hear from it again. What was my surprise when I received an answer summoning me to the city. I obeyed promptly, for I knew what promptness had to do in recommending me to favor, and he placed me in a counting-room on India Wharf. His kindness didn't stop there. I am indebted to him for the place I now hold, where I am promised, if I like, another year, an interest in the concern. He has also been the means of introducing me to several valuable associations. He has invited me to his house, and I have dined with him and his daughter several times, both in the city and at their country-seat in Brookline."           ' '"You .are acquainted with Miss Willis, then?"I asked. "Slightly. She is very like her father; a young lady, too, of many attainments, quite accomplished, and en- tirely devoid of that sense of position so usual to one of her class." I related the description that Ned Whiting-had given of her. Anderson smiled. "Her education is, evidently, English, though her lineaments, and for that matter, her principles, thoroughly American. This English education has led to comments from many besides Whiting. It has had a marked influ- ence on numbers of families; but they have only so far imitated her instructors that they have made their daugh-   MYSELF.          I87 ters excessive romps. The English and American systems of training and educating young females, you know, are as opposite as the antipodes. We all know how the Yan- kee girl is bred; that is, she that is called well-bred. Physical exercise is thought of to be avoided. She must not walk, if by any possibility she can ride, except, in- deed, the day is very fine, and the distance short. Such occasions generally concern shopping, which she never tires of, especially if her father is rich, and affords her plenty of money. Aside from walking, her piano affords her the most violent exercise. She learns painting, draw- ing, and fancy needle-work. She dances immoderately, and at all hours,-oftener at hours, though, when it does her more injury than good. There is nothing in the edu- cation of the American girl which tends to develop and invigorate the physical system * but the English girl spends more than half her waking hours in physical amusements. Her sense of refinement doesn't lead her to shun that which is rough. She rides, walks, drives, runs, dances, sings, plays, skips the rope, throws a ball, rows on the water, shoots, practices archery; and she does it all with- out once having it pressed on her attention that she is un- ladylike or wasting her time. And furthermore, she does it every day, till it becomes a habit, which she follows up through life. As a natural consequence, the English girl is larger framed, and her muscular system better'devel- oped. Her nervous system is kept in better subordina- tion. She is capable of greater endurance, and the whole tone of her mind is much the healthier." While listening to this recital, it occurred to me that I had seen the same ideas advanced by some one else; and subsequently Ned claimed them as his own, though without knowing what use Anderson had made of them. Where he obtained them I cannot say. I might have been quite as intimate with Whiting as with Anderson, had it not been for the difference in our positions. I treated him with great civility, but met his advances with a reserve that kept him beyond a certain point. Perhaps he liked me the better for it. "Too much familiarity breeds disgust." But Ned was the same kind, cordial, careless acquaintance, and I often found   188         MYSELF. myself regretting that I could not open my heart to him as he did to me. He was never out of humor, never at a loss for a jest or a pun, and never with a serious or am- bitious project in his mind. Sometimes he would come into the office and find me busy with the pages of a legal work, and would volunteer his ideas of Blackstone, Coke, Littleton, Kent, Story, and others, interspersing his remarks with novelties and oddities sufficient to provoke a smile from the most judge- like countenance. "How Jefferson hated Blackstone! He accused him and Hume of making Tories of all England, and declared they had done more for the suppression of the liberties of mankind than Bonaparte and all his armies. Did you ever read Jefferson?" "No more than his biography," I replied. "I have. I heard Miss Willis quote Jefferson once. She had read all his works,--correspondence, opinions, and all. By George, I was fool enough to follow her ex- ample! However, the money I threw away on Jefferson's works was no worse spent, probably, than if they hadn't been added to my collection." "How did you like them?" "Oh, I waded through them just as a traveler wades a river when there's no bridge. I went in with a shiver, and came out wet, heavy, and-thankful; thankful, I sup- pose, that I had got through. I retained just about as much of Jefferson as the traveler is supposed to retain of the water; though perhaps I was not so willing to part with it. Jefferson is well enough. The fault lies in get- ting at him,-wading through ten volumes to ascertain if he had ten ideas, and did not desert and re-embrace them ten times before he died. If there were somebody to cull out the best ideas of Jefferson, say enough to fill a single volume, or two volumes, how much it would be to the ad- vantage of the great public, particularly the lazy ones, like myself! Jefferson would be known then. He isn't now. The mass of our people no more think of reading the works of Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Adams, and the Ilke, in extense, than they do of undertaking the pilgrimage to the Holy Land, or of exploring Central   MYSELE.          89 Africa in a balloon. I dare say you would be fond of them." "I like anything which acquaints me with the history of my country." "Exactly. Everybody would like to see Niagara; but everybody won't go there on foot to see it. If such a man as Irving would take hold of Jefferson, Adams, and Frank- lin, how they would be sought after! If I have to seek Franklin in the same way that I did Jefferson, I am afraid the old fellow won't have the honor of my acquaintance for some time to come." Mr. Willis came into the office in time to hear Ned's last remark; and, when Ned was gone, he said,- "The iniquity of being able to live without labor! He reads only what pleases him, or what his intended profes- sion really obliges him to. Copy Franklin in your read- ing, Mr. Head. The time which he spent in books was devoted not to seeking amusement, but in acquiring solid and substantial knowledge." I thought that some of Ned's remarks, which Mr. Wil- lis did not hear, were very just. I repeated them. "There is good sense in the idea," remarked Mr. Wil- lis. "The masses do need a collater of the ideas of our early great men,-indeed, all of them. Their ideas on the leading topics connected with the history and politics of our country are sadly obscured. Few correctly know Jefferson; fewer Adams, Jay, Hamilton, and Madison. Jefferson has more credit than he deserves. Madison, who sustained him, much less. The latter's report of the De- bates in the convention which formed our Federal Con- stitution, instead of being locked up and left to moulder in our libraries, should be introduced as a reading exer- cise in every school in the land. Children would then grow up with a much better knowledge of the fundamental law of our country. It was a great precept with Plato that the citizens of his Republic should learn the laws ac- curately; and Josephus claims that in inculcating this, Plato only imitated the Hebrew legislators." The conversation which was thus accidentally brought about, made on me a deep impression. The practice of Franklin in selecting his authors so that he might be in-   Igo         MYSEILF. structed, not simply amused, was new, and impressed me so favorably that I resolved to make it my guide. The remarks concerning Jefferson, Franklin, and particularly Madison's Debates, led me early to seek and read them, which I did, whenever I laid down my law-books. I found the change, like a change of diet, agreeable and wholesome. CHAPTER XX. Relates to the Political Excitement in I850, and how I got on with my Legal Studies. THE year then ensuing was one of much political excite- ment. Congress and the country were agitated about the Fugitive Slave Bill, the admittance of California into the Union, and the abolition of the slave-trade in the District of Columbia,--those measures which fornmed what are called the compromises of I850. Mr. Webster, the idol of New England, a man who had nearly as many worshipers in Boston as the Juggernaut in Hindostan, had made his great Seventh of March speech. That speech had carried sad- ness to thousands of hearts at the North. Life-long friends and admirers who had been accustomed to look upon him as the great bulwark of Northern interests and institutions, the champion of free labor and free men, were shocked and staggered as he sank at the feet of the Deliah of the South, shorn of his strength. Freedom reeled like a drunken man; but Commerce, that insatiable self-interest seeker, at once prepared to rally in defense of Mr. Webster. None were more grieved at the course of Mr. Webster than Mr. Willis. But he endeavored to smother that grief, and few besides myself were witnesses of it. No- body had ever accused Mr. Willis of fanaticism. He had been looked on by some as even anti-republican. But in this he was wronged. I know not how such a supposition was originated, save that he had passed many of his years among the aristocratic and monarchical ihstitutions of the   MYSELF.          191 old world. Sometimes he gave vent to his indignation at Mr. Webster in my presence. "I am ashamed of my country, when I see the greed of office triumphing over principle." (It was said that Mr. Webster was bidding for the Presidency.) "Surely the eyes of Mr. Webster can penetrate the future. He provokes a crisis that will be settled with little less than blood. And then his fame. He has only built himself a monument the higher toward heaven that by this last act he might stride its summit and topple himself the fur- ther over into perdition." This was strong language, and displayed well the strong feelings with which Mr. Willis and many others were agitated. Mr. Willis had no property on the water; no vessels trading at Southern ports. He had, however, large sums invested in manufacturing stocks. "Commerce," said he, "will rally about Mr. Webster, and so will manufactures. Both will be made subject to contributions in support of his falling fortunes; but I will sink every dollar before I will contribute a mill. I'll sell my stocks," he continued, "even at a sacrifice. They will be worth as much to-day as they ever will be. If we would change the politics of the country, we must change the interests of capital. The attention of New York and Boston must be turned toward other channels. We must chain them to the locomotive and send them to traverse the great free West. The resources of that vast region must be developed. It is there that the interests of free- dom lie." There were those who contended that the Fugitive Slave Bill would not pass; .or, if it should pass, it would fail to receive the President's signature. Mr. Willis dis- sented. "Webster's influence could have killed it. Now it will pass, and to veto it will be for President Taylor to run directly counter to the great non-veto principle of the Whigs. " Its doubtful constitutionality was urged as one reason why Taylor would depart from the non-veto principle in this case. "What does Taylor know of the Constitution, that he   192         MYSELF. will run counter to Webster?" asked Mr. Willis. "The bill will become a law, unconstitutional or otherwise." The prophecy was fulfilled; but in a manner wholly different from the anticipations of the country. President Taylor died on the ninth of July, and was succeeded in office by Vice-President Fillmore. The old Cabinet re- tired, and Mr. Webster left his seat in the Senate for the post of Secretary of State. President Fillmore,1 advised by Mr. Webster, signed the Fugitive Slave Bill. True to his determination, Mr. Willis disposed of his manufacturing stocks, gradually and advantageously as possible, and dispatched a trusty agent to invest the pro- ceeds in the most promising Western enterprises. This action did not pass wholly unnoticed in Boston, and he was looked upon as one already tainted with the heresy of Free-Soilism. Mr. Webster had not taken his great step without ap- parently first counting the cost. In his own home the Atlas newspaper, which had been the leading organ of the Massachusetts Whigs, was proscribed for its lukewarmness; and the less scrupulous and less honest Boston Courier was raised to the dignity from which the other had been de- graded. Using Mr. Fillmore as cat's-paw, Mr. Webster traversed the country with him, putting forth speech after speech in justification of his and Mr. Fillmore's acts,- though particularly justifying his own. The famous Hulse- man letter was launched like a thunderbolt upon Europe, that its author, by making a feint in that direction, where popularity was sure to follow, could draw attention from his home policy and conduct. Miss Willis returned from Europe in September. A fortnight after she accompanied her father on a trip to the West, where they remained till the first of November. During the interval of her stay in Boston, or rather at their summer residence in Brookline, I -saw her once as she came to the office for her father. She was a remark- ably attractive young lady. Her features were classically beautiful and strikingly expressive. Her voice was me- lodious, and her whole manner complete with unaffected grace. Other than an appearance of complete physical health, I saw nothing to indicate that masculine character   MYSELF.         I93 with which I had been led, from the remarks of Ned Whiting, to invest her. There was something about Miss Willis that reminded me of Kate Blake. She was about Kate's age and size, though perhaps taller, with more expressive eyes, and with more of grace and ease in her motions. Not once had I written home since that single letter to my mother. Not once had I applied at the post-office for letters, and not once had I set on foot inquiries concern- ing my native village. My parents might be dead and I ignorant of it. This steady perseverance in obstinate neglect of all that I had left in the country was getting irksome. I pined under it at times, but I would not relax my purpose further than in spring and autumn to examine the registers of the hotels about Elm and Han- over Streets for the name of Mr. Hoyt, the village store- keeper, who came twice a year to replenish his stock of goods. Once, when I found his name, I lingered about the office and saw him come from the tea-table, and sat in the room with him several minutes that I might hear him converse. His voice carried me back to old times. I dared not address him lest he should recognize me, but how I longed to ask him one single question,- about my mother.! It was torture to sit there within reach of the information I coveted and not demand it, and I arose and retreated. Did I not think of Kate Blake all of this time? Cer- tainly she was not absent from my mind; but I must confess that the ardor of my love was beginning somewhat to cool. I no longer looked upon her as one whose con- dition was superior to mine. An excellent, well-informed girl was she; and she was nothing more. I was not now wholly blind to her blemishes and disadvantages. I was not, by any means, disloyal to my love. I looked upon Kate as a true, kind, and constant being, who would be- come, in good time, my wife; but she was no longer that exalted personage I had once considered her. A glow of pride warmed my heart as J thought how I should surprise her when we met; how our relative positions in life would then be changed; and how she, then, and her father, and the whole village, would look upon me with that respect 17   I94        .MYSELF. which one occupying the position in society I would then hold is supposed to command. It would no longer be the humble country-boy skulking among the trees around Mr. Blake's house, trying to obtain a glimpse at his adored. I would be the man of profession to whose presence Mr. Blake would pay deference. I felt a malicious joy in thinking how, if I chose, I could return all the contumely he had showered upon me. Such is human nature. Ambition filled my breast-not the ambition of one who would conquer at all hazards and sacrifices that which he aims at, but the ambition to conquer by constant and un- remitting application all the obstacles that lay in my path to distinction and position. My duties as a copyist some- times conflicted with my desire for study, whereat I be- came impatient; but when I reflected how well I was succeeding, and that for the relief of my physical system it was necessary that I should relax my mental efforts oc- casionally, I felt that such duties were rather a benefit than a damage, and so bid my impatience down. A year had passed since I became a student; and when I informed Ned Whiting of the extent of my legal reading, he was astonished, and declared that I had accomplished more in one year than he had in two. After Mr. Willis returned from the West, he had a long conversation with me upon the same subject. He ex- amined me very critically in my knowledge of what I had read, and when concluded, he said,- "You have advanced wonderfully, sir. I scarcely know how you have read and retained so much, and maintained your health." "Temperance and exercise," I remarked with a smile "But temperance and exercise will not always be suffi- cient, if you persist in going on at this rate. I must put more labor on you. Mr. Easthurn can furnish you with employment." Mr. Easthurn was Mr. Willis's business agent. My countenance fell at the words. I had fancied for some time Mr. Willis intended me for that place., It was not at all to my taste. He perceived my disappointment. "I have not been unkind to you, I think,".-said he, in a tone that I conceived savored somewhat of reproof. "I   MYSELF.          195 think you can sacrifice a little to me, now, especially when it is for your own benefit. You have studied too hard. No intellect can long sustain the pressure to which yours has been made subject the year past. You have read nights. " I confessed it was true. "Often, and very late." I acknowledged it. "The very opposite of wisdom, young man, and must be abandoned. I suppose you were impatient to get ahead," he continued, assuming a kinder tone. "You wished to master your profession while you had so favor- able an opportunity; but do not let that trouble you. You are welcome to my office on the present terms twenty years, if you like; only you must remit a part of your efforts." I promised him that I would do so, and the conversation ended. The next week I found him in conversation with a talented attorney of Court Square. A few days sub- sequent to that he told me that he had formed a copart- nership with a Mr. Hall. "You will now have less to do with theory, and some- thing with practice," said he. CHAPTER XXI. In which I introduce a New Character, who, I flatter myself, may prove original if not interesting. I HALT in the main thread of my narrative a moment to introduce an additional personage,-one who, though not occupying a distinguished position in it, went to make up a portion of that mankind with which I mingled. John Littlegood was the name of one whose character had been better expressed had his name been John Doo- little. By profession he was a lawyer, but his profession, as Ned Whiting said,-and scores made use of that pun   z96         MYSELF. before him,--was superior to his practice. In fact, he made no pretensions to practice. The reason why he made none might have been a source of dispute between him and almost all of his acquaintances. They doubtless would have said that it was in consequence of his shiftlessness, while he would have maintained that, as he was able to live independent of practice, he felt little inclination to dirty his hands at pettifogging. John Littlegood had an exalted idea of what consti- tuted respectability, and a holy horror of plebeianism. Manual labor to him was intensely vulgar. He looked on all professions, save a few of the choicest, with utter and hearty contempt. Yet this man had scarcely a change of clean linen,-his coat was threadbare, and almost out at the elbows; nor was he over-neat in his habits, though seldom absolutely slovenly. How Littlegood maintained himself was not certainly known to any one,-at least of my acquaintances. He always appeared to be without business, and never seemed to want; for his threadbare coat continued just so thread- bare, neither getting more shabby nor replaced by an- other. Ned Whiting was inclined to think that he con- tributed to the press; but such an idea was repelled by the tone he always used in speaking of scribblers and penny-a-liners. That he read the papers, and was fully posted in the current literature of the day, was made evi- dent any time one saw fit to tap him on the subject. Littlegood's mind was a mine of knowledge, but it re- sembled the loft of an antiquarian book-store filled with literature musty and moth-eaten from disuse. Of a mor- bid disposition, if he absorbed knowledge he absorbed as a sponge absorbs water, and sent it forth again impreg- nated with impurities of his own mind. He had a charita- ble criticism for few. Soured and cynical, the world went ill with him at all points. He never commented on an event nor criticised the acts of a public man but he had three words of condemnation to one of approval; and he invariably summed up against them. I saw him only as he visited the office to avail himself of the excellent library of Mr. Willis. The kindly treat- ment he received made it rather a favorite haunt. There   -MYSELF.          197 vere few clients to interfere with him, and he seemed. to ake a kindly interest in my progress as a student. There was at times a great amount of good sense in his conver- ;ation, and when I could listen to him with delight, and :o my instruction. Mr. Willis had given him a favorable recommendation by a casual remark that few men could boast of greater legal research, and that he sometimes found a discussion of intricate points with him to be profit- able. That those discussions had occurred I was per- sonally witness, and it was as the crossing of two keen blades. Thus kindly treated, Littlegood did not feel himself an intruder. The interest that I appeared to take in his legal disquisitions was rather flattering to him than otherwise. Every human being finds something in which he takes more than ordinary interest, and loves to teach and train, whether it be a fellow-creature or a dog or a horse. Lit- tlegood seemed to take a pleasure in imparting instruction to me, and it was due nearly as much to his lucid expla- nations as my own unaided research that I made such proficiency during my first year. The new arrangements of the office bid fair to disturb somewhat the standing of Littlegood towards it. Though he did not absolutely desert it, his visits were less frequent and more formal than before, and generally when the new partner was locked up in its inner recess or engaged in court. The announcement of the new law firm of Willis & Hall attracted considerable attention. The active busi- ness character and legal tact and acumen of the junior partner, joined with the well-known probity, high stand- ing, and profound general as well as legal knowledge of the senior, at once drew a large share of business to the office. It devolved on me to assist Mr. Hall in the preparation of cases,-copying and arranging. Mr. Willis did little else than lend his name to the firm, though in the more important cases he rendered invaluable assistance by his judicious advice. He never argued a case, and seldom appeared in court. The new arrangement was highly pleasing to me, if it 17*   198         MYSELF. was not to the legal loafer John Littlegood. I was not only getting on with the theory of the law, but I was get- ting a good deal of the practice, my knowledge being cor- rected or confirmed with almost every case. New points came up and were practically settled, and with me, who was free with memorandums, unforgotten. Some of these cases were almost entirely arranged by myself,-John Little- good assisting, -and given to Mr. Hall to conduct and plead in court. I often received commendations from that gentleman for the excellent manner in which they had been prepared to his hand. Occasionally I attended to cases in the lower court, where students are sometimes, through courtesy, allowed to practice. My compensation was unaltered. I was now more than earning it; but I felt myself still owing a debt of grati- tude to Mr. Willis, and that it would take me a long time to repay it. Anderson had been received as a partner in the house with which he had been engaged. An incident occurred in connection with it that exhibited Ned Whiting in a new light. "A   lucky fellow, that Anderson!" he exclaimed. 'Dame Fortune is making him her son and heir. At  this rate he stands a fair chance of becoming a second. Abbott Lawrence." I looked at him rather earnestly. The Lawrences be- gan life in poverty. Ned noticed the expression in my countenance, and smiled. i' I suppose you all think that secret is as safe as a penny in a miser's purse. Lucky it is pretty snug, for there'd be a precious row among his young-lady admirers if they knew it. Instead of bestowing their caps for him, they would present him with mittens enough to set a man up sinthe retail glove-trade. But, after all," he continued, kicking out his legs and drawing a long breath, as if he were about to relieve himself of weighty thoughts that had been a burden to him, II what difference does it make? It will be all the same ahundredyears- hence. When Alex- ander found Diogenes poking among the bones, you know, and asked him the object of his search, the old cynic re- plied, ' That which I cannot find,-the difference between   MYSELF.          199 your father's bones and those of his slaves.' I'm think- ing there'll be precious little difference between people's bones after death, however much or little proud flesh the owners might have possessed while in life." Ned never gave utterance to such serious philosophy before. He was giving the lie to all the suspicions that I had been made to entertain towards him. I was impressed with kindlier feelings, and frequently asked myself if he knew my secret likewise. The winter suet in, and found my time much engrossed with the business of the office. Most of my evenings were occupied there, and I found little leisure to indulge in recreation or amusements. There was considerable excitement growing out of poli- tics, particularly in regard to the workings of the Fugitive Slave Act. The Gibson case, at Philadelphia, showed that under it free men might be enslaved. The case oft Long, in New York, marked its execution with peculiar barbarism. Threats were thrown out that Boston should soon be'the theater of its operations,-threats amply ful- filled in the Shadrack and Sims cases, when even the tem- ple of justice itself was placed in chains. The contest for United States senator was another fruit- ful cause of excitement in Boston. The coalition of the Democrats and Free-Soilers, by which the State was ruled, was distasteful, indeed, to the Whig city. None was louder in his denunciation of it, none more ardent in his support of Mr. Webster, than Whiting, unless, indeed, John Littlegood be called an exception. At this time Littlegood was aroused into a little something like life. In Ned's excitement law was forgotten. His time was spent among the printing-offices, reading proofs of articles written in support of his favorite statesman, and in de- nunciation of the "unholy coalition of Long-heels and Locofocos." Midnight oil was, for the first time, con- sumed by him in the vain i effort to show that it was the moral duty of all good citizens to assist in the return of escaped fugitives. It'is true that Ned's efforts con- tained more sophistry than true reasoning, more fallacy than truth, and more sarcasm and ridicule of the "Long- heels" than either.   200         MYSELF. For facts Ned was indebted to John Littlegood; and more for illustrations drawn from the classics, about which Ned knew as little as myself. It was a matter of pride with Littlegood to lend these facts and illustrations to Ned, although he had a sneer for all that savored of news- paper scribbling.  "These illustrations," he would say, " are fresh,--they are none of your hackneyed ideas which Pope borrowed of Charran, or Cowper from Varro, and called original. There's no originality," he continued, as he found he had attracted my attention. "If you don't believe it, read as much as I have, and you will." I did not care to enter into a conversation with him on the point at that time, and so the matter was dropped. The rage for political discussion extended to private circles. Parties were not exempt. Squads gathered in the drawing-rooms to discuss constitutional obligations and moral duties, to the neglect of the gayeties of the parlors or even the rich invitings of the supper-table. Of one inlparticular I may speak, which will serve as a sam- ple of many. It was given by a gentleman distinguished for his patronage of art and literature. "It will be a fine affair," said Ned Whiting, as the cards were sent out. ' You'll find a whole menagerie of lions in that collection." "And asses in the skins of lions!" sneered John Lit- tlegood,-looking up from a musty tome that had engaged his attention for at least an hour. "Just what I was going to add," said Ned, good- humoredly, though he seldom took such sharp cuts kindly. "But we shall have plenty of originals to overshadow "Originals!" sneered Littlegood. He shut up the book and turned toward us. "I suppose both of you are young and credulous enough to believe there is such a thing as originality in this world, and not only in the world, but in Boston?" "Not if we believe Solomon" said Ned, '(who de- clares there's nothing new under the sun." 'There's your originality, --quoting Solomon; and there's no more originality in other men than in you   lVl YZJl JP.          201 If they don't quote Solomon, they quote somebody else." "If they give credit," I suggested. "' But they don't give credit. They steal the thoughts of other men and palm them off as their own. But, then,"'-Littlegood was charitable at times,-.-"Longfel- low's no worse than his predecessors,--than Byron, Pope, Dryden, Butler, Ben Jonson, and Shakspeare. They all cribbed. Take Grey's Elegy,-it's made up of stolen ideas: "' Full many a gem of purest ray serene The dark, unfathomed caves of ocean bear; Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the-desert air.' cf In his ' Rape of the Lock,' Pope has the same idea: "'These kept my charms concealed from mortal eye, Like roses that in deserts bloom and die.' Young says about the same thing of Nature: "'In distant wilds by human eye unseen, She rears her flowers and spreads her velvet green. Pure gurgling rills the lonely desert trace, And waste their music on a desert race.' "And Shenstone says, too: "'And like the desert's lily, bloom to fade.' ", So you see all of them stole the same idea, and, dress- ing it up, claimed its paternity. In his ' Bard,' Gray bor- rowed from Milton. He speaks of the beard of his hero, which "I' Streamed like a meteor to the troubled air.' "In ' Paradise Lost,' Milton describes Azazel sublimely unfurling "' The imperial ensign, which full high advanced, Shone like a meteor streaming to the wind.' "No doubt Milton cribbed the idea from    somebody else."   202         MYSELF. (CAs you have the whole of yours, from D'Israeli," said I. "A hit! a hit! a palpable hit! -that's from Shak- speare, if you please," cried Ned. "Paid off in your own coin!"And as Ned danced over the floor, he slapped Littlegood over the shoulder. The blood rushed to the latter's face. He could not resent my remark, but he could the familiarity of Whiting. "Is that the way gentlemen are reared?" he asked, brushing his coat, as if the contact of Ned's hand had soiled it. "Why not, old boy?" asked Ned, comically. "Because it's the conduct of a clown. I profess to be a gentleman, arid such conduct is not tolerated among my class, sir." "Gentleman!"  I saw the flash of Ned's eye. The shaft had struck home. He was about to retort, but he checked the parted lips, and turned on his heel. Good humor had fled. I attempted to mediate, but it was of no effect. Littlegood went awaypangry. "So much for my infernal tongue," cried Ned, after he was gone, with a droll expression of half vexation playing over his face. ' "I'll get no more of his choice metaphors and similes for my essays hereafter. When he claimed to be a gentleman, I was on the point of adding ' gone to seed'-but I checked it. He would never have forgiven that; for he is the seediest just now that I ever knew him, and so sensitive is he about it that any allu- sion would be a deadly insult. I must manage to make friends with him again; though, after all, it is with you that he is angry. I can't afford to lose his metaphors. He's Littlegood, but I must use the little good there is in him.  "I am sorry that I was so eager in retorting upon him. It was hardly honest or gentlemanly." "Why not i, Pirates must not complain if they receive pirates' treatment. Littlegood is the chief of pirates. He suggested a magnificent figure of speech for me awhile ago. Looking into Burke afterward I found it there complete,-and yet Littlegood had given me to under- stand that it was fresh., See here,"-and Ned went to the bookcase and took down the book with which Little-   MYSELF.          203 good had been engaged,--" see the dog-ears." And turning to one of the pages indicated, and pointing to the indenture of a thumb-nail, "Here you have the definition of a well-thumbed book. These thumb-nailed passages are all copied out and appropriated wholesale. He never does it here, but after thus marking awhile he borrows the book, takes it to his den, and there does his crib- bing." CHAPTER XXII. How I went to another Party and was introduced to Miss Willis. THE evening of the party was very stormy. The rain had poured down all day in torrents, reducing the snow to a soft pulp, through which the sleigh-runners cut to the pavement. At night the wind rose, and blinds and signs creaked and crashed in wild confusion. Notwith- standing the. inclement weather, a large company assem- bled, and the cheerfulness that reigned within was in pleasing contrast with the discordant elements without. It was a pleasant as well as a large company. Literary men were there in numbers. Scholars, authors, profes- sors, divines, students, professional men, artists, and mer- chants commingled. Conspicuous among the throng were two venerable "merchant princes." One was the eldest son of a well-known family of brothers, who, forty- years previously, had entered the city with only twenty dollars in his pocket. Near that time the celebrated American banker of London, George Peabody, in passing through Concord, New Hampshire, to Vermont, paid his hotel bill by sawing wood. Uninterrupted success in trade, a life of probity, and charities unostentatious and unbounded, had won for our merchant a fame that a hun- dred battle-fields or scores of diplomatic victories could not bestow. The other of our merchants was a native of Boston, "to the manner born."  At the age of five, from the   204         MYSELF. window of his father's residence in King Street, he wit- nessed the famous Boston massacre, when a black man fell the first martyr to American Independence. "Ce beau viellard/" exclaimed the wife of a foreign ambassador, when, in his old age, she visited him at his country-seat. He was indeed a beautiful old man, beautiful alike in person and character. A third noticeable man was just in the prime of life. His scholarly qualities had then gained him less reputation than his radical opinions in regard to our national evil. Since then his opinions and scholarship have received the homage of two hemispheres. Ned Whiting was accustomed to say that, like Achilles, he was invulnerable everywhere, save in his heel,-he was a "Long-heeled abolitionist," a follower of Garrison; He possessed a long, uneven face, a broad but not high, forehead, and a luxuriant growth of dark-brown hair. His smile was sunny and infectious, and his greeting warm and cordial. Close-following his shadow, was a fourth individual, almost a boy, so fair was his complexion, and so youthful his countenance. Yet this man was an attorney, a poli- tician, and an orator. The " little triumvirate, three and inseparable," as Ned called himself, Anderson, and me, were present! Ned was early at my side. "How's this? Does this suit your aristocratic ideas? By the way, Miss Willis and the governor are here. Have you ever been presented to her?" "Not yet," I replied. "t That's strange. But then the governor. is very cau- tious with his property, and she's the most precious pearl of all. Come with me. Miss Willis is with him in yon- der -parlor, and perhaps you may get an introduction." It was useless to say no, or to demur in any shape. Ned had me by the arm before I could speak, impelling me forward.  I let him take his own way. Mr. Willis noticed our approach, ard I thought notified his daughter. She looked for a  moment apparently irresolute. This might have been my imagination, but I was almost sure I observed it. Mr. Willis beckoned us to advance, and  gave me a formal presentation. His   MYSELF.          205 daughter received me with a low courtesy, and in reply to a remark of Mr. Willis, observed,-- "I am always happy in making the acquaintance of my father's friends." "Did you notice that?" asked Ned, as we passed away a moment after, and Anderson joined us in our promenade. Ned was quite excited. "No. What?" "Why, the delicate sarcasm of Miss Willis-intended for my especial benefit. Always happy in making the ac- quaintance of her father's friends. How well she knew that I am none of the governor's favorites!" "Pooh!" exclaimed Anderson, " you are too sensitive. How do you know you are not? ou imagine all that." "Perhaps so," said Ned, while I remembered the mo- mentary embarrassment of Miss Willis; "but, confound it, she acted so queerly when she saw us coming. Didn't you see how odd she appeared?" "I'm no judge of her oddities," I replied, carelessly. "Oh, no; I forgot. You are a stranger to her. Of course, like a good Christian, she took you in. But she didn't me. There's a wrong kink somewhere, and it chafes me." "Try a little pearl-powder," suggested Anderson. "Bah! I'm not a baby," exclaimed Ned, with a grimace. Then, changing his tone to one of reproof, he said,- "That remark smells of the shop, Anderson. How many times I have told both of you to leave your shops behind you! I suppose Head will resent that, but I'll be hanged if I can tell you which is the grosser of the two." "Punning, are you?" said I. "As you like it. But as you will dabble in business, Anderson, let me give you a bit of advice,-how old Tape String made his money. As our friend has just entered business the recipe may be useful." "Proceed," said Anderson. "Old Tape String never failed to assure his customers that if his wares were not what he represented he would make them good for nothing. A slight change in the punctuation made all the difference in the world, in the profit of the thing." i8   20o6         MYSELF. "Thank you," rejoined Anderson. "For such valua- ble advice I'll pay you in trade, and warrant according to your recipe. As you are subject to chafes it will be an object to you." ' I am much obliged," said Ned; ' but I am not in the want of either pearl-powder or pearl-ashes. I am inter- ested just now with eyelashes. I know of a pair that would be a fortune. By-the-by, boys, there's a character here to-night. She just passed yonder. You should have seen the majestic bow she gave me when I met her a few moments ago. Miss Penultimate Hope aspires to the character of a blue stocking."  "Miss Penultimate Hope?"I remarked, with a smile. "Yes. Penultimate"Is the name. There were three sisters of them, and when I went to school we boys named them Ultimate, Penultimate, and Antepenultimate. Ante- penultimate went off one day with the consumption, and Ultimate with a clerk; and Penultimate, like the last rose of Summer Street, is left blooming alone. And bloom she does, like a Savoy cabbage among a bed of tulips. A very eligible match for somebody,-gaunt, grim, and garrulous; age forty-five by her father's register, twenty-three by her own. She reverses the law that Time changes all things, --she changes Time. Shall I introduce you?" "Not at present," replied Anderson. "I introduced myself. Did I ever'tell you how?" asked Ned. - No." "Let's get into this recess. The story will do to pass off the time till the music is forthcoming; and of that Bell has agreed to notify me. You know I do nothing but dance on these occasions. I am none of your Long- heels; but I have an immensely fantastic toe. For con- diments I love capers, and for game prefer pigeon-wings to wo6dcock or partridge." "But that does not enlighten us in regard to Miss Hope," said I.  .A "I beg your pardon,--so it doesn't. My nonsense, like froth on beer, is always uppermost. The Wards gave a party, and your humble servant was there to see. On passing through the rooms I met Miss Penultimate, and   MYSELF.         207 impudently tipped her a wink. That was a long while ago," said Ned, apologetically; "I have learned better manners since." "I should hope so," suggested Anderson. "I have,-in theory, at least," he rejoined. "Miss Pen- ultimate received my manifestation in high dudgeon. She stoppedme short and demanded an explanation. I almost thought it was ' explain, apologize, or fight,' and I never fight a woman." "Nor anybody else," laughed both Anderson and I. "Oh, yes I do. I fight-shy. Now, don't bother me, please. At this unexpected turn of Miss P., my impudence nearly deserted me; but I rallied, and blandly as I could--you know how much of suavity I can command when I please--I told her that I winked as one does looking at the sun, her beauty dazzled my eyes. " "That was like piling Pelion upon Ossa," said An- derson. "No, my classic shopkeeping friend. It was only tak- ing the rag off her resentment. She received the expla- nation as a compliment, and acknowledged it by a subse- quent sonnet upon my eyebrows." /"A sonnet?"I asked. "Pray what did she say?" "Say? What do you suppose? Don't you know that hope always tells a flattering tale?" 9"Perhaps," said I, laughing, " hers are those eyelashes with which you are so desperately in love." "Oh, bother!"And Ned's countenance expressed un- utterable disgust.!"There are better above old Anthony's nose. But here comes Bell to toll me away. I'm off. Good-by, gentlemen." "Good-by," said I, adding,-"When shall we three meet again?" "At the supper-table, provided they have meat." And Ned elbowed his way to his sister. "A curious compound of wit and nonsense," remarked Anderson, when he was gone. "The story about Miss Hope is characteristic. Ned entertains an intense aver- sion to old maids. I have heard of a lampoon he wrote of a maiden connection of the family, with whom he had   208          MYSELF. become 'displeased, the closing stanza of which was some. thing like this: "' Aunt Peggy in years is rising threescore, She'll die and be buried some one of these days, And then the good people she'll trouble no more,- The people she's kept in the hottest of blaze; Her life has been such from the date of her birth I scarcely dare venture a thought where she'll go She's proved such a torment while here upon earth, I suppose she'll be sent for a torment below.' "But, come, the people are moving about; let us fol- low their example, even if we enact no more than the part of lookers-on." We left the alcove in which we had taken refuge, and wandered through the rooms. The young people were already gliding through the steps of a quadrille. We looked about for Miss Willis, and found her in a conver- sational circle. Anderson, at this point, drew my atten- tion away. "There goes Ned's Miss Penultimate Hope." A prim, starched female, whose charms were already on the wane, sailed by. We returned to the dancers, and I left Anderson in charge of Bell Whiting. "Get Miss Willis," whispered Ned to me. "It is dull here without her." I went out, but not for the purpose suggested by Ned. Curiosity led me back to the conversation-party. Making my way towards the circle, I found Miss Willis the only lady sustaining a part in the conversation, which was on the all-absorbing topic of politics, the others remaining silent, except as they now and then added an applauding echo to her sentiments. Opposed to her was a young Virginian by the name of Blood, who was spending the winter in Boston. Like all from his section, he was ardent, impulsive, giving expres- sion to his opinions with confidence, and maintaining them with warmth. His volubility had driven the old and slow-spoken from the field of debate, and left only the subtle wit and flexible tongue of Miss Willis opposed to him. He was indulging in an earnest eulogy of the Fu-   MYSELF.          209 gitive Slave Law, and inveighing against the North for its disposition to ignore what he termed "the compromises of the Constitution." As he closed, a low voice at my side exclaimed,- "That's my doctrine. I support our first-family-man there." It was that of Ned Whiting, who had followed me from the dancers. But Ned's countenance fell when Miss Wil- lis took up the cudgel in defense of the North, and in opposition to the fugitive act, which she maintained was a disgrace not only to the statute-book, but to the age. She denied its constitutionality, and the obligations of the North to recognize it. "The lady, I suppose, puts her opinion in regard to its constitutionality in opposition to that of Mr. Webster," remarked the Virginian, sarcastically, " and then in vir- tue of the deference demanded for her sex, asks us to find a verdict in her favor. She must excuse me for declining to encourage the proposition." "I ask nothing on the score of sex," returned Miss Willis, with spirit. "Will the gentleman point to the place where Mr. Webster indorses the constitutionality of the law?" "Oh! oh!" exclaimed a chorus of voices; and one gen- tleman, with a smile, to counteract the bitterness of cor- rection, added,- "I hardly think Miss Willis understands politics as well as she does other subjects. She can't have read the Cas- tle Garden letter." "In which Mr. Webster says the law is not such as he had proposed and should have supported had he been in the Senate. He evades the point of constitutionality by re- marking, 'I have heard no man, whose opinion is worth regarding, deny its constitutionality.' This may be true. Mr. Webster may have heard no man, although he has heard of them; and it may be grossly unconstitutional notwithstanding. Certainly he does not say it is consti- tutional." "A mere quibble," said the Virginian. "Undoubt- edly Mr. Webster meant to be understood as indorsing its constitutionality. " I8*   2 0o         MYSELF. "That I do not deny. A man may often mean to be understood as saying what in reality he does not say. Never was a truer sentence spoken than that language was given to conceal our ideas. Mr. Webster's indorsement is negative. Men who have occupied as high positions as Mr. Webster have resorted to similar subterfuges. Sub- terfuge is taught as the highest branch in the diplomatic schools. Perhaps I may incur a charge of treason if I rebel here in Boston against -the opinions of so great a man; but as I accord no reverence to gray-headed error,' so do I none to error enforced by distinguished fame or position. Office cannot privilege a wrong, nor prejudice a truth." Miss Willis spoke warmly, and with much animation. Even the Virginian found in her a match, at least in subtle argument and volubility. There was an adroitness in her language worthy a politician. I'I suppose you would not support Mr. Webster for President, if he were nominated?" suggested the Vir- ginian. "You men will not allow it." "Thank Heaven for that!"And then, with unblush- ing rudeness, he went on: "It is well that women can't vote. If they could, treason would be hatched from one end of the land to the other; for I never knew-a woman who wanted to vote who wasn't a negro-worshiper. It is wonderful what there is in a nigger that women see to commiserate. Why, our Southern negroes are better off and more contented than your Northern operatives. They wouldn't be free if they could.  He was interrupted at this point by Ned Whiting. Ned couldn't stand that. "If that's so, what do you want of a Fugitive Slave Law?" "All rules have their exceptions," was the reply, though the color showed in the Virginian's face.!"I do not denythat there are some harsh masters, and some discon- tented slaves; but the great mass of them are contented with their servitude. With these facts, it is difficult to conceive how any considerable portion of the people of this enlightened country can so surrender themselves to a   MYSELF.          2 1x fanatical devotion to the supposed interests of the rela- tively few Africans in the United States, as totally to abandon and disregard the interests of twenty-five mil- lions of white Americans." " Perhaps," returned Miss Willis, "it is not the interest of the negro that challenges this devotion, but the interests of the white man. Slave and free labor are antagonistic. This is demonstrated by the condition of the poor whites at the South. The dignity of labor receives a mortal stab at the hands of slavery. It denies natural rights and suppresses freedom of speech and opinion; and because it cannot suppress the freedom of thought, deadens and destroys it. It is the ally of ignorance, and the supporter of despotism. Morally it is wrong; and as God holds a people accountable for the sins of a State, nationally it is a curse. Because a man is black, it is no reason for en- slaving him. With his white brother he is fashioned in the image of his Maker. Nor should he be enslaved be- cause he is weaker than we, physically and intellectually. If superiority gives power to oppress, then Sir Isaac New- ton might have made slaves of all England, and Daniel Webster hold Boston in chains. Slavery has no justifica- tion by the laws of God or of natural right. We have Shakspeare's authority that it is excellent to have a giant's strength, but that it is tyrannous to use it like a giant; and of what else are we guilty but tyranny, when, being stronger, we enslave the negro contrary to all right, hu- man or divine ?" "This might all do very well," said the Virginian, "but the people of the South do not accord the dignity of perfect manhood to the negro." "Indeed ! What do you consider him ?" "The connecting link between man and the orang- outang. I see the lady smiles," he added, " but there are many excellent reasons to be adduced in support of this theory. " Miss Willis still smiled, much to the nettling of the Virginian. "Perhaps," said he, "you will enlighten the company on the cause of your merriment ?" The bitterness of his words betrayed his resentment.   212   -     MYSELF. /' "I beg pardon for the rudeness," replied Miss Willis, still smiling; "but pray, Colonel,"-turning to one of the veteran merchants before alluded to, who sat within the circle,-" is it true that the people, at the time of the Boston massacre, went mad with excitement over the slaughter of an orang-outang? You were a witness of that scene, I believe. How was Attucks looked upon?" "As a man,--and a brother!" responded the veteran with enthusiasm, forgetting in the momentary fire which the memory of that event called up all of his political pre- judices. The color had left the cheeks of the Virginian; but his own impetuosity and ignorance of history led him into thefauxpas of exclaiming,- "Attucks was a white man!" "No," said the veteran, softly shaking his head, and "no," " no," came from a half-dozen others; while quite as many replied, notwithstanding the old merchant's dec- laration,- "Yes!" " yes!" Among the latter I thought I detected the voice of Ned Whiting; but the veteran Colonel put an end to it by saying,-  "Attucks was a burly, double-fisted colored man, who was in the front ranks of the populace, and was the first that fell. I do not know that the fact of his being a negro was ever taken into account, or rendered the general con- demnation of the massacre any the less." "I'm  done up!" exclaimed Ned, in a tone intended only for my ear, " played out and gone! That's the first I ever heard that Attucks was a nigger." To this confession of ignorance I made no reply. I was too interested a spectator of the main combat to engage in by-play. "This accords fully," said Miss Willis, "with the re- marks of John Adams, defending the acts of the Colonies. He says the ' brotherly sympathy' of all the Colonies was such that the innocent blood spilt then was never for- gotten, nor forgiven, by any part of the continent. Cer- tainly, this doctrine, of which the gentleman speaks, must be of recent origin." The Virginian did not care to expatiate further on the   MYSELF.          2 3 merits of his theory. Ridicule had accomplished in a moment what might have required sober argument an hour to overthrow. He admitted that the negro might belong to the human race. In fact, he was of that opinion; but, then, the negro was a very degraded species of man. "Of how many species do you hold mankind to be composed ?" asked Miss Willis. "A half-dozen, at least. That was Voltaire's theory, and he was supported in it by many other eminent phi- losophers. He declares that the white and black races are distinguished from each other by as essential characteristics in their organization as a palm-tree is from a pear-tree. And it is a further fact, in direct support of his theory, .that natural philosophers and writers of travels have com- municated without design the result of their inquiries con- cerning the human family, describing the difference of the races, in form, color, and the intellectual powers, and the varieties arising from the mixtures of the races, and they have pointed out great and prominent distinctions between them, showing conclusively that these differences cannot be laid to the account of climate or mode of subsistence, but depend upon original difference of parentage. This whole matter is ably stated by the German Bretschneider. " "It is unfortunate," said Miss Willis, gravely, in re- ply, as the Virginian looked bravely about to perceive the effect of his formidable speech, " that you should quote a man who erected his theory only that he might batter down with it the Mosaic account of the creation. This was the end and aim of Voltaire. It is very bad, sir, when slavery is obliged to call to its aid the spirit of Draco in enacting its laws, and the superficial theories of an infidel to sustain its injustices. You go to the Bible to prove its divinity; you would overthrow the Bible to defend its enormity. Voltaire was not a naturalist, and by the side of Linnaeus, Buffon, Cuvier, and Blumenbach, who all held to the unity of the human race, he is very poor authority. Cuvier tells us that although there are various races, with differently constituted organizations, they are all propagated in an hereditary way from one common parent. Blumenbach said he could not see a reason why he should have the least doubt that all the people of the world sprang from  2I4         MYSELF. the same family; and he quotes the others I have named in support of his opinion. They all agree that the Cau- casian and the negro are but varieties of the same genus. Being a man, then, why should not the negro be treated like a man? Why should he .not be entitled to equal benefit of the principles inculcated in the Declaration of Independence-equality of right, such as the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? The Declaration is either a lie, or slavery stands condemned by our govern- ment from -its outset."' "The Declaration is a lie!" responded the Virginian, coolly. 'The men who promulgated it knew it was a lie, -a self-evident one. The idea of human equality was thrown out for effect,-to catch the masses. The Decla- ration is made up of a mass of glittering and sounding gen- eralities,-it is the passionate manifesto of a revolutionary war. The whole political result of that revolution was the formation of a Federal republic of the free whites of the Colonies,-not the blacks or the Indians. As for those two subject races, the wise and brave statesmen of that day, being engaged in no extravagant schemes of social change, left them as they were." Astonishment sat on the countenances of the whole company. The bold doctrine advanced by the Virginian found no echoes in the breasts of those who heard it. There were all shades of political opinions present, but none that dared at that period to go so far in denouncing the great Declaration of national liberty. Dismay and chagrin sat on the countenances of those who had been disposed to support the Virginian's side of the question. He was entirely too radical for them. It seemed that he felt this, for he said,-- "I dare say these sentiments are novel, but they are true, nevertheless; and in a few years will become, if not general, the opinion of your leading politicians, your statesmen, judges, and Presidents." "No! no!" was the general exclamation. ' They will," persisted the Virginian,-" your Choates, Taneys, and Pierces will embrace and declare them.* ' The reader will notice that the sentiments put into the mouth of the Virginian are really sentiments that were gravely uttered by Choate, Taney, and Pierce.   MYSELF.          2I5 The Declaration will be repudiated by your highest men, as an abstraction, without vital force." Amid the strong excitement manifested about her, and the general disgust felt for the Virginian by the company, Miss Willis sat quite calm and unmoved. At length she spoke: "I thank the gentleman for teaching me a fitting retort. He doubtless puts his opinion of the Declaration of In- dependence in opposition to the opinion of Jefferson, Adams, and all the fathers of our country; and then, in virtue of the deference demanded for his place of nativity, asks us to find a verdict in his favor. He must excuse me if I decline to encourage his proposition." It was a fair hit. The laugh was at the expense of the Southerner, and the good humor of the company was re- stored. Miss Willis prepared to follow up her entering blow. "We are not without light on the subject of the haste and passion of that manifesto, as you are pleased to term the Declaration of Independence. The quarrel of Pick- ering with Jefferson opens the whole subject to our search. There was a question how far credit is due Jefferson in composing it. Pickering wrote to John Adams, and Mr. Adams replied that there was not an idea in the Declara- tion but had been hackneyed in Congress for two years. The substance was contained in the Declaration of Rights and the violation of those rights, to be found in the jour- nals of Congress in 1774. Indeed, the essence of it was contained in a pamphlet printed by the town of Bos- ton before the first Congress met. That pamphlet was written by James Otis and polished by Samuel Adams. What John Adams said having reached the ears of Jef- ferson, the latter wrote to Henry Lee that he never claimed any new principle in it. It was not, said he, to find out new principles and new arguments never before thought of, nor to say things never said before, but to place before mankind the common sense of the subject, in terms so plain and firm as to command their assent. It neither aimed at originality of principle or sentiment, nor was it copied from any particular writing. It was in- tended to be an expression of the American mind, and   2 6         MYSELF. to -give to that expression the proper tone and spirit de- manded by the occasion. All its authority vested in the harmonizing sentiments of the day, whether expressed in conventions, in letters, in printed essays, or in the ele- mentary books of public right. And Jefferson names them,-Aristotle, Cicero, Locke, Sidney, etc. This was what Jefferson said in i825, at the age of eighty-two, with one foot in the grave and the other lifted to follow it. If the Declaration was a self-evident lie, and he knew it, why did he at that age reindorse it? Why did he say that every man and every body oft men on earth possess the right of self-government?-that they receive it with their being from the hand of Nature,-if he did not believe it?" The gentleman of whose scholarly qualities I have spoken --the modern Achilles of Ned Whiting-had remained a silent listener to the whole of the discussion. At this point he remarked, as the Virginian was chafing under the words of Miss Willis,- a It is quite true that many men differ in opinion from the Declaration of Independence. Their views may be expressed in the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of Ken- tucky." "What is that, sir?" asked the Southerner. "'Really," said Miss Willis, with delicate sarcasm, "a person so fully informed in regard to natural rights, ought not to be ignorant of such a matter. It declares, not that all men are created equal, but that all free men are equal. The Kentuckians thought they saw the fallacy to which Jefferson had given currency, and thus they cor- rected it. No doubt you subscribe to the amendment, sir?" "On the contrary, I repudiate it."  There were evi- dences of temper on the part of the Southerner, though he labored hard to conceal them, and nearly succeeded. His words were marked with a peculiar emphasis. "I never believed that even white men were equal. There is as much an aristocracy among them as there is a supe- riority in one breed of cattle or horses over another. Look, for instance, at the chivalrous settlers of Virginia, descendants of the gallant cavaliers, and compare them   MYSELF.          21 7 with your own Puritan forefathers. The one class was composed of the flower of the English gentry; the other sprang from serfs and villeins,--ignoble in blood, base in disposition, and mean and abject in spirit." The insult was direct and gross. The entire company was included. While my own blood tingled to resent it, I saw the color mount to the fair cheeks of Miss Willis, and fire flash from her eyes. She struggled for a moment to control her speech, but during that moment the gentle- man who had provoked the taunt interposed, and gave time for reflection to cool her otherwise too sharp retort. "I am aware, sir," was his calm reply, "that our Yankee fathers have been the subject of contemptuous speech by the gentlemen of the South. Few persons have suffered more from cotemporary misrepresentation than they. At first a small body, the English Puritans were regarded with indifference; but by degrees they grew in number, and drew into their company men of education, intelligence, and even of rank; and then they were objects of political hatred. Reformers. in all ages have had little of blessing from the world which they have sought to serve." "Reformers!" echoed the Virginian, with a sneer. "When men get their heads cracked by over-filling with crotchets and isms, they at once proclaim themselves re- formers. The Puritans tried to make the world believe that their fanaticisms and austerities were the very pinks of Christian virtues. , They cut down May-poles and pro- hibited dancing; and broke up bear-fights, as Macaulay says, not because of the pain they gave to the bear, but because of the amusements afforded to the spectators." "They broke them up because of the brutalizing tend- ency of the spectacle. The savage sport is in ill-keeping with a Christian community. If the Puritans were austere, rarely have austere principles been expressed with more gentleness. Was it a fanaticism when, by a covenant with God, they agreed to walk in all his ways to the best of their endeavors, whatever it should cost them? The prin- ciples of human equality were well understood by them. 'When we are in our graves,' said they, ' it will be all one x9   218         MYSELF. whether we have lived on plenty or in penury, whether we have died on beds of down or locks of straw.' " "The idea of Diogenes," remarked Ned, loud enough to be overheard by Miss Willis, who cast her eyes around, and for the first time observed our presence. "Little- good's theory of nothing original," he added to me, "is confirmed in this instance." "All of which goes, I suppose, to prove that niggers and Roundheads are on a- level with gentlemen," retorted the Virginian. ".Cynics and fanatics are taken as authority only by their own kind." "Curse his impudence!" muttered Ned, taking the words as applied to him, yet too well-bred to quarrel in such a place. "I'm no cynic, unless man-hating consists in contempt for such poor blood as he." "Pray tell me," continued the Southerner, "of what great military or other achievements your Puritan fore- fathers can boast? What were they but turbulent citizens, rebellious subjects, and tyrannical masters?" "I know King James branded them as the very pests in the church and the commonwealth. But if they were turbulent and rebellious, it was through them that the spirit of modern freedom made itself potently felt in its great warfare for religious, intellectual, and political eman- cipation. Such services did they do that Hume, whose cold nature sympathized but little with their burning souls, is obliged to confess that to the Puritans alone the Eng- lish owe the whole freedom of their constitution. Our Pilgrim forefathers are celebrated not for any victory of war; not for any triumph of discovery, science, learning, or eloquence; not for any worldly success. How poor are all these things by the side of that divine virtue which made them, amid the reproach, obloquy, and hardness of the world, hold fast to freedom and to truth!"* It was evident the Virginian, who had thrust himself forward in the debate, had failed to sustain himself. Perhaps there was little sympathy for the free-soil princi- ples of his opponent; but there was less for his ultraism + The foregoing defense of the Puritans may be found in one of Charlt Sumner's orations at Plymouth.   MYSELF.          219 concerning the Declaration of Independence. Nor did he mend his cause by his sneers at the Pilgrim Fathers. "I fear you are not making much progress, sir," re- marked one of the two veteran merchants to him, with a smile. "We Yankees are jealous for the fame of our Pu- ritan ancestry. On that point, you will have the entire company in opposition." "I'm used to opposition, sir," was the complacent reply. "H can manage a discussion with more men than there are here." "But not with one woman," said the veteran, pleas- antly. And then he turned away to give vent to an expres- sion of disgust. "'No man stands an equal chance with them," responded the Virginian, addressing the company. "They can out- talk him. The Jewish doctors had a fable on the etymol- ogy of Eve, which they said signifies to talk,-that soon after the creation twelve baskets of chit-chat fell from heaven, of which Eve gathered up nine/while poor Adam was gathering up three. Hence the man who gets into a dispute with a woman has only one chance in four for the victory." The witticism, ungracious as it was, elicited consider- able merriment; but Miss Willis blunted it by replying,- "The fable only shows the superior activity of woman; and I suppose that is one reason why men do not like to allow her an equal chance." "Aha!" exclaimed her antagonist. "I thought I should catch you. You are a woman's rights advocate." "And pray what's the harm?" returned Miss Willis, quietly. "I am the advocate of every one's rights. As to the true definition of women's rights there may be a dispute. " I' You favor women's voting, holding office, and the like, I suppose?" said he, looking about confidently, as if to say, "I've got her fast now." "I do not, unless women wish it, and I know of but few who do. The true sphere of woman, to my view, is not amid the excitements and corruption of the political canvass, but presiding in the domestic sanctuary. Hers should be the restraining, soothing influence, not an influ-   MYSELF. ence to urge forward the rougher and more impetuous na- ture of man. I would far rather stand at the head of my own sex, gracing and adorning it, than be at best but a poor imitation of the other." Bravo !" exclaimed several gentlemen in chorus. "'You don't corner our Boston girl so easily," added one. "But she confesses herself a higher-law abolitionist," responded the Southerner; "and that's about the same thing." "And in that I only imitate the example of Washington, Jefferson, and Franklin," said Miss Willis. "I am an abolitionist. I wish the fetters were struck from the limbs of every slave in the universe. I believe our country would be the richer and happier for it. Humanity should form one great and common brotherhood, and as a part of such brotherhood would I treat the slave." "Would you take a nigger to your table?" asked the Virginian, triumphantly.  "Let us test your principles concerning this brotherhood." " Why not," she asked, " if the negro were of respect- able character ?" Her eyes flashed fire. " You had one of these niggers for your nurse. She hushed you to sleep in her arms; and kissed you quite as often, I dare say, as your own mother. You had negroes for playmates. You divided your melons and green corn with them. You sat in their shanties and eat at their tables times with- out number. But what of that ? I have seen slaves in your cherished Virginia as white as you or I. The blood of the cavaliers flowed in their veins. Why should I not invite them to sit at my table, when you have sat at theirs ?" Roars of laughter followed this biting retort,-a retort replete with the keenest sarcasm. The Southerner was intensely nettled.  The allusion to the white slaves of Virginia touched him to the quick, as it always does every Southerner. "Suppose they are white," he retorted, with manifest temper.  "It only carries out your favorite theory of brotherhood and amalgamation.' "Amalgamation, but not brotherhood," she replied.   MYSELF.   221   " I do not advocate amalgamation for the purpose of slave- breeding." An indelicate response from the Virginian broke up the circle. His temper had got beyond his control. Miss Willis arose from her seat, and asked me to lead her from the apartment. "I cannot consent to remain where propriety is out- raged," she said. " I have stayed quite too long already," she added, as we passed out. " My own temper was too fierce for a woman. I came near exposing him once, when he boasted so of the old Virginia stock of gentlemen." "Is he not a Virginian ?" I asked. "By birth, but not altogether by descent. His father was a Yankee peddler, who went South, and, disposing of his stock, engaged as an overseer on a plantation. Of true Yankee character, his study was thrift. In his gettings he got money. He got a wife, and a plantation with its negroes with her, and now he sends his sons to the North to sneer at and vilify his ancestry." At this moment a hand gently tugged Miss Willis's dress. She halted. A distinguished clerical gentleman, one who did not think it beneath the dignity of his sacred profession to mix in company, even though dancing formed part of the entertainment, stood before her. I--I sincerely beg your pardon, Miss Willis," said he, in his blandest tones; "but I-I greatly fear you have left a bad impression behind. I do not wish to be con- sidered as apologizing for the rudeness of the gentleman with whom you have recently had so animating a discussion, -but,-I--I am-really concerned-lest you have con- veyed the idea that you are an advocate of amalgamation. I am sure-I am quite sure-that you are not." Miss Willis listened without any visible embarrassment or emotion. "I know-I am confident-you will pardon me, Miss Willis," he continued; "but I am really jealous of the fame of so gifted a young lady. I beg that you will allow me to remove the impression. You certainly did not mean to be understood that you would admit a negro to your table?"   222         MYSELF. "Sir," said she, laying her hand within that of the clergyman, which I observed him to give a little squeeze, "I believe you are a Christian minister?" "An humble follower of the Lord Jesus," he answered, devoutly, bowing low. "And, no doubt, you believe that negroes have souls to be saved or to be lost?"     , "Yes," said he, hesitatingly. "Then, my dear sir,"-and Miss Willis resumed her sweetest and most winning manner,-'" if you cannot sit down with a negro at your own table here on earth, how can you expect to sit down with him at your Father's table in heaven?" She turned away abruptly, and we left the astounded clergyman to settle the question with his own conscience. As we passed from his hearing, Miss Willis gave vent to her own feelings by uttering the line from Hood,- "Alas, for the rarity of Christian charity!" "I may be impertinent, Mr. Head," she added, apolo- getically; "but, oh, how my nature abhors the pitiful meannesses of these men! And for them to undertake a rebuke to me,-H--it chokes me." !"But," said I, soothingly, " there is food for thought in Rev. Dr. Atkins's suggestion. It may injure you to be known as an amalgamationist." "I hang my salvation on no one's opinion," said she, proudly. "I am at peace with my own conscience; my reason approves my opinions, and I am content." "But public opinion is excited on these questions," said I. "A marked degree of obloquy rests upon simple aboli- tionists merely. How much more upon amalgamationists!" "I am not an amalgamationist," she replied; "but I was too proud to say as much to him." "Then how much the more grievous the imputation, if there be no truth in it!" "You shall be my  advocate," she whispered, gayly. "To you I  have confessed." The words went to my heart- not so much on account of the matter as the manner in-which they were uttered. Me? Hreradvocate!  I glanced at her countenance. Every   M YSELF.          223 shade of seriousness had vanished. Her lip trembled; but it was an affected air of roguery that I could not compre- hend. Ah! who can comprehend a woman? "See!" she exclaimed, "the dancers are just joining for a quadrille. Shall we dance?" "With pleasure, if you will be content with a poor part- ner. " "Oh! oh'! Sir! I have heard how well you dance. Miss Bell Whiting thinks no one so pleasant a partner as you. " I blushed incontinently. CHAPTER XXIII. How I became Ill, and was taken to the Residence of Mr. Willis, and how Rev. Jeremiah Atkins undertook to make a Proselyte. THERE was a perceptible buzz in the room as we appeared upon the floor, and for the moment I fancied myself an object of envy to many of the young gentlemen. Before the quadrille was ended, the hand of Miss Willis was solicited for the next by a half-dozen. Her manner of receiving and dismissing these requests revealed to me something of that wonderful power she was reputed to possess. There was an air of simplicity, of ease, and un- affected affability that made her negative more acceptable than many others' affirmative. She possessed an innate charm of manner that could not fail to attract. Her easy flow of speech, her lively repartee, replete with humor, and marked by a total absence of that sarcasm and severity that she had displayed in the recent discussion with the young Virginian, together with a sparkling vivacity, kept everybody about her radiant with good nature. I confess that I relinquished her hand at the close of the quadrille with regret. As I conducted her from the floor, with an arch look she said,- "I think Bell Whiting's verdict a not very unjust one." I blushed again, and begged that if I was so satisfactory   224         MYSE:LF. a partner I might be honored with her hand again during the evening. "With pleasure," she replied, " after I have disposed of a few engagements that I have contracted." There was a strange feeling at my heart as I left her and elbowed my way from the apartment, and wandered to the hall and to the door that overlooked the street. The storm still raged with unabated fury. There was a hollow murmur to the wind as it swept by that was sadly in unison with the murmurings of my own heart. The sound of the rain pattering on the sidewalk and against the building, fell gratefully on my ear. My soul was in tumult similar to the elements. Careless of what I was doing, of my exposure to the storm, I leaned against the door-post and was lost to all about me. Above the wild cries of the storm and the notes of the orchestra the pleas- ant tones of Miss Willis's voice rang in my ear, and ab- sorbed all my senses. Ah, poor Kate Blake! I was awakened from my reverie by a sudden shake that sent me out on the landing beneath the portico. "Halloo!" exclaimed Ned Whiting, " have you set up for a statue of the meditative philosopher?" For an instant my temper lost its equilibrium. My shoes were not of a material calculated for street wear, and the rain that had been blown in by the gusts had penetrated them as though they were but so much sponge. Awakened from a pleasant dream, it was like leaping from -one's bed into a cold bath. VeYou have done it now!"I ejaculated, in a tone of vexation. "Done what, old fellow?" '"Don't you see?" said I, holding up a foot. St I'm ever so sorry," exclaimed Ned, apologetically. "I didn't notice when I touched you that you were roost- ing like a goose on one foot. But never mind the water; you'll have your pumps going in a minute. Bell has sent me in pursuit of you, to ask if you intend to cut her, now that you have made the acquaintance of Miss Willis. As a  brother, I have a right to demand an explanation." "You have no right to thrust me out of a door not your   MYSELF.          225 own, nor to offer me a sacrifice to the deity of the storm. As for your sister, I'll make my apology in person." I went back to the dancers and sought Miss Whiting, to whom I made my regrets for the seeming neglect. "Is it a seeming one?" she asked, giving me a queer but smiling look. "It seemed very easily accounted for. I saw the covert gaze that Miss Willis gave after you, as, blushing, you left her side!" "Pshaw! This is nonsense. What am I to Hecuba, and what is Hecuba to me?" "I'm sure I don't know, unless Hecuba is Miss Willis. What is Miss Willis to you?" (' Nothing." Nothing? Take care, young man I It looked mar- velously like love at first sight." I' But it is not the first sight," said I, somewhat discom- posed, and withal a little amused. "Oh! Old acquaintances are you,-and never let me know it?" I shook my head. "No?" - I looked full at her, and she laughed and gave me her hand. "I beg your pardon, Mr. Head. This annoys you. I only wanted to rally you a little. What did Ned say?" I informed her of the contretemps at the door. "He is always unthinking," she exclaimed. "But I wish there were none in the world more given to inten- tional unkindness. If he only possessed a little of your energy and ambition." "Mine?" said I. "I was not before aware that I pos- sessed ambition." "Perhaps not ambition, but you are so devoted to your professional studies. I have often heard Ned refer to it, and lament that he could not spur himself up to a level with you." Notwithstanding Bell Whiting's most determined efforts to engage me in conversation, I was very abstracted. How little did she divine the cause! Doubtless she attrib- uted it to the potent spell thrown over me by Miss Wil- lis. But that would have been an error. My poor wet   226     .MYSELF. feet! They were very sudden dampers? to the emotions of the heart. I felt a chilliness sensibly creeping upon me. The affair was serious, too. I found that I was taking a violent cold, and all my efforts to do the agreeable to my fair companion were insipid and fruitless. I left her, sought out Anderson, to whom I mentioned my case, and begged him to make my apologies for the sudden desertion, and accepting the, proffer of a gentle- man's carriage, was driven to my lodgings. The next morning found me hoarse and very feverish. I did not go to the office. I did not even go down to the breakfast-table. I arose and essayed to dress, but crept, fainting and shivering, back to my bed, fully convinced that I was ill. The chambermaid poked her head into -my  room, but withdrew it, not to come again. Master George appeared at noon. He said they had concluded at the office that I was unwell, and had sent him to ascertain. Master George went down and sent up my landlady, who said she would order a fire built, and send up my dinner. She hoped I was not very sick. When she went out, I saw nobody for an hour or more. Then Mr. Willis came. Ned Whiting followed close after, and he did not wait for a servant, but set about building a fire himself. Mr. Willis dispatched a servant, who at this moment made his appear- ance, for a physician. "Unfeeling people!" exclaimed Ned. "Would they allow a man to die before making any exertion in his be- half?"I "Mrs. Jenkins is very kind," said I, extenuatingly. "Kind!" he retorted, rising up from the grate where he had been puffing and blowing till he was red in the face, and brushing the ashes from his clothes; " yes; very! Kind of a brute!" The physician appeared shortly. After an examination, and an inquiry into what I had donej he said,-- I' I have been called none too soon." "I think hehas a fever, sir," said Mr. Willis. "Not quite; but he is seriously threatened. I may not be able to throw it off, but I will try."  "You must try!" said Ned, earnestly. My escape was a narrow one. I had become much re- -   MYSELF.          2  ; duced from confinement at the office, and the disease clung to me with tenacity; but, urged on by Mr. Willis, and his daughter, by Ned Whiting and Anderson, the doctor was unremitting in his efforts. No  man was ever m ore tenderly and faithfully cared for than was I. Ned Whiting left his offce, and Ander- son his counting-room, and aternately watched at my bed- side. Miss Willis called almost daily, and Mr. Hall came nearly every evening, saying he missed my assistance, but that Mr. Willis was cheerfully supplying my place. I regarded none of the many kindnesses that I received so much as those from Miss Willis. I saw how she at- tempted to disguise her solicitude, and the knowledge that she was endeavoring to conceal an interest she feared to betray, rendered her doubly an object of interest to me. The second morning that she came, she expressed very serious anxiety. I had been in a feverish dream, and start- ing up, found her bending over me. I gave her the phy- sician's opinion that I was in a critical state, but said I thought he overrated the danger. And it was about all I could say, for I was very ill. She replied,-- "I hope he has overstated it." A little break in her voice attracted my attention. She was quite pale. She turned away instantly, and soon after departed. I did not forget the incident, although I was in a poor condition for remembering anything. So soon as the doctor pronounced removal practicable, Mr. Willis sent a carriage for me and had me driven to his own residence. I was lifted out of the carriage bodily by the servants, and laid on a couch in an apartment heated so in imitation of nature that I fancied myself transferred to the genial regions of the South. It was a refreshing change from the dry, arched atmosphere of my own chapartmentnge f. I met at once with a sensible relief from the troublesome cough with which I had been afficted. My disease was as much the result of over-exertion as from exposureatthe party. The latter simply brought it to a crisis. So when the fever was driven away, and I was left only to combat with a cough, Ifound my physical system wholly prostrated. I had but the strength of a child. I could barely totter from my bed to my chair,   228         MYSELF. and from my chair back again to my bed. In this way I remained for weeks,-getting no worse, and apparently no better. Ned Whiting and Anderson followed me to my new lodgings, and my hours of confinement were almost con- tinually enlivened by the presence of friends. It was noticeable how Miss Willis adapted herself to the various humors and characters she met at my room, for she was often present as they came in to spend the evening with me. With Mr. Hall she was sedate, solid, and often brilliant; with Anderson more commonplace, yet always sensible and ladylike. She often encountered Ned-Whiting on his own ground, and often vanquished him with her sharp yet good-humored strokes of wit. As I grew slowly convalescent, I wandered down to the drawing-room, and there spent my afternoons. Miss Willis was either absent, or engaged with callers, of whom there were many. She would not allow me to retire, but insisted that I should remain and be presented. I often made my weakness my excuse for not engaging in the conversation, and either sought refuge in the library, or amused myself in studying the various characters that comprised her ac- quaintances, and wondering at the versatility of that talent which could adapt itself with ease to so many various dis- positions and tastes. "- Where," thought I, " does she find the character congenial to her own? . She so adapts herself to all, how- ever widely they differ, that one cannot tell which pleases her the most. " Among the familiar visitors of the family was a noted clergyman of the city,-a man well in years and of the most conservative opinions. He was indeed a Presby- terian of the old school, rigidly evangelical, looking on every innovation upon established usage as akin to heresy. So fearful was he of fanaticism in matters relating to pro- gress, that he became a fanatic in opposition. Rev. Dr. Jeremiah Atkins was a privileged acquaintance of the family, and ever since Miss Willis's encounter with the Virginian, Rev. Dr. Atkins had made it his especial object to place her right on the slavery question. His first attempt on the night of the discussion, it has been seen,   MYSEL F.          229 met with no very flattering result. Still, he was not dis- couraged. But a more obtuse intellect on this point he never encountered. She would not be taught. Notwith- standing the great respect she labored to evince for his ministerial character, she was earnest in opposition to his equally earnest apologies for the "peculiar insti- tution." "My dear Miss Willis," he said, during a visit one after- noon, very earnestly and very patronizingly,-"my dear Miss Willis, the North has very erroneous views of this subject. Those who have never visited the South have about as definite ideas of slavery as those Southerners who have never been North have of snow-storms, sleigh-rides, and ice-crops. Before I went South I was afflicted just the same way." "Pray, sir," she asked, "'what did you find to alter your estimate of the system?" "I was impressed with the idea that the slaves are very miserable. On the contrary, a better-looking, happier, and more courteous set of people I had never seen than the colored men, women, and children whom I met the first few days of my stay in. Savannah. How such unaf- fected politeness as I met with could have been learned under the lash I could not understand. It conflicted with all my former notions of slavery." "And so you threw aside all your former notions of slavery as false, I suppose," said Miss Willis, pleasantly, "and concluded that instead of being a curse, slavery is a blessing-making negroes polite upon compulsion." "Oh, no, no, no,-not by any means. I was not hasty in forming conclusions. But I was astonished to find so much happiness, and such absence of evils which afflict our Northern society. One of the most remarkable things which arrested my attention was the great good order that prevailed in Savannah. The slaves are generally free from street brawls and open drunkenness. There is less crime, less pauperism, less mobs, and a greater absence of popular delusions at the South than at the North." "Granting all this to be true, which I should do with reluctance," said Miss Willis, in tones if not in language of' respect, "are they to weigh in the scale against the 20   230         MYSELF. great truth that all men by nature are entitled to life, lib- erty, and the pursuit of happiness?" "That stale quotation from Jefferson again!" exclaimed Rev. Dr. Atkins, with a smile and a shrug. "Oh, it is not stale!" replied Miss Willis, earnestly, the fire of animation lighting her whole countenance. "It is living, immortal,-apt and all-powerful in every discussion on this subject. That sentence contains a com- plete refutation of every argument and every excuse for human slavery. If it did not, and what you say be true, then we at the North should at once arrest all persons dis- posed to disorder, crime, pauperism, and popular delu. sions,-and who, my dear doctor, shall say that you and I are not deluded?-and sell them to masters who will re- strain-very gently restrain-them from such things." Miss Willis concluded with a tinge of bitterness. It must have cut the clergyman to the quick. He replied, with a voice of entreaty,-  "But, my dear Miss Willis, I beg you will not misunder- stand or misinterpret me." "By no means, doctor." "All Southerners agree in declaring that slavery is a great curse." "Then, why do they not rid themselves of it?" "It was entailed upon them by England and the North, my dear Miss Willis, and they cannot." "Not by the North-not wholly by England," she re- plied. "I grant that the North has been equally guilty with the South; but the North long ago rid herself of the curse, and why should not the South do the same? It is always pleasant for one detected in wrong to have an ex- cuse for the wrong, Dr. Atkins. The excuse that slavery was thrust upon this country by England is one of this character. It lacks the merit of soundness." "Indeed! You are a wonderful person to have dis- covered to the contrary." It was a gentle raillery, for the Rev. Dr. Jeremiah Atkins never allowed himself to be other than the mildest and most winning of personages. He would not willingly offend,-least of all a young lady like Miss Willis, for whom he entertained so high an opinion.   MYSELF.         231 "I shall be exceedingly glad," he continued "to have you demonstrate the truth of your theory." "History demonstrates it," said Miss Willis. "During the colonial period no law passed by the col6nies had any vitality till it was sanctioned by the home government. The English courts held in regard to serfdom, that the condition of the child was determined by that of the father, and that all children not born in lawful wedlock must be esteemed free. This did not suit the early Virginians. Many of the offspring of negro mothers were mulattoes, and these mulattoes, according to this construction, bore irrefragable evidence of their own freedom. So early as I662, Virginia enacted a statute that the condition of the child should follow that of the mother, not of the father. The home government refused the statute its sanction, but the colony persisted in maintaining it; and we have in consequence, to-day, at least a quarter of a million of slaves held in the United States whose condition is not in consequence of anything that England ever did, but in spite of it." Rev. Dr. Atkins bit his lip and was quite staggered by the completeness of Miss Willis's vindication. He did not attempt to gainsay it; bht he appealed to me, who had remained a quiet listener, to substantiate or invalidate it. "I believe Miss Willis is right," said I. "I think the statement is made by one or two historians, but the fact has been very generally overlooked by us, so anxious are we to transfer the responsibility of slavery from our own shoulders to those of others." Rev. Dr. Atkins saw the necessity of a change of tactics. "I am -no enemy to the colored race," said he, blandly. "On the contrary, I am an ardent but not a fanatical friend of it. But being so, I am compelled to believe that while they remain with us, subordination in some form to a stronger race is absolutely necessary for their protection and best welfare,-a subordination, however, which shall be for the interests of the black man as well as his superior, and from which every degree of oppression shall be purged away, the idea of their being doomed as a race or caste abolished, and individual tendencies and aptitudes being regarded."   232         MYSELF. 'The trouble with your proposition," replied Miss Willis, ' is that it is entirely Utopian. It runs counter to human nature. So long as there is slavery there will be oppression. Mankind will hold a fellow in bondage no longer than it gratifies a self-interest or a thirst for per- sonal domination. The good of the subject race will not be taken into consideration to the detriment of our own self-aggrandizement. When self-interest ceases, indiffer- ence and negligence follow. The oppression of the slave is only one of the many evils which grow out of the insti- tution. We have the testimony of Mr. Jefferson, who was born and reared amidst slavery, as to its effects upon the masses. Because the negro is debased and degraded in the free States, we have cried down his capacity; but we should reflect that his want of capacity is owing to the heavy hand that is laid upon him to prevent his rising. The inevitable consequence of slavery is to degrade. Whether the victims are black or white, it matters not. We have kingly authority on this point. Excuse me a moment and I will bring it." And Miss Willis went to- ward the library. "Unaccountable that she is such an enthusiast on this subject, " remarked Rev. Dr. Atkins, as she closed the door behind her. "It greatly mars her otherwise excellent character. She is a young lady capable of much good." The return of Miss Willis spared me a reply. "I have here," said she, " a translation by John Adams from Stanislaus of Poland, who ascended the throne in 1764. Stanislaus speaks of the serfs and serfdom of Poland: '"' God in the creation of man gave him liberty. What right have we to deprive him of it? . . . Hitherto accustomed to their fetters, they (the serfs) think not of breaking them. . . . Reduced by misery to the state of brutes, they drag out their days in lazy stupidity, which one would almost mistake for a total want of feeling. They love no art, they value themselves on no industry, they labor no longer than the dread of chastisement forces them. Convinced that they cannot enjoy the fruits of their ingenuity, they stifle their talents, and do not even try to comprehend what they are.'   MYSELF.          233 "Now," said Miss Willis, closing the book, "is not this the inevitable tendency of all human slavery, whether white or black? Such seems to have been the opinion of Vice-President Dallas, who says that while the industry of other parts of the country springs elastically forward at every fresh impulse, and manual labor is propelled and redoubled by countless inventions, instantly understood and at once exercised, the South remains stationary, inac- cessible to such encouraging aids. And he maintains that this is not all. Slavery has its effects on the freemen of the slave States. It begets in them a disrelish for humble and hardy occupation ; a pride adverse to toil, and a dread to partake of employments allotted to slaves. The conse- quence of all this is, the North outstrips the South, and the South gets jealous and finds fault with us, and we be- come irritated and retort upon her. Iknowthatcrimi- nation and recrimination are wrong, whether indulged in by one or the other party, but the wrong has its foundation in the great curse of slavery." Rev. Dr. Atkins was getting tired of a discussion in which he could carry none of his points, and so he sud- denly recalled to mind an engagement he had to fulfill elsewhere, and respectfully took his leave. CHAPTER XXIV. In which Miss Willis gives her Views of City and Country Life, to which is added an Account of my Observations upon her Home Character. Miss WILLIS returned the book, and when she reap- peared I banteringly assured her that she was getting to be a famous female lecturer on abolitionism. "Be it so," was her quiet reply. I have sought no controversy; but when it is forced upon me, if the main- tenance of the right be abolitionism, let them make the most of it. I think you will acquit me of thrusting these discussions upon others. If men are anxious to volunteer 20*   234         MYSELF. on all occasions and in all places as apologists for slavery, I can do no less than- I have done to express my abhor- rence of it. Oh, sir," she continued, very earnestly, "when I contrast the character of Hancock in offering up his own property to destruction, in case it was necessary to bombard Boston, with the selfish, money-getting spirit that at present characterizes our people,--a spirit that in its eager grasp for riches forgets all that is due to human- ity, to liberty,--I feel like adopting the exclamation of Jefferson,--' Great cities are pestilential to the morals and liberties of a nation.' How often do I feel that if our republic is to be maintained, it is to be maintained by the hardy yeomanry scattered among our hills and val- leys!" "You admire the country, then?" "Oh, yes. Cowper said truly that God made the country; man, the town. I love the country more than the town just as I admire the works of God above those of man. There is much in art to behold and admire; but the creations of Nature, how beautiful, how inex- haustible, how untiresome! Simplicity and virtue dwell in the country, and though great wealth be rare, there is humble ease, and contentment, and health, which are to be prized the highest among worldly blessings. Honest industry begets a cheerful conscience, an elasticity of spirit, and a bodily health that are worth more than palaces and princely fortunes. I have wandered through the picture- galleries of Europe until my eyes grew weary in gazing, but my eyes never wearied in gazing upon the beauties of Nature, for 'Can imagination boast, Amidst its gay creation, hues like hers?' The gorgeous sunset, the blue of the distant hill-top, the bursting verdure of spring, the flower besprinkled meadows of June, the variegated forests of autumn, the snow-covered landscape of winter, who can paint these with the tints and magnificence of Nature? What monu- ments of art exist to compare with those of Nature, exist- ing everywhere? Perhaps"--and Miss Willis turned her pleasant but scrutirizing gaze upon me-"you do not like the country so well?"   MYSELF.          235 "I ought to prize it none the less for having my birth and passing my boyhood there." "Why did you leave it for the city?" "The excuse of thousands," said I, affecting a careless- ness I did not feel,-"ambition for distinction that I could not satisfy in the country." "Oh, this ambition for distinction!" she exclaimed. "How it urges men from their own good, and too often from their own happiness! Better live and die a village Hampden than a dissipated Mirabeau; better a youth to fortune and fame unknown than to win distinction in a city at the expense of honor and self-respect." "I do not see the necessity of one's losing his honor and self-respect in his efforts to seek distinction in the city," I replied, quite securely, and with a smile. "One may tread the ways of a metropolis and maintain his in- tegrity the same as though he spent his whole life shut up among his native hills. The temptations which beset his path may be greater, but if overcome, the greater is his strength of character. With all your love of the country, and your admiration of its peaceful scenes and people," I added, jestingly, "I dare say you would not ally your- self with a country husband in preference to a distin- guished cit." "Oh, oh!" she responded smilingly, "you have a speedy method of testing one's sincerity. But how can I tell to whom I may ally myself? The heart is not con- fined in its choice to the city nor country. It is guilty of strange freaks sometimes, and attaches itself where neither reason nor judgment concurs. But this much I answer with frankness,-I would ally myself with a very clown in the country before I would with many who are called distinguished men, that I have seen in the city. The countryman might have the merit of honesty and fidelity, which they have not. "Perhaps I have been extravagant in my admiration of the country," she continued, "but if you have seen the misery I have beheld confined within the walls of the city, and contrast it with the simple quiet happiness of country life, you would pardon all I have said. How much do the families of our laborers need the health-im-   236   ,MYSELF. parting breezes of the hills and valleys of the country! How much better situated would they be, if located upon the Western prairies, or even. upon snmall farms in our own New England!" "But you must bear in mind," said I, " that not all of these people are able to procure themselves such a home in the country, Many are artisans, who would starve if turned out to till the soil; and many consume one day what they have earned the day previous, and have no means to remove to the country, much less to purchase a farm. Such people are the sports of fortune, and ought not to be held strictly accountable for their own poverty. I confess that many of our country youths are attracted to the city to their own detriment. But much of this is owing to the lack of encouragement extended to them at home. To their unpracticed judgmet, the city affords great inducements; and the history of Boston demon- strates the fact that a large proportion of her business as well as professional men are of this class,-men who came here poor from the country, having their birth and educa- tion there. They came here early in life, and, through energy and industry, have succeeded in carving their way to wealth and distinction. ' Miss Willis bowed in acquiescence to the justice of my statement. "Such men," she replied, "are'deserving of some commendation; but how many come here- (o fall a prey to the temptations of the town, or to spend their lives, as you have said, in consuming one day what they have earned the day previousl There is much even to be lamented in the character of those who come here from the country to become our business men. How many of them are devoid of capacity save for barter and exchange? How many are confined in their aspirations to the acqui- sition of wealth, to the counting of railway and manu- facturing shares, and computation of interest that is likely to accrue from them? Where is their wealth of noble ideas; their generous benevolence that seeks to accumulate that it may bless? I would wish to make no invidious comparison," continued Miss Willis, ', but take even some of our own acquaintances. They are irreproachably honest   'MrYSEL F.        237 tnd virtuous. They possess the best of business habits and Qualifications. But when we say that, do we not reach the um of their excellencies? Where are their ideas? Con- ined to the counting-room and state of trade. Their whole ambition consists in wishing to spend their lives imidst bundles of merchandise. The world may go well )r ill with others, it is naught to them. They have no dea that all mankind are brothers, and that it is a part of their duty to assist some poor weak one who needs only a flight help--a word perhaps of recommendation or en- :ouragement-to place him above want. God never gave us wealth that we may selfishy hoard it up for our posterity to quarrel over, while our neighbors are suffer- ing. A man may possess all the virtues that the world recognizes, save benevolence, and he is not the person for Is to admire. Oh, I pity these insensible men! They forget that any assistance extended to them is only a loan, which they should repay, if not to the benefactor, to some needy one within their reach or acquaintance." I was constrained to admit the justice of her criticism. She had photographed the character of Anderson, whose private conduct was without blemish, but whose ambition centered wholly in self. The thought of making the world better or wiser occupied not a moment of his time. ' Every one for himself," was his practical motto. The thought quickly entered my mind, "Am I differ- ent?"How much the good of others had formed a part of my thoughts was a problem that I hesitated to solve. If Anderson was under obligations for his advancement, as she plainly hinted, was I not also? And was I his superior, or any better than he? I could not resist the conviction that in Miss Willis's criticism of the class in which I was constrained to think she placed Anderson, she intended some chastisement of me. A year or two previous the rebuke would have served for me to carry into retirement and brood over for a long time. Not so now. I had begun to have much self-reli- ance, and some strength of character, and felt a personal independence that prevented these things having a morbid effect on me. Happily Miss Willis took off the edge of the rebuke, if any she intended, by remarking,-   238         MYSELF. "I look upon these characteristics I have mentioned more in the light of misfortunes than faults, the legitimate fruits of a wrong education." "Yet," said I, with the purpose to draw her out, "the knowledge of these blemishes affects our estimation of the parties. " "Perhaps so," she replied; "and then why should it? Perfection is the lot of no human being. Each of us falls short, if not in one respect, then in another. The great- est of all virtues is charity,-not the charity of alms-giving, but charity in the higher and nobler acceptation of the term, charity for each other's faults. We ought to be able to look at these little weaknesses of our friends with- out allowing them to affect our regard, otherwise we might soon be as solitary in our friendships as Selkirk on Juan Fernandez. " I saw how artfully Miss Willis had evaded the tenor and intention of my remark. She did not enlighten me on the position I held in her estimation. I wished she had been more definite, but I was obliged to content myself for the present, for she was proof against all my efforts to entrap her. A call from some young lady friends who were attended by the Southerner, with whom she had the discussion at the party; put an end to our tZte-a-tete. Miss Willis re- ceived the Virginian graciously, nor did he incline to renew the conversation which he had previously broken off by language unbecoming a gentleman. He could not refrain from discovering his sectional prejudices, however, when, as Miss Willis quoted a line from Martial, he construed the author into the celebrated Chief Justice Marshall, and indulged in a brief eulogy, in which he in- cidently alluded to the superiority of Southern statesmen over those of the North. Several opportunities were subsequently afforded me for conversation with Miss Willis. Each one only served to increase my respect for her. I was much struck with the deep sense of moral rectitude that pervaded her whole being. Hers was a heart in which there was apparently no guile. Her ornaments were purchased not with money. If she ever criticised the conduct of any of her acquaint-   MYSELF.          239 ances it was not in a spirit of censoriousness, but with the charity she had so highly extolled. She shone so naturally that --her brilliancy was unnoticed, except as your attention was called to it. She conversed with me at times as with a confidential friend; and so apparently frank was she with me-opening her whole heart to my inspection- that I was led to the inquiry, "Isn't she attempting to cheat me under false pretenses?" I had been impressed from the remarks of Anderson and Ned Whiting that she was a person of much artfulness as well as oddity; and some of her behavior before I saw her in her own home confirmed the impression. The question arose then as I saw her playing the part of one possessing the highest excellencies of character, if she was not attempting to impose upon me. But these doubts of her sincerity werelsoon dispelled. To look upon the bright, earnest glow of that countenance, radiant with health and beauty; to listen to the silver tones of her voice, con- tending so musically for the advancement and elevation of humanity, one could not question her sincerity. No; she was surely not cheating under false pretenses. There is no place in which to judge of one's character like that of home. The personal deportment of Miss Willis, as I had ample opportunity to judge it from that point of view, was truly lovable. Her temper was uni- formly sweet. I think I never saw her out of humor. Whether she moved among her acquaintances, or whether she was engaged with her servants, there was the same genial disposition. I had also been led to suppose that she was decidedly masculine in her tastes and habits. I was happily dis- appointed. If she walked and rode, played at masculine games, and indulged. in masculine sports, she was still a female, and her whole soul was that of a true woman. Her nature was as gentle as her physical constitution was rugged. No warmer heart was ever more open to the wants of the distressed, and none ever more modestly concealed their b)enefactions. There was so studious a concealment on this point, that it was only through accident I discovered that she ever gave anything but sympathy to the distressed and unfortunate.   240         MYSELF. My full recovery to health was quite slow, but it was all too fast for my inclination. As I saw the hour gradually approaching when I should have to return to the office, I could not prevent a feeling of regret. , i Nearly every afternoon Mr. Willis's carriage was driven to the door that I might be indulged with a short ride. At other times it was occupied by Miss Willis, but I noticed that on occasions of her using it, generally in the evening, she never spoke of the calls she had made, nor of the acquaintances she had seen. She had been out on missions of charity. I had ever maintained my habit of early rising, and when I grew stronger I was up at my accustomed hour. But as early as I might arise, I found Miss Willis before me. Sometimes she came tripping in from a walk on the Common or to the Public Garden, her cheeks glowing with the effects of the morning air and her exercise. If the weather was stormy or damp I found her indulging in calisthenic exercises, which she did not suffer to be inter- rupted by my presence. "These," she would smilingly say, holding up her dumb- bells, "are my physicians." She was in every sense of the word her father's house- keeper. She took the entire charge of the domestic arrangements even to providing and disbursing for the household. The whole management of the servants was intrusted to her, and that management was admirable. She had so trained them in their several departments that no mistake was made except that it resulted from willful- ness, and that was not likely to occur. Each servant was perfect master or mistress of the department assigned. Having gained their confidence and esteem, and inspired their ambition to merit her commendation, she interfered no further. In this manner did she place them all under obligations to be equal to the trust reposed. She did not perplex their judgments nor lighten their responsibility by frequent' interference or dictation. - Her requisitions were general rather than particular, and they were rarely neglected or disobeyed. Between her and the domestics all was kindness and confidence. Every one looked on her as an elder sister, and their whole desire was to please her.   MYSELF.           241 Was it a wonder, then, when I saw her so lovable in the sanctity of her home, that my heart was affected with a tenderness impossible for me to prevent? However much oddity she might display in her intercourse with her friends and the world at large, in her own home she was all that could be required. None could know her there but to love her; none could speak of her except to praise. Nothing could exceed the filial tenderness of Miss Wil- lis. It expressed itself not so much in words as in deeds, -those little acts and attentions that are unnoticed ex- cept in the aggregate. No servant was intrusted with the care of her father's wardrobe or apartment. Everything for his comfort was arranged by her own hands. She saw to his linen, placed his slippers convenient to his hand, assisted him in putting on his overcoat, and performed numberless little offices, ministers to his pleasure and com- fort, which, being trivial and so often unostentatiously performed, rarely excite remark or notice. The daily routine of fashionable life affords few even- ings of secluded quiet. What with parties, concerts, operas, calls, and the like, little is left for domestic re- union. Occasionally a storm would expel visitors. At such times Mr. Willis sought his home at an early hour, and slipping in upon us would exclaim, in the fullness of his heart,- ," Now for an evening of rest!" Long and pleasant conversations ensued; or Miss Wil- lis seated herself at the harp or piano, and gave us a musical treat. The harp was seldom brought forth, and when it was, the air that Miss Willis played and sang was always mournful,-so different from the wild heart- gushing songs at the piano. I knew not the cause then, but learned subsequently that the harp was her mother's, and the sadness of both herself and Mr. Willis was explained. Yet there was a peculiarity in the conduct of Miss Wil- lis at other times, that could not be explained on this hypothesis. It displayed itself in embarrassments which she vainly attempted to conceal. When I least expected it, I found her shy of me, and she was sometimes afflicted 21   242         MYSELF. with a reserve that rendered her almost unapproachable. I noticed that this was more particularly the case when I surprised her with a question concerning her childhood or her observations in Europe. She would adroitly elude the latter point by saying that her friends had given her credit for more European travel than was justly her due. This might have arisen from her general disposition to disparage whatever related to herself. But on that point I could never approach her, and if I pressed it she pun- ished me with a reserve that taught me discretion in such approaches. CHAPTER XXV. How I am admitted to the Bar, with an Account of the Celebration of the Event. I RETURNED to the office in April, during the excitement which attended the case of Sims, who was remanded as a fugitive slave to his Southern claimants. I had gone to Mr. Willis's house with a weight on my physical consti- tution, but that had passed away, and I left the house with' the oppression transferred to my heart. For a time it disturbed my  usual serenity of mind. My faith was plighted  irrevocably to Kate Blake. I was in honor bound to redeem my pledge. But I was not blind to the fact that Kate was becoming an object of indifference to me.  I thought less often of her than of Miss Willis. I will not pretend to say how far my aspirations to the regard of Miss Willis might have been carried had I been free from engagement to Kate. This engagement barred all approach in that direction; and as I endeavored to dismiss the matter from my mind, I drew a little wretched comfort from the conclusion I forced upon myself that Miss Willis cared not a straw for me. Yet there was a lingering impression, in spite of all my forced arguments to the contrary, that I was to her not really an object of indifference.   MYSELF.          243 Love has no deadlier bane than active business, requir- ing the attention of the mind; and I soon found the "arduous duties of the office, coupled with the excitement attending the Sims case, had the effect to gradually drive such thoughts from me. Mr. Willis said but little in regard to the case of Sims; but I perceived that he felt deeply what he did not care openly to express. On the other hand, Mr. Hall was emphatic in his expression of opinion that it was the duty and to the interest of the city that the fugitive should be returned. "We must show the South," said he, "that we mean to maintain our part of the compact." Ned Whiting fully coincided with the opinion of Mr. Hall, while Littlegood found fault with the proceedings, and the fugitive act, because the latter was not what Mr. Webster would have wished. Yet, like Webster, he ac- quiesced. - I adopted the conduct of Mr. Willis for my own; but my silence resulted from no absence of thought over the strange and unnatural transaction. The morality and humanity of the fugitive act were maintained by no one. All alike agreed that it was harsh and cruel; but the friends of enforcement pleaded the constitutional ob- ligation, and maintained the strict legality of the act. Both these points were subjects of study by me. I will not here state at length the conviction at which I arrived. I will only say that while I leaned to the side of consti- tutional obligation, which was plain enough, I looked' upon the statute as not only barbarous and vindictive in the extreme, but as clearly violating the fundamental law which declares that no person shall be deprived of his liberty without due process of law. The fugitive act did not afford that "due process." During the month of May, I was admitted with honor to the bar. Ned Whiting, who as a student was six months my senior, had not yet fully prepared himself for examination. If he felt chagrined at my success, he ex- pressed it good-naturedly. "So much," he remarked, with his accustomed humor, "for dallying with Mis-application. If I had consumed less space in the Courier, and more of Coke and midnight   244         MYSELF. oil, you might have been a Head in one sense but not ahead in the other." Then he looked up to me with one of those good- humored but meaning expressions which were sometimes noticeable in him, and added, "Who was it that said Legacy is better than Law, or did nobody say it? By George! I wish that crotchet had never found its way into my noddle." "'Lord Chancellor Talbot," suggested I, "remarked that Parts and Poverty are all that is necessary to a law- student. " "Very well, I've the poverty--in the parts," replied Ned, dryly. Notwithstanding Ned's plainly-manifested mortification, none were more sincere than he in congratulating me upon my good fortune. In consequence of the event a small supper was arranged at Parker's by Mr. Willis, and a number of select friends -members of the bar, students, and others-were invited. There had been a raw east wind during the afternoon, and the guests congregated at the hotel shivering and com- plaining as if it were midwinter. "These abominable east winds!" exclaimed Ned, com- ing in with a rush and creeping as close to the grate as possible. "They sting like a myriad of mosquitoes." "There is quite an edge to them, it must be confessed," remarked Littlegood, whose thin raiment bore evidence that he spoke feelingly. "Age?" replied Ned, twisting the word slightly in pronunciation. "They've got their biting teeth, that's certain." "How old do you consider them, Whiting?" asked Mr. Hall, who noticed the twist he had given Littlegood's remark.  "Old enough to possess an ancient and fish-like smell as they come in over the docks." "We have the authority of the Bible as to their age," said a student by the name of Brown, whom, in conse- quence of his tendency to obesity, we had named "( Brown Stout."  "We are told that in the days of the prophets the asses snuffed the east wind.".    MYSELF.         245 "Confounded asses they were then!" ejaculated Ned. "As big as the snuffing old grannies up at the State House. " "What now?" asked Littlegood. "Oh, those canting Long-heels," was the reply. "Who are they you call Long-heels?" demanded Brown, whose sympathy leaned strongly to the parties that had but a few days previously elevated Charles Sumner to the United States Senate. "Who? Why, your Sumnerites." "The Sumnerites are the lights of Massachusetts," re- torted Brown. "Are they?" And Ned's countenance curled with a sneer. "I only wish, then, they were where our gaslights are-attached to a lamp-post." "Perhaps you would like to attach 'em there?" replied Brown. "Thank you, I'm no sheriff, and don't serve attach- ments," said Ned. "But I assure you such an arrange- ment would be an improvement on gas. They would shine like rotten mackerel." "Tut, tut, Whiting," interrupted Mr. Hall. "You are getting too severe. Has Sumner's election soured your stomach?" "Wait till supper is announced and see." "You don't like the coalitionists?" suggested Brown. "I liken them, though," said Ned, punching the coals. "And what do you liken them to?" "To Cromwell's coins--which had God and the Com- monwealth on. opposite sides." "Hume!" ejaculated Littlegood. Ned cast his eyes over to Littlegood's seat, and then deliberately rising and going to him and drawing a hand- ful of coin from his pocket, said, "I'll bet you two dollars you're mistaken." Littlegood turned-off with a grim smile. It was the only bit of humor I had yet known him to indulge in. At this point supper was announced. Mr. Willis presided at the table. The absence of wines and all intoxicating drinks was early remarked, and led 2I*   246         AMYSELZ. Ned to suggest that when the time came for the " feast of reason and flow of soul," the party would have to draw their inspiration with something besides a corkscrew. Mr. Willis opened this part of the entertainment with an address so excellent that I have endeavored to reproduce it here. He alluded to my successful course of study and flattering admission to the bar, w'elcomed me to the pro- fession, and then proceeded to lay down certain rules of action for my guidance.  "In entering upon the law," said he, "let me urge you to resolve to pursue none but an upright course. Stoop to no petty arts. Solicit meanly no retainer. Encourage no litigation that you may gain a fee. Do not refuse to engage in a case because you may think it bad. In so doing you assume the office of judge without pos- sessing the power of the judge to know the whole truth. The justice or injustice of a case is to be decided by others, not you. Consider what is the purpose of justice-that every man may have his cause tried by a jury of men ap- pointed for that purpose. A lawyer is not to tell what he knows to be a lie; he is not to produce what he knows to be a false deed or affidavit; nor is he to usurp the province of the jury and the judge and determine- what shall be the effect of evidence and the result 6f argument. "Let all the advantages you shall ever take be the ad- vantages of your legal knowledge and skill in eliciting evidence and in addressing juries and the bench. To such advantages you are justly entitled. Sidney Smith has well said that it is the decided duty of an advocate to use all the arguments in his power in defending the cause he has adopted, and to leave the effects of those arguments to the judgment of others. "In your examination of witnesses, aim to be courte- ous. Better make them friendly advances, putting them in good humor with themselves and with you, and then in an unguarded moment draw out the admission you wish. Browheating, or -as we Americans call it, badgering, a witness, has not always the desired effect, and not unfre- quently recoils on one's own head. It is a sort of sparring which the witness has the best of nearly as often as the lawyer.   Af YSELF.         247 "In addressing juries, be your own judge of style. The best advice is, be yourself. Never attempt to bully a jury, for they have an excellent chance to repay you much to your damage. Always be affable and pleasant-spoken. Use reason and persuasion rather than threats and menaces. Aim to be simple. Avoid diffuseness. Remember that jurors are plain men; therefore adapt your language to their understanding. Use few figures of speech, and let those few be easy of application and readily understood. "Enforce no point unless you are certain in regard to it. Men gain less in attempting that which they do not know, than by confining themselves to what they clearly understand. If you would be brilliant, let your sparks be more like those that fly from under the blacksmith's ham- mer, and less like those from the rocket thrown up for display. "In your colorings to a jury, do not descend so as to convey a lie or deception. Coloring may be profitable; but in the vocabulary of truth its definition is falsehood. "Lawyers have been censured, while in criminal prac- tice, of availing themselves of mere technicalities to secure the escape of rogues justly deserving of punishment. I do not think they are justly open to censure. The law presumes every man to be innocent till he is proven guilty. He is entitled to all the shields of the law. Technicality is legitimately one of those shields. It preserves to the law a uniformity, and without uniformity the law would be a science merely in name. " Avoid the charge of appearing like one whose soul is in his fee; one who will not swear to an untruth to get himself into trouble, but who will assert one by the hour to get another in trouble if he finds it in his retainer, or thinks it necessary to his reputation as a successful law- yer. Coleridge thought the lawye to be placed in a posi- tion unfavorable to his moral being; that legal studies and practice, like the grinding-stone, narrow while they sharpen. I am disposed to a more charitable construc- tion. I commend to you the remarks of Bishop Sander- son: 'Think not because you speak for your fee, your tongue is not your own,-that you must speak what your client would have you speak, whether true or false. Seek   248         MYSELF. not preposterously to win the name of a good lawyer by perverting good laws. Count it not, as Protagoras did, the glory of your profession, by subtlety of wit and volu- bility of tongue, to make the worse appear the better; but, like a good man as well as a good orator, use the power of your tongue and wit to shame impudence and protect innocence, to succor the afflicted, to advance justice and equity, and to secure the triumph of the right.' "Be slow to apply the law in your own behalf. A dis- tinguished lawyer once said that if a man claimed the coat on his back he should have it, lest in going to law to de- fend it he should lose his waistcoat likewise. There is a good Italian proverb on this point,-' A lean agreement is better than a fat judgment.'" My response was remarkable for nothing to recommend its reproduction here. It was that of a novitiate, em- barrassed with his new honors and position. Neverthe- less, when I resumed my seat the tables rang as though I had said something worthy of applause, but Ned Whit- ing suggested that it was because I had come to a con- clusion. A speech from Mr. Hall followed mine, and then came sentiments and witticisms from the younger portion, who i had carefully bottled them up forthe occasion, and doubt- less intended to pop them off along with the cracking of the champagne. Ned Whiting was remarkably quiet during those displays of what he termed 1" cheap pyrotechnics," and there was- no little wonder at his unusual taciturnity. Brown had the temerity to remark that Ned's was doubtless cork- screw wit. ' There is little need of corkscrews," replied Ned, "when we have Brown Stout that uncorks itself, and pours in one weak, washy, everlasting flood. "My gravity, Mr. President;" continued Ned, rising, {" proceeds from the knowledge that I have a disagreeable duty to perform here, and not from any want of interest, in these proceedings. It is known to many that our friend, whose admittance to the bar we are now celebrat- ing, was several months my junior as a student. It is needless, sir, to say that his rapid progress, outstripping   M YSE'LF.         249 my own, has been to me a source of mortification. I know, sir, that the highest eminences are alike accessible to the reptile and the eagle. Who in this case has been the reptile and who the eagle I'll not pretend to say. I repeat it, sir, that this occurrence has been to me a source of mortification and chagrin; and I have endeavored, with the limited time afforded me, to examine into the causes of it." The gravity of Ned's countenance, his measured, earn- est tone, scattered consternation among those of his listeners who did not know him. Even those who did know him began to have doubts as to what was coming. Ned continued,- 'I am sorry to say that my examination has led to the unwelcome conviction that our mutual friend has practiced upon the confidence and credulity of his acquaintances. I will not charge collusion in his examination; but was it superficial or otherwise? Gentlemen will pardon me. I know I have eaten his salt,-and would have drunk his beer if he had provided it." (Much laughter.) "But I must do my duty to my fellow-citizens, and if this new acquisition to the bar is an unworthy one, who shall condemn me for exposing him? I have expressed a dissatisfaction with his examination; and here, gen- tleinen, I purpose to re-examine him, and allow you to judge." The merry twinkle which then illumined the eye of Ned, revealed to the party the secret of this harangue. "Hurrah!" shouted the younger portion of the com- pany. "Stand up, Head!" "Another course of sprouts " cried Brown. "Put him through!' "Is this fair, gentlemen?"I remonstrated. "Oh, yes!" they all cried. "( Go on, Ned, go on!" "I shall go on," said he, "and I trust, gentlemen, when I have concluded you will be able to testify to my impartiality and the performance of my duty, my whole duty, and nothing but my duty." Resistance on my part was useless, and I submitted to Ned's infliction with all the grace that I could command. All the questions that he propounded, and the manner of   250         MYSELF. my answering, would be uninteresting here. I shall give but a few examples. The first question was,- "-What relation does an attorney sustain to a barrister? This question," added Ned,!" relates more to the English than the American law; but a good student should be able to answer." "The relationship," I replied, mustering all thephilos- ophy I could command, "depends much on the degrees of consanguinity between the two." "Very evasive and lawyer-like," said he; "' but if there be no consanguinity?" "The chances are that in such a case there will be no relationship." "Pshaw!" exclaimed Ned. "The fellow has evidently been a cousining all his days; but he sha'n't cozen me. To reduce the matter to your understanding, sir, I mean by relation affinity, analogy, approximation, connection, comparison, similarity, resemblance, similitude, but not family connection, ties of blood, kinship, paternity, ma- ternity, brotherhood, sisterhood, nor cousinhood." "In that case, then," said I, " the attorney sustains the same relation to a barrister that an apothecary does to a doctor, though neither of them deal much in scruples, and both somewhat in drams."  "Bravo!" cried the company, and the rattling of the tables attested the satisfaction at my answer. The ques- ' tions ran on a space, and then came this,- "What is a tresne process?" "The process you are putting me through. I can't con- ceive one meaner.' "Well done!" cried Ned, as the tables rattled again. "You progress well, very well. Pray tell me, on the heels of that, which you prefer, Coke-Lyttleton or a little ton of coke?" "That depends on the state of the weather," I replied. "For a summer's day, give me Coke-Lyttleton, but for such a day as this, I should prefer a little ton of coke." "Sensible if not professional. Please define the word Fee. " "Fee," said I, recollecting that I had seen something like this in the Comic Blackstone, ' is derived from feud,   MYSELF.          25  which signifies a row, because fees, which arise from pro- ceedings at law, are the result of a squabble." "S That is very well answered," said Mr. Willis, with a nod of satisfaction to Mr. Hall. "It is so nearly true it is really good." "What is a fee simple?" asked Ned. "It is the fee of a simpleton going to law for damages to his character." "If that's so," remarked Brown, " it will be a comfort to Whiting to know that he never will have to pay any fee simple for protection to his character-professional char- acter I mean." "It is fortunate," said Ned, "that you qualified the assertion as you did. It relieves me from saying any- thing more disagreeable than that you will never be in receipt of a fee simple for the protection of another's character." Then turning to me, he continued: "Pray tell me what difference it would make in an insurance policy if a house be burned up or burned down?" "In the one case," said I, " the insurance would be paid up, in the other it would probably be paid down." "Can a man marry his widow's sister?" "Not unless there are marriages in heaven, for if he goes to the other place the d-1 will have him." This created more laughter. When it subsided, Ned asked,- "Can a man be sued for trespass who sails a balloon over another man's land?" "I wish you to understand," said I, " that a man can be sued for anything. The power to sue is an indefinite article, very indefinite, belonging to the law." "'Rah! 'rah!" shouted Brown above the ringing of the tables. "He has you there, Whiting." "Take him off. He's got enough," cried another student who had been practicing the "manly art of self- defense" at the academy of Belcher Kay. Ned had exhausted his stock of questions, and was at a loss how to proceed. If he stopped here, he must confess himself beaten. So he resorted to the stereotyped slang question of the day:   2S2         MYSELF. "What is the price of putty?" It was a most unfortunate question for him, for his chap- fallen countenance at once suggested my answer; but Mr. Hall was before me. "That is very easy," said he. C I should say putty, like the whiting it's made of, is flat." "Yes, sir," rejoined Ned, sinking back in his chair, "I own up-very flat. Dead beat. The wine is on me." And Ned persisted in ordering in the champagne. Brown suggested punch. Ned added punch to his order. For a few moments nothing was heard but the popping of corks. Presently a colored waiter made his appearance bearing a huge bowl of Brown's favorite'beverage, and received the plaudits of that individual, who insisted that he was the man for him, and then very patronizingly inquired his name and the health of his " numerous family." The colored gentleman was evidently flattered. He assured Brown that his family was well and that he de- lighted in the patronymic of Drum; and that he was christened in honor of the father of American Democ- racy. "Thomas Jefferson--eh? A good name," said Brown. "Here's a quarter for you." , Ned Whiting sprang to his feet. "Hold on!" said he, taking the quarter from the hand of Brown and conveying it to his own pocket. "We have a character here, gentle- men. Your name is Thomas Jefferson Drum?" to the negro. "Yes, sar," replied that individual, bowing and try- ing to smile, though his eye followed dubiously the direction of the bit of silver which had disappeared from his gaze.\ "Did you make this punch?" asked Ned. "All but -the 'gredients, sar. De barkeeper did dat. I put in de sugar and lemon and stirred 'im." "I knew it was you. Gentlemen, I propose a toast in honor of the only living relative of the ' dusky Moor'-the 'spirit-stirring Drum.' " And then Ned withdrew his hand from his pocket with a Mexican dollar in his fingers. "Here, sable relative of   MYSELF.          253 Othello, I outhid yon sordid huckster, three to one. Take it and remember to be virtuous and you will be happy. May your occupation never be gone!" The African, much delighted, departed amid the plaudits of the younger portion of the company, while Brown coolly called for the return of his quarter. Cigars were ordered in, and the company fell into a desultory conversation, in which the older portion bore the more prominent part, the younger ones contenting themselves with the enjoyment of their wine and weeds, and a little by-play, mostly in pantomime. Several anecdotes were related of curious old laws. Mr. Willis mentioned one spoken of by John Adams in his Diary as existing in early times in Philadelphia. The prevalent idea that oysters are unhealthful in months with- out an r was embodied in a law which directed that all those offered for sale during such months should be seized and given ta the poor! Littlegood mentioned an English law, amended and sent out by Parliament, in which the penalty had been altered from the payment of a fine to fourteen years trans- portationj with the further provision that one-half thereof should go to the king and the other half should go to the informer; a very pleasant alteration, doubtless--to the offender. Mr. Hall related the famous case of Bullam vs. Boatem. It was a cross-suit between two men, owners of a bull and boat. The owner of the boat left it moored to the shore by a band made of twisted hay. During his absence a bull came down and was attracted into the boat by some turnips lying in the bottom. After finishing the turnips, by way of dessert he ate off the hay-band. The boat thus loosened floated away and went over the falls and both were destroyed. The owner of the boat sued the owner of the bull for running away his property, while the owner of the bull sued the owner of the boat for running away his property. "A good illustration of men who go to law for damages and get 'em," remarked Ned Whiting. One of the guests mentioned a case reported in Wash 22   254         MYSELF, burne's Judicial History of Massachusetts, where a jury failed to agree through the obstinacy of one man. The Attorney-General took that man out and endeavored to reason him into compliance, but without avail. The court had in the mean time adjourned and ordered the jury to seal up their verdict and hand it in at the next term. Finding the refractory juror could not be per- suaded into an agreement, the Attorney-General fed the eleven and starved the other until he came in. "The verdict was set aside," said Mr. Hall. "Yes," replied the other; " but not on that account." "Alfred the Great hanged one of his judges for nearly a similar act," said Mr. Willis. "A man was on trial and three of the jury stood out against conviction. The three were removed by the judge, and three others put in their places, by which means the prisoner was convicted and lost his life. Alfred adjudged it a case of murder, and the judge suffered the penalty accordingly." The conversation turned on " law language," its crudi- ties and absurdities. Littlegood gave a jargon of English, French, and Latin from an English judge during the reign of James I. and Charles I. It was directed to a grand jury, who were instructed to inquire II de eeux que voila purtraiture le picture del Dieu 'Isemble al un homme one gray beard; car ceo est un damnable offense, il n'est d'etre measures. Heaven is his throne and earth his footstool, etpur ceo ils que voile, undertake de measure. Dieu doyent rmento, higher than the heavens, cujus mensura (commene un dit) est altior cxlo, latior terra, et profundior mare." He informed another grand jury, "Carjeo dyepur leur, amend- ment, ils seaut semblable als vipers laboring pur eat out the bowels del terre, which brings them forth. De Jesuits leur positions sont damnable. Le Pope a deposer Royes ceo est le badge, et taken del anti-Christ. Doyes etre, care- ful a discoverer eux. Receivers of stolen goods are semblable a les horse-leeches, which still cry, 'Bring! Bring!' " Mr. Hall gave a case of metaphor by Sir Richard Dallas, junior counsel fdo-Warren Hastings, who said, "Now we are advancing from the starlight of circumstantial evidence to the daylight of discovery; the sun of certainty has melted   MYSELF.          255 the darkness, and we have arrived at the facts admitted by both parties." Littlegood mentioned another metaphorical lawyer, who said of a mooted question, "It hath been a point that both long walked in Westminster Hall." Judge R--  said the questions propounded by Whiting to me reminded him of a law term that sadly puzzled a good physician,--what is meant by " docking an entail?" "I don't wonder," replied his friend, the lawyer, "for it is doing what your profession never consent to-it is suf- fering a recovery." Mr. Willis related that when Sir Thomas More was at Bruges he was challenged to a public discussion by a learned doctor on any subject he might name. Sir Thomas accepted and proposed this: "Whether beasts taken in withernam can be replevied." Mr. Willis also referred- to the question mentioned by Roscoe, "Whether besides the real being of actual being; there is any other being necessary to cause a being to be." This closed the table-talk. Mr. Willis rose and stated that as he had seen his student safely through two exami- nations he thought he could now trust him to himself, and it being late he begged to retire. He and Mr. Hall passed down the tables with the company standing, and many others prepared to follow. Brown, upon whom the punch had taken visible effect, raised his glass as Mr. Willis passed out, and in rather maudlin accents said,- "Jepthah, Judge of Israel, had one fair daugh(hic)ter. Boys, I pro-pose the he(hic)health of Miss Willis!" The eyes of Ned Whiting flew across the table. Had they been bullets, Brown would have been killed. "You may toast her as much as you please," he retorted, with a sneer, " but you'll never make her Brown!" After the elder portion of the company had retired, a discussion arose whether the balance should follow their example or remain and make a night of it. Brown and one or two others favored the latter, while Ned Whiting declared his mother "didn't know he was out," and he wouldn't make a beast of himself just to torment her. He   256         M'YSELF. was going home, and if the rest wanted to remain and take a wheelbarrow conveyance they might. Thereupon it was decided that one of the students, who possessed a fine voice, should sing a song, after which they would. break up. The student, who was somewhat in the con- dition of Brown, gave a Chinese love song, with drunken effect, commencing,- "Oh, daughter of the great Ching-Chum, Whose -eyes like Kasian diamonds glow." The chorus was a confused medley of Chinese names, and all joined in, but Brown could never get beyond the end of the first line, and broke in at all points with the "gr-hic-eat Ching-Chum,-Ch-hic-ing-Chum!"And as, the party separated and wended their way homeward, he was heard going down the Court muttering, "Ching- Chum, Ch-ic-ing-Chum!" Ned Whiting retorted with, "Ching-Brown, Ch-hic-ing-Brown," imitating his hic- coughs with great exactness. The principles of total abstinence had been early iri- stilled into my mind, and I refrained from any indulgence during the evening, which led Whiting to remark as we got well out to the street,--Ned was slightly mellow, just a little touched,-that if Coroner Pratt ever sat on me the verdict wouldn't be "Rum did it," nor "Died from punch on the Head." I returned to my lodgings to reflect, not wholly with- out emotion, on the change in my condition and pros- pects within the past few years. Six years before I was a cast-off country-boy, without prospects, with no definite plan of action before me,-nothing but a vast, dark, blank space into which I was to plunge and grope my way to weal or to woe. I might have had genius, intellect, inven- tion, but I was ignorant of it. All of these could scarcely have aided me in this extremity. But-I had courage, and courage carried me onward till accident or a benign Provi- dence placed me in the road to my present position. I never believed that situation was the result of accident. How came Mr. Willis to call me to his office to inquire after a woman he never found, and never afterwards tried to find? What was there in my appearance at that inter-   MYSELF.          257 view to cause a stranger to take me into his office and treat me as I had been treated? Absolutely nothing. It was very true that Mr. Willis had an odd fancy, and did things which appeared strange to the world. It was like- wise very true that my egotism led me to think that I had displayed much quickness and ability as a law-student. But all this did not satisfy me that Mr. Willis's kindness was purely accidental.   L Whatever of mystery attended the matter, the contem- plation of it at this time was swallowed up in thoughts of what I had been and what I was likely to become. How had I been astounded, six years before, if told that I was to become a lawyer within the time I had! There had ever been within me a secret, burning desire to dis- tinguish myself above the companions of my boyhood; but in all my dreams and hopes I dreamed and hoped for nothing like this. I never thought of reaching the dig- nity of a learned profession. Mr. Willis had opened a new world to me, and gave my whole life a new direction. The secret fire burned with a fierceness still greater than ever. Brighter visions of the future greeted my inward sight. Loftier themes of contemplation occupied my mind. New ideas of life and what constituted true manhood broke in upon me. What wonder, then, that having read of self-made men,--of Franklin and Sherman; of Blackstone, whom I had stu- died, the son of a linen draper; of Henry Kirke White, for whom I was named, a butcher's boy; and hosts of others,-that I grasped with a strong hold the opportunity offered, determined that it should not evade me? Long nights I had spent in mastering knotty points of law, and wading through the hosts of legal authorities. Hours that others gave to the drowsy god or to revel and amusement, were spent by me in sounding the depths and unraveling the mysteries of my future profession. The secret repining for my home; for the mother that had clung to me, if not for the father who had cast me off; for the society of the fair being who plighted me her faith, had been driven out by the new passion that had taken possession of my soul. I now felt that I had mas- tered nearly all the difficulties in my path to competence 22*   258         MYSELF. and distinction. Men of ability, men- holding high posi- tions in social, professional, and political life, seemed pleased to take him by the hand and congratulate and en- courage him, who two years previously had been reviled as a table-waiter by clerkly upstarts, and by brainless fops 1 and hotel-spongers. Notwithstanding these pleasant reflections, I lay turning on my cot as ill at ease as ever. The object for which I left my native town (means wherewith to enforce my claim for the hand of Kate Blake) was gained. I might return on the morrow and find no obstacles placed in my way by her father. But, alas! the contemplation of such an act was distasteful. My heart was filled with more ambitious desires than simply to wed the daughter of a country farmer. These desires led me to revolt at such a union, holding out to my view a prize like Miss Willis, not wholly beyond my grasp. The empire which Kate Blake had maintained over my heart was no more. I was not now the rustic youth charmed with her simple grace and beauty. I was changed, and to please me, she, too, must have changed; but had she? I did not know. Probably not as much as I. Where were the accomplishments to make her a fit person to introduce to my present female acquaintances? How every one would smile at the "talented Mr. Head" and his " country wife!"The idea was chilling. Thus did I feel as I lay, turning restlessly, and heard the Park Street clock toll the hours of one, two, and three. I had achieved all that the most ardent could desire. A bright future was open before me, save that my faith was plighted to a poor country-girl, and my heart leaned toward a beautiful and accomplished city heiress. How truly did Miss Willis say the heart is guilty of strange freaks! As I thought of her, how mine swelled and throbbed, even while my conscience warned me against proving false to Kate! Conscience seemed to tell me that my honor was being tampered with, and a form rose up in my imagination and a voice whispered,--" 'Better a youth to fortune and to fame unknown' than to win dis- tinction in the city at the expense of honor and self- respect.' !    MYSELF,          259 Though in this conflict between passion and principle, I leaned towards the latter, I could not prevent a half- breathed wish that Kate Blake might prove false to me. Oh, that she had forgotten me, that she had married some honest, enterprising farmer; or some country clergyman; or some doctor,-at any rate, some good, cajoling, smooth- spoken soul, and had settled down a faithful wife and lov- ing mother! In my generosity, I was willing to allow her the finest flaxen-haired boy, or the prettiest blue-eyed girl that ever clung to mother's apron. If this could only be, all my obligations to her would be null, and I would be free to become-the slave of another. But this illusion quickly vanished. I knew Kate Blake too well. She still remained as true to me as the day we parted. I was the star towards which the needle of her affections ever pointed. To rid myself of her, therefore, I must turn a villain. She had remained steadfast to me when my position was the inferior one. Could I desert her, now that my position was the superior? 1 dared not decide in the affirmative; and something prevented a de- cision in the negative. Two years were still to elapse before our appointed meeting. I would therefore pluck the last hair from the tail of procrastination before enter- ing on my final resolve. Micawher-like, I would wait for something to "turn up." Thus philosophically de- ciding, I turned my face to the wall and resolutely set about wooing the embraces of the drowsy god, who seemed fully determined to desert my couch.   a6o         MYSELF. CHAPTER   XXVI. How I spent a Half-Day at Brookline. DURING the summer that followed my admittance to the  bar, the firm of Willis & Hall was so changed that I was  admitted to a partnership. Mr. Willis spent little of his time at the office. He had retired almost wholly from active life, only giving directions to his business agent in the management of his property. I began to ascertain what I had long surmised, that he was inclined to misanthropy, which affected him at periods quite severely. At such times he absented himself wholly from society, shut himself up at his country or city resi- dence, and refused communication with every one save his daughter. He had suffered wretchedly from one of these attacks the present season, and for that reason I had not yet visited his country-seat, whither he had retired. I was therefore agreeably surprised one morning by a visit from Ned Whiting, who said,- "I am the bearer of a message to you and Mr. Ander- son, from Miss Willis, inviting us all out to Brookline to spend the afternoon. Bell went out yesterday, along with a lively minx, Miss Lucy Pike. She insists that I shall be very fond of Pike, but I reply nothing like the fondness, I have for sardines." I looked at my business journal to ascertain my engage-  ments. "It is to be nothing but a family affair-just four and  two more-and so all the more interesting," Ned con-  tinued. "If you have never been out there, you have no idea what a cosy, home-like place it is. Miss Willis is a floriculturist, loves pigs and chickens, keeps a couple of domesticated deer, though not half so dear as their mis- tress, and has all manner of pleasant objects about her that will please you. She practices shooting, romps about the fields like a school-girl, digs in the garden, and almost   MYSELF.         26  goes to market with her butter and eggs. Bell never visits her but she returns a Bell in bronze,-hands blistered, face freckled, and a country chap on each lip." I found nothing sufficient to prevent me from accepting, and at three o'clock, in company with Ned and Ander- son, I was. en route for Brookline. We found the young ladies on the lawn practicing archery. "I have brought you a couple of additional beaus," said Ned, as we joined them, scarcely waiting for our in- troduction to Miss Pike, who was apetite young lady, lively, and as full of chirrups as a cricket. "I'm afraid you'll find them poor sticks, easier broken than bent." "How many strings have they?" asked Miss Pike. "We do not like those which have too many, you know." "None," replied Ned; "none,-though the State, possibly, may have one in process of manufacture for each.  "Come, come, Ned," exclaimed his sister, "just bid adieu to your nonsense for the present. You interrupt our sports Besides, you treat your friends unkindly with such remarks." "You must know," said Miss Pike, "that we are shoot- ing on a wager. The poorest shot-that's what you call it, don't you, girls?-is to kiss one of the gentlemen." "Please let me hold the stakes," suggested Ned, eagerly. "I promise, Bell, in that case, not to utter another joke to-day." "We'll put you on your good behavior first," replied Bell; and the ladies prepared for trial. Miss Willis, who had exchanged a few words with An- derson during this bantering colloquy, made the first trial. She stepped to her position, drew the bow with a firm hand, and sent the arrow with a sharp twang across the lawn to the center of the target. Ned, who had watched her with much interest, turned on his heel, and, in a low voice, remarked to me,- "I'll sell my chance now for a kiss cheap. Who bids? Going, going, gone!" This expression of his preference nettled me; but Ned had turned back again, and, clasping his hands in theatri- cal style, exclaimed,-   262          f SE LF. "Ye gods!  Cupid never winged a more unerring dart! I feel as if I had been hit in the bull's-eye, too." "Likelier in the calf's head," was the slightly con- temptuous but quick retort of his sister. An explosion of laughter followed the severe cut, and /Ned fell into the background.  Although Miss Pike endeavored to restrain herself, turning away even to hide her face, she laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks. Bell Whiting's arrow grazed the edge of the target. It was now Miss Pike's turn, but she had exhausted her strength in her efforts to restrain her laughter, and her arrow dropped to the ground half the distance to the target. "Oh, dear! I've lost'!" she exclaimed,!"and it was all owing to you, Bell."  "You know the forfeit," suggested Miss Willis, with a merry twinkle to her eye. Oh, of course,--and I'll pay it, too." And she stepped lightly to my side. "If you please, Mr. Head." And as I stooped she-no matter, please imagine what followed. Did my eyes deceive me? I thought I saw a shade of disappointment shoot across the face of Miss Willis. I must have been mistaken, for a second look revealed her countenance radiant with smiles. "The gentlemen will now make a trial," said she. "On the same conditions?" asked Ned, quickly. "Oh, of course," replied Miss Pike. {' Take the bow, then, Anderson," cried he. "I have set my heart on a kiss, and will stand the hazard of a shot -and never say 'die,' as Shakspeare did." Anderson's arrow struck close beside Bell's, on the outer edge of the target. "Ominous!" exclaimed Miss Pike, clapping her hands. IWhat do you mean?" asked Ned.   ' I knew well that Head and I are to be brothers, in law, but,"--turning to Anderson,--" et tu Brute? Come, Head, you are next. I am anxious to reap the fruits of this adventure." Although I had practiced archery with Kate Blake in my youth, and was then quite an expert, my arrow flew wide.   MYSELF.          263 "I can make a poorer shot than that," said Ned, taking his position. "Prepare for the forfeit, ladies." "Shoot!" -was the reply. He drew the bow, and a howl of pain followed the twang of the string. The arrow flew off at an angle of twenty degrees; the bow dropped to the ground; and Ned industriously squeezed his fingers between his knees, and made grimaces that would have been a fortune to any comic actor. "The forfeit! Recollect the forfeit " said Bell, laugh- ing, and pulling him by the coat-tail. "Go 'way!" was the spiteful reply of Ned, kicking out behind at her. "The kiss!" ejaculated Bell. "The kiss be hanged! I'll bite you if you don't go away!" This was too much for Miss Pike. She sank down on the grass, screaming with delight, while all of us joined in the chorus, Ned playing double bass with his howling. At this point Mr. Willis appeared in the door-way of the house. "We have waked Mr. Willis with our noise," said Miss Pike, "and I should not blame him for scolding." I had refrained from inquiring of Miss Willis of her father, for I had an inkling of his condition; and I per- ceived by her manner that she was not at ease on that point. His appearance at the door was the signal for us to repair to the house. We found him with one leg band- aged, apparently suffering from the gout. I observed a sharp glance of inquiry from Miss Willis, but she gained no information from my countenance, though I detected the artifice. The gout was of the mind, not of the body. We received a kind welcome from Mr. Willis, who re- marked as he shook my hand,- "You have not been neighborly, Mr. Head." "Business," said I. "True." And he suffered me to pass. A few moments were spent in conversation, Mr. Willis supporting his bandaged leg on an ottoman raised nearly to a level with his body; and then a servant brought in   264         MYSELF. ices and fruit. While engaged in discussing them, Mr. Willis said,- "I was thinking when I saw you practicing on the lawn, it was a good opportunity to shoot those fugitive rabbits that destroyed the cauliflowers." "Oh, yes," replied Bell; "we have agreed to try a shot at them." "With bows?"I inquired. "With shot-guns, beaus in attendance. We are marks- men with all kinds of weapons." "There's a bull!" cried Ned. "You marksmen /' "Yes," was her quick reply,-" markswomen I You are neither of the one nor the other." Mr. Willis was amused at the retort. "Mr. Whiting will find a lady's tongue pretty pointed," said he. "I don't care how pointed it is," replied Ned, "so it isn't pointed at me." I saw a flush of pleasure suffuse Miss Willis's cheek at the effect of these sallies upon her father. Her gravity relaxed, and for a half-hour a light wordy war ensued,- a sham-fight with tongues that caused much merriment. Ned Whiting entered the lists with all the confidence and prowess of an old soldier, who had more than once "killed his man" in like encounters; but found himself hors de combat at the close from the keen shafts of Miss Willis. But though beaten, he was not conquered. A couple of fowling-pieces were produced, and the young ladies resumed their hats. Miss Willis took one of the pieces to the green and loaded it, while Ander- son loaded the other, Bell Whiting having protested that she was not so far advanced in her sporting education as that. There was a grove of oaks in the rear of the kitchen garden, extending back quite a distance, and ending in a still larger grove of pines. A number of rabbits originally domesticated had escaped from Miss Willis and taken refuge in these woods, and from there sallied out to prey upon the vegetables. With the guns loaded, we started in pursuit of the de- predators, "carrying," said Ned, " the warren to Africa. "   MYSELF.          265 And Africa to the war," he added, as he saw a colored domestic preparing to follow us, to take home our game. Anderson and Bell Whiting led the way, taking one of the guns. Ned Whiting requested the privilege of carrying the other, which was in the'hands of Miss Willis. "Do not allow him!" cried Bell. "He will surely fall down and shoot himself with it." "Oh, bother!" cried Ned. "I'm not a goose to make game of myself. "And I saw him take the piece and urge Miss Willis along beside him. Nothing was left for me but to fall in beside Miss Pike. Under other circumstances she might have been an acceptable companion. She was sprightly, talkative, and withal at times quite sensible. We lingered some distance in the rear, remarking the fine taste displayed in laying oot Mr. Willis's grounds, and com- menting upon the singular character of Miss Willis, who chose floriculture and domestic enjoyments rather than the fashionable haunts of Saratoga and the seaside. Miss Pike dived without hesitation into the merits of all the party. "How sedate Mr. Anderson is! I think he must have an excellent disposition." "Very excellent," I replied. "Isn't he a little partial to Bell? I have been rallying her about him, and I shouldn't be surprised if she had a tender spot in her heart for him. She always blushes when I touch upon that subject, and begs me to be still,-just as girls always do when they are in love, you know." "Ah," said I, carelessly. "Then I will know, hence- forth, how to detect one of that character." "Yes, indeed!" she replied. "And then there are Miss Willis and Bell's brother. Don't you think there is something going on there? Miss Willis exhibits a great fondness for Bell, and they are very intimate. And Ned, somehow, finds a convenient excuse to come out here when Bell is visiting,-just to see his sister, you know." Miss Pike seemed much pleased with her conceit, but she would have pleased me better had she plucked a thorn and stuck it in my flesh. Yet I looked very innocent, and inquired,- 23   266         MYSELF. "You do not think Miss Willis cares anything for 'him?" "I don't know about that." And the little minx gave a knowing toss of the head. "I shouldn't wonder. A heart is a strange thing, you know, and clings like moss to rubbish as soon as to anything else." "Miss Willis's idea, in another garb,',' thought I. "You can't judge of Miss Willis as you can of other people," continued the little tormentor. "See how cosily they walk together yonder. Quite an engaged appearance, -don't you think so? When you see a young lady allow an arm about her waist as he has his, you may naturally think there is something that needs support. Don't you see how she listens to him? Isn't that suspicious?" Who had conjured up this little fiend in petticoats to thrust a needle into my peace, to stick me full with the burs of jealousy? It was true that Ned Whiting was pouring some tale or other into the ears of a willing listener. I felt like wish- ing the excursion, the rabbits, Miss Pike, and Ned in some much less congenial climate. It was but a moment, how- ever. A thought of what was due to my situation recalled my wandering senses. I laughed at Miss Pike's conjec- tures, and replied that I should not be surprised if the sur- mise proved true. "I'll call to them," she said; and she cried out, "a penny for the subject of your conversation." "Love, of course," cried Ned, in return. "But lawyers are not allowed to practice in Cupid's court. " "Except by consent of parties." "I object." "You're not a party." And Ned's laugh rang out clear and loud. A warning gesture from Anderson cut short the high- toned colloquy. "We are in the neighborhood of the enemy, so a truce to badinage," said Miss Pike. "But I don't see why they want to kill those poor harmless things, do you? Suppose they do spoil a cauliflower or two ; I don't believe Mr. Willis will come to want over the loss."   MYSELF.          267 "The rabbits are probably concealed in the wall or brushwood here," said Anderson, as the party arrived at the place where he and Bell were halted. "They are easily frightened, and if they get into the pines, the ladies may not care to follow them and get their dresses covered with pitch." "I hope they will, then," remarked Miss Pike. "I can't bear the thought of having the poor things killed." "Why?" asked Bell. "I should love dearly to shoot them." "A poor compliment to your womanhood, then," was the reply. "I should think you would sooner beg to have the lives of the poor things spared." Although the remonstrance made no impression on Bell, it quite staggered Miss Willis. She proposed that rather than wound the sensibilities of Miss Pike, we return to the house. "I confess it speaks badly for the supposed tenderness of the female heart to engage in the slaughter of these innocent animals. I think, Bell, we must choose an inani- mate object for our target. It is plain that Mr. Head, who has been talking with Lucy, is opposed to the expe- dition. " Again was I puzzled. Why this deference to my opinion, or to an opinion supposed to be mine? "Mr. Anderson can shoot them if he likes," continued Miss Willis; " or if he chooses to return, we will get the gardener to shoot them." "Fiddlestick!" exclaimed Bell. "How squeamish you are! Is it worse to shoot them ourselves than to get some one else to shoot them? I like to see sensibility, but there is such a thing as carrying it too far." I had never seen such indecision in Miss Willis before. At length she turned to me: r  t   "Shall we shoot or return?" "Lawyer's advise for a fee," suggested Ned. "Your father will laugh at you," interposed Bell. "And you will lose all your cauliflowers," added An- derson. "The majority appear to favor the shooting," said I. Quick at expedients, Miss Pike suggested a new course i   268         MYSELF. of action. She had heard some one say rabbits sometimes hid in walls. Perhaps we might discover and take them alive. Anderson smiled quietly, and favored the sugges- tion. "Capital!" chimed in Ned. "We can catch them this way as the fellow stole the corn, by the ears." At a hint from Anderson, unobserved by Miss Willis or Miss Pike, Bell Whiting assented to the proposition, and the company proceeded, a portion taking one side of the wall that skirted the wood and a portion the other. "Now, Ned," said Bell, warningly, "you must keep your tongue still for once, or we shall only get our labor for our pains." There was that peculiar twinkle to Ned's eye that de- noted roguery, as he replied,- "Never fear; I'll be as quiet as a greenhorn who has" and he turned to me with a comical look-"C a case in court.  For a few moments we moved along in silence. An- derson carried one gun and I the other. Simultaneously nearly the whole party espied a rabbit hop into a small pile of brushwood, from which several pairs of ears arose, denoting the presence of the objeFts of our search. A suppressed "--sh!" came from the lips of some, while Ned cried out at the top of his voice,- "Rhedwck am eich 'bywyd " * Out sprang the rabbits, darting off in various direc- tions. The report of Anderson's gun followed close after. "Oh, you great good-for-nothing!" exclaimed Bell, in a tone of vexation, to Ned. "Didn't we tell you to keep silence?" "But who the deuce supposed they were Welsh rab- bits!" cried Ned, with apparent surprise at the result of his shout. "Welsh fiddlesticks!" retorted Bell. "Why, you great simpleton! don't you know the difference between a rab- bit and a rare-bit?" - "Like a cheese!" said Ned. "Ask him," pointing to  "Run for your lives."   MYSELF.          269 me, at the same time giving me a look that said, "I told you I'd do it." "And you made Mr. Anderson shoot one of the poor things!" said Miss Pike, piling her displeasure on the top of Bell's. "No," was the response of Miss Willis. "Mr. Ander- son is a poor shot. He missed. I think Bell or I could do better." "He came within a hare of hitting," said Ned, the "riling passion" overcoming the wholesome effect of his sister's lecturing. "A miss is no better than a mile," replied Miss Willis. "I don't know about that," he rejoined. "I would rather have one miss than a dozen miles, unless it be Miss Jenny Miles, Bell's dressmaker." Anderson was reloading his piece, and as they rallied him on his poor aim, quietly replied,- "Pray don't make game of me." "Lord! there's a joke!" cried Bell. c Ned, look to your laurels." "Borrowed-from Webster's Dictionary," was Ned's reply. Anderson went on loading his gun. "I don't know how you feel about it," said he, as he concluded, "but I am going to have another pop at them." "Give me that gun, please," said Bell to me. I passed the piece to her, notwithstanding an imploring look from Miss Pike. "Take your time, Miss Lucy," she added gayly to my companion, " a rabbit is only a poor homely thing after all." The retreat of the animals had been carefully marked. They were not very shy, and only a few minutes elapsed before a second report rang out, and the smoking gun in the hands of Bell Whiting showed who had fired. "Killed!" she exclaimed, exultingly. The sport was becoming exciting. Even Miss Pike overcame her sensibility, and Miss Willis her scruples. Touched a little at Bell's success, the latter begged An- derson's gun, and approached the trunk of a fallen tree. 23*   270         MYSELF. A rabbit sprang out from beneath its top and darted off. It made scarce a dozen bounds before it fell dead from Miss Willis's aim. "I'm even with you!" cried she to Bell, and returned the gun to Anderson. The rabbits retreated towards the pines, whither they were pursued. A half-dozen of the slain were counted, and the party gave up further chase. We had wandered even beyond the pines. On returning, it was proposed to pass through them and so save distance. After pene- trating a short way the ladies found their dresses bedaubed with pitch, and Bell had hers torn by a dead branch that lay across the path. All three complained of thirst and fatigue. Anderson proposed a detour to the right into a narrow defile overhung with birches. The difficulty of passage was increased rather than diminished; but the hope of finding a spring of water prevented us from turn- ing back. * A fine opportunity was now offered for the comparison of dispositions. Anderson went forward, carefully push- ing aside the branches and beating away the blackberry- bushes, and patiently assisting the irritated Bell over the stones and fallen logs. At every step the girl gave vent to petulant exclamations, although she had discretion to utter them in an undertone. Ned followed, all gayety and-good humor, assisting Miss Willis, whose countenance was as placid, and laugh as musical, and voice as pleasant as when practicing archery on the lawn. I brought up the rear with Miss Pike. The servant had taken a direct route home with the game- and gunrs. My companion was open and incessant with her complaints. ' I declare it serves you just right i" she cried, as Bell, notwithstanding Anderson's care, stumbled and fell, and almost cried with vexation. "You shouldn't have killed those innocent creatures." "We should not have been enticed into this horrible place!" retorted Bell; "and then we should have done well enough." "And have gone through those nasty pines!" responded my companion with equal spirit. "A pretty mess our dresses- would have been in!"   MYSELF.          271 "Our dresses!" exclaimed the fallen beauty, exhibiting another rent in her own. "How much harm, I wonder, could pitch do that?"  Oh, well, never mind, sis," remarked Ned, sooth- ingly, taking hold of one of her arms, while Anderson took the other, to lift her up. "We only came here to fulfill the adage that those who touch pitch shall be de- filed." "A learned pundit, I must confess," said Miss Willis, laughing. "But we must learn to endure these little troubles, Bell, as a part of our lot. Falling is not so bad when one can be so gallantly lifted again." "But if you fall on briers, and get one into your flesh?" cried Bell, petulantly. "See; my hand is scratched quite across its back. And my dress is torn nearly off." Tears almost blinded the poor girl's eyes. "In capital trim to attend the Beggar's Opera," laughed Ned.  "Son't laugh!" cried Miss Pike. "I'm almost dying with thirst. When shall we get out of this confounded hole?" "And I can hardly stand up, I'm so weary," added Bell. "I'm not going ahead any longer." Miss Willis begged that she might lead. After a deal more of grumbling, Miss Pike and Bell were urged for- ward. The bottom of the dell was soon reached; but it was dry. There were no signs of water. This gave rise to a fresh burst of displeasure. A rod or two and we came to a place where the moisture indicated a subterranean spring. "Let us dig!" said Ned. "What! in this horrible place?" cried Bell. "What will you dig with?" "With our dig-its,-what else?" was his answer. While the conversation was going on, I turned a stone out of the ground and the water oozed into the cavity. Anderson went in search of an oak leaf to form into a drinking-cup. Ned was too thirsty to wait, and threw himself on the sod and put his mouth to the water, ex- claiming,-   272          MYSELF. "When we are in the country we must do as the coun- trymen do." "The dirty, selfish fellow!" cried Miss Pike. "How in mercy can we ladies drink that way?" "Don't make a water-butt of yourself, Ned," said Bell, whose face wore an expression of half-smile, half-gri- mace, at his figure, vexed because he dwelt so long at the fountain. Ned raised his head with an air of satisfaction, and, extended on all fours, smacked his lips. "That's a capital spring, Bell," he remarked. There was scarcely a gill of water in the hole. Bell's disappointment was at its height. "How can you call that a spring?" she cried. "How? Why, they say three swallows make a spring, and I got six. Come, sis, will you try it?" And with mock solemnity he offered to assist her down. He was answered with a slap that waked the echoes. "Take that!" cried the furious beauty. "'A Ned-defying spectacle of a sister's love, " he groaned, rubbing his cheek. "If it were from any one else I'd obey the Christian precept,-a kiss for a blow." :While this by-play was going forward, I had still further enlarged the cavity, and by the time Anderson returned with a neat cup made from the bark of a birch, the water was quite clear and in sufficient quantity to slake the thirst of all.. The ladies then sought the shade of an over- hanging tree, and threw themselves on the verdant bank for repose after their difficulties. Good humor was soon restored, and merry laughter rang out at the comments upon our recent troubles. Bell was the first to acknowledge her ill temper and apologize for it. Miss Pike was less inclined to condemn herself, but justified her frowns on account of the evil nature of the expedition. When the party started forward again, I managed to se- cure Miss Willis, and to linger in the rear. Our thoughts soon turned on other matters. "I have to beg your pardon, Mr. Head," said she, "for neglecting to invite you out to see us before. I hope you will come often enough hereafter to make amends. I   MYSELF.          273 had been happy to see you, but father has been so adverse to receiving company that I invited no one till I sent for you to-day. You will visit us often now ?" "As often as my business will allow, if-that is your wish." " Oh, yes, indeed ! for," and she spoke quite demurely, "my father's sake." " I am sorry to see him so low-spirited," said I, affect- ing not to notice her evasion. She gave me a penetrating look. I" You detected the artifice then. I knew you would. Oh, there is no weakness like that of the mind. And these fits seem to increase with his age. He is much bet- ter to-day." "Solitude is a nurse of misanthropy. You should seek to draw him away from it." " I do. I tried persuasion, but without avail. It seemed as if he would never recover again. Then I resorted to harshness. I set my will against his will. He scolded. So did I. I told him I would send for company and he should receive it. Bell had often visited me, but he studiously avoided her. She and Lucy came again yes- terday. I warned him that I should usher them into his retreat. He astonished me by hobbling out to meet us with a bandage upon his leg." "Yet the gout was mental, not physical." "Yes; but the spell was broken. The bandages will be laid aside when they are gone." " Does he converse much?" "Very little. He often refers to the period of your residence with us, and says, ' Poor fellow, he thinks prob- ably that I have forbid him any further visits, now he is well.' I hope you will come often hereafter." "Business shall not keep me," I returned, playfully, "if-it is your wish." "My father's, you mean," was the arch and smiling reply. "' Like father, like--" I hesitated before saying " daughter," when she quickly uttered, "Son."    2 74         MYSELF. "Daughter!" said I. "There's no such quotatidn," said she. "Nor is there a son," said I; "so perforce it must be daughter." "Well,- have it your own way," she replied, coloring. "Only the father would be glad to have you come. " "And the daughter?"I asked. "Don't particularly object." And she looked shyly but smilingly, with a rosy color, up into my face. Of course I promised to visit Brookline often, and felt most happy while promising. "I should feel so happy here," she continued, " if he were only well. Everything is so quiet and beautiful. People think I have a queer taste in preferring ducks and chickens and flowers to watering-places; but I love them, and would not leave them." "A love of Nature is the noblest of all loves," said I. "If we can understand and converse with her, all else seems insipid." "That's-true," she returned, with animation. "Nature does not deceive us. She acts upon immutable laws. From Nature we look up to Nature's God, and bless Him that our lines have fallen in such pleasant places." When we reached the house, the young ladies rearranged their dresses, and after rest and refreshment we strolled o'lt to see what Bell called Miss Willis's treasures. First there was a complete aviary of birds; then a war- ren for rabbits; then a park with a small herd of deer; then a small inclosure with a couple of calves and a cosset 'lamb. Soon we came to another inclosure. "I know this place by its hen-sign," said Ned. We turned off to gaze at the happy families of ducks and geese and chickens that filled the various subdivisions. "There's the hospital, I suppose," again remarked Ned, pointing to the coops, around which congregated a brood of young ducklings. "Why so?" asked Miss Pike: , "Don't you see the quacks?" Anderson pointed out a group of Bremen geese as afford- ing a fine opportunity for a shot. "Here's a bigger goose," said Miss Pike, pointing to   MYSELF.          275 Ned, who was still laughing at her discomfiture over his joke.     - "Not I. I'm a duck. By-the-by, I know of some excellent shooting on the wing, Anderson,-recommended by a distinguished Englishman." Anderson looked queerly, but said nothing. Miss Pike caught at the bait.  "What is it? Miss Willis and Bell will want to try it." "Folly," replied Ned. "Pope says, you know, 'shoot folly as it flies." "Dear me," exclaimed the talkative minx, "you must take care of your head, then, Mr. Whiting, for folly has its roosting-place there; and if they should go shooting about it I don't know what would happen." We passed from the ducks and chickens to the conserv- atory. Rare exotics blossomed on every hand, and filled the atmosphere with a dreamy and delicious fragrance, intoxicating the senses, and sending a thrill through the frame. "Here," said I to Miss Willis, ",are your favorites." She smiled and nodded. "How do they please you?" she asked. "Emblems of innocence and purity, who would not like them? The soul can converse with these flowers, and become holier and better for it. There is a fresh beauty in each bursting bud, and new delight in each opening petal." to     c "( Oh, but you are an enthusiast in your admiration." I love them as I do the memory of childhood or the picture of my mother." She gave me an earnest look. "They foster a love of the beautiful and true. You can- not pursue their cultivation without profit, mentally and morally. " "Then you applaud my taste?"  I do. For, after all, what is life? It is simply a search after happiness. We cannot find it in the hollow excitements of the gay world, nor in the whirl of fashion- able dissipation. We must learn to live within ourselves, to create our own enjoyments, to understand and converse with Nature. She furnishes pure sources of delight. She can endow us with contentment." l   276         MYSELF. We passed out of the conservatory into the open garden. Our companions were wandering along the parterres, stop- ping to admire- those particular flowers whose beauties challenged their attention. "A flower for you," said Miss Pike, plucking a branch of larkspur for Ned. "And one for you," he replied, returning a mari- gold. Miss Willis gathered a Canterbury-bell, which she passed to me. I gave her a penetrating look, but perceived nothing. "A flower for me?"I asked. "If you please to accept. " "Its language is--" "To be found in the books," she replied, evasively. "Among the dead languages, of course," added Ned, whose ear was cocked to catch our conversation. "You see it's the first Bell that never had a tongue. The lan- guage must be ' silent regard.'" Ned gave a sly look to his sister, but she was occupied listening to Anderson. "Pray what do you know of the language of flowers?" asked Miss Pike of Ned.  "Me? I have written poetry concerning it." "Rhyme?" Yes." "Indeed! Then you are a poet. Pray favor us with a specimen of your muse." And she gave a comical look at Miss Willis. "I have heard that you wrote," said Miss Willis, "but never read any of your effusions." "Let us have that upon the flowers," added Miss Pike. "It was an epigram,-not in the books," he returned, apparently flattered. CC You may find it in the old files of the Literary Cosmoapolitan and Gazette of Polite Nezews." "Oh, bother!" cried Miss Pike. "Repeat it." I believe the fellow was flattered at the kindly tones with which Miss Willis spoke when she alluded to his poetic efforts. The epigram, which he repeated, was as follows:   MYSELF.          2" "Our Lucy wed a moneyed man (She was young and old was he), And by it plunged young Harry Lamb In deepest pain and misery; Soon after Hal she met, they say,  Among the flowers as of old,- Of him an emblem she did pray, He plucked and gave-a marigold." "' You have altered that from the original," said Miss Pike, " for then it was ' fair Nelly,' instead of ' our Lucy.' A curious idea you have of the language of flowers, if that is it." "It is the only true language which admits of a pun. It speaks in two tongues, then, which even the dullest comprehension can understand." "Is that the reason why dull wits resort to puns?" asked she, roguishy. i The retort- rather discomfited the punster; and Bell added to it, as Miss Willis called the gardener and ordered him to make us each a bouquet against our return to the city, by saying,- "Put some sage into Ned's. According to his own confession he will understand that. He'll never get sage in any other way. " "Never mind about it," replied Ned, "I'll let experi- ence make me sage; but put a Bell-flower into Anderson's." "An unconscionable joker," remarked Miss Willis to me, as we were walking apart. "Of the punning kind,-generally considered a low species of wit." It was an ill-natured reply, and she paid me well for dwarfing Ned in that style. "So Webster defines it, but I cannot fully agree with him. I never heard of a wit who did not pun, from Sid- ney Smith down. Even the wit of our own Cambridge poet is said to be Holmes'-pun. And we have the author- ity of Sterne for saying that, after all, wit is only a double- entendre. " "You have neglected to quote the whole," said I. "He added that it is a pity that double-entendres are not always wit." "True; but that has no force." 24   278         MYSELF. "Excuse me if I do not perceive it." She stepped aside and plucked a rose. "Is it not beautiful?" she asked. "Very beautiful," said I. "And after all it is only a flower. Now vary Sterne. It is a pity flowers are not always roses. Do you find any argument there against flowers?" "No. But then Dr. Johnson says," I replied, return- ing with little discretion to the charge, " that a man who would make a pun would pick a pocket." "A pickpocket then of his own conviction; for John- son perpetrated an excellent pun in reply to the plea of poverty by the provost of St. Andrew's College, an insti- tution which made itself infamous by the sale of its honors. Said Johnson, ' You have only to keep on as you begun and you will get rich--by degrees.' " "But that has no force," I -replied, adopting a method of retort that I had seen her use with good effect. "Excuse me if I do not perceive it," said she, imitating my own manner in the previous case admirably. "Why, a man declaims against drunkenness, and then gets drunk himself. Does the fact of his getting drunk lessen the force or truth of his previous admonitions?" "It is not an analogous illustration," she replied, "but we will not dispute about that. Against Dr. Johnson I'll put Charles Lamb, who calls puns 'agreeable levities,' ' twinkling corpuscula of conversation.' And Foote, who, when told that punning is the lowest species of wit, re- plied,*' True, thefoundation of it;' and Dean Swift, who speaks of it as- 'Quite legitimate fun, To be banging away at every one With a regular double-loaded gun."' What is the use of disputing with a woman? I saw my folly. In using authorities as clubs with which to carry on the contest, she had found them in plenty, and knocked me down with them, if I may be allowed to use an Irish- ism, faster than I could get up. I parried her blows as well as I could, and beat a retreat at the first favorable point. But I retreated very ill at ease. I cared nothing for the pommeling, only for the cause of it. The readi-   JMYSELF.         279 ness which she displayed in taking up the cudgel for Ned, and breaking my head with it, though it found no vent with me in words, nor in appearance, made me most un- comfortable. In short, I was jealous. We soon returned to the house, and found Mr. Willis on the lounge, engaged with the Evening Transcript. At his request the party became seated. Another rollicking word-encounter ensued, led on by Miss Willis. As we took our leave that evening, Mr. Willis grasped the hand of Ned Whiting. "I wish you to come again; come often; come, all of you. I never knew how to appreciate you before, Mr. Whiting. You have been the life of the party this after- noon." I should have been better pleased had this panegyric been omitted. I did not like to hear such encomiums from such a source,--especially as his daughter was a listener. This visit broke the spell which had confined Mr. Willis to his country-seat, and he soon resumed his visits to the city. Availing myself of the invitation of Miss Willis, I was often at Brookline. I never found myself an unwel- come visitor. But if I went often, Ned Whiting went oftener. He had a very convenient excuse, that of at- tending his sister in her calls upon Miss Willis. "Sister Bell" was willing to ride to Brookline whenever "brother Ned" would drive her there, if it was twice a day. At length a trip to the White Mountains was agreed upon. Mr. and Miss Willis, Ned Whiting and his sister I were of the party. I was invited to join, but unfortu- nately I had previously agreed with Mr. Hall that he should have a month's vacation, and he was off for the Catskills and Saratoga. So I was forced, quite unwillingly, to decline. Never before could Mr. Willis have been made to con- sent to form a portion of a party that should include Ned Whiting. "A rattle-headed fellow, fit only to please the silly with his jokes, and tickle young ladies with his flatteries." This was his opinion of Ned, previous to that visit to Brookline. Subsequently that opinion was modified; and   280     .MYSELF. I tormented myself with the idea that the daughter was responsible, in a great measure, for the change. Of Ned's devotion to Miss Willis, I had not a doubt; and it gave me many anxious moments. I knew that I had no right to a place in 'her heart, but the thought that another should occupy a nook there displeased me. I will not conceal the truth,-mine was a mean, foolish jealousy of Ned Whiting. The nimbleness of his tongue, his endless jokes, were doing what all my supposed rec- titude of conduct and devotion to business could not accomplish. I was conscious at times that I was unjust. "Why," I asked myself, "should-I wish to gain the love of one who can be nothing to me beyond a friend?" But I soon lapsed again into a state of uneasiness, which was not lessened on the return of the excursionists. They were absent several weeks, visiting the White Mountains, the Canadas, and returning by way of Niagara and Sara- toga. Ned went away a Webster Whig and returned a Free-Soiler. Miss Willis had proselyted him. The political parties soon commenced the annual can- vass for State officers, and the first occasion Ned had to show his devotion to the newly espoused principles was when called upon for his annual contribution for party expenses. "Not a dime!" was the curt response. "Indeed!" exclaimed the collector, looking blank. "We have already assessed you at the old figures, and have only called on you to have you confirm it." "Then you'll find figures will lie; and I'm not the bishop to bestow confirmation on them." "What's ripped up now?" asked Mr. Hall (the col- loquy was in our office), who had just paid his own assessment. "Only a few planks of your rotten platform," replied Ned. 'Turned coalitionist, eh?" suggested the collector, with a  half laugh and half sneer. Ned winced. "I'm no longer a  believer in the fugitive slave law. We've had enough of that. The Sims case satisfied me - j   MYSELF.          28i that it is not so much justice the South desires as the humiliation of the North. We must bow down before the juggernaut and allow its car-wheels to roll over our necks." "I suppose, then, you would let the Southern trade go to the devil-or New York," returned the collector. "If trade can't exist in this city," retorted Ned, " with- out making such sacrifices as those this season, then it had better sell out. It can't go to the devil any more than the Dutch can emigrate to Holland." Ridicule is a powerful weapon when leveled at weak minds. Ned's opponent seemed inclined to make use of it. "Barnum is in want of you, Ned! You are the great- est political curiosity extant. A fellow who has ever been foremost in supporting Webster and the compromises turned Long-heel! How do you manage to dispose of your old record? Oh, it is decidedly rich! Why, nobody ever contended so strenuously for the constitutionality of the fugitive slave law as you." "I don't say it's unconstitutional now," faltered Ned. "Oh, you don't! What do you say?" "That hell is not more barbarous." Ned rarely indulged in expressions like this. Although staggered at the onset, he gathered and came to the charge with a will. "The fugitive slave law is a disgrace to the land. The whole civilized world lifts up its hands with horror at it. It is as despotic as a ukase of the Czar. It rivals in bar- barity the edicts of Nero. Posterity will judge those who would enforce it as we judge Shylock. The laws of Ven- ice gave him his pound of flesh. It was constitutionally his due. He stood upon his bond, and only asked what the law allowed. But who volunteered to uphold the law? Who appeared in court to counsel and aid him? Where was humanity? Shuddering at the ferocity with which he demanded the fulfillment of the bond! Aghast with horror when the judge acknowledged his power to enforce it! Leaping forth to second the petition that the judge would for once wrest the law to his authority,- do a great right by doing a little wrong, and sinking back 24*   282A         MYSELF. when the judge replies that it cannot be,-that no power in Venice can alter a decree established. "Did you ever witness Macready as Shylock, and ob- serve the setting teeth and glaring eyeballs that greeted him from the audience when he follows with the excla- mation, '0, wise young judge, how do I honor thee!' Did you ever observe the wild yell of exultation that follows the announcement of a loophole by which Bassanio escapes? Did you ever observe how the audience joins Gratiano's jeering? How wildly it shouts and yells and mocks! Mark, then, the inevitable judgment of humanity upon this fugitive slave law; for which is the worst,-the Jew seeking his pound of flesh, or the slaveholder his hundred and fifty pounds? When you can teach me, sir, to admire the character of Shylock and his persecution of the Vene- tian merchant, then I'll admire and defend slave-catching again; but before God, not before." I had never known Ned so excited nor so eloquent. For once his puns and gibes, his flashes of merriment that were wont, Yorick-like, to set the table in a roar, had vanished before a stern, straightforward, vehement con- demnation of a great wrong. His opponent replied,- "Bassanio was a white man. Jif he had been a nig- ger II God made all men alike, and faphioned them in his, own image," cried Ned, interrupting him. "You may color your case as you will,-Amake the slave as black as you like, still he's a man, and God acknowledges him." The collector was unable to stand up under the torrent of words that Ned continued to hurl. He beat a retreat, and left the office with the conviction that the Whigs were beginning to lose Young America as well as Conscience and Old Fogydom. Ned turned on his heel at the depart- ure of his antagonist, and relieved himself with a long breath. "Mr. Webster must feel very bad when he learns that you have deserted him," remarked Mr. Hall, in his quiet, sarcastic manner. "Will he?" retorted Ned. "Then he must comfort himself with a small haul elsewhere." And with that he stalked out of the office.   MYSELF.          283 This change of sentiment in Ned had the effect to call up the subject of slavery quite often at the office. Mr. Willis, Ned, and I formed a trio that agreed pretty evenly as to its merits. At first the new convert hardly dared take the ground that the fugitive slave act was unconstitu- tional; but at length he said,- "No man can be constitutionally deprived of his lib- erty without due process of law." "What is due process of law?" asked Littlegood, who happened to be present, poring, as usual, over the contents of a musty folio a century old. "That which gives one all the securities of the law,- trial in his own vicinage, a jury of his peers, and time to enter upon and prepare his own defense." "That's from the debates on the Federal Constitution in the Virginia Convention," said Littlegood. "So much the better. The authority of the fathers is worth something on such a case as this." "But does a fugitive slave have his liberty?" asked Lit- tlegood; "and who are his peers?" "Of course he has his liberty when he is at liberty,- i   when he has broken away from restraint. It doesn't need any reference to books to show that. His peers, then, are freemen, and he is entitled to a jury-trial by them." "But the fugitive act," said Mr. Hall, " is claimed to be only preliminary. The offense is committed in the State from whence he escapes. When a criminal flees from one State into another, he is not tried in the State in which he is found, but is delivered up and tried at home." "If the fugitive act be the preliminary process," re- plied Ned, "where is the supplementary? Where is the final process? That's gammon, my friend." "Oh, no. The fugitive can try his title to freedom in the courts of his own State, if he is unjustly detained." "Can he? Remarkable! So I can give you a thresh- ing, and if I find I have mistaken the man, I'll apologize. Or, better, if I lose my watch I'll have you arrested. You can establish your innocence, if you are wrongfully im- prisoned, in the courts of the State." "Pretty well turned," remarked Littlegood. "But   284         MYSELF. you didn't get those illustrations from the classics, that's certain. " "Go to thunder with your classics!" exclaimed Ned. "You pop-guns that are always discharging quotations at the head of every one you meet, think of nothing but well-proportioned similes and correct figures of speech. The best figure is that which figures nearest the truth. When I had a rotten cause to sustain I had need of your tropes and hyperboles; but now you've lost a customer. I deal in plain words." This closed up Littlegood, and he went off again. He always did when rebuffed. "Poor devil!"' ejaculated Ned. "Othello's occupa- tion's gone with him, so far as I'm concerned." "What do you mean?" asked I. "Oh, that's a secret." It was all the information that I could gain. When I was left alone I asked myself the cause of the evident research on the part of Ned. Six months pre- vious he knew no more in regard to the securities of the law than Anderson. There was but one answer,--Miss Willis. "If a woman can rouse his sluggish nature to such activity," mused I, " what may he not accomplish? Love is omnipotent. Determination is everything. It has an influence beyond itself, and prostrates every obstacle that rises in its path. If Ned is determined to win her hand he will accomplish it." And thereupon I heaved a sigh. After a time Ned returned. "I'm sorry I offended Littlegood," said he. "I may need his assistance again." "In what manner does he assist you, pray? I was not aware that he is of the least assistance to anybody." "He's little good in nature as well as name, I confess. But find any young fellow in the neighborhood that is afflicted with the cacoethes scribendi who don't know him, if you can." The light dawned a little. "Did he ever ask you if you compose?" continued Ned.   MYSELF.         285 "Yes." "Of course you said No, and there was an end of it." "But if I had answered differently?" "Then you might have known what you do not. There's a sort of masonry in it. The initiated are not allowed to divulge." "I understand." "The deuce you do! But I have said nothing." "I see why he searches these musty tomes. The fellow is improving Sterne's method of paying his debt to Le Fevere, by opening a shop for the furnishing of 'epigrams, anagrams, paragrams, chronograms, and monograms.' " "Littlegood will tell you that that which was attributed to Sterne was never his." And Ned went on to give Lit- tlegood's version. "So you've bought of his wares, have you?" said I, laughingly, as he concluded. "Yes; and poor wares they've been. I've got cheated oftener than I've got the worth' of my money. Do you know that examination I put you through when you cele- brated your admittance last spring?" "The interrogatories were concocted by him?" "I do not say so. Confound you, you have seen some of them. Littlegood didn't go back far enough in hunt- ing them up." This was an interesting revelation. The question then arose to what extent had Ned drawn on Littlegood for his jokes. Whose puns did he retail? What was the mean- ing of Ned's confession, and of telling Littlegood he had lost a customer; that henceforth he should deal in plain words? I had generally learned to rely on myself, for the simple reason that I had none on whom I could lean. I had learned to be my own helper,-to cultivate and strengthen my own nature. The further I proceeded the better I was pleased. I saw that no man could do the work for me. I found that my best assistant was within me. One thing worried me. Ned Whiting was laying siege to the heart of Miss Willis in his own character. He was acting himself, and was sure to win. My mind reverted back to my engagement to Kate Blake. If I were only   286         A YSELF. free from that, how would I dispute the fair prize with him, even though he acted ten times himself! And then I became heated like a furnace, and paced the floor, and cursed the unlucky star that had led me, in seeking the means, to despise the end I had first set out to gain. "A poor, unaccomplished country-girl!"I exclaimed to myself. "Here am I, said to be talented, eloquent,- courted and flattered I certainly am,-and yet bound down to this boyhood engagement. What fools men are! Acting always for the present; never thinking of the future. Pleased with a rattle, tickled with a straw; the next moment flinging all away for a bauble no better. Nobody calculates in youth his future. All form their en- gagements fron present inclination. If dishonest they break them. If honest, when the future opens new views, they find the past irrevocable, and are bound for life. Am I honest? Shall I keep or break my early faith? If I had only waited. If I had only known myself. If I had not become committed." In the midst of my ravings, Mr. Willis entered. "You look perplexed," said he. "Some knotty point that you cannot solve? Come! Ride out to Brookline and take tea with me. I have just engaged a saddle-horse for Mary, and I should like to have you be her escort while she tries it." Like the moth attracted to the light that only burns him, I complied. On arriving at Brookline we found Miss Willis gone to call on Bell Whiting, in the city. In vain -Mr. Willis labored to supply her absence. We went to the stable to look at the animal he was about to purchase for her. It was a magnificent creature,-as lithe as a greyhound and gentle as a lamb. But I had no eye to discover her beauty, and no tongue to dilate upon her good points. We wan- dered over the grounds, Mr. Willis pointing out the natu- ral beauties, and the improvements he had made and intended to make. But I was blind as a bat. The person who could give a charm to everything was absent. We returned to the house. Respectfully, but dull and spiritless, I 1iathed to the words of kind encouragement from Mr. Willis. Compliments that any other time had ,   AMYSELF.         287 made my blood tingle, fell on a leaden sense. e I bowed, and smiled, and thanked him, and-remembered nothing. I flattered myself that I concealed the true state of my feelings from him; but the man must have been dull in- deed who could not have observed something unusual. "We talk of self-made men," said he. I remember that, for I had been denying that I was self-made, but owed all my success to him. "We talk of self-made men, but we should have many more, could they only be en- couraged a little on setting out. Without the aid I gave you, I dare say you would probably now be head-waiter at the Tremont House. Possibly you might have risen to the position of head-clerk. I had no relatives to think of, and so I am free from the charge of nepotism; and I flatter myself that I have done young men who had no claims upon me some service." I bowed in acknowledgment, but wished I had never beheld him.  "For what is knowledge," thought I, "without contentment? What is fame without happi- ness?" I made a parody of Scripture,-"What doth it profit a man to gain the respect of the whole world, and lose his peace of mind?" "I never thought that you or Anderson could repay me," continued Mr. Willis. I looked at him with a stare. He had touched my pride, and I roused up. "Let the kindness I have done you both descend to ' others equally as worthy as yourselves. That it may be equally well expended is all I ask. I have no fault to find. Vary the golden rule, and do unto others as you have been done by, taking care to inculcate upon the ob- jects of your kindness the precepts I now enforce upon you. Thus, with a little capital at the start, a great good may be perpetuated. Without such a rule generosity has no foundation for germination and perpetuation. The generous action should be a loan that the recipient is bound to extend to some one who comes after him. Be- nevolence without an object on which to practice is no virtue; and benevolence which is not extended from one to another loses its value after the first exchange. The estoppel on the part of those who are capable of extend-   -288         MYSELF. ing it, is a guilt almost equal to the murder of a human, soul." This eccentric lecture was interrupted by the abrupt return of Miss Willis. ' "Oh, father!" -she said, coming in through the hall, "Mr. Nims said he had sent a saddle-horse for me to try. I have brought Mr. Whiting to accompany me in the ride." She stopped short on beholding me, and was visibly embarrassed. I thought I divined the cause. But I had no reason to complain. What was I to her? What was she to me? I had no right to step in between their grow- ing affection; and I began to feel ashamed of myself as Ned came in and gave me a cordial greeting, as though nothing out of the ordinary course had happened. "He has no suspicion of me," thought I. "He thinks I am in love only with my profession. He shall not be undeceived. His happiness shall not be marred though mine is." -Notwithstanding Ned signified his willingness to give up the excursion, and Miss Willis seemed nothing loath, I declared it should not be, and prepared to take my leave. "It is rather an awkward affair, but you see how it is," said Mr. Willis, apologetically, as he accompanied me to where the servant was getting ready the carriage. "It is of no consequence," I replied, with a smile. "I'm not much with a horse, while Ned rides like a cav- alryman."     i Miss Willis came otit in her riding-dress. "I have no apologies to offer, Mr. Head. I called first at the office for you." The words operated upon me like magic. "Had we only known it," she said further, "I would have ordered a couple of horses out and taken Bell along, and have made up a gay party." She made the servant wait till the gardener prepared me a bouquet for the vase in my room; and, as we drove off, presented me with a sprig of coreopsis, hinting I might find its language-in the books. I knew the language,--" always cheerful." "Does she mean to have it refer to me or herself?"I I^   MYSELF.          289 queried, as we drove off. "If to herself, it is true; if to me, then appearances are deceitful." The servant was full of praises for his mistress during our drive homeward. I heard it all, remembered it all,- but why repeat it? Everybody praised her. Shortly after this, John Littlegood visited the office to pore again over the musty tomes. He betrayed consider- able anxiety to know how far Ned Whiting had revealed his secret. I did not gratify him. "Woman," said he, "has made a fool of him as woman has thousands of others. He has, however, the sense to take one of the least exceptionable." "How so?" asked I, curious to sound Littlegood's ideas of the sex. "Why, he fancies one who has some flesh, and there- fore some good nature," "Then you value woman as a dairy-woman values her butter;--the greater the number of pounds the more at- tractive." "Pish! That smells of the farm. Women have few attractions-to me. But if they are to be endured, give me one who inclines to embonpoint. Take a lean woman if you want a scold or inclined to hysterics." "Addison!" said I, with a smile. Littlegood- colored and looked abashed. After Little- good wept away I had another fit of jealousy of Ned, and then, like Hamlet, flouted myself for giving away to it. Time passed on. Business increased with the fall term of the courts, and kept my mind absorbed with my pro- fession. Ned Whiting stuck close to his office, likewise, prepar- ing for his admission. He passed a successful examina- tion, and was admitted with honor. He seemed to have' thrown off his sluggishness, and to have started at full trot on the highway to distinction. As a practitioner, he was sharp acute, quick in conception, and quicker in retort, full of withering satire, and abounding in passages full with eloquence. His first case showed me that he was a dangerous pro- fessional rival, to say nothing of our practice in the courts of Cupid. But his inconstancy weighed in my favor. If 25   i" 290,         MYSELF. he made rapid flights he often stopped to rest. Confident of his attainments and capacity, he was negligent and ir- regular; For a particular object he could spur himself to an active exercise of his talents; but the object gained, he would sink again into that state of inaction where knowledge is useless, wit pointless, and genius becomes puerility. It is not needful that I should follow every step of my professional career. I was a rising man-grappling the most knotty and intricate points of law with a resolution that never failed to subdue them. I disputed for the ver- dicts of juries with the keenest minds and the ablest heads. Artifices were exposed, mystifications were untwisted and made plain, flights of oratory and efforts to work upon the feelings rather than the reason of juries were met and parried, sometimes by oratory equally as flighty, and ap- peals to, the passions rarely less effective. Everybody within the circle of my acquaintance looked upon me with favor. Doors were thrown open for my admittance. My acquaintance was cultivated by belles and heiresses and managing mothers. None asked, {"Who is he?" "From whence did-he originate?" but all said, "Introduce him!" The fact that I was a protege of Mr. Willis, an acquaintance of his daughter, a visitor in the family, had long rendered such questions unnecessary. Is it strange that I became intoxicated with, my posi- tion? The restraint laid upon me by my youthful engage- ment with Kate Blake seemed to have been everything -that prevented me from making a fool of myself. No! I will qualify the assertion. The teachings of my mother, planted deep in my-nature, and watered with her prayers, saved me. Those teachings prevented me from cutting loose from that engagement and plunging into flirtations and dissipations that must have inevitably xobbed me of the distinction I was so steadily gaining. The tragical event in my early life that sent Dick Bradley to his grave, was likewise not without its effect upon my character. I was much indebted to the kind, though eccentric, counsels of Mr. Willis during this period. He compared fortune to the weather. It is inconstant and ever changing. To-day it smiles; to-morrow it frowns. "Take care,"   said he, "that you conduct yourself so that you may safely meet her every mood. "Public favor is a coquette. To be always in public favor one must turn lackey, and humbly obey all its ca- prices and humor all its whims. It smiles unasked at times. At other times, though you crawl in the very dust, a kind look, even, is denied. "Boston is a tyrant," said he, "that looks upon talent as an artificer looks on his tools, to be worn out in its ser- vice. Public opinion in the State must be fashioned and bent to Boston lead. If Thrift goes forth, Talent must draw her to Boston shops. If Talent kicks from the traces, it will be cuffed back again, and taunted with turn- ing-traitor to the hand that feeds it. "Thrust yourself into politics, and every merchant among your constituents makes you his common property. He has a scheme to benefit trade for you to log-roll through the Legislature or through Congress. Every manufacturer thinks he has a lien upon your abilities, and forthwith sets you devising a scheme to meet his particular branch of business. He guarantees to furnish you with funds to cor- rupt Congress; and as much expects you will carry a law through to suit him as he expects you to draw your pay. Do not the Legislature and Congress belong to the State, and are not these men the State? Doubt the proposition, and take heed to your political existence." Though exaggerated, there was much of truth in these remarks. He further warned me against a too trusting nature. "Suspicion is a virtue. The eagle never scaled the highest cliff but he found a reptile there before him, ready to make his acquaintance and tender his patronage."  I! 292         MYSELF. CHAPTER XXVII. How I won an Important Lawsuit, and became Famous in Conse- quence. DURING the winter I was engaged in a case that gave me considerable renown. Bartholomew Easterbrook was a State Street broker. He had the reputation of a sharp, shrewd operator, ready to take advantage of any. flaw, and rarely overreached. But overreached he had been. He had received from Luke Graham and Isham Keith, two returned Californians, some ten thousand dollars in bills of exchange and the like, which he was to convert into ready cash, and hold subject to their order. Graham went West, ostensibly in search of an investment. In the course of time Keith appeared at the office of Easterbrook with a letter purporting to be from his associate, directing him to withdraw their funds from the broker and meet him in Cincinnati. Easterbrook paid?,over the money, deduct- ing his commission, and Keith departed. In the course of six or eight weeks Graham appeared on the scene, and what was Easterbrook's consternation when told by Graham that he had never written Keith any such letter as he had exhibited, and had never given him any authority to with- draw the funds in Easterbrook's possession. The-affair looked very like a swindle. Sufficient time had elapsed for Keith to get out of. the way, and though detectives were placed on his track, no trace of him could be found. Unfortunately for the broker, every statement made by Graham in regard to his whereabouts during his absence from the city proved to be correct. Notwithstanding the closest Scrutiny was made of his acts and antecedents, not a thing could be found to substantiate a charge of con- spiracy to defraud. There were plenty of suspicious cir- cumstances, but no facts. The most prominent reason for thinking it a swindle was that years before Easterbrook had "done"Graham out of a heavy amount, and it was thought this was simply a plot to get it back. If so, it   MYSELF.          293 was adroitly managed, and likely to succeed. But the broker resolved to!" die game." Having paid the money to Isham Keith, he had no idea of paying it, or any part of it, again to Luke Graham. So suit was brought by the latter to recover his share of the amount. Easterbrook was a very skinflint. It was like taking his life to take his money. He went to all the law-offices in the city offering his case, but he would not pay a dime unless they would warrant the verdict in his favor. In that event he would give a fee of a thousand dollars. None of the established lawyers would touch the case; first, be- cause it was contrary to the practice to take a cause on speculation, and second, because the chances were de- cidedly in favor of Luke Graham and against Bartholo- mew Easterbrook. It was in this way I heard of the matter. Easterbrook had been to our office and offered us the defense, but Mr. Hall sent him away. I thought I had read somewhere of a similar case, and the line of defense at once suggested itself. I sent for Easterbrook. The result of our inter- view was that I agreed to defend. Mr. Hall said I might do as I pleased, but it was unprofessional. I might fight it out by myself,-he would have nothing to do with it. The papers were made up, and we went to trial on the facts. The plaintiff's counsel put in Easterbrook's receipt when the bills were deposited. I compelled them to prove its authenticity, which they did by two witnesses. When the first witness was handed over to me for cross-examina- tion, after -he had sworn to being present at the time of the deposit, I asked,- "You were present during the whole transaction?" "I was." "You heard all the conversation?" "I did." "Was there a conversation about either of the parties going West in search of investment, and that the other should stay behind and take the money on?" "There was something said about going West, but no- thing about the other's drawing the money." "You are sure of that?" 25*   294         MYSELF. "I am." "Was there not a special agreement that the one who stayed should draw the money under certain circum- stances?" "No." "You swear that? Be careful, sir!" "I do." "You say the deposit was in bills of exchange and drafts on California?" "Yes, sir." "And both parties participated in it?" '/k They-did.?' "Well, sir, now please state exactly how the deposit was umade,-all about the whole transaction." "Well, they made the transaction as I have already stated,--together. " "As copartners?" "No; jointly, as individuals." "Go on."  "Well, that's all I know about it." "Was nothing said about drawing it?'" "The drawing was to be the same." "What do you mean by that?", "Why, the same as the deposit." "Now, sir, do you mean to state on your oath," said I, rising, and speaking sternly, " that what you have said is true?" Without the least hesitation the witness replied in the affirmative. I pressed him hard. He did not vary a particle. I began again at the beginning, made the witness re- count all the circumstances of the transaction, and plied him with questions till the plaintiff's counsel interfered and prayed the protection of the court, who hinted some- thing about my tediousness. But I dismissed the witness at my leisure, failing to shake his testimony in the least,- a result which, above everything else, I desired. The second witness corroborated the story of the first, and was as exact on cross-examination. "Plainly a plot from the beginning," I suggested to my client.    MYSELF.          295 "I told you so. I shall lose the case," he muttered, heaving-a sigh; "but you'll lose your fee." The sigh was noticed by the opposite side, and its effect on them was corresponding. Turning to the witness, I said, in a voice indicating no great hope,- !"You may stand down." The counsel for plaintiff stated that they should here rest their case. I sat conversing in a whisper with my client.. "Well, Mr. Head," ejaculated the court, after waiting a minute or so. "If he is as long examining his own witnesses," sug- gested the plaintiff's counsel, "we'll have a siege of it." "I have no witnesses to examine," said I, with a cool- ness that was truly refreshing,-to myself at least,-as I enjoyed with keen zest in anticipation the result. "Ah!" and the judge settled himself back into his seat, as if to say, "It is all folly, young man. You were a fool to come here." I did not hurry about rising, but kept whispering to Easterbrook. "Well, Mr. Head," ejaculated the court, with a shrug, and in a raised tone, looking first at the clock and then at the jury. "May it please your honor," said I, rising and address- ing the court instead of the jury, at the same time casting a look of indifference on the opposite counsel, and suiting my language to my appearance, "I think this is a clear case. " "So do we," responded the counsel for plaintiff, rub- bing his hands with a chuckle. "Humph!" ejaculated the judge, with that air of su- perciliousness usually displayed toward young lawyers, motioning his head for me to address the jury. "I think, your honor," continued I, maintaining the same cool air, "that by the plaintiffs own showing, the defendant must be discharged under the instruction of the court. "' The judge pricked up. "The terms of this deposit and its withdrawal are plain. It was a joint deposit; it was to be jointly withdrawn."    i j296             MfYSELF. "Nobody denies that!" exclaimed the junior counsel for the plaintiff; but the senior counsel started as if he had received an electric shock. "Very good," rejoined I. "It is all the better be- cause there is no dispute about it. Now, your honor, I put in the plea of non-joinder. The plaintiff comes into court and asks to recover and by his own authority. If it was to be a joint withdrawal, where is the other party?" The countenances of the opposite side were blank. My client sprang to his feet, and though not knowing the meaning of non-joinder, saw enough to satisfy him who had won, and made some very expressive and excited gestures. "Sit down, sir!" commanded the judge. "Gentle- men," to the counsel for plaintiff, " what answer have you to make to that!" A hurried consultation ensued between them and their client, during which time, with my feet in a chair before me, I sat poring over the columns of a newspaper, appar- ently quite uninterested, though my heart throbbed and bumped enough to knock its-way out. The consultation ended by the senfior counsel saying,- "We have nothing to say, may it please the court. We admit the objection to be fatal." "Very well. The jury will return a verdict for defend- ant, upon a very plain principle, gentlemen,-non-joinder. The deposit was made by the parties jointly, and it has been shown that the demand was to be the same. The plaintiff makes it by himself and in his own behalf, when it should be in the name of both; and therefore he is not entitled to recover." The result caused an animated buzz among the attorneys in court, but I coolly bundled up my papers and prepared to leave, as though the case was an ordinary one in my practice. As I left the court-room, Ned Whiting nudged my elbow. "I suppose you thought you did that well?" "What do you mean?" said I. "Why, that appearance of unconcern. Capitally done, I suppose you think,-eh?"   "You wouldn't have me all excitement?" "Oh, no! Cool! icy! indifferent! holding the paper as rigidly as a vice, and reading it upside down /" And Ned went off into a most violent fit of laughter. When I reached the office, Mr. Hall met me with a quiet smile and the interrogatory,- "Whipped? Of course you were!" He could hardly be made to believe the contrary, till the broker, full of exultation, came rushing in and con- firmed it. When informed of my line of defense, all his wonder ceased, and he replied in a tone expressive of con- tempt,- "Perfectly plain! Anybody could have won that case." "Oh, yes!" cried Ned, firing up. "A thing is easy enough when you know how to do it. Any fool could set the egg on end after seeing Columbus do it." It is wonderful what a single successful performance by a man will accomplish towards winning his way into favor. I might have successfully competed with Choate in address- ing juries, yet not have gained half the consideration that I did on winning that case. The older members of the bar credited me with an acuteness, a quick-sighted and keen penetration that would place me in good time in the highest rank at the bar. The students unanimously voted me a "brick."  The junior members of the bar alone denied the merit of the performance. Was it on account of professional jealousy? Fortune rarely confines herself to a single smile. A short time subsequently, during the indisposition of Mr. Hall, I won a case in which the popular heart was inter- ested, after much hard fighting, and solely by dint of fire and fervent argument to the jury. Mr. Willis sat by and prompted. From that day forth I believed my character as a lawyer was established. There was no end to the difficult and intricate cases offered us. New clients came daily, not more, as I thought, to consult Mr. Hall than Mr. Head. This led Ned Whiting to remark, "Heads or Halls, the' office wins." Notwithstanding this flattery of my pride, and evident prosperity, I was at heart discontented and unhappy. I   I 298           MYSELF. saw a prize, more lnecessary to my comfort than fortune, favor, or fame, within my grasp, and yet I was debarred from securing it. CHAPTER    XXVIII. How I proposed to Miss Willis, and what came of it. SUMMER had come. The eighth anniversary of my de- parture from my native home was rapidly approaching. I longed for the day when I might embrace my mother, and receive the benediction of a reconciled father; but I dreaded the hour that would bring me in contact with Kate Blake. Certain tokens led me to the belief that I was not wholly an object of indifference to Miss Willis. The thought that an ill-considered, ill-advised engage- ment in extreme youth should prevent me from knowing what position I held in her estimation, became quite in- tolerable. I was like the Spectator's member of the Amorous Club, sighing five times in a quarter of an hour, scarcely enough myself to answer a direct question, and with a mind and body that hardly kept company with each other. At length I sprang up in sheer desperation. It was only a week to the allotted period for my return tQ my native village. "I mast fathom it," I exclaimed. "Come weal or come woe, I'll know my destiny. If she rejects me, it will then be time enough to meet this early love. If she accepts, may some good angel bless Kate Blake and make her happy!-I cannot." With a heavy respiration, I bundled my papers in my desk, turned the key, put it in my pocket, and a half-hour after was bowling across the, mill-dam"  on my way to Brookline. I found Miss Willis in the summer-house engaged in drawing. The sketch was a study from her own flowers, and I could hardly tell which the most to admire, the original or the copy.   "So then," she remarked, with a smile, "you have found a little time to tear yourself away from business in business hours. It must certainly be a relief. You are worked very hard now." "Yes," said I; "and the worst of it is, my heart is not in my work." "Ah, indeed! and so you came out to help me enjoy my solitude, and to brush the cobwebs from your brain. If you only sketched, I would set you to mixing colors for me." "In that case I would run back to town. I came to escape work; not again to be put to it." "Pray pardon me," she said, "I quite forgot." And she laid down her brush and prepared to put away her sketch. I begged her not to do it, but she persisted. "I couldn't paint without giving my attention to it. If you were sitting by, I should paint those weary-looking eyes, peeping out at every point where, by the rule, I ought to place the eye of a daisy." "But I disturb and interrupt you," said I, "in thus compelling you to relinquish so pleasant an occupation." i "Oh, no; it was a little pastime, in which I indulge for my own amusement. Shall we look through the grounds, or shall we seek the shade of the veranda?" "It is cooler and pleasanter here," I replied. "If you have no objection, why not remain as we are? The odor from these flowers is quite refreshing." I made a wretched attempt at looking at ease. I think she must have noticed it. At any rate, she said,- "You look really careworn. Why can't you arrange your business so as to drive out here each evening, sleep here, and ride in in the morning? The change would invigorate you." "I am afraid Mr. Hall would complain," said I. "We are very much driven now. "But why be driven? Is man a mere beast of burden, to be always in the harness, night and day? Here I am with nothing to do-except to amuse myself. I often think how happily I am situated, and wonder why I am so blessed, when others who are weary and worn ought to share the blessing with me."    300         MYSELF. The very remark of all that I could have wished. "I have often thought of that," said I, " and- wonder, too, you do not find some one to share it." She blushed and laughed, and said I had put quite a different construction on her words from what she in- tended. I replied that possibly I had, but still it was a natural question. "Oh, yes. People often wonder. And, for that matter, I wonder, too, sometimes. But then,"--and she looked out beneath her arching eyebrows, as she turned her head a little on one side,-" you know we are not all arbiters of our own fate. All I have to do is to be patient and wait." "For what-the coming man?" She looked roguish and smiled. ' You certainly have not lacked for opportunities nor offers," said I. 1'But opportunities and offers may not always suit," she replied. "Seriously, Mr. Head, I haven't had an offer since my school-days, and I have hardly seen any- body since that I have fancied." "I doubt," said I,!" with your many treasures and pets here at Brookline, whether you could fancy any one. Your affections are absorbed by what you have surrounded your- self with. You have no care but for them." "Oh, yes. I love--" a Whom?" "My father." ", No one else?" "Myself," she laughed. "Bell Whiting accuses me of a cold nature, and says I never look beyond the creat- uies of my own raising. And speaking of Bell," she added, as a voice calling after Miss Willis came from the direction of the house, "here she comes." Presently Bell Whiting and Miss Pike came tripping towards our retreat. I felt vexed, for I fancied Miss Willis not averse to the conversation, and would quite willingly have allowed it to drift into something more tender. In fact, I felt assured that she rather expected it. And to have the opportunity broken in upon and marred! I asked myself why it always was, and it always will be, that just   MYSELF.         3 as we arrive at the consummation of a desire, somebody or something, intervenes to prevent,--that just at the moment we are on the point of grasping a prize for which we aim, it is dashed from us. Did ever anybody get at the most interesting moment in a toee-dtg-te without some one breaking in upon them? I arose and would have walked off breathing anathemas upon Miss Willis's friends, but etiquette demanded some- thing better; and so I smiled and bowed and compli- mented, and replied equally as saucily to Miss Pike's saucy tongue, at the same time heartily wishing both the visitors were laid up at home with the toothache. They were worse than the toothache to me. My opportunity for that day was gone. I made the best of the afternoon I could, and went back to the city, -the only fruits of my adventure being a beautiful bou- quet made by the hands of Miss Willis, which I tenderly placed in a vase in my room and regarded doubly dear for its donor. On the whole, although the expedition had resulted in nothing definite, it was full of encour- agement. Two days before the time I was to return to my native village I was again on the road to Brookline. This time I was desperate. I had been battling between love and duty ever since my last visit. Duty bid me keep aloof from Brookline. Honor and conscience told me to go resolutely to my appointment with Kate Blake, and something within whispered me the encouragement that I would find my real happiness lying in that path. Then came love and passion, raging. like a fever. I need not go over the arguments on that side. I could urge nothing, nothing whatever, against  Miss Willis. There was absolutely not a flaw that I could perceive in her character. If there were but a single blemish! If she were haughty, she would touch my pride. If she were giddy and frivolous, I should despise her. But she was all that I could picture in a woman and call her my ideal. So love and passion triumphed, and I rushed to my fate. I considered it an omen of good that I found Miss Willis again with her sketch where I had found her before. I must have looked very haggard, for she met me with 26   302         MYSELF. real concern, and said I appeared quite ill. I laughed and replied-no, I was only ill at ease. She insisted that I ought to take up with her advice, and spend my nights at Brookline, riding out and in for air and exercise. "I shall be absent for a week or so," she said, "but you shall be well cared for meantime."- I don't know what kind of an expression I gave, whether it was a laugh or grimace, or a convulsive attempt at the former in which I failed. I only know she gave me a stare. I told her that I too was expecting to be absent for a day or two. Perhaps when I --came back- I would accept her invitation. "You will be most welcome," she said. "But I have a very pleasant room where I am; more pleasant," said I, " because of the rare flowers with which I have adorned it." "Those withered stems? They must be in a sad state of decay." "So much the -better. They are the more fitting em- blems of man's hopes and fortunes,--green for a season, then withering away." "Men should seek abiding hopes and fortunes that do not fade," said she; "just as you should discard those withered flowers and obtain fresh ones." "And where," I returned, "should I seek them but here-here where beauty trails and grace superintends!" She gave me a sharp look, and said, smilingly,- "Take care!- The advocate turns flatterer. He leaves his city practice to sport with the reason of a poor girl, thinking to turn her head as he would that of a juror." "Oh, no.  The advocate is an advocate still, and no flatterer. He only changes his practice from the courts of the Law to those of Love." I thought she looked surprised, but it might have been my imagination. She only said, slowly and hesitatingly,- "tWell." "I bring my suit to you, and demand justice." I saw the color come and go on her cheek. Her bosom heaved, her nerves twitched, and she trembled so she could scarcely hold her pencil. It was so unlike her be- havior on my former visit, I hardly knew what to think; but   M YSELF. 303 I remember that I had a strong impression that I should succeed. "You speak in professional terms," she said at length, recovering somewhat her self-possession. "You must re- member that in this I am not skilled. If I am to be your umpire you must state your case in plainer terms." "I will," I returned, " for you are the umpire. The case is briefly this: A poor young man of my acquaint- ance had a treasure. He valued it above all else. It was essential to his peace-a part of his life. That treasure has been stolen." "Indeed! What was it?" !"His heart!" She gave a start, and then settled back, and uttered with mock seriousness,- "Poor fellow! It was without doubt a grievous loss. A man without a heart is a piteous object. I have seen many of them, and never one without feeling the greatest commiseration. A heartless man! It was an outrageous wrong. Justice shall be speedily done. I order the prop- erty to be at once restored." "I have come to demand it," said I, quietly as I could. "How?" "Thou art the woman!" "O--h!"And she drew the exclamation out long and circumflex, holding her face close over the sketch that was lying in her lap. "Then I am to be both judge and cul- prit, am I?-a rare union of qualities in one person. Out of my own mouth I am expected to condemn myself. At least you will inform me whom I have robbed. Prove to me that he had a heart to lose." "The heart, "said I,--I hesitated. "The heart was"- what a strange choking in my throat-"was-was my own." Again another start. Again she turned rosy red, and then completely pale. "Yours, Mr. Head?"And she looked shyly, and as if frightened, up into my face. "Yours?" "Mine. None other." Then with a great struggle, she answered,- "There's need of caution here. Being myself culprit   304         MYSELF. and judge, I find you complainant, counsel, and chief witness. While laboring under a double embarrassment, you oppose me with triple force. Before I confess judg- ment, I must be sure that you identify your property. What sort of a heart was it?" The question was asked with such charming naivete that I smiled lugubriously. I was emboldened by her seeming condescension. "It was a heart overflowing with love." "Of yourself?" she quickly added. "No; of you, and you alone. It may have been a poor heart,-poor indeed; but in robbing me of it you have robbed me of all that has given me peace; you have deprived me of all disposition to follow my pursuits, rendered me melancholy, unfit to enjoy friends or society. But I do not claim its return," said I. "That cannot be. The laws of Nature, which should be recognized as in force by the courts of Love, forbid such a transaction. It is laid down by Cupid that to restore a heart would be contra bonos mores. Acting upon the maxim that a fair exchange is no robbery, rather than upon the maxims of the Levitical law, he holds that they who rob one of a heart should be compelled to give theirs in return." "What! Surrender mine,-simply because yours is lost, and you complain that I have stolen it, yet bring no proof in support of the allegation? I must indeed be circumspect. You must not press the court too hard." "I see; you deny the impeachment, and require me to substantiate the charge. I have traced the heart to these grounds. Here it disappears. The Saxons held that if a person could trace his cattle into another's inclosure, the owner of the inclosure should be obliged to show their tracks out of it or pay their value. Can you show that my heart has passed from here? I believe not. It is you who harbors it. I sue, then, for justice. Shall I sue in vain?" "Not if you value your heart as Saxons did their cattle," she replied, with a light laugh. "You shall have .justice if it is mine to give. I have a heart. I have always sup- posed it to be mine, for I have but one. But it may not be so.  If it is not-mine, but yours instead, then mine is   MYSELF.          305 lost; and as you say the lost cannot be restored, and I must give mine in exchange for yours, there's a dilemma. Justice may fail after all, or Cupid must revise his plead- ings and practice. Pray, how did you come by a heart?", "By inheritance, I suppose; the same as I came by my poverty." "And you never gave it away, supposing you still re- tained it? Did no bright-eyed girl in your school-boy days coax it from you? Remember you are here upon your honor, which in the court of Love is considered more sacred than oaths. Be truthful, now. Confess that you have come here to cheat me with false pretenses; that all the while we have known each other you have had no heart; that you left it back among your native hills in the keeping of some confiding girl, who gave you her own in return,-hers that long ago you idly threw away as too worthless for preservation." "Oh!" said I, deprecatingly, " you are too harsh." Yet I felt that it was all too true. She went on without noticing the interruption. "Take care, sir, what you do! You who never before talked of love; who never hinted even distantly about the tender passion during all the long years you have been in Boston,--take care, sir! There's a reason for this. You do not know how nearly omniscient is the court be- fore which you plead. Reflect that without honor and honesty man is repulsive, and when devoid of truth, be- comes loathsome. Confess, sir. Tell me the truth about this matter." She looked at me partly in banter and partly in earnest, and I thought more in earnest than in banter. No matter as to that,-she had touched the very marrow of the dif- ficulty, and her words stung me like needles. The old war was on me. Passion and honor-love and duty-- were tearing at my vitals for mastery. In spite of all my efforts to control my emotions, they betrayed me. I saw her grow pale. She even grew rigidly pale. Was it possible that she possessed an inkling of the truth? Stranger things happen. Should I confess- pleading my love of honor and truth, and throw myself upon her mercy, and by earnest siege force her into capit- l  26*   306         MYSELF. ulation, trusting to the future to rid me of the only ob- stacle to our happiness? She was the first to speak. "Your hesitation," said she, "augurs badly. In these courts hesitation isprima facie evidence of guilt. As you wish for leniency, throw yourself on the mercy of the court and confess the truth." I tried to encounter her gaze, but without avail. She was wonderfully collected for a person so deeply agitated, while I was wonderfully agitated for a person who should have been quite collected. "You do confess," she said, with a smile so faint that it died away on the instant of its birth. "Come! it is laid down in Cupid's law-books that silence is assent." Somehow I felt that I was caught, and determined to make a clean breast of it, and then attack her sympathies. "Yes," said I, "partially. I will be truthful; I'll- not come to you with a lie upon my lips. I did once make a present of what I thought to be my heart; but I must have been mistaken. I plead in excuse for it my youth. I was too young to know my own heart. It was in my minority, when I could not be held legally responsible for contracts of my own making. " "The plea is not allowed," she said. c Love knows no minority. Though you may have made foolish bargains and transfers without obtaining a just equivalent, the plea of non-age unavails. Quite as well may husband and wife plead dislike in support of a petition for divorce. I pity you, sir," she added, with a tremor to her voice, "but I can't assist you." I gave her an earnest look, as if I would penetrate to her soul. What was the meaning of those words, uttered so gravely and firmly, albeit her voice did tremble? Such perfect self-possession in a woman as she exhibited just then, I had never seen. She was all of a judge, and nothing but a judge. "You puzzle me now with your professional language," said I, affecting a lightness I did not feel. "Let us under- stand each other. When I was quite young I loved.. .The object of that love was the playmate of my childhood,- companion of my boyhood. Mine was a child's love for that playmate, a boy's love for his sister."  Of YSSELF.        307 "It grew stronger, and changed in its character with age?" "It did. I declared my affection, she reciprocated it, and we parted. That was eight years ago. I have not seen her, nor have I heard from her since." All that impassibility observable at first in her counte- nance had vanished. She was visibly embarrassed. I had seized her hand; her fingers trembled within my grasp, but were not withdrawn. "You say the girl returned your love?" "She did. - At least she pretended she did. But her father forbid our meeting, and my own ordered me to see her no more. I have no evidence but she forgot me long ago." Miss Willis seemed deeply interested. "What was the cause of the objections made by your parents?" she asked. "I never ascertained'." "Indeed! It is quite romantic, and rather interesting. You left her, then, because you were forbidden her pres- ence. Faint heart couldn't win fair lady, I suppose. She understood this. There were no conditions made-no understanding for the future? You left her through neces- sity, and never promised to see her again?" "Ah!" thought I, "subterfuge with an inquisitive female is vain. If I conceal anything I shall some time betray myself, and then she will despise me." "Yes," I uttered aloud; " we did have an understanding --we did promise to meet again." "When?" "Two days hence." "And you did not meet,-they prevented you, I sup- pose?" "You misunderstand," said I. "We agreed to meet in eight years from that date, which occurs two days hence." "Oh! I beg pardon for my stupidity. So, then, you are not going to fulfill your engagement? You do not love her now, and will break your promise?" "That I have not decided. I may meet her; but love her I do not. The image of another has driven her from my heart. You are responsible for the change. I may not   i     308         MYSELF. be worthy of you. My position, however, is good. My birth and parentage--" "Do not speak of them," she replied, with impatience. "What are birth and parentage to weigh against general worth?" The words encouraged me. "I trust you will consider me worthy, for I assure you my fate is in your hands. God only knows how I have struggled to master this passion, but it has mastered me. I would have stifled it"-'I went on, noticing how tenderly she regarded me--' if only for the sake of the love due my profession, knowing, that I, had no right to force myself upon your regard. In revenge it has stifled all other love and reigns supreme. It is for you to speak. It is for you to make or unmake me. It lies with you to tell me whether I shall live and be happy in the enjoyment of your smiles, or live and be miserable in their absence." ' Mr. Head," said she, gravely, withdrawing her hand, "C were it in my power, to none would I grant a favor sooner than to you." She spoke with emotion. CI I have respected you, deeply and sincerely. You have genius---" "Oh, no!"I replied, " genius is a spark struck from Deity. I have no genius"--how lugubriously I smiled!- "even in making love." "You have talents, then,-great talents," she said. "I have admired those talents, and the success you have achieved in the pursuit of your chosen profession. More than all have I admired your truthful charatter,-your noble, straightforward manly self-reliance, your honest and upright disposition." I bowed my head under a compliment I did not deserve. She continued: "But did I love you evenyou are under obligatiohs to another you should fulfill." "But if I find that she has forgotten me?" I seized her hand again. For a moment she allowed it to remain. "If she releases me? Give me even that hope." I saw that a struggle was going on within herself. At length she asked,- "Do you entertain such a belief?"   MYSELF.          309 For a moment I met her honest gaze. She was as lovely as an angel, and the incarnation of virtue and truth. I could not deceive such a being. My heart sickened. I let fall her hand. "No!"I replied. "If she lives, I believe she is still awaiting me. I am all too sure of that." And then a fierce anger seized me, and I belched out with vehemence,- "Waiting or not, I can never marry her, never,-never, so help me  " Miss Willis made a gesture of fright. "No! no! no!" she cried. "Do not swear! I beg you, I implore you!" She was really wild with excitement and alarm. "You ought to thank God for the possession of so true a heart," she exclaimed. "One like that, it seems to me, ought to be prized above all of earth!" "And yet,"' I cried, " the thought of her is hateful to me. Her memory is detestable. I can't help it," I went on, as -a  she shrank away from me with something like an expression of aversion mingled with surprise. "The idea of meeting with her is almost insupportable. My God! Miss Willis, have pity. This anguish is greater than I can bear. It is all that afflicts me, and it has made me almost a mad- man. I must know my fate. Give me at least one thread to unravel my destiny,--one word to cheer my future." 3v;   Again that look of tenderness stole over her. She seemed to hesitate. I caught at it as a symptom of yielding. "You hesitate," said I. "How may I interpret it? Let me say favorably." "You have no right to so interpret it," she replied, with an effort that showed the sacrifice she was making; and as she spoke rising to her feet. "You are engaged to another, Mr. Head. Till that engagement is honorably canceled you wrong yourself and do me an injury. Go meet your engagement. Think more of your honor as a man than the indulgence of a wild passion, that will go as it came. You do not even know your own heart." "I would to God," cried I, " that I did not, but I do  To marry that girl,-the unaccomplished daughter of a country farmer. No! never!"My fierceness had returned,   310         E MYSELF.             V and Miss Willis stood regarding me with horror. "It is asking too much. In other circumstances--'in other times; but now 'tis impossible. I hate the thought of her. Your image has crowded hers from my heart. Its sweetness has changed the memory of her to gall. I love you She fled abruptly, and sought refuge in the house. I re- mained transfixed, gazing, stupefied, after her. Then, as my scattered senses returned, I strode hastily out, entered my carriage and dashed recklessly back to the city. - All the following night I strode up and down my cham- ber, or threw myself on my bed and buried my head in the folds of the cover as if I would shield it from the fire that burned my brain and yet did not consume me. I cursed the hour that gave me birth to be made the foothall of fortune in fulfillment of old women's predictions. I breathed maledictions on the composition of man that led him the slave of an insensate passion for senseless, frivo- lous, fickle woman. "Oh, cursed torment! Oh, damned necessity!"I cried. "It is well said there is no living with thee nor without thee! What a mockery that man, who aspires to deeds of the noblest daring, to knowledge the most profound, should fall a slave at the feet of a weak, capricious woman! He may command the praise and admiration of thousands,-  : his name and fame may be known in every ,cottage in the land, and yet because he d'oes not possess one poor worth- less heart of one poor helpless woman, he is wretched and undone! Life is shorn of all its attractions and becomes a very burden, because among the thousands who smile on him. there is one whose smile is denied! Noble in facul- ties, infinite in reason, man throws all away and falls at the feet of -a remorseless Delilah that clips his locks of strength and binds him a weak prisoner. From Adam down, the Eves have fooled and ruled the world. For them, man is undone! "Shall I be a Petrarch to my Laura, and die singing her praises without possessing her? Shall she rule me with her code of moral duties, and damn me in my obeying them? Shall she bind me with these cobweb strings that she winds about my heart, and then send me to be the   MYSELF.          311  slave of another, and mock her with lip-service while I detest her! No! no! no!" Thus did I rave, breaking out into foolish, disjointed sentences. Where was philosophy then, to tell me that I ought to be cool? that in time I should forget Miss Willis as I had forgotten Kate Blake? Philosophy had gone in pursuit of my wits. If my wits had returned, doubtless philosophy had been there to counsel and advise me. 'The next morning I went, haggard and with bloodshot eyes, to the office. Mr. Hall remarked my appearance, and expressed the liveliest sympathy, apprehending that some great misfortune had befallen me. I went into court with him, but could examine no cases. I could not even keep the minutes for him. "You are ill," said he, " whether you know it or not. You ought to go to your lodgings. You are even now suffering from fever." I went out, but not to my lodgings. In vain I en- deavored to drive out the tormenting thoughts that racked me. "Fool! fool!"I muttered, "I to be so weak!" I wandered about,-here-there-everywhere; seeking rest but finding none. I was deadly sick, but not physi- cally. Dinner hour came,-passed; but I had lost all appetite. I never thought of food, nor did I visit my hotel. Evening approached. There came a flash of memory. I thought of the eighth anniversary of my leaving home, --I thought of my MOTHER! "I will seek rest and quiet with her. I will be a boy again. Her counsel shall bring me peace,-that peace I so much need." Making a hasty toilet, I packed a few changes of linen into a traveling-bag, called a coach, and ordered the driver to take'me to the Lowell cars.   312         MYSELF. CHAPTER   XXIX. How I revisited my Home, and the changes I found there. IT Was quite dark as the train, dashing up the valley of the Merrimack, set me down at my stopping-place. The clatter of the rushing cars, the wild shrieks of the flying locomotive, acting upon the tumultuous whirl of my own passions, had left me quite calm. Like had cured like. I stepped forth on the platform of the station wonderfully composed. It seemed as though I1 had fled away from all my troubles. The recent past had receded; a veiled and expectant future, with its uncertainties, was flitting before me. I was returning to the scenes of my youth, and they were crowding fast on my memory. I was asking myself, "How is it with them?" forgetting for the time what I had fled from. I ordered a carriage at a hotel, determined to seek my home that night. It was soon at the door. The man who brought the horse gave me a hearty stare, then nodded, and called me by name; and as I gathered up the reins, he said,- '"Your wife don't come with you, Mr. Head?" It was now my turn to stare. His was the Yankee method of asking a question. But the horse was restive, and dashed off, and we parted without further words. Who was he? I did not recognize him. Some old ac- quaintance--perhaps an old school-fellow. But what did he mean by referring to my wife? I went on conjecturing nearly the whole of my ride. At length I arrived at old familiar spots. It was dark. There were no lights in the houses, but they advanced out of the gray night one after another, like sentinels, and bade me pass. Here came a clump of well-known trees by the roadside; then a familiar hill rose up in my path. Then I suddenly drew the reins. A brook came singing out of the bushes and danced merrily down under the   MYSELF.  3 3 bridge on which the carriage stood. That brook came down by my father's house, miles above, and was gayly pursuing its tortuous course to the river, and thence to the ocean. What old associations mingled with its gladsome music! I passed on. A new object arrested my attention. The churchyard yawned by the roadside. A sickening sensa- tion stole over me. How many of my former companions lay mouldering beneath those sods, passed away since I had left the place? I felt a premonition of some calamity, My own rela- tions! Were not some of them lying there? The family burial spot was only a few rods off. I could easily search it out. I turned the horse up to the gateway, leaped out, sprang over the old wall, and floundered along among the tombstones. I shuddered as I passed a well-known spot. It was the grave of Dick Bradley. A few steps farther,- I felt relieved. "There has been no change here," I murmured, with grateful exclamation. But my heart sank as it rose. I had mistaken the spot. I turned in a new direction, and stumbled a few steps far- ther,-over a new-made grave, and there, close before me, shone out a large, white tombstone. I reeled forward like a drunken man; threw myself on one of the mounds, and covered my face with my hands, and cried in agony,-- "Oh, God! Whose grave is that?' Only the stars shone out overhead, and they were half obscured by clouds. The wind sighed a requiem for the dead through the branches of the maples that skirted the grounds. It was too dark to decipher the inscriptions. I could only see the outlines of the graves. Falling on my knees before the stone, I ran my fingers across the inscription. How the cold slab sent a thrill of horror through my frame! I was deadly sick as I felt out letter after letter,-a slow, tedious, painful process,--each one gained being a step nearer a dreaded disclosure. Was it my father's?  Was it my mother's?  Oh, gracious heaven, that it might prove neither! Slowly, painfully did I proceed. "Sacred to the memory 27   314         MYSELF. of -the next line would reveal the secret. I sank back and grasped my throbbing temples. I felt that I could not proceed, yet that I must. Again I made the essay. Again I spelled with the blind scholar's eyes the words, "Sacred to the memory of"-and then, holding my finger on the slab to mark the spot, paused to summon fresh strength and resolution. A moment elapsed, then my fingers moved on.  J-O-H-N"-it seemed as if I had been seized with St. Vitus's dance-"H-E-A-D!" It was my father's grave. Dead! dead! and we un- reconciled! Scalding tears gushed from my eyelids, and, bending my head on my knees, I sobbed like a child. How long I remained I knew not, for when the neigh- ing of the horse aroused me, I lay stretched beside the grave, as if just awakened from a long sleep. I felt that I must know when he died, and so went over the tedious process of respelling the inscription with my fingers. He had been dead three years. I peered about among the neighboring stones, but there were no other new ones. "My mother .yet lives!" thought I. "That is a bless- ing which remains to me!" Where now was the passion that consumed me the day and night previous? Gone! All forgotten! I was a boy again. Back in my own native village, I was mourning  at the grave of my father. The blow, though struck for three years, had just reached me. It was terrible, because unanticipated. In all my waywardness, in all my stub- born resolution to not return till the present time, I had no thought of my father's dying. I had made no calcu- lations for that. Death had never been taken into account in my plans, and he had dashed them all to pieces. As I staggered out of the churchyard, I became aware that my steps were dogged. I saw the form of a man step behind one of the stones. My first impulse was to seek out the intruder. But no, I was the intruder. He was probably some villager passing homeward, and, attracted by my carriage, came to see what I was doing. Bowed with grief, I stepped almost within his reach as I went by, and yet paid no attention to his crouching form. I entered my carriage, muttering,-   MYSELF.          315 "My mother lives yet; I shall see her again!" I passed the village church, scarce noticing it, and then I felt a presentiment of a new misfortune. Twice I crossed the babbling brook that saluted me so cheerily a mile or two below, but I had no ear for its song. At length the house of Mr. Blake appeared painted black against the horizon. Then I turned the corner, and there stood "the cot where I was born." My heart throbbed, and beat, and knocked tumultuously. "Is she there?" I was passing the spot where I stood when I last beheld her. In my mind's eye I again saw her in the doorway, looking down on her departing, outcast son. I strained my eyes, but she was not there now. Everything looked dark, dismal, and dreary. A feeling of absolute fright seized me. The horse surmounted the hill. I turned him in toward the fence forming the little yard in front of the old house. Not a light glimmered within. Not a sound of animal life surrounded it,-no familiar snort of cattle lying in the barnyard; no cluck or dackle of fowl disturbed on its roost; no grunt of swine from the neighboring pen; no growl, or bark, or movement of the old familiar house- dog. Silence -deathke silence--rested upon everything. How awful to one who for eight years had been accustomed to the noise and confusion of the city pavements! Did I say all was silence? No; there was one well- recognized sound. The waterfall in the woods above the house was still singing its subdued summer song. That alone, except the silent old building, welcomed me back to my childhood. How still, solemn was all Nature!-lis- tening to that plaintive song of the waterfall, telling its story of ages! Hark! A cock is crowing in the barn of Mr. Blake. It is answered to the east from the barn of another neigh- bor. A third answer at the north; but silence rests on the old barn close by,-once so resonant with the loud clarion of the sturdy chanticleer. How eagerly, how breathlessly, I listened all the while! Death could not be stiller than was I. I fancied that I might hear the ticking of the old clock in the front room;   3l6         MYSELF. but only a cricket commenced its chirrups underneath the window. Unable longer to endure the suspense, I leaped from the carriage and swung wide open the gate. It creaked and groaned upon its hinges. The first step within the yard told the story. Rank grass was growing in the path! I pushed on to the door; a spider had built its web across the handle! Then I felt that I was indeed homeless! Desolation crept to my heart. I sank to the doorstep, and lamented my existence. I did not curse now; I lamented,-la- mented that fate had made me aught save the simple boy that I was when I plied my water-wheels in the brook, knowing nothing of sorrow and disappointment, and caring for nothing beyond the crude and simple toys that afforded me amusement. The house was deserted. Then I asked myself if my mother was dead, with my father. I must ascertain. Mr. Blake's was the nearest house. Should I disturb him? Why not? He might be dead likewise, though; but the crowing of the cock showed the place to be inhabited. I re-entered my carriage and drove down the hill, and drew up at a new, heavy gate. I alighted and passed up the slope to the house, the path fenced on each side by a neat, white paling. I stood in front of the same old house, in and around which I played so many times with Kate Blake; but how altered! I discovered green blinds and white paint, and smelled honeysuckles and roses about the doorstep. "Ah," thought I, and my heart smote me, "these flowers belong to Kate!" In answer to my knock, a man put his head from the window, "What do you want, sir?" he asked. "Can you direct me to the residence of Mr. John Head?" He is dead. His house is just yonder on that other rise; but nobody lives there now. Mrs. Head has gone with one of her sons in Massachusetts." My heart leaped joyfully in my throat. My mother was then alive! The voice was that of a strange man.   MYSELF.         317 Was it the husband of Kate Blake? Oh, false, faithless woman! At length I asked,- "Can you tell me if a Mr. Blake lives in this neigh- borhood?" "He used to live here; but he is dead," was the reply. Dead! dead again! "And his wife and daughter?" "I don't know much about the wife. She moved off before I bought. There is a rumor that she died lately somewhere down country." "And the daughter?" "I never knew much of her. She ran away before I came here with one of the Head boys." "Indeed! How's that?"I asked, for I was deeply in- terested. Here was the solution of the remark of the man where I obtained my carriage. "I don't know, sir," replied the man. "Only they say the two liked each other, and the old folks opposed the match. So they ran away. But, my dear sir, I can't stand here all night in my shirt to give you a history of the town." "Oh, no, indeed not," said I, quickly; "and I beg your pardon for detaining you so long. Pray, sir, is there a public house in the village?" "A public house! God bless you, no, sir. Since the days of railroads, public houses in places like these are as rare as virtues in a lawyer. I suppose you want lodging? If that's all, perhaps I may be able to accommodate you. I never turn a virtuous man away from my door if he will accept my hospitality." "But I am a lawyer," said I. "Oh, you are, are you? You are brave in confessing it, and I like you for that. You know my appreciation of them, and if I take you in I shall act upon the maxim, 'forewarned, forearmed.' " So saying he put down the sash and left me to my musings till he could make his appearance at the door. Most glad was I to accept his offer. I was quite pros- trated, and felt that I could go no farther. Presently the man came to let me in. 27*   3IS         MYSELF. "You have a horse, I suppose? Come in a moment till I get a lantern." When the lantern was lighted, he gave me a close scrutiny.           . "You look like one of the Headsi" said he. "I am one.' "And a lawyer?-Gods! how pale you are!" "Yes, a lawyer," I replied; "and the events and infor- mation of to-night are enough to make the stoutest pale." "You are not Kirk, are you?" "Yes; I am Kirk." The voice of a female issued from the little bedroom once occupied by- Mr. and Mrs. Blake,- "Why, James, that's the one that ran away with Kate Blake!" "I thought so; and that's why I asked," replied the man. "Oh, well, your return will be the advent of a new era in town. All the gossips will besiege you for a month. You will have to tell them where you've been, what you've been about, how you and your wife get along, how old your youngest baby is, and whether it has had the measles and the hooping-cough and the canker-rash,  and how old the dear thing was when it cut its teeth, and how often you dosed it with catnip-tea, and how much paregoric you gave it at once, and"--he saw I was be- coming impatient--" that reminds me that you may have brought your wife and babies with you. They are waiting for you in the carriage?" "No," said I. "I have no wife, no babies; I ran away with no Kate Blake, I know nothing of her, and for eight years have known nothing of father, mother, or friends. I only ascertained that my father was dead by feeling his name out on the tombstone." "Good God!" shuddered the man. "That's awful. But is it a fact that you don't know anything of the Blake girl? Ah, I forgot, you said you were a lawyer!" He probably thought the story incredible. I cared not what he thought. He called to his wife,- "Maria, Mr. Head has probably had no supper. Just jump up and boil the tea-kettle while we put up the horse."   MYSELF. "Don't disturb yourself on my account," I said. "I have no appetite. I can eat nothing." The woman had anticipated her husband's request, and made her appearance as I spoke. "But a cup of tea will do you good," she replied. "And is it true that you don't know anything of Kate Blake?" "True." "Why! that's very strange." "It'll make gossip twice as lively, won't it, wife?" said the man. "That's what it will. Why, sir, everybody supposed you went off together. It isn't possible she commit- ted-  " "For God's sake, wife, don't!" exclaimed the man. "Don't you see that he can hardly stand up under what he has already learned? Come, sir, let's look to your horse. Sorrows come not single spies, and we must learn to take them as they come. Bear up, sir." I followed him mechanically. When we returned, the table was neatly laid with viands that at any other time would have been inviting. The wife, a blooming female, was busy drawing a cup of tea. "Come, sir," said she, placing a chair to the table; "sit down. You must be hungry if you have had no sup- per. I knew your mother very well. I was sorry to have her go away. But I suppose she was lonesome in the old house above. None of the boys could be coaxed to come home and live and pay off the debts on the farm. Your mother was one of the best women in the world. I've heard her speak of you many times. She was sure you would return. Oh, sir, she'll be so glad to see you! Your father was very sorry for what he did to you before he died. It troubled him a great deal." My head dropped into my hands. The tears gushed out through my fingers. I paced the floor in a grief almost insupportable. "It must be tough!" said the man in a voice that was meant to be kindly. "Coming suddenly it must be. But what else can we expect? Eight or ten years work revolutions."   320:o        MYSELF. ; You had better sit down and try a cup of tea," sug- gested the woman in a voice more kindly. "Your mother was a famous tea-drinker. She considered tea a sovereign remedy for nervousness." I sat down as she suggested. My mother's remedy had a charm to- it. My throat was parched with thirst. One, two, three cups of the burning liquid were gulped down in mere insanity. My clothes were wet with sweat. Though I had tasted no food since the day previous, I could not eat. When I moved any from the table, the woman again spoke of my mother.           X "No! no!"I interrupted, piteously; "no more to- night. Let me be alone to-night. To-morrow I will speak to her; to-night H cannot!" "That's it!" said the man. "One can always best master his grief by himself; that is, if he sets himself about it." "You had better put him in the front chamber," sug- gested the wife, giving him a candle. , "You won't wish to get up very early; and if you come 'from the city you  are used to noise. You can sleep as long as you please." Sleep? What a mockery! There was no sleep for me. The apartment to which I was shown was the one occu- pied by Kate Blake. Here was the window out of which she climbed the night of our last interview. Here across this window-stool we exchanged parting kisses. Where was she now? Old associations and the mystery that sur- rounded her revived old affections. I looked out on the maple in whose branches Ben Mor- rison and I took refuge on that memorable night. It had extended its arms out wider and its trunk was larger than when we hid in it. It hardly looked like the same tree. The room, too, was altered. Paint, paper, and white- wash, and furniture of modern make, gave it a changed appearance. I sat down on the bedside and plunged into busy medi- tation. Kate Blake run away with me? Such was the general opinion, but not the fact. Would she, like me, return for the appointed trysting? I felt a secret pleasure in the belief that she would.   MYSELF.          321 How had my feelings changed within two days? Then I dreaded meeting her. Now I felt it would be happiness. She could travel back with me into the past and give me her sympathy. What a change a few short years had effected! My father dead-Mr. Blake dead-Mrs. Blake dead--my mother gone --Kate gone-my home deserted-strangers now where friends were! It was, indeed, like having the place that once knew me knowing me no more. How often had I drawn pleasant pictures of my return,-the surprise that I would give my aged parents; the reconciliation with my father; the greetings of welcome from old friends and former mates; the surprise and disappointment and mollification of Mr. Blake! But all these pictures were airy dreams never to be realized; and as my mind reverted to them, I lay down on the bed and groaned. The sun had not risen when I stole down-stairs and out into the open air. The first spot toward which I bent my steps was the old well. It, too, had undergone the spirit of change. The old curb and sweep and "moss-covered bucket" had disappeared, and a modern pump had taken their places. I found an empty bucket near, and laved myself in the sweet, cooling water. I felt refreshed after the ablution. The dew stood thickly on the grass, notwithstanding which I picked my way down the slope and stood by the ruins of the rustic dam I had constructed so many years before. There remained but little to remind me of former scenes, but on that little I gazed with mournful interest. I continued the ramble, and soon the trickling of water from the side of the hill told me that I was at the ap- pointed trysting-place. The water sang the same merry song, but the rustic seat was gone, and tall rank grass grew in its place. I returned to the house. The table was spread for break- fast, and a white-haired old man, his crutches close beside him, was sitting by the window watching the humming- birds and bees that settled among the flowers which blos- somed beneath it. The hum of children's voices came from another room. My hostess came in from the porch where she was   322         MYSELF making her morning's cheese, and saluted me cheerfully. She thought that I had just descended from my room. "You've had a good rest after all. I was afraid you wouldn't sleep well, I made that tea so strong." Then turning to the white-haired veteran, she said,- t Grandfather, this is Kirk Head that we have heard them-tell so much of." i The old man rose with difficulty, and, grasping his crutches, essayed to meet me; but I advanced, and he shook me warmly by the hand. "You've got the family feturs," said the old man. "I could tell that. You look very much like your mother. Jeems tells me you've had a hard time of it since your return, and your countenance looks like it. You had bet- ter go to the well and souse out your eyes. Cold water is a good cure." I was glad to escape what importunity I could, and obeyed his direction. The second ablution was equally refreshing with the first. Not caring to return, I sought refuge in the barn. But that, too, had been'modernized. The spirit of improvement had obliterated many a mark made in my boyhood on and about the scaffolds. It was unmanly to weep; but how I longed to be a boy again, that I might find solace in tears! I went back to the house. Breakfast was in waiting. My host had come in from the field, and greeted me kindly. Two curly-headed children, a girl and a boy, apparently twins, were added to the group. The one was shy and retiring. The other was inclined to be belliger- ent, until his father told him to walk up and shake hands with me " like a little man." When I was introduced to the girl she hid her face in her mother's apron, and peeped from behind its folds as timid as a gazelle. We drew around the table. The old veteran implored a blessing, not forgetting to mention in it the returning wanderer, who had found, as it were, the places that once knew him scarce knowing him more, friends scattered and gone, and only strangers to greet him. He asked that the Almighty Father/ might sanctify the infliction to his good, to which I responded mentally a hearty amen. !" s'pect,'" said the old man, taking the first opportu-   MYSELF.          2 nity, as the meal proceeded, to probe my wounds afresh, that things look kind of nateral 'round here?" "There's a change here," said I. "This house was an object of interest to me, but it is not as it was of old." "Jeems has made many improvements about the house and farm, I can tell ye," he uttered, in a voice of pride. "But I s'pect you will find a grist of things just as you left them. I recollect when I got home from the war-I wer out in the Revolution four year--how I wanted to look over all the old things. I went down-stairs and looked at all the cider bar'Is, and up-stairs at the corn- bin, and I brought down the corn-sheller and shelled a half-bushel corn, jeest to put me in mind of old times." "You haven't forgot that trick yet, grandfather," re- marked the wife, pleasantly. C"He sticks to all his old notions, sir," said she, addressing her conversation to me. "James finds a good deal of opposition from him in his adoption of new systems and plans." "Well, what's the use of book-farmin'?" replied the old man. "It's like goin' over a lot of chaff to git at a little grain." "It's just the reverse, father," said James. "Book-farm- ing is not always valuable; but we should not despise it for that. Those old farmers that always mulled and grubbed, and lived from hand to mouth, worked only by the light of their own experience. Book-farming teacher more in a year than experience does in twenty. Experi- ence finds a short path after a long search for it; learning guides you directly to it." "Well, well," exclaimed the old man, "you can have your own way; but you can't have any patent corn-sheller while I live. That's my work." "Of course he'll let you have that," said the grand- daughter. "I know what makes him jealous," suggested James, good-naturedly. "It was the cut of that patent corn- sheller in the Cultivator. Well, you'll have a winter's work before you next winter, if appearances don't de- ceive." Then turning to me, he said,- "I expect I have upset a good many old notions   324         MYSELF. in your native place with my independent style of farm- ing; but somehow I get the premiums at the fairs, and have as full barns, and corn-houses, and cellars as the best of 'em ; and I don't fret myself, either." "I see, sir, that you are a farmer who understands and loves his profession," said I. "Why not, when it interests and amuses me? A man who sells his hay can take no pleasure in starving his cat- tle. The man that sells the best of his flock takes little pride in those that remain. I make it a point to sell the poorest and keep the best. In that way I have better ani- mals than my neighbors, and am more proud of them. So with my seed. I plant none but the best. I cultivate little land, and cultivate that well. I make pets of every- thing, and they yield me bountifully in return for my kindness. There's a great deal of human nature in the brute, and even in the inanimate creation, as well as in man. If a man pinch and ill treat you, of course you do -not feel like putting yourself to extra pains to oblige him. You graduate your labor to your treatment. So with the brute creation. So with nature. Feed your animals; feed your land; pet them both, and you will receive back double your interest. You'll hardly know the old place here, if you should go over it, and I've been here scarcely four years yet. We'll take a walk over it, after break- fast." "James acts on the motto, 'make home pleasant,'" said the wife, looking at her husband a little proudly. "The true way," was the reply. "What should we make pleasant, if it is not home? I like to make home pleasant," said he, with a smile, " because it pleases the home people. I mean that these little chicks here"-- pointing to the twins--" shall grow up saying wherever they go visiting, ' This home is not so pleasant as our home. Our home is the pleasantest in the world.' " "' For that reason James won't have any show-furniture in the house," remarked the wife, laughing. "He wants every room common, and the best sofa isn't any too good for Carlo to lie on." "That's because Carlo is a fine-mannered- dog,-much cleaner, and nicer, and better-behaved than half the peo- i'   MYSELF.          3  ple I've seen some folks scrape and bow over, and make all manner of parade about. Show-furniture! I hate it. It may do with you city folks, or with people who pinch themselves to death in private in order to appear to ad- vantage in public. My home is for myself and mine. If other people don't like it, they may keep away." "But other people do like it, James," replied the wife. "You know they do. They always like to visit here." "What's the reason of it, wife-eh? Isn't it because it is pleasant and homelike, and not stiff and formal? That's my idea of it. I want to have it so I'll not only be proud of it myself, but others will like it. I want it so that when one comes here, no matter when or how, he'll say, 'They please me up at Parkhurst's.' And I don't want to do it with any attempt at fine living or putting on style or airs; but because we have everything neat and pleasant and cosy about us. That's it, isn't it, Mr. Head?" I bowed in acknowledgment, and said I believed he had hit on the right principle. "So I hold," said he. "it don't cost a cent more to have a flower growing under your window than it does a weed. There's just as much recreation trailing a vine as there is in loafing off to the store, and a great deal more profit. You can have grass growing in your yard just as easily as to have it lumbered up with an old woodpile, and dirt and chips." After breakfast, I accepted his offer to walk over the farm. It was indeed changed from what it was when I knew ith .Under other circumstances it had been a pleasing ramble; but, as it was, the change saddened me. The old Virginia rail-fence that I had set astride so many times was gone, and substantial stone walls took its place. Bushes had been grubbed up; uneven places made smooth; stone heaps carted away; marshes drained and brought to cultivation; piles of compost lay under sheds rotting for next year's use; swine were busy in turning over other piles, in which had been deposited grain and potatoes to stimulate their energy. Thrift was written all over the farm. By-and-by I inquired about my family. Of all my 28   326         MYSELF. brothers, not one remained in the town. Some lived in the town adjoining, others were scattered through New England, and others still had emigrated to the great West.  But what surprised me above all, was the story of Mr. Blake. Dying, he made me his heir! Or, rather, the property was left in- trust to the widow, then to revert to me. This confirmed the belief of the people that I had eloped with Kate, and that on his death-bed Mr. Blake . had repented his conduct and made me his son-in-law,- his heir. The extent of his property astounded all. He died possessed of near ten thousand dollars. To me this freak was more strange than to others. I could not fathom it. "Is it possible," thought I, " that he was deceived into the belief that we eloped together? It is fortunate that I am not dependent upon others for my subsistence; for if Kate has--" I hesitated, even in thought. A week before I would have jumped at such a conclusion as a blessed chance; now the thought that Kate and I should meet no more as lovers, was like the thought that my father and I should no more be reconciled. I meant to say, that if Kate had married another', I would not stand between her and her rightful inheritance; but -I dared not even think that she had married another. I had a lonely day before me that I hardly knew how to spend. I felt that I could not visit the deserted home- stead again. During the forenoon I rambled in the woods, visiting old haunts. I found a tree, in which Kate and I, when children, had plugged locks of our hair. The mark of the auger was nearly obliterated. I obtained an axe, and with a few well-directed blows- laid open the place. The hair was as fresh and beautiful as ever. After dinner I visited the village. The news of my arrival had preceded me. Many came to the village store to greet me. Those whom I had left verging past middle- age were gray haired; others who were boys had become men. There was scarcely one of my old schoolmates to take me by the hand. They either slept in the graveyard or- had wandered away in search of their fortunes else-   MYSELF.          327 where. I recognized but few, and in those the old famil- iar looks had faded. The same storekeeper was there as when I bought tea and sugar for my mother at his counter, paying for them with butter and eggs. He was getting old. Then there was the same letter-rack, for the post-office was still kept at the store, and the mails came daily. I noticed a single innovation. A small wooden build- ing had been erected close by the store, and over the door was the shingle of "Jotham Hopkins, Attorney at Law." Jotham was nearly the first to take my hand and con- gratulate me on my return. After minute inquiries con- cerning my health, and a repetition of the hundred and one questions relative to Kate Blake, he gave me a hint that he should like to see me privately in his office before I left the village. The inside of Jotham's place of business, to which I followed him, was not more attractive than the outside. A few elementary law-books lay on the table; a copy of the New Hampshire Patriot (Jotham was a Democrat) was hanging over the back of a chair. In one corner stood Jotham's bench and kit, showing that in his devotion to --Coke he had not altogether forgotten Crispin. "They tell me you're'n the law, too," said Jotham, seating himself on his bench and motioning me to the chair.  "Well, that's curus! Nobody'd thought it when I defended you in that 'ere schoolus affair. Guess you didn't think on't, n'ither. But you, that's tarnal strange about the Blake gal. Ain't you pulling the wool over us a little--eh? Didn't you run away together, you?" "I have told you," I replied. 'Do you require an oath?" "No; but's tarnal strange. The old man's left you all his money, too. I tell you"-and Jotham began to look mysterious--"I've alus had my doubts." He went to the door to make sure no eavesdroppers were about. "There was somethin' strange about Blake arter you went off. He wa'n't the same man he was before. No more was his wife the same woman. Thinks I, many a time, if Kate didn't gwoff with that Whitehead, then I   328         MYSELF. guess the old man could tell a story that would set the town wild." "What do you mean?" "D'you b'lieve Kate ever run away?" "I believe nothing. I know nothing." ' But I do." "What?"'  "Kate Blake never run away a step." I looked at him earnestly. Jotham hemmed and hawed. Explain." "Don't tell of it, for God's sake, till the thing's sure!" whispered he. "Blake was an awful kurter in the way of temper a. Nat Baxter told me how he raved that night you and Kate sparked it down by the spring." "And Nat,-what has become of him?" "Oh, he's a fadin'. You know he was alus a fadin'. Kept fadin' and fadin' and growin' wus and wus and more foolish every year." Where is he now?" "At the poor-us. He's got so he don't know nothin'. He jest mumbles and jabbers, and laughs as silly as a little baby. He's a pesky sight of trouble,-jest as weak and helpless as when he was born. He's a ter'ble trial." "But you were about to say something about Blake," said I, turning away saddened at the thought how the feeble brain of Nat Baxter had waned until it was flicker- ing like the light of an expiring candle. "Oh, yes, I forgot," said he. "Arter you went off, there was alus somethin' suspicious about Blake. He didn't act jest as he alus did afore, and his actions set me a thinkin'. But folks said'you'd run off together, and I hadn't got no proof that you hadn't. But I chawed on it." I began to have a glimmering of his meaning. My blood began to chill. "You do not mean to say  "I don't mean to say anything. There's no good of setting folks into fits till you know sartin. You know what I'm comin' at. If 'taint so, and Blake didn't, it's almighty strange what's become on her, ain't it? Where did the kurter go to? I tell you, it's sa / He 'ither hit   MYSELF.         329 her an ugly clip over the head when he was mad, or else the gal's heart broke. If I were you, I'd have the bottom of that 'ere sullar dug'n over." The horrible suspicions raised by Jotham were too im- probable for a moment's entertainment. Yet I found my- self shaking like an aspen. "No!"I cried. "No! It can't be! He dared not do that. Mrs. Blake would have divulged it, or died in keeping the secret." "She is dead!" replied Jotham, with imperturbable coolness. I sank back into the chair from which I had risen. "He's dead; she's dead; both are dead," he con- tinued. "Ay, ay "I retorted; "but dying she had con- fessed." "-sh!  Don't talk so loud," expostulated Jotham. "Don't frighten the neighborud. How do you know that she fiasn't confessed?" He was gradually leading me to the preparation for a horrible denouement. "But 'sposin' she didn't confess,' he went on. It's the gineral 'pinion, I know, that people confess their murders when they die; but nobody knows how many die and don't confess." I looked at him hard. There was an expression on his countenance, artfully concealed, indeed, that satisfied me he was playing upon my terrors. He believed nothing of what he was manufacturing. I arose to my feet and breathed free. "Come," said I; " this is too foolish. Kate probably followed my example and ran away, because home was uncomfortable.' I was astonished at the readiness with which Jotham acquiesced in my opinion. "Mebbe! P'raps you're right. Guess you are. But then it is darned strange where she's gone to. If you hear from her ag'in let me know. You will, won't yer?" I turned to leave. "Look here," said he. 28*   330         MYSELF. I turned back with my hand on the door-latch. "I was thinkin', yesterday," said Jotham as I stopped, "how I should manage a leetle affair, but I couldn't 'zactly see my way. When I heard that you'd turned up ag'in, thinks I he's the chap." "Some assistance is wanted in a case you have got?" I replied. "No, by gum! I can manage all the cases I've got. It's a leetle bit of specilation-a trade where a man can make somethin' hansum. But somehow I haven't got the ile. If I'd about fifty dollars more grease now, I'd fix it. There's a piece of land here that can be had at a barg'n. You know that 'ere scrape I got you out of, when you'd been scooped if 't hadn't bin for me. I never charged you anythin'; but thinks I this mornin', if he'd only lend me fifty dollars now on account on't, I'd give him good s'curity,-and-'twould kinder accommerdate me, that's a fact." "How long do you want it?"I asked. Jotham's eyes glistened. "How long kin you let me have it,-good s'curity?" "No matter. You will please not mention it, for I dislike the gossip which the transaction would be sure to create." "A lawyer can hold his tongue,--you know that!" And Jotham grinned, showing his mouth denuded of several teeth. "You don't s'pose, too, that when a feller wants to make a trade, he's goin' 'round to notify folks that he's got the stuff to do it with?" A scrap of paper and a rusty pen were produced, and Jotham wrote a note on demand. I drew an order on the firm of Willis, Hall & Co. "I s'pose you won't charge interest, will yer?" sug- gested Jotham. "It is immaterial." Jotham tore up the note, and though he had to draw on his desk for a new supply of paper, he wrote a second note, stipulating that the loan should be without interest. I was then suffered to take my leave. I returned and dined with the Parkhursts. I felt sick and lonely. The sun was sinking down in   M$YSELF.  331 the west, and a few hours would disclose whether all those I loved in youth were gone. There were as yet no signs that she, for whom I waited, was or would be in the region. The horrible suspicion of Jotham Hopkins, in spite of its improbability, haunted and tormented me. CHAPTER XXX. How I went to my Appointment with Kate Blake and the Adventure I met with, together with an Account of my meeting with my Mother. AT last the sun was set. "Night drew her curtains and pinned them with a star." I stole down to the gate by the road, and, seated on a stone, listened for the rattle of a carriage or the sound of a footfall. How frightfully still! Nothing but the wail of that waterfall! That would never die. I longed for the glare of the gas-lamp-the crowded sidewalk-the whirl, bustle, noise, and excitement of the city. I went onward to the place of meeting, impelled to it, though I felt that I alone would be there. Everything was silent as death close about me. Even the wind failed to ruffle the leaves of the trees. I neared the spring. The water trickled from the earth, singing its quiet tune, as if the world had no sorrows nor disappointments. The dew on the grass was undisturbed. There was no seat, and I clambered a few feet up the bank and threw myself down, and waited silently and patiently as I could for footsteps that I knew I should not hear. Yonder, ill defined through the gloom, was the house in which I was born. It was no longer a home to me. It had given me a silent refusal to its former hospitalities. My father, who had gone to his last narrow home, had closed its doors against me, and they remained closed. My mother had gone to seek a home with her children. There were none to welcome me.   332         MYSELF. Suddenly I was aroused. From afar came an old famil- iar sound-the song of a whippoorwill. I listened eagerly. There was something in that of the olden time. But, alas! the whippoorwill came to mock me. It seemed as though the ill-omened bird was aware of my presence at the spring, for presently it flew down to a rock close by and sat and sang as it did eight years before. For more than an hour I listened to its plaintive cry. Then came a loud shout,- "Halloo!" from the direction of the gate. I replied to it. "Where are you?" asked Parkhurst. "Are you coming in to-night or not?" "By-and-by." "By-and-by! Why, it's near eleven o'clock now. My wife's getting nervous. She didn't know but you had committed suicide." "Pshaw!" "So I say, pshaw but you can't pshaw a woman out of her nervousness. You had better come in." "Well-presently." "What a fool!" muttered I to myself. "She will not come. Her bones, as Jotham intimates, may lie rotting in Parkhurst's cellar. Why shall I remain here?" I flung myself down by the spring and swallowed a hearty draught of the pure liquid; then turned away, leaving it alone with its music. The farmer was awaiting me at the gate. "Maria has been in a tremendous stew. She said you acted very strange to-night." "No doubt I did. Who could do otherwise?" "That's so. Did you hear that whippoorwill? He sings here nearly every night. He's a pet friend of mine, and I didn't know but you might take a notion to kill him." "Why?" "Oh, I don't know; except that it's a passion with city folks to kill everything when they get into the country. Shall we go in? It's near eleven." "No," returned I. "I think I will go back to- night."   MYSELF.         333 333 "What! Not to-night? So late as this?" "Not late for me. I cannot rest, sir. There are too many painful reminiscences here. I would not stay an- other night in your house for your whole farm. Every object, every sound,-that sighing waterfall, that whip- poorwill, all conjure up the dead past. If you will help me harness my horse, I will pay you for your trouble, and leave you." "Pay me! Come, come!" he exclaimed, "don't in- sult me on leaving. You have made my wife nervous, kept me up two hours, and--" "I beg your pardon for all." "Bosh! It's nothing, if you won't insult me by trans- forming me into a tavern-keeper. My dear sir, you've worked yourself up into a pretty miserable condition. I thought a lawyer had pluck. The world is nothing but a game of pitch-and-toss. You threw up, and your coin has disappeared. Come, you had better go in and plunge yourself into bed, imagine you've got a hard case before you, meet it like a man, and-sleep on it." "I cannot; I must run away from these scenes or asso- ciations, or your wife may have good cause for her nerv- ousness.  "The devil! So bad as that? Oh, well, if that's the case, perhaps the best way will be to get rid of you. I don't want a coroner's inquest in my house. But really, sir, I think the exercise of a little native resolution would benefit you." "I will exercise it. I will drive to the railroad, take the early train down, and to-morrow be with my mother. I'm sorry I've been so much trouble to you, and would gladly pay you." "Stop! don't speak of that. You've been rather a pleasant visitor, and I shouldn't wonder if you should be- come a neighbor yet. There's the old homestead waiting for you. Maria, is this you?" Parkhurst's wife had come out with her shawl over her head to meet us. "I was so afraid Mr. Head might do something des- perate," said she, "that I couldn't remain." "He hasn't yet, but I'm afraid he's bent on it," replied   334         MYSELF. her husband.." He insists, Maria, on running away from your hospitalities, and going home to-night." "Oh, no." And then she joined in with her husband to induce me to stay. But I was proof against all their blandishments. So Parkhurst obtained his lantern, and we got out my horse and brought the carriage down to the gate. I stood there bidding them adieu, when the sound of wheels was heard coming up from below. Presently a carriage passed by, taking the road leading up by the spring. I thought I detected a female form leaning down and looking out from under the top, and gazing up at the house on the hill. My heart began to throb. "Stay here," said I to Parkhurst, handing him the reins. A moment more I was following, on a run, the carriage, leaving my companions to wonder at this new and strange freak. The carriage went on some distance ahead of me, until it came nearly abreast of the spring, and then stopped. I ran out of the road to the fence. Through the darkness I saw a man get out, and, crossing the fence, approach the spring. At the same time, I was approaching the spot lower down, the two coming together at an angle, and partially hid from each other by intervening bushes. He walked carefully, as if in search for some spot that had been pointed out to him, but which he had not visited. I crept along stealthily, like a cat, now standing erect, now crouching in the grass, governing my movements by his. Presently he stopped to listen. Then hearing the trick- ling of the water, went on. I was but a few yards away, watching his movements with eagerness. I saw him care- fully unrolling something he carried in his hands. As he crept nearer, he stepped to a clump of bushes, and cut a stick, trimmed it, pointed the end, stuck it in the ground, and proceeded to tie the article I saw him unroll to the upper end. I was standing then directly behind him, near enough to touch him. He had not concluded before, with a convulsive spring, I darted forward, pushing him aside, and clutched the article. It was the scarf which I had made a parting present of to Kate Blake. I could not readily detach it from the stick to which he had tied it; but when I had, and   M $EL, E. MYSELtF 335 looked about for the man, he was fleeing on the full run to his carriage. I know not why it was,-it may have been instinct which leads certain animals to pursue when others flee,- but in an instant I was in full pursuit. He had much the start of me. He went over the fence at a leap. The next bound and he was in the carriage, which had been turned about, and was facing down the road. I ran to cut him off at an angle below. There was some difficulty about starting his horse, and I was on the point of leaping the fence several rods ahead, when my foot caught in a running vine, and I tripped and fell. As I arose, the carriage was dashing past, the horse on a gal- lop. I was close to the fence, but not over. I could not see into the carriage, but I saw-unmistakably saw-a lady's skirts extending out from the side. I ran as fast as I could. I called to Parkhurst to stop the fugitives. When I came up to where I left him, both he and his wife were excited, and the horse he held was bounding back and forth, vainly endeavoring to break away. I paused for no words nor explanations. I caught the reins from his hands, sprang into the carriage, and bid him let the animal go. He called to me to allow him to go along. I answered with a cut of the whip at the horse, that sent him with a great bound out into the road, jerk- ing the hat of Parkhurst from his head as the animal broke from his hold, and leaving that worthy man stand- ing staring and wondering if I were not really stark mad. I never stopped to reason,-not once to think what I was about. I was intent only on overtaking the carriage that I had no doubt contained Kate Blake, and demand- ing of her, or him, or them, whoever they might be, the reason of this extraordinary proceeding. Faster and faster I urged the animal that I drove in pur- suit of the fugitives. A mile, two, three miles were passed, and I saw no traces of them. Had they turned out on an- other road and allowed me to go by? I dashed down a declivity; there was a long reach of straight and level road, beyond which rose another hill. As I struck the bottom, hurrah! there on the hill yonder, painted against   336         MYSELF. the stars, was the carriage I pursued. The animal I drove possessed most excellent bottom. They were scarcely a half-mile ahead. When I arrived at the top of the hill on which they were when I first descried them, I saw the carriage through the darkness, going along a clear, smooth road, with the horse that drew it stretching out at a full trot. I had sensibly 'gained on them. A mile more, and the object of my pursuit was scarcely a length ahead. I began to debate how best- I should bring it to a halt. I resolved on driving alongside, and locking wheels, even at the risk of smashing both car- riages and throwing out the occupants, when the difficulty was solved' by the carriage turning a little out of the road and coming to a halt. In a moment I was alongside. II sprang out of my carriage, and allowed my horse to draw panting up to the fence on the opposite side. The horse of -the other carriage was much blown. - I felt ex- ultant. Why, I know not. It certainly could not have been a pleasant thought that the object of my pursuit was, trying to avoid me. c, Good-evening, sir," said a cheery voice from the car- -riage as I approached. A large, athletic man---the individual who had planted the scarf, like a flag, at the spring--sat leaning forward in his buggy, whipping away at the grass over its side. It was not so dark but that I could distinguish forms; but there was no other form beside him. 'The lady's skirts had vanished. It required no time to comprehend that I had been tricked, overreached, baffled. The woman had been dropped on the road. The attitude and whole appearance of the fellow who sat whipping at the grass denoted it as plainly as if he had told me in so many words. Even in the darkness, I could see, as he whipped, away, playing daintily with the lash, cutting gently here and lightly there, that he was chuckling over my discomfiture. If he had been a hackman, I should have expected to hear him ask, in coachman's slang,- "How are you now, smarty?" But he said nothing. He only kept on whipping at the grass, his horse panting with the drive he had given him.   MYSEZLF.         33 I must have glared on him like a fiend. I remember that I turned my own whip in my hand, and debated whether it were not best to knock him out of the buggy with its butt. "Good-evening, sir," he added again, as I made no answer to his first salutation. "Quite a brisk drive we've had." "Quite," I uttered, crustily. "You will oblige me,- I have not the honor of your acquaintance." "Just what I was thinking about concerning you,- which shows how the minds of great men travel in the same channels." "Never mind about the minds of great men," I re- torted. "You had a lady with you, sir." "Did I? Ah, indeed! When was that?" "Above, yonder, when you left this scarf," said I, pulling it from under my vest, where I had crammed it in the pursuit. "Oh, ah! Yes. Hm! I presume you know. Cer- tainly. Why not?" C"I know you had," I retorted, nettled by the taunting coolness with which he spoke, cracking away with his whip, at the utterance of each word. "That lady was Catharine Blake." "Ah, indeed! Then it is her you want, and not me. I thought, from your demonstrations, you were anxious to see me." "Then undeceive yourself, sir. It is her that I want." "In that case you'll excuse me; and I'll jog along while you hunt her up." And he gathered up his reins preparatory to starting on. I anticipated the movement by taking the animal by the bit. "No, you don't, if you please," I remarked. "I over- hauled you with too much trouble to allow you to depart so easily. In her absence I have to do with you." "Oh, well," he rejoined, coolly throwing down the reins. "I'm in no hurry. The night's pleasant, and I rather like this stand-and-deliver sort of adventure. But I never"-and he broke out into a laugh--" never heard of one being called on to stand and deliver a woman before." 29   338         MYSELF. For the moment I was on the point of bidding both him and his woman to the devil. I was utterly at a loss how to proceed. The complete coolness of the man- for now he had pulled out a cigar and was striking a light with a match on the wheel-was proof against any rash and crazy act on my part. "Do you smoke?" And he extended his cigar-case in my direction. "I thank you, no." And then my course suggested itself. "This is an awkward business, I know," said I. ",As a stranger, you may naturally think me a fool." The fellow absolutely nodded his head-I saw it in the dark-as he threw away his match and went on puffing his cigar. "Exactly," said he. "Exactly." And I laughed a short, convulsive laugh, and wanted to knock his head off with the butt of my whip. "It is open to that objection," said he, puffing away, as I didn't resume on the instant. "Perhaps so; but that's not to the point. You had a lady with you up yonder when you left this scarf. That lady was to meet me at the spring. I had been waiting there all the evening for her. She didn't come. You came instead, and left this. I gave it to her eight years ago. Now I wish to know the meaning of this extraordinary proceeding. You can explain. Where is the lady? How has she disappeared? What is the meaning of her send- ing the scarf back and not coming herself?"      i For a wonder, the man was listening attentively. When I concluded, he 'recommenced puffing his cigar, and whipped away once more at the grass, but said nothing. "Damnation, sir!"I exclaimed, after waiting a mo- ment for him to reply. "There is no reason in this con- duct. I simply ask an explanation. Were you a gentle- man you would give it."  He slowly drew himself up, took his cigar from his mouth, allowed the smoke to ooze away, and said,-- "I profess to be a gentleman, sir, and have no expla- nation to make."    Al YSEL.         339 $39 "But the lady?" said I. "What lady?" "The lady you had with you." "Pish! you are moonstruck. You don't mean it." "I do mean it," I exclaimed. "As I stand here, I saw a lady in your carriage,-both when you passed up and when you passed down." "Perhaps, then, she's here still. Let us search." And he moved as if to turn over the cushions. "My friend," said I, firmly, " you are evidently de- termined to afford me no light on this affair. A half-dozen words would probably be all that is required. You refuse to give them." He nodded his head. "Then allow me to say that I will follow you to the end of the earth-hunt you to the grave, until you recon- sider your determination." "Very well," he laughed; "in that case we'll be bet- ter acquainted. And as you propose to follow, I am pre- pared to lead. Just now I am bound for a place to spend the balance of the night. You will attend me of course. I have your assurance to that effect." He drew up his reins, and though I was strongly in- clined to pull him out of his buggy and chastise him, I let him go on. I stopped awhile debating what I should do. His female companion had evidently been dropped behind. What had become of her? Was she following us on foot? If so, would I meet her if I turned back? The chances were she would hear my carriage and turn out to allow me to pass her in the dark. Then I asked myself if I remained there, would not her companion give me the slip and go back for her? Or was it not probable she would seek shelter at some house and he return for her the next day? I was as weak and foolish as a boy. My resolution as a man was sadly shattered. I got into my carriage resolved to follow, as I had threatened. I pushed on my horse to overtake him, that he might not escape, and shortly after 'had his carriage under my eye just ahead.   340         MYSELF. All the way down I was conscious only of a feverish, cloudy condition of mind. I hardly realized what I was about. I only knew that I was following on somebody's track, and that it was very important to keep him in view. It was two o'clock when we drove up to the hotel where I had obtained my carriage. The man had evidently obtained his at the same place. It required considerable noise to arouse the porter of the hotel, and still more to wake up the sleepy hostler. At last we obtained admit- tance. The attendant motioned us to the register. "Now," thought I, as we stepped forward, "I have him." I had prided myself on my stature, but he was taller than I and every way well proportioned. There was a tremendous amount of latent brain-power underneath that quiet demeanor. As I handed him a pen he mo- tioned with a courtly gesture for me to register my own name first, which I did, writing out my name and address with a bold hand. ' As he took the pen to follow, and glanced at my signature, he turned and looked full at me. If astonishment was ever written on any man's face it was written on his. But he made no other sign. With a single dash across the page he threw down the pen. I stepped forward and read,-- "H. K. W. HEAD,Boston, and friend." The words, "and friend," were his. I bit my lip.  . Baffled again!    - "Separate rooms?" asked the attendant. "Two beds and one room," said I. My companion bowed. When we retired I locked the door and put the key under my pillow. He regarded me i queerly but said nothing. We hardly exchanged a half- dozen words. Presently he was sound asleep,-or at least I thought he was. I slipped quietly out of bed, intent on searching his clothes for a letter or something that might afford me a clue to his name. He turned over and said, quietly,-- "I guess I wouldn't. I anticipated that, and threw everything bearing my address away." I went back to bed, and, exhausted, worn out, after a   MYSELF.         341 time I slept. When I awoke it seemed mid-day. The street was full of life and bustle. The windows were up but the blinds closed. The key that I put under my pillow was gone. So was my companion. I looked at my watch. It was near nine. My head throbbed and beat like a trip-hammer. I arose, dressed, and went down. My friend sat smoking in the office with his heels on a chair-back, watching the passers in the street. He saluted me pleasantly and with a smile. I( You appeared so worn out," said he, "I thought it a pity to disturb you." When I went to my breakfast I put a coin in the hands of a waiter and bid him bring me immediate notice if he attempted to depart. The precaution was needless. I found him in the same attitude when I came from the breakfast-room. I went to him, and as politely as he had accosted me, said,- {' If you will oblige me, I would see you in private." ( Certainly. I would be most happy." We went to our room. As we entered, he said,- "Look here, my friend. I understand precisely what you desire. I think I appreciate your case, and appre- hend your situation thoroughly. It is well we should understand each other. You want information. I can't give it." "For the reason--" "Simply that I am bound in honor to withhold it." I looked at him intently. He evidently intended just what he said. There was nothing-malicious in his appear- ance. It was simply an expression firmly but temperately, of something to which he honestly intended to adhere. His manner was rather kind than otherwise. "The person to whom you are bound," I said, "is Miss Blake." "That's your surmise," he replied. "I shall neither confirm nor deny it." "Is Miss Blake a friend of yours?" No answer. "Do you mean to say," I asked, " that you will abso- lutely afford me no information?" 29*   342         MYSELF. "Most religiously. I say to you, sir,-and do it kindly, -I am in honor bound to complete silence. It is no use to pump me; I am proof against all your art in cross-ex- amination. It is equally useless to quarrel, for really it isn't worth your while." "But," said I, "can you not give me a single clue to this strange business? I am utterly at a loss to tell why the scarf was returned without any other message." "It is quite plain to me," was the reply. "'If a young lady returned my presents I think I should understand what it meant." It was a blow directly in my face. "But," said I, affecting not to understand, "why no message?" "Well, sir, on that point I can afford you no light, for if I knew I would not tell. Not knowing, I will use the Yankee privilege and help you by guessing." "Very well. Guess." "You are the heir of the late Mr. Blake." "Well." "A daughter has been disinherited." I started as if shot. "I thank you for your guessing," I returned. I con- fess the events of the past few days have quite unsettled me. I am very, very dull of comprehension." "Recollect, I have said nothing that I know," he re- marked. "If I knew I would not say. I only guess, and I may guess wrongly." "Right or wrong," said I, "the charge shall not re- main against me. I learned yesterday for the first time this matter of Mr. Blake's will. I will soon settle that." I rang for stationery, and had a full renunciation of the bequest written out and ready to sign. I told him what I had done, and asked him to witness it. He shook his head. "The landlord would be a better witness. I have con- stitutional scruples about signing my name just now." We went down, and the landlord witnessed my renun- ciation. "Now," said I, "be pleased to present this to Miss Blake,--or, if married, she that was Miss Blake,-and say i   MYSELF.         343 to her I am very sorry she resorted to this mode to avoid a meeting. I would have been much pleased had I met her, even if it were only as a friend. Say to her that I wish her life-long happiness." There was a great pang at my heart. "Say to her that although the sentiment she held in youth may have changed, I am deeply grieved to find that she avoids me as an enemy, when I would be a warm and lasting friend. Say to her that if it be not asking too much, I would like to see her, as almost the only one of the remaining friends and acquaintances of my youth. Now, sir," and I offered my hand, which he grasped, "I have to beg your pardon for all the annoy- ance to which I have subjected you. Yours was a singular mission, and you have had, doubtless, as you think, a queer adventure. Should we ever meet again--" "I have no doubt that we shall be the best of friends," said he, shaking my hand very heartily. "I hope so. Good-by." "Good-by, sir. You go to Boston?" ' The next train. Your route--- "Lies the other way." And so we parted. I took the noon-train to Boston. I went through the city without stopping, and the same evening was clasped to the heart of my mother. She received me almost as one risen from the dead. I will not attempt to describe the meeting,-how she held me in her arms, and wept over me, and thanked the Good Maker that I had been preserved while away from home, and returned to her at last. All the evening I sat by her side and listened to her voice. She told me everything. She told me how my father regretted his rash command,-how it embittered the remainder of his life, and how he went down to the grave mourning a son lost because driven away by him from his home. Then she told me about Mr. -Blake,-how, shortly after I left, he went one day very suddenly to the seminary that Kate attended, and that shortly after he returned it was reported that Kate had disappeared. He never mentioned the matter himself, and Mrs. Blake evaded inquiries, and   344         MYSELF. when questioned changed the subject as soon as possible. -People generally concluded we had eloped together, but my mother was of a contrary opinion. That opinion was obtained from the manner of Mrs. Blake, and also from the manner of Mr. Blake himself. The latter made many friendly advances toward my father. Though he was haughtily repelled, he seemed actuated with a desire to repair in a manner the mischief he had caused. Before he died, he sent for my father and asked his forgiveness for his harshness, and said he had only done what he had considered his duty, and he hoped he would be able to make amends to me for his seeming cruelty. After his death, and when the disposition he made of his property became known, the mode he had adopted for making amends was understood. It was then that my father insisted we had eloped together. Mrs. Blake soon after moved away to some relatives in Massachusetts, and the Parkhursts bought the place. My own father died the following year. My mother remained on the old homestead, hiring a family to move into the house and carry on the farm. None of the brothers would consent to go back to it and undertake to remove the incumbrances, and at last, disheartened, she gave it up and went to reside with her children. She had been here a year. I soon ascertained that it was her de- sire to return to the old homestead, and I at once resolved to secure it to her. It was wonderful how that meeting with my mother re- stored me to myself. While with her all else was as no- thing. She was altered, it is true,--older, but she was more beautiful with her age. I felt, as I sat by her side, and held her hand in my own, that my troubles were over. I was, as it were, a boy once more. The conflict of love and passion which had so raged-within me for the past few days, the grief and agony of my return to the old home- stead, the disappointment at not meeting with Kate Blake, appeared to have floated off into the dim distance, and were like the faint mutterings of a thunder-shower that had swept by and left the atmosphere sweetened and puri- fied in its passage, All was peace. I felt saddened at the death of my father; but the tumult of love was gone. I   MYSELF.          345 even smiled at my weakness, and began to question if I should ever look on woman again as I had looked on Kate Blake and Miss Willis. I felt that I had learned a terrible lesson in life. My experiences had been bitter, but they had resulted in profit. I began to see the hollowness and vanities and emptiness of many things that in the past I had considered as the brightest of realities. I found that there were changes in the world to be prepared for,-and disappoint- ments to be encountered. The dreams I had dreamed for eight years were like Dead Sea apples. They had turned to ashes on my lips. I felt prepared to go back to my pro- fession, content to act my part in the drama of life as became a man denuded of all his boyish dreamings and his lover-like longings and passions. I remained with my mother and brother two days. Meantime there came a letter stating that Jotham Hop- kins had purchased the mortgage on the old homestead and foreclosed on the property. This was Jotham's " spec- ilation," to assist him in which I had loaned him fifty dollars. The assurance of the fellow amused me. I knew well that the property could be redeemed, and that Jotham could make nothing of me. His only chance must have been in buying up the claims against the property at a dis- count. This proved to be the truth. The rascal readily divined that I would redeem it. He knew, too, that it was encumbered beyond its value, and that if it was allowed to go to sale, the creditor would suffer, and there- fore would be glad to compromise at a sacrifice. He was sharp enough and quick enough to drive his bargain before the other party obtained information of my return. It was done the very afternoon I loaned him the money. After settling with my mother and brother for their re- turn to the old homestead, I left them, went back to Bos- ton, arranged for a week's further absence,'and then once more visited my native village. The Parkhursts welcomed me back again, congratulating me on my improved appearance. "Rather an abrupt parting," said Parkhurst, with a grin; "you didn't even stop to kiss your hand to my wife."   346         MYSELA. "I hadn't time," I replied, grimly. "Pray who was that in the other carriage, Mr. Head?" asked Mrs. Parkhurst, with the usual curiosity of women. "What I was trying to ascertain," said I. The wife exchanged glances with her husband, and both looked as if there-was an important mystery locked up in that singular transaction. "There's a long story connected with that adventure," I added, " not very pleasant, and of more interest to my- self than perhaps to any one else." Again they looked at each other. "I don't wish you to think ill of me," said I, " for I expect we shall maintain quite an acquaintance hereafter. My mother is going to return to the old place." They were both well pleased to hear it, and so I turned their attention away from the affair. Jotham Hopkins met me with a good deal more com- posure than I anticipated. When I upbraided him for his conduct, he said,- "Gaul darn't, it didn't do you no harm! 'T didn't  cum out of you. You'd a had to pay the hull morgije, anyhow. I on'y managed to make a spec outer old Key- ser; and I cal'late I'll throw off a leetle on the interest to kinder accommerdate you, seein' as how you did a good thing by me." And so I allowed the rascal to have his own way. All the while we were drawing the papers Jotham was chuck- ling over the success of his scheme. "By gum! I cal'late I got a leetle ahead of old Key- ser 'bout the slickest you ever did see!" The affair was rendered the more tolerable from the fact that the original holder of the mortgage was noted as a hard and unfeeling creditor. The last that I heard of Jotham, as I left him, he was chuckling,- "Didn't I cum it over old Keyser, you? By gum!" I redeemed the homestead; reopened the old house; set carpenters and painters and whitewashers at work; and while they were in, the midst of their renovations my mother arrived. She protested against many of the alter- ations, and said it would not be like the old house; but, when all was concluded, she confessed that it was more   M YSELF.         347 347 like the old house than ever. I made several visits to Boston before everything was completed, and then I took final leave of my mother and my brother and family, and went back to my work., What a change had been effected in my feelings the few weeks that I had been absent! With what a subdued temperament did I settle down to my old place in the law-office! Mr. Hall remarked that I had be- come twenty years older in my deportment since I went away. I told him of the changes I found at my old home, and how all my dreams of creating a sensation on my re- turn there had been dashed to pieces. He said he didn't wonder that I was so quiet. "After all," said he, " there is nothing in life but labor. We commence to labor the moment we enter it, and we labor on until we make our exit. Some labor for one thing and some for another,-some for fame and others for subsistence." CHAPTER XXXI. How I attended Commencement at Harvard, and had a Quarrel with Mr. Willis. COMMENCEMENT week at Harvard University arrived. It is a great event with Bostonians. With them there is but one university in the country, and its name is Harvard. Agassiz, and Longfellow, and Holmes, and Joel Parker are the only great men whom they worship. The celebration of the Association of the Alumni was the feature of the week. The address was to be delivered by a distinguished orator; the poem by Lowell. I gave a reluctant assent to the solicitations of Ned Whiting and his sister to attend. I had never been to any com- mencement exercises, and although I felt much like stick- ing to the office, I rather wished to be present. Anderson was to be the fourth of the party; but, when the time came, business engagements prevented, which led Ned to remark that Anderson was a devout worshiper of the   348         MYSELF. Almighty; and when I looked at him he laughed, and said,- "But it is the ' almighty dollar,' though." I excused Anderson on the ground that he was the junior partner of the firm, and it was quite probable he remained at home that his associates might attend. "A business man's time is not always at his command, and you should be more charitable." "I stand corrected!" replied Ned. "But I like the old associates so well that I hate to lose their company." We found a crowd of visitors at Cambridge ;. and the exercises were very interesting. The address was one of great beauty and power. Mr. Willis and daughter were present, accompanied by the Virginian, Blood, who followed the latter as closely as her shadow. Ned managed to place himself in their way, and came back and informed us that a company of friends had been invited to ride round to Mr. Willis's country- seat after the dinner, and that we were included. I felt like, declining, but Bell wished to accept, and I yielded. I cannot deny that deep down in the bottom of my heart there lurked an inclination to go, notwithstanding pru- dence suggested that I would be better away. I barely saw Miss Willis during all the exercises. Her attention was much engrossed by some of the magnates; and when she was relieved from them, the Virginian was at her elbow. It was no hardship for me to avoid her; but Bell exhibited a sense of Miss Willis's neglect, while Ned's anathemas of her " second shadow" were positively ludicrous. I thought Mr. Willis's acknowledgment of me was singularly formal. It was freezingly polite, but I was aware of his singularities, and allowed it to pass. The oration was the greatest topic of remark by the company.   Some admired; others condemned.  The orator had evidently improved on Bacon's hint, and had not delivered knowledge in such a form as to be best be- lieved, but to be best examined. It was an eminently suggestive performance, and stirred the ideas of those per- sons who had ideas, while those who had none could only say, "It may be vastly fine, but we don't see it." Bell Whiting made no pretensions at criticism; but   MYSELF.          349 the differences of opinion expressed by those about us led her to ask of me an explanation. She was a girl always willing to be instructed, and from the date of my acquaint- ;; ance was one with whom I could always converse freely and familiarly. "Perhaps," said IX " it is because of the various minds of those who listened to it. Minds are no more alike than faces. The practical mind requires a full-shaped thought. Nothing must be left to imagination. The contemplative mind asks for half-developed thoughts- thoughts suggesting thought. Such a riind loves a master to sketch the outlines thlatit may fill up the details for itself. You can readily perceiveireat minds so differently constituted will differ in their estimates of any perform- ance. " e I see," replied Bell; " but I think few men would be content to sketch outlines merely, leaving Tom, Dick, and Harry to fill up the picture as they please." "Did it ever occur to you that it is precisely for this reason that we have so few great masters of thought in the world? Emersony commends Plato because Plato fur- nishes Emerson with outlines. So others commend Bacon and Aristotle. Some minds are like watches ready wound up, but requiring some other mind to set them in motion, when they will run on for hours and days of their own accord. They think the credit is due to him who touched them off. In some measure it is; for what value is a watch, though wound up, if it be not set in motion?" "The simile is good," remarked Ned, who had been watching for the procession, which was on its way to the hall where the dinner was provided. "It has set my mind in motion, and suggests that men should wear their minds like their watches, for use and not for show." "That's not original, Ned," replied Bell, banteringly. "I recollect of reading it that men should wear their learning like their watches." "There it, goes!" he ejaculated, with a gesture and countenance bordering on the ludicrous. "One can't utter a sensible idea nowadays, but he is accused of stealing it." "Give credit, then," replied his sister. 30   350         M YSELF. "That is only making the matter worse,--for then you are pedantic." "Oh, well, do as the old man and the boy did with the donkey, in the fable,-first please one and then the other." "Then I'd be the ass and not the old man and the boy," said he. "What say you, who are so philosophical to-day?" He addressed me. "I don't know," I replied. "If you quote liberally at first, though they accuse of pedantry, they must acknowl- edge you well read. Having gained that character, you can then afford to steal." "Right, my boy!" he exclaimed. "A disciple worthy of John Littlegood, who claims with Solomon that there is nothing new under the sun, not even a new idea." The procession having reached the hall, we pressed our way with the crowd to the tables. Our seats were located but a short distance from those occupied by Mr. and Miss Willis, and the friends by whom they were surrounded. After we had become seated, Bell had more questions to ask. "Why is it, Mr. Head, that we have so few men of great learning? I have read a foreign writer who re- marked of us, that if our learned men were singled out we would be astonished to find how few there are; but if the ignorant are counted, the American population appear to be the most enlightened in the world." "I cannot tell," I replied, carelessly, "unless the fault lies with our own literature." "How so?" asked the Virginian, who was seated oppo- site,-the nearest point he could gain to Miss Willis. "You Yankees do not lack for literature; for surely with you of the making of books there is no end." "And yet," said I, "this multiplicity of books may retard rather than accelerate the acquisition of great knowledge. As there are few among us with such little time and means that they cannot gather some knowledge from them, so there are few with so much time and means as to gather out of all of them extensive knowledge." "I cannot see how it can be so," remarked Bell; "for our opportunities and means are indeed great."   M-YSELF.         35 "It may be," said I. "But in a vast sea of mediocrity one may dive many times before he will light on the oyster which contains the pearl he seeks. It may be pos- sible in a few excellent volumes to gain much information; yet what chance has the seeker to light upon it among so many?" "Oh, there is scarcely a book, if rightly read, but may teach us something," rejoined Bell. "Undoubtedly; and I have heard a similar argument used in the employment of teachers in our schools. There are none so poor but may be capable of imparting some instruction. It was the argument of a superficial econo- mist who thought a dollar per month was so much saved, -although his children might gain the less information." "Pray do not misinterpret me," said she. "I did not intend so ridiculous a thing as to compute the value of a book by the price it brings." "Of course not," said I. "I was simply illustrating. If the illustration was misunderstood, it was owing to its muddiness. Allow me to ask you if the little wisdom and information to be obtained from many of our books will repay the search? Who would distill sea-water for salt, when it may be obtained cheaper in another way? Political economists tell us that an opinion of plenty is often a great cause of want. So a great quantity of books may make a fancied rather than a real addition to knowl- edge." "Bacon!" uttered a voice below me, and on turning my head I beheld John Littlegood, who had partially brushed the rust from his clothes and managed to afford an indulgence in the entertainments of the day. Ned sat on the right of his sister, and reaching around her gave me a punch in the ribs. The Virginian observed nothing, and went on to remark,- "A multiplicity of books begets a multiplicity of ideas and inquiries." "And is not a multiplicity of ideas and inquiries often a bar to greatness?"I asked. "A man may be proficient in many things, but at the same time great in nothing. A few ideas pursued to the end lead to greatness, rather than many ideas pursued loosely and traced to no end."   352         M\ SELF. "I must confess," returned the Virginian, "that you are the first Yankee I have heard who argued against a univer- sality of literature. Would you cut off further publica- tion?" "By no means. I would only countenance the making of more good books, that might swallow up the poor ones, as Aaron's rod swallowed up those of the magi- cians.  "I should be afraid," said Ned, "that the poor books would choke out your good ones, as weeds are likely to overrun and choke out the grain." "You forget, sir," remarked a gentleman who sat within ear-shot, and who appeared to be connected with the col- lege, " that we have cultivators both of knowledge and grain, whose duty is to root up the weeds. The simili- tude is bad, inasmuch as weeds'are indigenous to the soil and the grain exotic, while the love of knowledge is in- herent in the minds of all mankind." "That being the case," I remarked, " is it not impor- tant that we apply to the right sources for our information, seeing that an appetite for books grows with the rpeat it feeds upon? There are mental natures that, like the physical, will not be satisfied to subsist on innutritious food if, by seeking, they can find better." "Nevertheless, sir," replied the gentleman, "I think yours is a sweeping philosophy that would find little ad- vocacy outside of certain schools. You indirectly advo- cate a censorship of the press." "And would cut off newspapers," added the Vir- ginian. "On the contrary, I would only improve and elevate the press and newspaper. As a disseminator of passing events, and recorder of new inventions, discoveries, and experiments, the newspaper is to the world what the clerk is to the legislative body. Its transcript is fresh and original." "I see," said the gentleman, " you accord to the news- paper no more importance than was accorded to the an- cient scribe who multiplied parchments without adding to the knowledge they contained." "Not quite. There are those who subsist on newspa   MYSELF.          353 pers mentally, as the stormy petrel subsists on the thin film of oil that is skimmed from the northern seas. The ilewspaper gathers the dust from Nature's mint, in which the reader may find many particles of fine gold. Witl these particles a master-mind may fashion a rich philoso- phy, rivaling the apprentice who, from rejected bits of glass, fashioned so beautiful a cathedral window that his master died of envy and mortification. In recording in- ventions and experiments, the newspaper furnishes to men of genius missing links in their chains of study and ob- servation. Two master-minds in different quarters of the globe may have hit upon different parts of an invention. Being recorded by the newspaper, a third, who has the missing part, unites the whole, and the chain is complete. So in agriculture and science. Two men record unsuc- cessful experiments both made to the same end, but with different materials. A third party compounds the mate- rials, and produces the desired result. The newspaper is the receptacle of fragments, and from these fragments may be culled those which join, and a beautiful whole be formed. As all new discoveries are the result rather of accident than study, the newspaper may be termed the spade with which men turn over the unexplored ground of science, and expose the rich gems that are scattered, sparsely indeed, beneath the surface." At this point the President of the day rapped the tables to order, announced the introduction of the intellectual repast, and called up the toastmaster. I leave this por- tion of the entertainment to the reporters of the Boston press, who did it ample justice, I have not a doubt. In due season we withdrew from the hall, and, seated in our carriage, Bell, Ned, and myself were bowling off towards the country-seat of Mr. Willis. "Well!" exclaimed Ned, throwing himself at ease back on the seat, " if you call this sweating process of to-day a pleasure, I am happy that such pleasures come only once a year. By-the-by, Head, you seemed peculiarly happy, and talked metaphor with the best of them. I was aston- ished at you." "You know what Curran said," I replied. "He only talked metaphor when he couldn't talk sense." 30*   354         MYSELF. "By George! That gives me an idea,-why my news- paper articles were no better received," said Ned. '(I wrote metaphor." "Pray, gentlemen, of-what are you talking?" asked Bell. "Of the wisdom of the ancients?" replied Ned, pull- ing out his cigar-case, and proceeding gravely to a light. Ned's evasion of his sister's question was a fortunate thing for me. Ignorant men are generally confident in their assertions; but when men begin to know something they distrust everything, and have no confidence even in their own knowledge. I was in that condition expressed by Pope, where "a little learning is a dangerous thing." I handled it in a way that, for aught I knew, it might cut my own fingers. I knew not whether I talked sense or nonsense at the dinner-table. I am afraid if Bell Whiting had been aware of the poor estimate I placed on my judgment of the subjects on which I had conversed, her estimate of me would have fallen greatly. If she had known that I was ignorant whether I had talked sense or nonsense, I think she would have been excessively shocked,-first, at my ignorance of what constitutes sense, and then at my assurance in at- tempting to pass as current coin that which I thought might perhaps be counterfeit. But it is the nature of women to be confiding, and Bell had great confidence in -me. All I did or said was perfectly proper. .Of Ned, however, she exercised a sister's privilege of constant over- sight. When she saw him pull out his cigar-case, she exclaimed,- "I hope you are not going to smoke in the carriage!" "Why not?" "It is abominable. I think smoking disfigures a gen- tleman. I'd as soon see an otherwise well-dressed man out at the elbows." "Both would be bad habits, wouldn't they, sis?" re- plied Ned, leisurely throwing away the match with which he had lighted his cigar. Then he put his heels up on the cushions of the seat opposite him, leaned back, and puffed away with the utmost satisfaction. It was only for a single moment, though. He caught the expression of-suffering   MYSELF.          355 on his sister's face,-tobacco smoke was extremely dis- agreeable to her,-and on the instant flung his cigar into the road, and threw his cigar-case after it. "Why, what have you done?" asked Bell, in surprise. "Done smoking," he replied; "what I ought to have done before I commenced. I beg pardon, sister mine," he said, kindly, "for giving you a moment's pain. I am always so unthinking." "Me? Bless you, Ned, I didn't complain!" "But your face did, and, as you say, it's a nasty habit. Mr. Head never smokes; why should I?" The incident is hardly worth relating, did it not illus- trate the character of Ned Whiting better than I could describe it otherwise. Intent on his own enjoyment, he would not pursue it a moment when he realized that it gave pain to his sister. Such was his brotherly affection. His impulsive, inconstant temperament was shown in his throwing away his cigar-case and buying another the next day! He even accepted a cigar from one of the company at Mr. Willis's, and enjoyed it with great gusto-out of the reach of Bell's influence. Shortly after, Ned asked me if I had heard the news about our mutual friend, Miss Pike. I replied in the neg- ative. "She's turned to stone," said he. "Indeed!"I returned. "She's married," said Bell, "to Nehemiah Stone, the architect." "And has become the corner-stone of the fellow's hap- piness," added Ned. "She has married excellently well," resumed his sister. "In that respect she has made out much better than I fear Miss Willis is likely to, if report be true." I had heard reports respecting Miss Willis since my re- turn to Boston in connection with the Virginian, and though I gave them little credence, Bell's remark was chilling, but it interested me. "That Virginian,-ugh!" exclaimed Ned. "Who can imagine such an alliance?" Then with a good-natured grimace, though there was a slight flush or blush on his cheek, he remarked, "I consider it almost a personal re-   $56         MYSELF. flection to have a girl carried right out from under our noses by such a fellow. - But, heigh-ho! I suppose Blood will tell." "I understand Blood has told," laughed Bell. "At any rate, the report comes from him and not from her." We found quite a party assembled at Mr. Willis's. We had been driven leisurely, and our driver at our request had taken a circuitous route, so that we arrived somewhat late. Some of the earlier ones had taken possession of the veranda, and were busy discussing the merits of the day's performance. As we joined them there had been a pretty general applause of some remark of Miss Willis. "So you are not a slave to fashion?" said one of the gentlemen to her. "I hope at all events not a blind one," she replied. "Fashion gives us no privilege to violate the laws of Na- ture, and we cannot do so and still possess health and happi- ness, more than you can leave the traveled road with your carriage and find smooth riding across the fields and pas- tures. " "An excellent illustration," remarked a second gentle- man. "Granted," replied the first. "Still there is a pleasure in following fashion that many people cannot find in any- thing else. Mankind is so constituted that it will seek pleasure where it can find the most of it." "So will the moth seek the light where it can find the most of it," said Miss Willis, " and gets its wings singed in consequence. Your argument would make -man no wiser than an insect. It is an axiom in mechanics that what is gained in power is lost in time. May it not also be an axiom that what we gain in pleasure we lose in health and strength? A day of rioting is followed by an- other of wretchedness. Nature is unwillingly forced from her balance. What you compel her to yield to you to-day, she will stint you of to-morrow." "Do I understand you to say that men should not seek all the pleasure and happiness they are capable of obtain- ing?" asked one. "That depends on the character of the pleasure. We have no right to violate Nature to obtain it. We know   MYSELF.          357 how the air is formed of oxygen and nitrogen,-the one a deadly poison alone, but harmless when mixed with the other. Has not Nature mixed pleasure and pain in the same way?" "It is a suggestive idea," said the gentleman. "And may it not be one worthy of investigation? He who obeys Nature, will, at the close of life, be able to sum up more happiness than he who obeys art that violates Nature?" "But art," remarked her opponent, " often improves Nature." "Never!" replied Miss Willis. ," Art assists Nature, but we cannot improve her." Here the Virginian, who had placed himself as near Miss Willis's chair as he could get, and was standing par- tially leaning over her, remarked,- "I do not 'agree with you that art cannot improve Na- ture. " She demolished him with a single blow. "Sir, I am sorry. It must be because we all do not see alike. Nature is God; and he who argues that art can improve the works of God, argues that the creature is greater than the creator." Her opponent was silenced, the general voice decreeing in favor of Miss Willis. A walk about the garden and grounds was proposed, and I had the satisfaction of observing the attentions of the Virginian declined by Miss Willis, who accepted those of a gray-haired man of science. All were enthusiastic in their admiration of the taste and beauty of the place, and the art displayed in laying out the grounds, and they extolled the choice of avoca- tions by Miss Willis. It was indeed a sylvan retreat that any-one of the company might well envy. Late in the day I wandered out into the garden. The shadows began to darken the walks, and in passing through the summer-house I unexpectedly encountered Miss Willis, who was returning from the conservatory with some ex- otics, and had been arranging them on one of the benches. She was alone. We could not well avoid speaking. Both were embarrassed, for our thoughts ran instinctively back   358         2MYSELF. to the meeting some six weeks previous in the same spot. "I will not detain you," said I, politely, but with a touch of sarcasm; "for experience has taught me the futility of detaining a woman against her will." "You judge harshy," said she, with her eyes averted; "'and yet, perhaps, you are justified.' I deserve the re- proach." "Yet you had your excuse. What right had I to de- tain you, who interested you not? There was another; allow me to congratulate you. " Notwithstanding the fading light, I saw that she blushed the deepest scarlet. Nevertheless, she assumed an air of ignorance. "You speak in riddles. I cannot say that I understand you." "Perhaps not. It is something hard to be understood, even by others." Miss Willis showed more and more her embarrassment. "It has been very prettily done," I continued, in a tone of pleasant raillery, and yet my pent-up feelings were striving to burst their fetters. "You have my very best wishes for the full enjoyment of your conquest." "And mine, too, sir!" said Mr. Willis, who had ap. proached unperceived. "Mary, your absence may be noticed. As for you, Mr. Head, why do you arraign a daughter of mine? What cause have you to reproach her?" "None," I replied, haughtily. "Yet she stood like a culprit before you." "It was all a mistake, father," interposed Miss Willis, who disregarded his intimation that her presence was needed with her company. "It all grew out of that foolish rumor about the Virginian." It seemed as if Miss Willis had been relieved of a heavy burden. But her father wasnot to be lightly shaken off. "I care nothing for that. What right has he to arraign any one,-he who plights his faith to an innocent girl, only to break it when he finds one more attractive?" Miss Willis's flowers dropped from her hand. She sank back several paces, affrighted.   MYSELF.          359 "Father! oh, what have you done?" she imploringly cried. "I can't help it! I know of no confidence in dealing with such perfidy as his!" "But here!" she cried. "This place! the occasion! You forget, father! I beseech you!" "I'm deaf!" he retorted. "I shall speak. I shall not be silent, even here." The countenance of Miss Willis underwent a change as sudden as a flash of lightning. She was no longer a sup- pliant. Seizing his arm, she breathed, rather than uttered, with an air of resolute determination,- "He is my guest, father, and I will protect him even from you. Speak, and I will speak. If you will have a scene, I will add to it. I tell you, sir, you are wrong! Another word, and I will be silent no more!" These words wrought as remarkable and rapid a change in Mr. Willis as his- words had in her, but the change was just the reverse. As her spirit rose, his subsided. The whole scene was so unexpected and astonishing, that I could only remain a spectator. At length I became conscious that something was due from me. I saw that the disclosures, personal to myself, which I had made to Miss Willis, disclosures that should have remained sacred with her, had been communicated to her father. Why they should affect him I knew not, and cared not. I felt that Miss Willis had been guilty of a breach of honor and honesty, and I hardly knew towards which I ought to feel the greatest indignation,-the daughter who betrayed me, or the father who reproached me. "I hope," said I, with a disdain that I was far from affecting, " that if there is anything to be explained or settled between us, it will be done at once. Having gone so far, the sooner the sore is laid open the better." "Not here, Mr. Head, not here!" uttered Miss Willis. "As you will," I replied, haughtily; "-but you will ex- cuse me from further trespassing on your hospitality. I will rid you of a presence that I perceive is offensive."  "No one said that,-no one said it was offensive, Mr. Head. No words, father," she uttered, as he would have retorted. "There are people on the portico. No more   360         MYSELF. words I Are we brawlers? No! no  no! Mr. Head, you must not leave us! Oh, I beg it as a favor! Come, father, come!. Shall we not go in?" She was very excited. Mr. Willis half turned on his heel as his daughter laid hold of his arm. "Yes. This is no place for business like ours. I thank you, my daughter, for reminding me of it. But"-and he turned on me fiercely--" rest assured, sir, that I shall find place and opportunity for saying what must now be left unsaid. I hope, sir, I can see you to-morrow, when I will fully explain myself." "I will endeavor to be at your service any moment you v prefer," I returned. "I trust that I shall at all times be able to defend my conduct, and repel any unwarrantable interference with it." In other localities this would have sounded very much like the prelude to a duel. It may be that Miss Willis apprehended such an affair; for that moment I saw her gasp for breath, and clutch at her zone. I caught her regl- ing form, and supported her to a seat. She did not fully swoon. Rallying, she murmured, "Oh, Heaven! is this fatality? Must there forever be misunderstanding and war?" I was bending over her. As she opened her eyes and observed me, she motioned-me away. "Go! go! As, you pity our wretchedness, leave us!" I could do no less than obey, and passed into the house. I sought Ned Whiting, and begged that we might return to the city. Ned would listen to no such proposition. He was on the point of sitting down to a game of piquet, and he entertained no intention of foregoing its enjoy- ment. "But, my dear sir." "But me no buts. You're out of your head. I won't hear a word of it."  Just then his sister came up, and announced that the Virginian had gone off in a huff, because Miss Willis had so cut him up in the discussion on the comparative merits of Nature and art, and slighted his attentions when he would have escorted her about the grounds. 'Hurrah!" cried Ned, suppressing his voice so that it   MYSELF.         36i did not reach the drawing-room. "I like to see Blood run in that way. And here's a Head begging to be off! What's the row? Have you, too, felt the keen edge of Miss Willis's scimitar?" "Where is Miss Willis?" asked Bell. "Oh, here she comes, from the flower-garden!" Away she ran to meet her and Mr. Willis as they en- tered the hall, relieving me of any necessity of explana-. tion or subterfuge. Miss Willis went directly to her chamber, while her father halted in the hall, which he paced back and forth in a manner that betrayed his agitation. And as if this were not enough, he suddenly stopped, flung himself into a seat and clasped his hands to his brows. Ned was so intent on watching for his place at piquet, that he did not observe him. I hurried him away, saying I would remain. "That's a good fellow! I thought you would think better of it." When he was gone, I advanced to Mr. Willis. He started at my touch, and his brow darkened as he ob- served who was the intruder. "You will pardon me," said I. "I came to remind you of the proprieties of the occasion demanding self- possession from you at all risks. I am no suppliant for your good opinion, sir, but I am interested in your repu- tation. For the present you belong to your company, and have no right to allow your own grievances to step between you and them." He gazed at me with astonishment. Then bowing stiffly, he rose and walked into the drawing-room. My words had their full effect. My next steps were up the stairs in pursuit of Miss Willis; but I was too late-she was already returning, and only that she was quite pale, none would have divined that aught unpleasant had happened. Her composure piqued as well as surprised me. I hoped to display a superior self-control, and for once to enforce on her a practical lesson. But she was equal to me. She was even my superior; for hers was a greater trouble, and she was a woman. She exclaimed, as she met me,-- 31   362         MYSELF. "You have come at the right moment, Mr. Head. I left some flowers in the summer-house, as you pass through going to the conservatory. Will you please go bring them for me, and I will thank you ever so much?" I stalked off to search in the dusk for what might be crushed and trodden in the dirt. Fortunately I placed my hand on them at once and gave them to her in the drawing-room, where she had resumed conversation with a gentleman on botany,--having broken it off a little while previous in order to bring some curious specimens of the floral kingdom from the conservatory to illus- trate it. I will not detail what followed till the company was bowed away at eleven o'clock, deceived in fancying the complete happiness of the father and daughter they left behind. That evening was an eventful one to me. It revealed how much hollowness might exist in life, and yet be known to only those who suffer life's miseries. I, who had so long believed that Miss Willis's choice of pursuits was the result of a keen relish for rural quiet, now began to question if it were not solely to hide from the world a misery that could not at all times be fully concealed. And Mr. Willis was not only melancholic, but morose,- a misanthrope, indeed. Both were hypocrites. What else could I infer from the expression of Miss Willis that there should ever be misunderstanding and war? Who supposes that this discovery of others' miseries tended in any manner to alleviate my own? -.            -EO   MYSELF.          363 CHAPTER XXXII. How I turned Coward and ran away West to avoid Mr. Willis, and the Discoveries I made there. THE following day I turned coward. A fit of serious- ness and repentance came over me in the morning, and I began to ask myself if I was in a proper state to receive and bear reproaches as I ought from one who had been so kind as Mr. Willis. I knew his disease, and that much ought to be pardoned to it. I knew, too, how shattered I was. So I resolved to avoid the meeting and fly from the scenes and everything that tended to aggravate the evil. A visit to my brothers and sisters in the West had been debated by me for several weeks. My cousin and old schoolmate, Ben Morrison, was out there. Business was slack, and westward I resolved to go. My trunks were ready packed. Sitting down I indited a note to Mr. Willis, in which I disclaimed any intentional error, or giving him a cause for his anger, gravely insinuating that I believed neither of us fit at present to endure a personal interview, and then incontinently " cut stick" for a several months' ramble West and South, answering all mental reproaches against my lack of courage, by quoting Shak- speare,-"The better part of valor is discretion." I spent some weeks with a brother who had settled in a pleasant little village embosomed among the hills of Penn- sylvania. He had found a wife and spent half his days there, and had growing up about him an interesting family. From Pennsylvania I wandered along through Ohio to Cleveland, to which place I had ordered my letters to be directed. I was surprised to find among them a note from Mr. Willis. It was dated the morning I fled from Boston. The writer began by acknowledging himself in the wrong, being fully satisfied from the representations of his daughter that my conduct, under the peculiar cir- cumstances surrounding it, had been, if not justifiable, at   364         MYSELF. least pardonable. He hoped I might receive the note in the frank spirit with which it was dictated, and closed by stating that on his return "from Dartmouth and the hills" he hoped to be able to make such demonstrations of his regard as might fully satisfy me of the estimation in which he held me. So, then, I was not the only coward: Mr. Willis had run away, too! But what did he mean about my conduct "under the peculiar circumstances surrounding it?"Had my crime consisted in a declaration of love to his daughter? It could hardly be, for I recollected he accused me of breaking my faith with "an innocent girl, having found one more attractive." But that had not proved true. I endeavored to do as much, but had failed. The "inno- cent girl" was in advance-she had broken her faith with me. The closing sentences of his letter also interested me. What were the demonstrations of regard that he intended to make, which would so fully satisfy me of the estima- tion in which he held me? Had there been a quarrel between Miss Willis and the Virginian, or was the report of their engagement mere idle rumor? Had Miss Willis made .representations to her father relative to me which had modified his opinion and mollified his anger? Drown- ing men, they say, clutch at straws. I was not drowning, but I caught at straws, nevertheless. Kate Blake had dis- carded me, and I was free now to urge anew my suit for the hand of Miss Willis; and I construed the language of her father into an intention, on his part, of affording me the opportunity. Was the daughter of a similar mind? Were not these expressions of Mr. Willis plainly a signal hung out for me to return to the siege? I recalled the fact that Miss Willis did not absolutely refuse me. She bid me dispose of my previous engagement first. Had she ascertained the result of my journey into the country,- the failure of Kate Blake to keep the appointment with me,-the disposal of that engagement? It was quite pos- sible; for I had revealed enough for her to follow out the inquiry, and, were she so disposed, it had been easy for her to obtain information from the country of my success ,with Kate. If she cared anything for me, she could have /'l        . O   MYSELF.          365 dispatched a messenger to inquire whether a certain young man did meet a certain young woman at a certain place or not. So I sat and mused, with the letter of Mr. Willis in my hand. Then I laid' it down, and broke the seal of an- other. If that of Mr. Willis surprised me, this one upset me completely. My renunciation of the inheritance left me by Mr. Blake fell out! It was accompanied by a note signed "John Trusty," who wrote that he had been di- rected to return the document to me by the person who, next to me, was the most interested in it. He said he was the party I had chased and captured, and that the story which had caused me to make the renunciation was purely an invention of his own, to get away from me, and had been indignantly repudiated by Miss Blake,-I rubbed my eyes and read again,-"Miss Blake,"-who had ordered him to promptly return the document, with her regrets that it had been extracted from me by any such means. She, moreover, had said that, however circumstanced in life, her -sentiments in regard to me had never changed, and she earnestly hoped the time would come when I would be satisfied on that point. Here the letter stopped. Not a word of the reason why she did not meet me as agreed! Not a word explain- ing why she sent her scarf instead! In the name of all that was mysterious, what did it mean? Who was "John Trusty?" Kate was not married,-she was still Miss Blake. Was not "John Trusty" her affianced, though, and had she not sent him to plant her scarf at the ap- pointed trysting-place as a token that she rejected me, keeping away in person, and still hiding from me in order to protect herself from any pursuit in case I was merce- nary enough to take the matter of damages into account? Pshaw! that was too ridiculous for entertainment. And then, if she still entertained an unchanged sentiment rela- tive to me, she would not intrust her affianced to commu- nicate the fact. The most charitable construction I could place on her conduct was that she had been the victim of some terri- ble disease, and that her beauty had fallen a prey to its ravages. She evidently meant to break it to me by de- , . '! 31* ' ,^^2^ '!                 366         MYSELF. grees, and try my fortitude and affection in that manner, While taking this view, my heart involuntarily warmed toward her. I think, had it not been for this letter from "John Trusty," I should have turned back to Boston from Cleve- land, and not gone on with my trip. I should have gone back to renew my suit to Miss Willis. Now, I hardly knew what to do. Finally I determined on delay. I would go on with my western excursion, and allow time to develop events more fully. I resolved that I would not again be the victim of rashness, nor would I rush head- long into new troubles. I had been, if not a burned child, somewhat singed, and entertained a wholesome dread of exposing myself a second time to the terrible experience of the past. I was growing wiser, even in love. Or, if not wise, I was, at least, growing cautious. I was becoming diplomatic. I had two affairs of the heart,-- if I had any heart, which I began to doubt,-and I was not sure which was the one to be pursued. If I thought of Miss Willis, Kate Blake presented herself; and if I turned to Kate, Miss Willis interposed. Then I thought of the donkey between the two stacks of hay, and asked myself if I wasn't also a donkey,-a reflection which, I remember, I considered the most sensible I had made during the time I sat and considered those two letters. The upshot of the matter was, I again turned my face westward. I did not answer the letter of Mr. Willis, be- cause I knew not what to say. I did not reply to "John Trusty," for I didn't know his address. I did, however, write to a noted detective in Boston to hunt up Kate Blake, giving him the amplest details concerning her that I was able. I invoked him to strict secrecy, and to ad- dress me at St. Louis. Then I went on with my journey. Late one night in September, a miserable apology for a stage-coach, called a hack, set me down before a public house at the county-seat of a central county of Illinois. This was before the days of railroads in that State. The Chicago, Alton, and St. Louis Railroad was nearly com- pleted. I recollect I passed gangs of men at work in its construction. Other gangs of men were at work stretch- ing the great Illinois Central Railr: through the ):-:"   lM YEJL,        3607 center of the State. It had been completed part way, and I managed to get quite a distance out of Chicago on it, by dint of riding on construction trains and making friends with the contractors. At last I took the hack. The weather was very fine, and the roads good, so that the trip was rather pleasant than otherwise. The prairies were grandly beautiful at first; but, as we were dragged slowly along, they grew to be mo- notonous, and then never-ending. I could only think of an old-settled country suddenly denuded of its inhabitants and all traces of their habitations. Alongside the timber that bordered the creeks, I found here and there a settle- ment; but it seemed as if the open prairies were looked upon as unfit for human habitation. Rarely did I see a house three miles away from the timber, and most of them were built directly in the edge of it, as if to be protected from the piercing winds that prevailed outside. I will not detain the reader with the change that has been made on the face of that great State since then. The advent of railroads waked it into life, and it has suddenly sprung into a power and importance that has surprised the world. I had for a companion on my last day's ride a person who I judged had once represented his State in Congress. He was a true Westerner, both in character and appear- ance. He was over six feet in height,-long, lank, an- gular, and awkward, yet a man singularly prepossessing, eminently entertaining and companionable. I had rarely met a man in whom I took a friendlier interest; who amused and delighted me more, although he was inclined to quiz my Yankeeism, and with whom the fatigue and monotony of the journey was so entirely overlooked. We had been delayed on the road, and it was only through his interest that the driver was prevailed to go on that night to the end of his route. "I can't promise you much in the way of accommoda- tions at Uncle Bennett's," said my fellow-traveler; " but I reckon his house is the best on the road." We arrived late, and having lunched on the road, went directly to our room. I was soon beneath the sheets, but my companion, who 4 *     ,$  ;t K   368         MYSELF. had come to attend court, found a number of letters awaiting him, which he had to read and answer. Pres- ently I began to grow restless. "Ah," he exclaimed, looking up from his writing, "I see you are not insensible to our Western blessings." "In what respect, sir?" "Fleas. " "Fleas!"My flesh began to crawl, and the drowsi- ness which had stolen over me vanished instantly. My companion laughed a little at my nervousness, and said, pleasantly,-  "I had one of your Boston men out here once who told me that if it were not for fleas and prairie mange some of our old settlers would be too lazy to scratch. He said we had the ague only that we might once in awhile be able to shake ourselves. I'm inclined to believe he didn't think Illinois quite equal to Boston." ' Not quite," I replied, nestling again at another fancied attack from my enemy. '"Boston to a Bostonian," remarked my companion, leisurely scratching away with his pen, "is-Boston. There's no crack in Boston. If there's anything perfect i to a Boston man it's-Boston. But there's a sad crack   i everywhere else. I was amused at this other fellow. He went on to say if it were not for our mud, fleas, bad water, prairie winds, want of timber, ague, difficult communica- tion, and lack of schools, the West would be a paradise." "According to the specimens of, young Suckerdom I have seen to-day," said I, hitching to the other side of the bed, "I should think the want of water a serious draw- back." "Well, I reckon that's about so. I know a chap down here on the creek that lost his vote in consequence of the want of water. He lived on the border of two precincts. He took his meals in one, and slept just across the line in another. When he went to vote, the judges said he must vote where he had his washing done. It was proved that he didn't have his washing done in that precinct, and when he went over to the other they proved that he didn't have it done there. The trouble was he didn't have it done anywhere."   MYSELF.          369 Just then the candle by which my companion was writ- ing careened, and fell spluttering over into a mass of grease. "Pshaw!" he exclaimed. "Uncle Bennett doesn't put quite enough arsenic in his dips to make 'em stand up." "What's that?" said I, starting with a new cause for uneasiness. "Why, we make our dips out here of hog-tallow, and add a little arsenic to make 'em stiff," said he, righting up the fallen luminary. "The devil!" I had knocked the skin from one of my hands in coming through, and on retiring had rubbed the sore with a little of this " tallow." Instead of soothing it, I found it irritated the wound. This explained the cause. "What's the matter now, Boston?" asked my compan- ion, looking up, as I leaped from the bed and made my way to the washstand. "Oh, nothing. Only Boston washes its hands of West- ern dips. Pray, now," said I, going back to my couch, "please say no more to-night. Boston's got enough for once." My companion laughed again. "Do you think so? Well, if the fleas bite you again, comfort yourself that they are part of the real of Uncle Bennett's establishment. There are fleas here that I had an introduction to when I first came to the State." I turned my face to the wall, and resolutely kept silent. Presently my companion put away his writing and pre- pared go follow me. I will not say how well I slept that night. A little while before daybreak I fell into an un- quiet slumber. Shortly after I was roused by a cry from below,- "Mose! Ho, Mose!" "What d'ye want?" replied a sleepy voice in the room adjoining ours. "Get up and build the fire." A sleepy groan, with a heavy turn in the bed, was the only response. I sank to slumber again, to be again aroused. "Mose! Ho, Mose! Get up!"   370         MYSELF.  "Let the gals get up!"And Mose turned over and snored once more. Ten minutes passed; I was getting drowsy again, when the whole house was awakened by the thundering voice. "Mose! You infernal, lazy, or'nary, good-for-nothing cuss!" "What do you want?" bawled Mose. This time he was evidently irritated. Get up and build the fire i" "I'll be dogged if I will," muttered Mose, in too low a voice to reach the ears of Uncle Bennett. "We'll see about that!" exclaimed my companion, springing out of bed, and making his way to the room of the slothful sleeper. -A moment after there was a heavy tumble on the floor. Mose had been summarily turned out. There was angry expostulation on his part, to which was replied,- "If you don't get down-stairs powerful fast I'll help you. How do you s'pose we can sleep with the old man bawling like that.?" Thereupon Mose proceeded to dress, grumbingly, and my companion returned to his couch. When I arose in the morning I thought it long past breakfast-time; but it appeared that, after rising, instead of building the fires and calling the " gals," Mose had gone to sleep in a chair, and consequently breakfast was an hour or so late. I found my traveling companion, however, taking matters quite cheerfully. He was sur- rounded by a group of boarders and parties in attendance on court, and was regaling them with a fund of humor and anecdote that made him, as I learned, an immense favorite all through that section. "Good-morning, Boston!" was his pleasant greeting, as he recognized me. Just then one of the party, glancing at me, straightened himself out of his seat, in which he was bent nearly double, having his heels fortified on the top of the stove, in which the fire had been suffered to die out, and, expectorating a stream of tobacco juice across the room, exclaimed,- "Dog my buttons, if here isn't Whitehead!" Ben Morrison grasped my hand and wrung it nearly off.   "The last person on earth I expected to see! Did you rain down?" "No," replied my traveling companion of the previous day; "he came down with me. So Boston's an acquaint- ance of yours, Judge?" t I reckon he is," replied Ben, with enthusiasm. "Why, old hoss, how are you, anyhow?"And he wrung my hand again; and then he surveyed me from top to toe with a look of admiration. "He had a bad night of it," said the other. " 'Twixt Uncle Bennett's fleas and Mose, I reckon he didn't get any too much sleep." This started up "Uncle Bennett," a good-natured fel- low of heavy mould, who declared that he hadn't a flea within a mile of his house; and when the company roared at the assertion, said he would give a bit apiece for all that anybody might catch in it. "A pretty safe operation, Uncle Bennett," remarked my tormentor. "It is one thing to harbor fleas and another thing to catch 'em!" "Oh, shut up!" exclaimed Boniface. "You are pow- erful fond of your nonsense. You know there ain't a flea in the house; so what's the use?" How far the assertion might have been disputed, had not Mose just then announced breakfast, I do not know. Ben got me off by himself at the table, that he might ply me with questions about New England. "First," said he, " where did you leave Kate and the babies?" Like all the others who had supposed that I eloped with Kate Blake, he was slow to credit the truth. "Where could she have gone?" said he, when I told him I had not eloped with her. "You have all the information that I possess," I replied. "But you must have some trace of her?" I related the incident connected with my visit to the appointed trysting-place. "I heard about Blake's leaving you that property," said Ben. "He must have believed you eloped together. So Kate didn't turn up accori4g to agreement, and you re- signed the property?" '   $3?2        MYSELF. "Yes." "You are a cursed fool! You and I are old enough now, I reckon, to see that women are playthings. But ten thousand dollars are worth holding on to." I related the sequel,-the return of my renunciation, which Ben declared "a stumper," and "allowed"Kate Blake was beyond his fathoming. After breakfast, Ben took me to his office. "And so you are in the law, too!" ejaculated he, after he had lighted his cigar, and posted himself in his office- chair. {'Who would have prophesied that you and I should both take our cue from that prosecution for raising Cain with the Jeffersonian Debating Club? But so it was, -at least with me. Filled with admiration at the adroit management of Jotham Hopkins, I resolved to become a lawyer. But I reckon I'm not enough of a lawyer to hurt. I haven't had the chance like you have. You're a heap ahead of me, I reckon." "I am not quite judge yet," said I. "Oh, that's a brevet title. "And Ben laughed. "We are all judges or colonels out yere. I got my title last fall. I ran for judge at the election and was beaten. So my opponents call me Judge in derision. But dog my buttons, Whitey, haven't you changed though!" I found Ben Morrison thoroughly Westernized. When he first emigrated he was in the habit of making use of the Western dialect in the way of ridicule, and it insensibly grew upon him until it became a habit he could not shake off. s Dog my buttons!" was his favorite expression. Ben was fitted by nature for Western life. Bold to recklessness in youth, he was in his element among the settlers of this new country, and it was not long before they became imbued with a healthy respect for his prowess. Ben could fight, and every one- respected a fighting man. He was also a whole-souled, off-hand character, and that trait also pleased them. He fell readily into their ways and manners and customs, and had I not known differ- ently, I should have pronounced him a born Sucker. "And you are right from Boston, too?" said he. "Been in Boston all the time--eh? Got the Boston look,-Boston cut to your clothes. Full of Boston ideas, too, I reckon?"   MYSELF.          373 "Not exactly," said I. "I am not aware that I have the ideas of any particular section." "I'm glad to hear it," he replied. 'Boston fellows put on so much style when they come out yere that you'd think there wasn't another place in the whole country." "Perhaps Boston is not different from other places in that respect," I returned. "Almost every one looks with pride upon his native home." "That's so! Dog my buttons if there's any place like America for me!" "America?" "Yes. I call Down East America. This is Out West." "One would think, to look at you, Ben," I laughed, "that you never saw Down East. " "Oh, well, I'm not one of your strait-laced Down- Easters. I'm not Boston. I don't make everybody un- comfortable by comparing Down East with heaven. They say you don't sing - Sweet Home' down there; but sing, ' Boston, Sweet Boston.' " I felt a little nettled at this continued rallying, and told Ben I thought the people in his section entertained a par- ticular spite against the "Hub." "Oh, we have a Boston colony out yere about twenty miles, and the airs some of the fellows put on is laughable to behold. And that reminds me," said he, "that I musn't rasp you too hard, or I may fail to secure your interest in a little scheme you can assist me in." I related " the little scheme" of Jotham Hopkins, and told Ben I felt rather shy of helping my new professional brethren. "It's nothing of that kind," laughed Ben. "I want you to lend me your good offices, and not your money. Speaking of this Boston colony, the law business con- nected with it is worth right smart. I want you to help me get hold of it." I asked him in what way I could be of assistance. "Why, you see, it was started by an old chap of your city and a daughter of his, as a charitable concern. They entered and bought up a whole township of land, and then colonized it with poor mechanics and laborers, and others who found it difficult to get a living in Boston." 32   374         MYSELF. "Very well," said I. "If I can assist you in any way, I shall be most happy in doing it. I have an old debt to repay, Ben. I owe you for a certain night's work, although it was a sadly dull night for me." "I reckon that was an event in your life," he replied. "I pitied you a heap, but I admired your pluck. You didn't know then that it was to be the making of you, did you? There's a divinity which shapes our ends rough, hew them as we may." I asked Ben for the name of the Boston party. "I'll be dogged if I can tell now," he rejoined. "It's named after the old fellow, too; but out yere we call it 'Little Boston,' and hardly know it by the other name." Ben went to rummaging his desk. "Why, dog my buttons! That's funny. Let's see. The daughter's name is Mary-Mary-oh, here it is- Willis. That's it!" . "Willis?"I exclaimed, in astonishment. "That's the name. He's a lawyer there. Perhaps you know him. Why, what's the matter? You look as if you were surprised." "I am," I replied. "I am a partner of one Mr. Willis, and he has a daughter Mary. It can't be him." "We can easily ascertain," said Ben. "There are plenty of deeds of his on record over to the Recorder's office. Let's go over and take a look at them." We went to the Recorder's office, and assuredly there was the name of Philip Willis copied into the records in scores of places. This was a new thing to me. In all my dealings with Mr. Willis, I never heard of this colony. Ben told me that it was really more a creation of the daughter than of the father. The settlers had been furnished with a com- plete outfit at the start,-put upon eighty acres of land, with a comfortable house, stock, and farming utensils, and allowed to work their way into possession. A few had turned out worthless, and had abandoned the colony in disgust, or been turned out. To these parties the colony owed its nickname. They were constantly bringing up the superiority of everything in Boston, until they made Boston and Boston people a byword and laughing-stock.   MYSELF.          375 "So much," said Ben, " for a few scabby sheep." The great bulk of the inhabitants of the settlement were most worthy and excellent citizens. Quite a village had grown up in the precinct, and nearly half the township had been put under cultivation. And the enterprise was beginning to be self-supporting. Im- bued with New England thrift, and with- a genius for the manufacture of Yankee notions, the colonists had pros- pered beyond anticipation. In the summer they tilled the soil, but in the winter they entered their workshops, and supplied the whole section with wagons, and farming and other utensils that were difficult to procure elsewhere. I had a strong desire to visit the place; and a day or two after Ben procured a couple of saddle-horses, and we rode out to it. It was located near a creek, in the edge of some timber, usual with nearly all these Western vil- lages. It was decidedly New England in its characteris- tics. Ben said it was "Boston all over." There was a neat white church, with its spire pointing heavenward; a large high-school building, erected by Miss Willis; a town- hall, containing a public library of several thousand vol- umes, the gift of her father. Then there were stores and workshops, and all the concomitants of a thrifty settle- ment. "The Suckers out here," said Ben, as we rode on to- wards the place, "say there's nothing like a Yankee. He makes even his charities pay him." "Coming near a practical illustration of the text of Scripture, 'He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord,' " said I. "Yes, but in lending to the Lord," replied Ben, "the Yankee takes good care of the conditions and security. A Western man would give you a section of land outright, and steal it back again on a tax title." We rode up to the little public house, had our horses put away, and ordered dinner. After dinner, we walked over to the agent's office. There were evidently prepara- tions going on for some important event. The office was nearly filled with pupils of the high-school, busy discuss- ing the programme of an intended celebration. "I wish we were only in Boston now," exclaimed one   376         AMYSE LF. of the young misses,' "and then we might get evergreens for the wreaths, These leaves so quickly wilt." "There it goes,--Boston again!" said Ben to me.. Just then she caught sight of us, crowding our way in. She gave me an earnest stare. - When inside, Ben intro- duced me to the agent, Robert Kirkham. Mr. Kirkham and I looked at each other with more than ordinary curi- osity. I had seen him before. It was evident, from his appearance, that he had seen me. Where I had seen him I couldn't tell. He evidently labored under the same dif- ficulty with regard to me. "Right from Boston," said Ben, observing our em- barrassment. "I thought so," remarked the agent, IsI must have seen you there, though I can't recall the place just now." I replied that I was laboring under the same impres- sion. "He's the partner of Mr. Willis," added Ben. COh, -ah! I presume, then, I have seen him at Mr. Willis's office, though I haven't been in Boston for four or five years. And you entered his office since then, I believe?" The agent then proceeded to inquire in regard to Mr. and Miss Willis, saying they were expected West almost daily, and a great school celebration was in contempla- tion over the event. This was more news to me, though he evidently thought, until I undeceived him, that I was of the party, but a little in advance. "Miss Willis has never visited the place but twice," said the agent; "and the first time I came out with her. It is- so difficult to get here; the ride is long, and the roads so uncertain. Now that we are to have railroads, that difficulty will, I hope, in a measure, be obviated." He insisted that I should remain and go over the settle- ment, and desired to know why I couldn't stay until Mr. and Miss Willis came. I readily assented to his first proposition, but demurred as to the second. If Mr. and Miss Willis had never mentioned the existence of this place to me, and had not told me of their intended visit, I did not feel- like surprising them with my discovery in the manner proposed by Kirkham. I thought it better to wait   MYSELF.          3" for an invitation from the principals, and not accept one from the agent. Kirkham ordered out his fine matched team, and drove us from point to point, bringing up at length at the high- school. The school was under the care of a female principal. She was introduced to me as Mrs. Carter. "Mr. Head is a partner of Mr. Willis," said the agent. I do not know what reply she made. I only know I looked first at her and then at the agent, and then across the school-room to the young miss who gave me such an earnest stare at the agent's office. She was looking at me. "You are originally from Boston?" said I to the prin- cipal. Mrs. Carter replied in the affirmative. "Is not that your daughter?"And I motioned across to the girl. "Yes," said she, with the tender smile of a mother. I took Mr. Robert Kirkham by the arm, leaving Ben Morrison to interest himself as he might, and walked with him to a vacant corner of the room. "-You observed, as we were introduced, I believe," said I, "that you thought you had seen me before," "Certainly, I have that impression." "You do not recollect where nor under what circum- stances?" "I can't exactly recall the circumstances, that's a fact," said he. "Allow me to refresh your memory. One evening, some four years, ago, you met a young man at a house at the South End, when you and a lady-Miss Willis I now take it to have been--went to the relief of Mrs. Carter, your principal here, who was then lying very ill." Robert Kirkham gazed at me with great interest. "I guess that's so," he replied. "I recollect the occa- sion very well. I recollect of meeting a young man there; but really I didn't recognize you." "Excuse me," said I; " and if you will be kind enough to call off and amuse my friend Morrison a few moments, you will oblige me." 32*   378  .MYSELF. He smiled and complied. When I returned to Mrs. Carter her daughter was by her side. The latter had been saying something to her mother, who remarked, with no little emotion, "My daughter recognizes you, sir, as the gentleman who so kindly relieved her at the United States Hotel, in Boston, one terrible night. You are not aware what an interest she takes in you, and how much we both have to thank you for." I turned to Julia. She was blushing and smiling, and tears were sparkling in her eyes. I took her proffered hands and shook them warmly. "I was sure it was you," she said. Mrs. Carter had stepped to the agent, and came back and announced the school dismissed for the day. Robert Kirkham took Ben Morrison off to show him some deeds and other legal instruments, about which he- pretended he wanted some advice, and I went home with Mrs. Carter and Julia. I found them most pleasantly situated. "There is just one point on which I desire information," said I, after we were seated in the pleasant little parlor. "You disappeared from the place where I visited you the following day. Where did you go?" "To a hospital," said Mrs. Carter. "And Miss Willis knew it?" "She visited me daily." "And never lost sight of you?" "Never!  To her I am indebted for my life and all my subsequent comfort. She took care of me until I re- covered, and then came West with me, and installed me in my present location, where I have been ever since." Julia was sitting by my side on the sofa. "And you, my little chick," said I, with a caress, " you were never lost, were you?" "I went with mother." I smiled all to myself. A mystery of years had been revealed.  Then I told my new-made friends that they were not all who were the recipients of Miss Willis's benevolence that night. The poor boy who had so gen- erously disposed of viands not his own to relieve suffering   MYSELF.          379 humanity, had, in consequence, been taken in hand and led up the ladder to a comfortable position in life. She laughed heartily at the pleasant fiction of Mr. Willis to draw my attention away from the true reason he had for taking me under his protection. CHAPTER XXXIII. Relates to the Tragic Death of Mr. Willis, and how I returned in haste to Boston. I LEFT Mrs. Carter and Julia after an hour or so to go in search of Ben Morrison to take him back with me to tea. I little knew the revulsion of feeling I was about to undergo,-how suddenly the happiness I was the sharer of was to be dashed away. Half-way to the office of the agent I met Robert Kirkham. He was very pale, and held an open letter in his hand. He was quite incapable of speech, but held out the missive. I divined that some- thing terrible had happened. I took it from him and read. Great God! Mr. Willis was dead! In returning from the excursion to Dartmouth and the White Mountains, he had fallen between the cars and been fatally crushed. The letter had been some weeks on its passage. In a few moments the bell of the church began to toll, and the villagers gathered from all quarters as the news spread among them. I never saw grief more overwhelm- ing. In an incredibly short space of time the whole place was wrapped in mourning. A meeting was announced for the evening at the town-hall, to give expression to the general sorrow that pervaded the little settlement. I was urged by Kirkham to stay and address the assemblage, but my fortitude was- not equal to the occasion. I was more a mourner than a comforter. Just at nightfall I wrung the hands of Robert Kirkham, and took an affecting leave of Mrs. Carter and Julia, and,   380         1MYSELF. mounting my horse, followed Ben Morrison out into the prairie. Our way was lighted back to the county-seat by prairie-fires blazing luridly in nearly every direction, but my thoughts were far away with the solitary mourner over a loved parent,---a parent I felt I could almost consider my own. The next morning Ben Morrison purchased for me a saddle-horse; and packing my clothing into a pair of sad- dle-bags, I started for the nearest point on the railroad which was in process of construction out of Chicago. I sold my horse when I reached it, and mounted a locomo- tive, and was soon in-that city. From there I made a con- tinuous run homeward, and in forty-eight hours thereafter was threading my way to the office in Court Square. The death of Mr. Willis, so sudden and tragical, created a deep sensation in Boston, where he was widely known and respected. The obsequies and other demonstrations of sorrow were very imposing, but they were all past when I arrived, and the city was as full of bustle and hurry and noise as -if no event like the loss of a citizen had ever occurred. Mr. Hall welcomed me back to the office with the air of one who had made up his mind that I was but of little service to it. He alluded to the death of Mr. Willis in a manner more business-like'than otherwise; informed me that I had been appointed one of the executors of his last will and testament; and after volunteering further information that the testator had distributed about one hundred thousand dollars in legacies and left the balance of his property to his daughter, packed a few books into his green bag and made his way across the square to court. Miss Willis was residing in the city. I dreaded calling upon her, for in her affliction I feared the meeting must be one of double embarrassment and pain, - I found her much more collected than I expected. She was clad in deep mourning, but replied quite calmly to my awkward words of condolence, She warmly eulogized the virtues of the deceased, and at my request narrated the particulars of the fatal accident that had deprived her of a parent and guar- dian and myself of a kind benefactor. The violence of her grief had subsided.   MYSELF.          38I She asked me of my excursion, and noticing my im- proved complexion, hoped that I had found that relief of which I had gone in search. I replied vaguely, for the immediate cause of that excursion occurred to me. She observed my embarrassment, and mournfully re- marked,- "How much would I give had that unfortunate scene never occurred I But the misunderstanding was happily removed from his mind when I obtained an opportunity to explain to him. You must have observed it by his note the following morning." "I did," I replied. "And mny own note--I hope--" "Gave him great pleasure. He commended your mod- eration, and that prudence which dictated a postponement of an interview till passion had time to cool and reason to resume her sway." "It was a most unfortunate affair," I returned, in tones of heart-felt regret. "Were that blotted out, the record would be one of the friendliest of intercourse, and his but a series of constantly kind and generous acts toward me. It is a consolation to know that the misunderstand- ing was temporary; yet I regret that he did not live till an interview had wiped out all traces of it, as I had reason to expect from the tone of his note." Miss Willis cast a furtive glance toward me as I spoke, that confirmed me in the construction I first placed on his meaning when he alluded to making amends to my full satisfaction, but it was no time then to refer to such a matter. Even had it been, I should have hesitated, for of late every time the image of Miss Willis arose to my mind another rose beside it. Sleeping or waking neither visited me alone. The specters of Kate Blake and Miss Willis came in my dreams hand-in-hand, like twin sisters, the one clad in deep mourning, the other obscured by a veil which I felt impelled, and yet was unable, to raise. There seemed to be a mutual feeling that the subject must become embarrassing if longer pursued, and we changed it; and after a few words more I rose to take my leave. She followed me across the apartment, and as I was   382         MYSELF. stepping into the hall, said abruptly, like one hurried to an unpleasant business,- ' You have heard, I suppose, that my father named you as one of the executors of his will?" "Mr. Hall informed me." And I was going on to add my sense of gratitude for the confidence reposed in me by Mr. Willis, when she interrupted me by saying,- "And if it will not be asking too much, I should like to have you act as my confidential adviser and attorney." I gave an unfeigned start of surprise. She blushed deeply. "I know it may appear strange to you," she said; "but there is none other in whom I have equal confidence, so well acquainted with our affairs, and"-with a faint smile --- my own whims and peculiarities." "But there are older and wiser heads than mine," I de- murred; "those that are better calculated to advise one in your situation." "It is just the remark nine out of every ten would be likely to make," she returned. "But an old man's advice partakes too much of command; and the commands of old men are absolute. You know I am not one to be tyrannized over. I shall quarrel with an old man. If I am only sure my property is placed where it will not be sacrificed, I will take care of the income without the ad- vice of any one. I know your integrity, and besides," -and she again became embarrassed,-"I feel that I ought to wipe out even the temporary suspicion under which you were held." "But not this," said I, for I began to realize the impro- priety of my assuming the position. "There is Mr. East- burn, who has long been the agent of your father." "But not adviser nor attorney. My -father was his own adviser and attorney. But that shall be no obstacle, Mr. Head, for I certainly wish Mr. Easthurn to by retained. Yet I feel that there should be somebody above him. You will pardon this little stroke of diplomacy,"she said, with a faint smile. ' When you get against me, I can play him against you and so checkmate you. That may not be very flattering, but as I am treating of a confidential matter, I may as well trust your confidence. It is not on              -4   MYSELF.          383 you that I meditate placing a check, but there have been circumstances in the conduct of Mr. Easthurn since my father's death that lead ine to feel, at least, the need of an adviser." "I hope nothing suspicious?" said I, alarmed. "For did I believe that I could be of the least genuine service to you, I would think little of the gossip that would ensue." "Oh! oh! gossip!" she interrupted. Gossipers can- not deter me, Mr. Head. I cannot devote my life to the humoring of such people." "Still, Miss Willis," said I, seriously, stepping back into the drawing-room and closing the door, "I see great objection to my assuming the position. You acknowl- edge that nine out of ten will view it in the light I do. I would much prefer the post of friend, and in that capacity I shall ever esteem it a favor to give you the best of what poor advice I may be able to afford." Miss Willis looked disappointed. "Friend I shall ever hold you," said she. "But do not think that I am going to constantly intrude on a man who must necessarily be absorbed in other business. No, no!" she uttered, as I was about to dissipate that idea. "You have known me for a willful girl, though I hope a filial one. I must have my way now. It must be attorney, one on whom I can feel I have a right to call at any and all times, or one on whom I will not call at all." I saw that she was decided, and I begged time to further consider the matter. "Certainly. Any length of time you wish," she replied, with an air remarkably like business; "but as for the delicacy, excuse me if I don't perceive it." Then she softened her tone, as I reopened the door. "I am certain that it had been my father's wish that this arrangement should be made, and I value his opinion too highly to disregard it." I was unable to coincide with Miss Willis concerning her father's wish, but I took my leave and walked away not a little perplexed. "What will the world say?"I thought. "Nothing less than 'Mr. Attorney Head will take good care to make his   384         MYSELF. authority absolute and life-long. The prize is too tempt- ing to lose, with so much power to gain it.'" The very idea of such taunts stung me to the quick. If I assume the trust I will be equal to it," I thought. And then came a sigh. Was I prepared to decline the offer, and thereby perhaps cut aloof from hopes that had clustered about my heart in spite of the vigorous opposi- tion from conscience, and the smouldering embers of my love for Kate Blake? Kate Blake! Close beside the image of Miss Willis rose that veiled form again. "If," thought I, "I could but lift the veil that en- shrouds her and know all, then I might decide."  Then I was reminded of the detective officer, and bent my footsteps to his office. "Halloo!" exclaimed that individual, as r entered. "Did you get my letter?" What letter?" "Why, I wrote to St. Louis, as you directed." "I didn't go there," said I. "Oh, you didn't! Good reason, then, why Jack didn't eat his supper. Well, I guess I have got track of her." A thrill of pleasure ran through me. "Where is she?" "Lowell." I glanced at my watch. "It is too late for the half-past two train," remarked the officer; " but you can go up at five. There's no need of my going. You just take the case to Shed." "Shed?" "City Marshal,-everybody knows him. By the way, here's his card. Say to him that you came from me. Tell him your business and he'll find her." I thanked the officer, walked out and went to my dinner. Certainly, for the first day of my return, events were crowding thick upon me. After dinner I found time to visit Anderson, receiving his congratulations ovet my return. Then, after speaking of the death of our patron, I took the cars for Lowell. S   MYSELF.          385 CHAPTER XXXIV. How I obtained Tidings of Kate Blake, and how I went to find her. I HAD no difficulty in the evening in finding the office of the party to whom I was directed. He gave me a sinister smile, when I told my business, and asked,- "You will have her come to the office, I suppose? I guess I know where she can be found, and we can invent some excuse to get her down here." I felt appalled. "You do not mean to say---"I gasped. "I don't mean nothin' else,'" was the reply. I struggled hard to master my emotion. "It's all over then," I muttered, half audibly; "and yet she cannot be fully abandoned." "If she ain't, few are," remarked the officer, who caught the last sentence. "I guess you don't know much about her." "Only as the innocent playmate of my youth, sir." And my voice trembled in spite of me. The officer was silent for several moments. "There can be no mistake about her character?"I asked, contrasting her conduct with this story, and beginning to doubt. "You can ask any one on the street," said he, in a tone meant to put an end to any further queries like that. "They all know her." Then as I sat silent, brooding over the blow, he re- marked,. "Perhaps you don't care so much about seeing her now? If you don't wish to meet her, I guess I can put you in a way to observe her and assure yourself." "What do you mean? That I can observe her unknown to herself?" "I think so; that is, if she is where I think she is." 33   386         MYSELF. I signified my desire of doing so, and we stepped into the officer's chaise, which was at the door, and I was driven to a public dance-hall, not far distant. I will not attempt to describe the state of my feelings. We mounted the stairs leading to the hall in silence. At the head of them the officer suggested that if I wished to avoid observation I had better enter without him. "You would recognize her, wouldn't you?" The idea of it chilled me like an icicle. Recognize Kate Blake as a prostitute! I doubted it. !"Never mind; if you don't recognize her, it is pretty likely she won't you," said he. "The doorkeeper will know if she is here, and I'll come in after awhile and point her out." We found the box-office surrounded by a crowd of young men whose prominent points seemed to be coarse jests and oaths. They made room, with significant looks, at the approach of my companion. Young females were passing in at a side door, some of them stopping to bandy jests with the crowd outside, in language no more refined than that which was addressed to them. "It's all right,-she's here," said the officer, after hav- ing conferred with the box-keeper. "You go in. Per- haps she's not out of the drawing-room,--it's all right,"- nodding to the doorkeeper ; and, the door opening, I was \ ushered into a large hall, the floor of which was occupied by an assemblage of men and women, mostly young, per- t ' forming the steps of a quadrille. A crowd of the first- named sex stood about the door, inside as well as outside, and among them I found an excellent place for conceal- ment. J waited till the quadrille was over, hoping to have a better view of the females when seated; but no sooner did the music cease than a rush was made by the whole house for position in the next,-couples running against couples, jostling, thumping, and even knocking each other down. Coarse and angry words ensued; and above the din I heard oaths issuing from female lips. Sick at heart, and impatient to behold her I was in search of, and know from my own eyes her degradation, I left the shelter of the rapidly-changing group at the door, and took a seat at the lower end of the hall. In vain my -eyes searched the   MYSELF.         387 various sets,--all were strangers. I thought she might be yet in the drawing-room, and so changed my posi- tion as to cover the entrance with my eye. She did not come in. I rose and strolled about the hall, assuming as careless an appearance as possible, but keeping my shawl in close proximity to my face. My eye searched the countenance of every female present. Still I recog- nized none. "There must be some mistake," thought I. "She is not here." A moment or two after, a hand touched my shoulder. "Have you seen her?" asked the marshal, who had be- come tired of waiting for me outside. "She is not here," said I. "Not here? Certainly she is. Step this way, and I'll point her out. Don't look just when I tell you, for atten- tion will be attracted to her. They think you're an officer, and after somebody." We passed across the hall. "She's in the fourth set," said he. "The girl in the pink dress,-blue sash, plain hair." It required much fortitude to cast my eyes in the direc- tion indicated, and it was well he told me not to look im- mediately. After a time I scanned the parties composing the set he directed me to. "The fourth set, did you say?"I asked. "The fourth set." "I see the girl with a pink dress and blue sash,-danc- ing with a man with a heavy mustache." "That's her." My heart throbbed. "Are you sure?" "Certainly." "Let us move a little nearer." "Take care, they are looking at us," said the marshal. "You go round yonder. I'll stay here." I moved along, terribly nervous, my breath coming and going with a force that almost suffocated me. I got nearer the pink dress, and surveyed her fully. Then I went back to the marshal. "Do you say you are sure that is the girl?"   388         MYSELF. "That's Kate Blake," he replied. "Ask any of those fellows." I stepped aside and accosted one: "Who is yonder girl, --in the fourth set, -pink dress and blue sash?" "Dancing with the mustache?" "Yes." "Kate Blake." I returned to the marshal again. "Are you satisfied?" he asked. I shook my head, "There is a resemblance, but I can- not recognize her. But then it was eight years ago. I should like to observe her more fully." "Do you dance? I'll get you into the set with her." That appeared easier promised than performed. It seemed quite impossible to gain any particular set without being run over or knocked down. The marshal spoke to a young man, who went off for a partner: and then the officer hunted up one for me. All the while my eyes fur- tively followed the girl they called Kate Blake. She did look somewhat like the ideal I had drawn of Kate. She was about the age, and height, and form. "Come," said the officer, returning and drawing my arm within his. He took me across the hall to a young female. "Miss Jennie, allow me to introduce Mr.-Mr.--what's your name?-I beg pardon, Mr. Wilkins. He would be pleased to dance with you." The girl arose and took my arm. 1 "You'll have to look sharp," she said, "or we'll be crowded off the floor." "I'll take care of that," replied the officer, who took my shawl and hat. "Will you? You're a duck!" returned my partner. Then, with a remark about being saved "a rumpling," the girl subsided, and. we waited for the forming of the sets.  The quadrille was soon over, and there was another rush for the floor, attended with cursing and swearing, and a fight. I looked about disappointed. "The set is full," I remarked, as my eye fell on the position of the pink dress.   MYSELF.         389 "And so are all of them," exclaimed my partner. "I thought he was going to save us a place." Just then an individual in the coveted set left his place and approached us. I saw he was the one the marshal had conferred with. "I had to knock a fellow down to get it," he remarked, coming up to the officer. And then, turning to me, he said, "Come this way, sir." He led us to the set, and gave us his place. Now I was opposite to the pink dress. At first I averted my face, but at length scrutinized her, with my own coun- tenance fully exposed. The music began. We passed through the changes; the ladies crossed over; I chassted with her; glanced at the rings on the fingers I held within my own; gazed into her very eyes, and crossed back to my place, breathing free. It might be Kate Blake, but not the Kate I was in search of. I escaped from the set with a sense of relief, and sought the marshal, to communicate my opinion. "You are sure?" "Quite," I replied, with a confident smile,-I felt like smiling then. "We will go now." "Still-eight years," muttered the officer. "Wait!" He spoke to another individual, and then followed me out. At the door of his office, I proposed settling with him for his trouble. "Come up," said he. "She'll be down here directly. We'll find where she came from. There's nothing like absolute certainty. It's the easiest thing in the world to mistake countenances, especially when you haven't seen them for so long a time, as in this case." In ten minutes the girl entered the office, accompanied by the person to whom the marshal spoke on our leaving the hall. She was invited to the back office, and demanded to know what we wanted of her. "Do you know this man?" asked the officer, shutting out her companion. She gave me a long stare. "I saw him dancing, just now, up to the hall," she re- plied. "Did you ever see him before?" he asked. 33*   390  -       MYSELF. a' No. Where's he been stealin'?" The marshal laughed, while I "grinned horribly a ghastly smile." ' Kate," said the officer, "C where were you born?" "What business is that to you?" she replied, with a look of defiance. "I may be bad; but I ain't a thief." I felt satisfied beyond a doubt; but, to put an end to all suspense, I asked her,- "Were you ever in New Hampshire-? Did you ever know a family there by the name of Head?" She looked at me a moment, and seeing, perhaps, that I did not mean to entrap her, she answered,- "No. I was born in Maine. Why?" "That is enough," said I. And we passed into the outer office. "I You're a bully boy, ain't you, to get me down here on a fool's errand?" remarked the girl to the officer, as she went by him to go out. "It's all right, Kate," said the officer. "All right! Did you think I had taken something from that homely fellow?" she exclaimed, pointing to me. The marshal laughed a short, dry laugh. "Anything like your Kate?" he said, turning to me. "Great God, man!"I returned. "If that were the in- nocent girl I knew in childhood, I would strangle her right here!"And my fingers were stretched out nervously, as if I would clutch at somebody's throat. The girl stopped short, and glared at me in fury. "Would you? It was just such a smooth-tongued damned hypocrite as you that made me what I am. I was innocent once,-as innocent as your girl,-and had a mother, and sisters, and a brother, and a lover, too." And she covered her face with her hands, and broke out into wild, convulsive sobbing as she went down the stairs into the street. Alas for the villainy and treachery of man! Here was a soul wrecked,-a lost one, whose mother was mourning her as worse than dead! The next morning I returned to Boston. When I called on the detective, and told him the result of my adventure, he was nonplused.   MYSELF.          39I "It is impossible to trace her from the seminary," said he. "All the teachers that were there when she was there are gone. I found where she boarded. They remembered her well, for she was a great favorite. They say that she came one day and said her father had sent for her. She paid all her bills, took her clothes, and went away." "Could you not trace her from there?"I asked. "How could I? It was eight years ago. Nobody went with her. No inquiries were ever made concerning her until I made them. However, it is possible I may yet get some clue to her." "Did she have room-mate or school-friend among the girls, with whom she corresponded in after-life?" "None that I can trace. All her acquaintance with the school and its inmates closed with her departure." I left him, with instructions to spare no pains to hunt her up. I gave him a minute description of "John Trusty," for he said he thought the best way to get at her was through him. "He may have baffled you," said he, with a smile; "but he can't cheat us." CHAPTER XXXV. How I spent the following Winter, and how Ned Whiting became a Vic- tim to New England's Fell-Destroyer, Consumption. WHEN I sought Ned Whiting the day previous, at his office, the boy told me he was sick with a cold at home. My other engagements prevented, at that time, my visiting him. Next morning I called. He was more severely affected than I had suspected. His family, one branch of which was consumptive, feared that he was going into a decline, and certainly his symptoms indicated it. He had a bad cough, and his cheeks betrayed a color that was un- natural to them. A few days of pleasant weather, how- ever, dissipated Ned's fears, and he returned to his office,   392  --        YSELF. believing the attack to be the result of a temporary cold, now happily alleviated. It was not without pain that I came to a determination in regard to the offer of Miss Willis. I declined it. I did not like to place her in a position to be annoyed by gos- sip. I thought that if I should again attempt to seek a more tender place in her regards, it would not be well to do too much business with her. Many little foibles would be revealed on each side; and besides, who can say what prejudices ensue where a woman is advised against her will? Every suitor of Miss Willis -and there were plenty of them-would look upon me as an especial rival, to be got rid of at any cost, and they would all be busy in sowing Jealousies between us. Miss Willis seemed hurt at my decision. I thought it was pique. It appeared as if she expected, because her father had befriended me, that I was to be obedient to her in all her requests. Thus thinking and feeling, I said nothing tending to smooth over the rough edges of my refusal. She ha(d told me that I must be paid attorney, or no adviser. Therefore I did not even make a tender of my services in a private capacity; and I left the mansion at the close of our second interview with an irritated spirit, inwardly vowing that I would not visit it again till she was in a different mood. The expression of Miss Willis concerning Mr. Easthurn was a source of uneasiness, notwithstanding my feeling of vexation. As one of the executors, I took good care to scrutinize his acts; and it resulted in his growing shy of me. Thereupon my fears became enlarged. Miss Willis had selected her adviser,-a discreet, upright, elderly gen- tleman named Lewis, a thorough business man; and at one time I half resolved to confer with him. But then I had nothing tangible against Mr. Easthurn, So I waited and watched. I declined Miss Willis's offer, that I might go back to the office with Mr. Hall,-and to stick to the office. But that gentleman very coolly suggested that, as the death of -the senior partner of the firm rendered dissolution of co- partnership necessary, we had better part altogether. He claimed that my desertion the past season had been of   SO           MYSELF.          393 great damage to the office. I was aware of it and had deter- mined to atone for it; but my interview with Miss Willis left me in a state of irritation,-and yet without any good reason,-and being proud-spirited, I made no effort at ex- planation or reconciliation, and we parted. "I will go on alone," said I to myself, " and I will show Mr. Hall that I can do as well without him as he can without me." I surrendered the office to Mr. Hall, after taking out the large law library which Mr. Willis had bequeathed me, and engaged rooms on the opposite side of the passage. While they were being fitted up I made a flying visit to my mother, partially to see her, and partially to get, if possible, some information in regard to Kate Blake. I found my mother well, the Parkhursts as pleasant and agreeable as ever, but no word of Kate. When I returned to the city I sat down in my new rooms, severed from all business connections, absolutely alone in the world. There was a sense of solitude tugging at my heart-strings. I seemed like one suddenly cut aloof from the rest of mankind, and thrown out on a great sea to buffet the waves of fortune and sink or swim all by myself. When I engaged the rooms I said I would go on alone; but a week or two after my return, Ned Whiting moved in, and the next day the card of "Head & Whiting, Attorneys at Law," appeared in the papers. But I was destined to struggle alone, notwithstanding. Ned caught another cold,-his cough set in with renewed violence, and, accompanied by his mother and sister, he fled to find a warmer clime in the Bermudas. The winter that followed was one of extraordinary dull- ness to me. There was no longer the name of Mr. Willis to attract clients or company to the office. Ned Whiting, whose calls had heretofore enlivened many a dull hour, was suffering under the slow yet sure ravages of the de- stroyer, consumption. The letters of Bell to Anderson were full of despondency concerning him. This saddened me. Then I absented myself from all places of amusement, and adhered closely to the office. Perhaps I was led to it, be- cause neither Anderson nor Miss Willis went out,-the   394        AMYSELF.      . one because of the death of her father, the other because . of the absence of his affianced, rumor having already said i so much for him and Bell.                : Clients were scarce. I had flattered myself, while with the old firm, that I attracted a fair share of the busi- ness. IfI did, I soon found that the attraction had ceased .S Clients demand something besides ability in a lawyer. They want attention-the closest attention-to their inter-  ests. An attorney can no more neglect his clients than / can a physician neglect his patients. If he does, clients go elsewhere. Mr. Hall had the merit of sticking to his  office. He was ready at all times to receive clients and to !. attend to their wants; and they remained on that side of  the passage. I know not what inducements he used to keep them there. I know not what he said of me. It was enough that about everybody who came up the stairs turnedI in at the door on the right, to the neglect of that on the i left. It is true that John Littlegood visited the rooms on 4i, the left; but he only followed the library. This state of affairs irritated me. It was something I had not anticipated. I found myself suddenly dropped  iI from  high hopes to a position where I was struggling to I meet expenses. It made me moody,-almost morose. A lawyer's life is one of strife. It is by fighting degal  warfare) that he lives and thrives. To be in any degree successful, he must be a good fighter. In my present con- dition of mind I had not that inclination to crowd myself ! into the arena that I once had. I could fight when obliged  'to, and one or two occasions happened. Then I so far shook off the morbidness that had settled on me as to come i off victorious, and win an eclat that not only added to my professional pride and reputation, but brought new clients. It would have been fortunate had they come in such num- bers as to have occupied all my attention, and allowed me no opportunity for dwelling on other matters. Beyond these one or two spirited cases in court, only  one incident enlivened the dull monotony of the winter.- In passing along Court Street one day, I plumped against "John Trusty."  The recognition was mutual. My first impulse was to stop and accost him,-to detain. him at all hazards, even though I should have to deliver him   M YSELNF.          395 over to the police. But that would be a questionable proceeding, and might result in more damage to me than to him. I made a bare halt, and then passed on. At the next corner I darted off to the office of the detective, and sent him on the track. All day he searched, and came to me in the evening to announce his failure. Then I re- gretted that I had not acted up to my impulse,-given him into the hands of the police. Such a proceeding would have had the effect to reveal his name, no matter as to the consequences to me. I fretted considerably over the affair. In consequence of it, and my ill success in business, I grew lean. I had no appetite either for food or for labor. I sat in the office and moped. Sometimes I wondered at myself that I did not rouse up and shake off the infliction. But who can cure himself of a disease in a moment,-especially a dis- ease like mine? I resolved to make one more effort to cause Kate Blade to unmask herself. I was impressed with the idea that Kate believed she had good cause for hiding from me, and I thought if I could shake that belief she would dis- cover herself. To tell the truth, my conscience accused me of having done her a wrong, and I did not know but she was aware of it, and kept aloof in consequence. Act- ing upon this resolve, I sat down and wrote the following advertisement, and had it inserted in all the country newspapers: INFORMATION WANTED.-If a person by the name of Catharine Blake, whose parents once resided in Northfield, New Hampshire, will call at No. ---, Court Square, Room 4, Boston, she will hear of some- thing to her advantage. Any person who will give information of the whereabouts of the said Catharine Blake will be liberally rewarded on application as above. No answer nor information came. I grew indignant,- a sign of returning healthy mind. If she utterly refused to allow me to vindicate myself, she might go. Circumstances sometimes combine to change one's feel- ings. Just as I began to get angry about Kate, my feelings were mollified in regard to Miss Willis. I had kept en- tirely aloof from her. I had gone so far even as to decline accompanying Anderson in calling on her, alleging as an   396         XYSI g,              ad 39^6 1MYSELF.                   : excuse some pressing business that I had to attend to,-a lie. But Miss Willls came down to visit me. She came, too, when other persons in like cases would have sent a note requesting me to visit them. Master George Temple, who was office-boy when I was. first taken into the service; of Mr. Willis, was about entering college with a view to Aie qualifying for the law, and she wished me to receive him as a student in my office. "I have taken upon myself the charge of his expenses," !!. said she. "He shall be at no expense in my office," I replied,  though I thought it was looking a long ways ahead. "I suppose not. And you will give him all the advan-: tages you are able to afford to a protege of my father, now ? become mine."  "With the greatest pleasure, Miss Willis. I feel happy at having the opportunity to do so."  "Then that's settled," she remarked. "I have called rather early, perhaps, Mr. Head, but his future career has ?I been the subject of correspondence between us, and it was  only this morning that I received his letter stating that he, would like to enter the law. Consequently I have applied at once to you, in order that he might early learn the ar-i rangements I am to make. You are not looking as well as when I last saw you, Mr. Head. I am afraid your busi-  ness confines you too -much to the office." The latter portion of the speech was made as she rose  to depart X "It is anything but a heavy business that confines me," said I, attempting a smile. "Indeed! is not your business good? You ought not  to have relinquished my father's custom to Mr. Hall." "I cared not to have any trouble with him," said I, "and as he had obtained a lease of the office, I could do no less than remove." "Oh! but he has not a lease of the office," she replied. "I see you have been misused." "Let it pass," I returned. "Perhaps it is best that I should suffer a little." She lookedgat me inquiringly. I parried explanation by remarking,--   vMYSELF.         397 "By-the-by, I do not think you look so well as when I saw you last!"She was paler and thinner than at our last interview. "I have been much confined; and you know, Mr. Head, that I have responsibilities now." "I hope you are not- beset by any difficulties. You intimated once that you had suspicion----" "Of Mr. Easthurn?  He was superseded by Mr. Lewis. " The entrance of some gentlemen put an end to our con- versation, or I might have said something further concern- ing the late agent. I was affected by the manner of Miss Willis during the interview. Though she came on business, and did it in business-like manner, there was a touch of that cordial good feeling which used to characterize her of old. I felt that her mood was altogether different from that which she displayed when I last parted from her. Although she did not inquire why I had not visited her, she plainly gave me a hint that business only must have been sufficient for the omission. "I have been ungentlemanly," said6 I to myself. "Yet I dare not trust myself within her influence until I am mentally strong enough to withstand the temptation I know I will be subjected to." This was the state of affairs when Ned Whiting returned home, the first of May, to die.  I found him much exhausted with his journey when I visited him. He extended his wasted hand with a smile, and said,-- "Nature allowed me a few days grace on her debt that I might die among my friends." "'I hope," said I, "that you have many days yet to live." "No," he replied, with a shake of the head. "I'm but a shadow of the living now. See," and he protruded a leg from the bed; " a beef-shank with no more meat on it would be rejected at a soup-house. I tried to give the old monster the slip by running away, but it wouldn't do. He's got me in his grip." He was indeed wasted,-mere skin and bone.  My 34   398         MYSELF.     ' \ countenance indicated my sorrow, observing which, he  remarked,--  "It may appear hard to be cut off in the prime of life; .  bnt why should I complain? I have done nothing worthy  of life. I could neither fiddle nor make a small town a great city, and, therefore, on Swift's hypothesis, deserve ) only to be kicked out of creation."         1 "Oh, Edward, you should not talk thus," expostulated [ I: : his mother, who was sitting by his bedside. "You have A always been a good son, and you know not, were your life spared, what your future might be."          L "Yes, mother," was the reply; "but the Italians have : a proverb, ' So good that he is good for nothing.' And  it is the uncertainty about a future life that makes me more  resigned to die now. If I could live and become great  and good, life might be worth wishing for. But wherefore ; wish it when we know not but it may be a life of pain and 1 misery, and perhaps disgrace?" Though this remark revealed the true state of Ned's A mind in regard to living and dying, he was haunted by the idea that he was cut down on account of his useless- ness. He applied the parable of the barren fig-tree to himself, and all the quaint expressions of his former life were retained in speaking of it,-expressions seemingly inconsistent with his present condition. ' I've murdered Time. Why should not capital pun- ishment be inflicted? A good husbandman saves only the best of his stock for seed. I am afraid that when the great Husbandman gathers in his fruits and grains He will find me but an insipid apple, neither sweet nor sour, X a small potato not worth saving, mere nubbins among the otherwise sound corn." I was ill calculated to administer consolation to the sick and dying. I was almost an entiice stranger to death.  The only corpse I had ever looked on was that of Dick Bradley, and the horror which filled me then crept over  me every time I heard of the death of an acquaintance. I could only say to Ned that few were so willing as he to confess their shortcomings. "It is a great merit," said I, " to know one's merit is not great."      .   MYSELF.          399 "A very clever paradox," he replied; " for it is no- thing but a paradox." But if I was a poor comforter at the bedside of the sick, Miss Willis was the very opposite. She was indeed a ministering angel. Every day she came to visit Ned. Every day she-brought flowers to place nearlhim, keeping them fresh and fragrant with frequent renewals. Often did I surprise her sitting by his bedside, low down on an ottoman, reading to him from some favorite author. She lifted his head and smoothed his pillow, and raised him upright when he was racked with coughing. Not even his sister or mother was so gentle, so useful, as she. Miss Willis seemed to know exactly what to do, and at the proper moment. It appeared as if she had passed her life in a hospital. She did not distress him with her atten- tions, so delicate was her tact and unobtrusive her move- ments. It was interesting to observe how all this affected the dying man. Though he gave no expression beyond a smile and feebly uttered thanks, his eyes followed her everywhere. I noticed that Miss Willis was growing paler day by day, and that she was shy of me, when I met her at the bedside of Ned. Yet she did not try to avoid me, nor did she omit any of her attentions to him because of my presence. Ned was all patience and resignation. As we stood by his couch, he said,- "The Great Maker is all-wise. He knows infinitely better than we what is for our good." He was troubled with an almost incessant cough, ren- dered more severe by the prevalence of the east winds of the season, and every day I noticed how great a change was being wrought for the worse. At last I was hastily summoned by the intelligence that he could not possibly survive another night. I found him propped up with pil- lows and laboring hard for breath. "It's about over," he whispered, his tone hoarse and accents broken. And then, after another violent fit of coughing, he remarked, smiling at the pun, "There'll be another kind of coffin here to-morrow."   400         MYSELF.    X        - l He had disposed of all his personal effects in the way of gifts to his friends. A portion of them he left for me to distribute. A locket underneath his pillow he wished me to keep. I found it contained a portrait of Miss W illis.          - "Don't tell her I had it, for I obtained it by stealth. It was no harm to love her, and it's no hardship to leave 4 what I could never possess,' He looked up earnestly in my face. "If you would but marry her, Whitehead,-- i just to keep her from that Virginian"  I was astonished,-not at the singularity of the request, nor the less singular avowal of his own love, but at the term which he bestowed on me. He saw it. " hitehead? You didn't know that I penetrated your secret long ago and kept it. Ah, it is here that I see how little wealth and station}are worth," He was interrupted by another fit of coughing. The family's clergyman came in and prayed with him, and at Ned's request the family joined in singing a hymn.  It was evident that he would not behold the rising of the morrow's sun, and at the request of his family, who l were nigh worn out with grief and watching, I remained with him.  After the departure of the clergyman, he lay back silent and thoughtful, patiently, as his dreadful cough would allow him, waiting for the hour of dissolu- I tion.  Presently Miss Willis glided in, and took her place on the opposite side of his coch He saw her and smiled. He was very feeble, but he held out his wasted  hand and she tookit within her own,  By-and-by he Whispered, withdrawing his hand and placing it over his heart,-  -           i  "There is a  strange feeling here. Another fit and it  will all be over." Miss Willis summoned the family in. He impressively h. bade them all farewells kissing each. Then he lay a moment with his lips moving. Seeing me intently watch- ing him, his hand sought my own, and as he gently pressed it, he murmured,-- "'Hide my blemishes, Whitehead, Speak of me as the  artist painted the face of his one-eyed friend, with a side view, hiding the defect,"   ;1 X.   MYSELF.          401 Then he lay back awaiting the crisis. It came; and as I raised him up, there was a convulsive start, the blood gushed from his mouth; his mother and sister shrieked at the sight, and presently, as I laid him back again, his spirit had fled to his Maker. He whose prospects were so bright, had perished in a single season. "Ah!" thought I, as I wended my way home, after seeing the corpse properly disposed, by what an uncer- tain tenure do we hold our lease of life! Another year and I too may join him." The funeral was attended by all the relatives and friends of the family. Poor Ned had latterly few enemies, and all his acquaintances came to pay their last respects to his remains. Anderson and I were among the pall-bearers. As we were lifting the coffin out of the church, my eyes fell on an individual in the crowd that caused me a sudden sensation. It was "John Trusty," and on his arm was leaning my little acquaintance of a day, Miss Lucy Pike, now Mrs. Nehemiah Stone. During the performance of the remainder of my sad duty, my thoughts wandered be- tween the dead and the living. When I returned from Mount Auburn, where the body was deposited, the couple were gone. Nehemiah Stone was an architect, and resided in Wor- cester. Thither the next morning I went. With the aid of a directory I found his residence, preferring rather to call on his wife than on him, and thus avoid the awkward- ness of a possible mistake. But there was no mistake. She confessed to attending the funeral in company with her husband. She said they hurried away from the funeral, for Mr. Stone was obliged to start for New York and several points South, that morning, to execute a commis- sion with which he had been charged. I asked her when he would return. She Said it was impossible to say, as he was engaged on some plans that required a personal ex- amination of several public structures, and he might not find what he desired without going as far as Nashville, Tennessee. Here was a disappointment. I was so near to the clue, and yet it was again snatched away. I almnost resolved to follow him, but Mrs. Stone said it would be quite out 34*   402         MYSELF.  of my power to trace him, as he had a very singular habit of being in one place to-day and another to-morrow, coming and going, darting here and there, in a manner that baffled pursuit. She might hear from him from New York, and then it might be from Columbus, Ohio, or Baltimore or Richmond. He would go just where he  thought he might obtain what he wanted, and would be guided almost wholly by the information he obtained on the route. He was a man, she said, singularly given to keeping his own counsel. I thought as much, for I had good reason to know how well he had kept not only his  own but the counsel of another. I wanted to sound Mrs. Stone in regard to her knowl- edge of Kate Blake, but I felt it would hardly do. If her husband was given to keeping his own counsel, she could not be accused of that amiable weakness. Mrs. Stone talked very freely of Ned Whiting and of his death,-more freely, perhaps, than I cared to have her. She asked me if I did not notice that Miss Willis was pining,-if I didn't think she gave evidence of a secret melancholy. I recalled to her mind that she had just lost a father. "Oh, that was more than six months ago. It is not  that, Mr. Head. I'm afraid the wound is fresher than  you imagine. Don't you remember how cosily she treated poor Ned Whiting at the time we went after those rabbits at Brookline?"                    I: I did remember it, and I remembered, too, how ten- derly she nursed Ned in his dying hours. "Miss Willis is not like other girls, you know, Mr. - Head. She never says anything. She would suffer for years and never reveal the cause, unless indeed you asked her outright; and few care to do that, you know." "You really think, then," said I, curious to get at the  conclusion that one of her own sex, and a friend at that,  had arrived at,-" you really think she was partial to Whiting?" "I'm sure of it, Mr. Head. She put on even deeper mourning, if that were possible, at the funeral, yesterday, and if one didn't know, they would suppose she was a near and dear relative. And then Bell told me all about i   MYSELF.         403 her tender care of him in his sickness. Bell thinks she loved him, and Bell is her very best and nearest friend, you know." So I returned to Boston with new thoughts in regard to Miss Willis. I will not say that I had not come to nearly the same conclusion as Mrs. Stone, only that I had fallen into a pernicious habit of doubting-doubting everything. A few days after my return I went to distribute some of Ned Whiting's legacies,-the present of a few rare old books to John Littlegood, who for a week past had unac- countably absented himself from the office. I found his lodgings in an obscure part of the city, and a sharp-voiced woman with a shriveled countenance directed me up a flight of crazy stairs to his " office." I mounted and knocked at the door. No one answered, and I opened it and entered. Littlegood had apparently 'just gone out. A copy of Montaigne's Essays lay open on an old table, half-covered by a sheet of paper that had been written over. I saw that Littlegood had been tran- scribing one of the numerous anecdotes with which the volume abounded. Curiosity prompted me to read the one he had appropriated to himself. It ran thus: "Edward First, King of England, having, in the long war between him and Robert, King of Scotland, had sufficient experience of how great importance his own immediate presence was to the success of his affairs,- having ever been victorious in what he undertook in his own person,-when he came to die, bound his son by a solemn oath, that so soon as he should be dead, he should boil his body until the flesh parted from the bones, and having burned the flesh, preserve the bones to carry con- tinually with him in his army so often as he should be obliged to go against the Scots; as if destiny had attached victory even to those miserable remains. People of the present day would laugh at this superstition; but it is a fact, nevertheless, that a box of Redding's Russia Salve, kept constantly with one's person, saves him from the ill effects of many a bad cut and bruise that might lay him up for weeks, or perhaps disable him forever, if this sov- ereign remedy were not close at hand. Sold wholesale and retail at No 8 State Street."   404         MYSELF. The conviction flashed upon me that I had made a dis- covery which would mortify Littlegood if he should be- come aware of it. I prepared to retreat, but met him at the door. He saw at a glance how matters stood.    ? "What of it?" he uttered, as I thought, rather spite- fully, and very nervously. "There is less difference I between us than you imagine. We both hire out our abilities for money. That's not Martial,-so don't accuse me of it. He said of lawyers that they hire out their words and anger for money."             , "'That which is honest is respectable, Littlegood," i said I. "That's original! At any rate, nobody else says it, [ these days." The remark seemed to mollify his anger, and as soon ? as I could I passed to the business that took me thither. He seemed touched with Ned's kindness, and accepted the books with eagerness.               ? 'He had wit," said he; "and a good deal of nonsense  that wasn't wit. But the counterfeit was as good as the  genuine with the mass. Wit is well enough, but too much ? of it is like too much of heavy bank notes, and no small X change-it can't be used on every occasion. That which : he thought bank-notes, though, was only change, and so X it passed with the crowd."      I remarked upon Ned's amiability.          I ' De mortuis nil nisi bonum," said he. "Otherwise I might speak of his treatment one day at your office."  I knew to what occasion he referred. I had a desire to X sound Littlegood in regard to his occupation. I only learned that in the earlier portion of his life he wrote a - romance. To his present mode of life he studiously   X avoided reference. "Why did you not continue?"I asked. 'You say - your maiden effort was successful."   :1 "The reason wouldn't interest you," he replied, doggedly.  "'Why so?" "I don't know; perhaps it will, after all. My wife entertained the idea that my heroine was a certain young lady of our acquaintance, of whom she got horribly jeal-   MYSELF.         405 ous. If I ever sat down to my writing afterward, it was, ' Now, John, I don't want any more of your nasty, good- for-nothing Mary Wilsons!' The good God deliver you from a jealous wife!" exclaimed John Littlegood. I soon understood that the sharp-voiced female who directed me up the stairs was Littlegood's better, or rather worser half. Here was the secret of one failure in life I The ice once broken, Littlegood gave vent to his spleen, and aimed at the whole sex. "Marrying and going to war are all one,-in either case a man exposes himself to everything that happens. Don't get married, sir!" "Why not?"I replied. "I do not subscribe to all of your sentiment. Many women are truly helpmeets to their husbands." ; "Bah I If not jealous, they are extravagant. You know nothing about it. A married man is like Ocmes in the fable, who perpetually twisted a rope of hay, while an ass at the other end was perpetually eating it. Only he is the ass who gets married, sir!" ' Just then the shriveled face of Mrs. Littlegood appeared at the door. "I'll warrant it!" she exclaimed. "Just like you I No doubt you have been telling all about your Mary Wilson, and how you-hate your own loving, lawful wife. Oh, you -you --you-- would break my-my -my heart if you- you-you could!" she sobbed. He attempted to pacify her, but she would not be paci- fied. I felt that I had no right to remain a spectator of the scene, and took my leave. John Littlegood never visited my office again,   406          MYSELF. CHAPTER   XXXVI.            i How I ran "John Trusty" to Earth; how an Attempt was made to break the Will of the late Mr. Willis; how I went to offer my services to Miss Willis, and what came of it.               - JUST about this time there was an ill-defined rumor,  i traceable to no responsible source, that the relatives of l the late Mr. Willis- the family of his sister, and some cousins-purposed breaking his will. On what grounds they were to base their action, rumor was not agreed. One was that Miss Willis was not his daughter,--that she was, if not an impostor, only anotherprotegee. I paid no atten- tion whatever to the rumor, for I'had seen enough of both \ father and child to satisfy me of its falsity. The will was ) expressly in her favor. It would be hard to show she was not his daughter, even if she were an illegitimate one. Summer had come, and Miss Willis had gone to her residence in Brookline, and I was immersed in my law- books. Business had picked up, and I was getting back some of my former clients, and was quite busy. I heard  :: nothing from Nehemiah Stone. I thought it time for his return, aid debated whether or not it were best to write him at Worcester, directing that the letter be detained there for him, if he had not arrived. I thought better of this, and simply dropped a note to a legal correspondent  there to inquire in regard to him. Answer was returned that he was still absent. Soon after, Anderson dropped in upon me. His face was full of concern.                   y "What is this story about Miss Willis?" he asked. "About the will?" a Yes.'"  "All stuff and nonsense," I replied. "They can't    : break the will, I would almost say, even if she was not his I daughter."                        { ' Have you seen her lately?" he asked.   MYSELF.          407 ( I have not seen her for months. I have been quite busy. " "You don't know how sadly she's altered. Bell Whit- ing came to me about it, and insisted I should go out and see her. She's absolutely the ghost of her former self. I never saw such a change. She appears to take no interest in anything. Her gardener tells me she takes hardly ally notice of her flowers or of her various pets. Is it possible she pines over the death of poor Ned Whiting, or is it be- cause of this story about the will? Bell thinks it is Ned." "I'm afraid, my dear fellow, there is too much truth in it," said I. "But I am shocked to hear such reports about her." And shocked I was. I could not understand it. One with such an apparent healthy mind, to droop and fade and mope,-it was past my philosophy. I knew how she loved her father; but then she did not droop in this rapid manner until after the death of Ned. I felt that I could not go to her, although I would. What comfort could I afford her? The next day I was surprised by Mrs. Nehemiah Stone. She dropped in to inform me of her husband's return. She had been out to Brookline to call on her former friend. "Oh, dear me!" she exclaimed. "What a change! Mr. Head, you don't know what a change! Why, you could hardly say it was the same person you saw a year ago. You ought to go out and see her, Mr. Head; and try to cheer her up. I really believe you have all deserted her, and have left her to die all alone." "But, my God, Mrs. Stone!"I exclaimed, in real dis- tress,-greater distress than I cared that she should know, "what can I do? I should perhaps only add to her misery." "I know, I know," she returned; "but go and try. She can't be worse than she is, and possibly you may dis- tract her attention. I only wish we could coax her away from there! Couldn't we make up a little party some- where?" I thought possibly we might, and yet I could not sec how I could make one of the number. I told her my business engagements prevented,--that I had already suf- fered heavily by inattention to the office.   408         MYSELF.  But that was not all the reason. I kept the balance to myself. I dared not trust myself with Miss Willis. Her passion was not more hopeless than mine would be, if I surrendered to-her influence. I promised Mrs. Stone, how- ever, that I would visit her at the earliest opportunity. The next day I had the opportunity, but instead of going to Brookline I went to Worcester. Nehemiah Stone received me with the air of a man who was at last discovered, and who cared little that he was. I told him I supposed he understood my business. He i replied,- . "I think I do; though I supposed the necessity of call- ing on me again no longer existed." "I do not understand you," said I. "Simply this," he replied; "I supposed you had given up all pursuit of her. I took that from your manner of meeting me, last winter, in Boston." "You might have thought differently, sir, had you i known that I had a detective on your track five minutes after, who dogged you all day."  "Did he? He might have found me had he dogged  me to the Worcester cars. I went straight there."  "And you have not seen my advertisement?" a   I "Advertisement? No."  I explained. He leaned his head on his hand, and smiled grimly, and yet I thought sadly. Then he raised up and said,- "This is an awkward business, sir,-more awkward, I fear, than appears on the face. I would like to oblige you, so far as it is consistent with honor. I must confess that i when I first engaged in it I little supposed such a scrape  was to ensue. You must think oddly of me." I assured him that he judged correctly.  "And yet I did no more than gallantry demanded. A pretty lady in distress appealed to me to serve her, and not betray her. You will confess that at least I have not  betrayed her."  I bowed coldly. "But I apprehend no such necessity now exists," said I. "I don't know about that. She has never released me  from the obligation, and if she did not reply to your ad-  ,           ,i   MYSELF.          409 vertisement, how can I construe her conduct other than that she wishes me to keep her secret? I tell you can- didly, it is an awkward business. I don't understand it." I bit my lip and grew red in the face. "Perhaps," I replied, "like you, she has not seen the advertisement. And yet I advertised in almost every paper in New Hampshire and in this State, out of Boston." He gave a quick, meaning smile. His face became quite luminous. "I would like to serve you, Mr. Head; but I think you know enough of me to feel assured that I will not reveal anything without authority." I caught at the word "authority." "Can't you obtain the authority?" "Possibly. I'll try. I'll promise so much at all events." "Meantime," said I, "can you not give me a hint why she avoids me?" He was silent, and shook his head gravely. "She dislikes me?" said I, bitterly. "I think it is the other way. I think she fancies you dislike her. " "Pray then undeceive her 1"I exclaimed. "If she only knew the hours of misery her failure to keep her appoint- ment has cost me,-tell her so, and beg of her for me an interview. Tell her there has been some great mistake; and that all maybe explained." "With great pleasure!" replied Nehemiah Stone. "But, sir, allow me to observe that I always keep a lady's secret. I will communicate with her and advise you of the result. But if she declines, you must expect no further revela- tions from me. Let that be understood. I shall not at- tempt to escape from you by artifice, as I did before. It sill be plain, plump refusal, cost what it may." "We will talk of that after the communication," I said. "Will it be necessary for me to remain in the city?" "As you like." "She resides in this vicinity?" "I answer no questions. Perhaps, however, it is best for me to communicate with you in Boston." "Very well, sir," said I, rising. "I shall trust you to represent my case fully,-for your own sake as well as mine, 35   "O      o   MYSELF. for I swear to haunt you till I know the reason of her inexplicable conduct." "You will never know it from me without her consent," he replied, decidedly. I declined his invitation to take tea with him, and returned to Boston. The next morning as I entered my office with my letters, on- my return from the post-office, I found Mr. Parsons, one of the executors of the will of Mr. Willis, awaiting me. "Good-morning," said I, pleasantly, to him, for I had been anticipating a successful issue of my pursuit of Kate  Blake, and felt rather pleasant than otherwise. "Any-  thing new this morning?"    "The storm has burst," said he. "What storm?" "Haven't you heard? They have commenced proceed- ings to contest the will." "N0?"  "They certainly have, and have retained Perkins and Brown," naming one of the very strongest law firms in the city. I looked at him for a moment in surprise. "That looks like business," said I. "But pray on what grounds do they base their action? I'm curious to know."  "You'll find out pretty soon," he replied, "for an ; officer is hunting you to serve the papers on you as one of the executors. It seems they have been working up the case ever since Mr. Willis died." "What does Mr. Lewis say?"I asked. "I haven't seen him. When I called there, last evening, he had gone to Brookline to see Miss Willis; and he hadn't got down this morning when I came by." I put on my hat. " I will go up and see him, Mr. Parsons. Although I confess I cannot imagine the grounds they have for action, the fact that Perkins and Brown are in it, makes the   matter look serious." I met the officer as I went out, and acknowledged ser-  vice. Mr. Lewis had arrived at his office but a few mo-  ments before me.                    "Well," said he, "they've commenced."                    .   MYSELF.          4x  "So I hear; and I have come to inquire about it. What's the plea?" "That she's not a daughter of Mr. Willis, but only one he picked up." "And adopted?" said I. "No. There is no evidence he ever adopted her." "Is there any evidence she is not his child?"I asked. t a"It seems to me that fact is the hardest to establish. I do not see how they will get over it." "Neither do I. But Perkins and Brown never take hold of a case unless they know what they are about." "That's true; and it is only that which causes me any uneasiness. You have seen Miss Willis?" "Yes. " "What does she say?" ',That's the strangest part of all, Mr. Head," replied Mr. Lewis, despondently. "She doesn't say anything. She neither admits nor denies. She seems wholly unde- cided whether to defend or not." I was completely surprised. "It looks bad," remarked Mr. Lewis, shaking his head. "Doesn't she say anything?"I asked. "Absolutely nothing. I never saw a person so changed as she has become within the last two months. She seems to have lost interest in everything about her. Her do- mestics tell me she goes about as if in a sort of stupor. She gives hardly any directions, and rarely answers to any inquiry, and leaves most of the direction and manage- ment to them. When I asked her if she should resist this action, she looked at me inquiringly, but said nothing. I thought to rouse her into something like resistance by calling her attention to her pleasant home, and all its beauties and attractions, and asked her if she desired to give it up and go out into the wdrld an outcast-branded as a cheat and impostor. She heard me through, and re- plied, 'I cannot take these things with me when I die, Mr. Lewis. I'll have to leave them then. If I give them up now, what does it signify? It will only be a few months, or at the most a few years in advance.' There doesn't seem to be any violence to her grief, Mr. Head. She is simply wasting away, apparently unconscious of her   4 MYSEL F.  condition; or, if conscious, utterly indifferent to it. Of course, she must have heard the rumor going about, some time ago, and has been expecting it." I confess that my heart sank as I listened to the narra- tion of Mr. Lewis. It looked very like an acknowledg- i ment on the part of Miss Willis that the allegations made by her opponents were true. "Did -she make no reply to what you said about her being branded as a cheat and impostor?" "None whatever. She didn't seem to notice it." "It is very strange."               "Very," replied. Mr. Lewis. I commenced pacing up and down the floor. "It is the more strange because it is so improbable," said I.- "I have observed her intimately. She ever called him father, and he called her his daughter. The affection displayed by each for the other was such as could only be displayed by parent and child. I can't believe it without further evidence. I think I would be obliged to have it / from herself before I would believe it."  I wish you would see her for yourself, Mr. Head," said Mr. Lewis, appealingly. "Perhaps you can arrive at something satisfactory." "If I thought I could," I returned, I would not delay a moment. In fact; I came here to offer my services in her behalf. Now I hardly know what to say." "Go and see her," he. replied. "If she ever needed the advice of a friend, it appears to me that it is now." "But I do not know what to advise, Mr. Lewis. The case is one of such delicacy that I fear I may wound when I would heal,-offend when I would be a friend."   i "You can at least show your good intentions," said he, "whatever be the result." I couldn't gainsay the truth of Mr. Lewis's remark, and I left his office saying I would visit Miss Willis at once. I had one or two cases about to come on in court, which he promised to look after for me in my absence. I went immediately to a stable and obtained a horse and  carriage and drove out to Brookline. I fastened my horse  outside of the grounds, and took the walk leading across the lawn to the house. Miss Willis's coachman was get-    MYSELF.          4 "3 ting ready her carriage, and as I advanced to the entrance Miss Willis came into the hall from the rear. She had evidently observed my coming as I left my carriage, and was therefore quite prepared to meet me. I was inexpressibly shocked on beholding her. She was a mere shadow of her former self. I never saw one who appeared more ethereal. When I looked into her face it seemed as if I saw only a soul,-an incorporeal being rather than a corporeal substance. When I took her hand I could not speak. Instead of being a comforter, I was sadly in need of comfort myself. Observing my manner, Miss Willis was visibly affected, and pressed her handkerchief to her eyes. I led her into the drawing-room, and she became seated, still silent, and tears still quietly falling. Several bunches of white flowers lay on the center-table, and her hat and shawl close by them. It was several minutes before either broke the silence, and then she said,-- "You are very good to come and see me to-day. I am just going to perform a sad office, Mr. Head. One of my little girl friends died yesterday, and the funeral is about to occur." This in part explained her emotion. I told her I was pained to see her sad condition, and if I had shown it more than I ought, I begged she would pardon me. I was not aware of the affliction that had befallen her, or per- haps I would not have intruded. Oh, it was no intrusion, she said. She was indeed glad to see me. The presence of a friend at any time was pleasant, and more pleasant at a time like this. I thanked her, and said I would be most happy to serve her. She looked up. You came on business?" "Partially," I replied; "but it can be deferred to some other time." "If you could but wait until after the funeral," said she. "Most willingly; and if I can be of service meantime, I beg you to command me." "Are you not busy? Are you not driven?" she asked. I assured her that I was entirely at leisure. "If it would not be asking too much," she said, timidly. 35*   "4         MYSELF. "It will not indeed," I answered. "I would like, then, to have you accompany me,-that is, if it would not be disagreeable to you." I begged her not to mention it. Then she asked me to speak to her coachman.  "That is, if I may make use of your carriage, too." "Oh, yes," I replied. When her coachman came, she directed him to drive  for the clergyman, and take him to the residence of the afflicted family. Then she arose, and putting on her hat and shawl, gave me a portion of the flowers, and I led her out to my car-  riage. She directed me where to drive, and, after going about a mile, we drew up before an humble cottage. I assisted her to alight, and, when I had disposed of my horse, fol- lowed her inside. A small coffin,- containing the corpse of a girl apparently six or eight years of age, stood on a table in an inner  room, around which were clustered a woman in a widow's cap, and several children. Miss Willis was disposing of her flowers about the face of the dead and the coffin, and directing those present in regard to some little details relative to the coming ceremony. We arrived quite early, and after she completed her labors, and the family had retired to another room to robe themselves for the funeral, Miss Willis beckoned me to her side. She was standing by the coffin, gazing on the face of the dead. "She was a beautiful child," she said, " gone early to her rest. See how peacefully she sleeps. Can you look on her, Mr. Head, and say there is aught that is repulsive in death? Rather is it not a welcome ending of all our troubles?" I hardly knew what to reply. In her present mood I  feared to coincide with her lest I might increase her malady. I And then I disliked to disagree with her, for I desired to win her confidence, and so pave the way to the business I  came upon. I could not be silent, so I said,- "Death is something none of us can understand until we have passed its portals. It is a journey of whichwe *ji   MYSELF.          41 S have no account,-a change in our condition, the precise nature of which no mortal can tell. We are ignorant even of that which borders just on the other side of dissolution. Through the gates of death we enter upon an undiscovered country whose confines have never been surveyed. We go to our deaths alone. No kind friends accompany us, to cheer and lighten our way. No traveled explorer is there to explain to us the mysteries which await us. Our only guide-book is the Bible, and according to our belief in the Bible do we launch out into this new and untried existence. This child went trustingly, for it is the nature of a child to trust. Others are fearful and shaken with doubts; others have their hearts set upon worldly pleasures and are loath to give them up; others are weary and worn, and seek the grave as a welcome place of rest and peace." "Yes," she said, " the grave is peace. The poor, worn spirit finds its rest there. I often think that I could lie down in my shroud as peacefully and composedly as this little child, and sleep as sweetly as she. Do you never think, after a day of weary labor and strife, how much of happiness it would be to go suddenly out into the great eternal existence, winged and free, stripped of this clog of mortality, with all your sorrows and all your burdens and cares left behind?" I saw the bent of her mind; and I thought perhaps it would be well to shake her views of eternity. Have we any assurance," said I, "that we shall go out winged and free,--that we shall leave all our cares and sorrows behind? There are those who teach that only the good in life so enter eternity. Others, they claim, are condemned to greater pains in that life than in this." "I do not know," she replied; "but sometimes I feel so weary that I would welcome the grave as a bed of rest. It may be sinful; but if I have a Father in heaven, as I am taught, I have no apprehension of the grave. I could go to it as this child went, peacefully, trustingly,-wel- coming it as a boon." "And leave all that is pleasant and beautiful in life?" I asked. "All that appears pleasant and beautiful in life fades and dies. It is as evanescent as it is beautiful. Something   4i6         MYSELF.  tells me that in the world to come beauty is eternal, and A peace everlasting." We had moved away from the coffin, and she had seated  herself by one of the open windows. Her carriage coming  up with the officiating clergyman, our conversation was  interrupted. The neighbors and friends of the family were i gathering in, and she went out to see if the family were  ready. The service was brief, simple, and touching. When it was over, I found Miss Willis's carriage was to take the  family who mourned to Mt. Auburn, where the corpse was  to be deposited.                    : I asked Miss Willis if she desired to go, and she said if : it were not too much trouble to me, she would be pleased  to accompany the cortege. So I lifted her into the chaise,  -she was quite a child in strength,-and we joined the . . procession. During all the ride she sat silently, as if s musing.  The grave had been prepared in a secluded part of the i! cemetery, and I noticed that it was one of many in a spot apparently selected for miscellaneous burial,--that the lot was beautifully laid out and decorated. I saw the attend- ant approach and speak to Miss Willis, after the coffin  was lowered to its place, and she gave him some directions  about the planting of some flowers; and then I divined  that the lot was her own, and was devoted to the interment of those of her friends and proteges too humbly circum- stanced to procure lots for themselves . As the carriage moved away with the family, Miss Willis asked me if I would not drive her to where her father was interred. In a few moments we arrived at the spot. She  alighted and deposited over his grave a few of the flowers she had retained, and then busied herself a moment or two in arranging some of the plants that were growing in the o inclosure.  A stately marble column had been reared to the memory of Mr. Willis. My attention was attracted to the inscrip- tions which had been chiseled on it. In addition to his own name and the record of his death, there was chiseled the name of "Marion Spencer, wife of Philip Willis. Died May I3th, I83I, Aged 23." *                       2   MYSELF.         417 "This," thought I, "is evidence of Mr. Willis's mar- riage, even if he had no child." She observed me gazing at the inscriptions, and pointing to a vacant portion of the stone, she said,-. "There is room for one more name there." And as I looked at her inquiringly, she went on, sadly, but sweetly, "My own name, Mr. Head,-' Mary C., daughter of Philip and Marion Willis, died ' How soon shall the blank be filled, and all that is left of one you have tried t\ call your friend be sleeping peacefully here by the side of er father and mother?" How deeply did it pain me to hear her talk in this manner! She had evidently lost all her hold on life, and was casting her thoughts on the time when she should take a glad flight from earth. I thought to hurry her away from the place, feeling that perhaps it might divert her attention to other things. So I lifted her again to my chaise, and drove away. I expected to hear her request to be driven to the tomb of Ned Whiting; but she suffered me to pass out of the cemetery, and we took the road home- ward. I drove some distance out of the direct road, pro- ceeding slowly and tenderly, treating her as gently as I would an invalid, and she sitting quietly,-saying nothing, observing nothing, but evidently wrapped in her own sad, melancholy thoughts. It was past the hour of dinner when we reached her residence. Her coachman came out and took my horse and put it away in the stable, and I followed her into the house. She ordered refreshments, and though she barely touched the viands presented, she was very solicitous that I should eat heartily. I had, ere this, determined not to leave her until I had probed the secret of her history, even if I remained till nightfall, and I therefore prepared to spend the balance of the day, if need be, in drawing from her the desired infor- mation. When we returned to the drawing-room, I attempted to open up the subject. I saw at once it was distasteful. Still I persisted. I told her what was charged against her. She looked up. "You saw my mother's name on the monument?" she said.   "8         MYSELF. "Yes," I replied; "but you know, Miss Willis, in law, that would not be counted as evidence." "True, I was not speaking of the law. I was speaking of the opinions of honest men. If you believed me an im- postor, I might then feel hurt, indeed. The law may do i as it will, I shall hardly care to contest." And then, as if she felt she ought to remove any doubts I might have on the subject, she rose and requested my attendance to an adjoining apartment. I followed her without exactly knowing what she intended. The room was darkened, but she threw open the blinds, and there, on the wall, hung a portrait that at first I took to be hers. The long time it had been painted, however, forbid that conclusion. "This was my father's room," she said. "And that is the picture of my mother. Do you see any resemblance?" "As like to you as your own," said I. "I thought at first it was yours." She smiled sadly.         , "I never knew her," she said; " but they tell me that was taken during, the last year of her life, when, poor thing, she suffered under troubles to which mine would be accounted as nothing." I returned to the drawing-room, thoroughly convinced that the charge of imposture was false. When I told her as'-much, she seemed gratified; and then timidly requested me to bring her a few flowers. As I came in with them she was lying on the sofa, apparently very weary and very weak. I tried to resume the subject, but she only closed her eyes and remained silent. I found she cared not to converse, and I asked her if I might read to her. She, thanked me,' and said if it were not too much trouble she would be pleased to have me. So I selected a copy of Moore and sat' down to read from Lalla Rookh. I read for a long time, she lying quietly, almost without motion, on the sofa, sometimes gazing fixedly on some object in the apartment, and then with eyes closed, as if asleep. At last H thought she was sleeping, and I lay down the book and wandered out into the grounds and through the conservatory, wondering at this singular case.;, saddened   MYSELF.          419 -I dare not say how saddened--at such an apparent wreck of so much loveliness. I returned after awhile; and as I was stepping noise- lessly into the room, I heard a sigh from her that went to my very heart. It was so utterly lonely, and conveyed a sense of such utter heart-weariness, that I felt as if my own heart would break, out of sympathy with her. Still, as I came in, she seemed to be sleeping,-quietly, peace- fully, and motionless. An hour or more slipped by. I was sitting close beside the sofa, remaining still and quiet, fearing to disturb her, and she lying on the sofa, also still and quiet, and apparently asleep. It was only when a domestic came in with letters and the evening paper that she opened her eyes, and then I found she had not been asleep at all. She roused up on this, and after answering some inquiries of the servant, sat down by the table on which the letters were placed, to look over her correspondence. I took up the paper and sat down on the sofa, to look for any mention of the suit which had just been commenced against the estate. Nor was I disappointed; only I found nothing new, nothing beyond what had been circulated by rumor. I had barely concluded reading the paragraph, and was turning to look for the current news, when I was startled by a half-suppressed cry from Miss Willis. As I dropped the paper, she was standing half raised -out of her seat, supporting herself with one hand on the table, and in the other holding an open letter, out of which to the carpet fluttered a little slip of printed paper. She was gazing intently at me. Then a film gathered over her eyes, she began to reel, and as she threw out her hands imploringly towards me, I caught her in my arms, and conveyed her in a swoon to the sofa. A salver with iced-water stood on a sideboard close at hand, and it was but the work of a moment for me to sat- urate a handkerchief and apply it to her face. At first I thought to call for assistance, but then it occurred to me that perhaps I might thereby expose some new grief that should remain hidden, and I desisted. I threw open the blinds, wheeled the sofa' around facing the window, and allowed the fresh air to float in through the shrubbery upon   420         MYSELF. her. I obtained more water and bathed her face and lips. Then I brushed the hair away from her forehead. As I did so, great heavens! just underneath the hair, close to her temple, I beheld distinctly outlined a well-known scar. I saw it as plainly as I saw it after I had stanched the blood, years before, that trickled from her head in conse- quence of Dick Bradley's missile. A whole volume of light rushed upon me. It was but a step to the letter and the printed slip. I grasped them both. One was my advertisement for Kate Blake. The other was from Nehemiah Stone. Breathlessly I read,- C My DEAR Miss WILLIS,-You are dying, and all through a mistake. You think the one you failed, as Kate Blake, to meet, does not love Kate Blake,-and that the one whom, as Miss Willis, you rejected is too proud to return. The man loves you in both your characters. I have this moment hunted up and cut from the exchanges in the office of the Daily Spy the inclosed. He came to me yes- terday. You know not how wretched he is. I am certain he keeps aloof from you as Miss Willis because his sense of honor compels him to seek you as Miss Blake. As Miss Blake, he prays of you an interview. "Ever your friend to command, "NEHEMAH STONE." A moan from the sofa called me thither. Miss Willis was recovering from her swoon. I knelt down and lifted her partially up in my arms, holding her in a position where the air might fan her temples. She seemed to think she had been dreaming, for she murmured,- "'I thought Nehemiah Stone had written me. He wrote---" and then she stopped; and, after a moment, broke out in a low moan. ' It was only a dream! Only a dream!" I put my face close down beside hers. "He will never come again!" she moaned.  'He has cast me off because I did not go to meet him as I promised."  I held her close, watching her intently, as well as my blinded eyes would allow. At length she opened her eyes and became aware that some one was supporting her. She   MYSELF.          421 started, attempted to rise, threw a startled gaze round at me,-our eyes met; there was a holy recognition, a com- plete, full, and mutual understanding, and as I folded her to my embrace, she nestled down in my arms like a child, hiding her face close to my heart. How long I held her thus it is quite impossible now to say. She lay quietly, without motion, only I heard a sob now and then, which proved that she had not swooned again. I could not speak to her, for what could I say? My mind was running like lightning back to that occasion when I went to woo her as Miss Willis, and abused her as Kate Blake. I saw now why she was so excited then,- why she so abruptly left me, and why she did not, as Kate Blake, keep her promised appointment with me. I was terribly humbled. I knew, as I felt the quivering form I held in my arms, that she was now mine; but how to speak to her, how to justify myself in her eyes, was some- thing I was wholly unable to determine. I had grossly abused her, and I had shamefully belittled myself. I felt I had forfeited her confidence and respect forever. She had trusted in me, and I had abused the trust. I had shown myself puffed up with the vanity of a little position in life,-a position I owed wholly to her. I had revealed myself to her in the meanest light that one being could be revealed to another. It was not that I had tired of my old love,-it was not that my heart had been drawn away to another; but it was the excuse I had given for it. I could not go back to that Kate Blake because she was a low-bred country-girl; and I was telling all this to Kate Blake herself I Oh, I was a wretch! Did I not deserve all, and more than all I received? And did I not thank God the girl I loved had been more kind than I, and had forgiven so much? By-and-by she held out her hand for her handkerchief, and after she had wiped away her tears, she motioned for me to lift her up. I raised her gently, fearing to meet her reproachful eyes. But she could only hide her head upon my shoulder, and murmur,- "You will forgive me, Kirk,-forgive me all the wretchedness I have caused you; that I did not meet you, 36   422         MYSELF. Kirk,--that I left you to encounter all the desolation of your home alone." "My God!" cried I; "it is I who should ask your forgiveness. I deserve all and more than all I have re- ceived. If you do not loathe and despise me, it is not because I do not deserve it. I see it all now. You would have met me; but set up on the stilts of a little mean vanity occasioned by a little mean position, I could not think of meeting poor Kate Blake,-the country-girl,- angel though she was. And to reflect that I cursed you!" "f No, no, no,--you did not curse me, Kirk; you did not curse me!" she sobbed. "If I did not it was through your interposition. Oh, Kate,. or Miss Willis, or whoever I may call you, can I ever atone for that madness?" "You have atoned for it, Kirk. Oh, I have been a poor simpleton! I see it all now. I thought you ought to love Kate Blake and be indifferent to Miss Willis. I never thought of that subtle essence which draws two } hearts together, no matter how unconsciously." How truly she spoke! For the last few months I had avoided her solely because I feared her influence over me. "Then you will not upbraid me," I said, " even if I did love you as Miss Willis? I tried to resist it, but you drew me to you in spite of myself,-even in spite of the fact that deep down in my heart I tried to love Kate Blake all the while." "I know, I know!" she replied. "This day has con- vinced me. To have you with me,-to hear your voice,-- to feel your touch, has been happiness the most delicious. Oh, Kirk, how little have we understood this mysterious influence which drew us to each other!"      I "The mistake was a natural one," I returned. "I see  now I ought to have recognized you. Therei are scores of reasons very plain to me now, but I never saw them before. And to think that I abused you so shamefully, and you dying without a word to me."'.' ' Oh, I could not! I knew how I was drooping, how I might be saved, and who could save me, but,"-and her voice was broken with sobs,--"I thought you were gone,- , gone forever, and life to me was a blank."   MYSELF. 423 "But you will live now?"I said. "Oh, yes! I have something to live for now." How can I describe the reverence I felt for one who, through all the vicissitudes of life, through all my un- worthiness, had been so true to her early affections; who had been giving up her life for me, and now for me was returning to it! I knew not then that the malady she had exhibited was inherited,--that it was beyond her con- trol. I only knew that I had nearly broken her heart, that I was forgiven, and that she was happy. After a time, as we became more calm, and sat convers- ing over our new-found joy, I remarked,- "Do you not recollect, Kate, when we gathered those lilies on Woodhull's pond, I told you the storm would not last forever? I think it must be over now." "Yes," she replied, smiling and yet weeping, "it has cleared up with a shower of happy tears." When, late that evening, I rose to leave her, I told her what I had come for,-and how I had found something that interested me far more. She smiled and bid me come for it again on the morrow, and perhaps then I would not be disappointed. When I informed her how I had to employ Mr. Lewis to attend to my business in my absence, she said,-- "You must employ him still. Stay-I will give you a note to him." She sat down and wrote, saying she wanted me with her the following day,-"for very particular reasons," she said, and requested, as a favor to her, that he would still attend to my business. "Shall I add," she asked, with a pretty smile, " that I think of retaining you as my counsel?" "If you will make it for life, yes." "But I will hardly tell him that. I think it will do as it is." As I tenderly kissed her a good-night, and entered my carriage to drivel back to the city, I think I should have been the happiest man in existence, only that I had such a contempt for myself. I thought if I could only be transported back to my old condition, and take the one I loved simply as Kate Blake, never having known her as   K44          Y ASEF. another, and never having possessed any other thought than that she was the same pure being I ought always to have esteemed her, I could go down on my knees and thank God I was a man. The next morning as I met Mr. Lewis, he said,-- - "Well, what did you learn of her case?" "Nothing." His countenance fell. "Did she not tell you what she intended to do?" "No." "Did you learn nothing of her/history?" "Nothing I did not know before." ' It is very strange,' he said, with an air of disappoint- ment. "I was really in hopes she would confide in you." I handed him the note she had written. I shall try again, to-day," said I, inwardly pleased at the innocent deception I was practicing. He read the note and handed it back to me. "That looks hopeful," he remarked. "I will attend to your matters with pleasure, of course, Mr. Head. Anything, so you can get at the bottom of this business." "I think I shall fathom it," said I. I found Kate, or Miss Willis,-I knew not which appel- lation was the proper one,--quite impatiently awaiting me. As I led her in, she said,- "I feel, to-day, as if I were in a new'world, I am new- born to happiness. Oh, that terrible stupor! those weary, weary, never-ending days!" "' They are all gone now?"I asked, "Oh, yes! Life again is beautiful. Again I love my flowers, my pets, my friends." As my mind shot back over the past, and I thought of  all the misery I had caused, I shuddered. She looked at me in alarm. "Does it pain you, talking thus?" she asked. "Not more than I deserve," I replied. "When I think it was I who marred all this beauty, who came near blotting out your happiness forever, the word wretch is too feeble a name to be applied to me." "Oh, no, no!" she said. "Do not speak in that way. Had I not been miserable, I would not now be so happy.   MYSELF.          425 And being so happy, what right have you to be otherwise, or to make me otherwise?" I drew her to me, and said,- "Had you been with Adam in Paradise he had never sinned." "That is extravagant," she replied, chidingly. "You only mean that if I had always been Kate Blake " I'd not been a fool!" What a wonderful change had occurred in her appear- ance from the day previous! What a wonderful change, too, from her whom I had always known only as Miss Willis,-she whom I had always treated with such defer- ence and respect! It seemed as if she were the same gladsome, light-hearted girl of old,--the same Kate Blake of my youth. It was true, she was still pale and ethereal, but she was lighted all over with the sunshine of happiness and joy. All that reserve, all that stately dignity, I had known in her as Miss Willis, was gone, and instead there was an unrestricted companionship, a complete yielding up of confidence and love. I had always been impressed with the conviction that, however intimate my relations with Miss Willis might be- come, I could not hold her so near to me as I could Kate Blake. The respect and deference I entertained for her would keep me to a certain extent aloof. If I should ever offer her a chaste salute, it would'be gingerly, as if I feared to offend her, and violate the propriety of the occasion. Now I drew her yielding form to me, and bent forward and kissed- her with the same freedom that I used to kiss Kate Blake, and I received hers in return, as warm as it came from her lips the night we parted across the window-sill at the old home of Mr. Blake. Need I say the ostensible business I came upon was neglected? I dared not trouble her with it, for fear I should give her pain; and for fear, likewise, she might deem me anxious to know whether she really were Kate Blake or Miss Willis, a poor country-girl, after all, or an heiress. After a time we wandered out among the flowers. We went through the conservatory, returning by the summer- house. As we entered it she left my arm, and, going to 36*   426         MYSELF. one of the seats, reached down behind it and brought out a half-finished sketch. It was the one on which she was engaged upon a certain memorable occasion. I held up my hands before my eyes. "It is just as I left it at that time," she said, smiling. "I hid it away there, never wishing to look upon it again."' "Pray put it away," I said. "Or," I added, " blot it out. If I could only blot out the reminiscence connected with it, "twould be a consummation devoutly to be wished.'" "Rather will I finish it," she replied. "Then it will symbolize our happiness,-though deferred and broken, complete at last." Presently she said,- "I think you dwell too much on that little fiasco. Were you perfect, I'd be afraid of you. And when you know all that I did, you'll say there were two foolish ones." "And when are you to tell me?"I asked. "I do not know. Not now. I'm Kate Blake now. You must allow me to be so a little while longer." ' If you could be so forever," I returned, warmly, "I would be happy. I care not to know you as else." "What! and have me an impostor? You would not like that." "So that you never imposed on me again, I'd hardly care," I replied, caressing her. "I never will. And therefore I'm not Kate Blake. What is more, I never was Kate Blake. So you see the illusion vanishes, and I can't be Kate if I would." "You can at least in soul," I said, "' even if you can- not in name." "I always was Kate in soul," she replied, tenderly, "only I never dared show you my soul. Oh, it was a labored deception I practiced; and all for the purpose of surprising you in the end." "And I, like a mean wretch that I was, dashed your scheme all to pieces." "Well, let it go,---it was a very poor scheme at the best." We went back into the house, and shortly after it was announced that a carriage, containing Anderson and Bell   MYSELF.         427 Whiting, and Mr. and Miss Nehemiah Stone, was coming up the avenue. As Miss Willis went out to receive them, I slipped off to the portico, and threw myself down on a lounge underneath some shadowing vines. I heard the greeting and the exclamations. The party were evidently taken by surprise at the change in her ap- pearance. Presently a step came through the hall. It halted, as if its owner was looking into the drawing-room. Then it came on, out on the portico. There it stopped. Then it receded, going the opposite way. Then it came back and near to where I was lying. I looked up over my shoulder, and the great, good-natured face of Nehe- miah Stone was beaming down upon me. "Aha!" he nodded, with a twinkle in his eye. "I thought I'd find you around here. Somebody's been somewhat surprised. Somebody isn't so melancholy as somebody expected to find somebody. Something must have happened." "Something has happened," I replied, laughing, and, I apprehend, blushing likewise. "A big thing, too!" ejaculated Nehemiah Stone. "A pretty big thing for me," said I. "And a bigger thing for her," he rejoined. "I con- gratulate you. Is it to be a secret still? If so, I'm as dumb as an oyster." "You willhave to take your cue from her," I replied. "As for me, I'm too happy to keep it." "You look like it. And she looks like it, too. Never mind; I'll be governed by events." Just then the voice of his musical little wife was heard inside. "Where in the world has Mr. Stone disappeared to? He went out this way. Mr. Stone!" She came out on the portico, and as she observed us, she stopped short. Then something seemed to flash across her mind and she came quickly up. "I declare I suspect something!" she exclaimed, look- ing at me. "A little long-tailed rodent, eh?" said Nehemiah Stone, swinging her round and bringing her up under his arm, to which she just reached.   428         MYSELF. Mrs. Stone looked up at him inquiringly and then at me, and broke out, her face all illumined with smiles,- "Oh, you naughty man! you have gone and done it, haven't you?" "Done what?"I asked as demurely as I could. What you ought to have done long ago,-and put the poor thing out of her misery." And then she called out,-"Bell I Mr. Anderson I Come here I I've found something." Bell and Anderson came out. "What is it?" asked Bell. "A man! Look at him. Did you ever see such a 'guilty countenance?" Just then she caught sight of Miss Willis peeping through the blinds. Shaking her fan at her, she cried, "Oh, you naughty one, too! Come out here and let us see what you have to say for your- self," As she did not come, Mrs. Stone and Bell went for her. " We may as well follow," suggested Nehemiah Stone. "It is less exposed there." When we went in, they had Miss Willis between them on the sofa kissing her. And Mrs. Nehemiah Stone de- clared she had a good mind to serve me in the same man- ner, and would if it wasn't for her husband. "Don't spoil your good intentions on my account," staid Nehemiah. "I think I'll waive your presence, my dear, while I follow your example with Miss Willis." And the great fellow walked across the floor and kissed her tenderly, saying in a low voice to her, "Payment in full for services rendered to date." That moment I was enveloped by several pairs of arms, and considerable crinoline, and several lips ianet mine. Nehemiah Stone voted 'it about as nice a kissing-party as he had attended for a long time, though Anderson, who had been only a spectator of the scene, said he thought, so far as he was concerned, it was rather dry. Thereupon Miss Willis went up to him, and as he stooped down, she kissed him, whispering, "I'm so happy!" A gleam of brotherly affection shot out of his eyes upon her that told how much of her happiness he had at heart. A delightful afternoon followed. Those who came to   J$t        MYSELF.  cheer, were cheered. Never was there a gayer party. I  When the quartette were bowed away at night, and I re- turned with Miss Willis to the parlor, she became seated with a great sigh of relief.   "How happy they have been " she said. "But I doubt if they have been as happy as I." "Are you not wearied?"I asked. "Oh, yes; but not the weariness of old. This will pass. That was the old man of the sea." "And now," said she, "Mr. Lewis will expect his report." "And what shall I say?" "That I will do as you direct." "But how shall I direct," said I, "until I know?" "True. Know, then, there's not the shadow of a foundation for the charges brought against me. I'm too wearied, to-night," she said, "for the relation. Mr. Lewis will have to act for you again to-morrow. Come to me one day more, and you shall know all." So I drove back again to town, this time happier than the night preceding. The next morning when I met Mr. Lewis, he said,- "Well?" "She will do as I say?" "And you say?" "It is all right. There is not the shadow of a founda- tion for the charges preferred against her." He ran his hand through his hair nervously but glee- fully. "I said so from the beginning. I knew you would get it. That's the difference between an old stick like me and a young dog like you. There's nothing like a young man to worm a secret out of a young lady. How does she appear?" "Very much improved," said I. "More life? More cheerful?" "Much more cheerful." "I'm glad to hear it. So it's all right, is it? Perkins and Brown haven't got it all their own way, after all?" "Not quite," said I. "But I have to go to Brookline again, to-day, Mr. Lewis, to get at a few more of the par- ticulars."   430         MYSELF. "Go every day,-go for a week!" he replied. And thus I left him. I did not visit Brookline until past noon. Miss Willis met me at the entrance to the grounds. "I have a surprise for you to-day," she said, as we went toward the house. "Nothing surprises me now," I replied. When I entered the drawing-room I was surprised, however. Mrs. Blake rose up before me. "My dear, good aunty," said Miss Willis, advancing to her, " here is somebody you ought to know. Did you ever see him before?" Mrs. Blake gazed at me over her spectacles quite puz- zled. She did not recognize me. "Do you not recollect when I was a little wayward girl, aunty, somebody no bigger than I who used to help me to catch butterflies and grasshoppers, and make mud- cakes-the little fellow with the water-wheels? He has grown since then,-grown to be a great handsome gentle- man. Don't you think so, aunty?" Mrs. Blake opened wide her eyes with astonishment. "It isn't Kirk, is it?" "I think it is," I replied, stepping forward and taking her hands; "and most happy I am to see you again! Old times are returning." "Why, Kate!" exclaimed Mrs. Blake, " you never told me of him,-you never let me know he was near you?" "There were many things I never told you, aunty," she replied, tenderly. "I never told you why you could not visit me here and in Boston, and why I always came to see you. He is the cause," she said, pointing to me. And then she put her arms about Mrs. Blake's neck and patted her cheek. "It is all over now, aunty, and here- after your home is with me." In the course of the afternoon, I happened out in the garden alone. The gardener had just parted from the coachman. When I went by the gardener nodded kindly, and feeling kindly disposed myself, I fell into conversation with him. "Quite a change about here within a day or two," he said.   MYSELF.          43, I knew what he meant. "A pleasant one, 1 hope," I replied. j "You don't know how pleasant. There never was a sadder lot than we were. Now there are none happier." He alluded to the domestics. "She takes an interest in things now," he said. "She's herself again." "You notice it then, do you?" t  "Don't we? We notice it enthusiastically. We have mass-meetings over it, morning, noon, and evening. I've just been telling Jim all about it. He's been off after one of her relatives. You ought to see the resolution we have passed." "Ah!" said I, curious to know the nature of it. "Yes. I've drawn it up all by myself. But it was passed, though, by all of us, and Jim ratifies it." "What is it?"I asked. "It will hardly do to let you into the secret," he replied, shaking his head with an expression of drollery about his eyes. "I'm afraid you're interested. It's in yonder." And he pointed his finger in the direction of the green- house. I went that way. He looked after me queerly. As I went along, casting my eyes about, I saw he had arranged some vines across the end of the green-house, and inter- spersed them with flowers, so as to form an inscription. The inscription was- "MRS. HEAD." When he saw I had discovered it, he looked frightened. I could not resist a smile, though I got red in the face; and that encouraged him. "It was a unanimous vote," said he. "Adopted by acclamation, without a dissenting voice,-and sent to one of the parties." "To her?"I asked. "No; to you." "Why not to her?" "Would you? She might resent it." Just then Miss Willis came out with Mrs. Blake. The gardener edged off. As I joined them I saw him slip in   432         MYSELF. towards the house. The fellow knew well what I would do. I gradually led them around to the place and we entered the green-house. Mrs. Blake stopped to admire the -flowers. I led Miss Willis forward and told her the servants were overjoyed at the change in her; "Do I not know it?" she replied, tenderly. C"And -the -gardener has embodied their sentiments in what he calls a resolution," said I. She looked at me inquiringly. Laughing, I pointed to the inscription. She seemed a little touched at first, but then she laughed and said,-- *"I am glad they approve it. They have always had my well-being at heart." Just then three or four heads appeared at the entrance. The servants were peeping in, None of them but the gardener had seen it. Encouraged by her condescension they entered. The gardener had hastily improvised a wreath. I saw what he meant. He gave it to the house- keeper. I whispered to Miss Willis. The tears sprang to her eyes, and kneeling on a box the housekeeper came forward and crowned her. Then they all filed by and embraced her and ran back to the house. All the while Mrs. Blake looked on with mute surprise, and when the little episode was over, she exclaimed,-- ' Well, I never!" And she never did. On my third return to the city I was in possession of all the facts in relation to Miss Willis's or Kate Blake's strange history. The next day Mrs. Blake disappeared. There was a little demurring at first, but I told them it would be safer and better, until the trial came on; and she went. \        ;   1MYSELF.  zI        .CHAPTER XXXVII. How the Contestants of the Will of the Late Philip Willis went confi- dently into Court, and how they came out; together with a Relation of other Events and Circumstances necessary to a Full Completion of this History. I WILL not detain the reader with a relation of the pre- liminaries to the trial of a case in which I found myself the chief counsel for the respondent. Perkins and Brown went into court, on the morning of the day set down for the hearing, with the confident anticipation of creating one of the most profound sensa- tions, and of exposing one of the most adroit swindles of the day. The first man I noticed when I was inside the court- room was Jotham Hopkins.   le had been summoned as a witness. There were also several other persons from my native place.  I saw the contestants had dived deep. They had traced the respondent back to her childhood. Presently the detective I had employed to hunt up Kate Blake worked his way to me. "I suspect I have done you a little more mischief than will be pleasing to you," said he; " but I assure you on my honor I did it unintentionally, and quite by acci- dent. " "I am not quite sure I understand you," I replied. They have traced her clear back to her parents," said he. "They couldn't have done it but for me.   I wasn't in the case, but one of my chums was, and one day when he was telling me about it,--it was since you discovered her,--and he said they had been baffled en- tirely in tracing her back beyond a certain point, the whole thing became as clear to me as a pike-staff. You know you had drawn me off the pursuit; and he said you were going regularly to Brookline. Somehow I dropped a hint,--I don't know how I came to do it, but I did,--and they've caught her. I don't quite understand it, though," 37   ,' MYSELF. 434 said he. "They think they've got you connected with her; but from what I know they'll fail there." "They will fail elsewhere," I replied, with a smile. "They think they have a good thing, no doubt. The sequel will disappoint them." He went off looking puzzled. Perkins and Brown opened their side of the case with a statement by Mr. Perkins of the facts they expected to prove. He said much had been discovered, of very great importance to the case, since the first papers were filed. In fact, developments had been made since then which would expose one of the most adroit villainies that had ever been perpetrated in that community,-no more nor less than a conspiracy to get possession of the fortune of Mr. Willis by a couple of persons who had no more legal right to it than two Fejee Islanders. It would be recol- lected, he said, that common report gave the person now claiming to be the daughter of the late Philip Willis, and appearing under the name of Mary C. Willis, the honor of a birth abroad. It would be shown that she was a born Yankee. Common report-although there never was anything but report-had it that Mr. Willis found a wife abroad, and that this girl was born to him by this wife. He thought they would be able to show that while abroad Mr. Willis had no wife. He knew it would be pretty difficult to trace him during all the seventeen or eighteen years of his residence abroad, but so far as they could trace him, he had neither wife nor daughter. They would be able to show him in many places, and on many occasions, a woman-hater. They would be able to show, without question or cavil, that when he returned to this country no daughter accompanied him. They would show also that for several months after his return, he had no daughter. This matter of a daughter, Mr. Perkins said, was entirely an after-thought. It would be shown that the late Mr. Willis was a pecu- liar man. He had a strange habit of extending his patronage to young people,-to needy young men, and he thought it would be shown to pretty young women, likewise. Right here, he said, would come in the strangest part of this strange affair.   E;[          1MYSELF.       435 One of the proteges of the late Mr. Willis was a Mr. Charles Anderson. So far as could be ascertained, this Mr. Anderson was a very correct young man. It was true, he was of poor parentage, but by a modest behavior and a discreet course in life he had risen, and risen merito- riously. He had done credit to his patron. Another of the late Mr. Willis's prattgs was his friend, the counsel on the opposite side, Mr. Henry Kirk White Head,-a young man, who appeared here for the respond- ent, and very appropriately. He thought it would be shown to the satisfaction of the court and everybody else that Mr. Henry Kirk White Head was a partner in the whole of this nefarious business. All eyes in the court-room were turned towards me. Mr. Perkins was beginning to get a little flushed with nervousness, in anticipation of the sensation he would create. I sat quietly, giving no sign, and he proceeded. It had, lately been discovered that this young man, Henry Kirk White Head, who now appeared here as counsel for the respondent, and the respondent herself, were old acquaintances. Fortunately for the relatives of the deceased, within the last few weeks a clue had been obtained unraveling the mystery, and laying the whole of their little conspiracy bare. "Mr. Henry Kirk White Head," continued Mr. Per- kins, keeping down as well as he could his growing ex- citement, ac is a young man of more than ordinary talents. He has the reputation of being decidedly clever. I think it will be shown that he is cleverer than we have taken him to be,-altogether' too deucedly clever. He was born in a small town in New Hampshire,-of, as they say in the story books, 'poor but respectable parents.' He had for companion in youth, a young girl. For that young girl, he conceived a very tender regard. If a slang phrase were allowable in this connection, I would say he was particularly sweet on her. Somehow, the course of their true love didn't run smooth. I will not undertake to state the cause thereof, but certain it is, the old folks on both sides objected to their intimacy. Prob- ably they had their reasons for it. It isn't always well for parents to publish the little indiscretions of their off-  436         MYSELF. spring to the world. They objected to the young people rdnning together, and the girl was'sent off to school. This was doubtless a prudent step. We can't always answer for the consequences of a continued miscellaneous association of young people of the two sexes together,- especially when those young people happen to be a little lax in their morals." At this point I rose half-way out of my seat. I had listened to his insinuations with burning indignation, growing hotter and hotter, until at last it seemed beyond endurance. Mr. Perkins looked at me exultingly. He saw he had me " on the raw." "The gentleman will do well to sit quietly," he re- marked in a tone meant to be especially biting. "This is only a priming to the charge I intend to explode against him. He will recollect that what I am now narrating is only a preliminary statement. When we come to the proof, he will do well to wriggle." As I thought what the evidence would establish, I dropped back quietly to my seat, and nodded for him to proceed. He went on,- "This little)difficulty resulted, finally, in Mr. Henry Kirk White Head being turned away from his home. His father, a strictly moral man, endured his son's conduct until the disgrace was beyond endurance, and then he bid him pack up and go. He went. Whither, nobody exactly knew. It is enough that between two days he disappeared. But that- was not all of it. A few weeks- thereafter, this young girl, who had been sent back to school once more, disappeared likewise. All that can be certainly shown at the present time is that she went to the people with whom she boarded, and said her father had written for her. She pretended to show them a letter from him,. Then she packed up her clothes,-I believe she had honor enough to pay her bill,-and she went. Our theory is that this letter purporting to come from the girl's father, really came from Mr. Henry Kirk White Head. We cannot show anything certain in regard to it, however, but it is immaterial if we could. "By a singular combination of circumstances about this time, this Miss Mary C. Willis, reputed daughter of the   !If MYSE L F.                     437 r437 late Philip Willis, appears on the scene. She makes, so far as can be certainly known, her first appearance in this character at this time. Where she came from, nobody beyond those immediately interested knew. It was said she was English bred. Whether she was English, or French, or Irish, or German born, was not decided. It was enough she was English bred, and English breeding being deemed especially good breeding, a great many of our Boston young ladies fell to copying her ways. "This young girl occupied the position of daughter to the late Philip Willis. I will-not undertake to say it was not without hiss consent. I presume he understood it. Nobody knew that she was not his daughter, and as, just then, it was nobody's business- to know, and as she was good-looking, vivacious, and-English bred, although people wondered and thought it strange, and made it a subject of considerable gossip, she was received. "Time went on. Several years passed away, and this English-bred girl was in high feather. She was quite the belle of the town. She was reckoned a little singular, but probably she had singular reasons for it. At a convenient season-I may say a very convenient season, for this thing has been played fine,--another slang phrase, which I hope I may be pardoned in using- Mr. Henry Kirk White Head again turns up. He is taken by the late Philip Willis from the United States Hotel in this city, where he is found playing the very unpretending part of kitchen- colonel. He is taken by Mr. Willis under his protection --taken into his law- office, introduced into his family educated, studies law under him, and is finally placed at the bar, set up as a sharp and skillful practitioner,-how sharp and skillful a great many of us old heads have had good reason to know. "It is hardly necessary for me, in this preliminary stage, to relate what followed,-all the appliances made use of by this young woman in Mr. Willis's house, and this young man in his office, to ensnare their, victim. It is enough that they got him in their toils, and succeeded, as the sequel will show, in accomplishing their purpose. They were-in no hurry about it. They thought they had  'a good thing on the old man,' as they probably expressed it, 37*   438         MYSELF. and they moved cautiously. As I have already remarked, they played it fine,-and they played it well. I will give them credit for shrewdness, for adroitness. I will do more. I will give them credit for great ability. We all know that Mr. Henry Kirk White Head is no fool. - "The late Mr. Willis was a peculiar man. He was eccentric,-inclined to misanthropy, and was estranged from his relatives.. It was, therefore, not a difficult task for these two young persons to induce him to adopt one of them as his heir; and when he went out of this world to leave her his property. But all things have their end. So had this conspiracy. ' The best laid schemes of mice and men aft gang aglee.' This scheme did 'gang aglee.' It was left for the relatives of the deceased to explode it. That they will explode it, I leave to your judgment, gen- tlemen of the jury, after a hearing of the evidence we purpose to produce." In concluding, Mr. Perkins said they relied on two points. The will was in favor of the daughter of the de- ceased. They would show the respondent was not his daughter. The will named the daughter,-Mary C. Willis. They would show conclusively that the contestant was not Mary C. Willis, but that her rightful, true, and lawful name was Catharine Blake. When Mr. Perkins closed, there was but one object of interest in court. That object was myself. Every one was watching me. The judge, sitting in his raised desk, peered at me over his spectacles, as if to assure himself whether so much rascality was really concealed under so fair an exterior. The clerk was nibbling the end of his goose-quill, and watching tp hear what I would say to these most damaging disclosures. The jury was watching me. Brown sat half-turned from me, leaning forward in his chair, and supporting himself with one arm on the table, with his head thrown around as if to say, '"What do you think of that for a commencement?"Witnesses and spectators looked at me. Jotham Hopkins had his eyes wide open, and his mouth opened nearly as wide. I was cognizant of the fact that people were crowding for- ward on the benches, peering over the heads of those in front of them, to get a look at me. There was an ani-   MYSELF. 439 mated buzz all over the room, and whisperings and signifi- cant glances. Brown and Perkins had, up to this point, achieved a decided success. They had done what they set about doing,-created a surprise and sensation. For the first time in my life I realized that I was a hero. Were it not for the gross insinuations against the purity of the innocent companion of my boyhood, insinuations which I felt were not wholly unwarranted by the peculiar circumstances that seemed to accompany the case, I think I should have enjoyed the situation. Even as it was, I debated whether it were not best to delay the denouement awhile, in order that I might wear this new character, and obtain a slight inkling of the experiences and feelings of a reputed rascal. I had never seen a prettier case made out than had been made out in hypothesis by Mr. Perkins. Circumstantially it was correct. I was astonished at the very plausibility,--even the probability of it. The chain was apparently so perfect, and such a clear case stated, that I did not wonder everybody was astonished, and that everybody looked at me. I do not know how I appeared.  I only know that as I glanced at Mr. Lewis, who was assisting me in the case, I saw he was completely thunderstruck. This amused me; and I thought I would delay the case and go out, if for just a day, to see how my friends and the world would treat me. In imagination I could see them shy off as I approached. I could see them whisper to each other and nod their heads and point at me. I had become a char. acter for the whole city to stare at. Here was one, a lady, poking her companion with a parasol as I went by, and pointing with the end of it, and whispering, "That's him!" Here were a group of gentlemen, stopping, and turning round to look at me, "An adroit scoundrel! But Perkins and Brown unearthed him! Sharp fellows, Per- kins and Brown!" Presently my mind reverted to the little surprise I had in store for those who appeared so surprised by Perkins and Brown. I thought how one story is good until an- other story is told. I acknowledged to myself that it was a splendid case of circumstantial evidence. And then as I  thought of the circumstances,--how apparently com-   "O         MAfYSSE LF. plete the chain, and that only a single link was wanting, and the absence of that link utterly, destroyed it, it flashed on me upon what a single, slender thread hung the de- fense. All the dread consequences of a substantiation of the allegations of Perkins and Brown rose up before me, -disgrace, ruin, the penitentiary! There was a time when I thought death had been cruel. Death had upset all my calculations of returning to my native village, after eight years' absence, and surprising my father and Mr. Blake. Death had snatched away my benefactor, Mr. Willis. Death had claimed for his own my friend, Ned Whiting. Death had nearly deprived me of her I loved as I did my life. But after all, Death had been kind. It had spared to me those who could lay open this whole mystery, and set her whom I defended blameless and innocent before the world. In sparing them, it spared both of us a criminal prosecution for con- spiracy to defraud, a conviction, and long years of im- prisonment. Death had swept away two witnesses for the defense. Only two more remained. Those gone, and all this chain of circumstances alleged by Mr. Perkins against us would become evidence-circumstantial it is true-beyond our power to explain away. We would go out of that court not only beaten, but branded-she as an impostor, I as a swindler, and both as conspirators. Is it any wonder I shuddered? Is it any wonder that hard as I had -thought Death had used me, I now thought Death was very kind? When Mr. Perkins had concluded his opening, they proceeded to call their witnesses for the purpose of having them sworn. I sat thinking of what I have just narrated. Those about me thought I was stupefied at the exposure of my villainy. My attention was aroused when the name of Jotham Hopkins was called. I looked round, and a long line of people was stretched outside the bar. They were the witnesses for the complainants. This recalled me to the case. I rose to my feet. "( May it please the court," said I, " from the array of witnesses called in behalf of the complainants, it is evi- dent they anticipate a protracted trial. As. it is the desire of the respondent to have all the facts developed, and ,t   I              MYSELF.         441 "x developed in the shortest and most direct method possi- ble, it may perhaps be well to see how far the learned counsel on the other side will be compelled to prove their case." "What do you mean by that?" asked Mr. Perkins. "Simply whether a portion of the statements as set forth by you may not be admitted." "Certainly; we have no objection. You may admit all, if you please. If you do not, we have plenty of wit- nesses here to sustain them." "Very well," said I. C Let us see first what we will admit. I am free to confess that this array of witnesses quite appalls me, and as they will probably only prove what the respondent in this case is prepared to admit, I do not see why we may not as well go over the ground of contest first." If all parties were astonished when Mr. Perkins had concluded his opening, they were more astonished now. "Do you mean to be understood," said Mr. Perkins, no less astonished than the balance, "that the respondent in this case is prepared to come down without a fight, that the conspiracy is confessed?" "Most certainly not," I replied. "I do mean to be understood, however, as saying that a large amount of what the complainants expect to prove here the respond- ent does not deny." "Very well," said the court, "you will go on then, gentlemen, and settle on what is to be admitted and what is to be proved." Thereupon Perkins and Brown ordered their witnesses to be seated. "Now," said Mr. Perkins, "what do you admit? Do you admit that the respondent is not the daughter of the deceased whose heir she pretends to be?" "No." "Do you admit that her name is Catharine Blake, and not Mary C. Willis?" "No.'" "What do you admit, then?" said Mr. Perkins. "It seems to me that is all there is of it." "What are all those witnesses for?"I asked, pointing  "2         MYSEL;F. to the array. "Not more than four are expected to show the respondent is Miss Blake. The others are expected to prove what?" "That the late Mr. Willis never had a daughter nor a wife with him while he was abroad." Well, we admit that." "How is that?" inquired the court. "Does the re- spondent admit that Mr. Willis had no daughter while abroad?" "Not exactly, may it please your honor. We admit that he had no daughter with him while abroad." ," Then all this stuff about the English-bred girl was a fiction?" said Mr. Perkins. "Oh, yes." "And the girl was never abroad?" "Not with her father. All the reports about Mr. Wil- lis having had a wife abroad, about having a daughter with him while abroad, and bringing her back with him, we admit to be without foundation." The court made a memorandum. "Then that brings us down to the necessity of only showing that this girl Willis, as she claims to be, is a Miss Blake. You do not admit, I understand, that she is Miss Blake?" a No." "Then we'll have to prove it. Mr. Clerk, swear Jotham Hopkins." "Stop a moment," said I. "If the court please, I would like to know what the learned counsel propose to prove by Jotham Hopkins? Perhaps we can get at some more admissions." "We expect him to identify the respondent as Catha- rine Blake. And for that purpose we shall ask to have' the respondent brought into court." "In good time," I replied. "But in what manner is Jotham to identify her? Anything beyond the fact that the respondent was for many years known as Catharine Blake?" "That's enough, isn't it?" "I hardly think it is. May it please the court," said I, turning to the judge, "if I understand the intention   of the learned counsel here, they purpose to show that the respondent, Mary C. Willis, was for many years known as Catharine Blake?" "That is exactly what we propose to show," said Mr. Perkins. "Then we admit it," said I, "One moment," said the court. "You admit the re- spondent in this case has been known as Catharine Blake?" 'We do." "For what length of time?" "For some sixteen or seventeen years." "Was she known by any other name?" "Only to a few. Her accredited name was Catharine Blake; she was known to the public as Catharine Blake, and only as Catharine Blake," "Very well, gentlemen," remarked the court to the opposite side. "What next? It seems this case is nar- rowing down considerably." Mr. Perkins was running his hand through his hair. He evidently was at a loss. He didn't know what to make of it. The interest in the court-room was increasing. "I do not see," said Mr. Perkins, slowly, "'but they admit the whole of our case. They admit that the story about a wife and daughter in Europe is bosh, and they admit that the respondent and Catharine Blake are one and the same person." "Exactly," said I. "But that does not establish the fact that the respondent is not the daughter of the late Mr. Willis, and that her name is not Mary Catharine Willis." "I think it does by implication, Mr. Head," remarked the court. "I think the burden of proof is now on the respondent. I am not certain, however. We will go over it again. You admit that the common report, the generally-received report, was that the respondent was brought from abroad by the late Mr. Willis, and that this report is not true?" "We do." ' You also admit that the respondent for some sixteen years was known only as Catharine Blake?" "We do. We will go further, may it please the court.    MYSELF. "4 We admit that the respondent for some thirteen years re- sided with David and Mehitable Blake in the town of Northfield, New Hampshire; that she passed as their daughter; that she went by the name of Catharine Blake, and was known as Catharine Blake; that as Catharine Blake I knew her, and that I knew her by no other name ; that we were children together; that we grew up together; that our intimacy was objected to; that I was turned away from my home on account of it; that I left my native town between two days, as the gentleman has been pleased to term it; that I disappeared ;that shortly after the re- spondent disappeared from her school; that shortly after this she reappeared as Miss Willis, the daughter of the late Philip Willis; that as such daughter she passed several years; that I then reappeared on the scene; that I was taken by Mr: Willis from the United States Hotel, where, as the gentleman says, I was playing the unpretending part of kitchen-colonel; that I was taken into the office of Mr. Willis; that I was introduced in his family; that I studied law in his office; that under his patronage I was admitted to the bar; that I received many and lasting favors from him; that he was my kind and gracious bene- factor; and that I have deep reasons for reverencing and blessing his memory. All this we admit; beyond this we do not admit." There was a deep silence in court. As I turned about, Mr. Lewis, in a low tone, exclaimed, a My God! you have admitted it all." "' Not quite all," I replied, with a smile. Perkins and Brown looked at the court. The court looked at Perkins and Brown.  "I think," said the court, after studying awhile, " that there are enough admissions here to throw the burden of proof on the respondent. The generally-received opinion that she is a daughter brought by Mr. Willis from Europe is shown to be incorrect; while it is also shown that for sixteen years she appears only as Catharine Blake. This, I take it, covers her childhood, if not infancy. I think it will be necessary for the respondent to show how she comes to be Mary C. Willis." "If the court will allow me," remarked Mr. Perkins,   MYSELF.          445 i"I would say that we might perhaps be able to prove con- clusively, beyond cavil or question, that the respondent is Catharine Blake, only that a certain person, to whom that fact is best known, has been, as we believe, spirited away. Not being able to obtain that witness, we have to rely on general reputation." "I think general reputation will be sufficient," re- marked the court; "I think it will be necessary for the respondent at this stage to establish her identity as Miss Willis and the daughter of the deceased." "Very well," said I; "this is precisely the point at which we have been endeavoring to arrive. Mr. Sheriff, call Mehitable Blake." "Mehitable Blake!" called that functionary.  ^ "You will find her in the witness-room," said I. "Please have her escorted in." The officer went out, and then there was another ani- mated buzz in court. Perkins and Brown were evidently annoyed. The witness that they claimed had been spirited away was about to appear. Heads were put together and groups were formed about the room, parties evidently dis- cussing the merits of the case as it then stood. Mr. Lewis sat quietly, with his eyes glistening a little. He began to have some confidence in me. At any rate, he seemed willing to let matters take their course. Presently there was a stir at the entrance of the court- room. The stalwart form of Nehemiah Stone appeared, supporting an elderly lady dressed in black. He was fol- lowed by Charles Anderson, escorting Miss Willis and Bell Whiting. The appearance of these parties created quite a sensa- tion. Immediately there was a great crowd to get a glimpse at the respondent. People in the rear stood up on benches and peeped over the heads of those in front of them again. The court and the clerk, the jury and the bar, all seemed determined to satisfy their gaze. Jotham Hopkins, availing himself of his privilege as a lawyer, crowded himself inside the bar, and, with his hands deep down in his pockets and his legs thrown apart, stood directly in front of her, and looked as if she was some- body he hadn't seen for years, and was immensely tickled 38  "6        AMYSELEF. upon again beholding her. He looked first at her, then at the judge, and then at Perkins and Brown, and then at me, and then he changed his position a little, and went through the same performance with regard to Mrs. Blake. I had Mrs. Blake sworn, and she was given a chair near the witness-stand. The noise in the court-room was hushed down, that her evidence might be heard by all present. Perkins and Brown got their pens and paper ready to jot down her testimony. I turned to the witness and said,- ' You will please state to the jury your name." "Mehitable Blake." "Are you a married woman?" "' I have been; but am now a widow." "What was your maiden name?" "Mehitable Spencer."' "What was your husband's name?" ' David Blake." "Where were you residing when your husband died?" "In the town of Northfield, New Hampshire." "How long had you resided there,-that is, up to the time of your husband's death?" "About fifteen years." i You will please state to the court, Mrs. Blake, whether you know the respondent in this case,--the young lady here reputed to be Mary C. Willis?" "I do." 'Is that the person?"I asked, pointing to the re- spondent. "It is." "How long have you known her?" i' Ever since she was an infant.' "Is she your daughter?" "She is not." c, How is that?" asked the court. a The witness says she is not her daughter," I replied. Perkins and Brown exchanged glances, rather solemnly and inquiringly. They seemed to say to each other, "I Here comes the tug of war. This woman is relied on to sustain their case. We must watch sharp her testimony and break her down if we can."   "You will please state whose daughter she is," said I to Mrs. Blake. "The daughter of my sister, sir," was the reply. "Is that sister living?" "She is not." "What was that sister's name?" "Her maiden name was Marion Spencer, sir." Perkins gave a nervous twitch, and made a grimace. Brown smiled suggestively. "Her maiden name was Spencer, you say, ma'am?" remarked Mr. Perkins. "Yes, sir. " I waited till he had jotted it down. "Go on," said he to me. "What was her married name?"I asked. "Marion Spencer Willis." "What's that?" inquired the court, all attention. "Marion Spencer Willis," repeated the witness. "Put that down, gentlemen," said I to Perkins and Brown. "How came she by this name of Willis?"I asked. "By marriage, sir." "By marriage to whom?" "To Philip Willis, sir." "Stop there!" ejaculated Mr. Perkins. "To Philip Willis, you say?" "Yes, sir." He wrote it down. "Go on." "Who was this Philip Willis?"I asked. "He was the son of Henry Willis, of this city. He was killed, last fall, by the cars." "He was the party about whose will this contest is now going on, was he?" said I to witness. "Hold on!   Don't answer that question, witness!" cried Mr. Perkins, springing up.  "'May it please the court, I object." "On what grounds?" inquired the court. It's a leading question, sir. I object to any leading questions in the case, may it please the court. This witness has evidently been taught her lesson. I think she has learned sufficient to repeat it without any prompting from the counsel."  "8         MYSELF. Mrs. Blake sat quietly, but she looked at Mr. Perkins with surprise. The idea that she had been schooled into what she was to say, was rather astounding. "Please put your question in a little different form, Mr. Head," said the judge. "Well, then," said I to the witness, "was this Philip Willis, who married your sister, Marion Spencer, the per- son whose will is now in contest, or was he not? I be- lieve that is not leading." "He was," replied the witness. "How do you know he was?" demanded Mr. Perkins, suddenly. Mrs. Blake-turned her eye full upon him. The ques- tion evidently did not disconcert her in the least. "How do I know?" she asked. "Yes. How do you know he is the same Mr. Willis who was killed last fall by the cars, and whose will is now ill contest?" Mrs. Blake considered a moment. "The same as I know this is the same Boston I lived in twenty-four years ago. I knew him before he went to Europe. I knew him after he came back. I know he is dead, because you are trying to get his property, and I know he was killed by the cars because you declare it in bringing your suit." "How do you know that?" said Mr. Perkins, rallying to a renewed charge. "How do you know we declared it in bringing our suit? If you please, we want to know who has been talking to you on this matter." I saw the intent of the counsel, and so I passed Mrs. Blake a copy of Perkins and Brown's declaration. "I saw it in this," replied the witness. * "I supposed it to be a copy of your declaration. At least, it has the certificate of the clerk that it is a copy." There was considerable smiling over the court-room. Mr. Perkins resumed his pen. "Are you done with the witness?" said I to him. "If so, we will proceed with the examination." "Go on," said Mr. Perkins, crossly. "Then," said I, "having gone thus far in your testi- mony, Mrs. Blake, you will please proceed and state all   MYSEL F.         449 "9 you know about this Philip Willis, his connection with your sister, and all that relates to the respondent here, who you say is the daughter of your sister. If the gen- tlemen on the other side of this case," I added, to the court and jury, "are so nervous about leading questions, I will let the witness tell her own story. Mrs. Blake, you will proceed slowly, so that your evidence can be taken down, and speak as distinctly as possible, so that all can hear. '" "Well," said Mrs. Blake, settling down for quite a narration, "I and my husband resided in this city. My husband was a porter in a store in Dock Square. My sister Marion, when she was not engaged elsewhere, made her home with us. She was a seamstress. She was in the habit of sewing in a large number of families. She sewed considerably in the family of the elder Mr. Willis,-Mr. Henry Willis. While there, she became acquainted with Philip. I do not know how it was, but Philip became quite attached to her. He often came home with her to our house, and often came to see her there. At first I was considerably alarmed about it, and cautioned Marion, telling her she was only a poor girl, and he a rich man's son. Marion only laughed. After a time Marion was dismissed from the elder Mr. Willis's, or I should say, she was not employed there any more. Philip, however, con- tinued his attentions, and one day Marion came to me, and told me she was going to be married; that Philip had proposed to her and she had accepted him; that he had been to his father about it, and the old gentleman refused to give his consent and forbid him marrying her, and had also ordered that she should not be employed further in the family. She said Philip had obtained a license and engaged a clergyman, and they were to be married the next evening, if David and I would consent to it. I spoke to David, and Philip came and spoke to us, and said that he meant nothing but what was honorable to Marion; that he had a good practice in the law, and even if his father did cast him off for it, he was able to support him- self and his wife handsomely. He said he proposed, however, to have a private marriage, for the reason that he did not wish to quarrel with his family, and because 38*   450         MYSELF. he thought after awhile they would become reconciled to it, when they found it couldn't be helped; that he in- tended to give Marion music and other lessons to fit her for -the station he meant' she should occupy. Marion said she would much rather have it private and unknown, until such time as she might improve herself so that she would not be a source of mortification to Philip when he introduced her to his friends. So David and I con- sented, and the next evening they were married." At this point, I passed the witness a paper. "' Please look at that," said I, " and tell me what it is." ," It is Marion's marriage certificate," she replied. I passed it up to the judge. He examined it and passed it down to the opposite counsel. Perkins took it, and Brown rose and looked over his shoulder, and the two ex- amined it in concert. When they saw the signature to the certificate they whispered to each other, and glanced in- stinctively across the court-room. Then they held the paper up to the light, and looked through it, as if to find some watermark; and then they tested the paper by tear- ing a corner to see whether it were really as old as it looked. Then Brown passed it back to the court and became seated again, prepared to take down the balance of the testimony. "Now," said I, to the witness, when all this was com- pleted, " who married them, and who was present?" !"They were married by the Rev. Mr. Gannett, and my husband and I and Dr. Edward Fisher were present." In a moment nearly every eye in the court-room was turned on two individuals who had, during the whole pro- ceeding, been sitting near at hand, as if only spectators. One was Dr. Edward Fisher, and the other was a venera- ble clergyman, the Rev. Dr. Gannett. I glanced at Per- kins and Brown. Their countenances were quite blank. There was another buzz in the court-room, and people who had appeared anxious and expectant, were brightening into smiles. It was plain to see to which side their s)ym- pathies extended. I turned to the witness. - ' Please proceed, Mrs. Blake, with your narrative. After the marriage, what happened?" t' After they were married, Marion continued to make   MYSELF.1 45 1 her home with us. She left off sewing, and went out daily to take lessons in music and grammar and French." "How was it with her husband?"I asked. "With Philip? He took his meals at a hotel, and lodged at our house. He left his father's at their first difference about Marion. It went on this way for some months. Then I don't know how it was, Philip's father discovered the marriage. He found out Marion didn't go out sewing any more, and I rather guess he surmised it from that. At any rate, as Marion told me afterwards, he got hold of it. Poor Marion used to come home of afternoons from her lessons and sit down and cry bitterly over something --I didn't know what it was, and she would not tell Philip nor me. Something troubled her. This secret trouble grew on her and made her pale and feeble. By-and-by, when her condition would not allow of her going to her lessons, she remained at home, and then she grew better of it. But one day, just before her baby was born, she went out to make some purchases, and came home in another fright. We were all alarmed, but Marion still refused to tell us what it was about. That night her daughter was born, and in consequence of Marion's trouble she was thrown into a fever. While she was in the fever, she became delirious, and then I knew what had been the matter. Philip's father had been persecuting her. There were times when she appeared, in her delirium, to be pleading piteously with him. I never told Philip what I had discovered, for he was nearly crazed himself, and the doctor forbid him being with her in her delirium. At last, poor Marion died. Just before she died she became rational, and calling me to her, told me the whole story. For six or eight months she had been followed by the elder Mr. Willis with all kinds of offers and induce- ments to abandon his son. He told her what a disgrace the marriage had been to the family, and that Philip would get tired of her after awhile, and then cast her off. That he had kept the marriage secret for that purpose. He of- fered her money to go away and leave him. How much money he offered her I don't know. When I asked Marion why she didn't tell us, she said she knew what a temper Philip had, and she did not want to create any trouble.   452 2        MYSELE . She thought after awhile Philip's father would get tired of importuning her and nobody would be the wiser for it, -and so she concealed the trouble. "Marion knew she was dyingj and she requested me to still keep all this a secret from her husband. She said she was now going to do what his father desired,-leave him, -and if she had stepped in between him and his family, it was only f6r a short time, and when she was gone, the breach would be healed, and Philip could marry some one that his family would approve. She gave me her baby and wanted I should bring it up,--that is, if Philip were will- ing. She called him in, and he, poor man, was thinking only of her, nearly distracted at the idea of her dying, consented to my having the baby. "After Marion died, Philip seemed to lose all hold on life. He would remain for days in Marion's room, and refused to leave it. I took him food and tried to comfort him. Then his father came, and he tried to comfort him. At last his father proposed that Philip should travel. I heard him offer to support him abroad as long as he wished to stay there. He said it was nonsense of his thinking to get a living by law,--that he, the elder Mr. Willis, was worth enough to support him without labor. I know Philip said the law and the world to him were now blanks. He didn't care where he went,-there was nothing now to strive or to hope for. So after awhile, Philip went away to Europe." "Where was the child all this while?" "She remained with me." "After Mr. Willis went away, what then?" "After Philip went away, his father came to us and wanted to get possession of the child. He pretended that such was Philip's wish, but I knew better, and wouldn't give it up. Finally I got my temper roused, and I told him what he had been doing; that he had killed Marion, and wanted to kill the child; that Philip didn't know it, and that if he didn't let me alone I would write and tell Philip all about it, and, moreover, I would blow the mar- riage all over Boston. This frightened him, and he kept quiet. We named the child Mary Catharine, after my mother, and when she was a year and a half old, Philip's   M YSEL F.            453 father again tried to get possession of it. She had got so she could walk, and one day somebody tried to kidnap her. I saw him just as he got hold of her, and screamed for help, and he ran off. After that I kept the child so close that they couldn't get at it. "Finding, I suppose, he couldn't steal the child, Philip's father came to us and wanted us to go away with it into the country. He worked a long while on my husband, and finally he made an agreement with him." At this point I passed the witness another paper. "Please state, Mrs. Blake, what this paper contains." "This paper is the agreement made with my husband." "If it please the court," said I, "I will read it." MEMORANDUM of an agreement made by me this 20th day of January, 1834, with David Blake and wife: That I will purchase and deed to them a farm in any town in New Hampshire or Vermont north of a line east and west from Concord, New Hampshire, in which they may select such property, the farm not to ex- ceed in cost one thousand dollars; and that I will annually thereafter, for ten years, pay to said David Blake and wife the sum of five hundred dol- lars. The condition is that said David Blake and wife shall remove to the farm so purchased, and reside permanently thereon; that they shall take with them a child now in their care and possession, and aged two years or thereabouts, and called by the name of Mary Catharine; that they sh;ll adopt said child as their own, call her after their own name, and to all in- tents and purposes make her their own daughter, forever claiming her as such; that whenever they fail in this, either in calling her their daughter, or shall make known to the contrary, or shall divulge the existence of this paper, or any of the conditions of it, then said farm shall revert to me, and the annual payment shall not only cease, but they shall be liable for all the money I may have paid them on account of it. (Signed)                IHENRY WILLIS. We agree to the above. (Signed)              DAVID BLAKE. MEHTABLE BLAKE. "Now, if the   court please," I  said, "although  this paper is not very valuable as a   contract, it is excellent evidence in this case. I will submit it at this stage, and if the complainants demand, will bring additional evidence as to the genuineness of the signature of Henry Willis." The court took the paper. "You   say," I resumed to the witness, " that this was an agreement, or the  substance of an  agreement, made between you  and  your husband  and  Mr. Henry Willis,   454         A MYSELF. father of Philip Willis, and grandfather -of this young lady here?" "It was." "Did you see him write it?" "I did." "Did you see him sign it?" "I did. David had a good place in Boston, and I was afraid of some trick, and I didn't want him to give up his place until he was sure of something better. My hus- band was also afraid, and so we wouldn't do anything until he put it in writing." "Well, was the agreement carried out?" "Yes, sir. My husband selected a farm in Northfield, New Hampshire, and Mr. Henry Willis -bought it, and made him a deed. My husband and I executed a paper which he told us would put him again in possession of the place so soon as we broke our agreement. We moved to the place the following spring. We lived there until my husband died. We took the child with us and called her Catharine Blake, and passed her off as our own. Regu- larly once in six months Mr. Blake received two hundred and fifty dollars, which was paid him through a bank in Concord." "How long did this continue?"I asked. "Between eight and nine years. Then it stopped, and we found old Mr. Willis was dead." "What did you do then?" "We did nothing. We didn't know what direction the elder Mr. Willis had left. We had never heard from Philip, and didn't know whether he was living or not. Catharine had become like a real child to us, for we had none of our own"; and she never knew she wasn't our child." "How soon after that did you hear from Philip Willis?" "Something near a year. One day in the fall, Mr. Blake got a letter out of the post-office. It came from Europe. It was from Philip Willis." "Will you state," said I, faking a paper from quite a package, " if this is the letter?" Mrs. Blake looked at it through her spectacles, and an- swered that she believed it was. I read it to the jury.   C -                       455 -    DAVID BLAKE, Esq.       FLORENCE, ITALY, Sept. 15, z843. DAVID BLAKE, Esq. DEAR SIR,-I presume you know that my father is dead. lie left the larger portion of his property to me. After I left America, and lihad lbeni gone some three years, I was told my child, which I left with your wif(, was dead. I have reason now to believe this was not true. I have re:Lslo to believe the report came from my father for purposes best known to hinm- sclf. I have, since my father's death, had inquiries set on foot, and I findl you are residing in New Hampshire, and have a girl reported to be your own daughter, who is said to be about the age that mine would be if ali ve, If this be true, and the child be really mine, and not yours, I shall re- turn to America, reclaim my daughter, and accept my inheritance for her sake. If she is not my daughter, I shall scatter the property to the four winds of Iheaven. My father's aristocratic prejudices cursed my life. He thought to leave his fortune to a son who would perpetuate his estate, his principles, and his name. In his attempts he not only failed, but he has blasted the life and hopes of one who might have been his comfort and his pride. If it really be my daughter that you have, it is Iny desire that you take measures at once to give her such an education as may fit her for the so- ciety into which I shall introduce her. You will also see to her associa- tions, and allow of nothing improper or unfitting in one that I intend shall be heir to the estate of Henry Willis, a man who thought his son had dis- graced his family by wedding a poor girl, although that poor girl w.ts superior in heart and mind to the scores of women, either of whom lie would have been proud to call daughter-in-law.  Upon the receipt of this, I desire you to communicate with Dr. Edward Fisher, of Boston, the facts in the case. It is not my intention to sepa- rate you from the child against your or her will, but I think that you wvill agree with me that for her sake I should reclaim her, and make her my heir.                       Your obedient servant, PHILIP WILLIS. [I may as well remark here, parenthetically, that this was the letter received on the day of a memorable husking- party, and was the beginning of my woes.] I passed the letter to the court, and asked that it take the same course with the agreement of Henry Willis with Mr. Blake, which I had previously handed up. By this time the people of the court-room had toned down to a reasonably quiet and respectful demeanor, every one listening     intently, and  every one  becoming   more and more satisfied that there were two sides to this case, as well as to many others. Perkins and Brown had subsided very materially. They didn't care greatly to interfere with the progress of the examination, and only halted the witness occasionally that they might keep their minutes up with her testimony.   i456         MYSELF. Jotham Hopkins had worked around back of their chairs, and stood leaning on one of them, looking first down on their minutes, and then to the witness,-from the witness to me, and from me to the respondent, and then to the court and jury, evidently the most interested party in the room. At each new development Jotham would open his eyes, his mouth following; then he would break out in a grin; and then suddenly would duck his head over the chairs of Perkins and Brown to see if they had put it all down in black and white. At last Jotham came to be about as much an object of interest to the spectators as any one in court. The balance of Mrs. Blake's testimonry need not be re- produced here. The reader is pretty well acquainted-with the events that followed the reception by Mr. Blake of the letter just given. Several other letters from Mr. Willis, both before and after his return to America, were identi- fied by Mrs. Blake, and were submitted. One of them notified Mr. Blake that the writer was then ready to re- ceive his daughter, and that he would meet him on a cer- tain day in Concord, New Hampshire, where the transfer was to be made. He desired that it be quietly done, as it might be necessary to return the daughter to their care again,-that is, if she should dislike the change. Accord- ingly, as Mrs. Blake testified, her husband wrote Kate at her school to pack up her books, settle her bills, and come home, and that he would meet her at a point where the line of stage-coaches going and coming would pass each other. Beyond that Mrs. Blake knew nothing, save what had been told, her, which was ruled out. The next point was to identify Miss Willis as the party who had been reared as Catharine Blake, and turned over to her father in the manner described. This was done by means of the scar on her head. Then I turned the witness over to Mr. Perkins. I need not detail the cross-examination. It was evident from the first that Perkins anid Brown considered their case a hopelessone. They not only saw that the Rev. Dr. Gannett and Dr. Fisher were in court to substantiate the marriage certificate, but they had seen the city clerk   AMYSELF'.         45  enter a little while before, accompanied by a porter bear- ing a number of ominous-looking records. They labored hard, however, to entrap the witness into some contradictory statement, but they failed entirely. There was such a directness to her testimony, and each step was so fortified by documentary evidence, that at last they said she might stand aside. The next witness was Rev. Dr. Gannett. When handed the marriage certificate he identified the signature to it as his own. The marriage was so long before, however, that he had only an indistinct recollection of it. He did not then know Philip Willis, but he knew Dr. Fisher, and rec- ollected his taking him to a house on Leverett Street, at one time, to solemnize a marriage. This was probably the one. He was quite sure the signature was his-had no doubt of it. Upon cross-examination, he said he thought he had made return of the marriage to the city clerk. He thought so for the reason that he always did make such re- turns. He could not swear positively he had made it, but that was'his impression from his usual practice. Dr. Edward Fisher, who was next called, was more positive. He had been a classmate of Philip Willis. They were acquaintances and friends from boyhood. He knew of the marriage, or rather its intention, before it took place. He obtained the license and brought the clergyman. The clergyman was Rev. Dr. Gannett. The marriage took place in a house on Leverett Street. At his request the clergyman wrote out a certificate of mar- riage. At his request also the clergyman wrote out his return to the city clerk, which he (the witness) agreed to deliver. This was a part of a plan between him and the bridegroom to keep the marriage from being recorded, -at least until after the matter had blown over. No re- turn was made until some two  years after the marriage. He did not intend to keep it so long, but mislaid and for- got it. Witness testified that in his capacity as a physician he attended the wife of Philip Willis,--that he was present at the birth of her child,-that it was a daughter, and that the mother died in childbed,--that she was delirious, and 39   458          MYSELF.  that her husband being nearly so, he had ordered him to   be kept from her room.                   7 Witness further testified that during the last illness of the father of the late Philip Willis, he was called to him, --that the dying man made many inquiries concerning his son, and lamented exceedingly that there was no one to perpetuate his name, and that he let fall expressions,   i which satisfied witness that he had been deceiving his son j in reference to his daughter; that upon the death of the elder Mr. Willis, he wrote Philip his suspicions; that  i Philip ordered him to institute inquiries, that he did so, and ascertained where David Blake and wife had been     residing, and that they had been receiving semi-annually a  stipend of $25o. This he ascertained from a bank where the deceased had been in the habit of getting drafts for A that amount, which drafts always came back indorsed by   r David Blake. He ascertained that they had a reputed child of the age that the child of Philip Willis would have  been, were she living; that on referring to the records of births at the office of the city clerk he found the record of the birth of a daughter to Philip and Marion Willis had  been tampered with. It had been partially erased and     made to read, a daughter to David and Marion Blake.    A Witness said he was art intimate friend of the family of ; Mr. Willis after the recoviery of his daughter, now present  in court. He had been their family physician. He had no doubt whatever but the respondent was the lawful    [ daughter of the deceased and as such was legally entitled to the legacy that had been left her. The next witness was the city clerk.. He produced the register of marriages, and it was shown that some two years after the alleged marriage of Philip Willis and Marion  A Spencer, that fact was duly recorded, the time of the mar- : riage being set down. The return itself was then produced. It was signed by Rev. Dr. Gannett, and on the back was an indorsement by Edward Fisher setting forth the fact that he had agreed to return it, and meant to have done so, but had mislaid it. , Both these gentlemen were recalled and identified their signatures. Then the register of births was produced, and the fact   MYSELF.         459 of the change in the register as narrated by Dr. Fisher de- monstrated. The words "Philip" and "Willis" had been carefully erased, and "David" and "Blake" written in. An examination of the register of deaths and burials showed another erasure and substitution. "Marion, wife of Philip Willis," had been changed to  Marion, wife of David Blake." In this case the work had been cleanly done, though with the aid of a microscope the original name could be traced. Next I had a portrait brought in, and Mrs. Blake re- called. She testified that it was a portrait of her sister Marion, painted four or five months before her death. I had the portrait placed in the proper light, and then I asked the respondent to stand by the side of it. I had prepared Miss Willis with a costume nearly similar to that repre- sented in the portrait. All over the court-room came the exclamation, "It's her own." Then I proved up the signatures of the Willises, father and son. Thereupon I rested; and it closed the case. Mr. Per- kins asked for an adjournment before going into the arguments, and upon the reassembling of the court, they consented to a verdict for the respondent. Mr. Perkins said that upon consultation with their clients, they had concluded this was the best course to pursue. It was plain from the developments made by the respondent that she was the lawful daughter of Philip Willis, and that her name was Mary Catharine Willis. Mr. Perkins added that it was due to their clients to say that they had entered upon the proceedings honestly, in good faith, and believing the respondent was not the daughter of Mr. Willis, but that she had ingratiated herself into his favor, and that, in com- bination with his " learned young friend," her counsel, she had succeeded in making herself his heir. As for himself, he would say his opinion of the case was altogether changed. He now saw that many circumstances which looked sus- picious before, came about very naturally. All the in- nuendoes he had thrown out, in the opening, against the respondent and his  learned young friend," her counsel, he most cheerfully withdrew. He felt satisfied that his "learned young friend" would do him the justice to say that, under the circumstances, he would have himself come   "O         MYSELF. to about the same conclusion that he (Mr. Perkins) had. t He wished, before closing, if his " learned young friend" would allow him, to compliment him upon the ability he r had displayed in conducting the case of the respondent, and to utter the hope that the 'little impediment to the stream of their youthful affection had been happily removed, and that they were now sailing out upon the smooth sea of happiness. "No thanks to him!" ejaculated Mr. Lewis, as we pre- pared to leave the court-room. "He would have had   , you both in the penitentiary if he could." The ladies had retired at the close of the evidence, and were gone to Brookline. It had been arranged that An- .. dersota, Nehemiah Stone, and myself were to join them. It was rather late in the season, but Miss Willis did not care to change into the city until after the conclusion of the suit. Anderson was to meet us at my office, and Nehemiah :; Stone accompanied me across the square. Jotham Hop- kins followed. Jotham entered just as I was putting away and locking up my papers. "Say you!" he exclaimed, " that 'ere beat any case I ever heerd tell on. They cal'lated they'd got you where the wool was alfired short." I suspect, Jotham," said I, "that you concurred." "Wall, I did kinder think so. But didn't you wax 'em, though? I tell you! Why, you beat me tryin' a case all holler. I can't hold a candle to you. But I say you,-didn't you kinder fool me, though?" "In what respect?"I asked. "Why, you didn't know where Kate Blake had gone    to!"And Jotham grinned from ear to ear. "So innercent, K when I cal'lated she'd been kivered up in old Blake's sul- ler! And all ther time you knew all 'bout it. You did that 'ere well, by gum!"                "I beg your pardon, Jotham," I said. I was quite as innocent as I appeared. I did not know anything about it." "Oh, go 'long!" cried he, making a motion as if he would punch me in the ribs. "D'you think I'm a derned fool to b'lieve that, and you'd bin livin' here with her the hull time? Git eout with yer derned nonsense!"   MYSELF.          461 Nehemiah Stone, who had struck a match and lighted a cigar, saw that Jotham was annoying me, and he came to the rescue. "You are from their old place, are you, Mr. Hopkins?" inquired Nehemiah. "I'm that!" replied Jotham, pleased at being noticed. "Know the girl well, then,--eh?" "I guess I do, by gum! I used to go to the same singin'- school with her." "Ah! then you sing?" said Nehemiah, blowing a cloud. "I'm leader of the choir at our meetin'-us," said Jotham. "You war never up to our place, war you? Never saw our meetin'-us, and heerd us sing, did you?" "I was at your place once," returned Nehemiah, quietly, casting a twinkling glance on me. "Last year. In June, I think." "Sho! You didn't stop long.?" "Not very long," said Nehemiah. "Business, I s'pose?" inquired Jotham. Nehemiah nodded. "How long did you stay?" "Only about ten minutes," said Nehemiah. "Couldn't stay any longer." "In a hurry, I guess?"Jotham was all interest. "Ye-s; I think I was in somewhat of a hurry," re- marked Nehemiah. "I came out of that town, Mr. Hop- kins, as if I was very anxious to get away. I don't believe I would have stopped ifyou had invited me." Nehemiah Stone was looking very queerly at me, and Jotham saw that somebody was being quizzed. So he remarked,- "I've seen fellers who've been taken that way afore. I guess the sheriff must have bin arter you." Nehemiah burst into a laugh. Jotham found we were preparing to leave, and so he said he had just called in to see if I wanted to send any word up to my "marm. " "Oh, yes," said I.  "Pardon me for forgetting her. Say to her I am well, and shall visit her within a few days. ' "Goin' to bring her, too?" inquired Jotham in a low voice, not intended for the ear of Nehemiah Stone. "Do 39*   "2      \   MYSELF. now. And take old Mrs. Blake, too. Jest let me know when you're comin', and if we don't have the beatemest  time agoin' you may shoot me, by gum!" I promised I would think about it, and Jotham left me. As I entered the drawing-room at Brookline, Mrs. Nehemiah Stone was'the first to greet me. She came up with her eyes all in a twinkle. "Just to think, Mr. Head, that our English-bred girl was only a Yankee, after all,-born and reared in New Hampshire! What will Boston say?           7 "Do you think Boston will forgive it?"I asked. ' What do we care?" she returned, with an expression X of mock disdain. "Not the snap of our finger."     . Although pleased with the result of the trial, Bell Whiting was less demonstrative. Something evidently  r annoyed her, and Mrs. Stone whispered me confidentially that it was the English reputation. "Bell was one of the first to copy it, you know." The sequel showed that, as usual, Mrs. Stone had guessed wide of the mark. During the autumn, Mrs. Blake paid a visit to her old home in New Hampshire.. I went up during her stay, but Miss Willis thought it best to defer her visit. Jotham Hopkins was greatly disappointed, and his "beatemest time" was postponed. CHAPTER   XXXVIII. Which is wholly Retrospective, and clears up much that has been Mys- i terious in the Foregoing Chapters. THERE is little to be told beyond what has already, transpired to make the events of this history plain to the understanding of the reader. When she whom I had known as Kate Blake was trans- ferred to her father, it was not certainly known that the change would be agreeable to her. It was agreed, there-   M YSE F.         463 fore, that she should pass a month with him, and if she did not like the change she was to be returned to her old home. It is needless to say that this was found unneces- sary. There was much about the daughter to remind Mr. Willis of his lost wife, whom he had devotedly loved and whom he continued to mourn. Kate was attached to him on account of his melancholy; and for the reason that, although she was much attached to Mrs. Blake, she never did like Mr. Blake. Only one consideration caused her to hesitate in making her choice. Before the month had expired she had settled that. It was concerning me. She frankly told her father about our attachment, and how her uncle Blake had attempted to thwart us,-that we had separated for eight years, and then we were to come to- gether. She resolutely told him that his action in regard to this would decide her choice of home. If he took the course of her uncle Blake, she would go back to her uncle Blake, for the reason that she had spent her childhood there, and there she could pass the time to intervene before our meeting more tolerably than elsewhere. If, however, he would consent; to the arrangement, she would remain with him. Mr. Willis was not long in deciding. He told her that in eight years' time her mind would change. She insisted that her mind would never change. Then he said mine would.  She told him he didn't know me, or he would not say so. He said I might die. "I know," she re- plied, " and so may I. But if we live?" "He may turn out unworthy," said her father. "He may be a'lrunkard, or dissolute, or a rogue." "No, he'll not," was the reply. "He'll be a man, and, what is more, you'll not be ashamed of him." Mr. Willis mused. "Eight years is a long time." "I know that." "If we only knew where he had gone." "We don't." "Then we'll wait." But she would not wait; and it was only after he had promised he would not oppose our union when I returned, that she consented to remain with him. He put in the   "4         MYSELF. conditions that I should be steady and of good character, which she agreed to, as she said she "would warrant me!" I think Mr, Willis's own experience had much to do with his decision. He had seen what came of parental oppo-- sition to his choice, and he shrank from opposing the choice of his own child. So Kate Blake remained in Boston, and became Mary Catharine Willis. Dr. Fisher was responsible for her English reputation. Aside from, herself and father, the doctor was the only one in Boston who knew her history. She treated him, therefore, more cordially than she did others. He con- ceived quite a fancy for her. She was a blooming girl. Reared, as she had been, in the country, she was the pic- ture of health. The doctor told her she was "plump as a partridge." If she had country ways, it was not to be wondered at. Whenever she made a greater display of these than the doctor thought she ought, he would tell her laughingly that they reared girls in England differently  than they were reared in Boston. She entered into the spirit of the reproof, but told him English girls had some life and system,-they were not bred in green-houses, afraid to go out into the open air for fear of the frost; not afraid of indulging in a hearty laugh through fear of snapping their corset-strings. On this slender foundation was reared the superstructure which made her, in the eyes of her Boston acquaintances, English-bred. Having decided her to be English-bred, and, as Mr. Perkins had well said, in hs opening of the case he had conducted against her, English-brieding be- ing considered very good breeding, many of the Boston young ladies fell to copying the ways of the Yankee girl, and thought they were really commendable. And so far as they related to the care and culture of the physical system, they were commendable. Being of an active temperament, Kate-or, as I shall now call her, Miss Willis-was soon drawn into various local societies and enterprises. Although her education was far from complete, and she was passing almost con- tinually from her music- and dancing-masters to her French and drawing and reading, she found ample time to become   MYSELF.         465 a wide-awake member of a half-dozen associations. One of these was for benevolent purposes. Her father had by this time centeraed all the love re- maining from the tomb of his dead wife in her, and she exercised great influence over him. His purse was at her control. Her Yankee character, however, saved her from extravagance. She was shrewd and calculating. She took care that she was not imposed upon. She early re- solved to help, as a general rule, only those who would try and help themselves. To her belonged the credit of originating the Illinois colony. During a period of busi- ness depression, she had found many families thrown out of employment. She saw that if they were well settled in the country it would be vastly to their advantage. She broached the subject to her father, and it ended in the planting of the colony that I discovered during my visit to the West. While upon her rounds of mercy she encountered me,- the circumstances being already known. At first she was on the point of discovering herself, but a moment's re- flection caused her to slip away with her veil drawn, instructing her servant and attendant, Robert Kirkham, to obtain my address, which he did. She went directly home to her father, and, bursting into the room, she exclaimed, "I've found him!" "Whom?" Him." "Who's him?" he asked. "There is only one 'him,'" she replied. "You know well enough who he is." He made the excited girl sit down and tell him how she had discovered me. He asked her what I was doing and where I was stopping. She didn't know. She had only directed Robert to ascertain, and Robert had not yet re- turned. He patted her cheek, and bid her go to her rest, and the next morning they would deliberate over it. The next morning Mr. Willis had settled on his line of action. He proposed first to have an interview with me. She said Robert Kirkham should go at once for me. He smiled and bid her not be so fast. He wanted to see   "6         MYSELF. me without any suspicion on my part that it was for any other than an ordinary purpose. In short; he wanted to see me as I was. He called the attention of his daughter to the fact that b we had voluntarily separated for eight years,-that so far she had been quietly awaiting the expiration of the period. -Could she not wait a little while now? She thought she could, but she did not see any good reason for it. Perhaps not, he said, but it were not best always to be in a hurry. Many things had been done in a hurry and repented of at leisure. He was quite willing to do for me all that he should find' I deserved. Then he unfolded to her his plan. If I was worthy of his patronage,--she was quite sure of that, she broke in,--then he would take me under his protection. He would, or rather she should, all un- known to me, lead me step by step up the ladder, and when the time came for our meeting, slw was to surprise me with the change in her circumstances and name. It was a romantic plan. All girls like romance. She rather fell - in with the idea. But, then, it was too long to wait. He told her it was not so long as when we started out. Four years of the eight had already passed. Four more would pass in good time. The upshot of the matter was the father triumphed. -He had the matter as -he wanted it. He first took care to keep Robert out of my way. He also took care that Dr. Fisher prevented me from learning the whereabouts of Mrs. Carter, provided I had curiosity enough to inquire. This done, he waited. Every day she went to him to know if he had seen me. He smiled and said, "Not yet, but soon." At last he sent for me. When he went home he said to her,-  "I've seen him.". a Well!" she exclaimed, all interest. She told me she knew what the answer would be. "I rather like him." "I knew you would 1"And she put her arms affection- ately about his neck and kissed him. "And now," she said, " what will you do for him?"  "What shall I do for him?" he asked. " Make him a lawyer!"   MYSELF.          467 "7 He opened wide his eyes. "But a lawyer, my daughter," he said, "requires parts." "He has them," was the reply. "He must have energy and endurance." He has energy and endurance." "He must be stubborn in resolution, untiring in pursuit, and of unflinching perseverance."  "All of that he is. " "And to crown all, he must be a little pugnacious,--a brave but gallant adversary." She put her hand to her temple and brushed back her hair. "Here is evidence of it." And this was how I came to be a lawyer. In consideration of his making a lawyer of me -and the more he thought of it, the more he fell in with the idea, for then he could have me close under his eye- Miss Willis was to keep out of my way,--conceal herself from me, until the period of our meeting, or until such time as she might see me without my recognizing her. Accordingly she took Mrs. Carter and Julia and Robert Kirkham to Illinois, and then spent the winter in Rich- mond. It was here she met the Virginian, who followed her with his attentions until she threw him off with a whirlwind of scorn, the day of my quarrel with her father at Brookline. The next year she went abroad. On her return she went on another visit West. During her absence she made use of all those little arts known only to women to change her appearance and manner. When she returned from Europe she proceeded to test the success of her efforts. She threw herself in my way on the crowded street, having her veil ready to be dropped, and being prepared to vanish, the moment she thought I  recognized her. But I passed her without notice. It pleased and yet saddened her: it pleased her to think she was succeeding in her scheme; it saddened her to think she was to me only as a stranger. One day she stood by me at TickIlor's as I was examining some books, and came so near me that I looked up at her and moved away to give her room. T'hen she showed herself in hler father's carriage by the sidewalk in front of the office, and   "8        .MYSELF. then she ventured into the office itself, spoke to me and inquired for her father; and as she saw she was wholly unrecognized, sat down to wait for him, and only left when she heard him coming up the stairs, to prevent him intro- ducing her. The next time she met me was when I was introduced. The embarrassment noticeable in her, and which Ned Whiting attributed to his own account, proceeded from her introduction to one who, from that time until the period set for our meeting, was to be only a friend and  acquaintance,--a visitor in the family, a student with her father, and nothing more. I need not go on and depict step by step all that fol- lowed. . My illness nearly ruined all her schemes,-for now she had entered heartily into the plot, and came near betraying herself. She dropped in upon me when I was dozing. In my feverish and broken slumber I was speaking of her,-telling her how ill I was, but that I would not die,-that I would live and return to her. When I roused up and saw her, it required all her forti- tude to inquire how I felt. The attending physician had expressed doubts in my case, and when she spoke of it she came near breaking down, and only saved herself by a retreat. Then she had me- taken to her father's resi- dence, and there nursed me as if her own life depended on my recovery. And she nursed me, too, in a manner that led no one, not in the secret, to suspect I was aught to her than her father's student and protege. Thus schooled, she met me as an acquaintance and friend con- fidently,--only that once in awhile she would find her- self unwittingly returning to her old ways, and notice me observing her with an air of wonder and surprise. Then she would check herself; and I attributed it to eccentricity, and wondered at her occasional shyness. As time went on and I grew into her father's good opinion, and he came to look upon me with a feeling akin to pride, her admiration of me was intense. I was in her eye so steady, so upright,-I was such a model in all the virtues and graces of manhood, that no other man could compare with me. She became at last so proud of me that he told her he wished I might commit some in-   M YSEL.          469 "9 discretion just to show her I was mortal. But I would not, she laughed. "Just see!" she exclaimed, "how true he is to his early affection. Here lhe is surrounded by scores of young ladies, high in station, who would be suprerpely happy in entrapping him. But he is indifferent to all their capti- vating wiles, He is indifferent even,"--and here she made a pretty, pouting grimace,-" even to me. Steady and constant in his purpose, swayed neither to the right nor to the left, he goes straight on to the goal. And then so modest, and so unassuming and so good! Not the least elated by his good fortune, he thinks only of his old love, to which he will return as if he had been sepa- rated but a day. And what a surprise shall I give him, papa!"It was the only time she ever applied that title to him.   "Will it not be worth all the self-denial and sacrifice I have made in keeping him from me?" Alas, for the vanity of human expectations! I was destined to demolish all these pleasant castles in the air. One day I came out to her at Brookline and threw her into consternation with a declaration of love! She hardly knew what to do or say. It was only two days to our appointed meeting. Should she take counsel of her heart and yield, and then surprise me with the knowledge that I had only won my old love, after all? Or should she evade the issue and put me off until the denouement should come in the order she had planned it? There was a great struggle, but she decided on the latter course. How well she succeeded, and how cleverly she drew out of me a confession of my early engagement, the reader already knows. But who can paint the horror with which she regarded me when I told her that I hated Kate Blake,-when I was on the point of cursing Kate, and denounced her as a poor unsophisticated country-girl that I would never return to? Verily, my wings were clipped! The model young man had become of earth the earthiest. I had been guilty of more than an indiscretion. I was positively base--meanly base. Here was a girl who, under all cir- cumstances and through all fortunes, had been true to 40   470         MYSELF.   , me; who had taken me by the hand and lifted me from obscurity into notice; had given me opportunity and profession; and now I was abusing her because I thought she was not good enough for me! Such conduct was un- paralleled. She had taken me from my position of depend- ence, and lifted me up until I looked down with scorn   upon the one that had been instrumental in making me.  : It was well for me she fled. It was well for me she took refuge in the house and left me to find my way back to Boston as I might. Once there and alone, she gave vent to her passion. It was the only time in her life she had ever been really angry. She stormed and raged like one mad. "Oh, the villain! The low, base fellow! Abuse me as Kate Blake, does he? Unsophisticated country-girl, am I? Unsophisticated as I am, or as I was, I never- - never was-so-un-feel-ing-as-that!" and the tears burst forth, and she sobbed as if her heart would break. Where now were all the airy castles she had been build ing? Where now the wonderful surprise she had in store for me? Gone-all gone! The man whom she loved was dashed from the high eminence of her admiration, a . loathsome object beneath her feet. Oh, but she could stamp me into the very earth! She could tear out my very vitals! "Loves Miss Willis, does he? Because she is rich-and . flattered-and accomplished-and has fashionable friends -and is admired and toasted! Oh, yes! And the poor  . unsophisticated country-girl, who ought to have hated the wretch, is to be cast off, because, forsooth, she is not good enough for Mr. Kirk White Head! Upon whose bounty has this man fed, that he abuses the hand which lifted him to his position? Oh! oh! oh! it is most in- tolerable!  "Does not love Kate Blake! And I would give more  I for one day as Kate Blake than I would for a score as Miss Willis! Does not love my poor innocent girlish ways! Does not' love one who loved him, and would have laid down her life for him! Oh! I never, never thought this of him! I never-never--never, thought he would be guilty of this-- "And again she broke down and sobbed.   OfMYSELF P 47t At this point her father surprised her. Most tenderly he inquired the cause of her intense grief. She only rocked herself from side to side, and made use of her handkerchief. He asked her if she had met with any loss. Were any of her friends dead? Had her pet fawn been kidnapped? Had some ruthless invader trampled down and destroyed her favorite flowers? Had he been guilty of anything? What was the matter? "Oh, I would I were dead " He was greatly shocked. Why this wish? What great calamity had befallen her? Everything! The world was all a blank to her! Life was a mockery,--mankind a cheat! Step by step he drew from her the cause of her grief. Need I say the father's anger was as great as that of his child?  If she wept, he raved. "The villain!" he cried.  "The dastardly wretch! You'll not meet him?" "I will die first!" "We'll teach the fellow," he exclaimed   "that in abusing Kate Blake he has abused us. If you do not pun- ish him  i" "Punish him!"And she drew herself up to her full height. "If I  do not wring his heart, it shall only be that he has none to wring! Oh, if there be one smoul- dering ember of his old regard for Kate Blake remaining in his bosom, I will fan it into a flame, and all the tortures of Tantalus shall be his!" They set about their plans. Older and better schooled, Mr. Willis unfolded her a scheme which, ere it was half developed, woman as she was, appalled her. She shrank from striking the blow, even as she contemplated it. That night Miss Willis parted from her father the most wretched being in existence. While I was pacing my chamber, cursing woman as the author of all the follies committed by man, she lay burying her head on her couch, lamenting. t"I Iwould not have treated him so, though he had come to me a  very beggar! Gladly would I have toiled for him that he might be happy  ! The meanest cottage in the land would have been acceptable with him and confi- dence! Why, why could he be so cruel?"   A YSELF.  Loving me as she did, she endeavored to invent excuses for my conduct. She went so far as to decide that I was not to blame for loving her as Miss Willis. If I loved her as Kate Blake, certainly she was not less attractive in her other character. Kate Blake was absent, and Miss Willis was present. But that I should abuse the one in paying my addresses to the other ! That was abominable. She never, never, never could forgive that. Never could she look on me as the same man she had believed me pre- viously. Before the next noon she had heartily repented ever having taken her father into her counsels. She had solemnly promised him she would not meet me. He thought he detected indications of wavering, and he strictly forbid any recantation. At length a sudden thought seized her. She went to her father, and renewed her promise not to meet me, and begged him to indulge her with his confidence. She had a plan of her own. No matter what it was,-it was enough for him to know that she would allow me to go to the place of appointment alone. But she did wish to know how it affected me. After much coaxing, he consented to allow her to have her way.  She went straight to Nehemiah Stone. She knew him as the affianced of Lucy Pike. They were soon to be married. Nehemiah Stone was then in Boston. She told him she wanted him, and she bid him, as he opened his eyes at her singular request, to ask no questions, keep his own counsel, and serve her. If he ever befriended one in distress, he would befriend her. Nehemiah Stone put on his hat, and said he was ready to do her bidding. At. her request he called a carriage, and they were driven to the cars. She had already pro- vided a sufficient disguise, and they went on to New Hampshire. Theywere there one train before me. When I stepped from the cars, she pointed me out, and bid him follow me to my home, note my conduct, and report to her. Nehemiah Stone and I had never met. "Who is he ?" he inquired. "Ask me no questions. Leave me and follow him."   M aYSELF.                473 473 Nehemiah Stone shrugged his shoulders, pressed his hat over his brows, buttoned up his coat as if he was to fight me, and pushed on after me. When I ordered a carriage, he ordered one also. They were brought out nearly the same time. As I drove off he followed. He dogged me to my home. I saw him in the churchyard, but thought it was a villager. He never left me until I was housed with James Parkhurst. His report of the scene in the churchyard, my emotion on the finding my home closed to me, my utter heart- broken speech and appearance when I applied at Park- hurst's for information, affected her deeply. All her former indignation was swallowed up in one intense overpowering emotion of mingled pity and love. Debarred by her prom- ise to her father from meeting me, she determined to con- vey a token to me of her existence,-send back to me the scarf that I had given her, as a sign that she had discarded me. Then, when I came back to Boston, she would woo me to her as Miss Willis, and make me happy. The next day she accompanied Nehemiah Stone. They went late to avoid me, but I interrupted them. Then came the flight and the pursuit. They thought they had avoided me, but as they were going up a hill they looked back, and saw my carriage coming down the one behind. Nehemiah Stone had tested the speed and bottom of my horse the night pre- vious. He told her they would'be overtaken. Soon after, they descried my carriage in full pursuit. I was gaining on them rapidly. Miss Willis gathered her skirts about her, and, as they turned an angle in the road, he sud- denly drew up and she leaped out. He drove on, and in a few moments my carriage went by at a furious pace. A quarter of a mile beyond, and Nehemiah Stone drew up. During the colloquy between us, Miss Willis came so near she heard our voices and distinguished our words. She crossed the fence that skirted the road, and, screened by the bushes, passed by and beyond us, leaving us talking. Reaching a point where some bushes extended nearly into the road, and where the road was discernible but a short distance back, she waited. Nehemiah Stone soon came on alone. I remained behind, deliberating what to do.   MYSELF. 474 He nearly passed her without observing her, and would not have seen her at all had not his horse shied. It was but the work of a moment to rein in his animal and take her up.                   I was This done, another difficulty presented itself. I was soon found to be following close after. How was she to escape me at their final stopping-place? Nehemiah was equal to the emergency. He pulled up the boot, as if it were chilly, and concealed-her as well as he could. When he reined up at the hotel, he managed to keep his buggy ahead of mine. He stood at his horse's head, and when the hostler came out, slipped a half-dollar in his hand, and in a low voice told him to be surprised at nothing, to say nothing, but take the carriage away with the person in it. The man simply said, He Your horse will go to the stable  alone. I'll take the other."  It did go to th stable,-but not exactly alone. Miss  Willis guided it! My horse was led away. It was arranged that after Nehemiah had isposed of me, he was to go to her. But he was unable to shake me off. Finding he did not come, Miss Willis made her way  to the railroad station, and sat in the ladies' room until the morning train took her back to Boston. Truly they "fooled me to the top of my bent."  The first thing Nehemiah Stone did the next morning was to ascertain how Miss Willis obtained access to the hotel. Sending a servant to her room, he was surprised to learn she had not occupied it. He made his way to the stable. The hostler onduty during the night had gone home. He hunted up the buggy he had used, anticipating that he might find something in it to direct him. Aslip of paper torn from an old letter, was pinned to the lining, and on it was written, "Returned home. Do not betray, me.) Nehemiah smiled. To betray a woman was no part of his character. The proprietor of the stable seemed communicative. He was a townsman of mine and knew me. It was he who accosted me the evening I went up; and knowing that Nehemiah ordered a carriage at the same time, he naturally spoke of me. Nehemiah drew him out until he   M YSELA          475 got possession of all my history that was known to my townsman. Then putting this and that together, he ex- ercised the privilege of a Yankee and guessed. What he guessed the reader knows, and. knows moreover that Nehe- miah insisted at the time that it was only guessing. That he guessed wrongly was made apparent to him when he reported to Miss Willis and was directed to return my renunciation, and disavow all that he had said to me. Nehemiah did disavow it, but he did more than she in- tended. He overshot the mark, and told me that her sentiments toward me were unchanged. This was true, but she would have had that part unsaid. I may as well state here how I came by my inheritance. After Kate Blake had gone to her father, her uncle paid her a visit. While there he consulted her father in regard to his will in favor of Kate. During the visit she up- braided him with his treatment of me. She told him that what he had opposed, her father had consented to. The poor man knew not what to say. He excused himself on the ground of the commands in Mr. Willis's first letter,- to look to her associations. He protested that he never had any personal objections to me,-that had she remained as his daughter he would most willingly have consented, at the proper time, to our nuptials. He further protested that he would do anything in his power to make me amends. When the matter of making his will was broached, she quickly told him she knew what he could do. She told both him and her father that she 'would be heir to more than she wanted. Her father would leave enough and more than enough for one like her. Let her Uncle Blake make me his heir. The singular request surprised them both; but she insisted. Taking her father aside, she said if I returned to her poor my pride would perhaps revolt at the union. Her Uncle Blake might die. If I came home and found myself heir to his property (she wanted Mrs. Blake provided for), the distance between us might be lessened. And then she enforced her words by saying that it made no difference, as it would all be mine in the end. So I was made the heir of David Blake, the will providing that Mrs. Blake should have a life-support out of his estate.   476         MYSELF. The next time I met Miss Willis was at the party, on Commencement, at Brookline. She had kept aloof from me all day, for the reason that her- father continually watched her. He had allowed the impression to go out that she was partial to the Virginian, and the latter had pursued her until at last he became unbearable, and she told him that further attention would be persecution and resented as such,-that she would sooner be his slave than his wife. Shortly after, we met in the summer-house. Her heart leaped with the thought that now she had it in her power to recall me to her. Although embarrassed, her manner was tender and gracious; and she was ready, so soon as the proper moment arrived, to hint to me that, should I. come to her again, she would not again fly and leave me. I But all this was frustrated by the entrance of her father and the high words that ensued between us. So soon as the company was dismissed she went to him. She told him her mind had changed in regard to me. She told him it was not at all strange that I loved her as Miss Willis. She said it would have been very strange if, as Miss Willis, she had not attracted me equally if not more than as a simple country-girl. She said it was as much her fault as mine that I abused her as Kate Blake. Shle had tantalized me with my old love,-had repelled me and then drawn me on, relented, hesitated, been tender, and half complying, and rendered me desperate. She appealed to him, what man could be sensible in such a contingency? Then she related what I had undergone at my old home. She called his attention to my altered looks and demeanor, -that I appeared as if every friend on earth had departed. Then she told him how she loved me. She recalled to his mind how her mother had died in keeping a secret, and appalled him with the information that the malady had been transmitted to her,-that even then she felt it preying on her, and if he forced her to crush out her love for me it would crush out her life. This constitutional tendency to silent grief had just made itself apparent to her. She had so far struggled against it, but if hope were shut out, she knew not what might follow.   MYSELF, 4" The consequence was, she won him over to consent to her wishes. He even went so far as to rally her on my famx2pas, saying to her that her "perfect man" after all was sadly imperfect. In consenting, however,i he made a proviso that the re- conciliation should not be hurried, but decently and in order. He wrote me a note, and then they went away to Dartmouth and the White Mountains,-he to be returned a mangled corpse, and she a stricken mourner. After her father's death she changed her plans. She would make me her solicitor and legal adviser, and so winning me towards her, after a time would reveal herself. To her utter surprise and chagrin I declined the position. She was exceedingly embarrassed over it. I attributed it to pique, and we parted with a determination on my part to break off intercourse. Finding I had seemingly determined on keeping aloof, for awhile she waited, pining but hoping. Still I did not come. Then she indirectly expressed to Anderson sltr- prise at my absence, and he urged me to visit her with him. I declined. Then she came to me. The letter of Master George Temple, about his college course and sub- sequent profession, was seized upon as her excuse. Every art aside from downright and outright begging me to come to her, was used. But I doggedly resisted. The truth was, I dared not let my heart go out towards her. I was afraid of her influence. This time I was determined to be true to Kate Blake, --at least until I was honorably released; and I  steeled myself against her. She saw it all, but knew nothing of the cause. She returned to her residence much cast down, with a faint glimmering of hope that I might still come. That hope grew fainter and Fainter, and at last she was fast in the clutches of the dis- ase entailed on her by her mother. She was dying, )ut she could not speak. Day by day she saw herself ading out,-sensibly drooping, and yet wholly without he will or the power to arrest it. At last I came. It was delicious to be with me, but hat was all. To save her life she could not reveal herself. and so far as that was concerned, she was without the rill.   478         MYSELF. When she read the letter of Nehemiah Stone, the whole truth flashed upon her. She knew then why I had avoided her. It was like an electric shock. All the lassitude that weighed on hei spirits was gone on the instant. All the stupor that had crept over her went like mist. Then there was a sudden sickening sensation. She reeled, threw out her arms to me, and swooned. When she recovered and found me holding her, and looked into my eyes, she knew that all was understood, and settled down in my arms like a weary child to its rest. CHAPTER XXXIX. How Bell Whiting was afraid of Poor Relations and Country Cousins, and how she was cured of the Malady.  THE climax of my story has been reached, and I must draw it to a close. The revelation concerning the history of Miss Willis in the contest concerning her father's-will, created considerable gossip in Boston, and was productive of a profound sensation in my native town. Her Eng- lish reputation was the source of much amusement, and some indignant comment.  Superficial mammas were heard to utter,-- "Well, I never thought her education was English; it was altogether too vulgar." It was consoling to reflect, however, how eagerly that "vulgarity" had been copied while the foreign reputation lasted. Miss Willis only smiled. She was too well bred -country-bred though she was--to indulge in ill-natured retort or comment. Sensible acquaintances saw nothing in the altered circumstances to justify a change of opinion or a withdrawal of friendship. They rejoiced that a refor- mation had, in some degree, been effected in the educa- tion of their daughters. They accepted the good that had been done, whether of English or of Yankee origin. By the following spring the rumor of two approaching events formed the theme of conversation among gossips.   AMYSEL F. 479 The union of Miss Willis and myself, in the way of which, so many obstacles had been thrown, was abotut to )te c(on- summated; and we were to be accompanied to the altar by Anderson and Bell Whiting, who were to uite thelcir destinies also. These rumors furnished great food for scandal in certain circles. As for Miss Willis, the gossips said her condlu(:t was little to be wondered 'at. It was the legitimate result of her rearing; but for Bell Whiting to take up with a poor vulgar fellow with a score of country cousins, was incomprehensible. Fortunately this poor stuff dil not affect me. Miss Williswas superior to its influences. Not so with Bell Whiting; and a few weeks before the time set for our union, Anderson, with a mournful visage, in- formed me he could not accompany mle to the altair. Some unaccountable freak had led Bell to have their uion postponed. The cause was easily divined by Miss Willis anld my- self; though Bell declined to explain. The sneers about 'country cousins" and "poor relations" had done their work. So there was but one ceremony. It occurred in the season of the apple blossoms. It was a quiet affair, with few friends present; and then we went off to spend our oney-moon among the scenes of our childhood. Mrs. Blake came up after awhile, and as we gathered at the old homestead it seemed nearly like a family reunion. It was unanimously agreed that one person present should take her old name-- Kate. I will not recount all the follies of the newly-married pair; how they tried to live over the scenes of their youth,--rode, walked, practiced at archery, gathered flowers in the woods, refitted the old arbor by the spring, fished for trout in the brooks, and rowed upon Woodhull's pond, and would have gathered lilies there had it not been too early in the season. Such pranks did we play that our staid mothers held up their hands in very aston- ishment. Tell not in Modern Athens, publish not in Boston all the absurd things we were guilty of! Before we returned to the city, a country residence on the hill, in front of the old homestead, was resolved on.    480         MYSELF. Here would we come every season; here would we taste of the quiet joys of country seclusion, and sip at nature's sweetest fount. We wrote to Nehemiah Stone, and he sent an assistant to look over the grounds and sketch the plans.                     . Ben Morrison visited us before we returned,-led back to his native hills as much by an eye to business as by a desire to revisit old friends. I had not failed to interest myself in his behalf for that attorneyship of Willisville. He received it of course, and Willisville profited by the change. Ben's only fault lay in his eagerness to serve his clients at the expense of his opponents; but under his legal management, the interests of that colony did not suffer. Poor Bell Whiting! How she punished herself in her   t dread of marrying a man with country cousins, for the day before our marriage she confessed to Kate the fool she was, and lay with her head upon her friend's bosom  \ and wept at her weakness! Yet she could not be reasoned out of it. She wept, she sighed, confessed she loved Anderson, excused her conduct in speeches that caused her to laugh at their very foolishness, and then cried and laughed and sighed all in one. Anderson, who loved Bell as deeply as his slow, quiet nature would allow, bore the misfortune like a martyr, resenting it not, nor scarcely murmuring. Two individuals cordially agreed that the twain ought to come together, and we set about accomplishing it. I  . have up to this time neglected to state one circumstance, not'necessarily important to my story. When Mr. Blake died, the farm was sold. The purchaser was James Park- hurst, brother-in-law to Charles Anderson. Mrs. Park- hurst was sister of Anderson. The latter had never found time to visit her, and for this reason I never learned their connection until informed by Kate on our wedding-tour when the Parkhursts were spoken of. Seizing upon this fact as a base of operations, after a week or two we sent for Bell Whiting.  She eagerly accepted our invitation, and the next day's train brought her to us. The poor girl was miserable enough, and anxious to escape from herself. She was greatly pleased with the visit. The location was delightful, the scenery   M YSELF.         48 482 sublime; the air was so pure and invigorating; our two mothers so delightfully entertaining and so good! And then the Parkhursts were such pleasant, simple, agreeable neighbors!-Parkhurst was so quaint and funny, and Grandfather Parkhurst so queer and sofussy! Kate ant! I smiled understandingly and hopefully over this enthu- siasm. One clear forenoon we wandered up the hill to explore with our spy-glasses the surrounding scenery, and to con- suit with the architect, This was the moment agreed upon by Kate and me for a combined assault on the prejudices of Bell. Everything bid fair for a successful coup. The country was explored, the architect went away, and we sat down on the grass, under the shade of a spreading tree, to enjoy the agreeable scene. I was to lead the attack.  I, commenced it warily, gradually approaching the subject from a conversation about our intended country residence. I came sharp at it at last. "Did you ever imagine," said I, addressing myself to both, "that modern marriages are much like the pur- chasing of an estate, where the buildings and improvc- ments are more considered'than the land?" Bell saw the application. She wittily replied,- "But the neighborhood? You would not take an estate without considering  the neighborhood as well as the house and the improvements?" '"True; but one should be content with a good neigh- borhood on one side, without asking for it on both. There is an advantage too, perhaps, in having a poor neighborhood,-the  pleasure in assisting in its improve- ment. " "I thank you for the lesson you would set me," replied Bell, with a sigh, yet without any indication of indigna- tion at our interference in so sacred a matter as her heart; "but you forget that lessons are to me like school-lessons to children. I should feel very grateful were they mas- tered, but I dare not undertake the task." Her words afforded encouragement. Her understand- ing was convinced, but her will was weak. "   482        NMYSELF. "You should remember you are no longer a child," said Kate. "As you know those school-lessons were necessary to the child, however disagreeable the labor of mastering them, so your judgment should tell you that if this lesson be necessary to your good-and in this case 'tis the happiness of a life-you should enter upon it at once and bid your disinclination--" "Like Satan, to get behind me,-I see," said Bell. "Exactly so," returned Kate, " for all disinclination to do right is Satan or from him. Consult your judgment, Bell." Bell sat for a moment in thought. Then she looked up, her eyes humid, and with a smile lurking about her mouth, that strangely reminded me of her brother, with a sigh uttered,-- "Thou almost persuadest me to be a Christian, and bear this burden with meekness. If one had no friends to taunt them." "A woman should forsake all for her husband," sug- gested I. "It is easy to say forsake; but you could not drive those friends away with gunpowder. They'd visit me, if only to taunt me with my vulgar marriage. But," added the girl, firing up with the idea., " if they should taunt me, they would find they had thrown a 'coal into some- thing more explosive than gunpowder. There would be an explosion they never dreamed of. Taunt me! I'd like to catch them at it!" The blue veins in her neck swelled with indignation, and she looked the very impersonation of wounded inno- cence and pride. "Come!" laughed Kate, "you are doing excellently well. Anderson will shortly need no better defender than you." "Do you think so?" she sighed, adding a sly humor to it. -"Well, I do love to fight an imaginary battle for him." "You would not like to have some one else step in and fight the real battle for him, reaping the fruits of the vic- tory?" said I. She shook her head. Another sigh.   MYSELF.          483 "Nor would you be content to reject Anderson and marry one whose relatives would not subject you to this mortification, you so dread," added Kate. "Oh, bother your conundrums! No, not unless I loved him better than I do Anderson." "Do you think that you will find the man?" "I'm afraid not." Another sigh. "At any rate, I haven't yet, and the more I look the further I am off." There was humor in 'her reply. "Then I would advise you," said I, "if you cannot find the handsome young fellow just suited to your mind, and would not lose the opportunities you have, to take him who nearest approaches it before it is too late." "Good heavens!" she exclaimed, starting in alarm, "you don't mean that he thinks of marrying another?" "No; but there is such a thing as tempting one's for- bearance too long. Now, if you cannot be so happy with one whose connections fully suit you as you can with Anderson, whose connections you know nothing about, surely your judgment ought to tell you which to choose. " "I see. You tell me plainly to marry the man, not his connections. Confound the fellow!" she exclaimed, "if I only knew who his connections are." Kate gave me a quick glance. "If they were no worse than my two mothers?" she said. "The dear blessed old ladies! I would love him if only for their sakes." Kate's eyes grew humid. Mine caught the contagion. I almost loved the girl myself for the expression. "Or if they were like the Parkhursts?" "Dear good souls, I do like them! And the queer, fussy old grandfather! isn't he a host? I'd take him all over Boston, and show him as a lion to my friends. He fought for his country!" "And that queer, fussy old man," said Kate, laying her hand on Bell's arm,!" is one of Anderson's connections. Mrs. Parkhurst is his sister." Bell screamed. "Oh, heavens! You frighten me! Tell me that again I   484         MYSELF. It isn't so? You are joking with me!" And she con- vulsively clasped her friend about the neck. "Yes, darling; it is true. And now you see what a bughear poor relations are." "But why did you never tell me before, you naughty ones?" she expostulated,- wild with her delight. "Because," said Kate, C you might have conceived the idea that you would not like them. In that case, preju- dice--" "Oh, I shouldn't, I shouldn't, I know I shouldn't!" And then, hesitating a moment, she lifted her head, shook back her curls, and uttered, "Yes, I should! I should have been just the fool you imagined. I should have been looking for holes in the heels of her stockings, and insist- ing that she had them, though I did not see them. I should have been picking flaws in her speech; and those beautiful, nice, white biscuit, and that fresh butter; and that delicious cream she gave us with our strawherries- ugh! I should have looked for hairs and dirt,-I know I should! What a fool I should have made of myself, shouldn't I?" She subsided for a moment, and then looking express- ively at me, said,- "I wonder if there are any rabbits about here?" Why?" "Why, stupid? We might send for somebody, and have another hunt. Anderson visits his sister, doesn't he?" "Unfortunately he has not yet." "What! He afraid of his poor relations, too? I'm ashamed of him 1 Can't you write for him, Mr. Head?" "I have already done so." "You have? Oh, you darling!" she cried. "I'd kiss you for it, if it were not for your wife. Don't be jealous, dear, pray don't," she added to Kate, "for if it was not for you I know I should never dare to even talk of it." "Never mind about it now, Bell; we'll reserve it for your wedding-day," said I, laughing. You shall have it then, I assure you," she replied, gayly, And then, springing to my side, "For fear that I 9'   MYSELF.         485 should forget it-a couple of them-there! take those in advance!"And the chaste girl blushed to her very ears at her presumption. "Now tell me," said she, trying to recover from her confusion, "when he is coming." "To-day." "To-day?" "Even now. We expect him by dinner-time." "And he will dine-- " "With his sister, of course." "No, not with his sister! I'll put a plate beside my own. I know there's room. Come, oblige me to-day. 'We four and no more.' You see I have consented to your wishes; now consent to mine." "With all our hearts, dear Bell," replied Kate. "In that case, Kirk, there's work for all of us. You will have to notify him,-break the news, you know, while I will see to the dinner. We have little time." "And I," exclaimed Bell, "will spread the table. I'll be useful for once. Come, bustle, bustle, bustle! Give me my hat. Oh, you rogue, you have been lying on it!" And the glad girl went beside herself in the exuberance of her joy; smoothing out the hat and crumpling it the more,-blushing all the while, and all the while laughing; and tears the while blinding her eyes. There was another happy heart, when I took Anderson away from his sister, and imparted to him the news. He concealed his feelings as well as he could; for his pride had been stung, and love could not stifle all resentment in a moment. Nevertheless, he was a happy person; silent and happy. Bell awaited him in the old front room. She stepped forward, and, with downcast gaze, extended her hand and uttered the words,- "I have wronged you!" Then her head fell on his shoulder, and she wept. With one hand grasping hers, and the other encircling her waist, Anderson replied,- "No, Bell, you ought not to say that. We ought never to act hastily, and--" "Come away," whispered Kate to me. "We have no "*   486     M'YSELF. 486 business with such a scene. Let it be sacred to them- selves."                 and no The table was spread, but not for Iwe four and no more." Bell had repented, before she spread it, and de- dclared that the absence of the " dear good mothers" would spo And if we could only have Grandfather Parkhurst," she added, " wouldn't it be a picture?" , Shall we send for him?" asked Kate. "No. I will divide the happiness, and dine with him to-morrow. There's a divinity in odd numbers, I know; but we'll take them even to-day, and odd to-morrow, and try both modes. Won't it be pleasant,--old age temper- ing gay youth?" And it was pleasant. No happier dinner-parties than those of the two days ever drew up to smoking board. Since the occurrences just narrated years have passed. During that period events, such as the world never wit- nessed before, occurred within our land. A rebellion, stupendous in its proportions, gigantic in its strength, was launched into being. It struggled long for mastery, but was throttled by the strong loyal arm of the nation, and thrown, bleeding and crushed, back into the abyss from which it came. With one of the New England regiments marched an individual not unknown in this history. He was with McClellan on the Peninsula. He was in the seven days' fight before Richmond. He was with Burnside before Fredericksburg; with Meade at Gettysburg; with Grant in the Wilderness,-passing through all without a scratch. But, in the explosion before Petersburg, he went up. When his senses came to him, he was lying in the hospital with a crushed leg and an empty sleeve. A loved form hung over him and won him back to life. Long and'weary were the hours and days of convales- cence. Months passed before he could be removed to his home, and then he came shattered and maimed. Cheered   MYSELF.          487 by a devoted wife, and blessed with two rosy children, his was, after all, a happy lot. Sitting in his easy-chair, with his leg strapped up, andl his empty sleeve I anging by his side, he wrote, for his own amusement, the foregoing pages. It was to hitn a pastime, -pleasant because he looked back on the days of his youth, when he loved and was loved,--when he resolved to be a man. His story is almost finished. It is now midsummer. Across from Kearsarge comes the fanning breeze. In the house on the hill, he looks out on a vast reach of country, dotted with woodland and farm, village and hamlet, a sil- ver stream threading its tortuous way across the picture. The perfume of flowers is wafted in upon him. The hum of bees comes from the honeysuckle that climbs up by the window. The merry splash of a fountain is heard outside. Everything, save the humming of the bees and the splash- ing of the fountain, and the rustle of the breeze, is still and dreamy. A young girl of eight, with the eyes and ways of her mother, kneels by his side, waiting and watching for him to be done. Suddenly there is an outcry. I seize my crutch, but she anticipates me, and the mother anticipates both. The latter comes dragging into the apartment a three-year-old boy, dripping with wet, and shaking himself like a water- dog. They call him Philip. The little fellow had been fishing for trout in the fountain, and in his eager excite- ment to land his prey, was landed himself- in the water. Fortunately it was hardly deep enough to drown. His mother fished him out, and dragged him in, he in turn dragging his pole, and at the end of his line a speckled prize. "I thought," she said, (" you were to take care of this boy?" "I know, my dear," I replied, "but I was anxious to finish my story, and so--I employed Marion as my sub- stitute. " "And I, dear mamma," said Marion, "was so inter- ested in papa's writing, that, after I baited his hook, I for- got all about him!"   488         MYSELF. "And so both abandoned him to his fate. Fortunately I heard the splash, and saw him go down head foremost. See what a plight he is in!" "Put him in the oven and dry him," said I. She looked at me with that queer expression, half smile and half reproach. "If you were only able to defend yourself!" "I have my crutch. I sha'n't need it long now, except for defense." She gave the limp and saturated boy over to a servant, and came up and put her arm about my neck, and lifted the empty sleeve. '"That is your defense," she said, " and it pardons all your shortcomings. And now, pray, how much longer is this creation of yours to draw away your attention? I am getting jealous." "It draws to a conclusion," I replied. "Pray, what shall I say for you?" "What you probably have not said,--something sen- sible." "Indeed! Then shall I say that as a wife and mother you arc "Blest and content." At this point came quickly in a well-known form. Mrs. Charles Anderson threw down her hat and parasol. She was followed by another, younger but not more blooming,-Mrs. Captain Tileston, nie Julia Carter, from Illinois. Mrs. Tileston was spending her summer in the East. She had been down the hill and across to the Park- hursts for Mrs. Anderson. The two were come to take me out to ride. "Well!" exclaimed the latter. "Mrs. T. said you would have your writing completed by the time of our arrival. The carriage is waiting, and you know you have promised to explore with us all the hidden nooks of these outlandish hills. Finish it when you come back." "No," I said. "I have but two words to write, and here they are: "THE END."    
         
       
   
