
    ----CITATION----
        McKeever, Harriet B. (1807-1886). Silver Threads .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7167
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  In Sight of the Abbey. Page 373. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               Silver Threads. 
             
            
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER.
             
          
          
             
             
               SILVER THREADS. 
             
            BY HARRIET B. M'KEEVER. AUTHOR OF "EDITH'S MINISTRY," "WOODCLIFF," "HEAVENWARD-EARTHWARD," &c. 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER,  
                     Nos. 819 & 821 MARKET STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1868. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
            
               WESTCOTT & THOMSON, STEREOTYPERS, PHILADA.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            SOME years ago the author of this volume read an incident connected with the rescue of a little shipwrecked girl, who seemed to be so signally saved by Providence, that it suggested the ideas of the whole story. The remarkable rescue of the child and the casting of the father upon the same coast were facts-the remainder is all fiction. The wondrous weaving of the threads of the child's destiny turned the eye to some design in the future; and the writer has tried to make the child so singularly preserved a weaver too. 
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. MINUTE GUNS. 7
                
               CHAPTER II. LITTLE DAISY. 25
                
               CHAPTER III. SUNBEAMS ACROSS THE SILL. 40
                
               CHAPTER IV. OAKDALE. 55
                
               CHAPTER V. ETHEL. 67
                
               CHAPTER VI. THE WRECKER. 84
                
               CHAPTER VII. ASTRAY. 106
                
               CHAPTER VIII. CHRISTMAS AT OAKDALE. 119
                
               CHAPTER IX. TWO HELMSMEN. 137
                
                
               CHAPTER X. ANGEL FINGERS AT THE LOOM. 148
                
               CHAPTER XI. A COLD HEARTHSTONE. 170
                
               CHAPTER XII. DISAPPOINTMENTS. 183
                
               CHAPTER XIII. JOY FOR ETHEL. 197
                
               CHAPTER XIV. REVOLUTIONS AT THE PARK. 214
                
               CHAPTER XV. NEW TENANTS AT THE LODGE. 228
                
               CHAPTER XVI. WAITING AND TRUSTING. 249
                
               CHAPTER XVII. ISABEL'S DBUT. 268
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. THREADS AND THRUMS. 285
                
               CHAPTER XIX. FOUND AT LAST. 312
                
               CHAPTER XX. THE SHUTTLES MOVE SWIFTLY. 338
                
               CHAPTER XXI. WEAVING STILL. 363
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Silver threads 
             
            SILVER THREADS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               MINUTE GUNS. 
               IT has been a dark and threatening December day on a bleak, stormy coast. 
               The clouds are heavy, and the wild scream of the sea-birds is heard echoing from cliff to cliff on the rocky shore, as they sometimes dip down among the rocks, disappear for a moment, and then soar away to their nests among these gloomy crags, their white breasts gleaming in strong contrast with the dark and ominous sky. The fishermen's wives are seen traversing the beach, placing their hands over the eye and looking out anxiously for the frail craft which contain their husbands, for they have learned the signs of approaching storms. 
               Some few fishermen are seen pointing to the murky sky and shaking their heads at the moaning sound of the rising tempest. 
                
               Lower down on the beach are one or two suspicious-looking men in rough seamen's attire. 
               They are looking out anxiously too, but not with dread; eager expectation lurks in the dark threatening eye, for they are wreckers-human vultures scenting their prey. 
               Old Aaron Gilbert, the lighthouse keeper, stands in the door of his house, clad in his tarpaulin hat and coat, and, wrapping them about him, looks out with a face full of forebodings of evil. 
               "We shall have some dark work to-night," said the man, addressing his wife; "such smoky-looking clouds bring terrific gales. God help the poor fellows who are driven upon the coast to-night!" 
               "Shall I get the blankets ready, Aaron?" said his wife. 
               "Yes, Margaret, get all that you can gather, and keep on the large boiler of hot water; we may want them." 
               Taking his cane, he walked up the shore, and, knocking at the doors of several huts, bade the men be ready with their boats. 
               "Ay, ay, sir," said Jack Slocum; "we've been thinkin' about it ourselves, for we shall have awful times if any poor creaturs are driven in to-night;' the wind blows a hurricane now, and right on shore." 
                
               Evening came, and with it the little craft so earnestly watched for by the women. 
               A warmer clasp of the hand and a more tender embrace than usual, told of the deep joy of the anxious wives as the feet of their husbands in safety touched the shore. 
               But the wind was by this time blowing a terrific gale, and as night settled down upon the landscape the darkness was truly terrible; the rain descended in heavy torrents, thunder rolled and lightning flashed fearfully. 
               The wind howled, and screamed, and whistled, and the wild waves boiled and foamed, as though lashed by the storm-king of the sea. Old Aaron watched the lantern in the tower with more than usual care, for well he knew what that beacon-light had done for the storm-tossed mariner on just such gloomy nights as this. 
               Taking his trusty dog Lion with him, he mounted the stone stairs of the tower and took his place by the lantern, that he might keep it bright and clear, and protect it from the beating of the storm which had often shattered the glass. 
               Margaret watched below, for in such storms the anxious fears of the dwellers on the coast banished sleep from their eyes. 
               But through it all happy childhood slumbered. Blessed sleep! So thought the mothers as they looked upon their children sleeping so quietly on their little cote in the midst of such a hurricane. 
               The hours rolled on, and Margaret sat below, recalling the wrecks which she had witnessed oh this rock-bound coast, and listening with a beating heart to the howling of the storm. Looking out at the door, she thought that she espied a light standing out from the coast. It was certainly approaching, and she called out to her husband, 
               "Is there riot a sail in sight, Aaron?" 
               "Yes, wife; there is a poor vessel off the coast, struggling for life; the lightning shows her every now and then pitching and tossing about like an eggshell on, the angry sea; I'm afeard she can't weather it much longer. When I look at a vessel in a storm, I feel almost as much for the poor thing as if she were human." 
               From this moment, Margaret would frequently open the door to look out. 
               The howling of the tempest was fearful, as the struggling, heaving vessel was disclosed to her view by the vivid lightning-each glimpse nearer and nearer, for she was inevitably f driving on to the shore. 
               The terrible rocks which had wrecked so many noble vessels on this dangerous coast, loomed up before her like so many messengers of death and destruction. 
               It is now midnight. But hark! there are minute guns sounding over the boiling waves. She places her hand close to her ears, for she is sure that she Hears the cry of human agony in the midst of the storm. 
               Boom! boom! boom! comes slowly from the doomed ship-louder still whistles the shrieking tempest. 
               Margaret clasps her hands in anguish, for there is a woman's voice in the midst of' the roaring storm: the vessel must be very near the rocks. 
               "Come down, Aaron, quick! quick! called the distracted woman; "there are cries on board, and one is a woman's voice." 
               Boom! boom! boom! 
               "I'm coming, wife-I heard it all: the ship is driving, she is very near; and I had one glimpse if a woman's form in the gleam of the lightning. God help them, Margaret; I am afeard that man can do but little." 
               But hurrying to the beach, Aaron was joined by several fishermen with their boats, the women, too, running wildly along the shore, for the calls of "Help! help!" sounded dismally from the drowning crew. 
               The lanterns enabled them to see each other, but only by the lightning could anything be seen of the pitching ship. 
               Boom! boom! boom! 
               "Who will go?" said the noble-hearted man, as he stood by the life-boat, looking "found upon the scene. 
               All knew that it was a fearful venture; but two offered, and the life-boat, with Aaron Gilbert and the two men, started on its perilous voyage. 
               "God help us," said Aaron, "but we must go." 
               They were soon lost sight of, and the cries on board became still more agonizing. 
               Boom! boom! boom! 
               Minutes passed on, but they seemed like hours to the watchers on the shore. 
               A rushing sound was heard-the spectators knew well what that meant; a groan from those on the beach and one agonized cry from the ship! told the fearful tale that the vessel had struck. 
               No tidings of the life-boat: it was struggling bravely amid the surging billows, but all in vain; it was impossible to reach the wreck, and after an hour's dreadful suspense, the frail boat landed its crew safely upon the beach. 
               Silence reigned around the rocks; the booming of the minute guns had ceased, for the work of death was complete. 
                
               No noise was heard save the dashing of the ship against the rocks, sounding like a death-knell for the lost. 
               But on board that sinking vessel had been one of the Saviour's own disciples; and, ready to do his bidding, angels had hovered even there-one to bear away the spirit of a mother to her heavenly home, and another to carry safely to the shore, lashed to the bosom of a dead woman, a sweet child of four years, the only one saved in that terrible night. 
               "What is this?" said Aaron Gilbert, as by the light of his lantern he discerned a figure in white garments lying upon the beach. 
               "It is a woman," said Jack Slocum; "and look here, Aaron! there is a child lashed to her bosom." 
               "Is she alive, Jack?" inquired his companion. 
               "No, Aaron; the woman is dead, but the child is moaning, I am certain." 
               "Let us hurry them into the house," said Aaron, and assisted by Jack Slocum, they bore the burden to the lighthouse. 
               "Here is a sad sight, Margaret," said her husband, as he laid the woman down upon a settee. 
               The little girl was soon detached from the body, and, apparently senseless, was laid upon Margaret's bosom, throbbing already with tender sympathy for the helpless orphan. 
                
               "Is she quite dead?" said the woman, as she bent over the pale figure stretched out before her. 
               Gilbert laid his hand upon the heart, but no pulsation was there, and placed a small mirror before her mouth, but no breath was there. 
               "She is quite gone, Margaret, and this little waif is cast upon our. hearthstone." 
               It was the remains of a once beautiful woman, quite young, and clad in fine garments expensively trimmed. 
               A profusion of heavy brown hair lay around her, and a smile of sweet repose rested upon her pale lips. 
               She wore a locket fastened to a gold chain around her neck, on one side of which was a miniature of a man in the prime of life; on the other, a lock of glossy black hair. A ring upon the finger contained the inscription of "From R. A. to E. C," and the mark upon the clothing was the initials of E. C. A., and this was all that could be known of the lovely lady that had been cast ashore upon this dreary coast. 
               The sweet lamb that lay in Margaret's arms so pale and cold was evidently stunned by terror, for she remained perfectly silent, with eyelids closed and little heart yet beating violently. 
               Margaret rubbed the limbs with hot liquor, dressed the child in the rude garments that had once belonged to their own departed child, administered warm drinks, and, wrapping her in soft blankets, placed in Margaret's own bed, the little one soon fell asleep. 
               Aaron and his wife stood by the side of the dead, fascinated by the pale loveliness that lay before them. 
               "Some heart will ache for this dreadful loss," said the man, as he looked upon the sweet face; "but what is to be done with the little girl?" 
               Margaret looked up with tears into her husband's face. 
               "It is just fourteen years since we lost Daisy," replied the wife, "and the house has always seemed so lonesome without her: let us keep this little lamb; she will seem like our own child." 
               "She is a poor little waif," said Aaron, "but I haven't the heart to send her to the poor-house; we can't bring her up as her mother would have done, for she must have been a lady; but we can do just the same by her as we would have done by Daisy." 
               "And that I will try to do," said the wife. 
               Removing the remains into another room, the wife prepared some hot drink for her husband, and it seemed like old times when they laid down once more by the side of a sleeping child, the soft breathing was so much like Daisy's. 
                
               Toward morning the little one stirred, and stretching out her arms, called piteously, "Mamma! mamma!" 
               Margaret tried to soothe the poor child, but the continued moaning and crying for her mother the rest of the night, and occasionally she would call for "Betty," which they supposed to be the name of her nurse. 
               By early dawn, Aaron, in company with several of the fishermen, sought the place of the disaster; but the wreckers had been there before them, and the scattered articles dropped along the beach, together with the footprints on the sand, told of their early visit. 
               It was a bright sunny morning that shone upon that scene of ruin; all above was clear and beautiful, all below sad and dreary; the birds seemed just as happy and joyous as though no shattered vessel, no pale faces of the dead, lay around. 
               The wreck lay high upon the rocks, and several bodies had been washed; ashore here and elsewhere along the beach. 
               A miserable-looking child, aged about ten years, sat upon the rocks, her hair blowing wildly, her eyes fixed sadly upon the wreck, and rocking herself to and fro, as though in great sorrow. 
               "What are you doing here, Kathleen?" asked Aaron. "I suppose you're after the plunder, like your father." 
               The child straightened herself up, and with a flash from her dark eyes, replied, 
               "I'm not one of that kind, Aaron, for none of the goods that come from the wrecks ever go upon my back, if I know it." 
               Aaron believed the poor child as he looked at the miserable rags that hung around her. 
               "I knew what was coming, Aaron," continued the girl, "for all last night the banshee was crying, and I knew what I'd find here to-day." 
               "And so did I," answered the man; "but all the, banshee I heard was the groans of the hurricane, Kathleen." 
               "I always hear the banshee when there is a-goin' to be a death, Aaron, and she cried dreadfully last night." 
               "There was a sorrowful loss, Kathleen, for in my house lies the body of a lady swept ashore in the storm, and a poor little waif of about four years tied to her waist." 
               "Shall I see her?" asked the child. 
               "Yes, come along; we must get ready for the funeral this afternoon, and a lonely one it will be, Kathleen." 
               While Aaron was absent, the orphan had been taken out of bed; looking around the strange room, everything seemed to alarm her. 
               "Where is my mamma?" said the child; "I want mamma." 
               "Mamma has gone to heaven," was Margaret's answer. 
               "No, no, she wouldn't go without me; mamma loves little darling." 
               "What is your name, dear?" said the woman, with a pitying voice. 
               "My name is darling; everybody calls me darling." 
               "And what is mamma's name?" 
               "Her name is mamma; papa calls her darling, too; sometimes he calls her 'my love;' mamma has three names." 
               "Don't they sometimes call her Ellen, or Emily, or Elizabeth?" asked Margaret, remembering the initials on her clothing. 
               "No, she is just mamma. Oh, take me to her; won't you, ma'am?" 
               Margaret dressed the dear child in some of Daisy's clothes; then carrying her into the next room, she removed the covering from the face of the dead, illumined by the rays of the morning sun. 
               The little one looked bewildered; she saw it was indeed her mother, but here was that around the sleeper that sadly puzzled the child, for she was for the first time in the presence of the mystery of death. 
               "Mamma! mamma!" called the orphan, "speak to little darling," and she stooped down to kiss the sweet, pale face. 
               "What makes you so cold, mamma? Wake up! wake-up! here is little darling; come, mamma, and get warm by the fire." 
               But no answering kiss came from the pale lips, and the child, looking at Margaret's face, said with a trembling voice, 
               "What is it? What ails my dear mamma?" 
               It was almost too much for Margaret's tender, womanly feelings, but she answered, 
               "There was a dreadful storm last night, and mamma was drowned." 
               "No, she was not, for mamma is here," said the child. 
               "This is only mamma's dead body, dear-her soul has gone away to heaven; and you will go there too when you die, if you are good." 
               "Will mamma never speak to me again?" said the child, with quivering lips. 
               "She cannot speak, dear; she cannot hear, nor see, nor ever move again." 
               The sad face of the orphan child seemed as though she were realizing the idea of loss and separation. 
                
               "We are going to have breakfast now," said the kind woman, as after one more tender kiss she took the little girl away. 
               "I cannot eat my breakfast yet," said the child. 
               "Why not, my dear?" 
               "I have not said my prayers yet, and mamma always taught me to do that first." 
               And the sweet child knelt down by the bed, and, folding her little hands, repeated slowly and reverently the Lord's Prayer, followed by a few simple words: 
               "God bless dear papa, and keep him well; bless dear mamma and make her well; bless me, a little child, and make me good for Jesus' sake," closing her morning devotions with the sweet hymn- 
                      
                        "Gentle Jesus, meek and mild, 
                        Look upon a little child: 
                        Pity my simplicity, 
                        Suffer me to come to thee." 
                     
                  
                
               Margaret's conscience smote her as she listened to the low breathed words, for all her life she had risen from a prayerless bed. Just then the door opened and Aaron returned, bringing in Kathleen O'Flynn. 
               The sight of the wild child frightened the little girl, but Kathleen went up kindly to the orphan and stood looting at her with soft, tearful eyes, for there was a world of tender feeling in the heart of the wrecker's daughter. 
               "Shall I see the lady?" asked the girl; and Aaron led her into the presence of the dead. 
               Kathleen stood looking in solemn stillness upon the lady, and said: 
               "No wonder the banshee cried at the loss of such a sweet lady; but she's at rest, Aaron, for early in the morning I saw some doves flying all round the lighthouse, just as if they knew who was here." 
               Soon after dinner the remains of the drowned lady were consigned to the silent earth. 
               A rude box had been hastily prepared, and, clad in one of Margaret's best night-dresses she was laid out for the grave. 
               Many a tear was shed by the fishermen's wives over the cold remains, for the story of the bereaved orphan had awakened their warmest sympathy. Aaron had selected a spot some distance from the beach, under some water-willows, where the mother was laid silently and reverently to await the morning of the resurrection, her only requiem the dirges of the wild waves. 
               A simple wooden slab, on which were written her initials and the date of the wreck, was all that, marked the humble grave of one who in her own ancestral home would have been committed to the tomb amid the reverential tears of the poor and the deep grief of surviving relatives, in a vault used for many generations by one ancient family. 
               The humble people had all departed, but Kathleen stood by the grave long after all the rest had disappeared, for her warm Irish heart was touched with deepest pity. 
               Aaron returned to the house in a very serious frame of mind, and, seating himself by his wife, he said: 
               "This poor little waif must be our child, Margaret; but what shall we call her, wife?" 
               "Let us call her Daisy," was the reply; "she is a sweet child, and will take the place of the one that we have lost." 
               But she was not a waif cast by chance upon the hearthstone at the lighthouse. Trained from the first dawn of intellect by a pious mother, the earliest tendrils of the young heart all seemed to clasp themselves around heavenly things; and the sweet prattle of the innocent child was full of snatches of simple hymns, little fragments of Bible stories and constant allusions to the name of Jesus; but nothing that could throw any light upon the locality of Daisy's home. 
               She was doubtless a lamb of the Saviour's flock of such it is said, "That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." 
               No waif was little Daisy, but one of the precious ones, whose angel had conducted her in safety through the wild waves to the home and heart of these humble people. 
               How little did they know what that innocent life should be to them I for even now was she unconsciously weaving her silver threads of love and infant trust in Aaron Gilbert's home. 
               Aaron was at home in the evening when she was preparing for bed, and when, dressed in her white night-gown, she knelt down so reverently by the-side of her bed to breathe out her infant prayer, the old man shaded his eyes with his rough hand to hide the moisture that was rising as he listened to Daisy's simple words. 
               She concluded with the words so familiar to us all: 
                      
                        "Now I lay me down to sleep, 
                        I pray the Lord my soul to keep, 
                        If I should die before I wake, 
                        I pray the Lord my soul to take." 
                     
                  
                
               Aaron remembered the same words, taught by his mother in the days of childhood, and they brought with them solemn thoughts of years of worldliness and forgetfulness of God. 
               He could bear to battle with the rough waves and to see the wrecks so often east upon the rocky coast, but this soft prayer from these dewy lips was full of impressive teachings. 
               Daisy was spinning her silver threads and the angels were watching still. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               LITTLE DAISY. 
               THE orphan child still yearned for her mother, and Margaret's ingenuity was taxed to the utmost in endeavoring to soothe the little one. 
               But she was a loving child, and the tenderness of new protectors was winning its way into the trusting heart. 
               "You must call us grandpa and grandma," said Margaret one day, when the child was seated on her lap; "and we shall call you Daisy; we had a little daughter once named Daisy, and we want you to be our daughter now." 
               "That is a pretty name," said the child; "we had some beautiful flowers at home called daisies, and I used to pick them all along the hedge-rows." 
               "What was the name of your home, Daisy?" 
               "I don't know, but it was a long, long way off; papa brought mamma in a large ship, and Betty too." 
               "Where did you stay, Daisy, when you got out of the ship?" 
                
               "With Uncle Arthur, in a very big house." 
               "Who lived in Uncle Arthur's house, Daisy?" 
               "Aunt Sarah, and Cousin Bobby, a great big boy." 
               "How did you get in the other big ship, Daisy?" 
               "Uncle Arthur brought us, grandma." 
               "Did you like to be on the ship, Daisy?" 
               "Oh yes; the sailors were so good; they used to call me little pigeon; wasn't that very funny?" 
               "It was a nice little name, Daisy. I expect they called you that because you were a gentle little girl." 
               "I don't know," said the child, "but I liked Sailor Jack the best of all." 
               "Were you frightened in the storm, Daisy?" 
               The little creature shivered as she murmured, 
               "Oh yes, grandma; I kept close to mamma, and she held me tight; mamma was so good she kept praying all the time." 
               "How did you get into the sea, Daisy?" 
               "Jack tied me fast to mamma, and then he jumped into the sea with us both." 
               "How did he get away, Daisy!" 
               "I don't know, grandma, I can't tell any more; but I s'pose poor Jack was drowned." 
               "Well, Daisy, you are to be my little girl now; there is nobody else to take care of you." 
               "Then if you are to be my grandma, I know mamma would tell me that I must love you and mind all you say; and I am going to try." 
               Margaret folded the sweet lamb to her bosom and pressed a mother's warm kiss on her rosy lips. 
               She was very busy in getting the child's wardrobe ready, for the clothes, in which she had been washed ashore had been carefully put away with her mother's, for Margaret said, 
               "Who knows what may happen? strange things turn round in this world, and maybe they may help Tier some day to find her own people." 
               Daisy was very much interested in the work, and as the calico dresses and checked aprons were taken out one by one and altered for the little girl, she kept looking on with a bewildered look, they were so different from what she had been accustomed to. 
               "Manama used to make me pretty clothes, grandma-such nice little white dresses, all edged with lace; and I used to have such pretty shoes, and everything so very nice." 
               "We are poor, Daisy, and all we can give our little girl are the clothes which our daughter wore." 
               "Yes, grandma," said the child, as she threw her arms around Margaret's neck, "you are very good to little Daisy; and I pray God every day to bless you." 
               Day by day she wound herself around the hearts of these humble people; but the little one pined for the companionship of her own age, and there were but few children on the Neck, for that was the name given to a little strip of land on which the lighthouse stood. 
               Washed by the broad Atlantic, it stretched out for some distance into the sea, and on the point towered this beacon for mariners, with a tiny stone cottage attached which, with three or four fishermen's huts, were the only dwellings near for five miles around-one little hut, however, must be excepted, which stood alone near the cove separating the Neck from the main land. Here dwelt poor Kathleen O'Flynn, the wrecker's daughter, shunned by all the children of the Neck on her father's account. 
               The shores on either side were smooth and sandy; below the Neck, "however, lay the dangerous rocks which had wrecked so many, and had it not been for the bright beacon of the lighthouse, many more would have shared the same terrible fate. 
               The two old people, Aaron and Margaret Gilbert, had lived here for years; their monotonous life broken only by the birth of a daughter, who had cheered their solitude for ten years, and then passed away and left them alone. 
               Every night as their repeater rang out the passing hours, they would take their turns in mounting the steep stone staircase, to watch the lantern and see that it burned steadily. 
               On the beach near the shore of the main land was a bathing-place, where a few families sometimes came in the warm summer months to enjoy a ride and a bath at the same time. 
               A small house was kept there for the bathers, and one of the fishermen's wives had charge of it. 
               Daisy was very much interested in the tower of the lighthouse, and when told that the great lantern had saved many a human life, she learned to regard it almost with childish reverence, and would often beg grandpa to let her pour in the oil to feed the light. 
               The griefs of childhood sit lightly; happy provision that it is so; and by degrees the cheerful spirit of little Daisy accommodated itself to her new relations, and brought sunshine into the hearts of the old people. 
               There were many things around, too, which pleased the child-the grand ocean, with its rolling surf and boundless expanse; the pretty shining pebbles and beautiful shells scattered along the beach were endless sources of amusement; and many a time would she run into the cottage with her little apron filled with her treasures, and face beaming with innocent delight. 
                
               Then there was good old Lion. Daisy and he were great friends, and many a race up and down the beach would the two enjoy, while the fishermen's wives would look on amused with the happy pair; but the most pleasant sport with Lion was to throw sticks in among the white caps, when the old Newfoundland dog would seem to take just as much pleasure in laying them at Daisy's feet, who would clap her hands with joy, and Lion was sufficiently rewarded by the gentle pats of her little hand upon his rough head. 
               Sometimes, when Aaron watched the sport, he would say that old Lion certainly had a language of his own with which he talked to Daisy; for not only did Lion show his joy by wagging his head and striking his tail upon the beach, but very odd noises proceeded from his huge throat, and Daisy often declared that she understood his low growls. 
               Sometimes the old people would see her seated quietly on the beach, with eyes fixed upon the bright sea-gulls as they sailed about in the air, often lighting upon the white caps, and then soaring away with their snowy breasts shining in the sun. 
               "Where do they go to, grandpa?" said Daisy, one day, as she sat watching the birds. "I wonder if they go to heaven." 
               Grandpa smiled at the artless child: 
                
               "No, Daisy, they are just going to their nests, and will soon come back again." 
               "I wonder if that is the way my mamma went to heaven, grandma? I wish that I could see the clouds open," said the child. 
               "What then, Daisy?" 
               "Then I think I'd see my mother, for I know she's there, grandpa." 
               "Do you want to go, Daisy?" 
               "Yes, grandpa; I want to be with my dear mamma." 
               "And leave grandpa, Daisy, all alone again? for you know, pet, that I lost one little Daisy." 
               The child looked very serious as she replied: 
               "Get ready to go too, grandpa; then, we'll all be together in the happy land." 
               Aaron Gilbert was very quiet, but he thought much, for he knew that he was not getting ready for the beautiful land. Sweet child! weaving so artlessly her silver threads of love around the old man's heart, while her little hands were busy with the pretty seaweed which she had gathered, laying it out carefully between the leaves of a little book. 
               "See, grandpa!" said the child, "God's pretty little flowers, so little and so sweet-flowers in the sea, aren't they, grandpa?" 
                
               Several years rolled on, and Daisy was each day becoming more dear to the old couple; but they always dreaded a storm, the child was so agitated, and would run and hide herself in the little bed, stopping her ears and covering up her head until it abated. 
               "I can't help it, grandpa; I always seem to hear the big guns, and dear mamma's voice in the storm, and the poor sailors too." 
               The remembrance of that terrible night was very slow in fading, and would probably remain a painful subject all the days of Daisy's life. 
               There were many things which she loved to do for grandma, for she was an active child, and whatever her busy fingers were able to perform, her willing heart was ready to prompt. 
               In the afternoon she would sit out in the sunshine with the fishermen's wives, helping them to mend their nets and untangle the lines with her little fingers, while with large, wondering eyes she would listen to the tales of shipwrecks, and their marvelous fictions of superstition that they were never tired of telling or Daisy of hearing. 
               She was a popular little sea-nymph among the fishermen and their children-such a bright happy child, always so obliging, so ready to do, kind acts for either women or children. 
               Although clad in very homely attire, it could be seen at a glance that Daisy belonged to a different World from the rough inhabitants of the huts, and yet the child never seemed too proud to play with the other children. 
               Living so much in the open air, she was remarkably healthy; and many long rambles did she take along the beach, but never without old Lion for her guide; for Margaret always felt contented if she knew that he was with the child. 
               Daisy had never entirely forgotten the sweet hymns of her early infancy, and having a very musical voice, she used to sit sometimes for hours dabbling her little feet in the surf and singing in sweet tones those pretty hymns. 
               One day she was on a visit to Patty Slocum, and the child was displaying her store of childish treasures. 
               "Look here, Daisy," said the girl, "father was away last week to buy some new twine, and he bought me this beautiful picture-book;" and Patty brought down from a shelf a square book full of shining cuts. 
               "Oh, Patty I know that," said the child; "that is the picture of Jesus in the manger; that's a Christmas picture." 
               "Tell me all about it," said the little girl; "who was Jesus?" 
                
               "Don't you know, Patty? He was the baby God sent to take away our sins." 
               "How could a baby do that?" said the child. 
               "He wasn't always a baby, Patty; he was a big man after that, and mamma said he was our Saviour." 
               "Here's another picture!" said Patty. 
               "I know that too; that is Jesus on the cross-dear, good Lord Jesus." 
               "What was that for, Daisy?" said the girl; "didn't you say he was good?" 
               "Yes, Patty, but he let 'em do it, to make a way for us to heaven." 
               "How was that, Daisy?" 
               "I don't know, Patty, but mamma said so, and when we are big girls, I guess we'll know; but I pray to him every night, Patty; don't you?" 
               "No, Daisy; I don't, know nothin' about Jesus." 
               "I wish that we could learn something, Patty, don't you? I am six years old, and I don't know anything but just what mamma told me; I haven't forgotten her pretty hymns." 
               "Father brought me another book with great big letters;" and Patty brought out a pictured alphabet. 
               Daisy's bright eyes glistened: 
               "If you'll bring your book over every day, grandma will teach us, I know, and" when we learn our letters, then we can learn how to spell, and then we'll learn how to read, and we'll know something then, Patty." 
               "I'll come," said the child, pleased with the thought. 
               When Daisy went home, perching herself upon Margaret's lap, the little thing put up her pretty lips for a kiss. 
               "Now, grandma, I want you to do something," said Daisy. 
               "Well, what is it, dear!" said the old woman with a smile, for it was but seldom that she refused any of her simple requests. 
               "Why, grandma, didn't you say the other day that you thought I must be six years old." 
               "Yes, Daisy, I am pretty sure that you are that old, if not more." 
               "Well, don't you think that I ought to be learning something, grandma?" 
               "What does my little woman want to learn?" 
               "I want to learn my letters. Patty Slocum's father has bought her a beautiful large book full of painted letters, and she says that she'll come over every day and learn with me: won't you teach us, grandma?" 
               "If I have the time," said Margaret. 
               "It won't take much time; we'll just ask for a half hour every day." 
               "Well, bring over your little scholar and we'll see what can be done; but you'll soon get tired, I am afraid." 
               Daisy lost no time, and next day Patty brought over her pretty book, and the children took their first lesson. 
               "Daisy's as bright as a diamond," said Margaret to her husband; "I gave her a lesson to-day in the alphabet, and the little witch knows ten letters already." 
               The lessons progressed rapidly. Daisy mastered the alphabet long before her companion, and was spelling little words before Patty had really learned twelve letters. 
               But there was one thing which Daisy longed to do, for the lantern with its bright rays of warning was still the great centre of attraction to the little girl. 
               "Just let me try once, grandpa," said the child; "I can soon learn, I'm sure," and the old man, willing, to indulge his pet, let her follow him up the steep iron ladder, and slowly taught her the secret of cleaning and trimming the lamp. 
               "You shall trim it next time," said Aaron, and Daisy watched him closely when he paid his next visit to the tower. 
               Aaron stood by the busy, eager little girl as she performed her task so carefully and so well. 
                
               "There, grandpa! it's all right, aint it?" 
               "Yes, Daisy, just as well done as if I had done it all myself." 
               The night that followed was cloudless, but the excited child lay awake most of the night, for fear that she might have done something wrong and that shipwrecks might follow. 
               Daisy had one devoted friend among the children on the Neck, and that was Kathleen O'Flynn, who had never lost her interest in the motherless child. 
               Kathleen's father was a noted wrecker; she had no mother, and there in that desolate hut she lived alone with her only parent, in a most forlorn and comfortless state. 
               She was afraid to come in sight of the fishermen's huts, for the children were all at war with the poor thing, and always saluted her with some abusive name. But sometimes, after the evening had veiled the landscape, she would steal quietly along to Aaron's cottage, and knocking at the door would ask for Daisy. 
               Sometimes with a few pretty shells, at others with some pebbles, and frequently with some rare specimens of beautiful sea-weed, she would present herself at the door. 
               "Come in, Kathleen," the little girl would say;" I am very glad to see you; I have some news to tell you, Kathie." 
               And the wrecker's daughter would look with admiring eyes upon Daisy's bright and sparkling face. 
               "I am learning to spell, Kathie," said the child, with a very important look. "I shall soon know how to read, and then I'll get all the pretty books, and what a nice time I shall have!" 
               But at the same time little Daisy's face fell as she began to wonder where all the books were to come from. 
               "I am more than twelve years old," said Kathleen, "and I can't read a word yet, I suppose I am never to learn, for there's no school about here, and father don't kere." 
               Daisy brightened: 
               "I'll teach you, Kathleen; come here every evening, and I'll teach you just as fast as I learn." 
               "I'll come, for sartain," was the quick answer, as the big tears stood in the girl's dark eyes; "somebody cares for Kathleen." 
               "Poor Kathie!" said little Daisy; "haven't you got a mother to care for you?" 
               "No; my mother died when I was a little child, and I've no one but father, and he don't kere much." 
                
               "You're like me, Kathie," said the child. "Oh no, not like me, for I have two to love me-dear good grandpa and precious grandma; no, Kathie, you're not like Daisy." 
               "You make me so happy, Daisy, I'll be sure to come; and I'll try to larn; but it's gittin' late, I must be off; good-night little Daisy." 
               Kathleen was true to her word; and every evening she might be seen by Daisy's side, learning her simple lessons, and her young teacher was much delighted with her progress. 
               Daisy still remembered her pretty hymns, and the old people were often touched by the sweet melody that thrilled from the young voices in their humble cottage. 
               Bright silver threads was Daisy still weaving in that lowly home and in the wrecker's dreary hut. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               SUNBEAMS ACROSS THE SILL. 
               DAISY is in the midst of the mysteries of spelling; grandma gives her the clue to the labyrinth; the little one is groping her way through her perplexities, and many a time is Margaret puzzled by the child's questions. 
               Kathleen is reaping the benefit also; and Hannah Slocum and Rebecca Wynn wonder what Daisy sees in the wretched-looking child to excite so much interest-she sees poverty and loneliness, and that is enough for Daisy Gilbert. 
               It is summer now, and Daisy sometimes takes her book down to Kathleen's cottage (for grandpa has brought her a book also), and they have discovered a novel place for their studies. 
               There are two low willows not far from the wrecker's hut, stunted to be sure in growth, but easily bent, so as to form an arch, under which the children sit. 
               "Look here, Daisy!" said the girl; "wouldn't this be a nice place for a fairy bower? I'll bring some pretty shells and smooth pebbles; and far up the beach I found some moss the other day on some rocks, and that shall be our carpet." 
               "Where did you ever hear about the fairies, Kathleen?" 
               "My father talks about them sometimes; he says that they used to dance among the thistles in the field back of his father's hut in Ireland." 
               "Did you ever see one, Kathleen?" asked the child. 
               "I can't say that I ever did, exactly; only once." 
               "When was that, Kathleen?" 
               "One moonlight night I was standing down on the shore, and the waves were covered with little sparkling creatures dancing about, for all the world like so many fire-flies. I thought they were fairies, Daisy." 
               "How large are they, Kathleen?" 
               "Some of them so small that they can hide under a thistle." 
               Daisy laughed outright: 
               "Do you believe that, Kathleen?" 
               The girl looked puzzled: 
               "I don't know, Daisy. I'd like to see some of these little people." 
               "Well, Kathleen, if we are going to make a bower, we had better go to work." 
                
               And away the two started on their search for ornaments for the pretty playground. 
               After an hour's tramp, they returned laden with shells, pebbles, seaweed and moss, and in a little while had contrived quite a tasty bower, and with sparkling eyes they stood admiring their dainty work. 
               But there was one watching them from the hut close by; it was the wrecker, who was strangely moved at the sight of little Daisy; for he remembered the night of the wreck. 
               There were some secrets connected with his interest in the child, which, perhaps, it would be well not to disclose. 
               Stepping out, he came toward the pair with three bright-colored feathers in his hand. 
               "Here, children! wouldn't you like some finery to make your playground look smart?" 
               Daisy shrank away, and dropping her eyes bashfully, replied, 
               "I had rather not, Mr. O'Flynn;" for the child thought of the character of the man before her, and Kathleen knew that some of the hurricanes on the coast had driven these ashore, as well as other hidden treasures in her father's cabin. 
               The man scowled at the two, and, muttering to himself, returned to the hut. 
               When they had completed their bower, Kathleen and Daisy, seated on the moss side by side, commenced their lesson. 
               It was a pretty sight-the wild, dark-eyed child, clothed in such miserable rags, and Daisy in her sweet childish innocence, bending over the book, every now and then raising her deep hazel eyes to the listener, who attended so reverentially to the little teacher. 
               "Why, Kathleen, you'll soon learn to read, and when my grandpa goes to town again, I'll get him to bring you a book just like mine." 
               The girl's eyes filled with tears, as she replied, 
               "I should never have learned but for you, Daisy." 
               "As soon as you can read well enough, grandpa will bring us both a pretty little Testament, and we'll bring them here to read, Kathleen, and then you'll know all about Jesus." 
               For half an hour longer the 'two continued their studies, and then jumping up, they rambled along the beach, Kathleen going all the way with Daisy, to see her safely at the lighthouse. Side by side the shuttles move so close, though oceans of mist hide the heavenly weavers-some in heaven, some on earth; the weavers are the angels and little Daisy; the former, throwing the shuttles of Providence, the latter, the silver threads of faith and love; and guiding both is the loving Saviour. 
                
               Kathleen returned to her hut, smiling as she passed the Fairy Bower. 
               The furniture in her home was just as rude and homely; the father's face quite as grum and sullen, but there were some silver threads there now. Kathleen did not know how it was, but she opened the door to look out; there were sunbeams for the poor child upon the sill; they had danced there on every sunny day before, but they had never smiled so cheerily on Kathleen O'Flynn. She felt that there was one to love her; there was hope in her dreary lot, and a little child had left behind her two cherubs to sing in Kathleen's cottage-Love and Hope. There was very little in Daisy's life like other children of her age, but she carried about with her such a gushing fountain of love that she was the gayest of the gay. She had but very few thoughts of the God that made her, but she was learning to read the grand volume of nature by which she was surrounded, and there the thoughtful child read many mysterious lessons. 
               The ocean and the sky spoke of power and majesty. She did not know the words, dear lamb! but Daisy felt the sentiment. She did not see many flowers, but the few that Kathleen and she gathered far away from the beach spoke of goodness and love; and so did the birds, for the fishermen's wives could tell how they were cared for, and she knew that it was God who gave the wisdom. 
               Back to her home across the water we trace Daisy's theology, for from her earliest days her first lispings were of God, and heaven, and Jesus. 
               Sweet shadowy visions yet remained of the large bay nursery window, looking out upon one of the loveliest landscapes, when, seated upon mamma's lap, the sweet voice dropped the honey-dew around the lovely infant; the picture often visited her, and Daisy wondered where she had seen it. It was not Daisy then; who was it that sat upon that fond mother's lap? 
               Here was woven the warp of the spiritual life of the dear child, and who can count the mysterious agencies that still spin out the silver threads? 
               The Christian mother slept sweetly beneath the humble willow, without a name to mark the place of burial; but Daisy was yet under the care of the good Shepherd, who had early marked the lamb for one of his own. 
               It is one of the brightest of spring mornings; a fresh breeze ruffles the bosom of the ocean, and the sunbeams are sparkling upon the waves; the birds seem to partake of the general joy, for they are soaring ing and wheeling about, filling the air with the melodies of their music. 
               The fishermen's children are sporting in the water, holding up their dresses and dabbling their bare feet in the surf. Daisy is among them, accompanied by Lion. 
               Suddenly, Patty Slocum dropped her dress, and pointing up the beach, said: 
               "Look there, Daisy! who are there?" 
               Her finger marked two on horseback-one, a lady of about twenty-seven, and the other, a youth of fifteen. 
               The lady was dressed in a black riding-habit, with straw hat and veil; she was a pleasant-looking person, her face beaming with benevolence as she watched the children on the beach. 
               Her companion was a bright-looking boy, his dark gray eye sparkling with intelligence and youthful gayety; mounted on a gray pony, he rode gracefully by the lady's side, and seemed as much pleased as she with the pretty picture. 
               The lady was Emily Rutgers, and the boy her nephew Ernest. The two drew up their horses and stopped a short distance from the shore. 
               Daisy raided her eyes, gave a quick, startled glance, and then joined again the sports in the surf. 
               Dressed in her simple blue chintz, drawn up and exposing her pretty bare feet, her face glowing with excitement, and her long dark curls floating on her shoulders or blown about by the breeze, Miss Emily thought that she had seldom seen anything so lovely as this little girl; her dress was no better than the rude children's by whom she was surrounded, but there was something in her whole manner and aspect different from the children of the rough fishermen. 
               Daisy and Lion were having a fine game of sport, she throwing in sticks, and her favorite bounding in among the breakers to bring them back, and laying them at her feet. 
               Ernest dismounted, and fastening the horses to a tree, Miss Emily advanced to the surf, and approaching Daisy, addressed her: 
               "Come here, my little girl," said the lady. 
               The other children scampered away, but Daisy stood for a moment in bashful reverence, and then said quietly, 
               "Do you want me, ma'am?" 
               "I want to talk with you, my dear; do you belong to any of the fishermen, my child?" 
               "No, ma'am; I live with my grandpa and grandma at the lighthouse." 
               "What is your name, my child?" 
               "Daisy Gilbert, ma'am." 
               "Have you no parents, Daisy?" 
                
               "I have no mamma; she is buried under a willow below the lighthouse; and I don't know anything about my papa." 
               "How came your mamma to be buried there, Daisy?" 
               "She was drowned, ma'am, when I was a little girl four years old; and we were cast ashore here, near the lighthouse." 
               "Don't you know your mamma's name, Daisy?" 
               "She was called darling and my love; I don't know any other name, ma'am." 
               "Do you remember anything that she ever taught you, Daisy?" 
               "Yes, ma'am; I remember some sweet hymns and the little prayers which she used to hear me say morning and evening." 
               "Will you get me a drink, Daisy?" 
               The child dropped a courtesy and replied, 
               "Just come with me, ma'am; I will soon get you a nice drink." 
               Daisy ran on before, and reaching the lighthouse first, hurried in for a drink, and turning round, perceived Miss Emily and Ernest standing in the doorway, deeply interested in the little girl, who, dropping a courtesy, stood before them. 
               The rays of the sun were falling across the sill, and Daisy felt as she looked at the pleasant pair that there were other sunbeams than those which shone down from heaven. 
               With a child's instincts she saw love and gentleness stamped on Miss Emily's face, and something equally pleasant upon Ernest's. 
               "Here is the water, ma'am;" and the child handed two tumblers to the visitors. 
               "Come in, ma'am," said Margaret, who just then advanced from an inner room; "we are plain people, but you are welcome to our cottage." 
               Miss Emily took a seat, and entered into conversation with Margaret; Ernest whispered a word, to which his companion bowed her head; and inviting Daisy out, she obtained permission from grandma and accompanied the boy. 
               "That is a sweet child, Mrs. Gilbert," said the lady. 
               "You may well say that, ma'am; she is the very light of my old eyes." 
               "How long has she been with you?" 
               "Has she told you any of her story?" 
               "Yes, ma'am; she has told me that she is an orphan." 
               "We are all that she has, ma'am; she has been with us three years; I don't know how we could part with her now, for we love her as fondly as if she were our own." 
                
               "It is evident that she belongs to a different class from those around her, Mrs. Gilbert." 
               "Yes, ma'am, I know that; for the clothes that the mother and child wore were of the very finest kind, and richly made; there were several articles of jewelry too, ma'am, which I have carefully kept; for some day, perhaps, they may be needed." 
               "Does she know how to read, Mrs. Gilbert?" 
               "I have been teaching her, and she almost reads in the Testament; she is such a dear, good child; do you know, ma'am, that just as fast as I teach her, she gives the same lesson to Kathleen?" 
               "And who is Kathleen, Mrs. Gilbert?" 
               "The wrecker's daughter, ma'am; nobody notices her but our Daisy; and that is the reason why she picks out Kathleen." 
               "She must be a very unselfish little girl, Mrs. Gilbert?" 
               "She won't let any one abuse Kathleen, and I never saw her right angry until the other day, when one of the girls set the dog upon the poor thing. I tell you, ma'am, Daisy straightened herself up, and you ought to have heard the lecture that she gave the girl." 
               "I think such a child is worth teaching, Mrs. Gilbert. I should like just such a bright little pupil." 
                
               "That's just what I say; she ought to have a good edication, and we can't give it, ma'am." 
               Suppose I send down twice a week for her; I should so like to teach the child." 
               "You are very good, ma'am, but I am afraid it will be too much trouble." 
               "I am willing, if you will let her come." 
               And thus the bargain was concluded between Daisy's friends. 
               We will leave them to talk over other matters, while we follow Daisy and her companion out on the beach. 
               "Did you ever ride on horseback, Daisy?" inquired the boy. 
               "No, I never have had a chance; grandpa has only an old horse that he drives in the cart to town." 
               "I should like you to take a ride on Jenny; would you be afraid?" 
               Daisy raised her eyes and looked at the pretty pony that stood waiting for her young master, whickering with pleasure when she saw him near. 
               "I wouldn't be afraid if you will ride too." 
               Ernest laughed, but lifting the child upon the back of the animal, he mounted behind, with one arm holding her fast and with the other guiding the reins. 
               Off they started, the rude children staring at Daisy, and she delighted with the sport. 
               "Are you afraid, Daisy?" said the boy. 
                
               "Not a bit," was the quick reply. 
               "Then we'll go a little faster." 
               Running off on a quick canter, Daisy laughed as they rode along, with Lion scampering by their side barking with excitement. 
               Turning their faces toward the lighthouse, Miss Emily appeared at the door, and was much amused by the sight of the young equestrians. 
               "Would you be afraid to try yourself, Daisy?" said the boy. 
               "I guess not," replied the child, with rather a shy look upon her face. 
               However, Miss Emily knew that Jenny was safe, and she encouraged the attempt. 
               Safely mounted, Ernest led the pony gently along, teaching Daisy how to guide the reins, and aiding her first efforts. 
               Lion seemed uneasy, but grandma saw how careful Ernest was, and felt no fears. Presently the boy dropped the reins, and" placing them in Daisy's hand, walked close by her side, directing her horsemanship. 
               "Let me go a little faster," said the child, and giving a gentle tap, Jenny trotted off at a somewhat quickened pace. 
               Before Daisy was ready to dismount, she had rode about fifty yards alone, at quite a brisk trot, without any apparent fear. 
                
               "Come here, my little girl; would you like to come up to Oakdale to be taught twice a week?" 
               "Wouldn't I like it, ma'am? Who is going to teach me?" 
               "I, my dear, if grandma can spare you." Daisy opened wide her dark eyes. 
               "That is too good, ma'am; grandma is teaching me how to read and spell, and now I am ready to learn something more; am I going, grandma?" 
               "I believe so, my child." 
               "Who is coming for me, Miss Emily?" 
               "My nephew, Ernest, will bring down the pony-carriage, it is quite large enough for two, and Jenny can be trusted." 
               "What days am I to come, ma'am?" 
               "On Monday and Wednesday, Daisy." 
               "And I'll teach Kathleen all that I learn; she'll be so glad!" 
               "Good-bye, Daisy; remember to be ready at eight o'clock on Monday morning." 
               Daisy watched the two as they rode off, and thought what a bright day it had been! Sunlight on the blue sky, sunbeams dancing upon the ocean, but the brightest were those resting upon the door-sill and left at the lighthouse by Miss Emily and Ernest for little Daisy, for they flooded the happy child long after the sun had sunk beneath the ocean, and dimpled the lovely face as it smiled in the sweet dreams of childhood. 
               Margaret was not so happy, for she feared that the education which Daisy ought to have would open a gulf between her humble guardians and their darling; but she little knew the depth of love which no circumstances could ever quench in the young and guileless heart. 
               Daisy knew nothing of the silent weavers above, or of the silver threads of Providence slowly forming the beautiful tissue of her life on earth; but there was One that knew, One that guided the child of many prayers, and here the silver threads appeared in the teacher guided to the seashore on that sunny day in June. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               OAKDALE. 
               IT was Wednesday now, and Daisy counted the days until Monday. 
               Grandma examined the little girl's wardrobe, to see what she could find suitable to go to Miss Emily's. 
               There was really nothing but the one blue chintz, but she made a neat white apron and blacked her coarse boots; but what was to be done for a hat? 
               There was nothing but the white sun-bonnet. Grandma gave her pet a delicious morning bath, curled her lovely hair, and arrayed in her homely suit, she thought nothing could be more charming than the sweet child who stood sparkling and smiling before her. 
               Daisy was very much excited, and kept running to the door, watching for Ernest. 
               "There, grandma!" said the child; "just look at that dear little carriage." 
               In a few minutes, the boy had stopped at the door: 
                
               "I am glad to see you ready, Daisy; we have five miles to ride, now jump in; Aunt Emily is waiting." 
               "How long will she be gone, Master Ernest?" inquired Margaret, as she saw the child seated in the carriage. 
               "Until evening, I think; it will take us nearly an hour to reach Oakdale, and another for the lessons; then I have mine to recite to a tutor who comes three times a week, so that I cannot bring Daisy home until five o'clock." 
               Margaret's countenance fell. 
               "It will be a lonely day without my little girl;" but kissing her fondly once more, she saw the carriage driven off, and then slowly entered the cottage. 
               "I am so glad that you are coming, Daisy," said the boy, "for I had a little sister once; she died two years ago; and now you can take Mary's place." 
               "I can't leave grandmother, Ernest." 
               "No; we don't expect that, but we can see you very often; I know that you'll love dear Aunt Emily; she is so good; do you remember your mother, Daisy?" 
               "Yes, indeed; my mamma was good, too, and so pretty, Ernest; I expect to see her again when I go home to heaven." 
               "It is a pity that you can't remember her name." 
               "Betty used to call her Mrs. --. I can't say it, Ernest, though it is often in my mind." 
                
               "Do you ever go to church, Daisy?" 
               "Never, in all my life; there is no church near enough, and no minister ever comes down to the lighthouse people; where do you go, Ernest?" 
               "We go to church at N--, Daisy, and the minister often comes to see us." 
               Little Daisy seemed in a state of perfect enjoyment, for their ride was through a pleasant country, and the child loved green fields, fine trees and lovely flowers. 
               "Here we are!" said Ernest, as they stopped before a large, old-fashioned mansion. 
               "This is Oakdale, Daisy," continued the boy. 
               It was a pleasant, rural home, embowered in a grove of fine old oaks; a broad piazza stretched along the front of the house, which was approached by a graveled path, encircling a large grass-plot. 
               Miss Emily was ready to welcome her little pupil; and as the child stepped out on the piazza, the lady was struck by the manners of her young guest; for Daisy in her sun-bonnet, seemed quite as much at home as if she had been accustomed all her life to the refinements around her. 
               There was no bashful awkwardness, but a sweet, gentle modesty, that Miss Emily thought very charming. 
               "Come in, my child," said the lady; and leading her into the family-room, she was soon divested of her rustic head-gear, and in her neat white apron and blue chintz looked fresh as a rosebud. 
               "Had you a pleasant ride, Daisy?" was the first question. 
               "Very, Miss Emily; I seem to remember just such a pony carriage somewhere else, but I don't know where; and when Ernest was calling to Jenny, I remembered that somewhere I used to ride with two ponies, Fairy and Ned." 
               As she talked, the child looked dreamy and puzzled, with her dark hazel eyes looking forward, as though trying to pierce the cloudy past. 
               "Can't you tell where, Daisy?" asked the lady. 
               "No, ma'am; only very far away, and a long, long while ago." 
               "Do you love flowers, Daisy?" inquired Miss Emily. 
               "Yes, indeed, ma'am; we have not many at the lighthouse-just a few in old flower-pots." 
               When walking round the garden at the back of the house, Daisy's delight was unbounded. 
               There were roses of many varieties: the damask, the lovely noisettes, the provence, the large cabbage, the delicate moss and the queen of the prairie; there were pinks and mignonettes and heliotrope, bright verbenas, phlox and sweet forget-me-not. 
                
               "I never saw such crowds of pretty flowers before," said the child. 
               "Would you like to have some for yourself, Daisy?" 
               "Wouldn't I love them, ma'am, just as if they were alive?" 
               "You shall have some; John has several flowers in pots, and he shall give you two rosebushes, Daisy." 
               "Thank you, ma'am; shall I really have two for myself?" 
               "Yes, all for yourself, Daisy; but you must be sure to water them, and give them plenty of sunlight," 
               "That I will, ma'am." 
               Entering the house, the child was ushered into the library and Ernest was summoned to his tutor, who had just arrived. 
               Miss Emily brought out Daisy's books, and was pleased with the aptness of her little pupil; for she was quite a good speller, could almost read, and was delighted with her first drawing lesson. 
               "We shall have spelling, reading and drawing every day, Daisy; and as soon as you can read well, then we shall have a few verses in the Testament, short lessons in natural history, and geography in good time." 
                
               "Will I learn music, ma'am?" said the child, timidly. 
               "I think so, Daisy; do you love to sing?" 
               "Yes, ma'am, very much." 
               Opening the piano, Miss Emily played a little, and Daisy listened delighted. 
               "Will you try to learn a verse?" inquired Miss Emily; and then dictated the following: 
                      
                        There is no name so sweet on earth 
                        No name so sweet in heaven- 
                        The name before his wondrous birth 
                        To Christ the Saviour given. 
                        We love to sing around our King, 
                        And hail him blessed Jesus, 
                        For there's no word ear ever heard 
                        So dear, so sweet as Jesus." 
                     
                  
                
               It was soon learned, and the teacher was charmed with the sweet voice that joined her in singing the pretty hymn. 
               Daisy had a pleasant day; the sweet hermosa and daily rose in full bloom were placed in the carriage, and all the way home the child chatted about Miss Emily and the flowers, Ernest's pet rabbits and her pleasant lessons. 
               Grandma was standing at the door in waiting. 
               "It has been a long, lonesome day, Daisy," said the old woman; "I don't know how I can spare you two days out of every week." 
                
               "Don't say that, grandma, for I do so want to learn, and Miss Emily is such a smart teacher." 
               Ernest took leave, and then the child told grandma about all that she had seen and enjoyed at Oakdale. 
               "But where is grandpa?" said the child. 
               He has gone into town to get some oil and groceries, Daisy; he'll be here soon now." 
               "I hope he'll bring some yarn, grandma, for Mrs. Sloan says she'll teach me how to knit, and then I can knit all your winter stockings." 
               "I told him about the yarn, Daisy, but here he comes." Trotting along the beach, came Aaron in his little wagon. 
               It is quite late sundown when the old man came in. 
               Tea was waiting, and Daisy ran to put away his hat and bring up his chair. 
               "I know you're tired, aren't you, grandpa?" 
               "A little so, for it has been pretty warm, and I had to run about to several places before I got all I wanted." 
               "There are some things I brought home from Oakdale," said Daisy; "Miss Emily gave them to me, but I kept them for grandpa and grandma." Uncovering a small dish, there was quite a nice treat of ripe strawberries. 
                
               "You were a good little thing to think of us, Daisy," said the pleased old man. 
               They all enjoyed their nice supper, and then Aaron opened a small carpet-bag to bring out his purchases. 
               "There is something mother told me to bring," and Daisy was pleased at the sight of a large hank of gray yarn and a set of knitting-needles. 
               "And here is something else for my little girl." 
               "Is that for me, grandpa?" 
               And the child was made doubly happy by the gift of a very nice book, in large print and full of bright pictures. 
               Next morning early, off to Mrs. Sloan's, Daisy was busy as a little bee, learning how to knit. It was rather a tedious business at first, but there was plenty of time, and by the autumn she hoped to learn how to knit stockings. 
               The visits to Oakdale still continued, but grandma was so lonely that Miss Emily proposed to come there on Wednesday, if Daisy could come to her on Monday: that was more satisfactory, for Margaret was very busy on Monday, being wash-day at the lighthouse. 
               The child was progressing rapidly, and Kathleen shared the benefits. 
               Daisy can read now, and so can the wrecker's daughter. 
                
               The child's favorite book is her little Testament, which Miss Emily has given her. 
               Margaret is often touched at the sight of the little girl at her daily reading, for it is Daisy's delight, as soon as she is dressed, to take up her Testament and read her chapter. 
               One evening after tea, we find her on grandpa's lap. 
               "Can you read the Testament, grandpa?" said the child. 
               "I don't think that I could read yours, Daisy; the print is too small." 
               "Shall I read some to you and grandma every day?" 
               "I should like it very much, Daisy." 
               Away ran the little one, and seated between the two, in her own clear, sweet tones, she read her first chapter in the blessed book. 
               Bright silver threads! how fast was she weaving them around the hearthstone of her kind guardians! 
               Shining threads of hope, and faith, and love, and all so unconscious too. 
               Weave your bright tissues, little Daisy; doubtless your angel is watching your holy work. 
               Daisy looks now with a serious face upon the sports of the fishermen's children on the Sabbath days, for there is no difference made here. 
               "Miss Emily says that they all have souls that will never die," thought Daisy; "nobody tells them anything about that other world: I wish somebody would." 
               The thought dwelt upon the child's mind, and at the first opportunity, we find her dropping her gentle hints. 
               "How many are there, Daisy?" inquired Miss Emily, for it was to her that the child told her thoughts. 
               "There are the Slocums, and the Murphys, Martha Quinn, Neddy White, Kathleen O'Flynn, Rosy Gorman and Billy Mahoney." 
               "Do you think that they would come to be taught, Daisy?" 
               "I'll try, if you'll only come, Miss Emily." 
               "Get the children together and I'll come next Sunday; but what shall we do about a room?" 
               "You shall have my sitting-room, Miss Emily," said Margaret. 
               Round and round among the children trotted little Daisy-few could resist the child's coaxing, and on Sunday afternoon she had gathered five beside herself at the lighthouse, and Kathleen O'Flynn was among them; but six were absent. 
               Daisy had taken good care that Kathleen should be civilly received. 
               'I know that you won't treat her badly," said the child to the group when they first heard that Kathleen was coming. "She has no mother, and a very bad father, no brother, no sister, nobody to care for her; I feel so sorry for her, don't you, Patty?" 
               "Yes, sometimes," said the child; "but mother says she's a chip of the old block." 
               "I don't think so," said Daisy; "she wants to be good, and we must help her." 
               "We'll be good to her just to please you, Daisy," said Patty, "but I don't believe in her, for all that." 
               Sunday afternoon came, and Miss Emily met her little seaside flock for the first time. 
               A number of bright pictures, some sweet Bible stories, a very pretty hymn, and a loving, earnest prayer interested the children, and they all promised to come again. 
               When they showed their pictures to the absent ones, each declared an intention to go too, for they did not often see such attractive things. 
               Aaron and Margaret joined the company, and were almost as much interested as the children. 
               It was a novel sight in the lighthouse keeper's cottage-this gathering of the children to hear the truths of the blessed Bible, novel music, those sweet, childish hymns of Jesus and heaven. 
                
               If Miss Emily could peep in after tea and hear little Daisy reading in her own bird-like voice the words of Jesus to the old people, would she not be amply repaid for the results of her ministry in this humble home? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               "ETHEL." 
               IT is now the bathing season; Miss Emily and Ernest are frequently at the shore enjoying the luxury of a bath. 
               They are there on one of the hottest of July days. 
               Daisy's friend has furnished her with a bathing dress, and the child is like a little sea-nymph among the breakers. 
               Ernest is a good swimmer, and he is giving some lessons in the art. 
               A life of three years on the shore in sight of the great ocean has made Daisy very fearless; and Miss Emily has often to check her in her gambols in the surf. Lion, too, is uneasy, and keeps near his little favorite on all these occasions. 
               She has had a delightful bath on this hot summer day; and with her locks dripping, cheeks glowing and eyes sparkling, she hastens to the house to change her dress, for Ernest is waiting for her on the beach; they are going on a ramble while Miss Emily pays some visits to the families of the fishermen. 
                
               "Now we'll go, Ernest," said the child, at the same time taking the boy's hand. 
               Daisy knows the places to find the prettiest seaweed and the nicest shells, and away she trots with her young companion. 
               "Here, Ernest! isn't this beautiful?" and Daisy hands him a bunch of lovely sea-weed. 
               "I wish that you could see this through a microscope," said the boy; "you'll find the dearest little flowers of many lovely colors." 
               "That's what I told grandpa one day, that these were sea-flowers, and the ocean a part of my garden. Look at this shell, Ernest," said the child; and placing it near his ear, she continued, "don't you hear the ocean roar?" 
               Ernest smiled: 
               "Where did you get that fancy, Daisy?" 
               "The fishermen's children told me so." 
               "That is not the noise you hear, Daisy; the shape of the shell gathers in the sound, and produces the noise; but do you know what a shell is, little girl?" 
               "Just a nice plaything; isn't it, Ernest?" 
               "No, indeed; every one is the home of an animal." 
               Daisy's eyes opened wide. 
               "How do you know that, Ernest?" 
               "My book of Natural History tells me that, and a great many other curious things; some of these shells are very beautiful; there is one called the nautilus, that is found in the Mediterranean sea, and is called by some 'the little navigator.'" 
               "Why, Ernest?" 
               "Because its little arms catch the wind as it skims along, and those that hang over the sides it uses like oars." 
               "Isn't that curious, Ernest?" 
               "It is like jelly, and occupies different chambers inside, each year adding a new one; but the prettiest thing about it is, that it has a dear little cradle, lined with the loveliest shells, held up in the arms of the animal and rocked oh the ocean; it has one of the prettiest cradles that can be imagined." 
               "I wish that I knew as much as you do, Ernest; it must be so nice to have so much knowledge." 
               "If you learn to read well, you can get just as much as you please, Daisy; for we have all sorts of books in our library." 
               "Just look at those pretty gulls, Ernest," said the child; "don't they look lovely?" 
               "Yes, Daisy; see how they skim over the top of the waves." 
               "I don't like to hear them scream, Ernest, when a storm is coming; it seems so wild." 
               "Don't you? I rather like the sound." 
                
               They continued their ramble until they came near to the wrecker's hut, and Daisy said, 
               "Here is Kathleen's home, Ernest, I wonder if she is in; stop a minute, while I go in and see." 
               Daisy knocked, but at first no answer; she knocked louder, and then a faint voice said, 
               "Come in." 
               The child entered, and there on her little bed, all alone, lay Kathleen burning with fever. 
               "I am so glad to see you," said the poor girl. 
               "How long have you been sick, Kathleen?" inquired Daisy. 
               "Three days; but to-day I am a great deal worse; father is away, and there is no one to hand me even a drink of water." 
               Daisy ran out for a moment to her companion. 
               "Will you come in, Ernest? Kathleen is very sick, and I don't know what to do for her; what would you like, Kathleen?" 
               "A drink of cool water, Daisy, and a basin near my bed, with a cloth to lay upon my head." 
               The child performed these simple offices as well as she could, and then said to Kathleen, 
               "I'll go right home and tell grandma; she will take care of you, Kathleen; don't fret, we'll soon be back again." 
               Accompanied by Ernest, Daisy hurried to the lighthouse, and her little story soon brought Margaret back with the child to see what could be done for Kathleen. 
               She was very sick, and the kind-hearted woman took the place by the bedside. "Go home and stay with grandpa, Daisy," said Margaret; "I cannot leave Kathleen to-night; she must have some one to give her medicines, and I hope with care will be better in a few days." 
               The sick girl took the kind woman's hand, and with grateful tears, said, "You are very good. I have laid here and cried for somebody to come; father has been away four days, but I think he'll be back by tomorrow." 
               "Is he good to you, Kathleen?" 
               "Sometimes; but when he goes into town, he gets with bad company, and then father is very cross when he comes back." 
               Margaret laid down upon the bed by Kathleen's side, and her kind care brought much improvement by the morning. 
               "Where shall I get some clean underclothes?" said Margaret. 
               "In that little trunk by the side of the bed, you'll find some very old articles." 
               "They're clean, Kathleen, if they are old," was the answer. 
                
               When the cool washing and the quiet changing was finished, and Margaret so gently combed out the matted hair, and then kissing the girl, laid her down upon her pillow, Kathleen said, 
               "What a change that has made, Margaret! I feel so much better." 
               "I'll make you a cup of tea, my child, and then I'll have to go home; but I'll send Daisy down, and she'll sit with you to-day." 
               "Thank you, ma'am," said the girl; "I don't want to be left alone, and Daisy is good company." 
               Margaret had scarcely gone ere the wrecker made his appearance. 
               Kathleen knew at a glance what was the matter. 
               His face was swollen and bloated, his eyes bloodshot, and his breath heavy with the stench of bad liquor. 
               "What are you doing in bed there, you lazy brat?" said the man. 
               "I am sick, father, and not able to hold up my head." 
               "You're only lazy; get up and make me a cup of tea; I'm hungry and thirsty." 
               "Indeed I can't, father; oh! don't make me get up, I shall faint." 
               "Well, we'll see," and the brutal man, seizing the sick girl, dragged her up and seated her on the side of the bed. She soon fell down insensible, and just then, a gentle tap was heard at the door. 
               "Come in," said the rough voice of Barney O'Flynn. 
               The next minute, Daisy stood by the side of the fainting child. 
               "What is the matter? I thought Kathleen was better." 
               "She was trying to get up and tumbled over, that's all." 
               Daisy helped to lift her up, and applying cool water to her face, she revived; seeing the kind look bent in pity over her, she burst into a flood of tears. 
               Clasping both of Daisy's hands, she said, "I am so glad that you have come; he'll be good to me now." 
               There was some strange power exercised, over the rough man by the presence of little Daisy, for he always seemed softened when she was near. 
               Taking his seat, he said, "I didn't know how sick she was, and I asked her to get me some tea, for I'm deuced hungry." 
               "I guess I can do it just as well; grandma has taught me how." 
               Asking directions of Kathleen, the child went about her task, and soon made a good cup of tea, hunted up some bread and cold meat, and the wrecker sat down appeased. 
                
               All day she stayed with Kathleen, talking or reading to her just as she desired, and toward evening Margaret came to take her home. 
               The girl was much better, and as Daisy took leave, she kissed the little hand, and said, 
               "You've done me a heap of good; I hope you'll come soon again, Daisy." 
               "Yes, do, little one," said the wrecker; "we don't have no such visitors as you, come to our little cabin. I think it makes a body better to see such faces." 
               Next day was Miss Emily's morning, and Daisy was made very happy by the gift of a neat little straw hat and two new dresses-one pink, and the other blue gingham. 
               Made after a pretty pattern, Daisy looked really like a little lady, and when, in addition to these, her feet were encased in a pair of neat boots, they all smiled upon the sparkling little girl that stood before them so happy in her innocent gratitude. 
               "Now you can go to church with us, Daisy," said Ernest, "if grandma will let you." 
               "I shall miss her very much," was the reply; "but I can't stand in the way of Daisy's good; but how could you manage?" 
               "It will just be a mile out of our way, and we will start a little earlier." 
               Daisy watched for Sunday morning; it was a lovely day, and very early, dressed in her pink gingham, white apron and straw hat, she waited anxiously for the carriage. 
               The fishermen's children were looking on with vulgar curiosity, wondering how it was that Daisy had got such pleasant friends. 
               A delightful ride brought them to an old-fashioned church, situated on the outskirts of a small town; it had once been considered a country church, but the houses had gathered around it, until the old building might be said to stand in the new town. 
               There was an ancient churchyard attached, and fine old trees shaded it from the heat of the summer sun. 
               Daisy had never been to church, but her reverence for holy things sobered her dancing step as she entered the sacred building. 
               Miss Emily placed a hymn-book in her hand, and taught her how to find the hymns. 
               The minister pleased our little girl, for he had a mild, benevolent face; and Daisy thought that there was something there that looked like her pictures of the blessed Master. 
               Mr. Edmunds loved children, and at the close of the sermon always addressed a few words to the lambs of the flock; moreover, Daisy understood much of the language of the prayers, and the music was pleasing. 
               After church, the pastor came down among the people, and advancing to Miss Emily's pew, laid his hand on Daisy's head. 
               "Whom have we here, Miss Rutgers?" said the good man. 
               "A little scholar of mine" was the reply; "she lives at the lighthouse, and has no opportunity of coming to church unless I bring her." 
               "How did she get there?" was the next question. 
               "A wreck threw her on the beach; she has kind friends there, Mr. Edmunds; and we have a nice class, too, on Sunday afternoons." 
               Daisy's visit had been pleasant, and afforded a fruitful subject all the way home. 
               "He didn't forget us, Miss Emily," said the child. 
               "Whom do you mean, Daisy?" 
               "I mean us little children; it was so good to stop preaching to the grown people, and give us a little sermon; I think that was just like Jesus, for you know, Miss Emily, that he stopped to bless the children when he was here." 
               "Do you remember what the minister said, Daisy?" 
               "Oh yes, ma'am; he said that Jesus was the Good Shepherd, and took care of us just like the earthly shepherds do of their little ones, only that he was a great deal stronger, and loves us a great deal more." 
               "Do you remember any more?" 
               "Yes, ma'am; he said that We must keep close to his side and walk with him every day; and that was the way to get well acquainted with him; I was thinking a great deal in church, Miss Emily." 
               "Can you tell me some of your thoughts, Daisy?" 
               "Why, you know, Miss Emily, everything has a beginning. I was wondering when the church began." 
               "It began many hundred years ago, my child; the first Christians met in an upper room of the synagogue, Daisy; there were about one hundred and twenty there; they were very holy men, and worshiped God in spirit and in truth." 
               Did they sing the same hymns, Miss Emily, that we do?" 
               "I think not, Daisy; but their worship was very simple and heavenly, their preaching very powerful; they used to go about from house to house, singing hymns and praying with the people; they loved each other truly then, Daisy, and all of them had but one purse." 
               "That was very good, Miss Emily; are the churches now just like that?" 
               Miss Emily smiled at the innocence of the little one, whose childish days had all been passed on the sea-shore, and had never seen a house of God until now. 
               She answered, 
               "I am sorry to say that they are not, Daisy; man has spoiled a great deal that the apostles commenced; but all over the Christian world the Saviour has his Church, made up of those whose hearts have been renewed by the Spirit of God, and who trust simply in his Son; the different places where these Christians live, and the different minds that people have, make them use different ways of worshiping God; but among them all, our Saviour has his true followers." 
               "I am glad that I can go to church, Miss Emily; it seemed so sweet to worship God together; you know that is the way that they praise God in heaven." 
               Daisy had a great deal to say at home about the church and the minister, and the old people listened to her artless prattle with admiring interest. 
               "Won't you go sometimes, grandma?" said the child; "you can drive the wagon, and old Bob can take us to church as well as to market or to the store." 
               "The people would laugh at our crazy old wagon, Daisy, and I don't believe that you would like to ride in it to church after going in Miss Emily's pretty carriage." 
                
               "Now, grandma, you don't really think that I would be ashamed to go to the house of God with you in any kind of a wagon?" 
               "My clothes are not fit, Daisy; I haven't had a new bonnet for five years, and Aaron can't get me one just now." 
               "Never mind your bonnet, grandma; it is old-fashioned I know, but it is a decent bonnet; God doesn't look at our clothes, you know." 
               "I haven't time, Daisy; somebody must get grandpa's dinner." 
               "Can't you cook something on Saturday? we can have a cup of good tea when we come home; grandpa likes that always." 
               "Why are you so anxious for me to go to church, Daisy? Can't I be a good woman without?" 
               "No, grandma, if God commands it." 
               "Does he say that we must go to church in the good book, Daisy?" 
               "Yes, grandma; Miss Emily told me that the Bible says we must 'remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy,' and one way is to mind that God says we 'must not forsake the assembling of ourselves together;' then the Saviour used to worship in the temple; all the apostles used to keep the holy day, and all good Christians ever since love to worship God together." 
                
               "I will think about it, Daisy; but it has been so long since I have been at church, I shall hardly know how to behave myself." 
               Little Daisy took great delight in her Bible lessons, and on her return from Oakdale always had something to tell of the teachings of the morning. 
               Many a silver thread was thus woven in the invisible tissues of the spiritual life of the lighthouse keeper and his good wife. 
               Grandpa Gilbert is very sick; he has been confined to his bed for ten days with pleurisy, and Daisy is a very anxious watcher by the bedside. 
               One night Aaron was lying awake when he heard the pattering of little bare feet over the floor, and raising his head, saw the little figure moving silently about in the moonlight; she is silent now, and the sick man is watching Daisy as she kneels by the window in her white night-gown, her eyes upturned to heaven, hands clasped, and the moonlight streaming in upon her fair young face. 
               Low sounds of earnest prayer are murmuring from her lips; the voice becomes louder, and Aaron hears the artless words of childish prayer: 
               "Look down, dear Saviour, upon my grandpa: he is very sick. I know that thou didst cure the leper and the man sick with the palsy; wilt thou not hear a little girl's prayer for her dear old grandpa? Teach him to come to Jesus, help him to be sorry for his sins, and make him a real Christian man. Amen." 
               Aaron listened to the end, and then called out, "What are you doing, Daisy?" 
               "Praying, grandpa; I was in trouble, and I knew that I might come and tell Jesus; Miss Emily read that to me the other day." 
               "What is your trouble, Daisy?" 
               "You are sick, grandpa, and I am not sure that you believe in our dear Saviour." 
               "What then, Daisy?" 
               "If you should not get well, grandpa, you could never go to heaven, unless you truly love the Lord Jesus." 
               "How do you know that, Daisy?" 
               "The Bible says, 'I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no man cometh unto the Father but by me.'" 
               "How do you know that I don't believe in Jesus?" 
               "Because I never see you pray to him, I never see you read the Bible, you do not go to God's house, grandpa; and that is the way that Christians show that they love God; Miss Emily told me that." 
               "And you want to see me a Christian, Daisy; is that so, my little girl?" 
               "Yes, dear grandpa; I want to live in heaven always with you and grandma." 
                
               "You are a good little girl, Daisy, but go to bed now; you will get cold running about with nothing but your night-gown; come, kiss me, pet." 
               The child pressed a loving kiss upon the old man's cheek and sought her little couch, leaving her precious words with Aaron Gilbert for his waking thoughts far into the silent night. In another week Aaron is moving about, and Daisy is perched upon his knee, a happy little girl. 
               "You see, grandpa, that God heard my prayers and made you well; I knew that he would, because L asked him for Jesus' sake." 
               "Very likely, Daisy; I don't believe that he could ever turn away from you." 
               Daisy still enjoys the sea-bathing, and one day Miss Emily was down with a party from Oakdale composed of several ladies and gentlemen. 
               The child was sporting among the breakers, when suddenly she stopped with a startled look, for a name was called by one of the gentlemen stirring up the memories of the long-closed chambers of recollection. 
               "Ethel! Ethel!" was called again; and Daisy clasped her hands as if startled from a deep slumber. 
               "What is the matter, Daisy?" asked Miss Emily, struck by the child's looks. 
               "That is mamma's name; I remember it now." 
                
               "Strange that you should have forgotten it so long, Daisy!" 
               "It was in my mind, Miss Emily; I knew there was a name by which papa called her, and the moment that I heard it to-day I knew it." 
               Daisy hastened to Margaret with the intelligence: 
               "I heard mamma's name to-day, grandma; a gentleman called it in the surf." 
               "What was it, dear?" 
               "Ethel, grandma." 
               "I remember now that E. A. were the letters on your mamma's clothing; can't you remember what the A was for?" 
               "No, grandma; I don't think that I should knew it, even if I should hear it; for I must have heard the other much oftener." 
               The old people had some interesting talk about the discovery, and Margaret remarked, 
               "What should we do, Aaron, if we should ever discover whom she belongs to?" 
               "I think that it would break my heart to part with Daisy," said the husband. 
               Even this little incident disturbed the old people, for it reminded them that she belonged to another world than theirs. Strange that the name of "Ethel" should have awoke such a feeling of insecurity in their hold upon Daisy! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE WRECKER. 
               EVERY Sunday, now, little Daisy was among the worshipers at the old church; and she had learned, to look forward to that holy day as the brightest and best of all the seven. 
               It is Sunday evening, and Daisy is seated in her little chair between her two guardians. 
               "You should have been there to-day, grandpa," said the child; "it was such a sweet, solemn day." 
               "What was done this morning, Daisy?" inquired Margaret. 
               "They had the Lord's Supper, and a great many Christians ate the bread and wine; I did wish that I could be one of them; I wonder if Mr. Edmunds wouldn't let a little girl sit down at the table of the Lord?" 
               "Little girls don't go there, Daisy; I never heard of one young as you are." 
               "I don't see why, grandma; I believe in Jesus with all my heart, and I know that I love him; you know he said the night before he died, 'This do in remembrance of me;'" turning suddenly, she added, "Why don't you go, grandma? Isn't Jesus your Saviour?" 
               Margaret was silent, for some very early impressions were recalled of years long past, and conscience would not allow her to give an indifferent answer. 
               But next Saturday, Daisy observed that she was cooking something for Sunday's dinner, and she said, 
               "You are going to church to-morrow, grandma, aren't you?" 
               "Yes, my dear. I told Ernest on Wednesday that he need not come for you next Sunday." 
               "I am so glad, grandma; perhaps grandpa can go too after a while." 
               "He might in very fine weather, if Uncle Robert would come and take his place." 
               Sunday morning came; Margaret's old black silk bonnet was brought out and well brushed, her summer shawl unfolded, and in her best gingham, Daisy thought that she made quite a nice appearance. 
               The old wagon had been cleaned the day before, fresh straw spread over the bottom, and with Daisy seated by her side, they started for the old church. 
               Mrs. Slocum was standing with Aaron at the door of the lighthouse when they drove off. 
                
               "That's a dear child," said the old man, wiping a watery corner of his gray eye; "she might have gone in the nice carriage with Miss Rutgers; but see how willing she is to go in that rickety old wagon among all the fine people, just to take grandma to church; there's something ginuin' in that little girl, Mrs. Slocum-very different from all the rest of us here." 
               He spoke the truth, for Daisy was a lamb of the Saviour's flock, and was trying to walk in his footsteps. 
               Daisy had a jolting ride to church; but she was a happy little thing, and was much amused when they arrived at the church door to hear the boys' remarks at their homely equipage. 
               "Come here, Jack," said one; "here's a smart-looking pony; I guess he's lived upon oyster-shells from his looks," 
               "He's a faithful horse, boys," said Daisy, "for he's served grandpa many a long year; and I don't think you ought to make fun of old Bob." 
               Just then the carriage from Oakdale drove up, and Miss Emily hastened to welcome the new comer. 
               "I am glad to see you, Margaret," said the lady; "there's room in my pew, and you are always welcome." 
               Several rude young persons tittered at the sight of the old woman in her ancient bonnet, and Miss Emily resolved that she should not be exposed to their jeers another Sunday. 
               Daisy was very attentive to grandma, finding the hymns, and singing with her sweet childish voice tunes which had now become quite familiar. 
               "I wonder if many little girls would have come to church in such an old truck-wagon as that," said Ernest, "if they could have had a ride in one like ours, Aunt Emily?" 
               "None excepting one whose great desire is to see her dear old guardians followers of the Saviour, Ernest." 
               "Didn't you see Jane and Ellen Bright laughing at the old lady when she came up the aisle?" 
               "Yes, Ernest; but I pitied their vulgarity; little Daisy in her pink gingham is more of a lady than either of them; but they shall have no farther opportunity of laughing at Margaret Gilbert; she shall have a suitable outfit by next Sunday." 
               And true to her word, much to Margaret's surprise, Miss Emily provided a plain straw bonnet with white ribbon, a black silk mantle, and material for a summer dress. 
               Daisy's, eyes sparkled with delight. 
               "I knew that it was coming, grandma," said the child; "it was hard to keep the secret; isn't Miss Emily good and kind?" 
                
               "Yes, Daisy, I haven't been so smart for many a long day." 
               When they went to church again, it was with a very happy look that Daisy, holding grandma's hand, escorted her up to Miss Emily Rutgers' pew. 
               Margaret was a regular church-goer now, and Aaron too was cogitating how he might sometimes accompany them. 
               It is Sunday evening again, and Daisy is walking with grandpa on the beach, lovely at all times, but especially on a moonlight night like this. 
               They are seated on a rock, looking at the white-winged vessels as a fair wind is speeding them along. 
               Sights and sounds are all soothing, for the sailors are heaving the lead and singing their musical soundings. 
               "Isn't that a pretty song, grandpa?" said the child; "how glad the sailors must be when they can sing All's well!'" 
               "Yes, Daisy, after the dangers of a sea-voyage are all over, they must feel comfortable when they can sing that song." 
               Daisy sat a while very quiet, with her head leaning upon her hands, looking earnestly upon the water. 
               "What are you thinking about, little one?" said the old man. 
               "About our chapter in the Bible to-day, grandpa; it was about Jesus walking on the sea; I was wondering how I should feel if I should see him walking there." 
               "You would be frightened, Daisy, wouldn't you?" 
               "Not if I knew that it was Jesus, grandpa; do you remember what sweet words he said to his disciples?" 
               "I have forgotten, Daisy." 
               "He said, 'Be of good cheer. It is I, be not afraid.'" 
               "You think a great deal about his words, Daisy?" 
               "Yes, grandpa; Miss Emily says that he is our best Friend, and I am sure that he must be, for you know that he died for us." 
               Both sat silent again for a few minutes, the old man and the little girl; the latter weaving her silver threads of faith and love so silently on that moonlit beach. 
               Their reverie was suddenly disturbed by the sight of a man creeping stealthily along toward the cliff. 
               "See, there, grandpa! who is that?" said the child. 
               "It is only the wrecker, Daisy; he will not do us any harm." 
               "What a pity that he is such a wicked man, grandpa!" 
               "Yes, Barney O'Flynn has a long account to settle in the other world." 
                
               "Does he do nothing else but rob the wrecks, grandpa?" 
               "He pretends to be a fisherman, Daisy, but, we all know that he does not get his living in that way." 
               "He is good to me, grandpa; I wonder what is the reason?" 
               "It would be strange if he should be bad to such a little girl as you, Daisy." 
               "I wonder if anybody ever talks to Barney about his wicked ways; it seems so dreadful for him to go on to the grave with no one to care for him." 
               "He would tell any one to mind his own business, Daisy." 
               Just then the wrecker passed close to the two. 
               "Is that you, little girl?" 
               "Yes, Barney; we came down to look at the pretty moonlight; don't you like to see it?" 
               "I used to when I was a boy, but I don't care for such things now." 
               "Why don't you like it now, Barney?" 
               "When a fellow grows old, and has to do with the rough world, he's got somethin' else to think about; it does for the like of little innocent childer like you." 
               "That's a pity, Barney, for it makes us think of God." 
               "That's just what I don't like, little girl; I try to git rid of all sich disturbances; good-night, I must hurry home, for I'm off early in the morning." 
               In a few minutes he had disappeared around the cliffs. 
               "I guess he's afraid of God, grandpa," said Daisy. 
               "He has a good right to be, Daisy, for all his life has been one of wickedness." 
               "The Bible tells us, grandpa, that the wicked are 'without God in the world;' I suppose that means that they don't care about him, don't try to please him, and that he is not their friend." 
               Aaron listened to the artless prattle, and wondered if he were not classed among those who forget God. 
               The two were now walking toward the lighthouse, Daisy holding grandpa's hand. 
               "Shall I sing my last new hymn, grandpa, before I go to bed?" 
               "Yes, Daisy; I like to hear you sing." 
               And seated in her little chair, the child warbled forth- 
                      
                        "Saviour, who thy flock art feeding 
                        With the shepherd's kindest care, 
                        All the feeble gently leading, 
                        While the lambs thy bosom share, 
                        Now, these little ones receiving, 
                        Fold them in thy gracious arm; 
                        There, we know, thy word believing, 
                        Only there, secure from harm." 
                     
                  
                   The last words died away sweetly, the good-night whispered, and Daisy was soon asleep, and as Margaret looked upon the dear child in the lowly bed, she said, "She must be one of the Saviour's own lambs; Aaron, don't you think so?" 
               "Yes, wife, I hope that he won't take her away from us old people; it always seems as if we should lose her, Margaret." 
               Long after she was asleep they continued to talk in the moonlight about their darling. 
               Daisy is still fond of walking along the beach with her faithful old Lion, for when he is with her the old people are not afraid to trust her out of their sight. 
               She is taking such a walk on this pleasant evening, and strolling slowly along, finds herself at Kathleen's hut. 
               The girl is alone as usual but she has spied the visitors from the window, and is running out to meet them. 
               "Come in, Daisy," said the child "it has been a long while since you were here; father has been to town and brought me a, new dress, a real nice one. I know that he sold some fish, and the money was all right this time; so don't be worried about it." 
                
               Kathleen opened her trunk, and brought out a decent calico dress and muslin for two aprons. 
               "Now, how shall I get them made, Daisy?" 
               "I'll find out a way, Kathleen; grandma will help, I know; just bring them up to the lighthouse to-morrow, and I'll coax her to help you," 
               "Father's better to me, Daisy, than he used to be; but I don't know what's the matter; I think he's sick, for he eats so little and is getting pale and weak." 
               The children sat by the window talking, and had almost forgotten that the tide must be rising rapidly in the little cove that at high water separated Barney's hut from the upper beach. 
               "I must go, Kathie," said the child; "I'm afraid that I have stayed too long; see how fast the tide is rising!" 
               The two hurried out; and when Daisy reached the crossing-place, she found that it was indeed too late; she could not even attempt to wade through the water. 
               "I must go," said the child, "for grandma will be so frightened; can't you help me, Kathie? suppose I get on Lion's back; he can take me safely over." 
               "You had better not try it, Daisy; it is too deep." 
               Just then Barney came in sight, and Daisy, with shoes and stockings off, was sounding the depth of the water. 
               "You can't wade that, little one," said the wrecker; and lifting her in his arms, carried her safely through the surf, Lion following closely at his heels. 
               "It is too late for you to go home alone," said the man, "for it will soon be dark; I'll go with you." 
               "Thank you, Barney, you are very kind; I should be afraid to go even with Lion." 
               The shades of evening soon closed around them, and Daisy remarked, 
               "You have lived here a long while, Barney, haven't you?" 
               "Yes; we came here when Kathleen was a baby." 
               "You have seen a great many dreadful storms, Barney." 
               "You may well say that; for in the winter a heap of vessels are blown upon this rocky coast." 
               "Were you here when we were wrecked, Barney?" 
               The man was silent for a minute) for he had acted a wicked part on that stormy night. 
               Many a night since then had he lain awake, thinking of the sailor that he had pitched back into the roaring sea, whom he had found seated upon a trunk that he was watching. 
                
               The sailor had found a watery grave on that terrible night, and the trunk had stood ever since in the loft of the wrecker's hut; for, having discovered that it probably belonged to the lady that was cast ashore with the child, he could not have the heart to sell its contents. 
               These thoughts passed swiftly through his brain at Daisy's artless question, and after a minute's pause he replied, 
               "I was among the people on the beach, and ne'er seen a more awful night." 
               "Didn't it make you think about God, Barney?" 
               "A man that lives on this rocky coast gits used to sich things, Daisy; I seen a ship wrecked here once, where fifty souls perished." 
               "That was dreadful, Barney; fifty souls, all going in a minute to the Great Judge; don't you never think of that?" 
               "It wouldn't do for me to think much about sich things, Daisy; I should git the blues." 
               "But we have to think about them, Barney; you know that we must all die, and then comes the judgment." 
               The wrecker was silent; for conscience was awake at that moment, and was powerfully asserting her claims for an audience. 
               She had spoken frequently lately, for Barney felt that the citadel of life was giving way, and that the future was all dark. 
               "You don't look so well as you used to, Barney; are you sick?" 
               The tender, sympathizing voice touched the wrecker's heart, and he replied, 
               "I am far from well, Daisy." 
               They had reached the lighthouse now, and ere the little girl bade good-night, she said, 
               "I wish that you knew the sinner's friend, Barney." 
               "Who is that, little girl?" 
               "It is Jesus, the Son of God, who died for us." 
               "He wouldn't look at such a one as me, Daisy; you don't know how bad I am." 
               "The hymn says, 
                     'Not the righteous-sinners Jesus carne to call.'"
                  
                
               "Good-night, little Daisy." 
               "Good-night, Barney; I thank you for bringing me home; I'll pray for you, Barney; won't you pray, too?" 
               "It's no use, Daisy; good-night." The wrecker stood watching in a thoughtful mood, and the child turned sadly into her humble home, where Margaret was waiting anxiously for her return. 
               Barney walked slowly home, thinking of Daisy's words, for they had revived impressions which had seemed long since dead. 
               Weave your silver threads, little Daisy, around the wrecker's heart; who knows what tissues may follow the weaver's fingers. 
               The child was true to her word, and in all her simple, childish prayers she remembered the wrecker's name, praying that God would soften the hard and stony heart. 
               Next day Kathleen hurried with her treasures to the lighthouse. 
               "I heard that you were coming, Kathie," said Margaret; "I'll help you, if you'll stay all day, for I wouldn't have the heart to say no to a motherless child like you." 
               "I can stay very well, for father has gone to be away all day." 
               Seated together, the three busied themselves at the work, for Daisy had learned to use her needle, and could do the easy sewing. By sundown, a very neat calico dress crowned their labors, and Kathleen was both proud and grateful. 
               It soon became very apparent that Barney was a sick man, and Kathleen had much to tell of her father's weakness, until at length he was confined to his bed altogether. 
               "Come and see him, Daisy," the child would say; "he likes to see you-your visits always do him good." 
               We find her therefore frequently at the wrecker's hut, talking with and reading to him, and singing her sweet hymns. 
               One day he had been sorely troubled, and in the afternoon Daisy stepped in. 
               Barney called Kathleen to his bedside, and whispered for her to leave the room, "For," said he, "I have much to say to this little girl." 
               Left alone with the child, he said: 
               "Come here, Daisy; I have something to tell you, and cannot be easy until you know it. On the night of your shipwreck there was a trunk cast ashore, which I believe must have belonged to your mother; it is up in our loft, and I wish it returned to the proper owner." 
               "What makes you think that it is mine, Barney?" 
               "There are many little girls' dresses there, Daisy, very fine and handsomely trimmed; there are also articles of ladies' clothing, and some rich jewelry; some of the clothes have been wet; but I had them all taken out and dried; the colored dresses are stained by sea-water, but the white is not at all hurt. I shall feel contented if I am sure that it will be returned to the right owner, for I know, Daisy, that I am going to die." 
                
               "Does the doctor think that you will never get well, Barney?" 
               "He doesn't give me much hope, but I don't need the doctor to tell me that I am going to die, Daisy, and I'm not fit to go before the Judge!" 
               "If you will only repent, Barney, God will forgive you, for Jesus' sake." 
               "The leopard can't change his spots, little girl." 
               "No, Barney, I know that, but Miss Emily says that the Holy Spirit can." 
               "How can I make up for all the wickedness that I have committed?" 
               "I know a sweet hymn that tells us how, Barney; shall I sing it?" 
               "Sing, Daisy;" and the wrecker closed his eyes, while in sweet, childish accents, she sung- 
                      
                        "There is a fountain filled with blood, 
                        Drawn from Immanuel's veins, 
                        And sinners, plunged beneath that flood, 
                        Lose all their guilty stains. 
                     
                      
                        "The dying thief rejoiced to see 
                        That fountain in his day; 
                        And there may I, as vile as he, 
                        Wash all my guilt away. 
                     
                      
                        "Oh who's like Jesus? hallelujah! 
                        Praise ye the Lord; 
                        There's none like Jesus; hallelujah! 
                        Love and serve the Lord." 
                     
                  
                
                
               "That's the way, Barney, that we must all be saved." 
               "Who told you so much, Daisy?" 
               "Miss Emily Rutgers teaches me three times a week about the blessed Bible; and I read every evening to grandpa and grandma; then, Barney, I pray for God to teach me the truth, and I know that he hears me." 
               "There is something, Daisy, that I can't tell you; it lays heavy on my soul; it's a dreadful load to carry to eternity." 
               "Shall I bring Mr. Edmunds to see you?" 
               "I would rather see Miss Rutgers." 
               "I know that she will come, and I'll bring her tomorrow; but I must go now; good-bye; don't forget to pray, Barney." 
               Kathleen observed her father's disturbed state of mind all day, groaning and tossing upon his restless bed. 
               "Shall I bring the priest, father?" said the girl. 
               "No; I don't want no priest, Kathleen; I want somebody to show me the way to Jesus." 
               Next day, Daisy brought Miss Rutgers, and desiring to be left alone, Barney confessed his guilt: 
               "I have been guilty of the murder of two men, Miss Emily;" and he told the story of the sailor on the night when Daisy was cast upon the shore, and that of another who had threatened to turn State's evidence against him years before. 
               "Is there pardon for such a wretch, Miss Rutgers?" asked the man at the conclusion of his revelations. 
               "The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin, Barney." 
               "Cleanseth whom, Miss Rutgers?" 
               "The truly penitent, Barney." 
               "How do I know that I am one? If I should get well, I may go back again to my former life." 
               "What led you to think of the concerns of another world, Barney?" 
               "The innocent words of little Daisy, ma'am; it seems just as if God had sent her here as a message of good news; you will see, ma'am, that she gits the trunk up in the loft when I am gone; won't you, Miss Rutgers?" 
               "It shall be strictly attended to, Barney." 
               "There's a heap of things about this old house that don't belong to me, which must be sent to the underwriters at the custom-house; if they don't know the owners, I should like them sold for the benefit of the families of shipwrecked sailors; that's the best that I can do." 
               "Tell me where they are to be found." 
               "There's one box under the hearth, and another out behind the back door, and several up in the loft; Kathleen knows all about them; you won't forget her, Miss Rutgers; I have been a bad father to her; but if God should spare my life, I should try to do a better part by her." 
               The wrecker was comforted by the promises of Miss Rutgers, but most by the sweet hymns of little Daisy. 
               Day by day he declined, and the child that he had robbed in the days of his wickedness was the little minister that God had chosen to bring the simple message of salvation to his death-bed. 
               It was but a faint and trembling hope that the wrecker entertained, but then he would say, 
               "It is God that I am to meet, and not man; for he would never forgive such crimes as I have committed." 
               "Lord, remember me when thou comest in thy kingdom," was his only prayer; and, like the penitent thief by the side of the crucified, we trust that he found mercy. 
               Daily did little Daisy wend her way to the sick room; but one morning when she reached the hut, the closed windows and piece of black muslin at the door told the tale that Barney was no more. 
               She opened the door, and rocking herself in a little chair by the bedside, Kathleen was alone with the dead. 
                
               "I knew that it was the last night, Daisy," sobbed the girl; "for all night the banshee cried close to the window." 
               "The wind blew hard last night, Kathie; I guess that was all the banshee that you heard." 
               Kathleen shook her head. 
               "I know that I heard it, Daisy." 
               The humble funeral over, the trunk was brought to the lighthouse; and when Margaret examined its contents, there could be no doubt that it had belonged to Daisy's mother, for there were the same' initials that were found upon the other clothing. 
               In a small tray in the top of the trunk was found a square book tied with a green ribbon, and on opening it, Margaret was much affected to find that it contained the drowned lady's journal. 
               The other goods were sent to the custom-house with Barney's request, and quite a nice little fund was laid by for the families named by the wrecker-a fitting disposal of goods thus obtained. 
               Margaret took Kathleen to her house until some suitable home was provided for the helpless orphan; and in a day or two, Miss Emily came to the lighthouse to fulfil her trust. 
               Margaret had made an affecting discovery on opening the trunk, and handing Miss Rutgers the journal, that lady touched it with reverent fingers. 
                
               There was much recorded on its pages that revealed a pious, cultivated mind, but nothing that could lead to the discovery of Daisy's name or family. 
               We will make a few extracts from its leaves: 
               "Yesterday I turned my back upon my home, and as the trees of the park faded from my view, I wondered if I should ever see them again; every leaf is endeared to me by a crowd of tender recollections, and no spot on earth can ever be so dear as this. 
               "It is a comfort to have one of my children with me, and my youngest darling is such a lovely child; may the Good Shepherd have her in his holy keeping, and make her truly a lamb of his flock, is my hourly prayer; and may he bless the dear one that I have left at home. 
               "I desire to commit myself wholly to his gracious keeping; if he should bless the means used for the restoration of my health, I should be thankful; if otherwise, entirely submissive, saying, 'Father, thy holy will, not mine, be done.'" 
               Further on we read: 
               "We are in sight of the shores of America; a pleasant voyage has brought us thus far in safety, and to God be all the praise." 
               "On the ocean again, my face turned toward England; may our Father restore me to my loved ones again; there are threatening signs in the heavens, indicating an approaching storm; but we are in our Father's keeping, in life or death." 
               This was the closing entry in the journal, and Miss Rutgers wiped a tear as she read the last words ever written by Daisy's mother. 
               Carefully folded up, the manuscript was laid away for the little girl, and then the subject of Kathleen's future came up for discussion. 
               "I can make her useful in my family, Margaret" said the lady, "for I am in need of a personal attendant; and I think that I could make her very happy." 
               Kathleen was delighted with the news that she was to be Miss Rutgers' waiting-maid, for she had learned to respect her as a Christian lady. 
               Accordingly, we find her soon domesticated at Oakdale; and under the training of Miss Emily the child was likely to become an excellent servant. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               ASTRAY. 
               ERNEST frequently rides down to the beach on his pony, and many excursions are taken in company with his little friend. 
               She has learned to ride quite well, and the old people are highly amused at Daisy's horsemanship. 
               There is one place that Ernest has never yet visited, the scene of Daisy's most reverent wonder-the tower in the lighthouse. She has obtained permission to take her young friend up to see the lantern. 
               "See here, Ernest!" said the child; "this great lantern has saved many a life, and grandpa lets me feed it sometimes." 
               "I should think that these glass windows are in danger of being broken, Daisy." 
               "That has happened, Ernest, in very dreadful storms, when the rain and hail beat against them." 
               "What a large place it is, Daisy!" said the boy, "and yet I suppose that this tall lighthouse must feel the storms very heavily." 
               "Yes, Ernest, grandpa says that he has felt it rock in high winds; wouldn't you like to tend the lantern, Ernest? 
               "If I had company, Daisy, but I think it would be very dreary up in this great tower alone." 
               "Grandma is calling, Ernest; let us go down, she has some sea-biscuits and cheese for us; wouldn't you like some?" 
               After regaling themselves a while, the two started for a ramble on the beach. 
               "There, Daisy!" said the boy; "do you know what that is?" pointing to a boat moored to one of the rocks. 
               "That is a life-boat, Ernest." 
               "Wouldn't you like to take a row! it is a fine day, and I know how to manage the oars just as well as a man." 
               "We mustn't go too far, Ernest," replied the little girl as, without further thought, she stepped into the boat. 
               Lion had followed them, and was standing on the shore when the two embarked. The dog had a disturbed, anxious look, and as they pushed off expressed disapprobation by low whines, pacing up and down the shore. 
               There was a smooth surf, and the boat danced merrily along on the sparkling water; singing their lively boat-songs, they were not aware how the time flew, for, looking at his watch, Ernest found that they had been out two hours. Suddenly the heavens appeared overcast, and there were indications of an approaching gale. 
               "Had we not better return, Ernest?" said the child; "we shall have a gale-see how low the birds fly." 
               "That is nothing, Daisy; there are some birds that always fly low." 
               "Yes, I know, Ernest; but don't you see the white caps coming on in troops over the waves?" 
               "What of that, child? it is only a brisk little breeze that ruffles the water; that's what I like, Daisy." 
               "Suppose a gale should come suddenly, Ernest, what would you do? could you manage the boat yourself?" 
               The child cowered as she spoke, for at that moment a sudden swell sent a wave dashing over their frail boat. 
               "I am not afraid, Daisy." 
               "I am, Ernest, because we are not doing right; grandpa and grandma are distressed, I am sure, for they don't know where I am; do let us return in time." 
               Just then the gale came speeding on, the boat began to toss and rock on the agitated waves, and Ernest nest knew that it would be a perilous voyage, for they were far from land. The boy's cheek turned pale, as the wind continued to rise rapidly, the boat tossing about like an egg-shell; but he tried to conceal his fears from Daisy, and pulled against wind and tide with all the power of his young arm. 
               After great effort, the boat came in sight of the anxious watchers on the beach. 
               "Look, Ernest I there is grandpa walking up and down the shore, and there is grandma too; see how she is wringing her hands." 
               With these words, Daisy had risen in the boat and was trying to stand upon her feet. 
               "Sit down, Daisy, do," said the boy; "you will be overboard in this rocking boat." 
               The child's courage forsook her at the sight of the anguish on the beach, and she burst into tears. 
               "How thoughtless we have been, Ernest! and what trouble we have brought upon my dear old friends! I can't bear to look at them." 
               But she glanced again, and there among the company was poor Lion too, who seemed to know that there was trouble on the ocean. The gale increased in fury, and the watchers on the shore frequently lost sight of the boat, as she seemed now to be drifting out to sea. 
               "We shall never reach the shore, Ernest," said the child, for she was conscious of another change in the course of the life-boat. 
               But help was approaching. 
               "They are coming, Daisy!" said the boy. 
               "Who, Ernest?" 
               "Another boat, manned with four stout men; the lighthouse-keeper is one." 
               Daisy clasped her hands in agony. 
               "O blessed Saviour! take care of my dear old grandpa, and bring him to us in safety;" and with these words she folded her hands, and sat quietly in the boat. 
               "They are drawing near, Daisy; I think I hear them shout." 
               The boat was surely approaching, and Daisy rose again to her feet, that she might be seen plainly. 
               A voice came over the water. 
               "Sit down, my child; we are coming." 
               Daisy knew the voice, and was quieted. 
               In a few minutes more help was at hand; Aaron lifted Daisy into the boat, Ernest followed, and two of the men took charge of the life-boat, while the other rowed rapidly to land. 
               "Forgive me, dear grandpa," said the little girl, as, lying down in the boat, she leaned her wearied head upon Aaron's lap, who laid his rough hand tenderly upon the brown locks. 
                
               "God be praised, Daisy! we were all afraid that we should never see you again." 
               After many buffetings with the angry waves, the boat was at the shore, and many a heart went up thankfully for the rescue. 
               Daisy, in her anxiety to land, lost her footing, and ere any one was aware of it, fell into the deep water; two or three times she disappeared; but casting himself into the surf, Aaron succeeded at last in bringing the poor child to the shore. 
               It was a wilted little form that lay upon his bosom; closed eyes, a marble face and dripping hair gave to the spectators the sight of a drowned child, and a wail went up from many of the dwellers on the shore, who followed the party to the lighthouse. Margaret hastened forward with agony on every feature, to hasten preparations for her darling. 
               Aaron had much experience in cases like this, and by the time he reached the house, a deep sigh from Daisy relieved his anxious fears. Little Daisy's web of life was not completed, and many a silver thread was yet to be woven in the shining tissue. 
               Applying the usual restoratives, in about an hour the child revived entirely, and throwing her arms around Margaret's neck, she said, 
               "Forgive me, dear grandma; I didn't think of going out so far; then the gale came up, and Ernest couldn't manage the boat; but I prayed, grandma and God was good to us." 
               But there is one coming to tell his joy. 
               Lion is scratching at the door, and on being admitted stations himself at the bedside, licking fondly the little hand stretched out to her faithful guardian. 
               "You didn't want me to go, did you, old fellow?" said Daisy, for she remembered how he ran up and down the beach, whining as he saw the boat push off. 
               "May I come in, Daisy?" said another, waiting outside the door. 
               "That is Ernest," said the child; "poor fellow! I guess he feels very badly; can't he come in, grandma?" 
               "Yes, my dear; but he was terribly to blame for leading you off." 
               The boy approached the bedside with a sorrowful, anxious face. 
               "Forgive me, Daisy; I should not have tempted you to forget your old friend's commands; but I didn't think of going out so far." 
               "I knew better, Ernest, and was just as thoughtless as you; but I think it will be a lesson to us; I was so sorry to see grandpa's distress." 
               Daisy was confined to her room for several days; but on the following week, she returned to her studies at Oakdale, and Miss Emily informed her that she was going to visit her nieces, Sophy and Ellen Crosby, both older than our little girl, and, if grandma would consent, Daisy should go too. 
               Margaret was always willing to give her pleasure, especially as she was still rather weak after her adventure on the ocean. 
               Kathleen is always glad when the day rolls round that brings Daisy to Oakdale; and although their relative positions were becoming every day more and more unlike, yet the friendship formed on the seashore was still unbroken. 
               One day, Daisy had completed her studies, and was waiting in the library for Ernest to come round with the pony carriage to take her home, when Kathleen's face was seen peeping in at the door. 
               "Come in, Kathie!" said the child; "I want to talk to you a little; isn't it nice here at Oakdale?" 
               "Yes, Daisy; I am very happy, for Miss Emily is just as good as she can be; and I am learning so many good things; I wonder if it just came by chance that you were cast ashore at the lighthouse?" 
               "Miss Emily says that nothing comes by chance, Kathleen; everything is ordered by our heavenly Father; but what has my being shipwrecked to do with your coming to Oakdale?" 
                
               "Why, you see, Daisy, if you had not been sent to the lighthouse, nobody would have cared for Kathleen, the wrecker's daughter; I should never have learned to read; and wasn't it through you that I got to know Miss Emily, and was brought to this happy home? How strangely all these things seemed joined together, Daisy!" 
               Kathleen knew nothing of the silver threads of Providence by name, but she was learning to trace them as well as Daisy. 
               "There is Ernest," said the child, as the pony carriage drove up to the door; "good-bye, Kathleen;" and stepping in, she left the girl standing on the piazza, and wondering still. 
               "Miss Emily told me yesterday about the angels that wait upon good people; I guess that Daisy Gilbert has one all to herself," thought the girl. 
               "We shall go to-morrow, Daisy," said Miss Emily; "so come all ready for the visit." 
               It was with a beaming face that the child took her seat by Miss Emily in the carriage; and all along the road entertained her friend by her sprightly, interesting remarks. 
               At the end of two hours' ride they came in sight of Hillside, the name of the Crosby homestead. 
               "There, Daisy!" said Ernest, "is our stopping-place place; isn't it pleasant? and there are the girls out on the piazza." 
               Drawn up to the gate, the merry chattering of young voices brought out mamma to receive the guests. 
               "And this is Daisy Gilbert, I suppose?" said Mrs. Crosby, leading the child into the house. 
               The work of disrobing completed, the children trotted their little guest around to show their possessions. 
               There were Carlos, Ellen's pet dog, and Muff, Sophy's cat; there were brother Tom's pigeons, arid Max, the pony, used by the trio. 
               After the wonderful tricks that all performed had been fully described, the question arose, 
               "Now what shall we do to-day?" 
               Daisy's peep into the play-room revealed the most inviting sport, for there were dolls of many sizes, a baby-house that the little girls had cast aside, and many other attractive toys-Daisy was charmed, for she had never seen so many before. 
               "Suppose we stay here," said the child; "there are dolls enough to keep a boarding-school." 
               Accordingly, Ellen was appointed principal, Sophy teacher, and Daisy, the lady to place her daughters at school. 
               This attractive room furnished sport for all the morning; and in the afternoon, a ride to the Falls completed the day. 
               Gathered in the family-room after tea, Mrs. Crosby asked for some music, and Miss Emily was not ashamed to place her little pupil at the piano, for she had learned several hymns very prettily, accompanying them with her sweet, childish voice. 
               Bed-time came at length, and Daisy bade goodnight like a little lady. 
               "Did you give her lessons, Emily?" said her sister. 
               "Yes, Martha, and I can assure you that it is a great pleasure." 
               "One can scarcely believe that child to have been brought up among the rude fishermen on the shore; she certainly is not of their order." 
               "I am quite sure of that, for there is nothing coarse about the little girl; and then she is such a good child, so conscientious and God-fearing." 
               "I wonder who she really is; her friends must be people of the upper classes, I am sure." 
               "Yes; there are many things to lead us to suppose that; indeed, the mother's journal, found lately in her trunk, makes that conclusive; I feel now as if I should be very sorry to know her relatives." 
               It was a pleasant week spent at Hillside, the children mutually pleased with each other, and Mrs. Crosby promised Aunt Emily, when she took her departure, to return the visit at Christmas. 
               Daisy is at home again, glad to be once more with her dear old friends at the lighthouse. 
               "Here I am, grandma!" said the child, as, springing out of the carriage, she clasped her arms around Margaret's neck. 
               "Our little girl don't forget us, Miss Emily," said the happy old woman, "though she goes among fine people." 
               "You need never fear that, Margaret; her heart is here with all its warmth of love." 
               Miss Emily took leave, and Daisy opened her treasures. 
               "Look here, grandma! what a beautiful book;" and the child opened a volume of Miss Edge-worth Moral Tales, and showed the pictures to Margaret. 
               "Here is a basket of nice pears for you and grandpa, and Ellen gave me this beautiful doll, and Sophy this nice work-box; they were just as good as ever they could be, grandma; ought I not to be a good little girl?" 
               "You are to me, Daisy; I don't know what I should do without you." 
               "I ought to be good to God too, grandma, for he gives me these kind friends." 
                
               "Do you know that Miss Emily has offered to take you, Daisy, as her own little girl, and give you a fine education?" 
               "I did not know it, grandma," said the child, with a thoughtful face. 
               "She will dress you like a lady, Daisy, and then you will be among people like your own; don't you sometimes wish to live among these fine people?" 
               "What! leave you and grandpa?" exclaimed the child, with innocent surprise on every feature. "I hope I'll never be so bad as that; didn't you take me in when the wild waves cast me on the shore? and haven't you been the dearest, best of mothers ever since? I wouldn't leave you for any one in this wide world, excepting"-and the child stopped. 
               "Excepting whom, Daisy?" 
               "For my father, if I have one in this world," for Daisy had begun to wonder if on this earth there were any one, that she might call by that dear name. 
               Margaret's countenance saddened, for the same thoughts would sometimes cross her mind-and what then? She could not endure the thought. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               CHRISTMAS AT OAKDALE. 
               IT is winter now; out-door sports are at an end, and the season of storms has commenced. Margaret is busy in making preparations for the northeasters, for they bring sharp blasts upon their wings. 
               She is manufacturing comforts for the beds, the stove has been put up in the little family-room, the list nailed around the doors; but with all these precautions, the wind whistles shrilly through the keyholes and cracks of the loose window-sash. 
               Daisy is concerned about her flowers, for she has quite a number of lovely plants, given to her by Miss Emily. 
               Aaron has made her a set of steps, and they are placed where the morning sun beams upon them. The monthly roses bloom still, and Daisy delights in their sweetness as every morning she waters her plants, and Margaret smiles to hear her talking to them as if they were friends; and they were friends to Daisy, for they helped to keep alive the glow of adoring love to the gracious Giver. 
                
               The two are drawn more closely together now than in the pleasant spring-time, when there is so much to attract out of doors. 
               We will describe one of these winter evenings. 
               Aaron is seated near the stove mending his fishing-net, Margaret is sewing at the table, and Daisy's little fingers are busy with her knitting-needles, for she is an expert knitter now. 
               "See, grandma!" said the child, "I am half-way up the leg; I shall finish my stocking this week; and grandpa shall have a nice warm pair by Sunday; won't that be nice, old gentleman?" 
               Aaron laughed at the child, and said: 
               "I don't believe that any of the men about wear stockings knit by their little girls, excepting myself." 
               "I am going to knit two pair more for you, and three for grandma; that will be three for each: I guess that'll be enough." 
               "It's most nine o'clock, Daisy," said the old lady. 
               "Just hear how the wind blows," said the child; "it sounds as if something alive was screaming around us; isn't it comfortable to sit here around this warm fire? I hope that there are no poor vessels out on the coast to-night; but it's time to put up;" and folding her work, Daisy took out her Testament and commenced her nightly reading. 
               She had learned to read beautifully, and the old People enjoyed this pleasant close of their winter evening. 
               "Let me see where we left off," said the child; "we have just commenced the gospel of John;" and opening the Bible, she read in sweet, clear tones the third chapter; reaching the third verse, she said, 
               "'Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God;' do you know what that means, grandpa? Miss Emily says that Jesus meant that our old nature is not fit for the kingdom of heaven, and that we must have a new one given to us." 
               "How is that done, Daisy?" 
               "I will read, grandpa: 'The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth; so is every one that is born of the Spirit.'" 
               "How can we get the Holy Spirit?" 
               "This is the way that Jesus taught: 'And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up! 
               "'That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. 
               "'For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.' 
               "So you see, grandpa, we must have faith in Jesus; he gives us everything-pardon for our sins, grace to love and serve him, the light of the Holy Spirit to show us the way to heaven. Miss Emily says that Jesus is everything." Drawing near to Aaron, she continued, "When she talks so to me about him, I know that I love him, grandpa, and sometimes I want to go away just to see him; don't you love him, grandpa?" 
               "That is a question that I ought to be able to answer, Daisy, but I am afraid that it would not please you; but finish the chapter, dear." 
               And on to the end in sweet, reverent tones, the child read the words of Jesus in this lowly cottage, spinning the silver threads of faith, and hope, and love while her young heart invoked God's blessing on his word. The reading is ended, the book closed. 
               "Good-night, grandpa, good-night, grandma;" and pressing a kiss upon the aged cheeks, she passed into her little room to breathe her simple prayers, and then to sleep under the care of her ministering angel; for certainly little Daisy was one of those of whom. it was said that "their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." 
               The teaching still goes on at Oakdale: sometimes the weather is too inclement for Daisy to ride so far, and occasionally she stays all night with Miss Rutgers for the same reason. Mr. Edmunds, the good pastor, regards the family at the lighthouse as belonging to his flock now; for every Sunday either Aaron or Margaret is seen with little Daisy at church, and it is one of his visiting-places; he has learned to love the child, and she is always glad to see the minister. 
               There is a cold spell now, and Daisy has just returned from a visit to Oakdale. 
               "Miss Emily has invited me to spend the holidays with her, grandma; what do you say about it? Sophy and Ellen Crosby are going, and we shall have a nice time." 
               "I don't know how I can spare my little girl for a whole week," was the reply. "I think that we will divide the time; we would like to have you with us on Christmas eve, Daisy, and the next day you can go to Miss Emily's; we are going to celebrate it at the lighthouse in a very simple way-very different from Oakdale; but you must make your choice between the two, dear." 
               Daisy threw her arms around Margaret's neck, saying, 
               "I'll stay with you, dear grandma, to be sure, and we'll have a grand time." 
               "We have been thinking about it for several weeks, Daisy, and I know that grandpa will be delighted to find that you axe to be with us." 
                
               The short days and long nights are speeding on, and Christmas is here. 
               The old wagon is at the door, and Daisy, closely muffled up, rides off with grandpa to the woods, for he is going to have a green holiday at the lighthouse. They are soon in the midst of pine and cedar, and Daisy, seated in the wagon, busies herself in arranging the green boughs as Aaron piles them in. 
               The family-room and Daisy's sleeping-room are both richly dressed with evergreens, and the little girl is happy in the joy that she is giving to the dear old couple. 
               "You must go to bed early to-night, dear," said grandma; "for we have a great deal to do." 
               It is a bright, starlight night, and the sharp, frosty air imparts fresh brilliancy to the winter constellations. 
               Daisy is standing at the door in a thoughtful mood, looking upward. 
               "What are you thinking of, Daisy?" said Margaret, who had joined her at the door. 
               "About that blessed night on the plains of Judea; how I should like to have heard the angels' song; what a beautiful sight there must have been in the sky that night, grandma!" 
               "How do you think that the shepherds felt, Daisy, at the wonderful sight?" 
               "The Bible says that they were sore afraid; but that is nothing to the sight that we shall see when Jesus comes to judgment, that will be a dreadful day, grandma; I was reading about it yesterday." 
               "What does the Bible say about it, Daisy?" 
               "'When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory;' how glad his children will be when they see him coming again!" 
               "Would you be glad, Daisy?" asked Margaret. 
               "When grandpa goes away to stay a few days, am I not glad when he comes back again? You know that I am, grandma; and so shall I be glad when my dear Saviour comes, for I love him better than any one in all this world." 
               The winter stars shone down upon the gazers, and who can say that the same angels did not look down also, as little Daisy spun her silver threads in the warp of her young life, and perchance in that of Margaret also? 
               They have both left the cold night air, and after her good-night kiss, Daisy disappeared into her little room, while the aged pair busied themselves in their simple offices of love. 
               In lordly halls and princely palaces, in city mansions, among the lofty and the lowly, and in the homesteads of dwellers in the country, loving hands were everywhere preparing for Khriskingle; but nowhere where with deeper love or purer joy than in the cottage at the lighthouse. 
               It is Christmas morning, and Daisy is up betimes, but not before her humble friends. 
               Her stocking is hanging by the bedside, well filled with bon-bons, and in the family-room stands Aaron's Christmas tree. It has a few glass globes, some colored candles and some bright red apples. There is a beautiful doll on the small chair, but Daisy does not know that Aaron has dispensed with a new hat to purchase this gift for his pet; there is a book, too, from Margaret, and Daisy is a happy child on this Christmas morning. She is quite puzzled at the sight of a handsome iced cake with a Christmas angel on the top, for she knows that her old friends could not provide such a gift. 
               "That cake is from Miss Emily, Daisy," said Margaret; "she knew that you were to keep Christmas eve at home, and sent it yesterday." 
               "She is a dear, kind friend, grandma; I ought to be a good little girl, when God is so good to me: this is really a happy Christmas." 
               After breakfast, Daisy stepped out to look at the snow that was now falling on the beach, and putting on her thick shoes and winter hood and cloak, she started off for a run among the cottages, and first she peeped in at Patty Slocum's; but there was no Christmas there-the mother was just as slovenly and the house as dirty as other days; Daisy could not bid a "happy Christmas" there. Next to the Murphys, but there was no brightness there, for two of the children were sick with measles; then to Neddy White's, but the boy was in disgrace, pouting in the corner, with the red marks of his mother's hand upon his swollen cheek; she hesitated at Rosy Gorman's door, for she heard violent language within and was afraid to enter, for Bob Gorman was a drunkard, and was very abusive to his family when the fit was on him. 
               Last of all, she stepped into the Maloney cottage; there only Christmas had been remembered, for Barney had bought a penny whistle for Billy, a rattle for baby, and some sugar-plums to fill the stockings. 
               Daisy walked thoughtfully back to the lighthouse, and Margaret saw that she had a troubled face. 
               "There was no Christmas, grandma, at any of the fishermen's huts excepting at Maloney's-it did look so dismal; I wonder if I could not make it a little brighter; I was thinking that I might take over some of the green boughs, I have so many; and I can spare some of my bon-bons; and I have a great many little papers and cards with pictures; they never see such things; can't I go, grandma? Ernest will not be here until eleven o'clock." 
               "Go, my dear child," said Margaret, "and God be with you in your work." 
               Daisy couldn't carry all that she needed, and grandma helped her to lug over the evergreens. 
               "Let me in, Mrs. Slocum; I've come to bring Christmas here; sha'n't I hang up these boughs?" 
               "Do just what you please, Daisy, but the house must be a little tidied first." 
               And Patty and her mother went to work, and soon reduced the place to some order. Then Daisy hung her Christmas branch over each window, opened her basket and gave to each sparkling child a pretty bonbon, a bright picture card and an illustrated newspaper. 
               "Now I can wish you all a happy Christmas," said the child, as she looked around at her pleasant work, for there were smiles upon every face. 
               Passing on to the Murphys, she performed the same sweet offices, and the sick children stopped their fretting as they watched her gentle motions and listened to her loving words. The Christmas boughs brought healing there, too-; and opening the next cottage door, she coaxed Neddy White out of the corner, told him of the Christ-child, and hanging a branch for him and her love gifts also, she left behind more sweetness than the fragrance of cedar boughs. She even ventured to peep in at the Gormans, for it was quiet there now. The drunken father was asleep, and the poor, frightened children gradually gathered around Daisy at her holy work, smiled at the Christmas bough, rejoiced over their bon-bons, and examined their pretty pictures with childish delight, soon forgetting their troubles. 
               Didn't little Billy Maloney clap his chubby hands in ecstasy over Daisy's work? 
               "She's my gal, ain't she, mother?" said the boy. 
               "Yes," said the mother; "she's jest the little lady; but she's not too proud to come among us poor people, God bless her!" 
               And so the Christmas angel passed on to the lighthouse, singing her sweet hymn, and happy at the thought of the joy that she had left behind her at the fishermen's huts. How little did she know of the silver threads that she was weaving around their humble firesides! 
               Seated near Margaret, Daisy was telling about her visits to the cottages, when suddenly the sound of sleigh-bells called her to the door, for there was Ernest in a fine sleigh, with a warm buffalo-robe to wrap up the little girl. "Be quick, Daisy," said the boy, "the girls are waiting for you." 
               She was soon ready, and with a kiss promised to be back by New Year's day, to spend it at the lighthouse. "Don't get lonesome, grandma, the time will soon pass away." 
               It was a pretty cold ride, but there was a glow around Daisy's heart that lit up her soft dark eyes, and gushed from her sweet lips in musical prattle to her companion. 
               "I have had such a happy Christmas, Ernest," said the child, "it was so bright at the lighthouse; and when I went round among the fishermen's children to wish them 'a happy Christmas,' I couldn't do it, Ernest, it was so dismal there; so I went home, and brought Christmas to them; you never saw such a company of merry children, and I could wish them a happy Christmas,' before I went away." In chat like this, they rode swiftly along, and were soon at Oakdale. 
               Shaking herself free from the buffalo-robe, Daisy-sprang out with a light step upon the piazza, where Ellen and Sophy were both in waiting. 
               "Why didn't you come yesterday, Daisy?" said Ellen; "we had such a grand time last evening." 
               "I preferred to stay with grandpa and grandma, Ellen." 
               "You're a strange girl, Daisy," was the quick reply, "to prefer such a miserable Christmas eve to one at Oakdale with Aunt Emily; for my part, I don't see how you can be contented in such a hole as that." 
               "You forget, Ellen, that they took me in when I should have died without them; I can never forget their love to me; and then it made them so happy to find that I chose to stay at home." 
               They were now within the hall, and in the next minute were ushered into the bright family-room. There was a glowing fire of bituminous coal burning in the open grate; rich curtains shut out the wintry blasts, and at one end of the room stood the Christmas tree, laden with costly gifts, and decorated with a large quantity of colored globes and wax candles. 
               "You should have seen it last night," said Sophy, "when it was lit up; I don't think that you ever saw anything so beautiful in all your life." 
               "It shall be lit again to-night," said Miss Emily, "and then Daisy shall enjoy it; but come here, my little girl, we have not forgotten you; here is a dear little muff and tippet, Daisy;" and opening a box, she brought out a set of squirrel furs. 
               "Is that really for me?" said the grateful child. 
               "Yes, really for you, and here is a green merino dress, a nice warm coat, a black felt hat with velvet trimmings; so you see, my little girl, that you are fitted out for winter." 
                
               "Thank you, dear, good Miss Emily," said the child, kissing the lady's hand; "you have made a very happy Christmas day for me." 
               "Here is a book from me," said Ernest, and he handed her a copy of "Ministering Children." 
               Daisy ran her eyes rapidly over its pages, stopping to admire the pretty pictures, and then turning to Ernest, said, 
               "I know that this is a beautiful book, and I thank you ever so much." 
               After disrobing, Miss Emily gathered the children around the bright fire, and entertained them with accounts of the ancient modes of celebrating the season in old England. The story of the waits, the Lord of Misrule, the yule log, and the mistletoe bough, all in turn were discussed; but Miss Emily concluded that the present mode of keeping the holiday, though not so boisterous, was infinitely more pure and Christian-like. The children, however, thought that they would like to have seen some of these merry games of the olden times. 
               "We shall have our party this afternoon, such as I hope our dear Lord would approve, for we shall bid the poor and neglected to our Christmas feast; but I know that you want liberty to seek your own amusements, children, so be off now until dinnertime." 
                
               "It is too cold to play out of doors," said Ellen; "let us go up to the large back attic, and enjoy ourselves." 
               It was not much of enjoyment where Ellen Crosby was the ruling spirit; for, being naturally imperious, she compelled submission all around or else refused to play. 
               An hour of such amusement was quite sufficient, and tossing down her dolls, the child threw herself into a chair and commenced chatting about the delights of New York. 
               "I wish that you could spend one week at Aunt Hawkesworth's," said the child; "you would find out how tame it is down here in the country. I went to two children's balls when I was there last year, and I just wish that papa would live there; I don't mind being out of town in summer-time, but give me the city in winter." 
               "And do you really like to go to balls?" said Daisy, "and be dressed up like a lady?" 
               "To be sure I do; that's the life for me; you don't know anything about it, you poor little simpleton, living down at that old lighthouse among fishermen's children; you don't pretend to say that you are contented, Daisy?" 
               "Yes I do, Ellen, for it is that station of life in which God has placed me, and I ought to be contented tented; if I could, I wouldn't wish to live like those who forget God." 
               "I've heard Aunt Emily say that she is sure you belong to the higher classes, Daisy; and I could never be contented with such a lot, I am sure, if I were you." 
               "I do not belong to such a class now, Ellen; for Aaron and Margaret Gilbert are all the parents that I know." 
               "Hasn't Aunt Emily offered to take you to Oak-dale and educate you, Daisy?" 
               "Yes, Ellen, that is so, but you don't think that I could grieve my dear old friends by forsaking them." 
               "And so you mean to spend your life with fishermen at the old lighthouse, Daisy?" 
               "I don't think about the years to come, Ellen; I only try to do what is right from day to day, and I know that it is right now for me to stay at the lighthouse." 
               Ellen Crosby could not understand such a decision, and humming a light song tune, passed out of the room, leaving Daisy alone with here new book. 
               She was soon wholly engrossed by the interesting story, and as she perused its pages it seemed to answer questions that had been agitating the little girl for some months past; for here she was learning how she could be a ministering child of good to others, not by doing woman's work, but in her daily walks, seeking to bless those among whom her lot was cast. 
               The week flew by, and Daisy was quite ready to return to her humble home. 
               Ernest was her companion, and in the bottom of the sleigh were a fine turkey, a bag of cranberries and two mince pies, for Miss Emily had determined that there should be a bright New Year's day at the lighthouse. 
               "Happy New Year, grandpa!" said the child, as Aaron lifted his pet out of the sleigh; "I've had a lively visit, but I'm glad to be back again." 
               Lifting out the bag of cranberries and the mince pies, she ran into the house, while Ernest followed with the turkey. 
               "See, grandma! what Miss Emily has given me," and she turned around gayly to show her winter costume to the listener. 
               "Here, too, is such a wonderful book, all about children doing good in the world; it seems such little things that they did, and yet they made so many people happy; I think I shall learn a great deal from this beautiful story." 
               "What is it called, Daisy?" 
               "Ministering Children,' grandma; is not that a pretty name?" 
                
               Margaret thought that was just what Daisy was at the humble lighthouse-a minister of good. 
               She had not been long at home ere we find her passing around among the fishermen's huts, scattering the holiday gifts that Miss Emily had sent to the poor people, truly a ministering child to them, and as such they blessed her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               TWO HELMSMEN. 
               DAISY has reached her tenth year-six years since the angry waves cast her upon the bosom of Margaret Gilbert; the angel of Providence weaving the tissues of her spiritual life in this humble home, and she unconsciously fashioning her beautiful web of faith and love among the cottages on the shore. Strange mystery of human life! how marvelously move its silent looms! 
               But there are other lives, thousands of miles distant, intimately woven with hers, and to those we will turn our thoughts. 
               In a far-off land, it is also Christmas eve in a manor-house of England-a genial season in the old country, kept alike in drawing-room, hall and kitchen. 
               All the family-rooms are decorated with holly and other evergreens, the halls are brilliantly illuminated, and from every window shine out the lights of Christmas eve. 
                
               It is a joyous scene to visitors arriving at Ash-ton Park to join in the festivities, especially to the Harcourts, who are driving up the long avenue of branching trees, now nearly stripped of their foliage. 
               "The hall looks inviting, mamma," said Charlotte Harcourt; "I always like to spend Christmas here; don't you, Matilda?' 
               "Yes indeed," was the quick reply; "Uncle Ash-ton keeps up the old holiday in fine style, and Isabel always gets such handsome presents." 
               "It is not what it was once, girls," said the mother; "your uncle has never recovered from the shock of his wife's shipwreck, and these seasons always bring some degree of sadness now." 
               "Were they all lost?" inquired Charlotte. 
               "That was the report, my dear, and in that terrible storm the sea engulphed both wife and child." 
               "It is better for Isabel," said Matilda. 
               "Better to be without a sister! who put such a thought into your head, child?" 
               "Aunt Sophia often says so; you know that Isabel is her darling pet, and she says that she will be the heiress of Ashton Park now." 
               "A very improper suggestion, my child; I hope that I shall never hear it again." 
               "Hark! mamma," said Charlotte, opening the carriage window; "there are the Christmas bells!" 
               And from out the belfry of the old parish church pealed out the merry chimes. 
               "We shall never grow tired of that dear old tune," said Matilda, as the sweet song of the shepherds floated upon the winter air. 
               The party are at the door, and the rumbling of carriage wheels has brought Isabel out to welcome her cousins. 
               "Happy Christmas, girls!" said the young lady; "aren't you a little late? I have been looking for you an hour, I am sure." 
               Ushered into the family-room, they were cordially greeted by Mr. Ashton, and his wife's sister, Miss Sophia Carter. 
               Richard Ashton is a fine-looking man of forty, but silver hairs are stealing in among the dark locks, for he has known bitter sorrows, and wears mourning still. 
               Miss Carter is a lady in middle life, haughty in her bearing, but happy to receive the Honorable Mrs. Harcourt as her brother-in-law's guest. 
               Isabel Ashton is a girl of fourteen, tall for her age, with fine dark eyes and hair, and altogether showy in her appearance. 
               The room in which they are assembled is a large, well-furnished apartment, with a deep, walnut bay window, heavy wainscoting of the same wood, with carpet and massy furniture. 
               There are many pictures hanging upon the walls, but there is one that always attracts interest whenever it is seen. It is the portrait of a lovely lady, scarcely past the period of young womanhood; on her lap is a sweet child of three, arid the picture, though dressed with evergreens, has, its symbol of mourning tied with white ribbon, which it has worn for the last six years among the Christmas wreaths. 
               Isabel hurries her cousins off to their room, which adjoins her own, to disrobe and prepare for supper; their attention is soon directed to a picture of the two children hanging upon the wall. 
               "Is that your sister, Isabel?" asked Charlotte. 
               "Yes, it was taken the year before they sailed for America, and is a very excellent likeness." 
               "What company she would be for you, now!" continued the young lady. 
               Isabel made no reply, but endeavored to change the subject. 
               "Wouldn't you like to have a sister?" inquired Matilda. 
               "I don't know, exactly, for now you know that I am the heiress, and if she were here, everything would be shared between us." 
               "But she would have been so lovely," said Charlotte lotte; "I have heard mamma say that she was a beautiful child." 
               "And every one would take more notice of her than of me," replied the young lady. 
               Aunt Sophia had thoroughly imbued the mind of her niece with merely selfish considerations, and Isabel would really not desire the presence of her lovely sister. 
               Mr. Ashton and Mrs. Harcourt are seated together in the family-room, and a shade of sadness is resting upon his fine features. 
               "This will never be a joyous season again, Agnes," said her brother; "every year I miss Ethel more; it was such a happy time when she was here; kitchen and parlor alike rejoiced in her presence, and my little girl would have been ten years old now." 
               "You have a fine child left, Richard Ashton," said Miss Sophia, "and I think that it is time you were beginning to devote your life more to Isabel." 
               "I am not lacking in love, Sophia, but I can never forget the two in their watery grave." 
               Company was beginning to arrive at the Park, and the gayety of young, happy voices jarred upon the master's ear; therefore, as soon as courtesy permitted, he left the entertainment of the guests to Miss Sophia and Isabel, and sought the solitude of his own room. It is full of memories of his lost wife; her dressing-room room is just as she left it-her book of devotion in its usual place, her work-table is under the bay window in the nursery, on which stands the basket with the last piece of work that her' fingers ever touched, the needle there still. Mr. Ashton opened a bureau drawer containing a miniature, arid seated under the gas-light, he studied the lovely features of his wife and child, which seemed to smile upon him as in days gone by. Rising, he entered the dressing-room where the parlor-organ stood, so long his wife's delight. He opened it, and seating himself at the instrument, played some of her favorite music. 
               Richard Ashton was a sincere mourner for his lovely wife; he was a truly moral, conscientious man, but was not a Christian, and no well-grounded hope of reunion in a better world cheered his lonely hours, for his was "the sorrow of the world that worketh death." Returning to the parlor, he mingled with his guests, and after supper all were assembled in the drawing-room to enjoy Isabel's Christmas. 
               It was a bright, cheery room, and spread out upon a large table were the gifts of the season. There were several rich presents from papa, some from Aunt Sophia and several from Aunt Harcourt. 
               Charlotte and Matilda were made very happy by the sight of Uncle Ashton's beautiful gifts, and in his turn he had been affectionately remembered by all. 
               Let us turn our footsteps for a moment toward the servants' apartments, and see what kind provision has been made for their comfort. 
               Mrs. Bond, the housekeeper, presides at the table, and truly it is spread with Christmas cheer. There are several in the household now who had not lived with the former lady. 
               Jacob, the old lodge-keeper, and Betty his wife, are both present, and entertain the company with accounts of former days. 
               "You should have known our dear lady," said the old man, tears standing in his eyes; "she always came among us on Christmas eve, and gave with her own hands the gifts of warm winter garments for each of us, and something smart for the young women; then we had roast beef, goose and plum-pudding for Christmas dinner; she always liked us to attend church on that day, so we made arrangements to go, as many of us as could be spared, for there wasn't one that wouldn't have carried our lady in his arms." 
               Susan, the laundry-woman, was one who had served in Mrs. Ashton's time, and listened to old Jacob with a full heart. 
               "She made a happy Christmas for us all," said the woman; "for don't I remember how she used to gather the children of the parish-school in the hall on Christmas afternoon, and with her own dear hands would give to each a smart hood, a white apron and a warm woolen dress? And she didn't forget that they were youngsters neither, for all the little ones went out with a bag of sugar-plums and a good book, and didn't they bless the dear lady of Ashton Park? I always thought of the Master's feast when I saw her among her people, for she called the poor to hers." 
               Mrs. Bond was one of the most deeply attached, for she had been in the capacity of housekeeper during all of Mrs. Ashton's married life. 
               "It was a weeping time in this room," said the good woman, "when the dreadful news of her loss was brought to us: it was in January, six years ago, and I shall never forget the sorrow of that dreadful week." 
               "How came Mrs. Ashton to go to America?" inquired the chambermaid. 
               "She had a sister married in New York to Mr. Arnold, and she had often wished our lady to visit her; for the last year of her life her health had been delicate, and her physician had ordered a sea-voyage. I shall never forget how kindly she bade us all goodbye," continued Mrs. Bond. "I wish that you could have seen that sweet child, the little Ethel; I am sure if ever there was a lamb of the Saviour on earth, she was one. I can see our dear lady now, with her two children in the nursery every evening, seated in her rocking-chair; it stands by the bay window still; she used to tell them of Jesus and his precious love; somehow, Miss Isabel was not like little Ethel, for she would yawn sometimes and get tired; but the younger one would sit with her eyes fixed-upon her mother's face, and I know that when she bowed at her knee and folded her chubby hands, little Ethel prayed, and Jesus sealed her for his own precious lamb." 
               "What a dreadful blow their death must have been!" 
               "You may well say that; Mr. Ashton has never been the same man since; for a whole year her rooms were closed, and no one entered them but himself, excepting the housemaid who kept them in order. Mrs. Ashton was very fond of playing on the organ, and I have often heard the master playing some sweet, solemn music long after the family had gone to bed." 
               "It is very different now," remarked old Jacob, "for Miss Carter doesn't think much about us poor people, and the master can't do as she did." 
               And thus the servants discussed the character of their former mistress until it was time to close the house for the night. 
               Christmas morning dawned brightly upon the sleepers at Ashton Park, for very early the church-bells for miles around announced the birth-day of our Lord, and according to the custom of the dwellers at the Park, all assembled at church. Good Mr. Tremaine gave a heart-warm Christmas sermon, where fresh evergreens were redolent of that blessed season. 
               Christmas week sped away too fast, and when the company one by one took leave of the Park, Isabel was yawning and listless, for she had no ideas of duties to perform nor cheerfulness to cultivate; and happiness could not dwell in such a bosom. 
               Weeks passed on in the same dull routine; but one morning Mr. Ashton came out of the library with a letter in his hand from America. 
               "I must leave you for a short time, Sophia," said the gentleman; "there is is bad news from my sister, Mrs. Arnold, and I am summoned to come as speedily, as possible." 
               "When will you leave us, papa?" inquired Isabel. 
               "By the next steamer." 
               "Is it not a very stormy season?" inquired Miss Carter. 
               "I cannot wait," was the reply, "for Mary is anxious to see me, and there is no hope of her recovery." 
               Accordingly, in about a week we find Richard Ashton bidding farewell to England, his mental helm directed to New York, thence to return to England. 
               Two helmsmen, however, are at the helm; one pointing to an invalid sister-that is his mental helmsman-the other, shadowy, mysterious, has quite another object in view; and swiftly the bark is speeding him across the broad Atlantic-whither upon the moral chart of Providence? 
               Time will show how strangely the helmsmen are crossing each other's path. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               ANGEL FINGERS AT THE LOOM. 
               DAISY is deeply interested in her new book, for "The Ministering Children" have suggested many a sweet and holy thought to the little girl. 
               The truths of the blessed Bible have taken a deep hold of her heart, and the Spirit of the Master guides the child: here on the sea-shore her piety has found a field; accordingly, we find her day by day scattering her sweet words of faith and love where'er her light footsteps tread. 
               Patty Slocum is always glad to see the child, for many a time she is found helping the tired sister to nurse the baby while mother is busy at her work; and then Daisy has such a pleasant look and so many kind words that Mrs. Slocum says her visits are just like sunbeams in the cottage; surely she is a ministering child in that fisherman's hut. 
               Aaron Gilbert often smiles at the picture seen at the door when the sun is down, for then Daisy gathers her audience, and it is amusing to watch with what eagerness the children listen to her stories as she exhibits the pretty Bible pictures which Miss Emily has given her. 
               The Murphys are always better when Daisy is about, and Neddy White runs out to meet her as soon as he spies her turning the corner. 
               Rosy Gorman sits enchanted with her teacher, and little Billy Maloney claps his chubby hands with baby merriment. 
               Is not Daisy Gilbert a ministering child? and is she not weaving here on this narrow neck of land her silver threads of holy love among the fishermen's children? 
               Daisy is a happy little girl, for it is from the shining threads within that the silver tissue is woven; angel fingers are busy too with the threads of her destiny. 
               The tower of the lighthouse is still an object of great interest to our little girl, for she can never forget what a silent mission it performs in the saving of human life. She often travels up the rough stone staircase that leads to the tower, and watches the old people clean the lamps and fill them; she has learned to fill them too, and was very proud when first successful. She wants to take her turn in feeding the light at night, but hitherto has been refused. 
               But an opportunity is at hand; the old people are unexpectedly called away to a neighboring town to stay all night, and leave directions with Uncle Robert, Aaron's brother, to come and stay with Daisy during their absence; he is to be there at five o'clock. 
               "Now, good-bye, Daisy," said Margaret; "don't be afraid, we shall be at home early in the morning, and Uncle Robert will be here to stay with you." 
               "I am not at all afraid," was the reply; "old Lion is here, and I can easily call upon Mrs. Slocum if anything is the matter; you know that I am a brave little girl, grandma." 
               After their departure, there were indications of a storm, and two of the fishermen's wives came over to see about Daisy. 
               "I'm afraid that we shall have a terrible gale," said Mrs. Slocum, "for the clouds are black and angry." 
               "God rules the storm," said Daisy, "and no harm will come to me without he lets it." 
               The women stayed as long as they could, but at last it was time to go home and prepare their husbands' suppers. 
               "I'm sorry that I can't stay any longer" said Mrs. Slocum. 
               "Don't be uneasy," replied the child; "Uncle Robert will soon be here." 
               But, notwithstanding her brave words, Daisy did feel very lonely when she saw both leave the lighthouse. 
               It was now past five o'clock, but no arrival yet. 
               Daisy took, up her Testament and commenced reading. It comforted her to read of the scene upon Galilee, where Jesus stilled the stormy tempest, for she remembered that the same Blessed One ruled the deep yet. 
               Six o'clock has rolled around, but no Uncle Robert. 
               The storm is hurrying on, the wind rising rapidly; the waves are dashing up against the lighthouse, and the rain is plashing against the window-panes. 
               "It is getting dark," thought Daisy; "I must light the lamp;" and turning to her dog, she said, "Come, Lion, you must take care of me to-night." 
               Together they traveled up the staircase, Lion close by her side, for the sagacious animal seemed to know that there was danger. 
               Daisy performed her task well; then descending, she ate alone her frugal supper, and took her station again by the lantern. 
               By this time the howling of the wind and the roaring of the waves were terrifying to the child. 
               Looking out upon the surging ocean, she said, 
               "It is terrible, Lion; just look at those white caps rushing on; the breakers will be on us soon." 
                
               And Lion answered with a low whine as he laid himself down at Daisy's feet. 
               All night long faithfully she watched the lantern, for she knew that there was danger on the deep. The lighthouse seemed to rock amid the violence of the storm; the pelting rain broke the glass windows, and the water dashing in wet the poor child; but she was steadfast amid the storm, quieting her fears by repeating verses from the Bible and singing sweet hymns of faith and trust. 
               "Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. 
               "He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still." 
               She repeated slowly these comforting words, for the wind was blowing a hurricane and the lighthouse was rocking in the tempest. 
               Daisy remembered the story of one carried away on such a stormy night; it might be so now! The thought was solemn to the little girl, but child as she was, she tried to still the trembling heart by the blessed promises. 
               But hark! there is a gun! It comes booming across the surging sea. Daisy holds her hand upon her heart to still its beating; but hark! there is another, and now she knows that they are minute guns. 
               She has succeeded in keeping the lantern bright, for no angry wave has yet reached the glass to endanger its safety. 
               The night wears on, the storm raging still; how Daisy longs for morning! She strains her eyes repeatedly, but the sky is clothed in blackness still; at length there seems to be a gradual lull in the angry tempest, and there certainly is now a shadowy glimmer in the eastern sky; she watches it slowly for an hour, and now the gray dawn is really scattering the blackness of the dreary night. Eagerly Daisy watches its progress, and at length her eyes are blessed with the sight of a noble ship riding at anchor off the shore, saved by her feeble efforts. 
               Exhausted, she falls asleep, thinking of the storm and murmuring fragments of sweet hymns in her dreams; doubtless there are heavenly watchers in that lonely tower; for there was a sweet child of God reposing there, and of such it is said in holy writ that "their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." 
               Anxious to return thanks to the lighthouse keeper, the captain, accompanied by several men, row to the shore, and, finding no one below, enter through the I window, and mounting the stone staircase find the child asleep by the side of the faithful dog, whose paw is thrown protectingly around her, as she lies surrounded by broken glass and drenched with water. 
                
               The dog growls at the sight of the strangers, who feel that it would be dangerous to approach the sleeping child. 
               Daisy is murmuring in her sleep, and the words of a sweet hymn are distinctly heard by the spectators: 
                      
                        "God shall charge his angel legions 
                        Watch and ward o'er thee to keep, 
                        Though thou walk through hostile regions, 
                        Though in desert wilds thou sleep." 
                     
                  
                
               The words stride strangely upon the ear of one of the listeners, for he has heard it many a time in a land far off, from lips that had long since been silent. Just then the child awoke, startled by the sight of so many strangers. 
               "Don't be alarmed, little girl," said the captain; "we are all friends, and have come to thank the lighthouse keeper for his care last night." 
               "He is not here, sir," said the child, "but I am looking for him every minute." 
               "Who then tended the lantern through all the storm?" inquired the captain. 
               "It was I, sir; grandfather taught me how to take care of the lamp, and I stayed up here all night." 
               "All alone?" was the quick response. 
               "No one but God and good old Lion," said the child. 
                
               "How came you to be alone?" 
               "Grandfather and grandmother had to go away, and left word with Uncle Robert to come and stay with me; I am afraid that he is sick, for I know, that he would have come if he were not." 
               "Were you not afraid?" said the strange gentleman, who appeared singularly moved. 
               "Yes, sir, sometimes; but then I thought of Jesus, and when I trusted in him I was comforted." 
               "Who are you, child?" continued the questioner. 
               "I am Daisy Gilbert, and I call the good people here grandpa and grandma; and I love them just as if they were my own." 
               "Have you no mother, Daisy?" 
               "No, sir; my mamma is buried here on the shore, under a willow tree; but I shall go to her when I die, for I love the same Saviour that she did." 
               Footsteps were heard hurrying up the stone staircase, and Daisy exclaimed, 
               "There they come!" and in another minute she was folded in the arms of her dear old friends. 
               "Were you here all night alone, my little girl?" inquired Aaron. 
               "All alone, grandpa-only God and Lion." 
               "Did you tend the lantern in that dreadful storm?" 
               "Yes; grandpa; and I am so glad, for it saved a noble ship and here are the gentlemen that have come to thank you." 
               "Did the night seem long, Daisy?" 
               "Very, grandpa; but I sang all the hymns I knew and repeated verses from the Bible; and I prayed to my Father in heaven, and he heard me." 
               "Who is this child, old gentleman?" said the stranger, deeply agitated. 
               "She is not mine, sir, but I could not love my own any more than we love our Daisy." 
               "Where did you meet with her?" 
               "She was cast ashore in a storm six years ago, tied to the dead body of her mother." 
               "In what month, sir?" 
               "In the month of December, in the year 1832." 
               The gentleman was trembling now. 
               "Was there anything upon her person that might identify her parentage?" 
               "There was a locket, on one side of which there was a likeness of a gentleman, and on the other a lock of glossy black hair; a ring upon the finger contained the words, 'From R. A to E. C.,' and the mark upon the clothing was E. C. A." 
               "Bring them quick-quick!" 
               One glance was sufficient, for there were the initials of his own and his wife's name, and the lock of hair brought tears to the strong man's eyes. 
                
               "It is my long-lost child, my darling Ethel!" said the stranger, folding the awestruck child convulsively in his arms. 
               "Papa, my own papa!" murmured the little one, and not a dry eye was there among the spectators of the scene in that lighthouse tower. 
               It was with feelings too deep for utterance that the old people looked on; mingled too were their emotions; who could blame them if the sorrow swallowed up the joy? 
               Now we can answer the question, whither pointed the helm of the vessel that bore Richard Ashton? Not direct to England, but to the rocky coast where he found his long-lost treasure, after the lapse of so many weary years. 
               In company with Daisy, he visited her mother's grave, and read with inexpressible grief the simple record of the wreck. 
               The rest of the day was spent in asking questions of the old people, and listening to their account of Daisy's childhood. 
               "Who have been her companions?" inquired her father. 
               "The children of the fishermen, generally," was the reply. 
               "How then is it that I find her so intelligent and different from the rest?" 
                
               "She has a friend about five miles distant who has taken great pains to instruct Daisy." 
               "What is her name?" 
               "Miss Emily Rutgers, sir. She thinks a heap of our little girl, and for three years has taught her three times a week, coming on Sunday to teach all the children, on Monday to instruct Daisy, and on Wednesday the little girl goes to her." 
               "I must know the lady who has cared for my orphan child." 
               All day, Daisy clung to her newly-found parent, but when the evening came, papa returned to the vessel to obtain one of his trunks, for he had ascertained that the vessel would need repairs ere she set out again upon her voyage. 
               Margaret was sitting in a sorrowful mood in her rocking-chair, and Daisy perched herself upon her lap as was her custom. 
               She laid her head affectionately upon the old woman's bosom, and said, 
               "Don't be troubled, grandma; I shall love you just the same, always." 
               "Yes, Daisy, I know that; but you must leave your old grandma, and what shall I do without my child?" 
               With these words, she burst into a flood of tears, and Daisy knew not what to say to comfort her. 
                
               "Don't cry, grandma," sobbed the child; "I'll coax papa to let me come once a year to see you, and maybe you can come to England some day and live with us." 
               "That can never be, my darling; I shall have to, learn how to live without you." 
               Next morning was Daisy's day to go to Oakdale; and when Ernest drove up with his little carriage, what was hip surprise to discover that Daisy had found Her father, but little joy mingling with the feeling. 
               "This is one of Daisy's friends, I suppose," said Mr. Ashton, laying his hand upon the boy's head. 
               "Yes, sir; for three years I have driven her over to Oakdale, and Aunt Emily has had a great deal of pleasure in teaching your little girl; I don't know what she will say about the prospect of losing her; but step in, sir; she will be glad to make your acquaintance." 
               Miss Rutgers came forward to meet the pupil greatly surprised to see a stranger with the party. 
               Daisy's eyes were beaming with delight as she said, 
               "This is Mr. Ashton, my papa, Miss Emily." 
               "Can this be really true?" asked the lady. 
               "Yes, madam, and what is most singular is the fact that my little daughter's lantern guided the storm-tossed vessel in which I was embarking for England into a harbor of safety." 
               "There has always seemed a marked Providence guiding Daisy's footsteps, and this is the most singular of all; but I believe that she is a dear child of God, Mr. Ashton, and if so, angel fingers have much to do with weaving out her destiny." 
               "She is not Daisy now," replied the gentleman; 
               "Ethel is her name, and as such she will be known in England." 
               "Let her be Daisy Gilbert while she remains at the lighthouse; it would break the old people's hearts to call her anything else; you can have no idea how they love your darling child." 
               Just then Kathleen entered the room. 
               "Here is another of Daisy's friends," said the lady. 
               The warm-hearted girl burst into tears at the certainty that she was to lose her little friend. 
               "And you'll take Daisy from us, sir, will you?" the girl. 
               "I can't help it, my good girl; "said the father; "six years of separation have been enough to endure. I thank you all for your great kindness, but I must have my child." 
               Miss Emily is commissioned to get an outfit suitable for Daisy, and in company with Mr. Ashton and the little girl they visit New York for that purpose. 
                
               Her old friends are not forgotten, and in addition to a sweet picture of their pet, Mr. Ashton has provided several household comforts and a suit of clothes for each, but this is not all that is in the father's grateful heart. 
               Daisy is to be as much as possible at the lighthouse, and therefore returns with Miss Emily; although the child's appearance is much improved, it is a sorrowful token to Aaron and Margaret Gilbert that Daisy is henceforth lifted out of their sphere. 
               "Here is something for you, grandma!" said the child, as she produced the box sent by papa. 
               There were two complete suits of clothing, a box of stockings, the same of handkerchiefs, a pair of spectacles for each, and the lovely picture, a gift from Daisy's own hand; and also a family Bible of clear large print, with Daisy Gilbert's name as the giver. 
               "Look here, grandpa; I didn't know anything about this nice clock; that was good in dear papa; but here's another box, please open it, quick; that is mine and everything in it." 
               It was filled with nice things for the fishermen's children. 
               "Won't I make them happy, grandma?" said the sparkling child. 
               Grandma's eyes glistened as she thought how soon this bright sunbeam would shed its rays upon another hearthstone. 
               Filling her basket, away trudged Daisy among the cottages. 
               "Look, what papa has sent!" said the child, as seated upon a settee at Slocum's door, she proceeded to tumble out tops and balls, kites and dolls among the little ones. 
               Then came the bright picture-books, and leaving the children in an ecstasy of delight, she ran home to bring the more valuable gifts of cotton calico and flannel. 
               "Papa sent these to every one that has been kind to me," said Daisy "and I told him to buy a great load, for every one of the people in the Neck had been good to his little girl, and so I am to give all of you a share of these goods; and when I am far away in England, you'll think of me, I hope." 
               Hannah Slocum wiped a tear from her eye as she thought how they would miss "the ministering child" among the huts on the shore, and so did all the mothers. 
               "Now come, children, let us all sit down and sing the hymn that I taught you the last Sunday that I was here." 
               And with her bird-like voice she led the music, in which the rude children all joined: 
                  
                      
                        Jesus loves me, this I know, 
                        For the Bible tells me so." 
                     
                  
                
               They were silent for a moment, and then Daisy said, 
               "I am going away soon; very far off to my own home, and I shall never see you any more; but if you will only love and follow the blessed Saviour, we shall meet again in the happy land; good-bye, now; I'll see you again before I go; but I must hurry back to grandma." 
               Kathleen is full of sorrow at the thought of parting, and seeking a private opportunity she is disclosing a plan that has been floating in her mind ever since the discovery of Daisy's father. 
               "You'll want a maid, won't you, miss?" said the girl. 
               "I don't know what papa will think about that." 
               "Won't you coax him to take me to England?" 
               "What will Miss Emily say?" was the response. 
               "She is willing, for I shall never be any use here when you are gone, Miss Ethel." 
               Daisy started at the mention of her new name, and said, 
               "Why do you call me by that name, Kathleen?" 
               "Because I want to get used to it, for I am going to be your maid, and nothing else." 
                
               "I'll ask papa, Kathleen; I should like to take you with us." 
               In a few days Mr. Ashton returned to the lighthouse, his preparations all made for a speedy return. 
               It is the last Sunday at the old church, and Mr. Edmunds has given the child his parting blessing and the gift of a volume of daily texts. 
               "Think of me when you learn them, my child," said the good man; "they are precious dew-drops, Daisy." 
               It is the last day at Oakdale too, and Daisy thought that the little room where she had pursued her studies with Miss Emily had never looked so pleasant as through the glass door she saw the familiar objects. 
               Silently taking her hand, Miss Rutgers led Daisy in, and closed the door. 
               The sweet fragrance of flowers stole in through the windows of the conservatory; the canary trilled one of its merriest songs, but even that was sad to Daisy. 
               "We have had some pleasant hours here, haven't we, dear?" asked the lady. 
               "I shall never forget them, Miss Emily, for most that I know of God, and heaven, and the blessed Saviour, I have learned here." 
                
               "You have learned to love Jesus, Daisy, haven't you?" 
               "Yes, Miss Emily, better than any one on earth." 
               "You are going into new scenes, Daisy; it has 'been nearly six years since you left your home; great changes may have taken place; they have looked upon you as dead for all that time; you have one sister left; but she may not be glad to see you return to share her inheritance." 
               "That can't be, Miss Emily; I should be so glad to see her if she had been away so long." 
               "Ask your heavenly Father to guide you, Daisy, and to help you to live among your newly-found relatives as a Christian child, remembering, wherever you go, that you have something to do for your God and Saviour; you are yet a little girl, but you are a daughter, and must render obedience to your earthly parents; you are a sister, and must be kind and loving to that dear relative; you are a niece, and must respect the one who takes your mother's place as you would that parent were she on earth." 
               "I will try, dear Miss Emily, for already I am longing to see them and be with them; but I hope that they will love me." 
               "Here are your books, Daisy; you must leave them with me as memorials of my little pupil; there are your last copy and your last drawing lesson; they are very dear to me, and will be put away with my treasures when you are gone." 
               Daisy was weeping now, for very sweet and tender had been the hours spent in that cheerful study. 
               "Here is my picture, Miss Emily," said the child; "shall it hang up here?" 
               "Yes, dear, just over your desk; and here is mine; I had it taken for you in New York." 
               "I must go now, Miss Emily; papa is waiting for me at the lighthouse, for we leave to-morrow morning." 
               "God bless you, my little darling," said the lady, as, folding Daisy in her arms, she pressed the last kiss upon her pale cheek. 
               Ernest was at the door with the pony-carriage, and Daisy stepped in and quietly took her seat. 
               They sat in silence for some minutes; at length Ernest spoke. 
               "This is our last ride, Daisy; I shall miss you so very much; won't you write often?" 
               "I have promised Miss Emily to write once a month at least, I shall be so anxious to hear from you all." 
               "I thought that I had a sister, Daisy, who would be with us always; it seems very hard to give you up." 
               "Perhaps you may come to England some time, Ernest; you know that a great many young men go to Europe." 
               "I hope that I shall, for Aunt Emily has sometimes hinted that when I have completed my education, we both shall go." 
               "Then you'll come to Ashton Park, and we'll go to all the beautiful places together, and up to London to visit the grand churches, and the Zoological Gardens, and the elegant parks; and I guess that we can all go to see the good Queen, for papa has relations among the nobility, and we can all be introduced together." 
               Ernest smiled at Daisy's enthusiasm, but the same thoughts had passed through his own mind, and the fancy comforted both of the young dreamers. 
               Notwithstanding these day-dreams, the parting was very sad between the two, and the ride back to Oak-dale was dreary enough to Ernest Rutgers. 
               A crowd of little ones came to take leave of Daisy the night before her departure, and the mothers all had some tale to tell Mr. Ashton of her gentleness and kindness at the fishermen's huts. 
               Truly had she woven her silver threads among these humble people; and many a time would her sayings and doings be quoted by them in their lowly cottages. 
               But the saddest parting was yet to come, and the father felt as if he could scarcely bear to see the grief of the occupants of the lighthouse. 
               "Here is my Bible, grandma," said the child, as she brought put her book marked everywhere by her fingers. 
               "I thought that you would like to use it when I am far away; and here is my hymn-book, too, that you may take to church with you." 
               Margaret received them with a burst of grief, as she replied, 
               "There's nothing that I shall value so much." 
               "You will have all my clothes, grandma." 
               "I shall lock them up, Daisy, for I cannot look at them when you are gone." 
               "You'll read my Bible, grandma, for my sake, won't you?" 
               "Yes, Daisy, I promise that." 
               "And you'll take care of my flowers, too, grandma?" 
               Margaret's lips were quivering now, and she could not answer. 
               "If you'll only get ready to meet me in the better land, we'll never part again." 
               But no answer was returned. 
               It was almost a sleepless night at the lighthouse, for Aaron and Margaret were too sad to sleep, and spent the dreary hours in recalling all the innocent ways of the sweet child that they were about to lose. 
               By early dawn all were astir, and amid sighs and tears, Daisy bade adieu to the humble home where she had spent so many years of happy childhood. 
               Mr. Ashton had bade farewell to Miss Rutgers, with a most cordial invitation to visit Ashton Park, for henceforth the lady of Oakdale was to be regarded as a valued friend. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               A COLD HEARTHSTONE. 
               DAISY is on the sea, and Kathleen is going to England too, happy in the capacity of maid, to serve her youthful friend. 
               The child is a very entertaining companion to papa; she has so much to tell of the past and ask of the future. 
               There is one change that the little girl must get accustomed to, and we find Mr. Ashton introducing the subject as soon as they had really left the lighthouse. 
               "You know, my dear, that you are Ethel now, for that is your real name." 
               "Yes, papa, I know; but Daisy will always be sweet to me, for it was the name given to me by my dear old grandparents." 
               Every day Mr. Ashton observed Daisy occupied with the same little book in the early morning hours. 
               "What have you there, Ethel?" asked her father. 
               "It is a book of precious texts, papa; Mr. Edmunds munds gave it to me before I left the Neck, and I learn one every day." 
               "What have you learned to-day?" 
               "A beautiful verse, papa, about the righteous." 
               "Repeat it, Ethel." 
               In sweet, reverent tones the child recited, 
               "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High, shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty." 
               "Where do you find these words, Ethel?" 
               "In the Psalms of David; it must be a great blessing to know that the promise belongs to one's self, papa." 
               "Don't it belong to everybody that trusts in God?" 
               "Miss Emily says that the promises belong only to the righteous, papa." 
               "And who are the righteous, Ethel? Is not every man who tries to do his duty to his fellow-men counted righteous?" 
               "I have been taught that those who truly believe in Jesus, and are new creatures, are the only righteous." 
               "Is Miss Emily one of that kind, Ethel?" 
               "Yes, papa, and Mr. Edmunds, too; they are the true servants of our dear Lord and Saviour, and I love them for his sake." 
                
               "How is it with your old friends at the lighthouse, Ethel? are they of that kind, too?" 
               "I think that they are trying to be, papa; when I first went to the lighthouse, they did not seem to care about the things of God; they were kind and good to me always, but, they never prayed then, nor read their Bible, nor went to church." 
               "How is it now, Ethel?" 
               "They are different now, papa; they love to hear the Bible read, and they pray and go to church now Mr. Edmunds thinks that they will become real Christians. I could not Dear to think of anything else, papa, for there is a long, long eternity coming, and I want every one I love to be in the blessed land with me for ever." 
               "What has made you think so much about these things, Ethel?" 
               "Why, you see, papa, I always knew that I had no papa and mamma like other little girls, and I wanted to know that I had a good strong Father up in heaven, that would be father and mother both to me; and then I had some recollection of my mother's teaching in my English home by the large bay window, when she used to talk to me about Jesus my Saviour." 
               "She used to teach your sister Isabel too, my child; but she seems to have forgotten those days." 
                
               "Then there was a great deal at the seashore to make me think of; God; the grand ocean and the terrible storms told me how great he is; but when I knew Miss Emily, and learned to read the precious Bible, it told me everything that I wanted to know; and I could never be happy after that, papa, until I felt that I was his own dear child." 
               Mr. Ashton sat silent for some time, and so did Ethel; at length she spoke: 
               "Tell me all about home, papa; I do so want to know how it looks." 
               "Well! to begin with, there is a fine park of grand old trees, Ethel." 
               "It will seem strange to me, papa, for there are none on the shore, and a very few back of the beach." 
               "Then there is a fine old manor-house and a rookery, and some fine deer roving about in the park." 
               "Are there any flowers, papa?" 
               "Yes, my dear, we have a conservatory and a lovely garden, where you will see a great many flowers that you have never looked upon in America." 
               "Is there a church near the Park, papa?" 
               "Yes, Ethel, there is an old parish church almost covered with ivy, and just before the pulpit is the family vault of the Ashtons, where several generations deep; the road that leads to the church is very shady, and you will see a different appearance from what you have been accustomed to in America." 
               "How different, papa?" 
               "The fields are divided by fences there, but in England we have hedges; and when the hawthorn is in bloom, nothing can be more lovely than a walk to Skipton church along the green lane, especially in the spring-time, amid the sweet perfume of the white blossoms." 
               "Who is the minister, papa?" 
               "Mr. Tremaine, a most excellent man, and one who was a devoted friend to your dear mamma; he misses her very much, for all the benevolent operations of the parish looked up to her as the head; he will love you, my little Ethel, for your mamma's sake, that I know." 
               "I'll try to learn fast, papa, and then when I am a young lady, I will take mamma's place." 
               "It will be some time before you can do that, Ethel." 
               "Perhaps not, papa, for I read a book in America, called Ministering Children and you don't know how much they did for poor people." 
               "And so you mean to be like these, Ethel?" 
               "Will I find many friends at the Park, papa?" 
               "First of all, I will name Mrs. Bond, our faithful housekeeper; she has lived with us ever since we were married, and grieved for your mamma as though she were her own child," 
               "Have I not an aunt, papa?" 
               "Yes, Ethel, there is your mother's sister, Aunt Sophia; I hope you will be a good, obedient child to her." 
               "And there is my dear Isabel, papa; how glad I shall be to find my sister! does she know that I am coming?" 
               "I wrote as soon as I could convey a letter home, but I am not sure that they will get it before we reach the Park." 
               "How old is Isabel, papa?" 
               "About fourteen now, and quite tall for that age." 
               "I am afraid that she will think me a very little girl; how does she look, papa?" 
               "She has very fine dark eyes, a clear brunette complexion and a profusion of rich brown hair." 
               "Does she like to play, papa?" 
               Mr. Ashton smiled at the idea of his proud and womanly Isabel deigning to join in childish plays; for she had been so long domesticated with her Aunt Sophia that all mere playthings had been put away for two or three years. 
               "I must tell you of two more, Ethel; there are old Jacob, the lodge-keeper, and Betsy his wife; they will be among your most devoted friends." 
                
               Ethel was becoming daily more and more excited at the thought of her new home, for new it all seemed to her. 
               Early one morning she heard an unusual stir upon deck, and papa taking her by the hand, directed her attention to the land, for it was now in full view. 
               "Look, Ethel! there are the white cliffs of Dover." 
               "And that is England, papa, my home. I wonder if they are thinking of me at the lighthouse." 
               She need not have asked the question, for every morning and evening the old people traced what they supposed to be her course upon the ocean. 
               "Farther and farther off, Aaron," said Margaret. "I suppose that Daisy is at home now; I don't think that I shall ever get over her loss, but get down her Bible, and let us read our chapter." 
               Aaron took out his spectacles and read the portion for the day. 
               "See, wife! here are the precious marks," and with a trembling voice the old man read, 
               "And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever." 
               "That must mean the Holy Spirit, Aaron," said his wife; "if ever he dwelt in any human being, it was in our Daisy." 
                
               "Do you know, wife, that I have not given up the hope of seeing our dear child again in this world?" 
               "How can that be, Aaron?" 
               "I don't know, now, but I will keep the hope, and that will comfort me." 
               Daisy is on the road to the Park now, and is full of artless remarks at all that she sees and hears; everything is so strange and new. 
               "We are almost at home," said papa, as the carriage rolled along over the fine roads through a country which to Daisy seemed like a lovely garden. 
               "There is Skipton church," said her father, pointing to a steeple just appearing above the trees; "and there is the rectory, Ethel, and the good rector sitting out upon the front porch." 
               He recognized Mr. Ashton as he passed, and greeted the traveler with a heart-warm smile of welcome. 
               But they are at the lodge now, and stand for one minute at the massive stone gate. 
               Ethel had just time to admire the large antlers that surmounted the columns, when old Jacob made his appearance. 
               "Welcome home, your honor!" said the lodge-keeper, taking off his hat, at the same time glancing wonderingly at the two young persons in the carriage. 
                
               "Do you know this little girl Jacob?" said the master. 
               A strange look of bewilderment passed over his face as he replied, 
               "It is the image of our lost lady, sir; who can it be?" 
               "It is my own little Ethel, Jacob, saved from the dreadful wreck." 
               "God be praised for all his mercies!" was the answer, as advancing to the carriage door, he kissed the little outstretched hand. 
               Kathleen was a deeply-interested spectator of this scene. 
               "Did not my sister get my letter?" inquired Mr. Ashton. 
               "I think not, sir; it will be a great surprise to them at the hall." 
               "Good-bye now, Jacob; I will tell you all about that dreadful night, soon; but keep a watch at the gate; the remains of your lady are on the road, and will be here in a couple of hours; have them placed in the pavilion near the house, Jacob." 
               Driving rapidly up the avenue, they were soon at the entrance to the house, Ethel trembling with excitement. 
               Miss Carter had heard the rattling of carriage wheels, and glancing for a moment out of her window dow, to her amazement Mr. Ashton stepped out; but who is with him? 
               There is a little girl of ten, and an humbler one of sixteen; the younger cast an eager glance up at the open window, and Miss Carter called Isabel to her side. 
               "Where is my daughter?" said the father, as the waiter opened the hall door. 
               Ere he received the answer, Isabel and her aunt hastened down to meet the master. 
               "Dear papa, when did you land? we have not heard of your arrival." 
               "I hurried down as fast as I could, for I have brought a long-lost treasure home, Isabel," 
               Ethel was standing with downcast eyes, and Mr. Ashton continued, 
               "This is your sister, Isabel; welcome her to Ashton Park." 
               The girl looked bewildered, and Aunt Sophia incredulous. 
               "How can it be possible, Richard?" said the lady; "six years have passed since that day, and you have been imposed upon by some stranger." 
               "Look at the perfect likeness, Sophia, and if that is not enough, here is the locket that Ethel wore when cast ashore; and here, too, is the ring." 
               The miniature and the initials were proof enough, for Miss Carter recognized them both as the property of her deceased sister. 
               It came upon the lady with astounding power, but she could no longer refuse the embrace of her niece, who stood waiting for a welcome in her father's halls. 
               Isabel pressed a cold kiss upon the pale cheek of the child, that sank like lead down into her warm heart. 
               But Mrs. Bond is coming; she has heard the news, and with a gush of joyful tears folds the sweet child in her arms. 
               "The very image of our lady," said the housekeeper, as, holding her off, she seemed never tired of gazing at the little girl, who stood there asking for love with her eloquent dark eyes. 
               "And who is this?" inquired Mrs. Bond, as she looked at Kathleen, standing bashfully near the door. 
               "She lived on the shore near where I was wrecked, ma'am, and we were great friends; Kathleen couldn't bear to have me go away, and so papa brought her home to England for my maid." 
               "Come, Ethel," at length said her sister, "you must want to change your clothes, and I will take you to my room until your own is ready." 
               Miss Carter remained behind to hear her brother-in-law's account of the discovery of his child. 
                
               As soon as Isabel could leave her sister, she hurried to her aunt, and good Mrs. Bond took charge of Ethel. 
               "I thought that they would all be so glad," said Ethel; "but I don't know how it is, Mrs. Bond, no one seems pleased, but papa, and you, and old Jacob." 
               "They have thought you dead so long that I suppose you seem almost like a stranger, Miss Ethel." 
               "They don't seem so to me, Mrs. Bond; I loved them all before I saw them." 
               Mrs. Bond has taken her to her mother's apartments; there is a dressing-room on one side of her chamber. 
               The child looked around bewildered, and with folded hands and dreamy look seemed busily linking the threads of memory. 
               Rising, she examines the work-table, her mother's books of devotion, her work-basket and parlor organ, then opening the door, she is in the nursery; there is a smiling look of recognition, as she sits down in the large bay window, and looks out upon the landscape; for here are objects whose shadows had visited her often in the long years of separation. 
               "There is the rookery, Mrs. Bond; I remember now how I used to come here in the evening and watch the rooks hurrying to their roost; I can hear them cawing now." 
                
               "Yes, many a time I have held you on my lap while you listened to the harsh noises that they made." 
               "And there is the steeple of the old church too. I didn't remember anything about it as we rode by, but I recollect now how I used to watch it when the sun shone upon the gilt ball on the top at sundown." 
               Mrs. Bond wondered as she listened to the child, for she had forgotten how long the images formed in infancy upon the brain, chase each other on the kaleidoscope of memory. 
               The old lady opened another door, and Ethel thought that she had seen this room before. 
               But here is an open closet, and Ethel is soon absorbed in overhauling a number of old toys, recognizing among the ruins, Polly, her favorite rag doll. 
               "Your father would not allow one of those to be thrown away, miss," said the old lady, "for he said that they were all yours, and must be kept in memory of his little girl." 
               But the pictures on the wall interested Ethel most, for these were the stories so deeply impressed upon her infant heart by her mother's lips. 
               The tales of Bethlehem, of Nazareth, of Bethany, of Calvary and Olivet, all hung upon the walls, and feint visions of each were rising up before the child in the old nursery. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               DISAPPOINTMENTS. 
               ISABEL is closeted with her aunt; thoughts are passing through both minds which they are scarcely willing to utter to each other, but there is a mental consciousness that requires no language. 
               "Strange that she should have been so long away before she was found," said the aunt. 
               "It will make a great difference for me, Aunt Sophia." 
               "Yes, Isabel, in every way; she is a beautiful child, and your father is very fond of her on account of her resemblance to your mother." 
               "It seems a pity she did not stay there, aunt," said her niece; "they are all very much attached to her, and I suppose that she was very happy." 
               "She has been so long away among vulgar people that it will give me a great deal of trouble to teach her lady-like habits." 
               "Mamma's jewels will have to be shared now," continued the girl; "I should have had them all if this child had not returned." 
               "It is a great pity, Isabel, for this little girl will never be a stylish lady, I am sure, and they will all be thrown away upon her." 
               "I suppose that I must try to be civil to her," said the young girl, "or papa will be angry." 
               But a sad duty remained for the family, and on the day following the arrival, the mortal remains of the lady of Ashton Park were committed to the family vault in the presence of the household only, and there, with her husband's, ancestors, she sleeps until the resurrection. 
               After the services, Mr. Tremaine sought for the stranger, and laying his hand upon Ethel's head, he said, reverently, 
               "May the spirit that dwelt in that departed saint rest upon you, my dear child." 
               Ethel's heart was deeply touched, as she replied, 
               "That is what I pray for, Mr. Tremaine; just to be like my dear, mamma." 
               But there are trials in Ethel's path, and many a jagged thread appears among the silver tissues of her beautiful web of life. 
               She soon finds that there is no answer in Isabel's heart to respond to the deep affection of her own, but by every innocent device she seeks to win her sister's love, but all in vain. 
               There was a dark veil between the two, and Isabel's hand had hung it there. 
                
               Kathleen was a quiet but shrewd observer of matters at the Park, and understood very well how her favorite was regarded; accordingly we find her communicating her thoughts to Mrs. Bond. 
               "Miss Ethel is not welcome here, ma'am," said the girl, "but Miss Isabel is not fit to wipe her shoes; she's the rale little Christian, and if ever I had any good thoughts in all my life, Miss Ethel taught them to me in that cottage on the Neck." 
               "It will all come right by and by," said Mrs. Bond, for she knew that there was One above watching his own lamb. 
               For the sake of appearances, the two sisters were much together, and Ethel's artless account of her humble life on the Neck often excited Isabel's scorn. 
               "I wish that you knew grandpa and grandma Gilbert," said the child; "I am sure that you would like them." 
               "Don't be so ridiculous, Ethel, calling such low people by the title of relations; you are not there now, and there is no need of keeping up such recollections." 
               "I should be ashamed of myself, Isabel, if I could ever forget how good they were to me; I had a happy life at the old lighthouse, although they were so poor; they were father and mother to me when I thought I was an orphan." 
                
               "I heard papa say the other day that he intended to settle a comfortable income on the old people; so that I think you might as well drop the name by which you call them" 
               "Never, Isabel; I could not be so bad as that." 
               There was a wide gulf between the sisters, which Ethel strove in vain to cross. Isabel shunned all her advances to intimacy, and very frequently went out to spend the day with young friends, leaving Ethel quite alone. 
               The Harcourts have heard of the new arrival, and are among the visitors now at the Park. 
               They are struck with Ethel's beauty and simplicity, but often laugh at her primitive ideas about her early associations. 
               "I tell you what, Isabel, I shouldn't like such a rival as Ethel," said Charlotte Harcourt; "when she makes her appearance in society, she will create a stir, for she is quite out of the common order of young girls." 
               "I wish that she had stayed with her old grandparents; she is not fit for the society that she will meet at the Park." 
               "I don't see as you do," said Matilda, "for I have watched Ethel closely, and I have never seen her forget any lady-like propriety yet; I wonder how she learned such manners on the seashore?" 
                
               "They had a friend called Miss Rutgers; I presume that she taught her all that she knows of politeness," was Isabel's reply. 
               It is Sunday morning now, and Ethel is early dressed for church, but is surprised to meet no one at the breakfast-table, although it is past nine o'clock. 
               One by one the family drop in, but papa is in his dressing-gown and slippers, and Miss Carter and Isabel both in deshabille. 
               "What time must I be ready for church, papa?" inquired the child. 
               "About ten o'clock," was the reply; "but how will you find the family pew, Ethel?" 
               She turned a look of surprise on Mr. Ashton's face, as she timidly inquired, 
               "Are you not going, papa?" 
               "I think not, to-day; I took a long ride on horseback yesterday, and am very tired; perhaps your aunt may go." 
               "I must decline," replied Aunt Sophia; "I have a bad headache." 
               "Then I can go with Isabel." 
               "I shall stay at home to keep Aunt Sophia company," was the sister's reply. 
               Ethel was disappointed, and ate a scanty meal in silence. 
               After breakfast she sought the good housekeeper. 
                
               "What shall I do, Mrs. Bond? I must go to church; no one is going to-day, and I can't find my way alone to the pew?" 
               "I will take you, my dear; would you like to accompany me?" 
               Ethel brightened: 
               "Yes, indeed, Mrs. Bond; I shall be ready in good time." 
               After a pleasant walk along the rural lane, Ethel found herself walking up the aisle of Skipton church, holding Mrs. Bond's hand. 
               All was new and impressive; the lofty dome with its dark rafters, the high walnut pews, some enclosed with curtains; the stained glass windows, and the whole arrangement of chancel, nave and pulpit, so very different from what she had seen in America, for there the simplest forms were used in the church where she attended. 
               She took her seat seriously in the family pew-the sweet low notes of the organ solemnized the child's thoughts; and when the minister in his white surplice arose and devoutly pronounced the opening sentence, Ethel felt as if she were indeed in the presence of the Lord of Hosts; the exhortation followed, and she listened seriously, feeling that it was a call to her to remember for what she had entered God's holy temple; then the confession was so touching, and she could join truly in every penitential word; when the minister followed with the declaration of forgiveness through a Saviour's blood, the silent tears were trickling through her fingers, for the words of the Lord's Prayer expressed her sense of adoption into God's family and the sweetness of communion with her fellow-Christians, as the blessed words "Our Father" trembled on her lips. 
               Mrs. Bond found the places in the Prayer-book, and watched with a full heart the deep devotion of the youthful worshiper by her side. 
               The sermon, too, deeply impressed the child, for it told of adoption into the heavenly family; and here Ethel felt that she was not among strangers, but fellow-pilgrims to the better land. 
               It pleased Mr. Tremaine to see the child there, for well did he know that she would take her mother's place in more ways than in the family pew; for there was that in the sweet young face that spoke to him of the indwelling of the Holy Dove. 
               Many a glance of affectionate interest was cast upon Ethel as she passed down the aisle and out the church door, for the people knew that this was the child rescued from the wreck. 
               "I shall like to go there to church, Mrs. Bond," said Ethel, as they walked home through the green lane; "it all seemed so solemn and sweet, and made me think so much of the dear blessed Saviour, for his name was in every prayer; I took notice of that-and then I sat in mamma's place, too; I thought how often she had sat there, and worshiped 'Our Father in heaven.'" 
               "Yes, dear, she was a faithful member of Skipton church; no weather kept her from its sacred services when she was well." 
               "Did papa use to go to church then?" 
               "Yes, my dear, in the morning; but since our lady's death he has gradually given up going altogether; Miss Carter goes very seldom, and Miss Isabel never without her aunt." 
               Ethel looked troubled, but said no more. 
               Mr. Tremaine is often at Ashton Park now, and is soon aware of the feelings entertained by sister and aunt toward the little girl. 
               His counsels are very precious to Ethel. 
               "You want to be a follower of the blessed Saviour, don't you, my child?" asked the good man. 
               "Yes, Mr. Tremaine, above all things; but sometimes it is hard to keep down bad feelings that come to trouble me." 
               "You must remember, Ethel, that it is little things that make up the Christian life of every one, especially a child; the avoiding of little evils, overcoming of little sins, the keeping down of little selfish ish feelings, the stifling little cross and angry words-this is what we are to avoid, and there is something also to do; the speaking of little words of kindness, the doing of little deeds of forbearance, the exercise of little acts of generosity and patience-these are the silver threads, Ethel, that help to make the tissue of a holy character." 
               "How I do wish to be just such a child, Mr. Tremaine; I would rather be good and holy than to be rich or high as a princess." 
               "Your sainted mother was such a woman, and there is not a home of luxury or poverty anywhere near the Park where her marks may not be seen; she was truly a ministering spirit here-may you be a ministering child," 
               "I have some opportunities at home, Mr. Tremaine, to speak little words of kindness every day to those who do not speak many such to me." 
               "Yes, I know, Ethel, but you must remember Him who 'when he was reviled, reviled not again.'" 
               So the child was comforted; and while Isabel was tormented by the evil passion of envy, Ethel was silently weaving her silver threads around her unconscious sister, filmy and scarcely tangible to aught but angelic weavers who guided the loom of her destiny. 
               Ethel was often grieved when Sunday came to find that she must go alone to the house of God, for Mr. Ashton had acquired careless habits since the death of his wife. 
               Ethel was frequently the only occupant of the Ashton pew; but it was a blessed privilege to the dear child, for she had long esteemed a day in God's house better than time spent anywhere else. 
               The solemn music, the impressive prayers and faithful, earnest preaching were inestimable blessings to Ethel's spiritual taste, and she was always glad when Sunday morning came, that she might hasten to her Father's house. Sometimes she dropped her artless words in her father's hearing, that set him to thinking. 
               "I was so lonesome to-day, papa," said the child, on her return from church; "nobody there but me. I wish that you would go with me, papa." 
               "Perhaps I may on fine days, Ethel." 
               There was a deeply serious look in her face as she replied, 
               "I was looking at the inscription on the marble slab, papa, and I thought how sad it would make mamma if she were here to find no one in God's house but me." Why are you so anxious for me to go to church, Ethel? do you think that will save me?" 
               "No, papa; I know better; but we cannot go to heaven if we do not love God, and if we love him, papa, we will love his house and his holy day." 
               Ethel looked confused at the close of her speech. 
               "I hope that I have not done wrong, papa, in speaking so; but I do love you so dearly that I want to see you always by my side in the house of God." 
               Ethel wound her arms around her father's neck, and laying her head upon his shoulder, received the warm parental kiss that told she had not offended dear papa. 
               Mr. Ashton had ordered the carriage for his accustomed ride, but after dinner, countermanding his order, he accompanied his little girl to church, much to the delight of the good rector and to the surprise of Aunt Sophia and Isabel. 
               Mary Tremaine, the rector's daughter of twelve years old, joined the party after church, and going round to Ethel's side, she said in a low voice, 
               "Won't you go with me to-morrow, to see some of mamma's pensioners; she is not very well, and wishes me to take their monthly allowance from the alms-plate." 
               "What time, Mary, may I expect you?" 
               "I will call for you at half-past three, so be ready." 
               Ethel sought Mrs. Bond early in the morning, with the news of her proposed ramble with the rector's daughter. 
                
               "Can't you fill my basket with some things for the poor people?" said the child, with a pleading look' upon her face. 
               "You must ask Miss Carter," was the reply; "she has the direction of the charities." 
               Ethel knocked at her aunt's door with a trembling hand, and on being admitted was saluted with the question, 
               "What do you want, child?" 
               "May I ask Mrs. Bond to fill my basket, aunt? Mary Tremaine and I are going this afternoon to see some poor people." 
               "Tell her to give what you want, Ethel, but don't trouble me about it." 
               When the good housekeeper had put up her nice little parcels of tea, sugar, oatmeal and some pats of butter for the aged, Ethel's eyes beamed with delight and Mrs. Bond's were filled with moisture, for well she remembered how often she had done the same for her dear lady. 
               "Stop, Miss Ethel; old Mrs. Perkins must have some wine; she is very feeble now, and here are some sweet crackers for the children, and a few apples, which I have laid away." 
               Filling a small bottle, it was packed away with the rest of the good things, and Ethel ran joyfully to the parlor, where Mary Tremaine was waiting. 
                
               Mrs. Bond hurried down to the door with a package in her hand. 
               "Here, Miss Ethel, are some tracts; your mamma always took some with her in her visits; God bless you, my dear child!" 
               Along the green lanes, and over two or three stiles, the children pursued their way, talking about the people that Mrs. Tremaine visited. 
               Presently they found themselves in a short lane I bordered with humble cottages, the homes of the operatives in, a neighboring factory. 
               "First, let us go to Mrs. Perkins," said Ethel's guide, and knocking at the door, a feeble voice within bade them enter. 
               Propped up in a rocking-chair, sat an aged woman, whose pale face and trembling voice indicated the rapid advance of the last messenger; her clean apparel, snow-white cap and apron harmonized well with the perfect neatness of everything in the room. 
               "Sit down, Miss Mary," said the old woman; "but who is this little lady?" 
               "She is one that you will be glad to see, grandmother; it is Miss Ethel Ashton, the child that was saved in the wreck." 
               "God bless you, dear!" said the trembling voice; "if you are as good as your mamma, you will be a blessing here, I am sure; you are the very picture of our lady." 
               "I shall come to see you often," said the child, "if papa and Aunt Sophia will let me; but see! I have brought you something nice to-day." 
               Opening her basket, Ethel brought out her parcels, adding the bottle of wine. 
               "Here are some tracts, too; they are all about our dear Lord, Mrs. Perkins; and I hope that you will be able to read them." 
               "I can, sometimes, my dear; but Nellie, my little grandchild, reads to me every day." 
               From door to door the children passed on, leaving their parcels and their tracts; but, best of all, kind words of sympathy and love, and the mothers blessed the youthful messengers, especially Ethel Ashton, whose sweet face and voice reminded them of their lost lady. 
               Very happy were Ethel's thoughts as she closed her eyes in sleep that night, singing in soft, low tones, 
                      
                        "The mite my willing hands can give 
                        At Jesus' feet I lay; 
                        Grace shall the humble gift receive- 
                        Abounding grace repay," 
                     
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               JOY FOR ETHEL. 
               THE family are at the breakfast-table, and Mr. Ashton enters with a package of letters in his hand; a smile is upon his face as he glances at his youngest daughter. 
               "Here, Ethel, is something for you;" and tears of joy spring to her eyes as she reads the well-known writing of Miss Emily and the imperfect scrawl of Aaron Gilbert. 
               The child has no appetite for breakfast now. 
               "Please excuse me, papa, I do so want to read my letters." 
               "You can go, dear." 
               Up to her own room she hurried with her treasures. 
               Seated on her low chair, Ethel eagerly perused their contents. 
               First she opened that from the lighthouse: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY DEAR DAISY:
                            
                           "We have just finished reading your sweet letter, so full of love for your old grandparents. 
                            
                           "You can never know how we miss our little girl, for we are reminded of you every day and hour. 
                           "There is your bed just as you left it; Lion seems to know that it was yours, for on it he will ever sleep, and we can't drive the poor fellow away; your flowers are all doing well; every day I water them, often with my tears, for I can't help it, Daisy. 
                           "I go to church every Sunday, and have not forgotten my promise to read your Bible daily; and who knows, Daisy, what your childish prayers may do? 
                           "Miss Emily still comes down on Sunday afternoon to teach the children, and Ernest takes the lighthouse in his rides; they are both very good to us, and many a nice thing do they bring that we could never get ourselves. 
                           "Hannah Slocum has lost her baby, and little Patty is growing up to be a comfort to her mother. 
                           "Grand father is not well, often troubled with rheumatism; I don't know how he'll get along iii the winter. You don't say anything in the letter about your home. 
                           "I suppose that it is so different from the old lighthouse that you are afraid it will make us feel bad to know how grand you live. But you needn't, Daisy; we know nothing can change your true warm heart, or ever make you forget us; so when you write again, tell us all about your own room and everything in it, and what you do every day. 
                           "Oh, if I could only see you once more in your little bed at the lighthouse, as you used to lie there in your white night-gown, with your brown curls lying around your neck; but that will never be again, Daisy, and I try to be contented. 
                           "Grandpa says," Give my love to Daisy, and tell her that I am making up a box to send to England, to keep the old lighthouse fresh in her young heart.' 
                           "Good-bye, my darling child; write soon, and pray every night for your faithful old friends, 
                           
                              "AARON AND MARGARET GILBERT."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Then came Miss Emily's letter: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "So far away, and yet every day so near; this is true, my dear child, for there is not an hour in the day in which I do not think of my little pupil. The study was closed some weeks after you left us; and a curtain hung up at the glass door, for I could not bear to look at its emptiness; but now I am beginning to go in every day, to look at the picture that smiles upon me over your own little desk. 
                           "I go down every Sunday to the lighthouse, and my class is prospering; several more are added from the cottages of the people farther from the beach. 
                           "Mr. Edmunds goes down once a month to preach to them, and it is pleasant to see the change gradually going on. You know how the children used to run about all day, so noisy and dirty; now they are dressed clean, and there is a quiet look of Sunday all around; the parents come to the meetings, and I hope that they are beginning to think that there is another world beside this to live for. 
                           "You do not say much about Aunt Sophia and your sister, Daisy; I hope that they are kind to my little girl. 
                           "Be very Affectionate to them, dear, for love begets love, and it must be a very hard and depraved heart that resists the continued offices of gentleness and love. 
                           "I hope that you are a ministering child' at Ash-ton Park, for if your heart is really Christ-like, you will be constantly seeking opportunities to do good. 
                           "They may be very little acts, because you are a little girl, but a kind word here, a quiet answer to a peevish remark there, a helping hand to the weary, the gentle closing of a door when Aunt Sophia may be suffering from headache, the reading of God's blessed word to the aged who are unable to read themselves, the singing of sweet hymns around hearthstones where there is scarcely time for aught but toil;-these and hundreds more are the offices of a 'ministering child.' May you be one in that distant home, prays your true friend, 
                           
                              "EMILY RUTGERS.
                            
                         
                         
                           "P. S. Ernest encloses a few lines." 
                         
                      
                  
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY DEAR LITTLE FRIEND:
                            
                           "Three months have passed away since you left us, and I am not yet getting accustomed to do without you at Oakdale. 
                           "It is really tantalizing to go into the study, and see nothing at the desk but your picture. 
                           "I wonder if I shall ever see the real Daisy again. I know that we are friends for life, my little girl, and so I try to do the things that would please you. First of all, I go often to see the old people at the lighthouse, and never without something nice from Aunt Emily's larder. I am sure that you will like that. 
                           "Then on Sunday I always go to the little wagon, to help grandma out and see her seated in our pew; that is right, Daisy, is it not? 
                           "Lion and I are great friends; he always has something from a basket that I carry for him, and we sit together on the shore, and I talk to the old fellow about his playmate; that is pleasant, Daisy, is it not? I know that it is to me. 
                           "Then I remember that it is hard for grandpa sometimes to mount that high step-ladder, for he often has the rheumatism, and so I have hired Johnny Maloney to go over every day to feed the lantern when Aaron is too stiff. That pleases you, Daisy, don't it? 
                           "When I go into town, I get something for the little ones on the shore, and they are beginning to run after me just as they used to do after you; so you see that I am trying to fill your place. 
                           "I am very cheerful, Daisy, because I am pretty sure that some day I shall be in England, and then we shall have the good old times all over again. 
                           "How time is flying! Here am I, past seventeen now, and before many years pass away I shall be a man, and then must choose what I shall be; whatever that may be, may my life be spent in my Saviour's service. Write soon, I am so glad to hear from you. Good-night, Daisy: remember in your prayers your true friend, 
                           
                              "ERNEST RUTGERS."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               These letters were carried about by the child for many days, and were really sweet messages from the land afar off. Aunt Sophia had not yet forgiven Ethel for interfering with the inheritance of her pet niece; and consequently all her feelings partook of the sour nature of discontent. 
                
               Ethel is very fond of flowers, and never neglects her visit to the garden, where she gathers her bouquets to ornament the drawing-room. 
               One morning she is at her graceful employment, while Isabel and her aunt are at the window watching her movements. 
               They cannot deny that Ethel is charming, but the thought is wormwood to both. She has just plucked a lovely moss-rose, and holding it up, calls out, "Would you like to have one, Isabel?" 
               "I don't care much; it is a pity to spoil the bush." 
               "Papa said that I might cut them, Isabel; it really does the bush good." 
               "Oh yes," said the young lady to her aunt; "papa never denies her anything that she asks for; I believe that he'd give her gold to play with if she wanted it." 
               Unconscious of the remark, the little girl went on culling, and singing one of her sweet hymns, and after she had done her work, with a smiling face she arranged her pretty bouquets, and stealing quietly up to her aunt's room, she placed one of the sweetest on her dressing-table, and left the same graceful offering on her sister's. 
               Ethel met her relations at the dinner-table, her eloquent face dimpling with innocent pleasure. 
               She waited for some time for some notice of her lovely flowers, but the meal passed almost in silence by the two, Ethel and her father keeping up the conversation. 
               As Aunt Sophia arose, she remarked, coldly, 
               "Those were among the finest of the flowers, Ethel; I wouldn't cut so many another time." 
               The child was really pained at the reception of her love-offering, but keeping down the sob and repressing the tears, she obeyed papa's request to sing some of her childish songs. Seating herself at the piano, she entertained him for an hour with her simple music, so sweet, so touching. 
               When Ethel had left the room, Mr. Ashton remarked to her aunt, 
               "She has a lovely voice, Sophia; I intend that it shall be cultivated to the utmost." 
               "It is not very strong," was the reply, "and there are many girls of her age with much finer voices." 
               "Our organist says that he has seldom heard anything more exquisite than Ethel's high notes; years will increase the depth of the minor notes." 
               "She is a piece of perfection in your eyes, I know, Richard; I often feel for Isabel." 
               "Feel what, Sophia?" answered the gentleman, really displeased; "I fear that the feeling is a most unworthy one, and that Isabel's mind too is poisoned against her sister." 
                
               Miss Carter rose haughtily and left the room, and Mr. Ashton sent for little Ethel to join him in the drawing-room. 
               There have been many visitors at the Park since the strange arrival, and all are greatly interested in Ethel, not only on her own account, but the circumstances of her life have thrown around the child all the interest of romance. 
               Mrs. Boss and her two daughters are among the guests to-day. 
               When the young people had left the drawing-room, the lady remarked, 
               "What a lovely child that is, Miss Carter! She is the perfect counterpart of her mother." 
               "Do you think so?" coolly replied the, listener. "For my part, I do not think that she will bear any comparison to Isabel when they are grown up, for Ethel will be a small, unpretending girl, but Isabel is queenly even now in her appearance." 
               Isabel was equally tormented by Helen Ross. 
               "What a sweet sister you have found!" said the young lady: "how glad you must have been to find that she was still alive!" 
               "She is not much of a companion for me," said the young girl, "for you know that she is four years younger, and very childish for that age, a mere baby, as you can see yourself." 
                
               "I wish that she were my sister," replied Helen. "Anna is so different; she is always picking at me." 
               These remarks only increased Isabel's dislike of Ethel, for everywhere she seemed to be in her way. 
               Having so little of Isabel's society, she had taken quite a fancy to Mary Tremaine, and the good rector was delighted to welcome her one afternoon out of every week as a guest at the rectory. 
               Papa had bought Ethel a pet dog, too, and Beppo soon learned to love his young mistress; so in the absence of youthful companionship at home, Ethel cultivated the friendship of her dumb friend, and the intelligent animal seemed really to comprehend his young lady's instruction. 
               Beppo was always at her side; indeed it was a hard matter to keep him out of her sleeping-room, and the first thing in the morning as soon as he was released was to seek her chamber, and scratch at the door for admittance. 
               Ethel's birth-day is here, when she will be ten years old, and papa celebrates it by inviting the young people of the neighborhood to rejoice with him over his newly-found treasure. 
               Helen and Anna Ross are among the guests, and are both in close attendance upon Ethel; but she is sorely pained when she hears the two disagreeing whenever they meet. 
                
               Isabel is much annoyed at the idea of a birth-day party, and takes but little interest in the proceedings, giving as her excuse the fact that these children are all too young for her associates, and taking a book, we find her seated in the bay-window of the dining-room, leaving Ethel to do the honors. 
               The little girl has made one request, and that is, that twelve of the poorer children may be allowed to come to the Park to receive their share of her birthday party. 
               Accordingly, at five o'clock, old Jacob, the lodge-keeper escorts the company up to the hall, and smiling on the front piazza, stands our little girl. 
               The bashful children are invited into the family-room, and with her own hands Ethel gives to each one a slice of her birth-day cake, a package of candy, a bunch of flowers and a book. 
               "That's the kind of a party that I like, papa," said the child, "for I know that these little ones never see any such things, and we have so much; and then the little book that I gave them, I hope will do them good." 
               The children looked at the sweet child in her white dress with wondering eyes of admiration, and dropping their rude courtesies, said in bashful tones: 
               "Thank you, Miss Ethel, you are very good; we never saw a birth-day party before." 
                
               Isabel looked on with supreme contempt. 
               "Little 'Lady Bountiful,' I declare," said the haughty girl. 
               Old Jacob escorted them out again, and was amused at the remarks made by the children on their way down the avenue. 
               "Miss Isabel never invited us to none of her grand parties," said Nellie Perkins; "she's a heap too grand for that." 
               "Didn't Miss Ethel look sweet in her white dress?" said Betsy Cheeseman. 
               "Yes; a heap prettier than Miss Isabel in her grand pink silk with all her flounces; she never has nara word for us poor folks." 
               "My mother says that Mrs. Ashton was such a sweet, good lady-I guess Miss Ethel will be jest like her." 
               "I wonder what makes her so different from other little girls?" said the other; "I guess that she must be one of the Saviour's lambs that Miss Gertrude tells us about in Sunday-school." 
               "That's jest the, truth, my little girl," now remarked old Jacob, who had been listening in silence; "Mrs. Bond says if ever there was a ginuine little' Christian, Miss Ethel is one of them; and she shows it in little things and little words, but they do a heap of good in this wicked world." 
                
               And thus the little weaver was fashioning her silver threads of faith and love in this her native land, while the tissues that she had left behind in the lighthouse on the Neck were assuming shape and beauty silently; for thus the spiritual web is fashioned. 
               Mr. Ashton is about leaving home for a short time, and tells the girls that he is preparing a surprise for them. 
               Ethel wonders what it can be. 
               He returns late one evening, and from an upper window Ethel sees him handing a lady out of a carriage, with several trunks already on the piazza. 
               Who can it be? 
               The question will be answered at the supper-table, for seated there is the lady, very much at ease already. 
               She is a cheerful, healthy-looking person, with agreeable manners, and is introduced by papa as Miss Granby, their future governess. 
               At a glance Ethel felt that this lady was one to lean upon, to confide in, to respect; but Isabel saw in the clear, open brow, penetrating eye and calm, self-possessed manner, one to fear if attempting crooked ways. 
               The conversation at the table was easy and pleasant, but there was that about Miss Granby that to Isabel implied a sense of superiority, as an elder and a governess, that she would never allow disputed; consequently, the young lady was silent and cross, but Ethel stole round to her side after supper, and seating herself on a low chair near the governess, took her hand, whispering some kind words, which were heartily responded to in the same low tones by the lady, and thus they became friends; Isabel looking on with supreme contempt. 
               Miss Granby was a person of discernment, and soon discovered Ethel's position in the family circle. 
               Ere commencing her duties we find her in conversation with her future pupils, giving her views of education. 
               "Young girls have strange ideas of a governess," said the lady, smiling, "looking upon them as spies, not friends; tyrants, not guides; now I wish you both to understand what I desire to be to you. I have not come simply to teach a certain amount-geography, grammar and arithmetic-but it will be my higher aim to train two immortals for usefulness on earth and blessedness in heaven; whatever then tends to strengthen the physical or mental powers, to develop the affections, and to educate with reference to the higher state to which we are traveling, with God's blessing, will be my aim." 
               "That is what I want, Miss Granby," was Ethel's reply; "I had such a teacher once in America, and I miss her kind instruction so very much." 
               "Remember, my dear girls, that everything in this world has some office to perform; the shining sun, the silver moon, the silent dew, the gentle rain all have some especial mission of benefit to man; if then these unconscious agents are his ministers, how much more should we who are immortal seek to know our sphere, that we too may exercise our ministry!" 
               "I have thought a great deal about it, Miss Granby," said the younger sister, "and I have found out that though I am a little girl, there is a great deal for me to do; for I am a daughter, a sister, a pupil, a dweller among my mamma's poor people." 
               No such serious thoughts ever passed through Isabel's mind, for her great aim was to complete what was called education as speedily as possible, then spend the gay seasons in London among the children of fashion, and at last find herself at the head of some grand establishment, where she might be called the "Lady Isabel," with ho end in view but her own selfish pleasures. 
               Letters come regularly from Oakdale and the lighthouse; the former always full of sweet and holy counsel, the latter, still longing for their lost Daisy. 
                
               The box, too, so long promised, has arrived, and Miss Granby and Kathleen are the only persons who understand Ethel's feelings on viewing its contents. 
               First, there were pictures of the old people, a book filled with sea-weed, gathered by the children of the fishermen, and beautifully arranged by Miss Emily. 
               Aaron had quite a gift, too, of cabinet work, and had made a very neat little walnut work-box, furnished by Margaret's own hands with working utensils. 
               "We know," wrote the old man, "that it is nothing compared with what you have at Ashton Park, but I am sure that you will value it, because grandpa's hands made every bit of it." 
               "Is it not a pretty box, Miss Granby?" said the delighted child; "just think how good and kind my old grandpa is, to spend his time at such tedious work for me!" 
               Isabel mocked at the idea of Ethel's hanging the pictures of those rude people in her room, saying, 
               "I wonder at you, Ethel Ashton; they look just about like two old family servants." 
               "They are more than that to me, Isabel, and I shall never be ashamed of two such dear old friends." 
                
               "You are welcome to your choice for me," was Isabel's reply, as she flounced out of the room; "you forget that you are an Ashton." 
               "I hope that I shall never forget that I am a Carter, too, Isabel." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               REVOLUTION AT THE PARK. 
               MR. ASHTON sees Ethel frequently depressed, and is fully aware of the evil influence exercised over his eldest daughter; he is sorely perplexed, for Miss Carter is really a source of discord in the family circle. 
               More than ever does he miss the society of his gentle wife, for he knows what she would have been in that household. 
               He frequently reads Miss Rutgers' letters to Ethel, and is struck with their elevated piety and sound good sense. 
               "You miss your friend, Ethel, don't you?" said papa, laying down one of these messages. 
               "More every day; she was just like a mother to me; I wish that I could see her." 
               "Have you anything to send to America, Ethel? I am anticipating a visit there very soon, and shall see your friend." 
               "Tell Miss Emily that I do so long to see her; I wonder if she could not be persuaded to pay us a visit when you return?" 
               "I shall write to her very soon, Ethel, and if she encourages me to visit Oakdale, I shall go." 
               The correspondence was opened; Ethel found that letters passed pretty regularly between papa and her friend; at length he announced that his departure was fixed at an early day, and the child wondered what she should do without papa for even two months, for there was strong attachment between the two. 
               "I shall soon be back, Ethel, and then I hope to bring you good tidings." 
               "What, papa? do you hope that Miss Emily will return with you?" 
               "Perhaps so," was the reply; "but we shall see before long; be industrious, my dear; the time will pass very rapidly, and then we shall all be together again." 
               But Ethel was very drooping for days, for Miss Granby was the only real companion that she had in her father's household; and then she had a great dread of the stormy ocean; but she comforted herself with the thought that God was on the deep as well as on the land. 
               A month passed away, and then came a letter from papa, telling the joyful news that Miss Emily was really coming to Ashton Park, not as a casual visitor, but as the gentle mother, to leave dear Ethel no more. 
               Hurrying with her letter to Isabel, with beaming face she told the welcome news: 
               "Aren't you glad, sister, that we shall have a mother once more?" 
               Isabel's countenance fell: 
               "Glad to have a stepmother! Not I, indeed." 
               "You don't know what a lovely person she is; if you did, I am sure that you would love her dearly." 
               "You need never expect me to love one who comes to take away our fortune, Ethel." 
               Repelled from her sister, the little girl sought her friend Miss Granby, and much judicious advice did the good lady give to both daughters-lost upon Isabel, not so on Ethel. 
               News of the arrival has reached the dwellers at the Park, and Aunt Sophia is closeted with Isabel in view of the calamity, for so Miss Carter esteems the expected addition to the family. 
               "Your father ought to be ashamed of himself," said the lady; "here he has a daughter who will soon be a woman, and what does he want with a wife, I should like to know? I suppose that everything will be changed when the new mistress arrives." 
               "She shall not rule over me," said Isabel. "I am now sixteen years old, and am not going to be dictated to by a stranger. Ethel may do what she pleases; she is a mere child yet, and thinks this Miss Rutgers quite a paragon of perfection." 
               It was somewhat of a trial to the little girl to know that even Miss Emily should occupy her mother's apartments, but struggling against the feeling, she accompanied Mrs. Bond when making arrangements for the new lady. 
               "Let me have the work-basket, Mrs. Bond," said Ethel, "and mamma's books of devotion; they all seem sacred to me." 
               "What shall we do with my lady's picture?" said the housekeeper. 
               "Leave it where it is," replied the child; "my new mamma would not like it removed, I am sure." 
               "I wonder if she plays upon the organ," said Mrs. Bond, who was just then dusting the instrument and arranging the music. 
               "I think she does," was the reply; "won't it be sweet to hear it again?" 
               A new Bible was placed upon the dressing-table and on its fly-leaf was written, 
               "From Ethel to mamma;" a sweet bouquet placed also there, and then the child went down to the drawing-room to await the coming of the travelers. 
               Neither of the girls had any appetite for dinner, but from very different emotions. Several times Ethel ran out to the front piazza and down the avenue to listen for the carriage-wheels; at length, they were certainly drawing near, and with eager eyes and glowing cheeks, Ethel stood upon the lower step. 
               They are here; the carriage door is opened, and in a minute Ethel is folded in the arms of her new mamma. 
               "Daisy, darling. I shall never leave you again," murmured the lady. 
               "My own dear mamma, you are welcome; I am so happy." 
               Then came the heart-warm greeting of dear papa, and last of all, Ernest, the boy-friend of her childish years; but so very much improved, quite manly in appearance now, for two years make great changes in youth. 
               Miss Carter and Isabel are waiting in the drawing-room, their reception of the lady and her nephew decidedly cool. 
               The housekeeper too is waiting, and the master turning to her, said, 
               "This is your lady, Mrs. Bond; will you show her to her apartments?" 
               "You are welcome, dear madam, to Ashton Park." Leading the way, Mrs. Bond conducted her to her rooms, and soon found herself in those occupied by Ethel's mother; looking around, she said, 
               "This was your former lady's room, Mrs. Bond, was it not?" 
               "Yes, madam; may you be a blessing here, as she was." 
               Turning away, she left the room, and the lady, bending her knee in prayer, sought for guidance and grace to fill the place of the one that had passed away. 
               Mr. Ashton observed on entering that his wife's attention was fixed upon the picture of his lost Ethel. 
               "Is that pleasant to you, Emily? perhaps you may wish it removed." 
               "Let it stay there, Mr. Ashton; it will remind me always of the sweet lady that once occupied these rooms, and act as an incentive to emulate her virtues. I wish both pictures to remain where they are-that in the drawing-room as well as this." 
               The husband looked his thanks. 
               "That is worthy of you, Emily, a noble, generous request." 
               There are several articles of jewelry belonging to his former wife lying upon the dressing-table. 
               "Were these hers?" inquired the new wife. 
               "They were gifts in the early days of our married life." 
                
               "Let them all be put away for her daughters," said the lady; "I could never wear them." 
               There is a knock at the chamber-door, and a familiar voice outside inquiries, 
               "May I come in, mamma?" 
               Opening the door, Mrs. Ashton took Ethel on her saying, 
               "We shall have the old times over again, Daisy; did you ever think of them?" 
               "Many a time, mamma, but I never hoped for such a happy day as this." 
               "You should have seen the old people at the lighthouse on the day that I bade them farewell." 
               "What did they say, mamma?" 
               "'Tell our little Daisy, that our hearts are heavy for the want of her; if we could only see her once more.'" 
               "How are they, mamma?" 
               "Aaron is getting feeble I am afraid that he cannot stay much longer at the lighthouse, for it is exposing there in winter." 
               "Do you hear that, papa? what will become of him if he has to leave there? I could never bear to think of his going to the poorhouse." 
               "He shall never do that, Ethel; I will increase his allowance, so that he may employ a man to attend to his duties." 
                
               "Do they go to church, mamma?" 
               "Yes, Daisy, every Sunday, when it is fine; and Mr. Edmunds is very good and faithful to the old people." 
               "What will become of the Sunday-school at the lighthouse, mamma?" 
               "I provided for that before I left, Daisy; Mary Hope, a niece of Mr. Edmunds, has taken charge of it, and the children are so well trained now that she will have no trouble in keeping them together, especially as her uncle comes down twice a month in the afternoon to preach to them." 
               "Are the people any better, mamma? you know what dreadful Sabbaths there used to be at the shore." 
               "There are real Sundays there now, Daisy, and many a time the little ones told me about your words when you were among them." 
               Daisy had really been a ministering child at the seashore, for her silver threads were fashioning themselves in the fabric of their young lives. 
               Mrs. Ashton soon found that she was not a welcome guest, either to Miss Carter or Isabel; but quietly and patiently she pursued the even tenor of her way, performing the duties of a Christian wife and mother, leaving all to time and Providence to right. 
                
               On the following Sunday, Mrs. Ashton appeared at the parish church, in company with the family at the Park. 
               The devout and serious aspect of the new lady reminded the rector of the former occupant, for although there was not the same beauty, there was the look of a kindred spirit in the serene and holy countenance. 
               The rector sought to welcome the lady after church, and several heads of families accosted her pleasantly, as leaning on her husband's arm she passed out of the church, holding Ethel by the hand. 
               Ernest walked by the side of Isabel, and the young lady thought that the handsome, manly youth might perhaps form quite an addition to the society at the Park. 
               Next day the rector and his wife called upon the new lady. 
               "You are heartily welcome, Mrs. Ashton" said the good man; "it seemed so like old times to see all the family in the Ashton pew; it was a blessed spirit that used to lead them there." 
               "I trust that I may be able in some degree to fill her place, and must look to you, Mr. Tremaine, to tell me all about the benevolent operations of the parish." 
               "There is the parish school, madam, very much in need of a directress; our mothers' meeting too is languishing; the club for the aged women wants a head; indeed, there is abundance of work all around." 
               "I am glad to know of it, Mr. Tremaine; it is my desire not only to labor myself, but to bring 'up my daughters to the same good works; you will find Ethel always ready, for when she lived at the lighthouse she was truly a 'ministering child' there." 
               Mr. Tremaine smiled, saying, 
               "Yes, we know something of the little girl's missionary spirit, for she often goes with our Mary to visit Mrs. Tremaine's pensioners when she is unable to go herself." 
               "I have heard the people frequently speak of the dear child," said the rector's wife, "and I know that she drops many a sweet and precious seed in their cottages." 
               "I have a great deal of leisure," said Mrs. Ashton, "and nothing can please me more than to co-operate with you in all these good works." 
               The visit had been a pleasant one. 
               "She is of a kindred spirit with the one that we have lost," said the rector's wife as they walked slowly down the avenue on their way home. 
               "Not so lovely as the former lady," replied the rector, "but there is a beauty in her face that we shall look for in heaven." 
                
               "The beauty of holiness, husband; that is what you mean." 
               "How did you like the services of our church, Ernest?" asked Ethel, on their return home. 
               "They were very impressive, Daisy. I have been in Episcopal churches in New York, therefore all was hot entirely new." 
               "Would you like to go to Skipton Church altogether, Ernest?" 
               "I have no objection, Daisy, so long as we can hear the Gospel preached by such a rector as Mr. Tremaine." 
               "The Prayer-book is full of the Gospel, Ernest, for everywhere we find the name of Jesus; and it seems to me full of Bible words turned into prayer." 
               "I have had some prejudices, Daisy, against the Church, for in New York, I was thrown among people who attended upon ritualistic churches." 
               "What are those, Ernest?" 
               "They are such as wish to take us back to forms and ceremonies used hundreds of years ago, when the Church was still tainted with the usages of Popery." 
               "If they want to find old prayers and customs, I wonder that they don't go back to the days when the Christians worshiped in that upper room in Jerusalem." 
               Ernest smiled at the remark as he replied: 
                
               "I don't believe that they would find candles, and bright-colored altar-cloths, priests robed, in popish vestments, or the apostles bowing to the east, and rendering divine worship to the elements of the Lord's Supper, in those early days." 
               "But there is nothing of that kind at Skipton church, Ernest." 
               "No, Daisy, or I could not go there; but I can fully enter into the spirit of the worship, and receive with gratitude the news of salvation through a crucified Redeemer alone." 
               "And you will go with us there, Ernest?" 
               "Yes, Daisy, for I have heard that God is with you." 
               The good stepmother made no change in the domestic arrangements, retaining Miss Granby, whom she soon learned to value as a personal friend, but in vain she sought to conciliate Isabel Ashton, while there was another to whisper evil counsels in her ear, as others have done under similar circumstances. 
               Happy was it for Ethel that a friend so wise and loving was ever at her side, for her sympathy and counsel were such a comfort to the young girl. 
               Many a time, at the twilight hour might we find the child of twelve seated in the same bay window as the child of three, pressed to the bosom of her mother then, but now with her good stepmother, listening to her gentle teachings. 
               "See, mamma! there is Isabel walking with Aunt Sophia." 
               Glancing out of the window, Mrs. Ashton perceived the two in close conversation, pacing up and down on the upper walk of the back terrace. 
               "Why does Isabel avoid me so, mamma?" said the little girl; "I have tried to make her love me, but she cares a great deal more for Charlotte Harcourt." 
               "You know, my dear, that I told you she might not like a sister to return whom she had thought so long dead; it makes much difference in Isabel's prospects hereafter, Daisy." 
               "I should never have thought of such a thing, mamma; I should have been so glad to find a sister; but I have not found mine yet." 
               "Wait patiently, Ethel; live the life of a Christian child; be patient and gentle toward your relatives, and God will bless you, I am sure. Commit thy ways unto the Lord; trust also in him and he shall bring it to pass. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Only be prayerful, be loving, and you will find your sister yet." 
               "I should be very happy then, mamma; I should have papa, and you, and Ernest, and Isabel; all I should want then would be the dear old friends at the lighthouse." 
               "Sometimes I feel that they will be with us yet; your papa and I have had many conversations about them since we returned; and whenever a letter arrives telling of Aaron's failing strength, I have seen him thoughtful for days afterward; for he says Ethel that they seem to belong to the Ashton household." 
               "I think so too, mamma; if they were here, we could do so much to make them comfortable." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               NEW TENANTS AT THE LODGE. 
               ETHEL has much to show Ernest in his new home, and the rambling mania is upon both young spirits. 
               After the hours of study each day, some new jaunt is proposed. 
               "Which way to-day, Daisy?" said the youth, for he still clung to the associations of the seashore name. 
               "To the woods, Ernest: there is one about a half mile distant; but I suppose that you will think it a, very small affair if you compare it with the grand old forests that I have heard you talk about." 
               "Nothing can be more lovely, Daisy, than the charming green of English foliage." 
               With bright spirits they started for their ramble, accompanied by Beppo. 
               It was a fine old woods, perfectly clear of under-brush, covered with a soft, mossy carpet of living green, not very thickly wooded, so that through the arching branches little peeps of rural scenery were ever and anon gleaming upon them. 
               "This is all very different from our own land, Daisy," said her companion; "everywhere it seems like one cultivated garden." 
               Just then Beppo started a poor frightened hare, for he had very doggish habits still, although under the training of such a tender, gentle mistress. 
               With some difficulty she called the animal to her side, and succeeded in holding him fast long enough to allow the little hunted creature to make its escape. 
               Taking their way through the woods and over a stile, they found themselves in a rural lane, bordered by small tenements. 
               Two or three little girls ran out to meet Ethel, evidently glad to see the young lady from the Park. 
               "Is this your field of labor, Daisy?" said Ernest, smiling. 
               "Yes; I come here once a week to see after these poor people; papa allows me a purse, and I really do not need anything, so that I use it nearly all for the needy; and I am well paid, I can assure you." 
               "How, Daisy?" 
               "By smiles and blessings, Ernest." 
               Just then out ran little Bessie Kay, and taking the hand of her young benefactress, said: 
                
               "Come ill, Miss Ethel; mother wants to thank you for the baby-clothes that you sent, they are so soft and warm for little brother." 
               Mrs. Kay was standing at the door, and dropping a courtesy, said: 
               "That was a right smart basket of baby-clothes; little Jim could not have had such a lot for a long while." 
               "Mrs. Bond and Kathleen helped to make them, and I am so glad that you are pleased." 
               "God bless your sweet young face, miss! I never see you without thinking of the dear lady that cared for us poor folks; we have missed her many a year when the cold winds are howling round our cottages." 
               "I want to be just like mamma, Mrs. Ray, for everybody says that she went about doing good but good-bye, I must be going, now.'" 
               She turned from the cottage, bright beams upon her young face, for sweet and cheering are the blessings of the poor, and they are following Daisy every day. 
               "I see, Daisy, that you are trying to imitate the example of the 'Ministering Children.'" 
               "A little, I hope, Ernest; I have thought a great deal about them, ever since you gave me that beautiful book; if I only learn how to do good when I am a little girl, then I shall be the better able to follow mamma when I am a woman." 
               Very pleasant was the walk home through the green lawns around Ashton Park, and very sweet the welcome which always awaited Ethel now from her new mamma. 
               "Where have you been to-day, Daisy?" was the first inquiry, for often the lady of Oakdale took pleasure in calling the child by her pet name. 
               "Through Marley Wood and along Cowslip Lane, mamma; everything was so lovely to-day, and we saw Mrs. Ray and Bessie, and several of the poor people. I am so glad that my money went to fill that basket, mamma; you should have seen how happy they were." 
               "So am I, Daisy; for the pleasure will remain for a long time, but if it had been spent upon yourself, it would all be gone now." 
               Isabel was listening to the conversation; how little satisfaction she had reaped of her last month's allowance, for it had all been spent at Mrs. Rood's pastry-cook shop in her last ride to Laneton; humming a light air, she left the room, for the atmosphere was anything but pleasant. 
               A few days of rather gloomy weather put a stop to out-door pleasures, but as soon as it cleared off, a ramble to the cliffs was next in order, and reaching the highest point, Ethel pointed out to her companion the open view of the ocean. 
               "Very lovely, Daisy," was the youth's remark; "but nothing to the broad expanse viewed from the old lighthouse; although it is truly a charming spot." 
               "Don't you see the fine residences along the borders, Ernest?" 
               "Yes, there are really some very picturesque situations." 
               "We visit several of those families, Ernest; and it is quite a treat to take excursions in their pleasure-yachts on fine summer days." 
               They seated themselves beneath the bright blue sky, and spent an hour in viewing the sea-birds that came sailing by, evidently in no fear of the watchers. 
               "Do you know, Ernest, that a visit to the cliffs always makes my heart ache?" 
               "How so, Daisy?" 
               "My thoughts are flying to the old lighthouse, the distance seems so short then between myself and dear old grandpa and grandma; I wonder if I shall ever see them again?" 
               "A strange thought has visited me very often lately, Daisy; you know how fast old Jacob is failing; I don't believe that he will live many months longer." 
               "What then, Ernest?" 
                
               "Would it not be pleasant to have our old friends here at the lodge?" 
               Ethel brightened: 
               "The very thing, Ernest; oh, wouldn't we be happy then? I'll talk to papa about it; but don't let us say one word before poor old Jacob." 
               A new throb of joy gave lightness to Ethel's footsteps all the way home, for already the sanguine child saw the new tenants at the lodge. 
               "There is one place that we must visit," said the child, as they reached the lodge-gate, "but that must be on horseback, for it is five miles from the Park; you will be charmed, I know; it is a pile of ancient ruins once an abbey, it is said." 
               Ethel watched for a favorable day. 
               One of the brightest of spring mornings dawned upon them in a short time, and Ethel mounted upon Lightfoot, and Ernest upon Flash, started on their way to the ruins. 
               "This is like old times, Daisy" said the boy, as he gently touched the reins of the pony; "how little did we think that we should ever belong to the same family!" 
               "It is very strange, Ernest, for it does seem as if it were all meant that it should be just so." 
               When you went away, Daisy, I thought that perhaps we might meet again after I had completed my education; but I suppose that Uncle Ashton took a fancy to my aunt when he was in America, and so you see that it brought us all together again." 
               "I don't know how he could help it, Ernest, she is so good and kind; so, after all, it is just what I wanted so much, but I couldn't see the way how it could be; it puts me in mind of the beautiful hymn that mamma likes so very much: 
                      
                        "God moves in a mysterious way, 
                        His wonders to perform.'" 
                     
                  
                
               Ethel knew that there was something very mysterious by the name of Providence, but she did not see the wondrous weaving of the silver threads, nor the growing fabric that she was silently fashioning in her English home. 
               But the two are now in sight of the abbey. It was an imposing ruin standing in the midst of grand old forest trees, that looked reverend with age, for the edifice in the days of its glory had stood in the midst of a park. 
               Now it was in a dilapidated state; the walls on one side were crumbling, and the frame-work of the windows here and there was all that remained. Making their way over piles of stones through the ancient door-way, they found themselves within the abbey; the cloistered columns were yet standing, and through the arches were revealed the ruins of the stone altar, the railings prostrate, and the large windows of stained glass, a few panes of which yet remained. The stone-floor was covered with moss, and wherever ivy could find a support, the graceful vine was trailing over arch and column and broken shaft its deep green drapery. Up the aisle, silently and reverently, they pursued their way, their bright young faces just stepping into life in strong contrast with the decay and death all around. 
               Suddenly they were startled by a flapping of wings, and the sound of "hoot, hoot," indicating the presence of an owl within the old abbey. Flying across the building, it took its place in one of the upper niches of the large oriel window, and there it sat in gloomy state, alone and solitary. 
               "Look here, Ernest!" said the young girl, as, pointing to inscriptions upon the old tombstones, she stood close to the covered vaults, reading with a serious face the defaced letters. 
               Here lay a knight in armor, and on the stone, inscribed in letters almost worn away, she read: 
               "To the memory of Sir Launcelot de Luce, a brave soldier and accomplished gentleman;" and on the same slab, 
               "Here lies the Lady Anne de Luce, the beloved wife of Sir Launcelot de Luce; Frederic, the oldest son, and Jaqueline, the only daughter," all bearing the date of the fifteenth century. 
               Farther down the aisles were the tombs of priests and nobles, and even to these young spirits the presence of this mortal dust was deeply impressive. 
               "This is a solemn place, Daisy," said the youth; "passing away is written upon everything here below." 
               They seated themselves on one of the steps of the altar, Admiring the effect of the sunlight streaming in upon the old ruin, oppressed by the deep silence all around. 
               Suddenly the caroling of a sweet bird was heard amid the gloom. 
               "There it is, Ernest," said his companion, pointing to the highest arch in one of the Gothic windows. 
               For there, unconscious of the decay below, a sweet mavis sat and sang his blithe and happy song. 
               "Death below, Daisy, but light and bliss above; does it not seem as if the sweet bird were singing of resurrection?" 
               "Yes, Ernest; what would we be if we had no hope of a world beyond this land of Death?" 
               "Do you ever think, Daisy, of all that we owe to our blessed Redeemer?" 
               "Yes, Ernest, it is in all my thoughts; and I want to spend all my life for Him who gave himself for me." 
               "Let us count what he has done; first, he made atonement for all our sins by a death of agony, opening thus the gate of heaven; then, by his resurrection, he has brought life and immortality to light; he has destroyed death and abolished sin, and is preparing for those who love him joys which 'eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man.'" 
               As they talked, the bird sang still its song of sweet content; the creature above and the immortals below all rejoicing in their Creator. 
               They tarried amid the ruins until the slanting rays of the setting sun warned them that it was time to return; and mounting their horses, they were soon cantering along the road homeward. Not soon would they forget the impressions made in the old abbey. 
               Their conversation turned at last upon the household at Ashton Park. 
               "How is it, Daisy, that Isabel seems to love you so little?" 
               "I cannot tell, Ernest, for I thought that I should be so happy to meet a sister; but I have not found one yet," said Ethel, with a sad look upon her young face. 
               "She is jealous, Daisy, I am afraid." 
                
               "Jealous of what, Ernest?" 
               "That you have come to share her inheritance, chiefly; but there are other things beside that which the young lady does not like." 
               "I think that she will get over it all, Ernest, after a while." 
               "Yes, Daisy, if patient love can conquer dislike, I am sure that yours must prevail; I think that if she were let alone, she would soon change; but while Miss Carter is here to whisper in her ear, she will keep her apart from her sister." 
               Ethel is now thirteen years old, for she has been three years at home, all the while faithfully corresponding with her dear old friends, and sending twice a year a box filled with comforts. 
               She maintains the lovely character of a "ministering child" yet, and old Jacob at the lodge has learned to listen for her voice every day, for he is blind now and cannot see the sweet face. 
               He likes her reading of the Testament best, for Betsy is an imperfect reader, and her stammering tongue confuses the old man. 
               "I am getting weaker every day, Miss Ethel," said the listener one day; "but I have, trusted in my Saviour for forty years, and he will not forsake me in my old age, I am sure." 
               He is bedridden now, and his daughter, who has performed the office of gate-keeper, cannot do so any longer, when her father needs a nurse constantly by his side; and so Ethel has persuaded her father to employ Robert Lynch, a boy of twelve, to perform the work as long as Jacob lives. 
               To the hour of the old man's departure, Ethel was found at the close of each day ministering at the lodge; and Mr. Tremaine often said after meeting her there: 
               "This dear child will fill her mother's place when she is a woman, for she is a real blessing to poor old Jacob." 
               Soothed and comforted, he passed away, and after the funeral Ethel sought her father. 
               "I have come with a request, papa, which I am sure you will not refuse." 
               "And what is it, my daughter?" was the reply. 
               "You will want a gate-keeper. I know that you like to do good to my old guardians; won't you send for them to take his place?" 
               "Nothing could be better, Ethel; the work is very light, the place comfortable, and I have long been thinking what I could do for Aaron, now that he is really out of health. I will write immediately; Betsy and Robert can stay until they arrive, and then we will take Betsy into the house for chambermaid." 
                
               Away ran Ethel to Ernest with the news. 
               "It is all settled, Ernest," said the young girl, with beaming face. 
               "What is settled, Daisy?" 
               "They are coming, and we shall be so happy." 
               "Who, Daisy? I am quite in the dark yet." 
               "Aaron and Margaret are coming to the lodge, and I am to begin to-morrow to see about getting it all comfortable; it is all coming round so delightfully." 
               "What do you mean, Daisy?" 
               "I have Miss Emily, and Ernest, and Kathleen, and now I shall have Aaron and Margaret too." 
               "Very busy were the two at the lodge, for Kathleen was almost as happy as Ethel in prospect of the new comers. 
               Broken china was to be replaced' by what was whole, a new carpet put down, the sleeping-room made perfectly neat, and the sitting-room just what Ethel thought necessary to the old people. 
               When all was completed, Mr. and Mrs. Ashton paid a visit to the lodge, and papa said, 
               "I think that you have made a cozy home for your old friends, Ethel." 
               "I am so glad, papa, that they are coming; now I can show how I remember all their goodness to little Daisy." 
                
               But there is one full of disgust at the anticipation of the new tenants at the lodge, and that is Isabel. 
               She is closeted with Aunt Sophia, and the two are mutually dissatisfied. 
               "I suppose that Ethel will be making herself ridiculous in the presence of our visitors by calling these old paupers grandpa and grandma; I wonder that papa allows it." 
               "Her residence among these low people has had a very degrading influence upon the girl," replied the aunt, "and I fear that we shall never see her anything but a plebeian in her tastes." 
               But, notwithstanding these murmurs of discontent, the despised people were soon on their way to the old country, filled with joy at the prospect of being once more with Daisy. 
               Two months fly rapidly by; news of the arrival of the ship had reached the lodge, and by the next day the new tenants would be there. 
               Ethel and Kathleen' have been there all the afternoon; the tea-table is set out with the new china, a comfortable meal is ready in the kitchen, and Ethel is running in and out to spy the road. 
               "There is the carriage, Kathleen," said the young lady; and opening the gate herself, Ethel was soon clasped in the arms of her dear old friends. 
                
               Margaret was weeping for joy, and so was Aaron, although he tried to hide it. 
               Holding the waif of the seashore off at arm's length, Margaret exclaimed: 
               "Look at her, Aaron! how she is grown! She is not little Daisy any more." 
               "I am always Daisy to you, grandma," said the young girl, as she took Margaret's hands between her own and kissed them fondly; "and now you have come to stay with us altogether, grandma; how strangely things move on!" 
               "Yes, strange enough, Daisy; when we parted three years ago, I never expected to see you again; but our good heavenly Father has brought us all together in his own good way and time." 
               "But come, grandma, you are tired;" and hurrying her to the neat little chamber, Ethel helped her to disrobe and get ready for tea. 
               With her own hands she served the tea, and Kathleen waited upon the table, but not without many awkward blunders. 
               "Wonderful! wonderful!" said Aaron, as he watched Daisy's movements; "we thought that we had lost our child, but we have her again, wife; I can scarcely believe my own eyes." 
               The rest of the meal was spent in making inquiries about the families on the shore. 
                
               "They all remember you, Daisy, and your pretty little books are always welcome." 
               Mr. and Mrs. Ashton came down to welcome the old people. 
               "Is all right, Aaron?" asked the gentleman. 
               "I cannot express my thanks, dear sir," was the reply, 'for there is more than we bad any right to expect." 
               "Ethel has arranged it all, Aaron, for I was determined to let her have her own way in making you comfortable." 
               "Here is a rival for Beppo, Ernest," said the young girl, pointing to old Lion, who lay on the mat by the door. 
               "Did he know you, Daisy?" said the youth. 
               He seemed very glad about something, Ernest." 
               Daily Ethel visited the old people, and now their joy seemed full. 
               Isabel was shocked at what she deemed Ethel's folly, but when on Sunday she saw her escorting the old people up the aisle, and placing them in a comfortable pew, taking her seat by their side, Isabel's disgust was at its height. 
               They were not accustomed to the services of the parish church, and it was Ethel's pleasure to find the places for her old friends. 
               "It is the same gospel that we heard from Mr. Edmunds," said Aaron; "good news of salvation; and if it does come to us through another way, it doesn't make any difference to me." 
               "Nor to me, either," said Margaret; "all I want is to hear about Jesus and his love; for we have learned to love your Master, Daisy." 
               Ernest has not yet completed his studies, and is away to school, much to Ethel's grief, for he is such an addition to the society at the Park. 
               Every day Ethel's influence over her father is increasing, and Aunt Sophia is more open in her dislike of the child. 
               She is, moreover, disrespectful to the mistress of the Park, and Mr. Ashton is seriously questioning the propriety of keeping such a source of discord beneath his family roof. 
               Ethel has one family beside the rector's where she spends many happy hours, for Anna and Helen Ross are near neighbors, and are very fond of their young playmate, for she is a merry little girl, and always so obliging. 
               Saturday afternoon finds them often at the Park, and Isabel smiles at the sports of the three, shocked that a girl of thirteen should take delight in dressing dolls, riding them out in a pony carriage, and having a tea-party out of small cups and saucers. 
               Isabel sometimes passes by the three in her walks with her aunt but scarcely deigns to notice "the children," as she styles them. 
               "What makes Isabel so cross?" asked Anna, the elder of the two. 
               "She does not care for children," was Ethel's reply; "Isabel is almost a young lady now." 
               "But she might have a pleasant word for us, I think; our sister Hetty often helps us in our play, and she is two years older than Isabel." 
               "Hetty has always lived with younger sisters, and Isabel has not, Anna." 
               "But she is not kind to you, Ethel, and I cannot bear her." 
               "She is four years older than I am, Anna, and likes to be with Aunt Sophia." 
               "We know all about her, Ethel, for Kathleen tells our Kitty how she treats you." 
               "I am sorry that Kathleen should talk so about my sister." 
               "You are better than I am, Ethel; I wouldn't take it as you do, I can tell you." 
               The child turned the subject, and Anna Ross admired the gentleness that she felt she could not imitate. 
               Mr. Ashton is sorely pained by the state of affairs at home, and finding all his plans for Isabel's improvement thwarted by her aunt, he has concluded at length to make a complete change in the household. 
               Isabel is to be sent from home to complete her education, Miss Granby to remain at the Park, and Aunt Sophia to be provided with rooms at Mrs. Lawton's, a homestead about two miles distant. 
               He has fitted up her rooms handsomely, provided her with a maid, and settled an annuity upon her for life, but can no longer consent to disturb his family harmony by the presence of a discontented member. 
               The trouble is, how to inform the lady of the change; although kindly done, she is deeply offended. 
               "I know whom to thank for this," said Miss Carter; "Mrs. Ashton has worked her cards well. I knew that we could, not live peaceably together." 
               "You do her great injustice, Sophia; she has been in no sense a mover in this matter; it has been all my own deliberate conclusion. I have tried for three years to see if you would relax in your dislike of Ethel; but there is no change, and I am sure that for the good of all concerned a separate residence is desirable." 
               "I do not wish to intrude upon your family, Richard, but I am sure that my sister Ethel would have been grieved." 
               "By no means; your sister would never have tolerated rated what we have endured so long; but I do not wish to break up our family intercourse; we desire that you should visit us whenever you feel disposed." 
               "My visits will be few and far between, Richard; there is nothing of interest to draw me to the Park since Isabel has gone." 
               In such a mood, the lady took her departure from Ashton Park. 
               She could not be wholly insensible to the kindness which had provided everything necessary for her comfort, for even all the lady-like ornaments of her room, to which she had been so long accustomed, were there. 
               Kathleen was standing at the window of Miss Ethel's room, watching the departure with ill-concealed satisfaction. 
               "I am glad that Miss Carter has gone," said the girl; now you will have some peace, Miss Ethel, for she was always finding fault with everything that you did." 
               "I am sorry that papa has sent her away, Kathleen, for I am afraid that she will be very lonesome "at Mrs. Lawton's; but I mean to go and see her once a week at least." 
               The atmosphere of the family soon became peaceful and harmonious, and though Mrs. Ashton regretted the necessity of the change, she was daily convinced of the propriety of her husband's conduct. 
               A new life is dawning at Ashton Park, and Ethel rejoices over the presence of an infant brother; she is never tired of admiring the dimpled cheek and chubby hands, and is looking forward to the time when little brother Edward will know and love her. 
               Not so with Isabel; the news communicated by Aunt Sophia, with her usual comments, is wormwood to her jealous spirit. 
               "Now that there is a son and heir, everything is changed," wrote the young girl; "we are nothing but daughters now-the estate belongs to the baby." 
               How different with Ethel! She is thinking of the time when little Edward will walk and prattle his first infant words; then of the days when she will teach the little fellow to lisp his Maker's name, and already she is gathering together pretty infant hymns for the pet brother. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               WAITING AND TRUSTING. 
               IT is Christmas again, and Ernest and Isabel are both at home; the latter by no means pleased at the sight of the infant stranger, nor at the absence of Aunt Sophia. 
               Ethel is in fine spirits once more, and out On the front lawn she spends many happy hours on her favorite seat under the old laurustinus. 
               It is in full bloom now, and covered with its clusters of lovely white flowers is a charming feature in the winter landscape. 
               Ernest is plucking some of the blossoms for the young girl, while she is seated on the rustic bench encircling the tree. 
               Filling her small basket, she is enjoying the bright sunshine of the winter sky lighting up the lawn. 
               It is a charming picture, and from an upper window Isabel is watching the two with jealous eyes. 
               "This is pleasant, Daisy," said Ernest; "I have often thought about it when shut up in my little room at college." 
               "How much longer will you have to be away, Ernest?" 
               "Several years yet, for I mean to have a thorough education." 
               "I wonder what you will be, Ernest; I know what I wish." 
               "What, Daisy?" 
               "I want to see you a minister of the Lord Jesus, Ernest; do you ever think of it?" 
               "Very often, my little friend; but I do not wish to enter the sacred ministry uncalled." 
               "How would you know, Ernest?" 
               "I will watch the finger of Providence, Daisy, as well as listen to the voice within; and if assured that my Master needs me, no other life seems half so happy to me." 
               "I have been thinking a great deal lately, Ernest, about a very serious step; there was a notice given last Sunday of a visitation from the bishop, and I felt as if I should like to be confirmed." 
               "Why, Daisy?" 
               "I know that I love my dear Saviour, and I think that I ought to profess my faith in him, and to devote myself to his service." 
               "Have you spoken to Mr. Tremaine about it?" 
                
               "I have not yet, but I am going to-morrow afternoon." 
               "When will it take place, Daisy?" 
               "In three weeks from next Sunday; what do you think about it, Ernest?" 
               "I think that you ought to be one of the candidates; perhaps I may be one myself; it is six years since I was received into the Christian Church in America; but my choice is fully made now, and I desire to be a consistent member of the Church of England, provided that I can always enjoy a spiritual ministry." 
               "What a happy family we shall be, Ernest, if all of us should become followers of the Lord on earth, and then reunited in heaven!" 
               The pleasant hour has passed, and taking her basket, Ethel entered the house. 
               Mamma was at the window, and beckoned to Ethel to come up to her room. 
               Isabel, too, has been watching the pair, and no sooner has Ethel disappeared than she hastens to join Ernest in the family room. 
               "Sit down, mamma," said the young girl, as with basket in hand she entered the chamber; "I am going to dress your hair with these lovely flowers;" and yielding to the playful order, Mrs. Ashton submitted to the decoration. 
                
               "There, now! just look if that is not lovely," said Ethel, as she led mamma to the glass. 
               "We can't boast of such lovely bloom in the winter season in America, Ethel." 
               "No, it is too cold there; but there are splendid trees, and grand mountains and rivers, mamma; but let us sit down a moment; I have something more serious to talk about." 
               Seating herself in a low chair by Mrs. Ashton's side, she leaned her head upon her mother's lap, and said in low tones, 
               "Did you hear Mr. Tremaine's notice last Sunday, mamma?" 
               "I did, my dear: but what then?" 
               "I have studied the service, mamma, and feel that I can sincerely renew the solemn vow made for me at my baptism; I do want to profess my faith in my Redeemer." 
               "Then, my dear, nothing would make me more happy than to see you take a step so solemn; but what would you say, Ethel, if; tell you that I am about to do the same?" 
               "I could sing the beautiful chant then, mamma." 
               "Which, Ethel?" 
               "'Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits.'" 
               "I have long professed the name of my Redeemer, Ethel, but I am fully identified with Skipton church now, and desire to be numbered among its communicants." 
               The two young friends are frequent visitors at the lodge, and we find them now seated with the old people. 
               There are many evidences of a change in both, and Ethel is not surprised to hear that they too have listened with serious minds to the good rector's appeal. 
               "We are growing old, Daisy," said Aaron, "and it cannot be many years at most that we shall tarry here; we have taken the blessed Saviour to be our Lord and Master, and we want to be numbered among his followers. I know that we shall be the humblest and most unworthy there, but the Master will not turn us away." 
               Ethel clasped the old man's hand, and with moistened eyes, said, 
               "Now, grandpa, we shall all be a band of pilgrims traveling home to heaven together." 
               "I often wonder, Daisy, how I could live so many years without a Saviour; never bending my knee in prayer, never reading his blessed word, never going to our Father's house; and it might have been so always, if it had not been for the storm that cast you upon our rocky shore." 
                
               "Yes, Daisy" said Margaret, "from the first year that you spent at the lighthouse, my old heart, so long dead and cold, has been turning back to God." 
               "It was a wonderful way to bring you to God," said Ethel; "such weak, simple words from such a feeble child; but it was all God's doings, that is plain enough, grandma." 
               "It is all grace, Daisy-rich, heavenly grace." 
               The visit was at an end, and the old people are standing at the door of the lodge, watching Ethel and Ernest walking along the gravel-way to the house, with Beppo bounding by their side. 
               "That is a blessed lamb, wife," said the old man; "a ministering child' she has been to us." 
               "Sometimes I look back upon the life that we led before Daisy came," replied Margaret, "and wonder at the goodness that spared us so long." 
               Ethel has found her way to the rectory, and good Mr. Tremaine, taking her hand, has led her into the study. 
               She wears an unusually serious countenance, and there is a timid, downcast look upon her fair features. 
               She sat in silence for a few minutes, and then the rector spoke: 
               "You have come to see me about the notice of last Sunday; is it not so?" 
               "Yes, Mr. Tremaine; I hope that you will not think me forward, but I felt as if you called me last Sunday." 
               "And so I did, Ethel; did your heart answer, my child?" 
               "It did, Mr. Tremaine; it said, 
                      
                        'Here, Lord, I give myself away; 
                        'Tis is all that I can do' 
                     
                  
                
               May I come?" 
               If you have truly repented of every sin, if you have renounced the world and all its vanities, if you-truly believe in and love the Lord Jesus, come and welcome, Ethel." 
               "I think that I can answer yes to all, especially to the last, for I believe that I have loved my Saviour ever since mamma used to take me on her lap and talk to me about him." 
               "Ernest has been here, too, my child; I never heard a clearer account of spiritual renewal than he gave; I am glad that we shall have such an ornament in our church, and hope yet to see him in the sacred ministry." 
               "Mamma will be one, Mr. Tremaine, and dear old grandpa and grandma, I hope too." 
               "Yes, I have seen them frequently, and doubt not that they are really humble disciples of the Saviour." 
               "I ought to be a happy child, Mr. Tremaine, to find so many taking up the cross to follow our dear Master." 
               The day has at length arrived, and five of the Ashton family are found ready to renew their Christian vows; Aaron and Margaret having been baptized on the Sunday previous. 
               It was a solemn sight, and when Mrs. Ashton in her ripe womanhood, Ernest in his warm youth, Ethel in her girlhood, and the pair in their old age bowed before the altar of the Lord together, Mr. Ashton could not control the emotions that bowed his head, and made the strong man tremble, as he listened to the words, "Defend, O Lord, this thy servant with thy heavenly grace, that she may continue thine for ever, and daily increase more and more, until she come unto thine everlasting kingdom." 
               Isabel too looked on with troubled feelings, convictions of duty mingled with a strong love of the world which compelled the heart to answer, "Not yet-not yet." 
               But most of all was she troubled to see Ernest by the side of Ethel, for here was a new and sacred tie. 
               She had learned to admire the manly piety of Ernest Rutgers, and could not bear to see any one engrossing the attentions that she so much coveted. 
               Isabel has completed her education, and is looking forward to an entrance upon the gay and fashionable world, but, bent upon attracting the notice of the handsome young stranger at the Park, she is not scrupulous as to the method. 
               She watches with jealous eyes the talks under the laurustinus, and is resolved to break up some of these interviews. 
               Conscious that Ernest is deeply interested in the works of benevolence around the Park; we find her visiting Mrs. Ashton's parish-school, taking a class in Sunday-school, and quite active among the poor. Innocent Ethel is highly delighted, for she hopes that her sister is reaching after a better life. 
               Isabel generally contrives to entertain Ernest with accounts of her day's labors, and he is pleased to listen; sometimes their talk turns upon Ethel. 
               She is very artful, but the impression always left upon Ernest's mind is, that her sister considers Ethel a tame little creature, without much character of any kind. 
               Very busy is our young friend with her studies the old people at the lodge and her pensioners at Cowslip Lane. 
               She has a new work now, for Ethel knows that Aunt Sophia must be very lonely; she has not yet recovered her good temper sufficiently to visit fre quently at the Park, although, now, that Isabel is at home, she does come over about once a fortnight. 
               Ethel is sure that her aunt looks pale and wan, her step is feeble and she seems very short-breathed. 
               We frequently find her riding out on Lightfoot, her own pony, with no companion but Beppo, for Mr. Ashton is sure that he is perfectly safe. 
               Ethel has often thought of visiting her aunt, although, she has never yet been invited; but to-day she has made up her mind, for Isabel reports that she is quite sick. 
               "There she goes, bless her young heart!" said Mrs. Bond, who, with Kathleen, was watching the young girl; "I hope that she will be well received by Miss Garter." 
               "I wonder how she can go," was Kathleen's reply; "I know that Miss Carter hates our dear young lady." 
               "She is a genuine lamb of the Saviour's flock," was the reply, "and her holy walk will work changes in Miss Sophia yet." 
               With her little basket of Malaga grapes and flowers on her arm, she trotted cheerfully on toward Prospect Hill, the name of her aunt's residence. 
               A quick ride of two miles brought her to the gate, and dismounting, the servant has fastened Lightfoot to the tree, and Ethel is introduced into the parlor, where Mrs. Lawton is in waiting. 
                
               "Can I see my aunt?" asked the young girl. 
               "Miss Carter is very unwell to-day," was the reply, "but I -will go and see." 
               Mrs. Lawton was gone for fifteen minutes, for she had some trouble to persuade the invalid to receive her niece. 
               "You can come, Miss Ethel," said the lady on her return, and leading the way, Ethel was introduced to her aunt's apartments." 
               The rooms were bright and cheerful, opening on to a delightful open prospect, where fine country residences, with their beautiful grounds, met the eye at every point. 
               Miss Carter, in her dressing-gown, was reclining on a lounge, a small table by her side, on which stood her medicines and the last new novel. 
               Ethel advanced, and pressing a kiss upon her aunt's pale cheek, took a seat by her side. 
               "I am sorry to see you so unwell, Aunt Sophia," said the young girl. 
               "I am very sick and lonesome, Ethel, with no one but Jane to keep me company; why don't Isabel come more frequently?" 
               "She has been very busy lately, aunt; but I have brought you some fine grapes." 
               Opening the basket, Ethel brought out the fruit. 
               "Bring me a glass dish, Jane," said the lady. "I am much obliged to you Ethel; this is just what I have been wishing for." 
               "And here are some lovely flowers; I cut them fresh from the conservatory just for you, Aunt Sophia." 
               "It is very good in you, child, to think of your sick aunt." 
               "I think of you every day, Aunt Sophia, and will come often if you wish to see me." 
               "Any company is pleasant now, child; you can come as often as you please." 
               "What are you reading, aunt?" 
               She smiled faintly as she replied: 
               "I suppose that you would be quite shocked to know that I read this novel all day last Sunday, for the want of something better." 
               "You don't find much comfort in it for a sick person, aunt." 
               "I will own, Ethel, that it don't please me as such reading used to." 
               "Perhaps it is because you want something better now; I have brought a dear little book that Mr. Edmunds gave me before I left America; shall I leave it?" 
               "What is it, Ethel?" 
               "'Daily Texts,' aunt. I think that it would comfort you." 
                
               "You can leave it if you choose; but tell me, have you heard from the Harcourts lately?" 
               "Isabel had a letter last week; you know that she will be eighteen soon, and then papa is going to give a ball; the Harcourts are looking forward to it with high expectations." 
               "You don't pretend to say that you don't care for such things, Ethel?" 
               "I don't say so, aunt, for I was never present at a ball; but I don't think that I should care for such a crowd of people." 
               "What kind of parties do you like, Ethel?" 
               "I like to have Helen and Anna Ross, and Mary Tremaine spend the afternoon with me; and our Christmas party, when the poor people all come and get their presents; the little children were so happy." 
               "You are a strange child, Ethel; but one could hardly expect anything else, brought up as you were on the seashore, among such common people." 
               "Is there anything that you would like from the Park, aunt?" 
               "Are the apricots ripe yet, Ethel?" 
               "They will be very soon, aunt, and then I will bring you some; would you not like to ride, sometimes?" 
               "I think that I would in the low carriage on some fine day." 
                
               "I know that papa will send it. How pleasant everything is here! you can see so many pretty places around; who lives in that elegant house to the right?" 
               "That is Sir John Murray's country-seat, Ethel." 
               "Oh yes, I know Helen Murray; she is a sweet young girl; are the family there now?" 
               "They came last week, Ethel." 
               "They will be pleasant neighbors, aunt; but I must go now-good-bye." 
               "Come again, Ethel; your visit has done me good." 
               The young girl returned with a light heart, singing to herself as she remounted Lightfoot: 
               "I can wait and trust-Aunt Sophia will learn to love me yet. Oh if she would only learn to love my Saviour too!" 
               Beppo was sporting along by her side, wagging his bushy tail, and expressing his joy by short, quick barks. 
               Ethel stopped at the rectory on her way home to tell Mr. Tremaine how sick her aunt was. 
               "I will go see her, my child; I fear, from what I hear, that she is seriously sick." 
               Ethel gave papa a sad account of Aunt Sophia's appearance. 
               "You can visit her when you please, my dear, and remember that everything here is at her disposal; the low carriage every day, if she desires it." 
               Ethel's visit had already been a blessing to Miss Carter, for it had softened her heart toward her youthful niece, and for hours after her visit, conscience was reviewing all the past. 
               "That is a sweet young lady," said Jane, as she watched Ethel mounting her pony. 
               "She is a strange child," replied Miss Carter; "I can't account for some things about her; I never yet saw her resent an affront done her." 
               "Mrs. Bond says that she is just like her mamma-a real Christian." 
               Mr. Ashton listened to Ethel's expressions of unaffected sympathy for her aunt with quiet admiration; alone with his wife he gave utterance to his surprise. 
               "Ethel is true to her principles, Emily; she has never received any kindness from Sophia, but she is repaying all with the most gentle offices." 
               "What can be the reason for her aunt's dislike?" inquired the lady. 
               "Disappointment for Isabel, Emily; she had taught the child to look upon herself as sole heiress of Ashton Park, and the sudden advent of another claimant was too much; added to this, Ethel's loveliness was another bitter cup." 
                
               "I wonder, husband, that the dear child's uniform gentleness has not overcome this enmity sooner." 
               "It will yet, wife; there is that within Ethel that seems to weave around her footsteps beautiful tissues of faith, and hope, and love." 
               "That is true; 'out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh;' we can all wait and trust, husband." 
               Ethel was full of her new mission; Isabel went over to call upon her aunt, but the confinement and feverishness of a sick room was no place for her. 
               On every fine day the low carriage is seen at Miss Carter's door, and out steps the young girl, always with some delicacies, until at length her presence became a necessity to Aunt Sophia. 
               Under her cheerful ministry Miss Carter really seemed better. Doctor Winston pronounced her symptoms much more favorable. 
               Ethel is very fond too of her baby brother, but her sister is cold and ungracious still. 
               Miss Granby's discernment understands the secret springs of Isabel's coldness, and when suitable occasions offer, warns the young lady of the wickedness of such emotions. 
               "Beware, Isabel, how you indulge these feelings of dislike to your little brother," said the lady. 
               "Who says that I dislike the baby?" said Isabel. 
                
               "It is very manifest; I don't see how you can help loving such a sweet babe; he is your brother, Isabel." 
               "Not altogether, Miss Granby, we have not the same mother." 
               "Who sent him into this world, Isabel?" 
               "I suppose the same God is what you mean." 
               "It is, Isabel, and it is your duty to love him." 
               "Not so easy, Miss Granby, when he comes to take away my inheritance." 
               "Will you analyze that feeling, Isabel?" 
               "I am not gifted in that way, Miss Granby." 
               "Listen, and I will do it for you. You envy this sweet babe's inheritance, Ethel's share in her father's estate, and her personal loveliness; that is the feeling, Isabel; envy-the most bitter of human passions." 
               Isabel was pale with anger. 
               "I don't know by what right you presume to talk to me in this way, Miss Granby; you are not my governess now, thank goodness!" 
               "I know that, Isabel, but I was once, and may be supposed to retain some interest in my former pupil. I have no evil motives, my child, but some one must hold up the mirror, that you may see this moral deformity; perhaps you may learn to abhor it. I know that you are very angry now, but I hope that it will not always be so. I can wait, Isabel; good influences are working here silently, but powerfully; and I believe that you will not always be what you are now. I can wait." 
               The young lady is so much interested in her new projects, that she has not much time for Aunt Sophia's sick room. 
               She is very busy, and one unacquainted with her character might imagine that a change was passing over her moral nature. 
               Miss Granby is not thus deceived. 
               She smiles therefore when she sees her so intently occupied with a pair of slippers that she is working for Ernest. 
               Ethel is pleased, for she thinks that they will be so nice for Ernest when he goes to college. 
               "Is it not good in Isabel to spend her time working for Ernest?" said Ethel to Miss Granby. 
               "Perhaps so," was the slow reply. 
               "She seems so much interested in the Sunday-school now and so busy among the poor people, Miss Granby." 
               "Does she?" replied the lady. 
               "Then she is kinder to me than she used to be," continued Ethel; "if she only learns to love me as a sister, I should be so happy." 
               "Persevere, Ethel, in your life of patient love, and who knows what a beautiful fabric may quietly be woven here?" 
               "I can Wait and trust, Miss Granby, because I pray all the time that our Father in heaven may send his Spirit of faith and love into Isabel's heart." 
               And thus the web of Isabel's spiritual life was woven-as yet the silver threads invisible. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               ISABEL'S DBUT. 
               ISABEL is now eighteen-a handsome, showy girl, looking with an eager eye into the gay world that she hopes soon to enter. 
               Mr. Ashton proposes to give a ball; Isabel is charmed, nor can she conceal her interest in the preparations. In the excitement, Sunday-school and the poor people are neglected; Mrs. Ashton regrets the step, for she heartily sympathizes with extracts read so often in the mother's journal, in her views of Christian education. 
               It is a sacred manuscript stored away, and many a time has the good stepmother shed tears over its hopes and plans and prayers for her children. 
               But the father has yielded to the young lady's persuasions, and the preparations proceed. 
               The neighboring gentry are all invited, and many guests in high life are to accompany the Harcourts, who are coming to spend a week. 
               On the evening before the ball, papa sent for Isabel to the library, and opening a casket, bade her select a set of her mother's jewels. 
                
               She chose emeralds set in diamonds. 
               Ethel is delighted. 
               "They are just the set for you, Isabel; how beautiful they are! they are so very becoming." 
               "I wonder if papa is not going to give you a set, Ethel?" 
               "Not just yet, Isabel; I am too young to wear jewelry." 
               "But don't you really care for such things?" said the young lady rather incredulously. 
               "I would like the brooch mamma used to wear every day, Isabel." 
               "Why, that is not beautiful, Ethel." 
               "No, but it is precious to me because mamma wore it constantly." 
               Miss Carter is on a visit to the Park, and we find Ethel very frequently in her room, seeking refuge from the frivolity of the London guests. 
               She is welcome now, for her gentle offices are becoming not only grateful but necessary to the invalid. 
               The family are all surprised when they find Miss Sophia actually preparing for Isabel's ball. 
               "Are you not afraid of the excitement, Sophia?" asked Mr. Ashton. 
               "I shall not move about, but I must be present on that occasion; the disappointment would hurt me more than being a mere spectator; so don't hinder me; Richard." 
               The evening has arrived, and in full dress, Isabel presented herself in her aunt's room. 
               "How lovely, Isabel! you look like a young queen." 
               Ethel, too, was present in a simple embroidered muslin, with moss rosebuds in her soft brown hair. 
               Mrs. Bond and Kathleen are peeping in at the two. 
               "Isn't Miss Ethel the sweetest creature that ever was seen?" said Kathleen. 
               "She is the very image of her mother," was the reply; "just such soft hazel eyes and lovely face." 
               "Isn't her dress beautiful, and it didn't cost half so much as Miss Isabel's lace." 
               Ethel is charmed with her sister's stately beauty; and advancing, presents a lovely bouquet: 
               "I arranged that all myself, Isabel," said the young girl; "you will wear it for my sake, won't you?" 
               "Certainly, child, if it will please you." 
               But on descending to the drawing-room, she was much more pleased with the bouquet presented by Ernest; the one she carried in her hand, the other she placed on her bosom. 
               The guests are rapidly arriving, and Isabel's vanity is gratified for once as she hears expressions of admiration everywhere around her. 
               But her pleasure is marred; first, because neither Ernest nor Ethel dance, and are therefore much together. 
               Then, turn where she will, Isabel overhears remarks on her sister's loveliness, and that was not a pleasant theme at any time. 
               Even Matilda Harcourt torments her with expressions of admiration. 
               "Just look at Ethel," said Matilda; "did you ever see a lovelier face than that?" 
               "It is just a baby face, Matilda," was the reply. 
               "I don't see how you can say so, Isabel; intelligence sparkles in every glance; Ernest seems to think so, at all events." 
               "He regards her as a very innocent child, Matilda; quite like a little sister." 
               "Why don't he dance, Isabel?" 
               "He has some religious scruples, I presume; and it is such a pity; these notions make him quite a bore, sometimes." 
               "We are not troubled in that way at St. Michael's; we are only required to abstain at Lent and on the fast-days. 
               "How is it during those seasons, Matilda? It seems to me that the heart must be hankering after them all the time, if they are only denied at certain seasons." 
               "I rather think that is the truth, Isabel, for I can assure you that I, for one, am glad when Lent is over." 
               Neither knew experimentally the power of that new birth, which declares "old things are done away, and all things have become new," nor the sweetness of the hymn which real Christians sing truly, 
                      
                        "Let worldly minds the world pursue- 
                        It has no charms for me." 
                     
                  
                
               In a niche of a large window, at the end of a small room communicating with the suite of apartments, Ernest and Ethel are watching the dancers. 
               "I like the music; don't you, Ernest?" asked the young girl. 
               "Yes, it is very animating, for it is a fine band." 
               "But it is a giddy scene, Ernest; I don't feel at all like one of them, do you?" 
               "Not at all, Ethel, we have vowed to live for a better purpose than devotion to a God-forgetting world." 
               "Do you know what I have been thinking about as I sit here?" 
               "I suppose some very interesting thoughts, Ethel." 
               "Though the music is so lovely and the scene so gay, the words of the hymn keep coming: 
                  
                      
                        "As by the light of opening day 
                        The stars are all concealed, 
                        So earthly pleasure fades away 
                        When Jesus is revealed." 
                     
                  
                
               And thus the two communed together in the midst of Vanity Fair. 
               Next day, assembled in the drawing-room, the talk turned upon the evening before. 
               "Why don't you dance, Ernest?" inquired Isabel. 
               "In the first place, I do not consider balls consistent with the practice of a true Christian; and, secondly, I have no taste for such amusements." 
               "Don't you think something due to the customs of refined society, Ernest." 
               "Certainly, I do; but not the encouragement of amusements so destructive of spirituality as giddy balls." 
               "I suppose that they are not exactly right for a minister, Ernest; but there is some allowance to be made for private members." 
               "I did not say that I am to be a minister, Isabel, but the same holiness is required of private members as of clergymen." 
               "I fear, then, that I am very far from being a Christian, Ernest, for I cannot give up these charming amusements." 
               "If you were renewed in heart, Isabel, you would not desire such pleasures; higher enjoyments would destroy the taste." 
               "Why don't you dance, Ethel?" continued her sister; "I suppose that it is because Ernest does not." 
               "You are mistaken, sister. When I was confirmed, I renewed the solemn vow made for me at my baptism; when I renounced the pomps and vanities of this wicked world, I meant it, Isabel; and then I was reading the other day in dear mamma's journal, and there I saw what she desired for us both." 
               "Well, Ethel, you are welcome to your choice; the bright and beautiful world for me." 
               "And for me too, Isabel, but in a sweeter way; for when I look out upon the lovely things of earth, I can say, 'My Father made them all.'" 
               "Too high for me; good-bye; come, girls," turning to several who were amusing themselves at the piano, "let us have a game at croquet." 
               Out upon the lawn, the gay party were soon deep in the graceful game. 
               Let us for a moment follow the Harcourts to their own room, and listen to the talk there. 
               "I wonder if they are right," said Matilda, to her sister. "If so, how far astray are we." 
               "There is something very impressive in one so young, so earnest and gifted as Ernest Rutgers," replied plied Charlotte; "and then he seems so happy in his separation from the gayeties of the world." 
               "And that sweet little Ethel! how interesting she is! But it does seem such a shame that one so lovely should be lost to the gay world; she would shine as a star of the first magnitude in London." 
               "But still I can't help wondering if they are not right; there is a great deal in the Bible about 'coming out from the world,' and being 'new creatures;' what can it all mean? both cannot be right, I am sure of that." 
               But there is a noise outside the door, and Jane, Miss, Carter's maid, is flying down the staircase. 
               "My mistress is very ill," said the girl; "I am going for the doctor." 
               The excitement of the night before had been too much, and a very dangerous attack of heart-disease was the result. 
               When the girls entered the room, the windows were all thrown open, and, propped up by pillows, Miss Carter was laboring frightfully for breath. 
               Mrs. Ashton and Ethel were near her, the former applying such restoratives as were within her reach. Isabel was standing by the window, too much alarmed to look upon her aunt. 
               Doctor Winston was soon upon the spot. 
               "These attacks are very dangerous, madam," said the physician, addressing Mrs. Ashton; "there must have been some exciting cause." 
               "She was present at Isabel's ball last night, doctor," was the reply, "much against my judgment and advice." 
               "Positively ruinous, madam; she has a dangerous disease of the heart, liable at any moment to sudden death." 
               Active remedies were resorted to, and after some hours there were signs of returning consciousness, but great debility followed, and a darkened, quiet room was positively ordered. 
               Now it was that Ethel's tenderness and fidelity were manifest, for Isabel had no taste for a sick room, and, surrounded as she was by gay company, a visit every morning was deemed sufficient to satisfy her sleepy conscience. 
               It was to Ethel that Aunt Sophia looked for comfort, and when the young girl found herself greeted by a look of affection, she began to hope that she had not waited and trusted in vain. 
               Miss Garter was recovering now, and could sit up for a few hours each day, but often thoughtful. 
               "Prospect Hill will seem very lonesome, Ethel, after such kind attentions," said the lady; "but how is it, child, that you can act as you do toward your aunt?" 
               "First, Aunt Sophia, it is my duty to be kind to every one, and then it is my pleasure to wait upon you, for you are dear mamma's sister, you know." 
               Miss Carter took the hand that was extended toward her, and gently patting it, said, 
               "Do you know, Ethel, that I am beginning to love you?" 
               The soft eyes filled with tears, as she replied, 
               "I am happy, dear aunt, to hear that, for I have so often wondered why you were not glad when I came back, and have been so tired of waiting for the love to come." 
               "Can you forget all the past, Ethel, and be my gentle nurse while I live." 
               "I will try to, Aunt Sophia." 
               "But what shall I do when I return to Prospect Hill?" 
               "Perhaps you may not go, aunt." 
               "How so, Ethel?" 
               "I have a plan, but don't ask me just now." 
               At the close of the day we find Ethel in the library, where papa is occupied with accounts. 
               "Are you busy, papa?" inquired the visitor. 
               "Not too busy to talk to you, Ethel; what is in your wise little head now?" 
               "I have been thinking about Aunt Sophia, papa; I am so sorry for her; the doctor says that she can never be well again, and it seems so hard to send her away among strangers." 
               "And so you want her here, Ethel, to make us all unhappy again?" 
               "I, am sure that she won't do that any more, papa, she is so different; she loves me now, and I know that she would be very unhappy to leave us." 
               "You shall be gratified, Ethel, for it would be inhuman to send her away now." 
               Jane was despatched to Mrs. Lawton's to bring over all Miss Carter's valuables and the various comforts that had been provided for her rooms; and when all was arranged, and Miss Carter seated in her easy-chair, Ethel paid her visit. 
               "You see, Aunt Sophia, I told you that you were not to return to Mrs. Lawton's, and I was right." 
               "I know whom to thank; not Isabel, but Ethel." 
               "Now you can be comfortable, aunt, the doctor is so near us, and papa in the house, if you should be taken suddenly sick; but you are really better, aunt, and I am going to take you to ride this afternoon." 
               "You are a dear, good child, Ethel, and I shall not forget you." 
               The young girl was very careful to exercise the influence thus obtained for the spiritual good of her aunt; consequently, we find her every day reading some good book in the invalid's room, made very happy by seeing her daily read the blessed Word of God. 
               She is daily improving now, and whenever the weather is suitable, accompanies our young friend to the house of God, where she seems to listen eagerly to the gospel of glad tidings. 
               Isabel has been so constantly engrossed by the Harcourts that she has had but little time for her aunt; but Mr. Ashton has renewed the promise of allowing the girls to pass a season in London, after both have completed their education. 
               The Harcourts have returned home, and Isabel is dull and listless after all the excitement of their visit is over. 
               Ethel is conscious of a feeling of universal love, and wonders if Isabel will ever learn to regard her with affection. 
               She tries all sorts of innocent methods by which to win her love, but thus far without success, although Isabel is sometimes ashamed of herself. 
               One morning Ethel is seen among the flowers-it is spring; birds are warbling everywhere; the thrush is singing on the laurustinus, flowers are bowing their pretty heads to the fresh spring breeze, the clouds are chasing each other in silvery groups through the sky, lambs are frisking in an adjoining field, and all nature seems astir with joy. 
                
               Isabel passes by Ethel, who calls to her, offering her a bunch of spring flowers. 
               But the offerer is too lovely in appearance to excite aught but bitter envy, and Isabel is turning coldly away. 
               Ethel drops her flowers, and winding her arms around her sister, whispers, 
               "Love me, Isabel, I have waited so long;" but no answer comes from the proud lips as she turns away without one word of reply. 
               Just then Ernest joined them, his first salutation to Ethel increasing the bitterness in Isabel's heart. 
               "Busy among the flowers, little Flora? you look very much like their queen yourself; don't she, Isabel?" 
               No response came from the closed lips, and he continued, 
               "Are you not fond of flowers, Isabel?" 
               "Sometimes; I like them well enough, but roses prick my fingers, and I can't say that I like that very much." 
               "Won't you ride out with us this afternoon, Isabel? we are going to Laneton." 
               "No, thank you; I don't much care for horseback rides; the carriage suits me best." 
               In another minute, Isabel had turned back; into the house. 
                
               Reaching her own room, she perceives the two walking down the avenue toward the lodge, chatting pleasantly together. 
               Isabel blushes at her thoughts, for she wishes her sweet sister dead, and tries to recall all that she has heard of her delicate infancy. 
               Ethel is talking to Ernest, and wondering why her sister does not love her: 
               "But Miss Granby tells me not to be discouraged, Ernest, for she thinks by patient waiting I shall overcome at last." 
               "I think so too, Ethel; you have conquered Aunt Sophia by your gentle weapons, and you will find your sister yet." 
               Ethel is now sixteen. Miss Granby thinks it advisable to send her from home to complete her education. 
               The young girl talks the matter over with papa, mamma advises it, and she yields. 
               Aunt Sophia is the chief objector, for she knows now what she will lose in her niece. 
               Ethel is sorry to part with the dear ones at home, especially baby Edward, who has learned to love sister and lisps her name so sweetly. 
               She is grieved too, to part with Ernest, for there is community of spirit there, as well as the tender bond of early ties. 
                
               The two take their last walk to the cliff, a favorite place of resort, and the young spirits subdued by the thought of parting. 
               It is a high point that overlooks the entrance to the ocean; all along the ridge back of the shore stand many handsome residences, and the landscape is picturesque and lovely. 
               They seat themselves on the highest point of the cliff, looking out for some minutes in silence upon the broad expanse of ocean. 
               "What are you thinking of, Ethel?" asked her companion. 
               "Do you see how dim and misty the sea looks in the distance? I was just thinking how much lies beyond the horizon of which we know nothing; that is the way the future looks to me, Ernest-all is shadowy and dim." 
               "Yes, Ethel, to the eye of sense it is so, but not to the eye of faith, for amid all the misty shadows, One is moving whose hand of power and love is guiding every step of our way in our pilgrimage." 
               "Then, Ernest, that is all that we need to know of the future, if we can always remember the presence of our God and Saviour." 
               "It will be a long while ere we shall sit here again, Ethel; you are going away to school, and I shall leave ere long for college. Keep close to the hand of our common Saviour', Ethel, and he will hold you up, that your footsteps slip not." 
               "I have many things to make me happy, Ernest, but one sore trial here at the Park. I have striven in vain to win my sister's love; won't you try to warm her heart toward me when I am away." 
               "I will try, Ethel, but affection must come involuntarily; it can never be forced." 
               "While you stay, be kind to Aaron and Margaret, Ernest; they are growing old, and will miss me so much." 
               "I can easily promise that, Ethel; it is a pleasant place to visit, they are so sincere and humble in their new character as Christians." 
               Slowly they walked homeward, and there were many grieved when the next morning came, for it was the day of Ethel's departure. 
               "Good-bye, Miss Ethel," said Mrs. Bond; "the house won't seem the same when you are gone." 
               Kathleen stood by, weeping. 
               "What shall I do without my young lady?" said the girl; "she is the very light of my eyes, and I sha'n't see her for six months yet." 
               Aunt Sophia was most grieved, for she felt that the light had gone out of her room when Ethel was absent. 
               Isabel, however, can scarcely conceal her satisfaction faction, for now she will have the ground all to herself. 
               Ernest is to stay several weeks ere he is ready for Oxford, and Isabel interests herself in all his pursuits; pretends to listen to his praises of Ethel with pleasure, but occasionally drops disparaging remarks. 
               Ernest begins to think there is hope of a change in Isabel, and is therefore much associated with the young lady, giving his time to Isabel, but his affections to Ethel. 
               But the weeks fly rapidly by, and Ernest has taken his departure for Oxford, well supplied with numerous little comforts by the hands of Isabel, wishing all the time that Daisy had provided them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THREADS AND THRUMS. 
               IT is dull at the Park without the presence of the two most attractive members of the family. Isabel is quite at a loss for some excitement; she therefore writes frequently to Ernest, for he has politely requested to hear from her while absent. 
               An extract will show how artfully she is trying to produce coolness between the two: 
               "Ethel is at home for the vacation, gay and merry as a lark, for Howard Ross has just returned from college. 
               "I do not think that you have ever met him; he is a very handsome youth, a great admirer of Ethel, and she seems quite pleased with his attentions. Indeed, they are together daily, either riding, walking, sketching or singing; for he is fond of music, and has a delightful voice. I am seldom of the party, for you know that in such cases three is no company. 
               "He is not religious, but you know that Ethel is such a saint that she will soon bring him over to her way of thinking-at all events, to her way of acting. 
               "But enough of my sister. 
                
               "I suppose that you will wish to hear something about Robert Jenks, the boy in whom you were so much interested. He is getting better of his lameness, and is never tired of speaking of you. He reads his Bible daily, and Mr. Tremaine thinks that he is in a fair way to-become a Christian. I have not forgotten my promise, and have read the Gospels entirely through. Nor do I forget the parish poor, nor my children in the Sunday-school. 
               We miss you very much at the Park; it is such a pity that your vacation does not occur at the same time with Ethel's. 
               "But she does not seem at a loss for a substitute, so long as Howard Ross is here. Don't think that Ethel is forgetting you; she will always be a good little sister to you, I am sure. I hope you will like Howard, for Ethel would not wish to displease you with regard to this intimacy. 
               "Do write soon, and tell us all about your pursuits; your letters are always useful and welcome to your friend, Isabel." 
               Isabel had written much that was true, but she had put her own gloss upon the intimacy with Howard Ross, carefully concealing the fact that in all these daily recreations his two sisters were always in the company, and that although the youth certainly did regard Ethel with more than friendship, there was nothing on her part but the regard felt for one whom she had known ever since her return to England. 
               While she enlarged also upon her continued interest in good works, she did not tell what a gay visit she had paid to the Harcourts in London, and how utterly tame everything at the Park had appeared ever since. 
               Ernest read the letter with a very serious countenance; laying it down upon the table, he continued for an hour with head bowed down and thoughtful face. 
               The reference to Howard Ross had poured a flood of light upon the nature of his attachment to Ethel Ashton, and he felt that he was no more a brother to the young girl. 
               But now he would not disturb her happiness, and if she really did regard Howard with more than friendship, he would hide his secret in his bosom, and Ethel should be happy. And thus a shadow arose between the two young hearts. 
               Ernest writes still to Ethel, but not so frequently as formerly. 
               He does not call her Daisy now; the letters are still kind and full of brotherly advice, but they are not what they were, and Ethel is troubled. 
               Then Isabel's letters were so full of Ernest, and the good works in which both are engaged when he is at the Park, so much about his interest in her music, her reading, and even her dress. 
               Ethel reads with strangely disturbed emotions. 
               She is sorely dissatisfied with herself-the peace of firmer days is gone. 
               If Ernest Rutgers is really so much interested in her sister, what right has she to complain? 
               If Isabel is beginning to think of eternal things, ought she not to be glad? and if Ernest is the instrument, ought she not to be still more happy? 
               These thoughts trouble her night and day; they disturb her hours of devotion, awaken improper feelings toward Isabel, and sometimes toward Ernest. 
               There is no more smooth, harmonious weaving in the young, girl's web; threads and thrums, rough and jagged, are marring the beauty of the spiritual tissue. 
               The correspondence is still kept up between the two, but the freedom of perfect confidence has departed. 
               And so the weary months wear on. 
               Ethel is now eighteen, and has left school; she has returned a lovely Christian girl, but there is a sobriety which often amounts to sadness about her aspect. 
                
               Isabel affects to welcome her, but she is not really happy at her sister's return. 
               But there is one source of joy, for Ethel finds that dear papa is in constant attendance upon Mr. Tremaine's ministry, and Aunt Sophia much more thoughtful than formerly. 
               The Park is full of brightness, for Ethel is at home. 
               Little Edward is as merry as a kitten, Mrs. Bond supremely contented, and Kathleen herself again; the old people full of joy at their darling's return-all happy but Isabel. 
               Papa wishes to celebrate the event, not by a ball (for that would not please Ethel), but by a party of young friends out of doors. 
               There is quite a large number assembled, and nothing will do but Ethel must be crowned Queen of May. 
               So out under the laurustinus, the pretty ceremony was performed. 
               Nothing could be more lovely than the appearance of the young girl. 
               Not so tall as Isabel, her light and graceful figure was clad in a dress of thin white muslin, decorated by white roses, and no other ornament in her beautiful hair but the same lovely flowers. Her mother's set of pearls was worn for the first time, and a buzz of admiration greeted the young girl as she bent her head to be crowned by Howard Ross, who was allowed that honor. 
               Aaron and Margaret are both present, rejoicing in the admiration bestowed upon their darling. 
               While the court are singing their coronation song, there is a carriage driving into the gate; alighting there, a young man is seen advancing, and stopping under the laurustinus, Ethel is overjoyed to recognize the companion of her childhood standing suddenly before her. 
               He has not seen Ethel for nearly two years-she is a woman now; young and lovely, with the sweet blush of modesty upon her face. 
               There would have been cordiality in their meeting, had it not been that Howard Ross stood close by the crowned queen, and Ernest felt who it must be. 
               Ethel rose from her seat, and extending her hand, greeted him with the warmth of former days. 
               But there was coldness in the salutation; and Ethel, pained, returned quietly to her seat. 
               A shadow had fallen upon the festivities, and the May Queen was glad when the last guest departed and left her alone to commune with her own spirit. 
               What could have chilled Ernest toward his young companion? This question agitated Ethel far on into the silent night, but she felt that this was unprofitable able musing, and with trusting, humble prayer for guidance, for patience, for usefulness, she fell asleep, leaving all in the hands of her wise heavenly Father. 
               The two met more cordially in the morning, and the old habit of consulting Ernest returned so powerfully, that ere she was aware Ethel was telling him of her employments, her pleasures and her plans. 
               "There is one thing that I know will please you," said the young girl; "I have been taking lessons on the organ, and papa thinks that I have made good progress." 
               "Let me hear some of your performance, Ethel;" and leading the way to the small room at the end of the large suite, she seated herself at the instrument and commenced playing. 
               "You used to sing a fine tenor, Ernest; can't you join me in some of these hymns?" 
               "I will try," was the reply. 
               And soon the sweet harmony filled the rooms, bringing Isabel to see what was going on at the end of the apartments. 
               It was not a pleasant sight, and she soon turned away. 
               The practising continued for a couple of hours, and so much engrossed were the performers, that they were not aware of the presence of a third party, until a King Charles spaniel came bounding into the room after Howard Ross, who was seated near the window. 
               After a few minutes' conversation, Ernest arose and hastily left the room, leaving Ethel alone with the young man. 
               The rest of the day was one of constraint, for Ernest was sure now that Isabel's hints were all true. 
               Mrs. Harcourt has claimed the fulfillment of the promise to allow the young ladies to spend a season together in London. 
               Ethel dreads the ordeal for it is a completely worldly family that she is to visit; but Isabel is full of bright anticipations. 
               Ernest shortens his visit, but ere his departure we find him, in the character of a faithful friend, warning Ethel: 
               "You have never been exposed to the fascinations of the world, Ethel, and you do not know how much power they may exert over you; but do not forget the vow in Skipton church; remember that you are the Lord's, and seek to-adorn the doctrine of God your Saviour in all things." 
               "I do not wish to go, Ernest, but papa says that he must keep his promise to Aunt Harcourt; but I rest upon the word of God, (As thy day, so shall thy strength be.'" 
                
               "You will write to me, Ethel, in your absence, will you not?" 
               The dark eyes filled with tears as she replied, 
               "Certainly, Ernest; but do not write such formal letters to your little sea-shore friend; you never call me Daisy, now." 
               Ernest was silent for a moment, almost on the point of explaining all, but another minute's reflection sealed his lips; for why should he disturb Daisy's innocent happiness? 
               "Did I write formal letters, Ethel? I did not mean to, for my interest is just the same." 
               "When do you leave, Ernest?" she inquired. 
               "To-morrow, early; I wish to be at college at the opening of the term; so that I must bid you farewell, to-night, as I have my trunk to pack;" then laying his hand tenderly upon the bowed head, he continued, 
               "God for ever bless you, little Daisy, and keep you unspotted from the world!" 
               "Farewell, Ernest; pray for me when I am far away." 
               "I never forget that, Daisy; but I must go now; it is growing late, and I must be off very early." 
               He hurried from the room, and Ethel sat some minutes, thinking how she should miss the kindness of that dear, faithful friend. 
               It was scarcely daybreak when Ernest Rutgers left the Park, but there was a sad face at a chamber window, looking out while others slept, and he knew that it was Daisy's. Lifting his hat, he bowed farewell; raising the window softly, the little white hand waved adieu. 
               The sky was yet gray and dreary. Ethel seated herself at the window, listening to the receding carriage; gradually the rosy dawn appeared above the tree-tops, the merry carols of the birds commenced, the old rooks began their noisy preparations for the day, but the gray veil hung yet upon the youthful watcher, notwithstanding the glories of a bright sunrise spreading over tree and flower. 
               The preparations for the London visit are hurried forward, and, Accompanied by Mr. Ashton, the sisters take leave of mamma and the quiet pleasures of the Park. 
               Ethel had never before visited so large a city, and the vastness and bustle of the metropolis were all new features to her wondering eyes. 
               Toward evening, the carriage drew up to Harcourt House. It was a large brownstone building, in the midst of the most fashionable part of the great city. 
               The entrance was imposing; a flight of high stone steps, with large lamps on either side, large windows hung heavily with rich curtains, and a fine vestibule of marble ornamented with statues, gave Ethel some idea of the grandeur of a city residence. 
               Ushered in by a waiter in livery, they were met by a second in the hall, who escorted them into the reception-room, where the mother and daughters were in waiting. 
               "This is charming," said Charlotte Harcourt; "you have just come in time for a very gay season, girls, and I have announced your coming to several of my friends, who are going to give the most stylish balls of the season." 
               "You look remarkably well, Ethel," said Mrs. Harcourt, addressing the young girl, "but you must be very tired." 
               Ringing the bell, the travelers were conducted to their rooms by a waiter, and, once shut in, they were glad to disrobe. 
               "We do not dine until six," said Charlotte; "we have a few friends with us this evening; my maid, Susette, will wait upon you." 
               Ethel was surprised to see a very tasty-looking young person present herself as lady's-maid, and selecting a simple dress, she was soon in readiness for dinner. 
               Isabel was not so easily pleased; she desired to make some display of her handsome wardrobe, but was afraid of being too much dressed; finally a blue silk with low neck and short sleeves was selected. 
               There were several ladies and gentlemen at dinner, belonging to the bon-ton, evidently charmed with the loveliness of the younger, whose quiet dignity and sweetness of manners rendered her attractive in any society. 
               Ethel felt she was in the midst of a most worldly atmosphere, for the opera, the last ball, marriages in high life and the fashions were all in turn discussed. After dinner, the party withdrew to the drawing-room, the card-tables were brought out, and Ethel invited to join the players. 
               "You really must excuse me," said the young lady. "I have no knowledge of such games." 
               "We can soon teach you," replied Charlotte. 
               "I must decline, Charlotte," was the reply, and in a low voice continued, I do not approve of the amusement." 
               The company stayed until a late hour, and Ethel retired to her room, oppressed by the atmosphere around her. 
               She had been an early riser at home, but here all was reversed. The morning after her arrival, she had been up two hours ere there was any sound of moving in the house. 
               Straying down into the library, she found one of the waiters just opening the windows; seating herself at the table, she occupied the time in reading, for here was a large and valuable collection of books. 
               It was near ten o'clock, before the family all assembled at the breakfast-table. 
               Aunt Harcourt proposed a drive in the park and a shopping excursion for the morning occupation, and after some hours of unprofitable lounging, the carriage drove up to the door, and the party joined the gay equipages that were taking an airing. 
               Many fashionable people recognized the Harcourts as acquaintances, and Charlotte remarked that "they must remain at home for a few days at the hour of receiving calls, for doubtless there would be many." 
               Ethel soon found herself in one of the celebrated London stores, where the ladies were deeply engaged in giving orders for dresses and other articles of a young lady's outfit. 
               Mr. Ashton had directed his sister to spare no expense in providing his daughters with a suitable wardrobe, and Isabel indulged her taste for the elegant and costly to the fullest extent; but Ethel, true to her principles, made a few simple purchases, such as became a young Christian lady. 
               "Why, my dear," said her aunt, "you have forgotten your opera cloak and glass." 
                
               "I shall need neither, aunt, for I do not attend the opera." 
               "And why not, pray? Don't you admire fine music, Ethel?" 
               "Passionately, dear aunt; but there is too much of the spirit of the world in the accompaniments to agree with the spirit of a Christian." 
               "And so, Ethel, you really are among the Methodists?" 
               "Who are they, aunt?" 
               "A fanatical crew, who set themselves above real church people, affecting a superior sanctity." 
               "I have never met with any, dear aunt, for in America I never heard of any such, and at the Park my associations have been altogether with good Mr. Tremaine, one of the most humble of Christian men." 
               "We call all Methodists who cry out against the innocent amusements of the world, they are so pharisaical." 
               I have always thought that the vow in our confirmation service must have some meaning when it calls upon us Jo renounce the vain pomps of this wicked world; and I have concluded that whatever hinders our spirituality must belong to that class of things renounced." 
               "You will make yourself ridiculous, Ethel, in the gay metropolis by such non-conformity to the customs of the world." 
               "I don't think that any will trouble themselves' much about such a little, humble person as I; only let me be quiet at home." 
               We find the three young ladies in Isabel's room, engaged in discussing the beauties of some of their purchases, which have just been sent home. 
               Isabel is trying on a tasty head-gear at the glass. 
               "Isn't this a love of a little bonnet?" said the young lady. 
               "Very becoming to you, coz," said Charlotte; "but what kind of a hat has Ethel chosen, do you think?" 
               "I think that she is simply absurd," replied Isabel, "with that simple hat, just fit for a milkmaid." 
               "I don't agree with you, Isabel," remarked Matilda; "I think that it suits the purity of Ethel's face exactly; that little tuft of marabout feathers Js exquisite." 
               "I tell you, girls, that she will never get over the low tastes acquired in America; how could it be otherwise?" 
               "That can never apply to Ethel," replied Matilda, "and you know it." 
               "I cannot understand her at all," said Charlotte; "with the opportunity of mingling in the very highest walks of London life, and with wealth enough to indulge in every extravagance, here she is preferring the quiet pleasures of home, and I really think would be better pleased to employ her time in working for charity children, rather than go to the most splendid ball of the season." 
               "Every one to her taste," said Isabel, as, tossing a lace veil on the dressing-table, she threw herself on the soft cushions of a low rocking-chair and commenced humming a light opera air. 
               Ethel finds that if she yields to all the waste of time attendant upon family regulations at Harcourt House, she may soon bid adieu to all peace of mind; so at a very early stage of her visit, we find her laying down her plans for the occupation of vacant hours. 
               There are many objects of interest to see, and Edward Harcourt is always ready to accompany his cousin. 
               Aware of her father's fondness for music, she engaged the services of one of the best masters, and commenced a course of instruction on the organ, and thus disposed of some leisure. 
               Every morning, therefore, ere the family assembled around the breakfast-table, two hours were devoted to the instrument, and in the study of some of the finest German compositions, she found exquisite delight and profit. 
               Ethel was quite at a loss about going to church, for the first Sunday in London was too cloudy, and the family remained at home; but on the second, it was announced that they would attend morning service at St. Michael's. 
               The young stranger found herself in a most singular place of Protestant worship, shocked by the surpliced boys in procession and recession, gorgeously robed priests, candles at the altar, genuflexions without number, the beautifully simple service of the Church of England mumbled in dreary, drawling tones that really seemed like mockery. 
               And then the sermon, short, dry, husky-not one grain of the children's bread; and Ethel went home hungry and depressed, her very spirit crying out, "We would see Jesus." "You have taken away my Lord, and I know not where you have laid him." 
               "How did you like the services, Ethel?" inquired her aunt on their way home. 
               "They were not at all like the sweet and simple services at Skipton church, aunt; I could scarcely believe that they were from our Book of Common Prayer." 
               "We have something better than that bald service, my dear; our rector uses the Directorium Anglicanum, and many of the old Latin hymns." 
               "I thought, aunt, that the rubric enjoined upon Episcopalians to use the Book of Common Prayer at public service." 
               "It does not forbid the Directorium, Ethel." 
               "That seems to take us back to the old days that made martyrs for their new and more spiritual faith, aunt." 
               "Yes, Ethel, I know; but I begin to think that they were very foolish men to burn for such things." 
               "It did not seem to me like Christian worship, aunt; I should have thought that; I was in a Roman Catholic church, if I had not known better." 
               "You must own that the music was very fine, Ethel." 
               "Yes, aunt, to listen to, but I did not see many people joining in the worship." 
               "You are a little Puritan, Ethel; we must try to make a good Catholic of you, child." 
               "I hope that I am that already, aunt," said her niece, smiling, "for I repeat every Sunday, heartily, that I believe in the Holy Catholic Church." 
               "What do you understand by that, Ethel!" 
               "The whole body of spiritual believers throughout the world; that innumerable company of the invisible ble Church militant, that I hope to meet in the Church triumphant." 
               "What, Ethel! the whole body of dissenters!" 
               "The whole body, dear aunt, of evangelical Christians throughout the world-all who believe in and love my Saviour." 
               "Incorrigible Ethel! where did you get your notions from, child?" 
               "From God's precious word I hope, dear aunt." 
               Company arrived at Harcourt House in the evening; dancing and cards were dispensed with, but the tone of society was eminently worldly, and Ethel excused herself at an early hour, seeking the good housekeeper's room ere she retired, for she had found that there was a sick niece under Mrs. Joyce's care, one of the chambermaids and her own relation. 
               "I came to inquire after Susan," said the young lady, seating herself by the bedside. 
               "She is not much better, Miss Ethel," was the reply. 
               The poor girl lay weak and languid; panting for breath, for she was in the last stage of consumption. 
               Ethel took the thin, pale hand burning with fever, and pressing it between her own, whispered, 
               "I hope that you have the comfort of a Saviour's presence, Susan." 
               The sick girl smiled and replied, 
                
               "He is my all-in-all; I did not care for him as I should have done when I was well, but I have proved his power to save on this sick bed." 
               "Susan was a very giddy girl once, Miss Ethel, but she used to go sometimes with me to chapel, where good Mr. Carroll preaches, and there she heard the simple truth." 
               "Where is the chapel, Mrs. Joyce?" inquired Ethel. 
               "About eight squares from here, miss." 
               "Can I go with you sometimes, Mrs. Joyce?" 
               "If Mrs. Harcourt is willing." 
               "I don't think that I need ask; I am old enough certainly to go under your care." 
               The next Sunday proved to be another cloudy day, and Ethel was glad of the opportunity to accompany Mrs. Joyce, while Hannah, the other chambermaid, stayed with Susan. Here was indeed a spiritual ministry with the simple services of her own dear church, and Ethel felt that she had found a church-home in London. 
               Mrs. Harcourt was much scandalized on learning that her niece had actually accompanied the housekeeper on foot to a chapel, that she esteemed not much better than a conventicle, and expressed her disapprobation so strongly, that Ethel was obliged to depend in future upon Edward Harcourt, a good-natured natured lad of sixteen, to accompany her, for this was her place of worship during her stay in London. 
               While Isabel was running a complete round of gayety from ball to party, from opera to theatre, Ethel devoted her leisure to reading, music and visiting places of interest; she had found a vocation in her aunt's house, for much of her time was spent by the side of -Susan Joyce, comforting her singing for her, and cheering many a lonely hour when her aunt was busy. Here too she was weaving her silver-threads of faith and hope and love. 
               Ethel was not unmindful of the claims of society, especially her aunt's friends, and was particular to return their acts of courtesy; certain families she could visit socially, letting it be understood that in all cases she must be excused from gay balls and parties. 
               She frequently accepted invitations to dinner, and her artless, unobtrusive manners, her bright, intelligent conversation, always left pleasant impressions. 
               "It is such a pity," said Lady Lyons," that Miss Ethel should seclude herself so much from the gay world, she would be such an ornament." 
               "That is my opinion too," replied her aunt, "but it is in vain to try to shake her resolution; in small matters she is gentle and yielding, but in her views of duty unbending." 
                
               "Very strange in one so young," replied the lady; "every one that has seen her thinks that she is the loveliest girl that has been among us this season." 
               Matilda has been much impressed by Ethel's consistency, and often talks alone with her cousin on these matters. 
               "I wish that you knew Lady Mary Campbell," said the young girl, u she is just one of your kind, Ethel, her father is an earl, and lives on a fine estate out of London, but she has renounced the gay world and leads a life devoted to good works; they have abundant wealth, and the whole neighborhood is benefited by her residence at Edgehill; she will be in London soon, and you will become acquainted." 
               Ethel is often troubled, for there are more disturbing influences than one marring the harmony of her spiritual life. 
               She hears comparatively but seldom from Ernest, and then the letters are so full of brotherly advice and so little of the tenderness that used to mark his correspondence with Daisy. Then the worldliness of Harcourt House jars upon her spirit, and in spite of all her watchfulness there is a lack of spiritual enjoyment. 
               She is conscious of all this, and jagged threads and thrums are appearing in her loom of life. It is therefore a delightful change when Lady Mary comes with an invitation to Edgehill. 
               Ethel has now an opportunity of visiting one of the most highly cultivated of noblemen's seats in England. 
               The spacious park, the green velvet lawn, the sporting deer, the silver lake, on whose bosom floats the graceful swan, the grand old trees and the spacious mansion, with its turrets, its balconies and elegant architecture, all have charms for Ethel, for she has an eye for the beautiful everywhere. 
               Isabel has declined the invitation, for she cannot leave the gayeties of London. 
               This is truly a Christian family, and Ethel is happy again when, assembled in the library, the good earl leads the devotions of the household, and all join in the solemn worship, Lady Mary leading the music on a parlor organ. 
               Ethel soon found that those surrounded by all that wealth can give may be" in the world, but not of the world," living here on earth a life of simple faith and supreme devotion to the Son of God, finding their bliss in his service. 
               After breakfast, in her pony carriage, Lady Mary took her guest around among the spots of beauty so abundant in the neighborhood, and in the salutations that met them everywhere, Ethel saw that the family at Edgehill were regarded with feelings of affectionate reverence by all the poor around. 
               Each day brought some new revelations of works of benevolence, gentle deeds of charity and noble plans for the good of man. 
               The minister of the parish was one of like spirit with good Mr. Tremaine, and Ethel felt that this sweet home was indeed an earthly Paradise. 
               A second visit to the church revealed the fact that here too earthly sorrow had left its mark; for on a marble vault were inscribed the names of four lovely children, which, one by one, had been called away, taking the son and heir also, and leaving Lady Mary as the only child. 
               But it had been sanctified sorrow, for it had left behind celestial benedictions, breathing their holy benisons on all around. 
               A sweet friendship was here established between Ethel and Lady Mary, for she was one of the humblest of young disciples, and the two spent many holy hours together that would not soon be forgotten by either. It had been a season of spiritual refreshment to Ethel, and with very great reluctance, the two parted; but not without a promise from the earl that Lady Mary should visit the Park at no distant period. 
                
               Ethel is at Harcourt House again, and is glad to find that the visit is drawing to a close, but her holy ministry will be missed by Susan Joyce, who is rapidly hastening to the grave. 
               Daily had Ethel paid her visit to the invalid, who had learned to watch for the sweet lace and tender words of the young Christian. 
               "I shall miss you, my dear young lady," said the sick girl, "for somehow your visits do me more good than even Mr. Carroll's. I suppose it's because I am a little timid with a minister." 
               "We shall meet again, Susan, in a better world," was the reply; "keep close to the dear Saviour; he is a never failing friend." 
               "Yes, I know it, Miss Ethel, for there is a time coming when no other can help me." 
               "Shall I sing your favorite, Susan?" 
               "Yes, do, ma'am, for I shall never hear you again." 
               In sweet, low notes Ethel sang: 
                      
                        "Jesus, Saviour of my soul, 
                        Let me to thy bosom fly, 
                        While the waves of trouble roll, 
                        While the tempest still is high!" 
                     
                  
                
               "Now, good-bye, Susan, I am going in the morning. God bless and keep you." 
               The sick girl kissed the extended hand, while silent tears dropped upon it. 
                
               The web of Susan Joyce's life was nearly completed. Who can say how many of the silver threads had been woven by Ethel's hand? 
               She has walked humbly and faithfully in her aunt's household; it may be that she has woven more of the holy tissue there than appears to mortal vision. 
               At all events, she has won the respect of all. 
               The current of her life has been much disturbed in the metropolis, and Ethel feels when she is back again in her own quiet home that she has many broken threads and thrums to take up ere the weaving goes on smoothly again. 
               She is warmly welcomed by all at home, especially by Aunt Sophia; but Ethel sees a great change, and when alone with the invalid, she hopes that the voices from another world are finding an answer in the heart of the sufferer. 
               "Don't go away again, Daisy," said the old couple; "we can't do without you," for at the lodge she is seated between the two, with a hand of each in her little palms, saying, with one of her heart-beams shining in her soft eyes, 
               "I hope that I shall not very soon, grandma; the old Park is the place for me." 
               "London has not spoiled you, Daisy." 
               "You would not think so, grandma, if it had, would you?" replied the young girl, with an arch smile lingering about her sweet mouth. 
               "I suppose not; but we are a foolish old pair, I reckon." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               FOUND AT LAST. 
               "SO happy, mamma!" said Ethel, as seated in her mother's room she is enjoying one of the tte--ttes as in former times. Little Edward is hanging round his sister, toying with her hand and telling all the news of his miniature world: 
               "I have four rabbits now, sister; one named Puss, another Bess, one Mike, and another Flirt; and Aaron has nursed a lamb, the prettiest little thing that ever you saw, and papa has bought me a Canada pony; we call him Major; won't I have fine times when I am old enough to ride him? but I will have to wait a year; that seems a long time, sister." 
               "You are rich indeed, Edward; I hope that you try to be an obedient, good boy to such a kind father." 
               "I am not; always, sister; sometimes I want to have my own way, and then I must be punished." 
               "I am sorry for that, Edward; but what do you say to a short lesson every day, my little brother?" 
               "I should like it very much, for I have so many pretty books, and can't read one." 
                
               "Just a half hour to begin with, Edward." 
               The bargain was sealed with a kiss, and off scampered the merry boy to play with his pets. 
               Seated once more in Skipton church, Ethel felt the sweetness of being at home. 
               It was all so solemn, so simple, the services so heavenward; the sermon instructive and elevating. 
               No gaudy pomp was there; no showy dresses, no muttered prayers; and seated in the pew with papa, mamma and Isabel, Ethel's pious heart went up in prayer to heaven for all these dear ones. Then the dear pastor's face and the warm clasp of his hand after service were full of welcome. 
               "We are glad to have you with us again, my child," said the good man; "I heard of you when you were away, and found that you were in good hands." 
               "How, Mr. Tremaine?" 
               "The Rev. Mr. Carroll is a friend of mine, and he wrote to me about the young lady that he found so often by the sick bed of Susan Joyce." 
               "He is a good man, Mr. Tremaine, and I was so glad to find one like him, for I could not go to St. Michael's with my aunt's family." 
               "Your aunt Sophia seems very feeble, Ethel, but I see her often now, and her state of mind is encouraging." 
                
               "Yes, Mr. Tremaine, she is seeking for the truth, I am sure, and I think that she has touched the hem of our Saviour's garment." 
               "Do not leave her alone, Ethel; her condition is very critical." 
               "We take care of that, for Jane always sleeps in the same room." 
               Every evening we find Ethel's last duty is to pay a visit to Aunt Sophia. 
               "Come, sit close by me, Ethel," said the lady; "I have something to say to you, for I feel new symptoms to-night; my disease is very uncertain. I always feel, when I close my eyes in sleep, that I may never awake again in this world." 
               "You have hopes for the next, dear aunt." 
               "Yes, Ethel; my confidence is all in the Lord Jesus, and what he has done, not only for the world of sinners, but for me; T suppose you know that I have partaken of the communion, Ethel." 
               "Yes, aunt, and, it makes me very happy to see you so changed." 
               "I scarcely know myself, now; I was so worldly, so envious of you, Ethel, when you first came home, for my heart Vas bound up in Isabel, but she has no liking for a sick room; and if it were not for you, my dear, I should spend many a lonely hour." 
               "It gives me pleasure, aunt, to visit you. I was afraid once that I should never find my way to your heart." 
               "You have found it at last, Ethel, for it would be impossible to resist all your gentle, patient love." 
               "You are tired, aunt; shall I give you your drops before I go?" 
               "Yes, dear, I feel like sleep now." 
               After administering the draught, she stooped down, to kiss the invalid. 
               "Good-night, my love; God bless you, Ethel." 
               "Good-night, dear aunt, pleasant slumbers." 
               Very early in the morning, a hasty knock came to Ethel's door. 
               "Come, quick, Miss Ethel," said Jane, who stood with a blanched face at the door; "something is the matter with my mistress." 
               Thus summoned, throwing on her wrapper, she hurried to the sick room, and there, with folded hands and face calm and peaceful, lay Aunt Sophia. 
               Ethel touched the face, it was cold as marble; she placed her hand upon the heart, but its beatings were stilled for ever. 
               She stood in solemn silence, for she had never been in the presence of death since she had looked for the last time upon her mother's face. 
               But then she was so young that the memories had passed away; and now too she knew more of the future world, and that made the spectacle so impressive. 
               "Go for papa," whispered the young lady to Jane. 
               The family were soon gathered in the room, and there was no longer any doubt that Aunt Sophia had passed away from earth. 
               Isabel looked on with dread, for no sweet Christian hope cheered the thoughts of the dark valley to her worldly spirit. 
               After the remains were committed to the family vault, the will was read, when it was found that her property, her wardrobe and jewelry were left equally between her nieces, and most affectionate mention made of Ethel. 
               After a long period of coldness and estrangement the young Christian had found her aunt, and had the blessed consciousness of knowing that the once proud and worldly lady had departed this life in the hope of a joyful resurrection. 
               The season of mourning was well adapted to Ethel's desire for retirement, and in these quiet hours we find her laying down her plans of usefulness. 
               The legacy which she had received was only about two hundred and fifty pounds, and it was her desire to devote it all to some useful object. 
               "Suppose I purchase some scholarships in the orphan school at Laneton," said Ethel to her pastor. 
                
               "That is an excellent thought; it would purchase ten, Ethel, and it will be very easy to find that number of orphan girls." 
               "Will you help me, Mr. Tremaine? I think I know of three here already; then there is the niece of our old curate; it would be so pleasant to give a useful education to such; that they may be able hereafter to support themselves." 
               Isabel was surprised at the disposal of her sister's legacy, for she had too many personal wants to be able to spare so much. 
               She was therefore quite at a loss to understand Ethel's pleasure when riding over to Laneton with Mr. Tremaine to take the three orphan girls to the asylum. 
               "I wish that you could have seen the children, sister," said the young lady on her return; "they were so happy in their new home, and examined their nice little beds with so much pleasure, for they have had nothing half so comfortable ever since they lost their mother." 
               Ernest is at home, for his studies are completed, and lie is preparing for a theological course. 
               There is still a shadow between him and Ethel; none of that confidential intercourse which was once so sweet to each, but which has been so long disturbed by an envious spirit. 
                
               The young girl is often depressed; even the lovely things around her fail to awaken former pleasure. 
               It is one of the most charming of spring days; Ethel wonders what ails her for she is not in harmony with the scene. 
               It is a glorious morning-a bright, beautiful sky, happy singing birds, blooming flowers, a soft, gentle breeze. 
               Once she enjoyed them all; she communes with her own heart, but no satisfactory response is there. 
               On the way to the lodge, Ethel meets Ernest on the avenue; they exchange a few words, and then separate. 
               Grandmother asks what ails her Daisy. 
               "I can't tell, grandma, but I am sad and lonely; but never mind me; I came to ask about your caps; it seems as if they were beginning to wear out." 
               "They are not very good, Daisy, and my old eyes can't do much fine work now. What should I do without you, Daisy?" 
               "We shall not always be together, grandma. I was thinking of that as I walked to the lodge to-day, but then there is a better land, where we shall never be separated again, and where there will be no coldness, no parted friends." 
               "That is a sweet hope, Daisy; when we reach the home which our dear Lord is preparing, it will be to go out no more for ever." 
               "We ought to love that dear Lord, grandma, for having done so much for us; I often think what a blessed place heaven must be, where we shall be with him always." 
               And so a happy hour passed away; then Ethel bade farewell and retraced her steps homeward. 
               She has woven some bright silver threads at the lodge, but there are many jagged ends in her own spiritual loom. 
               "What is the matter with Daisy?" said Margaret to Aaron; "she does not seem at all like herself lately." 
               "Kathleen says that some one has been sowing discord between her and Ernest," was the reply. 
               "I don't see how that can be, for there is no one at the Park that could do that." 
               "I am not so sure; Kathleen says that Isabel thinks a heap of the young man." 
               "He couldn't be such a fool as to turn against our Daisy." 
               "He hasn't turned against her, Margaret; but Isabel may have put some notions in his head, for she is often out with him now." 
               "There! they are coming now," said Margaret, as they drove down to the gate and out on the road to to the parish school, for it is Isabel's day to go there. 
               She gives a long account of her labors, but not one word of Ethel's. 
               Bessie Ray is the first to accost our young lady. 
               "Where is Miss Ethel?" said the child; "I did hope that she would come this afternoon; you don't know how good she is, for when mother was so ill, and there was no one to take care of her, Miss Ethel used to come and sit up all night with her, and give her medicines." 
               Isabel hurried away, but Ernest remained to talk to the little girl, and on leaving her, slipped a half crown into her hand. 
               Ethel was pained at being left behind, for it had been her desire to go; but not a word was breathed upon the subject, and shut up in her own heart, the uncomfortable emotions sorely troubled the young girl. 
               The next day, Helen and Anna Ross came over with an invitation to Ethel to pay them a long visit; so, taking a change of clothing, she gladly left the Park for a few days. 
               This increased the estrangement between the two, and Isabel was highly pleased, for now she could engross all of Ernest's leisure time. 
               Ethel has been absent but a, few days when a summons mons is brought by Ernest to call her home, for Isabel is taken suddenly ill. 
               "Is my sister considered dangerous?" asked the agitated girl. 
               "She is very sick, Ethel, but we do not know what the disease is, only that it is attended by a high fever." 
               She loses no time to seek Isabel now; and in a day or two, it is ascertained that she is in a critical condition. 
               Ethel does not leave the room day nor night. 
               Dr. Winston pronounces it contagious, but it is too late now, and she is the devoted, faithful nurse. 
               Kathleen waits upon her at the door, but is hot allowed to enter for fear of spreading contagion. 
               Ernest frequently knocks at the door, and Ethel's sad, pale face distresses him as he inquires for Isabel, when Ethel mutters mysterious words. 
               For nine days the fever continued its ravages. Kathleen will be denied no longer. 
               "Miss Ethel will kill herself," said the faithful girl; "just let me go, Mrs. Ashton; I will not come out of the room, and Betsy can wait upon us; but I must help her." 
               It was a relief to Ethel in her loneliness to have the comfort of Kathleen's presence. 
               "Now, my dear Miss Ethel, just lie down and take some rest; I promise that I will call you if you are needed." 
               Arranging the pillows on the lounge, and drawing up an afghan over the wearied watcher, she took her seat by the sick bed. 
               Kathleen listened to the incoherent mutterings of the sick girl, and now and then distinguished words which revealed much "of the workings of Isabel's mind. 
               Frequently during, Ethel's long slumber a knock is heard at the chamber door, and Ernest is making anxious inquiries, not for Isabel, but for Ethel. 
               "Is she sleeping still? how long has she slept so heavily, Kathleen?" 
               "About two hours, Mr. Rutgers; but I really believe that it is doing her good." 
               "Give her this when she awakes," said the anxious inquirer, handing her a glass of wine; "she must be completely exhausted, for she has been a lonely, weary watcher." 
               Isabel had been comparatively quiet, and when Ethel at last awoke, she could scarcely believe that she had been asleep so long. 
               There are anxious days yet for Ethel, for Isabel's delirium continues at intervals yet. 
               The dreariness of the sick chamber is greatly increased by appearances of an approaching storm. 
                
               "Look out, Kathleen," said the young lady; "are we going to have a gust?" 
               "Yes, ma'am, it is coming very fast." 
               Dark, heavy clouds came rolling over the Park, and distant mutterings of thunder continued until evening fairly closed around them. 
               Then the storm set in with all its violence; lightning flashed and thunder rattled over the house as though the artillery of the heavens were all in action. 
               Isabel was greatly disturbed, for the lightning flashed through the room, illuminating every corner. 
               Frequently she started up in bed, her dark eyes glaring wildly at Ethel. 
               "Who are you? have you come to torment me?" 
               "I am Ethel, your sister; don't you know me, Isabel?" 
               "Ethel is dead; come here;" and drawing her sister down, she whispered in husky tones, "I killed her; don't tell anybody; oh! don't, don't!" 
               Ethel drew the burning head down to her bosom, and shielding her eyes from the scorching flashes, she tries to soothe and comfort her. 
               "There! there!" shuddered the sufferer, as another clap, more heavy than the rest, broke over them; "it will kill me: it is sent for that." 
               And so the raving continued until the storm subsided sided; but next day the symptoms were all worse, and the poor girl raved incessantly. 
               The doctor was now seriously alarmed, and for days life hung upon a very slender thread. 
               But a good constitution, tender, watchful care, and above all, the goodness of a kind Providence, spared the young life, and after a slumber almost like death, she awoke to consciousness. 
               The anxious sister was seated by the side of the bed, watching the sleeper, several times almost certain that Isabel breathed no more. 
               But now she saw a slight motion, the hand slowly moving, and a faint voice murmured: 
               "Is that you, Ethel?" 
               "Don't talk too much, sister," said the watcher. "I am near you all the time." 
               "Kiss me, Ethel." 
               The trembling girl could scarcely restrain an outburst of joyful sobs; but she knew how dangerous any excitement would be, and quietly she pressed the first kiss that had ever received a response from her sister Isabel. 
               In another minute, she was sound asleep again, and Ethel bent the knee in joyful gratitude to the Father who had spared her life. 
               The work of recovery went slowly on, and as soon as it was safe, Isabel was removed to a larger and brighter room, that looked out upon the most cheering vistas of the Park. 
               She seemed never tired of watching Ethel's movements, always with a wistful, tender look now. 
               One morning, the sister had just completed the dressing of the invalid, for she was able now to sit up a short time every day. 
               Seated in her easy-chair, with her little table of books and flowers near her, she looked really comfortable, and motioned to Ethel to take a seat by her side: 
               "How long have I been sick, Ethel?" 
               "About six weeks, sister." 
               "Have you nursed me all that time?" 
               "Kathleen has helped me some, Isabel." 
               "Why didn't mamma take turns sometimes?" 
               "The fever was contagious, and we were afraid for Edward." 
               "And you have risked your life for me?" was answered slowly. 
               "What else could have been done, Isabel?" 
               With head bowed down upon her hands, she sat in silence for some minutes, large tears stealing between the pale, thin fingers. 
               "Come nearer, Ethel; let me lay my head upon your bosom, for I have much to say, and cannot look upon your face." 
                
               "I am afraid that you are fatiguing yourself too much, Isabel." 
               "I must tell all, Ethel; don't hinder me; I have had solemn hours of self-communion in this sick room; and dark revelations have been made of my former feelings toward my sister. Aunt Sophia made a great pet of me, and my whole education under her was of the most worldly character. She used to talk to me about being the heiress of Ashton Park, and of all the attentions that I should receive when brought out as a young lady. When you came so unexpectedly, all was changed, and we were both filled with anger at the thought of a rival; then, Ethel, we saw how lovely you were, and how soon I should be eclipsed in the world to which I had looked forward." 
               "Don't tell me any more, Isabel; it is all changed now," said the listener; "it is painful to both of us." 
               "I must, Ethel, it will remove a load from my spirit, and make me happier; that was the secret of my dislike-miserable, hateful jealousy; but I wonder now how I could so long resist your sweet Christian patience and untiring love." 
               "I am repaid, dear Isabel." 
               "I must go on, Ethel. When the new mother came, my wicked passions were still more aroused, and lovely as she is, I hated her; but when the baby came, the sight of the young heir was wormwood and gall to my envious spirit; the only welcome stranger from America was Ernest Rutgers; he was handsome and gifted. I saw that he loved you dearly, as a little sister; but when we grew older, I discovered that his affection was of a different character. I never loved him, Ethel, but I determined to wean him from you, if I could. I admired him and coveted his attentions, but he was not of the order to satisfy my ambitious views. I made him believe that Howard Ross was a favored suitor, Ethel, and thus I produced coolness between you and Ernest; that was all that I wanted. Now, Ethel, you must hate such a character as I have revealed." 
               "Hate my sister, Isabel, when I have just found the object of my long and weary search! such a thing can never be. I have been trying so long to overcome evil with good; it is accomplished now, and: I am happy; but so sorry for the pain that you must have endured in these disclosures." 
               "I have been within the shadows of the dark valley, Ethel, and trust that the lessons of those solemn hours will remain with me for life; do you freely forgive me, my sister Ethel?" 
               "Entirely, Isabel; all I care for is my sister's love, and I have found that at last." 
               During all this trying interview, Isabel's head had reposed upon her sister's bosom, and the words had been uttered slowly, in weak, faltering tones, sometimes with quick, low sobs. 
               At the close, Ethel bent down and pressed one long, lingering kiss of perfect love and reconciliation upon the pale cheek; and then Isabel raised her head, and fixing her dark eyes full upon Ethel's face, in the one long, loving gaze exchanged between the two all the coldness passed away for ever, and the bond of sisterhood was sealed from that happy hour. 
               "Now, Isabel, you are tired, I know; let me help you to bed, for you need repose. I will draw the shades down and leave you alone for a while." 
               Giving the strengthening draught ordered by the doctor, Ethel kissed her sister once more, directing Kathleen to be within hearing. 
               "I have good news, mamma," said the young girl, as with beaming face she entered the room; "I have found my sister at last. Isabel has made a full confession of all her evil feelings toward me, and we are really sisters now." 
               "I told you so, Ethel; I could not think that all your love would be thrown away." 
               In a few weeks Isabel was able to come down stairs, and on first meeting Ernest, it was soon apparent that the former character of the proud girl was rapidly disappearing, for the silver threads of faith, and hope, and love were beginning to shine in the tissues of Isabel's life. 
               It did not trouble her now to see Ernest and her sister under the laurustinus with the affectionate confidence of former days, and many a time did she stand at the window, waving a kiss to the two in those pleasant interviews. 
               As soon as Isabel was able, in company with Ethel she visited Skipton church; it was with new and holy feelings of true repentance that she joined in the confession now, for the solemn words had a deep meaning as she uttered them to her Father in heaven. 
               But there were symptoms about Ethel that troubled those who loved her; each day she appeared more and more dropping, her cheek pale, her step languid, her spirits fluctuating; the protracted anxiety and fatigue had been too much, and a low, nervous fever was the consequence. 
               Ashton Park was full of anxious hearts, for there was not one in all that household that did not love the sweet girl. 
               The mother is devoted, Isabel as faithful as her strength would allow, and Kathleen never leaving her night nor day, only to take some refreshment. 
               She is sick for a long while; Dr. Winston thinks that the body will rally-his fears are for the mind. 
               After weary weeks of deep prostration, there are signs of slow recovery, talking at first like an infant, entirely unable to walk, having to be led again as in the first tottering steps. She is like a child for several months, cries for the smallest trifles, and exhibits affecting marks of imbecility. 
               "Perhaps music will reunite the broken links of memory," said the father, and the parlor organ was taken into her room. 
               She is lying in her weakness upon the lounge, gazing around in a childish, vacant manner. 
               Papa is seated at the organ, and commences Gottschalk's sweet cradle song. 
               Ethel lies with closed eyes, listening to the melody. 
               "Sweet! sweet! papa, play more." 
               For an hour he played tender, plaintive hymns, and Ethel seemed greatly pleased and comforted. 
               The cradle song was one of her own pieces, but she had forgotten its name. 
               "I have heard that before, papa; I wish that I could tell where." 
               "It is the cradle song, Ethel." 
               "Oh yes, now I want you to promise to rock me to sleep with that to-night." 
               After papa had departed, she took her seat at the organ, but was too weak to play yet. 
               "Wouldn't you like to see Aaron and Margaret, Ethel?" 
                
               "Who are they, mamma?" 
               "Your dear old friends that live at the lodge." 
               They had been every day up to see Ethel, but their old hearts were full of sorrow at the shadowy veil that rested yet upon the walls of memory. 
               Ernest too was grieved at the condition, of the sweet girl, for she seemed to have no remembrance of his name. 
               One morning he had brought his usual gift of flowers, and was seated by her couch in sad watchfulness. 
               "How pretty!" said the young girl, as she pressed the sweet flowers to her lips; "you are a kind gentleman to bring them to me, for I can't go out yet." 
               "Don't you know me, Ethel?" 
               She raised her soft hazel eyes to his face, fixed one long, earnest gaze, but Ernest saw that it was a dreamy, not an intelligent look. 
               "You are very handsome, but I don't know you," said Ethel, as she took his hand between her own; "your hair is very glossy; let me touch it." 
               Ernest bent down his head, and she passed her little fingers gently through the brown curls. 
               "Will this last long, Dr. Winston?" inquired Ernest, as he followed him out to the piazza. 
               "I do not know; in such cases the awakening is sometimes sudden, but most generally gradual; it would be well to take her out to ride; she could exercise in the pony carriage around the park." 
               Carried down in Ernest's arms, she is seated in the little carriage, and seems pleased with the amusement. 
               "We will stop at the lodge, Ethel," said her companion. She made no remark, but as soon as they had entered the house, with a burst of joy, she called out, 
               "Come here, old Lion." 
               It was the first mark of the recognition of old friends. The dog fondled upon the young girl, much to the delight of the old people. 
               She was able to walk alone a little now, and tottering around the room, she laid her hand upon every object, standing at last before her own picture. 
               "That is Ethel, and you are Aaron;" and turning round to the delighted old man, she took his hand and pressed a kiss upon its rough surface. 
               "Where is Margaret, dear old grandma?" 
               Taking the dear girl in her arms, Margaret sat down upon the settee with Ethel on her lap. 
               She pressed her hands gently on each cheek, as she kissed the dear old lips, and said slowly, 
               "How long you have been away! I am so glad that you have come back again." 
               "Who is the kind gentleman that brought you hereto-day, Ethel?" 
                
               "That is Ernest; I used to know him a long while ago, but he has been away, too; and now you are all coming back again, and we shall be so happy." 
               The ride home was a pleasant one, for several remarks made by Ethel led him to hope that there was light dawning in the long darkened mind. 
               Gifts of flowers come daily from the old people at the lodge, from the Rosses and Ernest. Isabel is a most faithful, gentle nurse, and Ethel seems to have forgotten that she had ever been anything else. 
               Little Edward is the most welcome of all visitors, for Ethel was as fond of playing with the toys as Edward himself. 
               It is quite painful to her friends to see how much the characters appear to harmonize, but from this child they hope the most, for with him she is most animated. 
               She even reads imperfectly, and Isabel performs that office daily for her sister. 
               Gradually her strength returns, and with it her memory. 
               She is now able to be taken down daily to the library, where she sees her friends. 
               Frail as a broken lily, Ethel's beauty is still more spiritual; she has lost her fine hair, and wears a simple lace cap, which gives her a still more childish appearance. 
                
               Clad in a white wrapper, she is lying upon the lounge; the windows of the library opened upon the garden, filling the room with the perfume of sweet flowers. 
               She is rapidly joining the links of memory now, but is still weak and nervous, and needs the most tender care. 
               Ernest is seated by her side, reading to her suitable selections from the Bible. 
               "Read the ninety-first. Psalm, Ernest," said the listener; "it is so comforting." 
               The clear, deep voice read: 
               "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty." 
               "It is there, Ernest, that I like to hide myself, I feel so safe." 
               "What a long period of weariness you have had, Daisy!" 
               "Yes, Ernest, but God has been my refuge and" strength; a very present help in time of trouble.'" 
               "You are fast recovering now, Daisy, and we can take our rambles again as we used to." 
               "That will be very sweet, Ernest-as we used to do; it seems very long since those happy days." 
               "They never would have been broken, Daisy, had I not supposed that you preferred the society of Howard Boss to mine, and I did not wish to interfere with your happiness." 
               "It was a great mistake, Ernest; I suppose that Isabel has told you all about it." 
               "Yes, Daisy; it was a painful task, but she performed it heartily and truly, and I was glad when it was over." 
               "And now we are all one again; Isabel is so changed-a dear, loving sister now." 
               "I always said so, Daisy; real Christian character must make its impression at last upon the hardest nature; but hers is not that; it is a noble heart misguided." 
               Recovery goes on slowly; Ernest is the devoted, faithful attendant, and Isabel interferes no more. 
               The union of the sisters is perfect; together they attend the house of God, their pleasures are the same, and it is a happy family at Ashton Park. 
               Ethel is able to resume her practice on the organ, and many a sweet hour does she spend at the instrument, recovering her former knowledge of old pieces. 
               It had much to do with her recovery, for at all times it had the power to calm her nerves in the most trying times of her convalescence. 
               "It is a lovely day, Daisy," said her friend; "shall we ride to the cliff?" 
                
               "Nothing would give me more pleasure. I will soon be ready." 
               And along the pleasant road the pony carriage pursued its way, Isabel watching with a smiling face as long as she could see them. 
               "How clear and calm the sea looks to-day!" said Ethel, as, seated on her favorite spot, she looked out upon the lovely scene; "it seems like years since we were here last, Ernest." 
               "It has been many months, for Isabel's sickness and yours have filled up most? of a year." 
               "Such changes since then, Ernest! The calm, quiet sky, the smooth, bright water and the balmy air, all seem like the tone of my spirit now; there was a time when these beautiful objects of nature all jarred upon my feelings." 
               "When was that, Daisy?" 
               "When you were so cold and distant, Ernest." 
               "I could not help it, Daisy, for I was beginning to despise Howard Ross, when I thought that he had come between us; but all that is over now, and nothing can ever part us again." 
               "Nothing, Ernest; I don't see how you could ever have dreamed of such a thing." 
               "We are generally very much afraid of losing what we value most." 
               "We are a happy family now; Isabel is so changed; it seems to me as if we shall all be found on our way to heaven at last." 
               "What do you think of my visiting America, Daisy? I have business there that must be attended to, and I think it best to go myself. I want to dispose of Oakdale, for I am a citizen of Great Britain now. 
               "Would you go and leave me, Ernest? I should just get sick again, I am sure." 
               The young man smiled as he replied: 
               "It is for you to say, Ethel, whether you accompany me or not. Dr. Winston thinks that a sea-voyage would restore you entirely, and I have serious thoughts of taking you with me, that is, if papa consents." 
               Ethel blushed as she replied, 
               "That would be delightful indeed." 
               And thus the broken links were joined again, and the silver threads of Ethel's life were running smoothly once more. 
               But just as perfectly was the heavenly web woven, when threads and thrums appeared in its tissue, as when smooth and shining filaments followed the shuttles; for God and angels were directing the mysterious loom. 
               A weary watcher had Ethel been, but she has found her sister's love at last. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE SHUTTLES FLY SWIFTLY. 
               IT is communion-day again, and Richard Ashton is unusually troubled when he sees his wife and daughter bowed at the table of the Lord, and he still a stranger to their blessed hopes. Thoughts of another separation cast their dark shadows over his spirit, as he listened to the solemn words of the good pastor, and he could but ask the question, "What if it should be eternal?" 
               He has often felt condemned on other days of separation, for he is aware that the lovely example of wife and daughter surrounds him with heavy responsibilities. 
               There is another deeply solemnized spirit among the spectators, and that is Isabel Ashton. She feels that she ought to be there, and by God's help it is her most earnest desire to be a worthy recipient of that blessed sacrament. 
               The father wonders how he could have lived fifty years dead to the claims of the Redeemer, with two such life companions as he has had. 
                
               It is no transient impression now that seals his lips as he walks home with his wife. 
               "Aren't you well, Richard?" asked the lady. 
               "Well in body, wife, but not in spirit. I have long felt that I ought to be a Christian, but to-day the call was urgent; when I looked at you and Ethel bowed at the table of the Lord, I could not but think of the eternal separation that might take place in the world to come." 
               "I have often thought of it, husband, and it has filled me sometimes with anguish, but I have never ceased to pray for you, and I believe that God will hear my prayers and bring you to himself." 
               "I have led a very careless life, Emily, of later years; after I lost my first wife, I forsook the house of God entirely, and until Ethel and you came, I continued careless and worldly; but there are three epistles in my house that compel me to think about eternity." 
               "You allude to Ernest and Ethel, husband; I will own that piety is very attractive in those two young persons." 
               "Nothing is so powerful as the eloquence of a holy life, and yours is always preaching to me." 
               "You make me very happy, husband. If I could only see all the family at the Park treading in the narrow way, I should have nothing more to ask for." 
                
               "These impressions are not transient Emily; they have been growing and deepening for many months; but I have such a dread of being an inconsistent Christian that it makes me very cautious how I proceed." 
               "'My grace is sufficient for thee; that is the promise, husband." 
               A new tie seemed to bind the two from that hour, for it was a real change that was passing upon the soul of Richard Ashton. 
               During the succeeding week, Isabel is found at the rectory to seek guidance at the hands of the good pastor. 
               "I have come with a heart bowed down with sorrow for sin, Mr. Tremaine, to ask for counsel and encouragement." 
               "You are welcome, my child, especially in such a state of mind, for 'God will not break the bruised reed, nor quench the smoking flax;' you are just the one that Jesus welcomes; 'not the righteous, sinners Jesus came to call.' What has led to your present state of mind, Isabel?" 
               "First, the example of my saintly sister; then the sickness which brought me in sight of the dark valley." 
               "God has been very good to you, Isabel, in sparing such a life as Ethel's." 
                
               "Yes, I know it, Mr. Tremaine, and I want to tell you the whole story of my sinfulness." 
               Then, in simple, truthful language, she told the history of her heart sins. 
               "I know it all, Isabel, for it was easy to see the workings of the passions that you describe." 
               "Do you think that I am a sincere penitent, Mr. Tremaine? I would not be deceived in such a case as this." 
               "I have no doubt of your sincerity, for why should you reveal such a state of feeling to me if you are not." 
               "May I approach the table of the Lord at the next communion?" 
               "If you have simple, undoubting faith in the precious Saviour, come and welcome, Isabel; he will receive you, for is not the promise, 'Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest?'" 
               "Your words are like a sweet cordial, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "What would you say, Isabel, if I should tell you that I have had just such a visit from your father?" 
               "I should not be surprised, for I have observed a great difference in papa for some time. It is-very strange, Mr. Tremaine, when we look back upon the time since Ethel first came; it seems as if she were just saved from that dreadful wreck to lead us all to heaven; and there is not the least noise about her religion; it is just like a quiet, gentle stream flowing onward through fields and valleys, watering and refreshing everything in its course; it is all so natural in her, for 'out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.'" 
               It is indeed a holy union that binds the sisters now-one in heart, in aim, in hope; it is one that will be made perfect in heaven. 
               The next communion-day was a very solemn one at Skipton church; papa, mamma, Isabel by the side of Ethel, Ernest, Kathleen, and the old people, all there-one unbroken circle of Christian unity, to be joined again as a family above. 
               Thus the silver threads are seen among the broken, jagged shreds of human life, reminding us of what is weaving for us in the world of spirits. 
               Isabel is anxious now to be doing some good in the world, and we find her questioning Ethel about her orphans. 
               "I have enough left to endow two scholarships, Ethel; can you find me two orphans?" 
               "Mary Tremaine was telling me only last week about such a sad case, where two girls were suddenly deprived of their father by the falling in of a coalmine mine; they have no friends, and are unable to take care of themselves." 
               "Let us go for them at once," said Isabel." 
               Under the care of a very poor woman, who had given them shelter, the young people found the children. 
               "God has sent you, dear ladies, I am sure," said the woman, "for these poor lambs must have been sent to the poor-house. I have hardly bread to eat, and could not keep them." 
               They were pleasant-looking children-one named Rachel, and the other Jennie Hartwell. 
               Isabel had a long talk with the desolate orphans, and when told that there was a comfortable home ready for them where they would be educated, they could not express their joy. 
               "Get your clothes ready, children," said Isabel; "we will come over in the morning to take you to the asylum." 
               The little girls were delighted with their pleasant prospects, for the thought of the poor-house had filled their hearts with dread. 
               They were ready long before the carriage came, and driving first to a book-store, Isabel furnished each with a Bible and hymn-book; then, placing them under the care of the matron, promised to send their clothing in the following week. 
                
               Ethel's protgs were always glad to see her, for they looked upon their young lady as something more than of the common order. 
               They generally had a pretty hymn or some passages of Scripture to recite to her, and were highly pleased when the matron could give a good account of them. 
               Mary Clare, the curate's niece, was a peculiarly promising child, and Ethel gave an especial charge that she should be educated for a teacher, for she was a girl of excellent abilities. 
               Ethel's health is still delicate, and Dr. Winston proposes a sea-voyage. 
               It has long been evident that the young people are tenderly attached to each other, and Mr. Ashton does not altogether discourage the idea of Ethel's accompanying Ernest in his voyage across the ocean. 
               "I did not expect to give her away quite so soon," said the tender father; "it really seems as if I will have to consent; but Isabel must go too, for I should not like my darling child to cross the ocean without a female companion." 
               "It would add much to our happiness to have her with us, for she has never seen any country but her own; we shall probably only stay about three months, and I am certain that it will restore Ethel entirely." 
                
               The hurry of preparation is commenced at once, for it was desirable that they should regulate their time so as to return in the early autumn. 
               Ethel is the first to communicate the intelligence to the old people. 
               "It is not news to us, dear," said Aaron, "for we always said that you were intended for each other; you couldn't have a finer husband than Mr. Ernest if you should search the world over." 
               "I should never think of your going with any comfort," said Margaret, "only that I believe it will bring back your rosy cheeks, Daisy." 
               The wedding-day has arrived; the Harcourts, the Rosses, Lady Mary Campbell and Mary Tremaine are invited guests. 
               Howard Ross begs to be excused, for he cannot look upon Ethel as belonging to another. 
               The morning is ushered in by the merry chiming of the bells of Skipton church. 
               The carriages are at the door, and nothing could be more lovely than the gentle bride in her dress of fine lace, with white flowers in her gossamer-webbed veil, a set of pearls being her only ornament. Papa and mamma rode with the young pair; the three bridesmaids, Isabel, Lady Mary Campbell and Mary Tremaine, attended by three of Ernest's friends, were in the following carriages; the old people, with Kathleen and Mrs. Bond, followed. The bells rang out a merry peal as the party reached the church door. 
               Ethel was pleased to see the twelve little orphans waiting in two lines at the door; she had sent each a gift of a new dress, hat and cape for the occasion, and the matron had arranged the rest. 
               Each with her basket of flowers strewed the path for the bridal party as they advanced to the chancel, then, following in the rear, separated on either side. 
               Those were solemn vows breathed there on that memorable day, and the good pastor said that never had a lovelier pair stood before that marriage altar. 
               One day was spent at the Park, when Ethel received her friends; on the next, the trio started for America. 
               "God bless and keep you, Daisy," sobbed Margaret; "give my love to the people who are left at the shore; but do take care of her, Mr. Ernest; you have a precious treasure in charge now." 
               "I know it, Margaret; but we are all in the keeping of the good Father; we can trust him." 
               "I am so afraid of the ocean, Mr. Ernest; there is always something of dread when I think of Daisy on the sea; I can't help these forebodings-may God preserve our darling." 
                
               "You will pray for us, grandma, won't you?" were Daisy's last words. 
               "Yes, dear, every morning and evening, and so will Mr. Tremaine; he will have prayers offered for you until your safe arrival, I am sure of that." 
               The farewells are all spoken, and the party are soon on board the vessel which is to carry them to America. 
               They had a short and pleasant passage across, for they had chosen a favorable season. 
               A few days in New York for Isabel's enjoyment, and then the party set out for Oakdale. 
               Ethel was a child when she left that pleasant home, which, to her inexperience then, seemed a large and elegant place, but since her residence in England familiarity with seats on so much larger scale than this appeared really insignificant. 
               "It is a pretty little place, Ernest, is it not?" said Ethel, as they came in sight of Oakdale. 
               He smiled as he replied: 
               "It used to look quite grand to little Daisy Gilbert when she lived at the lighthouse." 
               "Yes, that is true, but after Ashton Park, it does really look small." 
               They were drawing nearer now, and Ethel said, 
               "The flowers are sweet as ever, Ernest; I remember how I was delighted when mamma gave me the first flowers that I ever had to carry home in pots; I nursed them just as tenderly as if they had been human creatures, and I cried some very bitter tears when I had to leave them behind." 
               They had stopped at the gate, and were driving in around the path to the piazza. 
               Mrs. Crosby was out watching the travelers, for she was living at Oakdale now. 
               "You are welcome, Ernest, but whom have you here?" 
               "Daisy Gilbert once; Ethel Rutgers now." 
               The lady pressed a warm kiss upon the blushing cheek, and then turned to Isabel, to welcome the young stranger. 
               "The girls are in New York, but they will be at home to-morrow, and will be so glad and so surprised." 
               The warm glow had faded, and Ethel's cheek was pale now. 
               "Are you well, my dear?" inquired the lady. 
               "I have been sick, but I think that the voyage is doing me good; I am tired now." 
               "Shall I show you to your room, Ernest?" 
               "If you please, aunt." 
               Taking up the carpet-bag, they followed the lady to what used to be Aunt Emily's bedroom. 
               A good supper and a night's repose did wonders for the invalid, and Ethel seemed much improved, stronger, more lively, more like herself. 
               "Just let me peep into the study, aunt," said the young lady. 
               Much of the furniture remained; very old-fashioned it looked now. 
               She recognized a picture of game that had hung there when she was Miss Emily's pupil in this little room; but the smell of flowers that stole in from the running vines of the back arbor was more familiar still, for many a time had she plucked the sweet blossoms in those happy days to fill the vase that stood upon the desk. 
               Walking around the garden, she recognized many old acquaintances, or perhaps the descendants of some of her favorites, for Ethel sometimes forgot how many years had passed since she trod these garden-paths. Ethel's heart turns to the sea-shore, and in company with Ernest only, seeks the once familiar haunts; Isabel staying at home with Ellen and Sophy Crosby. 
               "There is the dear old lighthouse, Ernest; how like a friend it looks!" 
               "You will see an old acquaintance, Ethel, for John Slocum's family are yet in charge." 
               Drawing up to the door, Mrs. Slocum steps out to welcome the visitors. 
                
               A young and beautiful lady presents herself, but she is a stranger to Hannah Slocum. 
               "You don't know me, Hannah," said Ethel, smiling. 
               "No, ma'am, I do not." 
               "Don't you remember little Daisy Gilbert, that used to live at the lighthouse with Aaron and Margaret?" 
               A glow of delighted surprise passed over the woman's features as she answered, 
               "This cannot be little Daisy?" 
               "It is even so, and this is Mr. Ernest Rutgers, my husband." 
               "Well, sure! how strange things come around! I'm mighty glad to see you, ma'am, for none of us ever forgot Daisy Gilbert." 
               "Where is Patty? I suppose she is quite a young woman now; we had many pleasant days together when we were children." 
               "Patty is married, ma'am, and lives in town now; but we see her every Sunday, for she likes to worship here among her own people; but come in, ma'am; I had like to've forgot my manners, I was so taken aback." 
               The two stepped in, and, looking around, Ethel said, 
               "There is the old clock, Hannah!" 
                
               "Yes, we bought it from Aaron, when he went to England." 
               "Shall I step into the bedroom?" asked the lady. 
               "Yes, ma'am, and welcome." 
               "Is not that my little bedstead?" asked Ethel. 
               "Yes, the very one that you slept on when a little girl." 
               "And that's my little chair, too, that grandfather bought once when he went into town; it doesn't seem so very long ago, when I look at those things." 
               "'It's a good long time, ma'am, for you were a child then-now you are a married lady; you will see a heap o' changes as you walk around; the Murphy boys have gone to learn a trade. Neddy White has gone home to glory, Martha Quin is at home with her mother, and Rosy Gorman is in a consumption; she has had such a drunken father that her heart is broken at last." 
               "That is sad news, Hannah; but Rosy was a sweet little girl; I hope that she has grown up to be a good woman." 
               "You may say that, ma'am, for there's not a better soul on the shore than Rosy; she's never forgotten Daisy Gilbert, for the papers and the books that you sent have done a heap o' good." 
               "Can't you take a walk with us, Hannah? I want to go round the old place, and you can tell me about the changes." 
               "Just stop a minute, ma'am, till I take off my old duds; I'll soon be ready." 
               Highly delighted, Hannah walked by the side of the strangers, talking and chatting all the way. 
               About half a mile from the lighthouse, standing somewhat back, was a new feature in the landscape. 
               To Ethel's great surprise, there stood a neat, two-story building, evidently used for some public purpose. 
               "What is that, Hannah?" inquired the young lady. 
               "That is our church and school-house, ma'am." 
               "How came it there?" 
               "Why, you see, ma'am, you gave us a little start; our Patty wasn't contented with Just a little laming, and the other children wanted to read the pretty books that came from England; and the mothers began to think that the children should have a better bringing up than they have had; so after Miss Emily went away, I remembered Mr. Edmunds; and Mrs. Murphy and I walked in to town to talk to the good man; he seemed pleased with what we said, and promised to come to the shore once a month. We had no place but the lighthouse, and that soon got crowded; so he set to work; little by little he gathered the money, and after a few years, the school-house was built, and he sent us a young man who teaches our children through the week, and preaches to us on Sunday." 
               "That is good news, Hannah; can you fill that house on Sunday?" 
               "Not quite, ma'am; but the country-people come down here; we have a good minister, and it is pleasant, they say, to hear the music of the ocean on the holy day." 
               "There must be a great change here, Hannah." 
               "Yes, ma'am; the people are more tidy and industrious, the children are not seen now racing round, ragged and dirty, on Sabbath days; they are learning to read and write, and, above all, to love and fear God. We often talk about it, ma'am, and look back to the little girl cast among us in the storm as the one who planted the first seed." 
               "Let God be praised, Hannah; he not only directs all the good in this world, but he also chooses the means; babes and sucklings are strong in his Almighty hand." 
               Pleasant were the greetings that met Ethel everywhere as she recognized old acquaintances, and received the grateful thanks of the people for her continued remembrance. 
               Ethel could scarcely believe that it was real when on the following Sunday she found herself seated with Ernest in the pleasant school-house on the shore. 
               There were comfortable benches, some cushioned by families occupying them for the summer; for in later years, quite a number had built cottages in the neighborhood for the benefit of the sea-bathing; there was a neat desk, too, covered with half-worn velvet, bought by some of the citizens from a city church; a respectable choir, where Ethel found Patty Slocum, the Murphys and Martha Quin-Ellen Crosby presiding at the melodeon as leader. 
               The sweet Sabbath hymn, with its solemn music, fell upon Ethel's spirit with a soul-subduing power; and as the soft summer breeze stole in through the open windows, mingling with the melody of the ocean, it seemed to the worshiper, as though she had never adored the great Creator with deeper reverence than in this humble seashore church. 
               And then the impressive, Christ-like sermon from the young minister filled her pious heart with deep, tearful gratitude, as she recalled the days of spiritual dearth, when no thought of God and eternity seemed ever to disturb the slumbers of the dwellers on the shore-how different now! for there were pilgrims among them now. 
               Mr. Fletcher sought the young people after church, for he had heard of their visit to the neighborhood. 
                
               "Is this Daisy Gilbert V said the minister, extending his hand to the young lady. 
               "That was once my name, sir; this is a happy day, Mr. Fletcher, such as I never expected to see. 
               "There are more ministering children than we know of in this naughty world, my young friend; and I have heard from these poor people much about the little girl that dropped her words of piety and kindness here." 
               "It was God's way, Mr. Fletcher, from beginning to end; is there anything that I can do for your mission?" 
               "We want books for the library and an assistant teacher in the day-school. I have done my best, but now the school is on the increase, for some come three miles, and I want one who can teach the girls to sew." 
               "I will remember your hints, Mr. Fletcher; my husband has heard much about your efforts, and was early interested in these people; together we will do something for you." 
               It was a pleasant ride along the beach, for all the way Ethel was accosted by the friends of her early childhood; and on the road home, the party discussed how they could benefit this field of Christian labor. 
                
               "I can give twenty pounds," said Ernest. 
               "And I ten," said Ethel. 
               "And so can I," added Isabel Ashton; "it is so pleasant to see the fruits of one's labors, as they appeared to-day." 
               "Whose labors, Isabel?" asked Ethel. 
               "Why Daisy Gilbert's, to be sure, if one may credit all that the people said." 
               "I never labored there, Isabel; I was a little child." 
               "No, not in the sense of teaching, sister; but little words, gentle actions, childish books and papers, all have done their work here." 
               "Do you attend this little church altogether, Ellen?" inquired Ethel. 
               "Yes, there is no other, and mamma is pleased to have us go. Mr. Fletcher is an intelligent companion, as well as a Christian minister, and Sophy and I both teach in the Sunday-school, while mamma has charge of the mothers' meeting." 
               In a few days, the party visited New York. Ethel had some purchases to make, and we find them busily engaged in selecting books for the library, as well as some gifts for Aaron and Margaret. 
               The bookcase, with a large box of books, followed them in a few days; and after making out the catalogue, they had the pleasure of seeing the delight of both people and children at the sight of the beautiful books on the day that the library was first opened. 
               It was a sweet recompense to the givers, as they walked to the lighthouse after church, for all along the road, the children were showing each other their pretty books, and talking about their kind benefactors. 
               "My mother said that she used to know that lady when she was a little girl." 
               "It seems wonderful," said another, "how she should come back again to the old place after being away so many years." 
               "She looks so good," said another, "I guess she must be very happy; for Mr. Fletcher says that everybody is happy that likes to do good." 
               A few more weeks of pleasant rambling, when they have seen all that they desire; Ernest has sold Oakdale to Mrs. Crosby, and they are preparing for a return to England. 
               It is their last visit to the seashore, and they have chosen a lovely afternoon for their farewell. Seated on the beach, they are admiring in silence the lovely prospect. 
               Evening is approaching, and the rays of the setting sun are illuminating the sea, as well as the heavens; the birds are seeking their nests, and the scream of the sea-mew is a familiar sound to the ears of both. The sea is slightly agitated, for the gentle breeze is rippling its waves, whose music murmurs in low monotonous notes, as they approach and recede slowly from the shore. 
               The watchers are similarly affected by the surroundings of the sweet hour. 
               "We shall never see this shore again, Ernest," said his companion, "for it is by no means likely that we shall have any call to America." 
               "I feel that it is a farewell, Daisy, but we shall always remember the old lighthouse with peculiar feelings." 
               "Yes, Ernest, who can doubt the wonder-working ways of Providence, that knows my history; a little waif cast upon this rocky coast, all lost but the one helpless child." 
               "Do you ever think of the great cloud of witnesses that surrounds our path, Daisy? I am sure that they were watching on that fearful night; and that while one bore the mother up to heaven, the other cast the little child upon this sea-beach, to be the gentle messenger of mercy to the fishermen in America, and more than that in England." 
               Ethel took out her pocket Testament, and read: 
               "But ye are come unto Mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels. 
                
               "To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God, the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect. 
               "And to Jesus, the Mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel." 
               "How grand the thought, Daisy, that the apostle seems to intimate in the chapter preceding, that our course is watched by all the holy saints of old gone home to glory, naming so many who triumphed through faith, and ending with a record of the noble army of martyrs, who sealed their fidelity in blood!" 
               "That is the company of witnesses, Ernest; look upward beyond those glorious clouds, and think how thin the veil that separates us from the world of spirits." 
               "We need not fear, Daisy, if we are the subjects of such interest; and in daily communion with the Great Mediator, we may well feel our feet upon a rock." 
               Blessed and holy communion! such is the marriage sanctioned by him who blessed a wedding-feast by his presence. The visit is drawing to an end; Ethel has taken leave of her seashore friends, has worshiped for the last time in the little church, and is soon upon the broad ocean on her return to England. 
               The rose of health is blooming on her cheek once more, and the eye is bright and sparkling as in former days. 
               Isabel has enjoyed her visit very much, but is delighted with the thought of being soon at home, for it has new charms now. 
               Her presence has made Ethel very happy, for there are so many marks of sweet humility in her daily walk that there is no more doubt of the indwelling of the blessed Spirit. 
               They are in England once more, and much as Ethel has been delighted with her visit, she feels that dear old England is her real home. 
               There is no delay at the landing-place, for all are equally anxious to be at the Park. A short journey brings them in sight of familiar objects. 
               "How natural everything appears!" said Ethel, as she glanced out of the carriage-windows on either side to hail former acquaintances. 
               "Look, Isabel! there is one of our friends," pointing to a rook careering around the church-steeple. "I do believe that he is straight from the Park; even his coarse notes are welcome, for they do so remind me of home." 
                
               "There are the bells, too I" answered Isabel; "I wonder what day it is." 
               "It is one of our church-days, for the people are coming along the lane; stop the carriage, Ernest; there is dear old grandma, on her way to church." 
               And in another minute, Margaret was in the carriage, folded in the arms of her darling. 
               "How well you look, Daisy!" said the happy old woman; "the roses are all back again, and you are yourself once more." 
               "Yes, I am perfectly well now, and go glad to be at home, never to go away again for any length of time, I hope; but how are they all at the Park?" 
               "Well and happy, beginning to look for your return." 
               It was a joyful gathering at Ashton Park that day, for Ethel had gone away so broken in health and spirits, now bright and well, and so much to tell of her visit to the old seashore. 
               "You should have seen Ethel among the people there, papa," said Isabel; "I can assure you that she was quite a young princess in their opinion; it must be pleasant to be so caressed after an absence of so many years; but there are some sweet marks of Daisy Gilbert's footsteps along the shore yet, papa." 
               Papa glanced with a gratified smile at his wife, as he listened to these remarks, so different from former times. 
               "What footprints did you see, Isabel?" inquired Mr. Ashton. 
               "A pretty little school-house and church; industry, content and piety, where idleness, profanity and dirt once reigned." 
               The father pressed a kiss upon the cheek of the speaker, as he said, 
               "God be thanked that you have eyes to see all this now, my daughter." 
               The weaving is running harmoniously once more; no jagged thrums now, but threads of peace and hope and love. 
               But there is still the life of discipline; bright tissues do not always appear, for that is not the design of the Master. In the upper world only, all will be a finished warp of harmony and beauty. 
               In the mean while, let us take comfort in the thought of the holy watchers who witness every step of our earthly pilgrimage. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               WEAVING STILL. 
               KATHLEEN is happy now in serving one she loves so well. 
               She is shut up alone with Ethel, and is telling all the news. 
               "So many will be glad to have you with us again," said the girl; "there's Mrs. Bond has hardly been like herself since you went away, but now she's bright as a lark again; and the little orphans have sent messages so often to the Park." 
               "I must ride over to see them," was the reply, "for I have brought each one a work-box furbished with working utensils." 
               Ethel was soon established in her own sweet ministry once more, and now she had the happiness of Isabel's co-operation in all her plans. 
               "This is a fine morning, sister," said the young lady; "suppose that we go over to the asylum, Isabel; we will call for Mary Tremaine, and take our gifts with us." 
               It is the hour of recess when they reach the house, and the children are made very happy by the gifts of their kind friends. 
               "They will make good use of them," said the matron, a for they are learning to sew beautifully." 
               Mary Clare is a very promising child, and having exhibited decided musical talent, she has been taking lessons for some time, and Ethel is delighted with her progress. 
               Thus from day to day, she is still the ministering spirit at the Park. 
               She has claimed Lady Mary Campbell's promised' visit, and we find her friend soon domesticated with the family. 
               Ethel has told her the story of the little church on the seashore in America, and a handsome donation is added to that which she has collected since her return to England, and forwarded to Mr. Fletcher, telling him to expect the same amount yearly. 
               Ernest is preparing for orders in the Church of England, and is obliged to leave home once more. 
               "Don't be low-spirited, Daisy," said the young man, as he took leave of her; "I have made considerable progress in my studies, and shall not be obliged to stay so long as many others." 
               "I will be very busy, Ernest, and time well employed cannot hang heavily." 
               But still there were weary evening hours. Ethel was happy once more when a letter from Ernest came at length, announcing the fact that the close of another year would bring him home again; joyful news for the young wife. 
               The weary months rolled away, broken by weeks of vacation; the time of separation has ended at last, and Ernest is to be ordained in Skipton church. 
               The good bishop is staying at the rectory, and Mr. Ashton is quite exercised by the intelligence that the rector is about to remove to a distant parish. 
               It was with heartwarm sincerity, that Ernest Rutgers took the solemn vows that bound him for life to the service of the sacred ministry. 
               And who can tell the emotions of anxious friends when listening to the first sermon of one they love? 
               He is a fine-looking man, with a face beaming with benevolence, an expressive, dark gray eye, and a smile of peculiar sweetness playing around his mouth. Ethel looks upon her husband with pride; 'tis true that it is a human feeling, but who can blame the true, loyal wife? 
               Ernest Rutgers is not preaching so much before men as in the sight of God; therefore, with a deeply humble manner, he proclaims the truth as it is in Jesus. 
               There are no tricks of oratory, no vain display of learning, but the holding up in his most precious offices, of Jesus, the Saviour of mankind. 
               Ethel's heart went up in prayer for her dear companion, and with that ascended the aspiration, that she might prove indeed a helpmeet in the Lord to this young minister of the cross. 
               The old couple at the lodge were in waiting at the church door, and as Ernest and Ethel passed out, Aaron pressed the minister's hand, saying, 
               "God bless you, dear Mr. Ernest, and give, you great success!" 
               Margaret's eyes were swimming with tears as she added, 
               "God is good in bringing us to this, country, where our Daisy is a minister's wife." 
               It is the evening of that impressive Sunday, and the household at the Park are assembled in the library at evening prayer, for Richard Ash ton has a family altar now. 
               The servants are dismissed, and the rest remain for an hour's sacred music and converse. 
               "Well, Ernest," said Mr. Ashton, "I trust that we shall not be separated. I have spoken to the bishop concerning the parish, and he has promised to use his influence for you." 
               "What a happy lot!" said Ethel, who was standing by the organ, her arm linked in his; "just think, Ernest, of living at the old rectory, close to the Park, in the midst of dear, loving friends!" 
               "I must say that I am a little disappointed," remarked Lady Mary (who was still at the Park); "I had hoped that we should have you at Edgehill, for our good rector's health is so precarious that he has been obliged to resign." 
               "We shall expect an annual visit, Lady Mary," was the reply; "and there are many ways in which to work together, even though separated in body." 
               "There is one request that I have to make," replied the lady, "and that is, that Isabel may accompany me when I return home." 
               The invitation was cordially accepted, and it was manifest by the glow of pleasure on the young lady's face, how happy this mark of regard had made her. 
               It had been a most delightful season at the Park, for Ethel, with Lady Mary, Isabel and Mary Tremaine, had some employment daily which interested all alike. 
               Sometimes, a ride to Laneton, a visit to the parish school a mission to some sick person, a ramble on the cliff, a call at the lodge in the day-time; then music in the evening in the drawing-room, where the neighboring families are frequently entertained, with family prayers closing each happy day. 
                
               It was at the close of one of these, that the good rector had come to take his daughter home. 
               He had an open letter in his hand, and a smile upon his face. 
               "I have good news, Mr. Ashton; this is a letter from the bishop, telling me that Ernest is to be my successor. I have another for him, I suppose with the same news. I shall leave my parish now with much less regret, when I can commit my charge to one whom I know so well." 
               "I am so glad," said Isabel, "for I don't know how I could have given Ethel up to strangers." 
               Ethel and mamma are alone for a short period, talking of the present and the future. 
               "How entirely Isabel is changed!" said the sister; "we scarcely know her to be the same, mamma." 
               "It is a great comfort to me, dear, for she is truly a very sweet companion now, and will help to supply the loss of your society, Ethel." 
               "I am glad that she is going home with Lady Mary, for she really has somewhat morbid ideas of her own deficiencies, and the kind interest that my friend takes in her, will help to revive her self-respect." 
               "I would rather see her just as she is, Ethel; she is in the school of the Redeemer, and he will lead her in the right path." 
                
               Lady Mary's visit has drawn to a close, and Isabel has accompanied her to Edgehill. 
               Ethel looks forward sadly to the parting from Mary Tremaine, for she has been a friend ever since the first week that she reached Ashton Park, and in the years of Isabel's estrangement, she had been the beloved companion of the younger sister. 
               Their last interview was in Mary's room at the rectory. 
               "Remember, Mary, that this is your room still, and I shall expect you to fill it at least one month out of every year." 
               They were standing by the window, looking out upon the pleasant prospect. 
               "I wonder if I shall have such a sweet garden view in my new home," said the young lady. 
               The smell of fragrant flowers came up from the trelliswork outside of the window, and the beds were filled with rare and lovely plants. 
               The garden lay between the rectory and the church, the gate opening into the churchyard. 
               "That is a dear old church, Ethel," said Mary; "there I was confirmed, and there I partook of my first communion. I have joined in the sweet and holy services for all these happy years; rejoiced in the Christmas greens, helped to arrange the Easter flowers: and there sleep my two sweet infant brothers, Ethel, just by the east window. I can never love another church as I do old Skipton." 
               "But you take the dear rector with you, Mary." 
               "I am so glad that you are to be at the rectory, Ethel, for I know that you will take charge of so many things that I should never commit to stranger." 
               "You'll be sure to come every spring, Mary, won't you?" 
               "If my parents are willing to part with me; but you shall hear very frequently." 
               "I must go now, Mary; farewell, and may God be with you and bless you." 
               Mamma and Ethel are very busy in preparing for the occupation of the rectory. 
               It is an old English mansion, with its many gables, its low piazza and pretty, tasteful grounds. Ethel had always admired its heavy walnut wainscoting, its deep-set windows, and pleasant rooms. 
               Papa has furnished the house with substantial furniture, carpets of modest colors, and just such articles of taste as Ethel admired. 
               There are, moreover, all things necessary to comfortable housekeeping, and when Ethel seated herself for the first evening in her pretty sitting-room, with her own parlor organ in one recess she felt that she ought to be a very grateful, happy being; and the dedication that went up to God on that occasion of family prayer came from two thankful hearts that here devoted their all to the Giver. 
               It is a small family circle, for Ernest and Ethel, with Kathleen, Hannah, the old cook employed by Mrs. Tremaine, and Sarah, the chambermaid, composed the household. 
               Ethel always leads the singing, and the accompaniment of the organ is a delightful feature in the family devotions. 
               Mr. Ashton has sent over a small carriage and horse for the use of his daughter, "For," said he, "Ethel could never get along without one; she is such an active creature, that she would walk herself, to death, rather than neglect duty; and we can very well spare one for her use." 
               "Dear papa! how good he is!" said the "young lady, as she patted her favorite horse upon the head; "with Jack and Lightfoot we can take many a pleasant ride." 
               "Let us go this afternoon, Ethel, for next week I must commence my pastoral visits, and I shall then be full of care." 
               It was a lovely autumn afternoon, and soon after dinner they started for the ruins. 
               "How bright and lovely the sky is to-day!" said Ethel, as she looked upon the clouds driven across the heavens in silvery groups by a brisk breeze. 
               "Yes, they are charming," was the reply, "but nothing compared to the bright autumn skies of America, nor do we ever see the glowing tints in the forests here as there." 
               "But their spring can not be compared to ours in England, the season there is so late; nothing is more lovely than the fresh green of our early spring." 
               "What an English girl you are, Daisy!" said her husband, laughing. 
               "It is my native land, Ernest." 
               They are passing by the cottages in the rural lanes, the country-seats of the English gentry, and a few lordly castles of the nobles. 
               About a mile from the Park a new element has sprung up lately, inviting the most degraded and ignorant population. 
               They have drawn up their horses for a moment, while Ernest is looking thoughtfully upon the landscape. 
               "These are our people, Daisy, and I hope to labor in this field, large enough for a faithful pastor, with you to help me in your own natural sphere!" 
               These words were slowly and. solemnly spoken as Ernest turned to his companion. 
                
               "I want to know my duty, Ernest, but never to step out of the lovely path of womanhood." 
               "The model in the New Testament is all-sufficient, Daisy; the field of the Christian wife is there beautifully marked out." 
               "You would not object to my engaging in parish work, Ernest?" 
               "Far from it; where ignorance is to be taught, poverty to be relieved, sorrow to be comforted, there is woman's province, and there I wish you to be found, Daisy; but we must never forget that Christians are set by Providence in families, and the pastor's household must be a model for his people." 
               "We have an interesting flock, Ernest-so many intelligent and pious families that we shall not be at a loss for social intercourse." 
               "In order to live systematically, Daisy, I have thought that once a week it might be understood that you are ready to receive evening visitors; that will save time, and enable you to become acquainted with the people." 
               But they are at the stopping-place, and, fastening their horses to a tree, they take a seat in the ruined abbey. 
               The sunset is streaming in through the broken windows, and the song of the thrush is filling the old building with its sweet music. 
                
               They are sitting in silence, looking at the marble slabs that lay around. 
               "Life's work is ended there, Ethel" said her husband; "its feverish strife is over, and they have entered the long eternity." 
               "We are just commencing ours, Ernest, It is very sweet to feel that we are in the hands of such a good, loving Father, willing to work for him, and then to be with him for ever." 
               "If we are his, we must expect the marks of adoption, Daisy, for 'whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth;' but come, deal, it is time for us to turn our faces homeward." 
               And there were the old couple from the lodge, waiting to see their darling. 
               "I am so glad to see you!" said Ethel, hurrying off Margaret's bonnet and shawl; "you are going to stay with us this evening?" 
               "I don't think that I can, Daisy," was the reply; "I have left no orders at home." 
               "I will arrange all that, grandma;" and calling Kathleen, she sent over to the lodge to say that the two were stopping at the rectory to tea. Ethel brought out her best tea-service, and ordered the very nicest meal, with just what the old people liked, while they watched her thoughtful tenderness. 
               "You are my first visitors to tea," said the young lady; "to be sure, papa and mamma were here yesterday, but I don't call them company." 
               The old people sat with their eyes fixed upon Ethel, admiring the grace and sweetness with which she served her childhood's friends. 
               "Who would have thought that we should ever sit down at Daisy's own table?" said Margaret. 
               "The ways of Providence are very strange," replied Ernest; "they have led us, my good friends, into a very sweet home." 
               "I was so afraid that Daisy would be taken away from us in our old age, Mr. Ernest; but I hope that she'll close our eyes for us in their last sleep yet." 
               Ethel observed that Aaron's steps were growing very feeble, for a long attack of rheumatism had affected his limbs, and almost disabled him from work. 
               It was not long ere he was supplied with the services of a man instead of a boy, and all that he had to do was to look after the rooks, and keep an eye on the deer, who were very tame and had learned to follow the old man in his walks. 
               Little Edward comes over daily to receive instruction from his sister, and Isabel is at home again, frequently now at the rectory-Ethel's helper in all her good works. There is a ministry for Ethel Rutgers, womanly, gentle, holy. 
                
               In her own family circle she is weaving her silver threads still; in the parish, too, among the ignorant, the sinful and the sorrowing, she is casting her shuttles and fashioning the mystic web. 
               The angels are still the watchers, for "are they not all ministering spirits, sent to minister to those who shall be heirs of salvation?" 
               Surrounded by a cloud of witnesses, we leave the child of Providence, assured that every changing phase of the earthly web will be under the eye of the Great Master, who, sometimes among lines of beauty, then among tangled threads and thrums, and even among broken filaments, is fashioning that which will hereafter be a tissue of glorious perfection and beauty, and we leave Daisy Gilbert weaving still. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
