
    ----CITATION----
        Barrington, F. Clinton. The Young Fisherman, or, The Cruiser of the English Channel .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7459
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The young fisherman, or, The cruiser of the English Channel 
            
               ~z;

f "f .',
T.HE~xkfrt549?~-ttv

OIL, THE
CRUISER OF THE ENGLISH OLIANNEL.

BY F. CLINTON   ARIX-ow9
BOSTON:'
F.e GLEA    eN'S PIJBLIIlJNG hALL,
UORtNER 0  } O~FtIELD AD_ B Q E ~  8
E ner  J ccc rd ing yy to  A ct  of  Cn  ess ^ . n 'the  y rk8 1 yjj  "  f U/M r a  !i i  A   2~ ~
4  V   f     District Cbur Lt ofJiasae&amp;Y u.1
V  N  V  7 {1 N I  1  v.y, f T

1

I

I


4

PUBLISHER'S NOTE.-The following Novelette was originally published in the PITORIAL
DnAWIN-RooM COMPANION, and is but a specimen of 'the many deeply-entertaining Tales,
and gems of literary merit, which grace the columns of that elegant and highly-popular journal.
The COMPANION embodies a corps of contributors of rare literary excellence, and is regarded
as the ne plus ultra by its scores of thousands of readers.
GLEASON'S PICTORIAL
DRWIR4f10M                                  IOPAIUR,
A RECORD OF THE BEAUTIFUL AND USEFUL IN ART.
The object of this paper is to present, in the most elegant and available form, a weekly literary
melange of notable events of the day.' Its columns are devoted to original tales, sketches and
poemas, by the
BEST AMERICAN AUTHORS,
the cream of the domestic and foreign news; the whole well spiced with wit and.humor.
}    paperr is
with numerous accurate engravings,.by eminent artists, of notable objects, current events in all
parts of the world, and of men and manners, altogether making a paper entirely original -in its
design in this, country. Its pages contain views of every populous city in the knbwn world, of
all buildings of note in the eastern or western hemisphere, of all the principal ships and steamers
of' the navy and merchant service, with fine portraits of every noted character in the world, male
and female. Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from  life; are also given, with numerous
specimens from the animal kingdom, the birds of the air, and the fish. of 'the sea. - The Compan-
ion is now printed on the finest of satin-surface paper, from a;ontof new and beautiful type,
manufactured expressly for it,-presenting in its mechanical erecu , an elegant specimen of art.
Itcontains fifteen hundred and sixty-four square inches, giving a geat' amount of reading matter
and illustrations-a maamoth weekly paper of sixteen octavo page'' It forms
91 T         7 91 1-2 d         a-d  - 1P N M
inasmuch as its aim is constantly, in connection with the fund of amusement it affords, and the
rich array of original miscellany it presents, to inculcate the strictest and highest tone of morality,
and to encourage virtue. by holding up to, view all that is good and pure, and avoiding all that is
evil in its tendency. In short, the object is to make the .paper loved,'respected, and sought after
for its combined excellences.-
'TERMS:-INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
1 Subscriber, one year .... ...................................$3 00
'2 Subscribers, "  "........................5 00
4                    .........         .....................   ..900
8  Oct  cc  it16 0
Any'names may be added to the last number at the rate of $200 per annum.
D7 One copy of the FLAG OF OUR UNIoN, and one copy of the PICTORIAL DRAWINGROOM
'COMPANION, one year, for                                                .     $4 00
. DrThe PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION may be obtained at any of the periodical
4epots throughout the country, and of newsmen, at six cents per single copy.
Published every SATURDAY, corner of Bromfield and Tremont Streets, by
F. G L E A S ON, BOSTON, MAsS.
WHOLESALEE A                                        TNT8.
S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spr -street, New York.
A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.       -
W. &amp; H. TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore and 5 $outh Streets, Baltimore,
A. C. BAGLEY, 118 Main Street, Cincinnati.
J. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.
E. K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Streets, St. Louis.
Subscriptions received at either of the above places.

3

,7D; U~$1'
+A,  try

spotted with. innuinxe ble specq,;somwpwhite d
snow-flakes, others black! as thqyp egated their
ilhtmined or, ebadowy sids ,totha  e  There
are vessels.of all':sizes and mreot rs "steering
everyone on a i erent  ppgo eon errands
of commerce) others beating me ages of war.
Here and there amongthem; goeaa dark, mast-
less craft, trailing a lgg;clou49tsopgepe smoke
after her along, the air, an&amp; posing ship. sfter
ship with a speed that mocks tam,
Such is the'present spes-'t'ete Iseenery visi
ble from the.elifforwhich stands Castle Vane.,
on any bright morning  auner.  ut at th
period of. our talerits featre e w j  oiewhat
different.% Nosteam~~p these plQ gh  t o  t
nel, and fewer vessels were;sepp  Jg
panse *: hi eCastlo e9ig        be
suin, lifted iitas;dalls :n4t  ern4 bristli
battleieeits -as''high ,  pradl y j"any lordly
castle in the land of inglegd , y
iAlmot-verhtng by tlhemi le w the small
fishingport of Brigt     onet of
threescore huts, whe  .'hor a rs't on
r.  ir i  j     r,  (  t .    i  zf  +
1._el

t

9

CHAPTER L'

CASTLE VANE-A YOUNG FISHERMAN.

ON the'shores of the Sussex, there is no ob-
ject that fills with a deeper' interest the eye of
the tourist, both on account of its picturesqub
aspect and itshistorical asstoiations; than Castle
Vane. At the present time it is a stately ruin,
but yet majestic in decay. Time, while rending,
its massive towers; has also bound them together
witistrong net-work of vines of ivy and creep-
ing plants, so that they stand like venerable age
pnorted by the entwining arm of'charity and
filiallove.
The prospect from the eminence -on which
stands this noble ruin is varied-and'wide-extend-
ed. Northwardly, the -green vales and pleasant
uiplands of aMerry England" retire, away till'
softly lost 'ix the dissolving distauee  To the,
eastand west are seen turreted towns and ports
with anchored shipping aidt defending fortresses.
To the douth is outspread' the shining, blue{
waters of the channel,'briad nd mirrorliko,
'r J'and bounded in the far sontliex'iiherizon' hfthe
faint azure-gray'line'f the coast of Normtandy
The glimmering sheed of the 'aualit channel is

4

0

TUE TOUNO FISHERMAN.


8

class of men, who subsisted by fishing in the
channel. From the terrace of the castle one
could toss a penny into the chimney tops of two
or three of the nearest cottages, though the
dwellings were generally some distance apart,
following the windings of a street around the
a curving shore of the cove. There was an air of
neatness and thrift about most of the habita-
tions, each having a small garden patch and a
yard in front wherein to dry their nets and fish.
If there was any superiority in the appearance
of either of these cabins over the other, it was to
be claimed by one which stood near the foot of
the cliff, and close to the path which wound
from the beach to its summit. This superioriy
consisted in its being whitewashed, and in hav-
ing vines growing over the narrow doorway in
imitation of an alrch, beneath which were two
wooden benches, from which, persons seated
upon them had a pleasant view of the channel
with its moving craft. That spot, also, wherein
the other fishermen dried their nets, was by the
proprietor of this abode made.a flower garden,
while on the surrounding rocks were spread his
nets and sun-dried fish.
One evening in May, in the year 1650, about
half an hour before sunset, a fishing boat came
sailing into the cove from the channel, and
steered directly for the rude landing is front of
the cottage 'we have described. its bow was
shattered! and it was evidently leaking freely,.
and kept from sinking oily by-the extraordinary
exerions of a young fisherman, who was its sole;
occupant, and who was :bailing out water con--
stantly as he approached the shore: At -length
the smack touched the beach, and with an ex-
clamatiol of satisfaction the young man leaped
on shore.
Theldahgrln which the boat had ,been was
apparMd *6 ore than, one in the village, and
encouraging lhouts had been sent to the young
man's'earfkeepup his strength and not lose
his coiirag&amp;. herefore, on reaching the land in
efety, he foun&amp; himself in the midst 'of some
score of is group, composed of the fishers' wives,
of maides, and of such old men as=had given
oper=ctive service, They looked at the shat-
tered bow of the boat with surprise, and while
sone e6ngratulsied him with having gpt safely.
tolandaoth isagerly inquired how e had got.
solidly wrede :
" It is of no consequence, friends," answered
the young man, as he secured the boat-to one of
he posts of the pier, "acei4ents will happen at
* ,  ea, you know-

I

THE 'UNG FISHERMAN.

This was said with a pleasant laugh; but his
mother, who drew near to welcome him after
the danger she conceived he had been in from
drowning-for he had been seen by her a league
at sea, struggling to save his boat, which he had
so gallantly brought in-knew that the smile
was forced and unnatural to his usually frank
and open face.
" There is something in this," she said shak-
ing her head and turning to two of her particu-
lar gossips, " there is something in this matter
more 'than Guilford sees fit to tell."
The young man,having secured the craft high
up on the beach and furled'the sails, shouldered
a pair of. oars, and with a flushed brow, and a
proud, defiant air, strode up towards the cottage,
without regarding-'his friends, whom he left ex-
amining the boat and wondering how it could
have been so shattered unless it had been run
into.
-" That is it," asserted an old fisherman, who
had carefully examined the broken shearing
" she ha' been run into, an' by a heavier craft
than herself. "
The young fisherman, having deposited his
oars in the becket above one of the cottage win-
dows,.on the outside of the house, instead of
going in, began to pace up and down in the lit-
tle shell-covered walk before it. His eyes were
restless and fiery,his attitude erect andewarlike,
and ;his- heavy step seemed to fall tr the sound
of a" trumpet. Something: evidently had' oc-
curred to rouse in the bosom pf the young fish-
erman all the pride, independence, and haughty
resentment of the man; for beneath the fustian
jacket may beat as much pride and sense of
honor as beneath the ermine of u born noble.
The appearance of 'the young fisherman was
superior to that of young men of his class and
occupation. This superiority did not consist in
dreso, for his clothing-was as coarse and rude as
that of any of his fellows ; nor in the symmetry
of his person, for there were, in the hamlet. as
well shaped young men as he ; but it was in the'
noble expression of his whole form and face.
He looked like onebor. rather to command
those with whom ho daily associated, than to be
merely their equal. This innate power in him
they recognized, though it was never demanded
by him f'or he eemed wholly unconscious of a
superiority of which all others in the hamlet
were instinctively conscious.- His face was
handsome, and- perhaps- not less so for being
browned by the sea winds till it'was almost as

A

dark as the Arabian. His eyes were black, and
filled with intelligence and courage. As a sea-
man he had no equal on the Sussex coast, of
his age, all men acknowledged. As a fisherman
he was skilled in the craft, in all its details, so
that no one ever surpassed him in success. If
other boats came back empty, Guilford Gra-
ham's was sure to contain some fruits of his
skill and patience. In trials of strength and
agility in those holiday sports which the youths
of the hamlet used to indulge in, challenging to
competition some inland village, he always
came off vctor. For filial obedience in support-
ing a widowed mother, for manly protection of
his beautiful cousin, Anne .Graham, for his fast
abiding as a friend, and his reverence for holy
things, Guilford was an example to all the
young men on the coast. His popular manners,
his constant cheerfulness and good nature, made
him a general favorite ; and many a pretty1
maiden sighed in her heart for the love of the
handsome Guilford.
" What aileth thee, my son ?" asked his moth-
er. " Something hath gone across thy temper,'
and shade thee vexed,-tell me what is the mat-
ter with thee ?"
He stopped in his fierce walk, turned, and
taking both ber hands in his, he pressed them
with affectionate respect, and looking her in the

9

face, would have spoken ; but some strong emo-
tion rising, checked his utterance, and tears
filled his eyes and ran down his cheeks. He re-
leased her' hands, dashed the glittering drops
from his face, and v'ould have walked away,
when she gently held him.
"Nay, Guilford, you must come and sit down
in the porch and tell me what has happened.
Tears in my brave boy's eyes ! Ah, something
heavy has pressed upon thy soul this day, to
force tears from thee !"
" Come and sit down, mother, and I will tell
thee," he said, after a moment's hiternal'-strug-
gle. " You are wise and discreet, and may be
able to advise me. But you will not despise me
when you shall know all my rash folly ?"
"You must first prove to me that you have
been rash or foolish, who were never known to
be so," said his mother, who, though humble in
station and poorly attired, seemed to be, as he
had said, a wise and discreet woman ; being a
person of that plain common sense, so much
oftener found in low conditions of life, than in
tile more artificial circles of society ; and to her
influence was owed, doubtless, his superiority,-
for it is the woman that forms the character of
the growing man, and her plastic hand leaves
its impression on every moral outline.

THE YOUNG FISHI MAN.

~ .         r

'4

r      x           ,:
t
"  -       f  ..
+                             vj
"3   +!,   }
!                                 jq,    j
e.

i


I

1

CHAPTER II.
A NARRATIVE OF INTEREST.
THE young man had led his mother to the   " ihat is not so certain, my boy," she said,
wooden bench beneath the green arch that gravely but doubtingly ; " butif we may worship
spanned the humble doorway, and there, shel- the blessed Mary, we may not worship earthly
teredby the growing foliage, he said to her:  maidens."
" Mother, when you have heard what I-have  "I can see no harm in adoring one so fair and
to say, give me your wisest counsel. If I were good as the Lady Catharine, dear mother," an-
to act, led only by my own impulses, I can see swered the young fisherman, with enthusiasm.
plainly that I should do a greater evil than has  "You should not think of her, my son, for
been done tome. You remember with what your words and looks make me fear."
buoyancy I left this morning to go on my daily  '"No evil can come of honoring and delighting
fishing cruise ?"                         in Lady Catharine, dear mother.  She always
" Yes, and spoke of it to Anne before she speaks to me so graciously. The day, you re-
went to the castle. Methinks I never saw you member, when I succeeded in saving the noble-
look-handsomer or appear happier."        men who were driven on the coast in a French
"And well might I have looked happy, dar barque, she told me she only wished that she.*
mother; I had just seen and spoken with Lady could have had a brother who could have done
Catharine !"                              this; and ever since then, although it is a year
" Yes, it always makes one cheerful to see her ago, she has always seemed to speak to me with
sunny face, boy."                         a peculiar kindness.",
" Ah, dear mother, you know not how the   " One of them that you saved was her uncle,
sunshine of her face penetrates to and warms my Sir Harry Vane, and she feels grateful. My
heart. In ,her presence I feel a joy-a bliss-a son, do not think of the great ; their words are
happiness, that I experience at no other time. air, and their smiles deceit and guile. If you
The sound of her voice thrills to my inmost soul. go on thinking somuch about every smile and,
I feel that I could worship her, and adore the word a noble lady gives you, you will do some
very flower crushed by her footstep."     foolish thing. Forget the Lady Catharine, boy,
" You should not speak thus, my boy ; it is a 4d if you must think of fair maidens, which is
sin to worship only God."'                natural enough for a youth of four-and-twenty,
" And the Virg- "                       let it be of those of thine own station."

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.                11

1"There are tales of noble maidens being loved
and won' by lowly youths, mother," answered
Guilford, with a certain light of hope and daring
speaking in his fine eyes.
" And only in tales ,are they won-never in
reality and truth, my son." -        -
" We will not talk of this now, mother. Hear
what I have to say to thee touching what hath
happened to-day."
" That is what I would most listen to."
"After I had embarked this morning for the
channel grounds to fish, and when I had 'got out
to the rocks over which we cast our lines, I
lowered my sails and proceeded to fish as usual.
It was a cloudless day, and the fish swam too
deep for my hooks, and so I lay back listlessly
in my boat, and amused myself, as I love to do
when I am rocking alone in my boat out on the
bounding sea, with gazing abgut me. A hun-
dred craft similar to my own were riding gently
upon the undulating waves, and here and there
could be seen a tall ship with triple towers of
white canvas, crossing from England to France
or from France to England. But those-objects
soon wearield my eyes, which very shortly rested
upon the cliff and lordly tower that soars above
our little hamlet. Its castellated angles and
battlements were figured in strong, dark lines
against the blue sky, and'it seemed the proper
home of the noble' lord who dwells there."
'You speak of our Castle Vane, my son."
" Yes, mother. As my eye rested upon it, I
could not but recall its fairest inmate ; for I
never behold'it that I do not think less of every
one it contains than of the Lady Catharine. To
my imagination she seemed the' only dweller
there. Nay, do not frown, mother. As I was
gazing on the castellated pile, I recalled, not
only the lovely face and form of Lady Catha
rine, but the time when we first met. Do you
remember it, dear mother ?"
" Nay, I do not mind such little matters. It
was so long ago thou shouldst scarce remind it.'
" I shall'never forget it. It is a delight foi
me to recall it, ad a joy to talk of it. It wa
five years ago only. I was then nineteen, an
it was my birth-day fete ; and on that occasion
you had presented me with a new jacket, an
cousin Anne had 'broidered for me a gay cap."
"IAh, well do I recollect the jacket and cap
and how gallant you looked in them my bOy."
. "After supperI was going to a dance at Tin
A Dowlin's, in honor of his pretty daughter Peggy'
marriage, when, as I was crossing the road tha

leads from the bench round by the mill, in order
to reach Tim's before dark, I saw a horse com-
ing towards me at full speed along the old Sus-
sex road. On it was a young girl, who had lost
all command'of the animal, who, with the 'reins
flying, was evidently running away with her. '
She did not shriek, nor speak a word, but as she
approached me she cast on me such looks of
appeal for succor, that, regardless, of danger, I
threw myself with both'hands upon the horse's
head, and dropping to the ground,.let him drag
me several yards before he could be checked.
At 'every leap forward he made, I expected to.
feel his iron hoofs crushing into my chest ; but
the beauty and imploring looks of the lovely
girl, which seemed to appeal to me as her last
and only hope of life, gave 'me courage, and
strength; 'and at length I brought the horse's
head and knees to the ground, and held him
with a power of muscle that I have never felt
the possession of since; until shegot from the
saddle unharmed. I then released my hold of
the horse, who furiously bounded away like the
wind. My next thought was of the young girl
. I had been instrumental in saving. She sprang
towards me; grasped me by both hands in the
warmest manner, and with eyes filled With tears,
and smiling with gratitude, she said with emo-
tion:
" How can words thank you! How can aiy-
thing I can express, young stranger, recompense
you for the risk of life yog have run for el'
" I need no thanks, lady," I said to her, " the
consciousness of ydur safety is all the reward I
can ask or wish for."
" As I made her this answer, I looked, dear
mother, with wonder upon the extraordinary
t beauty of her face. I had never imagined there
was such loveliness on earth.. She was about
fifteen years of age, but with the charming rich.
ness of form of one two or three years older.
t Her eyes were a soft azure, that rivalled the
bending blue of a summer sky on thb seg. Her,
r hood was thrown back, and her golden tresses
s dishevelled bythe swiftness with which her horse'.
d had sped with her in his mad'flight, and I was
completely bewildered with the glory of her
I beauty.
"'Will you tell me,' she said, in tones that
have never ceaed to echo musically in my-souli
' to whom Iam indebted for saving.me from .a
a painful accident, or perhaps a dreadful death'11
a   " It is no matter, lady ; my namn is nothing ;
t it is humble, and if spoken, will be forgotten by.
one so noble as thou art.

' A

. -  ;,
"                                       :   i
r        ,                          w
s               r       ,
..        _'     .    N


12     THE YOUNG FISHERMAN. ,R

"'Dost thou know me, then ?' she asked,
with a smile of surprise. 'I have not been here,
before since I was a very little child.'
"I do not know thy name, lady, but I see that
thou art one of the high born of the land. I
would, for thy sake, that he who has served
thpe to-day had been thy equal. Shall Iremain
near thee, as it is growing late, till thy party
comes up, I asked of her, something gloomily,
too, I fear, for I then, for, the first time, my
mother, felt what it was to be born of low de-
gree. To gaze upon one so fair and good, and
so made to be loved, and feel that I could never
be more to her-than a common hind-this--
this made my cheek kindle and my very heart
sink."
" Guilford, thou art too 'ambitious ; be con-
tent to be what thou art, or thou wilt be a mis.
erable man. Thou canstnot change thy nature.
Nobles are born nobles--fishermen are born fish-
ermen. Do thy duty in what thou art."
"It is well to talk, mother, but'that does not
make one's wretchedness and consciousness of
debasement the less."
"Go on wig} thy story, for I never heard all
this before."-
"tNo, another ear, save that of my cousin
Anne ; and she listened to it with but little in-
terest to what thou dost, mother."
- "Who -was this maiden ? am I right in guess-
ing to be the Lady Catharine, on the day she
came up to the- castle from London, where she
had lived, since she was a child? "
" Yes, mother. When I at length told her
my name, she answered, that hers was Kate
Vane."            ,
" Lady Kate, you mean ? "
"No. She said plain Kate Vane; and this,
with the pretty way she spoke it, made me like
her. I saw she was not proud, although' I told
her I was a fisherman; for when she asked me
to shower the way to the castle, and we walked
on together, she. asked me a great.many ques
tons about the sea, and the fishes, and the way
I caught them; and said, of all things, she
should like to go out some day in my boat, fish
ing with me. Well, after half an hour's walk-
the pleasantest half hour of my life, we reached
the castle gate.  The day had already closed
and the moon was shining brightly.' The-castl
was in a scene of confusion and distress, and
just as we entered, several persons with torches
on foot and on horseback, were coining forth
talking so loudly that we understood from their

words that - the horse which Lady 'Kate had
ridden had reached the castle, and that it was
supposed she had been thrown and killed. But
when she was seen and recognized, who shall
describe the joy. I was quite overlooked in the
first outburst of the surprise and delight of"all,
and instantly withdrew. As I descended the
path, I heard my name called by some one from
the gate who had been sent for me,-doubtless
after Lady Kate had time to, tell them to whom'
she had been indebted for. her escape ; but as I
had no wish to be Thanked by any other than
Lady Catharine, I quickened my pace, and soon
reached the road on the beach. Instead of going
home, I'continued my original route to Tim's ;
and as I passed the spot where I had stopped
the horse, I paused to recall the scene, her face
and voice. As I did so, my eyes were attracted
by something which sparkled in the moonlight.
I picked it up from the ground, and with pleasure
discovered that it was a broken ring. It had
evidently been broken by her strong grasp upon
the bridle, and dropped in two pieces from her
finger when she alighted.. It was a diamond
set in a circle of pearls. I pressed it to my
lips-"-
" Daring boy !" said the mother, half pleased
at his gallantry, yet half disapproving, knowing
as she did the dangerous tendency of such emo-
tions, when once awakened in the bosom  of a
lowly born youth towards- a high-born maiden.
She sighed while she smiled; but the smile
passed, leaving a troubled air upon her calm and
- sensible face. " You returned the ring, of course,
Guilford?"
"When next I saw her; but she bade me
keep it, or rather offered me one in its place, as
she saw Ivalued it as a memento; but when I
told her I would prefer the broken one, found on
I the spot where I had first the happiness.of seeing
her, she told me I might keep it if I would wish
I to."
"And when and where did you meet her, my
son'?."
e " Only the next week after. I was coming in
- from the channel, and steered my boat closer
under the castle than usual, for I thought I saw
d the form of a young girl on the white beach. I
, was not deceived. It was the Lady Kate, gather-
e ing shells. Upon recognizing me sailing past,
, she beckoned to me to land., I did so, for I
, wished to return the ring. She at once began
, playfully to chide me for leaving the castle so
r abruptly, without waiting to be thanked by her

father and brother, and her friends, for what I had
done. I told her I did not wish to be thanked
at all; but if any one was to thank me, one word
from her was a world of thanks. She then told
me that she had been riding with her elder
brother, who was dn Oxford student, then at
home on a-visit, ahead of her party, when a shot
fired by him from his saddle at a heron, had
caused'her horse to take fright and run off with
her. 'My brother,' she said, 'followed me, but
as I turned to the left, while he took'to the
left, he missed me ; and but for you I should
have been killed, for I could not have kept my
saddle three minutes longer, as I was fast losing
all presence of mind. You must come up to the
castle and let my father know you,' she added.
But I told her that I was too lowly to be no-
ticed by nobles, and that I was too proud to be
compelled to feeltheir superiority. At this, she
looked at me with a stare of beautiful surprise,
and shaking her head she said archly :
"'I fear you will 'be too proud to speak to me
by-and-by.'
"0, no, you don't understand me, lady."
"'Yes I do, and what is more, I respect you
for your feelings,' she added. 'I can conceive
how one like you must feel when you are com-
pelled to endure the superiority of others, who

may, in reality, be your inferiors. But you will
not find my father such a nobleman. He knows
how to appreciate merit ; and as for my brother,
I heard him say that he should find you out to
thank you.'
"I then offered to her the ring, which, 4a I
said, she permitted me to retain. Seeing that
she liked the beautiful shells which were scattered
on the beach, of which she had a basket full, but
of indifferent value, I offered to bring her others
from the king's rock beach, where they are to be
found of such rare colors. I then sailed to the
beach and landed to take hey, basket, for our
conversation had taken place while I was stand-
ing in my boat, about ten yards from the land,
when a young man, clad as a hunter, followed by
a couple of dogs, caume round a jutting angte of
the cliff. He was of the middle height, well
made, with long flaxen hair flowing on his
shoulders,.a brown, moustache, and a fair, red
and white complexion.' He was exceedingly
handsome, but an air of angry surprise which he
put on upon discovering us, increased the dis-
agreeable impression his naturally haughty bear-
ing madeupon sie. I saw at a glance that he
was a noble, and the exclamation of Lady Kate,
'my brother !' told me who he was without fur.
ther introduction."

'4

13

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

12

i

_+F
.
y
s
}7    '
r,_     4

f                       i «


0

CHAPTER III.
A HAUGHTY INTERRUPTION.

*"Tu young nobleman," resumed Guilford,
continuing his narrative to his mother, in the
green embowered porch of the cottage, "stood
for an instant regarding fist one and then the
other of us without a word. - He then strode up
and said haughtily:
" Who and what are you, that are so familiar
as to hold converse with this lady, and with thy
cap on, fellow ?' With these words he struck
off my cap to my feet, and one of his dogs taking
it up, carried it off, tearing it with his teeth
"'1Lord Wilmot, how can you be so rash!' ex-
claimed Lady Catharine, with a mingled ex-
pression of pain for me and anger against him.
'This is the young man, Guilford Graham.'
"'And who, pray, is Guilford Graham ' he
repeated, sarcastically.
"'Have you forgotten the name of the brave
youth, who, at the risk of his own life, saved
mine '
"'IHow should one remember every hind's
name ? So, young man, you are the clown that
risked your life and broke the jaw of the best
horse in my father's stud ; for the horse, came to
the castle with his jaw broken as with a sledge-
hammer, and we had to 'shoot him. You have
a hand like Samson. But you did'the thing
well, thought it cost a horse worth a thousand
guineas.'4

"' Brother, how can you speak of su-ch a trifle,
when my life was at stake '
" ' True, but a discreet person should save one
and not destroy the other. There, fellow, are
four guineas ! I dare swear thou hast not seen
so much gold together before, and that it would
take a year's fishing to give thee in haid the
same amount.'
" As he spoke, he threw the gold at my feet.
I did not notice it. I had felt insulted by his
manner, as well as by his words, and by this act.
I did not deign to glance towards him; but I
looked in the face of Lady Catharine. Hereyes .
were alight with just resentment. She felt that-
I had been insulted, peasant as I was.
"' Wilmot, why do     reward courage in
such a strange fashion ?  ne would fancy you
had found in this young  man a foe, rather than
one to whom you owe a debt of gratitude.'
"'Gratitude to one like him!' answered the
young Lord Vane, with a contemptuous glance
at the coarse apparel of Guilford. 'I have paid
him for his service u gold.  What fault can he,
find I By the rood ! " t'would seem, from the
familiar manner in wl ich; I found him holding
converse with you, K*e,:that he presumed more
than becometh a hin&amp; -Fellow, get into. thy
boat and begone ; and think not, because c'hance-
hath made thee the mean instrument ofsaving
14+

a high born lady's life, that thouhast gage there-
from for speaking to her.'--
"'He did but offer to collect shells for me,
brother,' said the Lady Catharine, reproachfully,
1I called to him. le is in no ways to blame.'
"'Then it is you who are to blame, to de-
scend to speak to a youth like this, who will
boast in the ale-houses among his fellows that
he has held tryst with the Lady Kate Vane.'
" At these words, the eyes of the maiden flash-
ed fire, but instantly filling with tears, she said:
You are ungenerous, Rudolph.'
" In the meanwhile," said Guilford, addressing
his mother, "I stood amazed and burning with
indignation ; and I really believe that if he had
not been the brother of the fair Lady Catharine,
I should have struck him to the earth for his in-
sulting words to her. But finding that my pres-
ence only made him more bitter towards her,
and fearing a collision, which might render it
necessary for me to strike him in self-defence, I
got into my boat, but taking the basket with me,
resolved to redeem my promise to bring it to
her on some more auspicious day, filled with the
shells she so greatly admired. I therefore made
sail and left them on the beach at the foot of
the castle; but soon I saw them together mak-
ingstheir'way up the path to the gate-way at the
- round tower."
" And then you made anenemy-of young Lord
Vane forever."
" It may be so. He, soon afterwards left for
Oxford, where he has remained the most of the
time until three days ago, when he returned."
"Tid you receive and take away the gold ?"
" No; I saw him stoop and gather it up after
I had sailed away. The obligation to me,
therefore, on his part, remained in full force as
at first.".
' "And hast thou seen the Lady Catharine since
then, my son ? " asked his mother, earnestly.
" Often an4 often, dearest mother; for it was
not many, days afterwards that 1I left for her
upon the beach, while, from the terrace of the
castle she was looping down and .saw me, the
basket of shells, which I soon beheld her descend
and take up. I have met her in the forest path ;
I have seen her at the castle on gala-days ; I
have encountered her on the snowy beach by
moonlight."
"You meet the Lady Catharine by noon-
light ? You say what oversteps the truth, I fear."
" Nay, mother, we have often met, and walked
and discoursed together upon the glorious works

I

THE YOUNG:

FISHERMAN. -                           15
of nature, the majesty of the sea, the mystery of
the stars, the delights of friendship, the bliss of
heaven, and upon everything goodand beauti-
ful. Ah, mother, it has been to me as if for the
three years past I had been permitted to have
companionship with an angelhof intelligence and
love. 0, how she has elevated my soul, ex-
panded my mind, enlarged my views, purified
the gross in me, and cultivated the virtues, which
knew not how to grow aright. If I am superior
to what I then was, if Iam called by the villagers
wiser and better than others, it is 'to her sweet
teaching in those stolen hours which we have
consecrated together to friendship."'
" Guilford! you fill me with amazement. I
tremble at what I hear you utter ! Can all this
be so? Yet it must be ; you could not deceive
me; and besides,I have now in my mind nu-
merous little circumstances which the revelation
on your part gives me a full explanation of.
How wonderful it all is ! You, mf son-the
son of E humble fisherman, the chosen friend
and confidant of a noble and high-born maiden,
the daughter of a lord ! It is difficult to believe
it., But it is said woman's heart, when it chooses,
looks not to title, nor rank, nor dress, but for a
kindred heart; and perhaps that, though.one is
born in the castle and the other at the foot of
the castle, the same spirit may be animating
your bosoms. But the Lady Kate is young ;
she has seen but little of the world. She is
hardly conscious of the impassable gulf that lies
between you and her -own high station. This
romance, sweet and pleasant as it has been to
you, must be broken. Her hand will be asked
by some proud noble, and she will give it to him,
and then she will be ashamed.that she has, been
so foolish as to descend to your level. Trust
me, R my dear boy, this wild dream must be
broken. Let me advise you to see her no more.
Better for your own feelings that you withdraw
now from an intimacy that-cannot be perpetual,
which is so extraordinary, than wait to be cast
off with infamy. She is now nineteen, and
what pleased her at fifteen, may disgust her
now:"
" You do not know her, my dear mother," an-
swered the young man, his generous face light-
ing up with generous warmth in defence of Lady
Kate. " She 'feels no differently towards me
now than at all other times. She will never
give her hand to any noble of them all."
" This is a bold speech. Wouldet thou bind
her tot thyself, Guilford ? If, in. the innocence

1

,


16                THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

and frankness of her nature, she has given her
regards to the humble youth to whom she feels
she owes her life, are you so ungenerous as to
take advantage of her gratitude, which, it would
seem, is ready to give herself with it, in order
that you may have the selfish pleasure of feeling
that you are loved by a high-born maiden ? "
"Mother,.you do me injustice. You do not
understand either me or the Lady Catharine.- I
have bound herby no pledges. I have dared to
exact no promises from her. I have not thought
of any happiness gr consummation of our pure
friendship, beyond the sweet bliss of the present
hour."
"You are then both rash and imprudent. You
are wasting a generous heart upon one whoan
never be more to you than she now is, and she

is wasting upon you affections which can never
find their fruition ; for the natural tendency of
such attachments as it appears exist between
you and Lady Catharine, is, a union by marriage,
and to this result the opposite ranks you occupy
in society must forever put a bar. You, there-
fore, are doing her irreparable injury, and en-
dangering the wreck of her whole life's happi-
ness, by encouraging by your continued presence
in her society, a passion which can only end in
sorrow, tears, and wretchedness to you both."
"I see-I see, dear mother ! Your words
have opened my eyes. I behold my position as
you behold it, and am conscious that it is a false
one. Mother, I will see her no more-no more
-no more

t

1

CHAPTER IV.
A MOTHE'S COUNSEL.

Tan young fisherman ventured the last word
in a tone of sadness, and with his forehead bowed
down upon his mother's hand, upon which hot
tears dropped, one after the other, like rain.-
" Thou hast spoken well; thou hast spoken
like a man. Heaven give thee strength to abide
by thy words," she said, impressively.
"No more I" he repeated, in a tone of unutter-
able anguish. ".I see that I shall destroy her
hopes, her happiness, her future, if I suffer this
mad dream of bliss to go on. But it will rend
my heart 1"
" Nay, be strong in a sense of rectitude and
manly consciousness of acting tight. Thou wilt
not hesitate to sacrifice thyself for her, if thou
lovest her."°
"Love her !"
"Then reflect that it is for her whom you
lovefyou make this sacrifice of never beholding
her more. As it is, she, can never marry in her
own rank, as becomes her; for thou hast her
heart, 'for which, nevertheless, thou canst give
her no return."
"No returnI--true, true. tI can jive her only
my heart again. I have no rank, no castles, no
place at court, no historic name, no wealth, no
power, to return to her. Mother, you are wiser
than I-far'wiser. The dream is past ; I will
see her but once more !"

"Nay, not that once."
" Can I steal from her away, dear mother 1.-.
shall I cease my interviews with her without a
word of explanation'? Shall I add to our sepa-
ration the barb of suspicion that I have done
aught that makes me ashamed to see her, or
that she has given me aught of office ? Nay,
it is becoming that we meet once more-to port
forever."
"Perhaps you are right, my son. I will trust
to your good sense that this interview be so con-
ducted as to release you both from any indiscreet
pledges of fidelity into which you may both have
unadvisedly fallen. When will you have this
interview?"
"This very night."
"The sooner the better for you both, Now,
my boy, explain to me what you began to do
when you sat down here-how your boat came
so dreadfully wrecked."
"I deserved it, I see, since we have had this
talk together. I will explain in a few words.
You know,E perhaps, that young Lord Rudolph
has returned 1 the castle within a few days'?"
"I heard so from your -cousin Anne."
"    i 9  es."she knows everythi  that
goes' &amp;.M             .
eAOtte 'aksof the Lady Cat
wa e

4


18                          THE YONNG FISHERMAN.
"How can any one do otherwise ? All love ford,' she said, smiling in that captivating way
he wh  roach her; and alas, all rnay ap- which almost made me lose my senses.  Ia
proah her hereafter but me. I alone am to be first stood on the large stone half surrounded by
exiled from her sweef presence: But hear what the water there; but the tide coming in, I was
I have to say touching the injury done to my afraid I should be caught by it, and so I ex-
boat.i While I was listlessly rocking on the changed it for the boat. I see you have some
swell, waiting for the fish to take the hook, and beautiful shells.' -
gazing upon the powers of the castle, and think-  "Yes, Lady Kate," I answered, with that
gingofLad.y Catharine, Ifell asleep and dreamed. trembling of the voice without which I never
I dreamed that I had won her hand, and that I could speak to her. "I have some here we have
led her up to the high altar in Westminster Ab- never seen. But you do not get a goodiew of
bey, where amitred archbishop united us in holy the castle so nearly under it ; let me push out
marriage. I recollect that the king was present further from the shore, so that you can embrace
and all his nobles, and-"                the whole at one view.
"aThe king !" exclaimed his mother, with sur- " She thanked me ; and getting into the boat,
'se; "you know we have no king-the judges I pushed from the beachand hoisting the sail,
have put him to deaths                    ran out a hundred fathoms, and there brought
" I know it, motlr ; but in my dream I saw  my little vessel to, and sat down andwatched
the king, or a king, and he seemed to smile on her, as with taste and skill she transferred
me, and give me honor with the proudest of his the outlines of her father's castle to a leaf
nobles; and I thought I was clad in the robes of the portfolio before her. While she drew
of an earl, and wore an earl's coronet."   we converse  Inmarked.noShe had finished her
"These dreams are nothing, my son."               y tan w  ad.  s    finised her
" But tag made a deep impression upon'me sketch, and was admiring its faithfulnets, when
when I awoke; but I must confess my heart a flaw of wind suddenly struck us from the gap
sank within me when my opening eyes fell only in the cliff, and blew so hard that I was com-
upon my coarse fishing clothes and poor fishing pelled to run before it for ten or twelve minutes.
boat, with a few lines, and hooks, apd tubs, that But after getting an offing of half a league, it de-
constituted-all my earthly wealth."        creased so puch in strengthtthat I was able to
"A fit gift to bestow upon a noble bride, lay up to it, and prepared to return to the foot
Guilfdid," said his mother, in a slightly ironical of the castle rock.  lI ad  at seing he
tone, qite unusual to her. -" Take a lesson danger was passed, and delighted:at findin
from-your dream, and let your common sense self so far out inthe channel, entreated me not
see that you are never likely to exchange your to return immediately, but sail farther out and
poor estate as a fisherman for the regal splendor let her try and catch a fishor two with me. To
you beheld in Westminster Hall."          this Iconsented, and reaching the fishing ground
"'You are right, mother. I will:try and im- I was soon engaged in teaching ther how to
press the lesson upon my heart. It was past catch the fish, which now began to take the hook
noon when I awoke, and I found that the. flood freely. While we were thus engaged, my whole
tide had swung my vessel close in under the thoughts full of the happy  crt  alou ofhe
land, and that Castle Vane was towering high presence, we were sibddenly startled by a loud
in the air above my head. As the day was still shout. Looking up, I beheld a green,gied
cloudless and unfit for fishing, I landed and yacht, of about twentyatons burthe  s on h g
roamed along the beach, and endeavoring to de- towards us at a rapid rate, haned close on her
tect traces of the small footstep which had the wind. At her helm I recognized the haughty
evening before wandered there by my side. I figure of Lord Tuolh, wseface   a dozend
also gathered every pretty shell that met my eye with fierce passion. There were  haif a dozen
for the grotto which Lady Catharine was making .other persons on bardafour of wh  iwere
in the garden of the castle. In this pleasurable crew.  e steered straight for me, an  I saw
occupation the afternoon wore away, and at that his intention was to sink m'e. He called
length I ruined to myboat. But imagine my me by all manner of opprobiousepithets as he
joy whenribeheld the Lady Catharine seated in came near, and I perceived that he wa bent on
it, eaggd in sketch           d rock!   equallyd'stroying. both Lady Catharine and
"I saw yo                   ilrty, Guil- myself. My sails were brie p, adIhdn

time to get out of the way; but seeing he was
aiming td strike me amidships, I succeeded with
an oar in turning the bow of my boat so as to
receive the shock there. The moment of-collis-
ion, two of the crew, by his previous order,
sprang on board, and taking the Lady Catharine
up, regained the yacht with her. The shock
drove the bows of my boat in, and she began to
fill. The yacht, .recoiling from' the contact,
glided past across the bows, and as Lord Vane
saw me making efforts to keep my boat from
going down, he laughed like a fiend, and. then
deliberately aiming a short' gun at me, dis-
charged it. I should have been killed by the ball
if I had not thrown myself upon my face.
[sEE ENGRAVING.]
" The next moment the yacht was far to lee-
ward, and I was left alone with my sinking boat !
What a moment of shame, disappointment, and
bitterness was that to me ! What an hour of
happiness, had been suddenly interrupted ! I
now turned my whole attention 1o saving' my
boat and my life. - But my ears were Tended by
the cries of Lady Kate to her brother, not to let
me perish. But I could hear his scornful laugh
only in reply.
"By great exertions,,my dear mother, I
reached the cove as you saw; but if I had been
half a mile further ont, I should certainly have
been lost. Now, mother, you know all. I have
unfolded to you the secret of my life. You are
my only confidant. Perhaps I have done wrong
in encouraging this sweet friendship on the part
of Lady Kate. But should I dash the cup of
bliss to the ground?  I was not' wise enougl'to
know that it was charged with sorrow to us
.* both. I can now look on all with your eyes. I
see that I have been in the wrong, and that I
have been inflicting a positive injury upon her
whom I would die .to serve. I see it-I see it
all! I cannot so much blame Lord Vane fol
wishing to break off a friendship that was laden
with so much future evil.",
"I am glad to ,see you take this view of it,
Guilford. It shows me that you are still as good
and generous and just as I have always believed
you to be. No doubt that Lady Catharine loves
you; but do you think-now hear me put the
question with calmness -do you think she would
-  listen to you with anything less than with sur-,
prise and scorn, if you proposed seriously for her
hand ?"
Guilford shook his head, but made no reply.
"I fear that such a proposal from you would

open her eyes, which seem to have been strangely
blinded, and lead her to see the true position in
which you stood to each other. It would break
the spell effectually. Doubtless she, as well as
yourself, has never asked of her heart and judg-
ment where all this would end."
"I will see her once more, and then we part
forever-unless-" Here a certain proud light
shone in his fine eyes, and he rose to his feet.
" Unless what, Guilford ?" asked hi's mother,
with anxiety, fearing all his resolutions were
to be turned into thin air.     -
"Unless I can render myself worthy of her,
mother !"
" Worthy of her! Indeed, so far as truth and
honor and manly domeliness are concerned, you
are worthy the love of any maiden, .methinks,
Guilford ; but these count nought in the sum of
qualifications which he who would wed a lord's
daughter must bring to his aid."
"I may yet make myself worthy of her, moth-
er. In the books of history which she has loaned
me, and which we have read together, are ac-
counts of lowly-born, youths having risen to
thrones, and to wed kings' daughters. Nothing
is impossible to love and ambition !"
.", That was in the days of Romaunt, long
ago, my boy. Such things do not happen now."
' o one knows. What is enacting now?-
who is President of England, and who sits in
the seat of the long line of descended kings ? Is
it not Oliver Cromwell, who rose from the ranks
of the people? Even Lord Rudolph Vane must
lift his cap to this man of humble origin."
" Trueimy son, the people have the power.'
"Yes, and the nobles hold their castles and
their coronets at the will of the Lord Protector.
Because I am a fisherman now, shall I of neces-
sity always he one? Thanks to the teachings
of the Lady Catharine, I have knowledge and
learning, and know how to hold such place as
my good fortune may perchance elevate' me to.
From this day I doff the fisher's jacket, and go
and offer my services to the admiral of the fleet,
now in the Thames and preparing to sail against
the Dutch. There all grades are 'open to talent
and aspiration; and with the star of Lady Kate's
love shining ever above the horizon of my future,
I shall yet win some place worthy of her!"
" Ah, my son, you do mot reflect that a suc-
cessful officer under Cromwell's power would be
an unsuccesgful wooer for the band of a daugh-
ter of so proud and royal a noble as Lord Vane.
Dost thou forget how these nobles hate the Pro.
tector ?"

I'

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

.i


4

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

" True, true, I should only defeat my aim," I then suffered heir to embrace him, to breathe a
he answered, gloomily, as the sunshine of hope word or two of consolation into his heavy heart,
faded away into the shadows of his darkening and then entered the house.
destiny ; " and what is more true, I am in heart  It was already twilight, for the sun had gone
a king's subject. I have been taught by you and down behind the blue Hampshire hills while
my'father to honor the king, and to look upon they sat in the green porch, holding the conver-
Cromwell as a usurper. Nothing but the hope sation we have above recorded.
-now dashed to the ground-of winning Lady   In a few moments he came forth, and was
Kate through honors gained under the Protec- passing out of the gate.
tor'sfag, would have suggested to me the idea  " Leave no room, Guilford, for a second inter-
of offering myself to him. Myheart is with the view," whispered his mother, impressively.
exiled and hunted young King Charles ; but to  " It shall be the last," he answered, with deep
share his fallen fortunes I should be no nearer emotion modulating the sounds of his voice.
my ambitious hopes. Mother, advise me ;-I   At the gate he met a fair young girl of
know not what to do.. I can never forget Lady eighteen, clad in a neat chintz gown, and coarse
Catharine. I must love her while life endures; but becoming straw hat.
and while I live, it must be with the faint, far-off "Good even, cousin Anne," he said, as he
hope that kind fate will one day smile upon my passed her.
love, and with the sunshine of joy dissipate all  " Good even, Guilford," she responded.
the clouds that now hang around me."       "Aunt, what makes, Guilford so sad ?" she
" My advice is, my boy, to remain where you asked, looking after him.
are, and try and forget the Lady Catharine, as  " He has a heavy sorrow at heart, child," an-
much so as if she were dead and buried."  swered the mother, in a tone of sympathy;-
"Be it so ; I will try," answered Guilford, in " Heaven hold him strong under it 1"
tones scarcely audible to Jiis mother's ears. He

CHAPTER V.

COUSIN ANNE GREY-A SURPRISE.

Tun maiden who betrayed this interest in
the young man was Anne Grey, his cousin, and
the adopted child of her aunt, his mother. She
was a beautiful girl of eighteen, with dark brows
and eyes, and handsome cheeks and lips, and a
neat figure, buoyant with the elasticity of health.
She had daily employment at the castle by Lady
Vane, who gave occupation to several maidens
of humble degree in the art of embroidery, a
pursuit then much in vogue with the high-bern
dances of England.
Evpry morning for two years past, Anne had
gone to the castle, to pass the day in the .ldrge
hall or working-room, where the lady of the
castle, seated in the midst of her half-score of
maidens, either taught them difficult figures in
the pattern by her own example, or passed from
one to the other, giving directions.
" Have you completed that battle-piece of
Hastings's field yet ?" asked dame Graham of
Anne, as the latter seated herself, by the frugal
supper prepared for her and Guilford, but which
the latter had left untouched.
"Not yet, aunt; we expect to complete it by
June. We have been already twenty-one months
upon it. We had to wait three weeks for the
arrival of the young lord before we could finish,
his figure."-
2

"What, does my young lord figure in the
tapestry ?"
" Yes, as one of the king's youthful knights.
He has taken a' good many sittings, and. the
portrait is to the life ; but Lady Vane drawsaud
works in the features herself, while we only
work the surtout and armor."
".What think you of my young lord ?"
"Something bold and free, methinks.'
" So I fancied, if he be like other nobles of his
degree. I hope, child, he hath not noticed
thee."
" I like not his looks at all, aunt. He hath
twice spoken to me in a manner that has made
my cheek burn. I would gladly find some ex-
cuse not to go up to the castle until he shall be
gone back to London."
" Tell not thy cousin Guilford of this."
"Nay, he would care little. He careth-not for
me," she answered, changing color.
" Ah, and is it this way blows the wind, my
child ?"
" Which wayj aunt ?"
"I see thou lovest Guilford more than thou.
shouldst as a relative."
"I did not say so, aunt. Yet who can help
liking him ! Does not every one' like him I
Nhy, I have tielard the fair Lady Cathar.ne

20

f,  -..

k  ;r r,,'r ,
+, t  h
:7 t .


22

THE YOVNG FISHE1lMAK

speak of him to me with passing commendation, and dress of dame Graham, and lastly, but more
But Guilford never thinks of me or any other lingeringly, the pretty countenance of Anne
maiden."                                  Grey, who sat aloof in the window, trying to
"And how like you Lady Catharine ?"     withdraw as much from close observation as she
" She. is fair and good as an angel. We all could,
love her. 'She is nothing like Lord Rudolph,  " So, dame, thou seemest to subsist by the
her brother; and methinks he is something harsh travail of fishing ? Verily, It is a good trade,
towards her betimes, as becometh not a brother." and thou shouldst thrive. This comely maiden
So I hear."                            is thy daughter I do peradventure ?"  .
"And what aileth Guilford to-night ?"     This was spoken by Strait-gate.
" He is ill at ease. I warrant me he'll be bet-  " My niece, your worship."
ter and wiser- to-morrow. But here eces in  " Come hither, maid, and let me see if thou
some neighbor. See who it is."            art well-favored," said Broad-way. "They do
Anne rose up, and advancing to the door, say that much eating of fish doth improve te
started back with a cry of surprise, as she be- complexion."-
held stride in two of Cromwell's soldiers, armed But Anne, as soon as she saw that she was
with harquebus and broad-sword, and wearing particularly noticed, quickly tripped out of the
the well-known badge, of the parliamentary cottage,
army.- Instantly dame Graham, with that in-  " Verily and yea, the maiden hath fled. She
stinctive sense of propriety and self-possession hath no beed to fear the soldiers of the Lord and
which never forsook her, though she trembled of Gideon. We war against kings, and not
in her inmost soul at beholding the shadows of against women."
these two men crossing her threshold, advanced  " And how fares my Lord Cromwell, gentle-
and said civilly:                         men ?"           -
" Enter, friends, and refresh yourselves. We  "Marry come up ! how should he but do well
were just at supper. If you will take seats, you who is next to King David in power, and Solo-
shall cheerfully have whatever our poor larder mon in wisdom? Nevertheless, thou showest
can furnish."                             thy reverence for him, good dame, by asking.
The soldiers sat down without ceremony, as if Where is thy husband"" 
they felt perfectly at home and were accustomed "Dead, this seven years, sirs.",
to the civility which they met with. One of them " Hast thou no man about ?" asked Broad'
was a tall, thin, cadaverous man, with dark, an- way, cocking his half-shut eye at the oars  and
gular brows, sallow cheeks, and straight, black sails that stood in the corner.
hair for a beard, while that upon his head was  "I have a son, a young 'man of four-and
cropped ort like that of a modern convict. He twenty.",
was armed in a formidable manner, and was   " Where is he, dame ?"
altogether a formidable-looking person.--a sort  "He has gone forth on some affairs of is
of cross between a Puritan saint and arobber of own."
the Rhine. His comrade was shorter by the   "Very well; when he comes back we-
head, girded full twenty inches more by the doubtless see him-for, by your leave, we will
waist, had a bald, bullet-head, and no beard. His quarter with you a few days!'
eyes were small and twinkling, and the corners  "Such poor comforts as my humble roof
of his mouth, which naturally were inclined to affords are at your service' answered the dame,
turn laughingly upwards, were drawn down in a thankful that there were but two of them when
sanetimonious curve, that each moment required there might have been more.
his attention to keep so. The names of these  After the men had well eaten, and quaffed
two worthies were respectively "Strait-gate" strong waters from well-filled flasks which they
and "Broad-way."    The first five minutes carried at their belts, they walked forth, saying
Strait-gate occupied in saying a long grace, to they would ere long be back to stay for the
which Broad-way responded an unctuous amen. night. They had not been five minutes de.
They then fell to work upon the fish and ashes parted, when a man entered with the familiar
ckes before them; and having taken off the air of a village gossip. He was dressed in a
edge of their appetite, they began to use their patched and torn doublet, hose down at the leg,
eyes now in scanning the room, then the face a coarse tunic, and slouched hat. Moreover,

/t

11

TI1E YOUNG'

V        -

his fiery-red nose showed that he was much given'
to ale-house potations,
"Ah, dame, how be it all wi' ye ? How is the
pretty lass Annie  Where is Master Guilford?
Strange news come to town. Hope you haven't
heard of it first. Stirring times these--stirring,
piping-hot times ! Thank the Lord I gas born
in=these-stirring times !"
With this, the new-comer rubbed his palms
together, and spoke with great volubility, like a
man over-earnest to be the first to turn the fasset
of a barrel of news.
"Why, what hath happened, Master Digby?"
asked the dane.
"Then you've not heard it? Good !-you'll
soon know, for they'll be upon you. Why a
whole company o' parliamentary soldiers march-
ed down into the port just .at sunset, and have
stacked their arms at the Whale and Gudgeon.
There they are, drinking and singing psalms,
and looking as warlike as Gog and Magog. 0,
it's terrible to see their long broadswords and
open-mouthed sharquebuses, at the end of every
one of-which hangs -a true man's life 1"
"- We've had two of them here already," said
the dae
"What I-you 4&amp;dft'say they have been here.?"
"There is where they hive eaten but ten min-
utes agone. They siythey are going to quarter
here."
"Dear, bless us, what stirring times'! But
did they tell you what they came here=for ? 'I
warrant me I have that piece of news for yots
yet"
"We did not ask them, and I did not care to
be to inquisitive!"
"JTust like you.. Well, I know. Listen, Miss
Anne. , The king's son,. Prince Charles, has
made a break from some place where they had
him penned in, away off in the Scot's country,'
4-north; and, the Protector's' got certain news
he's trying to fly across theseas. So, you un-
derstand, he has sent-vessels tb'every port-where
he could, to keep watch and to examine every
boat that puts off; and heieron the south, of
England, he has sent troops t6 guard the coast,
and ,especially every place where there are fish-'
ing;boats.; Sn at this -moment there is not a
chance for, the prince- to' get out of England
without being seen and taken. All along the
toa'Crdmwdl's soldieis:are quartered, and are
to keep strict watch. All this I-learned from
one fthe troop, who udd to be an old-crony of
mine when the old king was ali'ie."

TISHERMAN-                              24
"Poor Prince Charles !" replied the fisher-
man's widow; "he is, I fear, destined to fall
into the hands of his enemies."
" We must. speak low when we mention his
name, dame," answered 'Digby. - "But gpod-
night !-I must go, for I've got.to tell the news
to a good many. Stirring times--stirring times!
Good night, fair Miss Anne !"
With these words, the, village news-bearer
hastened from the cottage.
" I do really hope they will have their labor
for their paiis," said Anne. "Poor Prince
Charles has been hunted till he has no place left
to hide his head 1"
"It is to be hoped he may escape."
"Aunt, there is some one looking in upon us
at the back window !" suddenly exclaimed
Anne.
The dame turned her head, and as she did so,
the window was raised, and a man stepped into
the room. His appearance- struck them with
surprise and curiosity, He wore a plain peas-
ant's dress, soiled' and travel-worn, an old fhr-
cap, that covered his eyes and 'early concealed
his features, which were pale and well-shape.e
There was an air bf'superiority about hlhn that
led dame Graham to suspect that he was seie
one of the nobles-id disguise, Who-wee lurking
about England 'in'considerable ntimb ri, with
prices set upon their heads. He se ingdOready
to sink with fatigue, as, supporting hiknmself on
the edge of the table, he said faintly, but in a
voice of singular courtesy:
"You are a wonkn-you are compassionate-
give -m  a fed hor-s' shelter. I am pured,
and throw myself on your mercy!"
" Come, follow me," quietly said the dage,
speaking with-decision and promptness. "Anne,
place that food in his hands."-
A' plate of' provisions from the table was
handed to him by the maitien, and he followed
dame Graham: out ' of the room like one aecus-
tomed to ask--and find shelter in this 'manner.
There was a ladder in the adjoining apartment
which led to a loft.
'Ascend 'this and you will find a bed and
security. 'Make io oise.' As soon as tny soy
comes, we will seek anmore secure place of shel-
ter. There are two of'the parliamentary soldiers
quartered in' the house,'but they shell not aus
pect'your presence. Who you are- ask ,ioft -'I
only wish that it were the prince, save that -X
should be ed to 'see any piie *  r

'4


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

He pressed her hand gratefully, and ascended
the ladder, which, at her direction, he drew up
after him. He then closed the opening, so that
no sign of the trap was apparent from below.
She then returned to Anne, whom she impressed
with the importance of keeping the secret of the
presence of the fugitive from every one.
" Have you any idea who it is, aunt ?"
"I have my guess. It is either the prince
himself, or one of his friends."

" 0, that it were the prince, and we could get
him safe across the channel !" exclaimed the
beautiful girl, with warmth.
" This is sooner said than executed. I sin-
cerely pray that it may not be thelPrince Charles,.
for I do not see how we could protect hm..
These soldiers will doubtless pry into every nook
and cornet of the house. But Guilford will soon.
be in, when I will consult with him.".

CHAPTER VI.
A CONCEALED GUEST.
Tun 'good dame then went to work to pre- me.hither. Are you confident that I can be cou-
pare some drink of ale and French brandy, which cealed here ?"
latter article the fishermen on the south coast, "At least till my cousin Guilford can think of
fromt i.eakn1tess to France, had always cheaply some other place; and he will soon be in."
and in puple quantities in their households.  "And who is thy cousin Guilford ?"
Having made the potation hot, and seasoned it  "The son of my aunt; and though but a fish-
welwth pieces , she sent Anne with it to give erman's son, and himself a fisherman, he is a'
it theirconcealed guest, while she herself re- true friend to the prince, and prays for his safety,
mailed to watch the entrance to the cottage as well as do I and my aunt'
that no one might come in unobserved. Anne,  " Thanks, thanks, maiden !  This beverage
on entering-the back apartment of the hut, care- will revive me and' make me forget my day's
fully locked .and bolted the door between, and fatigues."
then, drawing 'a rough table beneath. the trap,  "Quick, sir cavalier, shut the trap down!--I
she got upon it and knocked lightly with the hear voices."
end eta broom upon the ceiling above her head.  The stranger immediately closed the boards,
"Sir cavalier 1" -she said softly.      and leaping to the floor from the table, the
"What, maiden ?" asked the voice of the con- maiden removed it against the wall,.and un-
cealed fugitive, speaking through a crevice in bolting the door, returned to 'the front room.
the floor.                               Voices of men in loud talk were still heard out-
S" apennd take this warm negus which my side.
au st l      ared for thee. We know you    " Didst give it to him?" asked her aunt, in an
us      ~ thirst and fatigue; for we have under-tone.
-hed of the  at hardships the friends of Prince  " Yes, aunt, and 'lie was so grateful, and so
Charles have gone through to keep from being civilspoken; andhishand, as he reached it down,
b    l erved ,                         was as fair as a born lady's."
The trap was carefully lifted and the arm of , "Without doubt'; these court cavaliers do
the wanderer was thrust down for the fiago,n nought of work, being rich, but aid the king
which the maiden reached up to him. As he with their heads, in council. How fortunate
too i.lhe apped her hand with his fingers, in it was he did not come in when thesoldiers were
token of his gratitude, and said, in a voice which here. "
had become habitually subdued to the lowest  " Perhaps .he was watching outside the win-
d ece         'dow till they were away."
,h  ]    and. blessings upon thee, and thy  "But it was bold in him to come in when
.good autit, maiden!t  Heaven surely directed they had so lately left."

VIMl "YOUtNG FISHEItMAN.

2A4

'Poor gentleman, aunt ! Perhaps he had no
other chance for safety. I have heard a story
of a hunted deer'after being pressed from every
covert, at length fly for shelter beneath the horse
of the hunter. But.here come the men."
"Now, Anne, let not our looks or manner or
words betray to these soldiers that we have a
secret to keep."'
While the goodwoman was giving this piece
of caution to her neice, the two parliamentary
troopers came in, making noise enough with
their heavy boots and jingling swords, for half a
score of modern dragoons.
"Well, mistress, we have been taking a survey
of thy premises around, walking about thereof,
-as the Israelites circumvented the walls .of
Jericho; but verily, not seven times, 'or we had
no desire that thy walls should fall down, con-
sidering that we look for'them to give us shelter
to-night. Here, maiden, take the sword of the
Lord and of Gideon !"
With this, Broad-way, who had seated his un-
wieldly form upon a bench by the table, un-
buckled his huge sword and handed it to Anne,
who tookit, though it required no little strength
to lift it, with its iron scabbard, and hung it
upon a wooden peg near the window.
".And Jake thou this fiery sword, lass, and put
it safely on yonder beckets," said Strait-gate,
with a_ solemn, nasal drawl. " Phuf !-verily,
brother Broad-way, I smell the savor of strong
waters, ,spiced with fragrance as the incense of
Aaron, that flowed down his garment skirts
unto-'
"Yea, the flavor thereof ascendeth to my nos-
trils, like the odors of the lily of the valley of
many colors. -Dame, whence ariseth this de-
lectable odor .' asked Broad-way, snuffingthe
air of the room about him like a bill of Ba-
shan ; while Strait-gate, erect and thin-visaged,
in his hair, rolled his eyes on all sides to dis-
cover whence came the fragrance which had so
captivated their virtue.
bIt is but the fumes of a negus which I have
been making. My son will be in soon, and as
the night is s a ething chilly, and as he:has
gone out without his supper, I would give him
some refresh nent when he'comes in.'?
-"Vferily, thou art a mother in Israel," an-
swered Bi ad-way. " Suppose 'thou' regardest
meas thy son in Jacob and thy posterity in
Abraham, and give me of the negus even, verily,
as dacobgave to Esau of the pottage when he
was a-hungry."

Dame Gral am rose at once, and taking from
a small cupboard an earthen mug, which bek.
about a quart, she poured from it into two cups
all that she had reserved for Guilford'of what
she had made 'for the concealed guest,
The two soldiers had no sooner inhaled and
tasted the potation, than they manifested their
approbation of her skill in concocting agreeable
potations.
"Verily," said Strait-gate, "this 'is, richer
than the wines of Judea and the dew of the little
hills of Hermon."
" Yea, verily, it is the dew of Lebanon;" an-
swered Broad-way, with unction.
"The good dame must fill up the quart meas-
ure once more ; for verily, with such strength as
this giveth to the' arm'of a servant of the Lord,
we shall overthrow our' enemies and discomfit
them 1"
" Verily, brother Strait-gate, verily, till not a
dry bone standeth in the valleyof Ajalon. Come
hither, maiden, for thou art fair andcomely to
look upon-come hither and sit upon my knee,
that I may discourse to thee touching the 'wile
of the devil and the temptations of this'worlo di
vanities."
"Nay, brother, the maiden' will do better, to
sit where she is ; for thou-shouldst not  tit 1y-
self in the way of evil, seeking to, sa 'e  s
from perdition."'-'"s a,:r
"Anne," said the good dame, "come hither
and take this pail and go to the spring aind fill
it with water, that I may inalie' more negus four
these sons of Jacob."
Anne very willingly complied, and was not- a
little gratified when her aunt whispered to her
as she gave her the bucket, "Remain without
until thy cousin returns. These men wll' be
rude to thee in theit 'A'i ' there is' water
enough in the house without that thou art sent
for."                       -       ; z
"But they will be rude to' thee.
"No, I fear them not; child.' Kee3iru awaY
from them all thou canst."
" Marry, come up, maiden!", said Broad-way',
as she passed him, "stay and let one give thee a
holy kiss g"
"Yea, 'a kiss 'of' peace, verily, maiden I"
chimed inStrait-gate, with a hypocritical twang
through his nose. "P1ost thou not re&amp;it'rdbe
the Scripture records that Isaac kissed Rebeced'
Come hither, and let us kissthee and talk to thee
gravely of the vanity o? youth and the erils l
comeliness.' 7'

A (7

i

1
I,


THE YOUNG. FISHERMAN.

But Anne, blushing and terrified, bounded
past the pious covenanters and gained the out-
side of the door. But she fled from thearms of
* the men of war to fall into the arms of a fine.
looking youth of her own station, who was in
the act of knocking for admission as she opened
the door.
" Why, Robin !" she exclaimed, as she with-
drew her form from his arms, which had inclosed
her almost of necessity, so completely she came
into them.
"And you, Anne'! Whither with such haste?
0, I see, you have the bucket. Let me fetch
the water for thee."
"Nay, speak low, and come right away from
the door. If you must talk, talk at the spring.:
There are two of those dreadful troopers in the
house."
" What, Cromwell's brigands ?" repeated the
young fellow, in tones that rung like a Damas-
cus blade.
"Hush I" she cried, pressing her small hand
afint his mouth to stop his words. "If you
are overheard you are lost.  Come with me
quick, and I will tell you all that has happened."
He took the pail from her, and followed her
lightstep across a stile and into a-remote corner
of pmddock, where,,beneath a clump of alders,
Subled a sparkling spring, with an abundance
of water, which, overrunning, sought its way in
p booklet to the sea, five hundred yards off.
"You seem disturbed, .Anne.   Have these
troopers been insolent ?" demanded the young
man, who was plainly of a fiery temper, and hack
a profound regard for the maiden.
"Mien did you ever hear "of these soldiers
being beneath a roof that they were not inso-
e   eshrew me ! they would have kissed me
if Would have suffered it of their ugly, great,
l airy mouths 3"
I will kill them both !"
"Nay, Robin, that would be to the death of
three men; for assuredly thou wouldst be the
third. They did not kiss me,however, for I ran
away.",
" The hounds ! To presume to think of what
I hardly dare dream of--pressing thysweet lips!"
"Nay, Robin, don't talk of love now. You
may stay here and keep me company till Guil-
ord comes home, if you will be sure to behave
yourself.'
" Ah, Anne, you are ever so cruel to me,
Why do I woo and sue, and woo in vain.'? said
the young man, seating himself by her side on

the stone bench that half encircled the spring.
" Do not compel me to sigh for you, and love
you, and live only with your thought, while, you
treat me so disdainfully."
"I love you, Robin; but I do not love you yet
well enough to be your wife. If I ever marry
any one but-it shall be your."
"But who ? whose name fills the space you
only breathed ?"
" Do you not guess ?" asked the ingenuous
girl.
"I can think of no one but Guilford."
"You are right. It is Guilford who alone
keeps me from loving you as you. ought to, be
loved. I have nothing against you; I am grate-
ful for selecting me out of all the maidens of the
hamlet,; but I love Guilford."
" Only as a cousin."
"I wish it were only as a cousin. I fear I
love him with all my heart."
" Happy Guilford ! He is my best friend-he
destroys my happiness. Does he love thee ?
But why do I ask the question?  Who can help
loving thee, Anne, that knows thee ?"
"Frankly, then, I- fear he loves me only as a
cousin, and has no suspicion of my attachment
for him. That makes me wretched. ,1 fear his
heartis pre.engaged."
"Would that it were !"
" It would then break the dream of my life,
and I should perhaps awake, Robin, to the reali-
ties of thy love. You see I am frank andppen-
hearted with you. Your long attachment fq r,
me demands frankness and the absence': of all
mystery."
"You are goodness itself ! If, then, Guilford
should be discovered to have given his heart to
another, may2I then hope, dearest Anne ?",
" Yes ; for thete is no one next to him I think
so highly of as you."
This undisguised expression of her feelings
filled the young man with joy. He pressed ;er
hand to his lips with devotion and ardoreand
she could see that his.features were animate with
hope and joy.
As they sat by the spring they heard the voices
of the two tipsy troopers singing through their
noses a long-winded psalm, the sounds of which
reaching the ears 7of other soldiers, q rteed
about in other huts, inspired them also with
devotional psalmody, and soon the whole iage
was 'roaring with a confused noise of sgngb,
which came louder from the village inn th
from any other quarter.

/',

WHEN Guilford left the threshold of the cot-
tage to take his way towards Castle yane, in
order to obtain a final interview with the'beauti-
ful and high-born maiden who had given him
the preference of her -pure affections, he walked
for some minutes at the quick, impetuous step
which his agitated feelings prompted. But after
'losing sight of the gate of 'the hut, and he had
come upon the white sandeach, on which the
moonbeams shone like silver, and upon the hard,
marble-like floor of which the sparkling waves
unrolled themselves like countless blue' scrolls
edged with pearl, the sweet influences of the
Scene carried quiet and comparative serenity to
his soul. Gradually his footsteps slackened, and
at length he came to a full stop and looked off
and upward.
" Why should I let a storm stage in my bosom
hen illgiature is so peaceful? The blue skies
are soft and fair and the stars sparkle in them
like  celestial- eyes, looking peace and jor on
earth, while the heavens of my soul are clouded,
andnot a star of hope is glimmering in their
wide horizon. Why," he mused-" why should
I let mnere feelings torture ne so that I-am more
like one bereft of reason at the idea of losing
ady- Catharine, than a sane man ? Let me
borrow peace and calmness from the ocean, the
ky, the stars, the whole repose of nature. I will

be calm ! I will reflect hpon all this which has
come upon me, with firmness and honesty of
conviction. My mother is right ; . I am doing
the Lady Catharine wrong by thus holding her
affections. My-mother is right; she cap never
look upon me as her husbftnd. -She is infatuated.
We have both been blind. I will be the first to
break the spell. She will respect me the better
for it. I will act as becomes a man of honor.
She shall never have reason to despise me.
But," he added, as he paced slowly along the
glittering beach, and mechanically picked up a
shining shell for her, "how shall I obtain an
interview with her without encountering her
brother ? Not that I fear him; but my hand
would shrink from a contact with one so nearly
related to her. No doubt he would not hesitate
to slay me on the first-sight, andtherefore did I
bring weapons with me ; but I shall use them
only in self-defence."          -
He now proceeded along the'beach for two
hundred yards further, when he came to a jutting
part of the cliff, on which the castle stood, which,
advancing across the beach some yards into the
water, stopped further progress on foot; but on
the other side of this projecting wall of the
precipice, the' beach was continued, broad and
white as before, for more than a league, and was
the common way taken by the inhabitants along

CHAPTER VII.
A
A FUGITIVE' a ESCAPE.

A

,r     k 1
i

4


28                THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

the coast from one hamlet to the other. But as
the projecting clift would have broken off all
communication between the two parts of this
beach pathway, two small boats had been im-
memorially kept there, one on one side and the
other on the opposite side, for those who passed
that way to row themselves round the spur of
-the rock.
As the path by which Guilford usually visited
the garden of the castle lay around the cliff, he
now approached the little skiff;which had painted
on its stern, " Castle Vane," it being the property
of Lord Vane, he suddenly heard a loud shout-
ing of numerous voices in the direction of the
hamlet in his rear, and one or two discharges of
harquebuses. 'The voices continued ' to ad-
vance, and looking back with surprise, and won-
dering at the cause, he saw far distant a single
man running along the beach at his. fleetest
speed. Iis dark form was distinctly relieved
against the white, moonlit sand. The next mo-
ment, not a hundred and fifty yards behind him,
came two others, who seemed in hot pursuit.
Guilford had already placed his foot in the boat,
and held the oar in his hand ; but he re-
mained motionless, watching the advance of the
fugitive, who each moment was gained 'upon
by his pursuers. He now began to feel an inter-
est in him, as every generous mind will instantly
take part with the weakest; and this interest was
-     Aft lessened whest the pursuers increased to seven
iAn,'who shouted:
"'The sword of the Lord and of Gideon !
Death to the son of Anak.! Slay the son of
Beliall",
*"They are covenanters in chase of a loyalist,"
said Guilford, biting his lip. 1" If he reaches
here in good time, I will agree to save him at all
risks."
At this moment he saw the fugitive stop, as
his nearest pursuer was not twenty yards off,
turn round, qnd deliberately fire at- him. The
man fell, and the fugitive once more bounded on
his way. This bold and cool act elevated him
not a little in the estimation of so brave a spirit
as that of Guilford, and he-watched the approach
of the hunted loyalist, as he supposed him to be,
with the deepest solicitude. A second pursuer
coming too near, shared the fate of 'the first;
but a horsetrooper coming at spur-speed on the
beach, gained so rapidly on him, that Guilford
felt, that unless the man had another shot left,
he would be taken. That he had not, Guilford
saw very clearly by the almost superhuman

efforts now made by the man to escape from the
horseman.
"I have a pistol !" cried Guilford, with admi-
ration. " Teese troopers are our natural foes.
Shall I stand here and see a brave man taken,
and perhaps slain before my face ? It may be
the prince himself for aught I know. I will
give him all the aid I can, whosoever he be !"
He then pushed the skiff a little out from the
beach, and placed the oars so that they could
be used instantly, and then hastened to meet the
fugitive, who ran heavily, as if he had nearly lost
his wind.
"Courage, my 'friend !" shouted Guilford.
"I have a shot for the trooper ! Run a little
further, and there is a boat to escape in."-
The sound of the encouraging voice of the
young fisherman seemed to; give new spirits to
the pursued stranger, who waved his hand, and
came forward at a more vigorous pace. the
horseman also increased his speed, and when
the fugiive had got within twenty fathoms of the
boat, the trooper was alongside of him, with his
broad claynore sweeping around above his head,
ready to descend upon the neck of the royalist,
Guilford was not near enough to aid in warding
off the blow, which the fugitive could not do,
having, as Guilford perceived, no sword, and
but one hand ; and the young fisherman brought
his huge pistol to bear upon the broad chest of
the trooper, and fired it. The man received the
ball in his heart, and tumbled from his horse
upon the beach, with the sword which he held
aloft ready to aim the blow, lying broken under
him in the sand.
" Gallantly done, young man !" cried the fugi-
tive. "You have saved my life."   And -he
pressed Guilford's hand to his bosom.
" We have not a moment to lose, my lord,"
said Guilford. " Quickly, into the boat !"
"I need no urging, my brave fellow," an-
swered the stranger, stepping into the boat,
which Guilford in a few seconds rowed out
from the land and around - the rock, behind
which he disappeared as two more horsemen
came up to the fallen body of their companion.
One of, them, with reckless hardihood, spurred -
his hore into the sea, and compelled him to
swim out, as if his rider were resolved to let no
obstacles prevent him from capturing the fugitive.
But the weight of the man, who was gigantic in
size, and the terror of the animal, after a short
distance brought on a terrible struggle between'
life and death ; and in vain attempting to ex.

tricate himself from the saddle and stirrups, the
man sunk with his forse and disappeared for-
ever.
At this tragical result the other troopers
paused ori the shore, and as the cliffpresented
an insurmountable barrier to their further pro-
gress, the escape of the fugitive was effectually'
secured.
"They cannot come after us here," said Guil-
ford, as he drove the boat against the beach
beyond the rock.
"And to what brave young man am I in-
debted for my safety ?" askedthe stranger, who
pressed the hand of the young fisherman with
strong emotion.
"I am but a fisherman, my lord, who lives in
the hamlet from which you came, and by good
fortune having an errand this way, was enabled
to afford you the assistance I havedone."
" And good aid it was, and gallantly well len
to me ; for you have as steady a hand and as
true an eye with a pistolet as any king's cava-
lier of the guards. What is thy name ?-for I
would befriend thee, if some day I have it in my
power."
" Guilford Graham, sir cavalier," answered
Guilford, who could see by the dress and bear-
ing of the stranger that he svs a man of very
different stamp from the Roundheads. As the
moonlight shone full upon him, he could see
that he was a well-made man, of thirty-seven or
eight years, with long, black locks, floating to his
neck, his air proud, and his bearing bold and
resolute. But his curiosty was awakened to
know how he, had lost his right hand. This
curiosity was perhaps apparent in his looks, for
the stranger said : ,                    *
" I suppose you would like to know who I
am I You ought to know; but'in these days it
is not safe alwaysfor men to carry their appella-
tions posted on their'breast-ylates. You say we
are safe here. It may be that you are ; but as
for me, I am not safe on any foot of England's
soil on the Sussex coast. Look you ! Hast thou
seen any sail in the offing towards the syn-
down 1"-
" Methinks, my lord-"  .
"Nay, how dost thou know me ?" -
"I do not, my lord. I did give thee but the
chance title of respect."
" Drop, it, lest it be not over safe. Call me
captain, and thou wilt have a handle to my name.
What didst thou see ?"
"Far in the south and west I thought I saw

the upper sails of a, brigantine, standing .coast-
wise ; but I was too much taken up with my
own affairs just then to give it or its course es-
pecial heed." -
" You shall know enough of me, young man,
to know that I am expecting a vessel in this
night from the channel to take me off. Pull out
a bit from the shore, if thy own business be not
too pressing, and let me look about. I shall feel
more secure with an acre or two of broad sea-
water lying between me and the main. Any
moment these troopers may circumvent us by
the castle road and pounce upon us."
" That is trie. I will row out wfih you a mile
or two, and if you see nothing of the-craft you
look for, captain, I will land you on such safe
part of the coast as you-may name, if it be not
so far off that I cannot return hither by mid-
night."
"An affair of love thou hast on thy hands, I'll
be sworn for you," answered the captain, laugh-
ing ; " but I will not keep thee long. If I see
nothing of the boat I look for in an hour, I will
put back with you, and trust to you to find-me a
hiding place for another day."
Guilford was so captivated by a certain franks
chivalrous manner of the stranger, and he seemed
to place such unsuspecting confidence in .hlm,
that he resolved, even if it should defer his inter-
view with: Lady Catharine to another night, to
give this night to securing the safety of ; his'new
friend. That he was some flying cavalier he'
was well convinced in his own mind; and he ran
over in his memory the names of several of the
most distinguished of whom he had heard as
having been banished, or against whom sentence
had been declared, with the probability that this
stranger might be one of-them.
" I will go out with you, sir," he answered,
" cheerfully ; and if you do not see your vessel,
and your head is in danger on land, I think that
I can manage to run you across 4o the.French
coast in a fishing smack to morrow night."
." Parbleu, mon ami !" exclaimed the captain,
with a laugh. " The land of monsieur will burn
my feet as badly as the land of John Bull. No,
no ; I am safe only on the deck of my own
ship."
" Then you have a ship, sir ?"
" Ay, have I, and a better keel cuts not the
waters of the channel. It is she that I am wait-
ing for. , New we are clear from the shore again
I can breathe more freely. Pull out steadily a'
mile or so, and then we will look about us."

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.


A

r

CH A PTER VIII.
A STARTLING ADVENTURE.

GULFORD rowed out from the beach straight
into the channel. As they got far enough from
the shore- to look round on the other side of the
rock, they saw the troopers retiring, bearing off
the dead bodies of their.comrades who had fallen
in the pursuit.
"Did you ever kill a man before ?" asked the
captain of Guilford, who had drawn his attention
to the scene on shore.
"'No, sir."
"You could hardly do so in a better cause.
If you had not shot that fellow, he would have
cloven me to the earth: I was never harder beset
in my life; and yet I-have not always passed my
4oys in a lady's boudoir." -
"One would not think so, sir, to see you. I
dare say you Iost your hand in some famous
battle !"
The brow of the stranger, naturally black,
became suddenly dark as night. He was silent
for a few moments, and then answered in tones
that thrilled the very heart's blood of the young
fisherman:
"No, sir-on the scaffold 1"
"On the scaffold 1" repeated Guilford, with a
start and a look that betrayed his surprise ; and
in his excitement he'ceased rowing and regarded
the stranger with a new and strange interest. :
"Do not cease to row, my young friend. I

would gain a good sea-berth. Your eyes are
sharp. Look, and tell me what you see in the
south. I fancied*I caught a flash of fire in that
quarter, just west of the moon's path."-
" So did I, sir.' There are three lights-burn-
ing, one above another-. They are small, but I
see them distinctly."
"And so do I," answered the captain,spng-
ing to his feet, and speaking with animatedfjoy.
"That is my boat. It was to row in from the
ship, which.was to remain in tnid-channel, and
every ten minutes, as she pulled 'towards the-
little port of Blithelmstone, was todisplay three
lanterns upon an oar. By being out here half a
league from land I shall save them the trouble
of going farther i,'and yon the time'-which I
know you are generously giving me-froin the
trysting tree. I know-it is unfair to rob a lover
of one moment of such heavenly moonlight as
this."
"Nay, sir cavalier," answered Guilford,:who:
each moment felt more drawn out to like the
man whose life he had saved, and to confide in
him; "it needs but little lightfor a lover to taka
his last adieuof his lady love."
" What I-Is it so?  It must be, from, thy
tones, and the tremor of thy lip. What, a quar-
rel?"                             °
"No, my lord. Do not ask me more."

THE YOUNG:

" Nay, but thy happiness shall be in my keep-
ing. Thou shalt tell me thy-tale on board my
ship. It may be I can serve thee where thou
little thinkest."
" Thanks, captain ; but no one can aid me. It
is settled without charge."
" I will judge of that when I have made thee
tell me thy love story., See ! there shine the
lights again nearer. The rogues are pulling in
towards the land, little guessing their master is
so near' them. If they had been a-land two
hours earlier, I should not have been exposed to
be hunted- like a fox as I was. Pull a little
across the course of the boat, so that we can
meet her."                            ,
Guilford could now plainly see, not a quarter
of a mile off, a black, four-oared barge, pulling
steadily in towards the land. No lights were'
now visible on board, but every few minutes
three round, swinging lanterns had been dis-
played for a moment and then removed. As the'
boats drew near each other, the barge was stopped
suddenly, and there was distinctly heard the
clicking of steel against flint.
"My merry men are regular devils to be on
the alert," said the captain. " They would ham-
mer their flints if they saw a-pair of gulls sailing
near on a rotten spar.- They willchallenge us,
and if we are not quick to give a satisfactory
response, they will give us, without shrive, or
shrift, a couple of pounds of harquebus balls in
our ribs,"
Scarcely had the stranger spoken, than there
came sternly across the water the sonorous hail:
a"What boat is there ?"  ...
"W        ahThe prince I" responded the cavalier, in a
loud voice.
At this the crew of the other boat gave a
hearty British huzza; and the oars falling into
the water, the barge came bounding across the
intervening space of water like an arrow. -The
next moment the two boats were side by side
and stationary. -Guilford had been struck with
amazementwhen. he heard the stranger's answer;
and, believing, that it was indeed the prince in
person, thioughihe had believed him to be a more
youthful. - oking man, he sprang forward to kiss
his hand rid declare his devotion to hini even in
his exile.
"Nay, my brave friend;" said the stranger,
raising him up, "I-am not the prince but I-wish
I were; for thy sake and his own; for I fear me
he has not the good fortune to be go well out of
England as I am. -The answer I gave is but

FISHERMAN.                             81
the name of my ship, and the sign 9f my presence
to my men.- I .am glad to meet you again, my
trusty hearts I" he now said, turning to -the crew ;
and at the same time he exchanged friendly salu-
tations with a young officer who commanded
the barge, and who seemed exceedingly happy
to see him.
".And where is the ship, Edward ?" he asked
of him.                    . -"
To the south-west about four iniles."
"Are all well on board?"
"All, my lord."
"And any news? You have been late."
" We would have been in earlier, but a yacht
was hovering about us till night, and-kept us
from advancing ; and at length it became so
close a watcher that the count.fired a gun,;and
brought her to, and captured her. He feared
they would run in and report the ship."
" He did right. Whose yacht was it ?"
The answer was spoken in so low a tone that
Guilford did not hear it; for the young officer
seemed to speak with constraint-before him
" Ah, do not fear my friend here, Edward. I
owe mny life to his courage. You: must know, I
was seated in the village inn, quietly waiting for
the night, after having by a miracle got, away
from - London, vhen all at once there tap-room
was filled by as truculent a set of Cromwell's
worthies as you ever chanced to' meet with,
Well, I had to put a bold face on theta matter,
and pretended to take no notice of them. s po0
found they were despatched to guard the coas
to prevent Prince Charles from' getting out. of
England; for Olivethas sent guards from Land's
End to Newcastle, to keep him within the island;
but Heaven grant him a safe escape fromis
toils and a trimph over all his enemies !" ,
"Amen 1" said Guilford, in so hearty a tone,
that the youthful seaman who had been called
Edward graspet him by the hand, and =said,
enthusiastically
" Whoever you are, you are my friend, since
you pity the prince."
Guilford returned the pressure with delight,
and the captain resumed :
"My wits were now set to work to find some
way of getting out of the inn without attracting
the particular notice of these suspicious RBund.;
heads. But the first movement I made to rise
to settle my bill and leave was observed by two
of them;, who came near and said, impertinently
and in their sanctimonious whine:
"'Brother, thou needest not depart. Thto.

=-- _

t
x


THlE YONNG FISHElMAN.

shalt abide and sup with us, an'd we will drink
to the health of the'Joshua of the Lord.'
"By this I knew hey meant Oliver their inas-
S ter, andI swoireziternally that I would have my
tongue cut ont'}efore I would lift a cup to my
lips in his hOgr. So I resolved, before I drew
the noti   more of them upon me, that I would
bolt 'ee;and trust to my good fortune ; for
if they  re by chance to discover who I was, I
knew : my fate was sealed. So, without more
ado,'I seized a settle,and swinging it broadly,
knocked my two civil friends to the flooi-, and
clearing myway, I gained the outside of the
hostel, aid then-ran for it. It was some seconds
before-they fully understood the matter who were
outside; but no sooner did the idea take them
that I was not running for a wager, but for my
head, than they were not backward in making
sail after me. Instinctively i made for the sea-
side, where I hoped to see my boat, for it wa
the hout I looked for her appearance to take mp
off to my ship. But no boat was to be seen, and
I followed the beach at life-speed, followed by
ny pursuers,who gave race after me like a pack
of hounds. I shot two of them as they came
after me; but a third, who was mounted, would,
haven't me down but for this brave fellow, who
knocked' him out of his saddle with a pistolet
shot, and then got me off in his boat, which was
close athanai. So you see I have had a narrow
.. esd s kand if you and my merry men love me,
Edward, you will think much of this bold youth,
Guilford Graham."
"Weare friends from this hour," answered
the elg  yqung sailor, whom Gdilford thought
handsome~ enough to be a woman, and laying
his hand affectionately upon hid shoulder.
-"We ill now pull- to the ship," said the cap-
tain; "but, my brave fisherman, wilt thou not
go on board with me ? - I wish to show thee my
brain craft and my true men all,-every soul of
whom will be thy friend for what thou hast.done
to-night: Come, do not hesitate. I will have
thee and thy boat put adrift by sunrise, if thou
likest, near enough to the coast for thee to row
in in half an hour."
" I will go on board, if coming nearer the
shore -of England at dawn will not put thee in
peril oil my account."
" Not a bit; my good friend; I care not, when
I am on board, how near I run in and snap my
fingers at Cromwell's clumsy war ships. Give
way, my men ; we will take the boat, to which I
inipart owe my safety, in tow."

Almost in opposition to his own real wishes,
Guilford found himself consenting to visit the
ship. The captain had fascinated him, and he
felt that he should be content to unite his fortunes
with his, after he should have taken farewell of
Lady Catharine. Indeed, from the fitt, when
the stranger hinted' mechanically that 'he had a
ship, a wish was born in "Guilford's heart to sail
with him and win a name upon the'seas. It was
mainly under the impulse of this scarcely-formed
idea that he yielded to the invitation to go on
board.
"I will, at least, see for myself," he said with-
in himself, musingly ; "and if Ifind that here is a
career open before me for honor and fame, I will
embrace it, if this brave captain will take me
into his service."
In half an hour after' he had consented to be
taken on board the ship, she was seen looming
up about a mile distant, darkly and ipdistinct,
like a huge floating castle with gray towers., A
single blue light was placed over the quarter as
a guide to the boat, in order that it might not
mistake another vessel for it.
"She is' a very large vessel, sir," remarked
Guilford, as she grew larger and larger'on the
vision of his eye' as they approached the place
where she majestically rose and fell upon the
long swells of the quiet sea."
"Yes -'we have not less than three hundred
men on board, and some thirty cannons at her-
sides, besides two swivels in each top."
" It must be a very fine thing to command'so
brave a ship as that, sir captain."
" That is as a person's- aibiti*n may meusuro.
Some particular friends oft'itie, young man,
would hardly be content with less than a channel
fleet."
" I am sure I should consider my fortune made'
for life, sir, to command a single ship half the size
of this. How grandly she towers upward, like
Castle Vat e seen from the beach 1"
"Castle Vane ?-that is Lord Charles Vane's
residene,'and was near where we embarked ?"
"The very castle, sir, that was on the cliff."
"So I supposed.   Is Lord Vane at hOme,
canst say'?"
" The young lord is, sir captain."'
"Ay-is he ? A young man that I do not,
much fancy."
"Nor I,ny lord," answered Guilford, speak-
ing without reflection from the feelingof fthe
moment.
"Ha! has he crossed thy path, then, young
man?"

9

THE YOUNG FISHER
"I like him not well, my lord."          Many a knight asi n ble, and I wot princes too,
*        - "-Common report hath it tbpt .he hath a fair will be suing for her hand. But here we are,
sister. Hast thou, living so near, by chance discoveredand bailed."
seen her'? If so, canst thou bear witness to her  Guilford's heart was swelling.  Hope was
comeliness'?"                              dying in him at these last words of the captain. .
" She is very fair, my lord captain.",   He feltithat he was mad longer, to think of her.
"Thou hast seen her, then'?"             He now saw more vividly than ever his rashnpss
" Yes, my lord," answered Guilford, blushing, and folly.  He, the poor fisher, to cope ,with
and both pleased and annoyed at having Lady knights, nobles, and princes! .,He, felt, like
Catharine the subject ofieonversation. To him dropping into the deep, deep sea, and putting
she was something consecrated to his most secret an end forever, thought he, to this wild hope,
thoughts, and the idea of whom he could share his ambitious madness, his despair, and all the
with no one.                               future of misery which he saw before him on
" She will be one of the proudest peeresses in earth.
the realm ifthe young king comes to the throne.
9
CHAPTER IX.
A THRILLING SCENE.
JtDGING from the captain's reception on board 'my life. 'I was hotly pursued, to the coast by a
his ship, Guilford entertained the highest now spore of Ctomwell's hounds, and-this youngiman;
tions of his authority and popularity. The~scene shot down the leading trooper and got me safely
which the long, warlike decks presented to, his off in his boat.. This is enough for me tosay to
eyes, lighted up by rows of battle lanterns, was place hint on the proper footing with you all"
novel and stirring to the blood. Three hundred  At this, severas ofi the officers advanced and
men were arranged in-orderly ranks to welcome shook Guilford by the hand, and especially the
their returned chief, and the red glare of thalan- young men were enthusiastic in their congratua
terns falling upon their features, lent to their nations. Guilford'. feelings mnay be guessed at,
countenances and picturesque; costumes, a ro- but hardly described, His heart bouuled: with
mantic character that did not fail to impress the joy, fbhyhe: felt that ,through this fair reception
lively- imagination of young Guilford. There might be opened a way for his advancement.
were:at least a dozen officers also-assembled on  The captain now descended, or rather walked
the quarter deck, some .of them men with gray aft into his state-cabin, which was an elaborately
beatds, others young and ardent; They were carved housebuilt over the stern of the after
e~h and all handsomely attired in gold-laced twenty feet of "the deck; for, like the ship cif
coats .and rich chapeaux with plumes. The that period, the'stern rose very loftily, so that a
whole appearance of the ship, with its tiers of person standing upon the top of the poopapdd
cannon, its crowds of fighting men, armed with his;head very nearly on a level, with the mizen
long pistolets. and cutlasses, and its chivalrous top.
looking group of officers, who all seemed gentle-  At the invitation of the captain, Guilford fol-
men born, struck Guilford in the most favorable lowed him into the first apartment--fo'r there
manner.                                    was a roomswithin a room. Before the door of
While he was, casting his eyes about him,, and the farthest state-room stood a sentry.
fillingthem with the new scenes thug, suddenly:  " What, how is this'?" he asked of his- firpt
opened before hit, the captain, who was plainly .lieutenant, seeing-the soldier.
dressedland in travel worn costume, placed his  " My.lord, here  ;,;h written reports of all
hand on his shoulder and said to, his officers that has transpired 0%y9e landes gou three
" Messieurs, to this young fisherman. I owe weeks ago, dt Eastigs ega        ,' sai

ii ,_

L  ? °


84                         Tfl l aGUNG
that officer, handing him a book. "You will
find in it that last-iigit we brought to a yacht,
and have detained the parties, one of whom is a
lady, and at the present time occupies the inner
state-room."
"Yes, yes, Edward said something to me
about it," answered the captain; "but as I 'am
now on board, there can be no harm in letting
them depart. Where is the yacht 7"
"It is alongside, my lord."
" How many persons did it contain i"
"Seven. A gentleman and young lady, one
passenger, and a crew of four men."
"Bring- the gentleman before me."
"My lord, shall I leave ?" asked Guilford,
who saw that this was to-be a private interview.
"No; remain where you are, my friend, I
want to talk with you by-and-by."-
The next moment the lieutenant returned,
conducting Lord Rudolph Vane into the state-
cabin. His face was pale, and his eye had a
tremulous light of fear in it. Guilford instantly
recognized him, but not caring to be recognized
ia return, he withdrew into the shadow of one
of the gilded columns that supported the- deck,
overhead. - But theleyes of Lord Rudolph were
fixed only on the dark, noble, commanding fa e
a form of-the captain.
c"tam sorry,=sir, that my   rce , hi .-
senee, was under the necessitotdetai ing you.
You;are at liberty to depda 'ny moment.
May I know whom I have the honor of -enter-
taining as-my guest I"
",Lord Rudolph Vane, of castle Vane," an-
swered' thp-young man, haughtily; for, finding-
that:no danger was to be apprehended, his na-
tive insolence and audacity returned.
-" Ah, my lord, indeed i I have heard of you,"
said-the captain, with a darkening brow; " and
what I have heard gives your honor not over
much credit.",
"Do you insult me, sir I" demanded Rudolph,
fiercely.
"Be- calm, my lord. Your ire here will do
you no good. You are in my hands, and if you
knew 'who I am, you would expect the next
moment oisear me give the order to have you
hanged at my fore-yard-arm."
Lord Rudolph shuddered. His face became
as pale as marble.4
"Who---who are youI What have you against
me I 'You dare not harm me."
~'No manr deres mes, Lord Vane. Last night,
without, who you were, my officer .in

1ISHERMAN.

charge; seeing you hover about the ship like a
spy, as no doubt you were, captured you. My
first order, before hearing your name, was for.
your release, for anything you can now report
on land can do us no harm; for cre twelve hours,
we shall be - sailing many leagues from here.
But since I learn who you are, I wish to show
you that I ani too far above you to crush such a
reptile. Deeply as you-have wronged me-base
as you are-recreant as you have proved to your
oath as a noble, you are too far beneath my.
contempt to come within the notice of my ven-
geance.
"Who are you ?" demanded Rudolph, with
his eyes red with rage and alarm.
"I am the Earl of Villiers," answered the
captain, in a voice of thunder.
Instantly Lord Rudolph sunk upon his knees,
like a man who has been smitten down by some
irresistible stroke.'
"Wellymay you tremble, caitiff! Ay, I am
that nobleman-that friend of the king, who, by
your treachery, was brought to the scaffold, and
-b'ot nry right hand! Look ye ?" and the, cap-
tain-held up before the eyes of the terror-stricken
ung-lord,-the- stuii  of his wrist. " Under
mask of courting ,mny daughter, Lady Jane, you
wormed yourself into a loyalnoble's house;crept
like a serpent into the sacred circle of my do-
mestic hearth, crouched like a toad in the corner
of my library and council rooms till you learned'
that I Was leader of a conspiracy to bring Crom-
well's head to the block. Then, charged with
the news, tho.- didst mock any daughter's'love
and leave her, andepour into the protector's'ear
all thy treacherous intelligence. For this tihou
.wert rewarded with my fair estate as the hire Far
thy villany, and I and mine exchanged= dur
sweet home for a prison. But thanks to thy
sister, who, when she heard all that thou hadst -
done, and for love of my daughter,, with iwho
she studied her books at common tutelage, -my'
hand and not my head satisfied the usurper, and
I, with my child, was exiled beyond sea. Well
mayest thou crouch and moan. -There is. no-
man on the round earth into whose hands you
should so much-fear to fall as into mine."
The wretch remained upon his knees, looking_
the very picture of fear' and abjectness. The
dread of theeath which he felt he richly meriteild
was stamped upon his clammy brow. lH4lips-
moved, as if trying to form words ta"ask for'
mercy, yet no sound came from them, aa If 
felt that all petitions would be in vain'.

I

Tflfl Y~    OMN.

R
^r
i
d

rttmat hastthQt;to answer for thyself, thou
false and traitorous noble? Shall I nQt hang,
thee?"
" For umy sister's sake !" he gasped, as if he
had.caught a faint ray of hope.,
"1Thy sister ! Ah, yes ; for her sake I would
do much, for I owe to her tears and eloquence
with the stern, flinty Cromwell, my head. What
of-her ?"
"She is here ! Let her speak for me."
"By the rood, she may speak for thy life and
gain it ; but thou shalt lose thy right hand this
night, as surely as there is justice on earth."
"Mercy ! mercy-my lord !"
" Ho there ! Lieutenant St. Clair ! Call the
men together to execution."
-" 0, you are not going to kill me !"
"If thy sister pleads not for thy life, it is not
worth a mavaredi to thee ; but thy right hand
shall be cut off. I have sworn it."
With a shriek, the craven noble fell down in
a swoon his full length upon the floor.
A voice from the inner cabin was now heard
in earnest implorations. Guilford, who had al-
ready divined that Lady Catharine was the
female who had been .captured with the yacht,
no*.recognised the tones, and he darted impul-
sively towards the door; but the sentry presented
his cutlass, and held him back. He then ad-
vanced towards the earl, and said with mueh
excitement
"It is the Lady Catharine Vane, my lord-it
is his sister.".
"I will at once speak with her," he answered,
and approached the door, which he unlocked.
The maiden stood before it, with her toilette
.considerably dishevelled, her rich hair freely,
floating lpon her shoulders, and her beauty iit
creased b' the excitement of her feelings,,
"Lady Catharine Vane, I am not your jailer,
but your debtor," said the earl; courteously.
"Why are we detained prisoners ? What is
this I have overheard about the execution of my
brother?" she,-asked, earnestly.
"Lord Rudolph is notr to be executed if you
ask his life; but he is nevertheless doomed to a
punishment   at no mediation can save him
from. In      lady, you behold Lord Villiers.
This name lesnough to show you what I owe
to your generns interposition, and what"I owe
to your.brother. Here let me thank you, both
for my daughter  and for myself, for the life
which you were instrumental in saving from the
block."

"Thensspare my bother ! 0, he is already
dad !" fhe exe ined, on discovering him upop
the cabin floo;about being raised up and re-
vived by some'attendants,
"lay, it is only a swoon."
"0, spare his life, my noble lord 1"
I will do so, for your sake. And he el4l
understand that to you alone he owes it,'
At this moment, in looking around hrher
eyes fell on Guilford, who was standing near,
reserved and diffident, listening to what-was said.
She no sooner beheld him, than she seemed to
forget everything else, everybody about her; for,
running towards him,) she caught hii by both
hands, and exclaimed, with the artless delight of
a child which amid strangers suddenly discovers
a familiar face:
" You here, Guilford ? Heaven be praised 1"
The earl, who saw the act, and observed the
expression of pure delight and frankness 'upon
her beautiful face, was not a little surprised;
and when he saw 'this pleasure reflected from
the handsome features of the young fish roman '
he was hot a little perplexed.
"Do not fear; Lady Kate, you ae safe, and in
the hands of a n bleu'gbrtle a,' Ajd niilford,
enc6uragingly.
"I hope you are tot here a prisoner i-that
you are not in any danger?"
"Be assured, tady Catharine," said the earl,
smiling, " that there is not at this mnient more
honored person in this ship than this young
man, who, I am pleased to see, is also known to
you; to him I owe my life, He brought me off
to my ship in his boat, and without'his gallalt
aid I should now no longer be alive."   *
Thanks-thanks! I am so glad you hae
^   ablesto serve the earl. Ah, Guilfordtoy
brother has done him great wrong. Bttmy
lord, I beseech thee, forgive him."
"Plead for me, Catharine !" suddenly caled
out the young noble, who had been brought to
his senses. "Plead for me."
" She has done so successfully, my lord," an-
swered the earl, coldly. "She has gained thy
life for thee."
"But my hand! You will not cirt offmy
hand I"
' "Were an angel to descend from the blue
skies and ask me to spare thy hand, Iwould
not do it. It lsaneed and rip justice that thou
shouldst not g&amp; unpunisl'$n j
" My lord,  ercy fo   brot s  1"
" Lady," said the earl,'dtai 'i


THM .OU N1GISHERMAN.

maiden by the hand, and leading her gently into
the rear state-room, "do not' pain me by com-
pelling me to deny what I cainIot grant. ' Be-
lieve me, this is not vengeancelit duty. It is
justice that Lord Rudolph should be compelled
to suffer what he has been .ii Srumcntal in in-
flicting upgn me."
"0, ny lord, leave vengeance to him to whQm
it b longeth-

" It is not vengeance. It is punishment. Re-
main here. Do not-leave until Ireturn to you,'
he said kindly, but firmly. " But for thy pres-
ence here, I should have hanged him to the
yard-arm; not from personal hatred, but because
he is so sleepless a foe to the prince. He - even
condescends to play the spy in the channel in
his own person. The lesson he must have. I
will return to you in a few moments."

CHAPTER X.
LOnD nDOLPH'S PUNISHMENT.

'Tn Lady Kate sat upon the ottoman where
ho had left her with her hands pressed to her
eyes, and her face buried in the cushions. She
saw that the earl was inexorable ; and although
her brother had never been otherwise than hos-'
tile towards her ever sinceshe had pleaded so
s   c   ly for the Earl of Vilhiers, yet she
ou     ;forget that he was her brother; and,
deserved nothing at her hands, yet
she fetthat she ought to use all her influence
bizfree him from the disgraceful maiming to
=haehhe was-about to be subjected.
But I can do-no more," she said ; "his fate
sealed. "I saw by the earl's eye as he left
Ah, poor, erring Rudolph; thou cast
blaine only thyself ! Horrid! that rolling drum
mus,_ be the signal for the execution of the in-
fle   . earl's command !"
*     When, the earl returned from the state-room
where he had left.the tearful maiden, he found
Lord Rudolph, who had recognized Guilford,
and with surprise seen that he was regarded
with favor, pleading, with the young fisherman
to intercede for him.
"Y6u are not a prisoner. I know you can
forgive me, for you are naturally generous, I
have heard my sister say. Speak a word for
me. I cannot endure the loss oT my hand! For
my sister's sake, do plead for me!"
"I have no power, my lord," answered Guil-
ford, who cold not conceal his contempt for
his cowardly-conduct at a time when i truly
brave a -    zd meet Its fate with proud in-

to

difference. But there was nothing truly great
about Lord Rudolph. He could be haughty
and cruel in possession.of power, but in suffer-
ing he showedin its true colors all the weakness
and insignificance of his character.
" Will no one intercede for me ?" he cried in
despair, seeing Guilford turn away, for he well
knew that if Lady Kate could not prevail, no
wold he could utter would be regarded.
"Is all ready ?" quietly demanded the earl of
the officer who had superintended the prepara-
tions for the execution of the sentence.
"All ready, my lord," answered the officer.
Conduct Lord Vane- to the deck, unless he
will walk of himself."
"Is there no mercy with thee . screamed the,
young nobleman.
"yThou mightest as well talk to the &amp;xe that
is to sever thy'hand. Proceed with: hin, as te
is disposed to linger. Nay, do not handle him
roughly, for he is noblee birth.",
The young lord was then led to the deck. -e
was borne along rather than went by his own
will. The scene was terribly imposing. .In the
centre of the ship just, abaft the capstan, was
placed a block. By ii stood four n n. One of
them held a glittering battle-axe  his hand;
another a brazen basin; the third and fourth
lanterns. A little in the advance stood the chi-
rurgeon of the ship, with his instruments and
bandages, added to which was a sething hot
iron, for stopping the flow of the blood. The
crew stood around, -seven and eight deep, their

/

bearded faces lighted up byth
hung in the rigging. Farther
cers, with their swords in their,
When Lord Rudolph gazed o
well calculated to appal his ne
~teranfee to an audible groan.
"'Take him 'in hand,. execute
earl, "and at the stroke of the sh
duty. This man," added the en
him, "is to undergo a just punit
information I was condemned
but through the intercession ofo
Croniwell was content with my h
creed that this young lord shal
ishment which his master inflict
At this there was a general m
nation, and the interest deeper
dolph, being led up to the block,
off his coat. But not obeying,
by another, and his arm was th
and bound firmly, in spite of h
shrieks, to the block. The exec
scended upon the wrist, and v
shriek rent their ears from the vr
ing'hand was caught in the bra
chirurgeon instantly proceeded
duty, and to staunch the blood
earl, turning away from the spot
state-room..
"This act of justice done, I a
to be branded as Red}Hand, as m
Cromwell's epithet, have called n
But the protector shall feel that
hands is batized in the blood of
other bath power enough in its
shake his usurped throne !"
The earl walked up and down
four times, under much excite'
t occurrence had naturally
boom.     'e then looked around
seeking some one.
"What, ho!I where is young
asked'of the sentry who stood b
door which led into the inner ap
He passed in, my lord, urgii
speak with the lady, and as youh
open, I did not consider that sl
garded as a prisoner."
Very well; you are released:
The man retired, and the ea
the door, which was ajar. He
was about to ent  when he arre
the threshold  ' hat he behel
the feet ofhe  ping girl, was

36

.'

,  '.:  '

i
.,

THE -YO              BMAN.
ie lanterns that ermanh   nd clasping that of the high-born
aft were the offi- girl, and hisface aproaching hers, and expres-
hands.         sive of the teo'erest and most fespeCtful symipa-
)n this scene, so thy.
rves, he gave ut-  "It is ove  OW, Lady KateI Tears are now
of no avail'! I Itwould have pleased thee, I
ioner," said the would gladly le' taken his place, though thou
ip's bell, do your knowe t I have  s reason to love him. But
ri, looking about all who are relaies4 , y  thee are near to me, for
shment. By his thy sake. - Let us -e e tent that his life was
to the scaffold; spared, for it was the catalin's certain purpose
a noble maiden, to have hanged him, but f4thee."
land. I have de-  "I cannot blame-I caidt.,reproach. Ru-.
l share the pun- dolph must feel the justice of his ft , she said;
ed upon me."   with, sudden resolution. "But ho ' iskthou
urmur of appro- on board this terrible vessel ?"'
ned. Lord Ru-    " I came to bring off the captain,vho, being
was told to take on shore, was set upon and nearly .slain by
it was removed Cromwell's troopers ; and although I was on,n
en stretched out my way, dearest Lady Kate, to'the castle'tq .a'
is struggles and thee, I turned aside for his safety,' and' caet
utioner's axe de- hither, little expecting to find thee on board as -I
while a thrilling have done."
ictim, the bleed- "'My brother, when he had taken me firoa
zen basin. The your fishing boat, how I chanced'to be in which
to perform his I explained to him, instead ongoingg to land,
while the stern hovered in the channel till night, and then be-
t, re-entered the gan to watch this vessel, whichhe was*expecting,
for he has been out in his yacht for fopaytj ,
m more content waiting to intercept the captain fromt° Ae
nen, catchingip when he should come on board, as fI er'fim
ne,far and wide. say to the young man with him, who Iaorte
t if one of my of Cromwell's agents. Do you kno* who the
the scaffold, the captain is?" she asked pointedly, and in an
strong nerve to under tone.
"The Earl Villiers."
his cabin three  "Yes, but are you aware that this ship is that
rment, which the of the far-famed Red Hand ?"
awakened in his  "Of Red Hand the buccaneer ?" exclaimed
, as if he were Guilford, starting to his feet with surprise.
"Earl Villiers and Red Hand, of whom I have
Graham " he, heard you name the bold exploits, are one and
y the half open the same person."
artment.        " Can this be possible ? Are you in the rower
ag that he must of this terrible man ?"
hadleft the door  " You mistakehim. It is the cttxon people,
he was to be re- the round-heads, who call hii' e . He is
no buccaneer, Guilford, bit aneil oble, who
from duty."    has united with himself many bravftirits like
rl advanced to his own, who, in this ship, hover about England,
opened'it, and seeking to do all the injury to the usu-per's ause
sted himself on that lies in their power, and to have ever ready
d. Kneeling at for the prince an armed ship to take lzinp over
the young fish- the sea when he is driven to the la   ld op

i

^ '.          3
a


FISmRMAN.

X88

his ghtfulkingdom. There is np   truer noble But one thing it is proper for te to do, and that
rpatheg$in England than Lor&amp;; illiers, known is, to break off a friendship which will only con-
as Red Hand. I can - forgive hign his punish- tinue to embarrass you, when you reflect upon
ment af Rudoph, for my- brothr has cruelly your own position, and my low station. Per-
caussd'all his-woe. But of bi I will talk with haps, as younger, it was allowable, as you conde&amp;
you another time."                        scended to suffer it ; but, Lady Catharine, I can-
"And is thia Red Iad     p ? Is that cap- not expect you, in womanhood, to abide by the
tain whose life I save4' p  shore, the daring friendship of girlhood, Here let me say fare-
channel cruiser who{as defied and beaten off well; for I may have no other opportunity. May
four of the protects ships ? Is this the man you one day be united with one worthy of you
that I have reg'ar4 I as the hero of romance, and in rank and virtue, and I will always pray for
whose exploits wy-* the wonder of my curiosity ? your happiness."
I am gladyo i have corrected my error with re-  With these words he knelt, pressed her hand
gagg4t ,,  ,Lady Kate. But he is called Red to his lips, and was retiring precipitately, when
-and, the Rover, often."                  he found himself face to face with the earl.
"Yes, the , covenanters, who fear-him, would  "My young friend, do not be so hasty. I have
frighten their children with his name as with a heard and understand all. You have acted no-
goblin's. But I know that he is a true and loyal bly. Your own heart is breaking as a sacrifice to
-Englishman, and one of the staunchest friends what you believe to be a duty. Lady Catharine,
of he crown; and that he does more to keep you look puzzled and distressed. May I ask you
alive the flame of loyalty by his active and sleep- one plain question ?"
less courage than any of the exiled lords. He  "Yes, my lord."
alone, as it were, wages war against Cromwell,  "Are you attachedto this brave young man ?"
who has offered vast sums for his capture. All  " We have long been friends, my lord."
this:I have learned from my father, who has the  " Have you any wish to terminate the friend-
highest regard for him, and who has shed many ship, as you term it ?"
a bitter tear that he should have'had a son who  " Indeed,-I was never more surprised,-
could indict auch injury upon him. Confide in when-"
biz, Guilford, and he will be your.friend."  " It is because you do not clearly understand
"Lady Catharine," said Guilford, in a changed him. He feels, and properly, that you1and he
and formal tone, while Lord Villiers, who was can never be united as if you had both been no-
each moment tempted to enter, but was yet re- ble; and being fully alive to the difficulties that
strained, saw that his face grew pale, and his lips must interpose to bar such a union, he nobly
colorless. She looked up into his face, for he sacrificeshimself."
was standing by her, with a stare ofIsurprise at  "He then does not understand me, my lord.
this unusual mode of addressing hey.      I have never taken into thought the differences
"Whpt is it, Guilford ?" she asked, artlessly. of our rank. I trust, Guilford, you will think of
" I told you that last.night, when I was so for- this no more."
tunate as to offer assistance to Lord Villiers, I  " You are too kind and generous, Lady Catha-
was ;onm y way to the castle. It was in.order ring," said Guilford, casting himself at her feet.
to see you and have a last interview with you. " But I must win a name, to make myself more
It was to take leave of you forever."     worthy of you. If you waive all rank, I shall
" Take leave ofme, Guilford ? Where are you try and achieve, instead, merit. It shall be my
going? or what have I done !" she asked with ambition to make myself worthy of you, and
surprise.                                 make the world respect himwhom'Lady Catha
I' Nothing. Where I am going, I  upw pmt rine Vane thus honors."

i

* , 4' ,

CHAPTER. XI.

TflI TURN TO CASTLE VANE.

'Tma interview with which the last chapter
closedd having thugs happily terminated, the earl,
after complimenting Guilford on his spirit, pro-
posed to him, if nothing better offered, to take
service with him in his ship.
"We shall not always be wanderers over the-
sea, my friend," he said ; "the prince will one
day gain hisihrone, and then we shall be at the
top. As for Lady Catharine's heart, you maybe
sure that it is in the right place ; and I have a
higher regard for you'than before, since I fid'
you possess qualities. to win the attachment of-
so lovely a lady, who, in the brightness of your,
character, can discover no obscurity of birth..
Now I have one favor to ask of you," added the
earl,- " and trat i5 that you will take command
of the yacht and convey Lord Rudolph and'
fair sister safely back to Castle Vane: He'"
of course,- be something of an invalid, and mnd
be. tenderly; eared for. The person who ws
taken with him in the yacht, is a'spy of Crom-
well's and I shall take care of him'here. If at
any time you wish to join my fortunes, you will
hear,of me, if you 'Will run over in your boat to
the French coast, and land on the island of Al-
derney, off .Cape de la Hague. At 'that little
port there is aninn, painted red. The lsandlord'
"4xways knowmy term of absence- -whdn  in
hway,' and and line left there for me will be

faithfully given into my possession when I put
in there."
Guilford thanked the earl for his kindness, and -
answered that he thought he should very soon
be conpe'lled to take him at his word and seek
service with him.
"Thou shalt be welcome, and although I can
do but tle for thee under my present fortunes;
sote 'd ,hen I rise, you will rise  th me."
noble earl,_I fear," safGuilford,
I shall hardly ever rise sa'hlgh as
rthy_ pdoffer the Lady Catharine a hand
tha   u~d not be despised by her proud houe."
"Courage,     brave youth. In thede top-
:ing ties,       o are at the bottom of the
fadded-d ,'-morrow may stand on the top
d. With a'face, figure, health and courage
r and above all, with such a pie to
you havenothing to fear."
" This conversation took place in the other cab-
in. The officer of the deck now entered and re,
ported that the yaclt was alongsid, and her
crew on board and all was ready for her depar.
'ure.

"That-is as it should be. Nc
friend, you must;convey Lord Rui
maiden to Castle1Vane. Go 0o
Lady Cathariie shall be esc
yacht."'  *i '

young..
i1rtho

4

-y-r

i


AOw
Guilford then took a grateful leave of the for-
midable Red Hand, in whose dry presence he
could scarcely realize himself to have been, and
descended into the yacht. The snrlight shone
brightly upon its low deck, on wich, stretched
upon a cot, he saw the prostrate form of Lord
Rudolph, looking ghastly p.   the face. He
advanced towards him, and it- kindly :
"I hope, my lord, you do not -suffer a great
deal of pain ?"
"Pain ! Iendure infernal torments. Who are
you ? I see, now. What do you want in my
yacht ?"
"I am prpered by Lord Villiers to take charge
ft, and see you safely to Castle Vane, as he
can spare none of his men."
"Where is Tennett I"
" Whomy lord?"
" The gentleman who came with me."
"I heard the- earl say that as he was a spy of
Cromwell's, he should put him in irons. My
lord, I have no desire to undertake this duty,
but it is the earl's command. I am truly sorry
for your misfortune, and will see you to Castle
Vane with all tenderness."
" And Lady Kate ?"
The answer to this interrogation was prevent-
ed by the appearance of Red Hand, conducting
the noble girl to the yacht. Guilford sprang for.
ward to receive her and leadher to a seat in the
stern; but she stopped short of it, and bent over
her brother with affectionate solicitude.
"Now, my noble young friend," said Lord
Villiers "I need not tell you what a valuable
freight entrust to your charge.      and
remember " he added, in an unde       der-
ney Isle and the inn, if you hami       y
poor services. And for you, Lord Rudolph, I
wish you a better heart and more true nobility.
I have given you a daily r   rance of megso
I will not ask you to bear m  wIiind. Adieu,
fair Lady Catharine. What I have witnes
and learned of the true nobility of yo ,
ter to-night, has caused me to respect you
of the rarest jewels among women. You have
not," he added to her ear, "lightly bestowed
your heart. Believe me, this brave y6uth will
yet causehisname to fill a brilliant page in Eng.
land's history."
"I feel it, my lord. He is all that's good, and
noble, and tr'ue." a
Love and ,cherish him, for women do notl
alway. me to love. I hope, one of these
days,           u happiness. 4Farewell; it i

[A N$

but tw'oleagues to yourfather's castle. Commend
me to him; but do not from me excuse my pun-
ishment of his son, for I have performed but a
stern and painful duty."
" I know it, my lord," she answered, sadly.
He pressed her hand to his lips, and left the
deck of the yacht for his own lofty ship.
The next moment the little vessel was cast off
from the huge side of the channel cruiser, and
-taking the helm, Guilford gave orders to the
crew to trim the sails, and with a light, but fa-
vorable breeze, he lay the course of the yacht for
the main. The ship at the same time squared
herenormous yards, andher head swinging round
westward, she steered on that track till Guillord
could see her no longer. The yacht, in the
meanwhile, bounded lightly along on her land.-
ward track, and clearer and higher the cliff with
its castle rose before him. The lights of the
little fishing village at its base appeared one after
the other ; and from one of the towers one light,
brighter than the rest, shone like the lantern of a
Pharos.
"That is -my father's room, Guilford," said
Lady Kate, seeing that he was regarding it.
" Doubtlesshe is seated there at his books, for he
has the name of being a great scholar, thou hast
heard."                  4
" Perhaps it is to guide thee back."
"Nay, he nor no one is aware that I have been
on the sea the last twelve hours. You recollect,
Guilford, that my getting into your boat was
only the whim of the moment !aand after my
brother so strangely took possession of me,.I had
no chance of return. Perhaps my father supposes
that I am in my room; for I am so much accus-
tomed to rove about for hours, that unless I am
particularly wanted, it is not known whether I
am in the castle or abroad."
" I hope you will not have been missed."
" Catharine," said Lord Rudolph in a queru-
lous voice.
" What, brother Rudolph?" she answered, has-
tening to his side. "You hage slept well."
"I wish to exact an oath from- you. I see we
are near the castle. Swear to me, by your hopes
of heaven that you will never reveal to my father
nor any otherliving being the disgrace Ihave to-
night suffered !".
" I will not reveal it, brother, if you desire the
secret to be kept."
" Desire it to be kept ! It must be kept a
close secret! If you do not blab- it, and this
fishing friend of yours can be forced to be so.

1 tN.

cret, I will manage to hide from my friends the
loss of my hand. I cold never endure the
scornful laugh, the consciousness of a mutilation
so degrading.".'
"But it must be known, brother."
"It is known only to the crew of this infernal
pirate, not one of whom will ever dare land in
England. If you keep the secret, and this fellow
can be made to do it--"
" Guilford Graham is a person who can be
trusted, brother," she said with some earnestness.
"So you think. He has fascinated you, girl,
by some vile spell. Call him to me. Nay, I
will not speak to him, but will leave it to you to
exact silence from him."
"I will promise it for him. But you forget
the four men, your crew."
" They will not breathe it.' They are the min-
ions of my will. Go and see what this Graham
answers."
In a frame of mind far from welcome, Lord
Rudolph lay upon his couch; for his pride strug-
gling with a fierce sentiment of hatred and
craven fear, and mingling with some little de-
gree of remorse, kept up a fearful tempest of
passion in his soul.  Lady Catharine left him
on her message to Guilford, a prey to emotions of
perfect torture. However, by an effort stronger
than 'was his wont, he checked their sway, and
awaited, coolly as he might, the answer of Guil
ford.
" He says he has no desire to report it," she
answered, after going to the helm where Guil-
ford stood, steering the vessel in towards the
foot of the cliff.
"I shall take care to keep it myself," he mut-
tered, smiling, as if he heard her words with
evident satisfaction.
The yacht now drew nearer the land, and was
soon within the black shadow cast by the tall
cliff. A few minutes afterwards she came to
the stone pier, where the boats of the castle
were usually moored. Here Guilford brought
the yacht skilfully to alongside the landing
steps. The men obeyed his orders in furling the
canvas and making her fast; and then taking
the cot up on which the young lord-.was lying,
they proceeded to bear him ashore, and convey
him up the steep path to the castle. Guilford
gave his whole attention to the comfort of the
invalid, taking care that the men moved steadily
and cautiously, while Lady Kate went on before.
At length they reached the gate of the castle,
*where, after delivering his charge to the warder,

.to whom lqrd Rudolph said he had been merely
wounded in  duello, he left to return-to his own
home. , But hehad not advanced ten steps from
the portcu  pre he was detained by the voice
of Lady Kat ofose at his side.
" Why, G U    , you do not well to take your
leave so quicTor rather no leave at all., You
have not given°a time to thank you."
" I did but feintforritate your brother nsre
if he saw me take leavv of thee,"'he answered,
pressing ,o his lips the land she placed confid-
ingly in his.
" You are too guarded, G4ilford. You know
not how proud I have been ofyou this day 4t41
night past. I cannot return with  te toe g
my sense of your noble delicacy. I pyM j4
and understand it all. From this time we know
each other, and you will not mistrust me ?"
"Mistrust thee, Lady Kate ?"
" Nay, that is not the word, exactly. But
you will not doubt my regard for you ?"
"I cannot; you are too kind, when you know,
as I now do fully, how far beneath you-I am."
"Love knows no-rank. You are worthy of
me, or I should never have- loved or cared for
you. How like you Red Hand3".
"And that noble gentleman and right hearted
patriot was the famous sea king I have heard
so much of. How difficult is for me-to realize
that in the Earl Villiers I saw none other than
that celebrated captain."
"Do you not like him ?"
"It seems to me I could die for him."
"So do all men who know him, my father
says; and he is not the least of his fri  . But
how shall I forgive him his act of to  1"
,"It was" terrible, retribution, Lady , but
was it not deserved ?"
"I cannot deny it. My brother has deeply
wronged him; and perhaps it is just be himself
should endure something of the suffering he has
indicted upon. him. It was a mercy that he
spared his life. Now, my noble friend, since we
must part, tell me frankly where you are to go-
what course you have marked out for yourself,
so that one day you may come back and ask my
hand of my father; for, as thou hast said thou
must achieve somewhat to please him and give
thee honor., I will wait thy time, true to thee,
even to death, so that thou comest not in life to
laim me as' thine."
SThis was spoken with all the truthfulness and
sweet confidence of a woman who lpyes with'all
her heart.

I.

.
.tr  ,,
:,, ,


-e                             THEM     iiMAN.
y~j "I have hardly formed a plan, dear Lady are true, and the prince is making his way to
Kate. I will, by to-morrow, decide. But my the south of England, hoping to'find a passage
mind is so full of the Earl of the fed Hand, across to France."
that I shall probably decide by gi g  to offer  "Heaven grant that he may reach France in
him my services."                         safety, and foil all his foes," said Guilford, with
"That would please me, Guilib . He thinks warmth. " But Cromwell is so vigilant, his
much of you. Though i is nQ*liut the head emissaries are so numerous,his spies so vigilant,
of a small company, and coaia s but a single that every person who cannot give a satisfactory
shipbnder good King        e irst, he was account of himself, will be placed under arrest."
lord high admial, and ri ednavies by his nod."  The lovers had now reached the point in the
"I will follow his fortunes."           path down the cliff where it became precipitous.
" Thou wilt not be~led astray? The times Here they stopped, and Lady Kate, taking Guil-
are ripening, zi y-' her says, for the thronie to ford by the hand, looked him earnestly in the
hate its ,W p     The land is weary of the eyes, and said:
its tyranny. Prince Charles  "You are going to seek your fortune and win
defeated, it is true, and is now a fugi- a name. But remember, I do not ask either
tire, either in Scotland or England, at this mo- from you; but they are your own voluntary
ment; but if he escape over sea, he will then be wish; and never forget that, if after all, you
the rallying point for armies of tens of thou- should return unfortunate, and without the suc-
sands."                                   cess you hope for, you will be received by me
"It was rumored yesterday," said Guilford, with the same affection with which I now part
"that the prince had been seen in Warwick in from you."
the disguise of a pack-man, travelling south. It  The lovers now took leave of each other, and'
was also reported that one who had known him Guilford hastened down the precipitous path
perfectly, saw the same packenan in Berkshire, without trusting his eyes to look back and take
south of Oxford, two days afterwards."    another look of the fair form which he knew
" We heard of this; and doubtless the reports was lingering to gaze after him.

4

CHIAPTER     XII.
SURPRIsING INTELLIGENCE TO GUILFORD.

"Marry have I? Blood shed for the prince.
You must know that I did but fill a cup in the
inn yonder to the Prince Charles, when, these
Cromwell troopers set uponlie, and wouldthave
slain me outright, but for Dame Bess, the' boe-
teas, who took my part, and told them roundly
I was but a poor, innocent, and meant nsibody
no harm, and wouldn't hurt a fly, as thou  know-
est, Master Guilford."
"What have Cromwell's troopers top in the
inn?"
" Cromwell's troopers? .What, hast t " not
heard  the news? This is a godsend, then,  ..
thou hast not heard what I supposed every ma
woman and child in' all the village had hear .
Wiy, if there is one trooping roundhead in the
port, there is two hundred and fifty of the shaven
crowned, psalm-singing rogues."
"What are, they doing here ? When did they
come ?" asked Guilford, with surprise; for hav-
ing left the village just before their arrival the
evening before, he knew nothing of the object
of this newyg ision o( the covenanters, though
that a partypfy.them were in the town he was
aware, from their chase of the captain. But he
ignorant of'the particulars.
" .They came galloping ,in about sundown,
and what-,could not find quartga it theinn,
dispersed over the hamlet,          not a

TaE way by which he now left the castle was
not that which descended to the beach, where
the boats usually were, but a path that led north-
ward down the hill :towards the country-side,
and which conducted perseps who left the castle
for the, interior, to the main road a, mile off.
Upon reaching the deep glen at the foot of. the
eminence, Guil(ord struck into a broader cart-
way that went in the direction of 'the village.
He walked onward, lost in his own thought, and
thinking upon the chances of the future. He
had emerged from the little dale, and had the
village roofs in sight, when the voices of singing
and bacchanalian  carousing reached his ears.
He stopped, surprised' at:what he heard,, and
then hastened forward to ascertain the cause of
such unusual sounds. He had gone but a few
steps further, however, when he saw a man
seated by the roadside, groaning in a most piti-
able way. He approached him, and recognized
Digby, the well-known village busybody and
gossip.
"Up, man, up ! What aileth the,.Digby ?"
"What, is it thee, Master Guilford ?" asked
the man, starting to his feet and hugging the
young fisherman with great delight. "I am
glad to see thee !".
" What hath happened ? Thy clothes are torn
half off thy back, and thou hast blood on thy
cheek."

"i.
a
5r    f

'd r
f

i."          N                                               _
1  '                                            _


44

THE YQ

house that has not a bracq of them. to kiss the
lasses and eat out the larders.  for what
they ha' come for, it is to ke  watchh that
Prince Charles don't find shippig at our little
fishing town and get safe over to once."
"This is news, indeed, for atir quiet town,
Digby. I knew some had beed here, but sap-
posed they had left. Dost thiknow whether
there are any of these roundhead rogues at my
cabin?"
"Marry, come up, Inverily believe that the
two most truculent fiends among 'em, the two
Goliaths of Gath, are making themselves at
homethere."
#'!n I ought to be there at once," said the
yng man, hurrying forward.
"But, be discreet. I would advise thee en-
treat them civilly."
" I shall be discreet, you may rest assured. I=
shall-take care not to propose Prince Charles's
health- to a brace of covenanters," he added,
laughing.
"Nay, take me with thee. Let me keep un-
der the protection of th'valiancy, good Master
Guilford. When I got tay head broke, I went
to thy house first, but the good dame told me
thou hadat taken the way to the castle last;.and
although after midnight I came this way to wait
for thy coming, an  I will not leave thy back
while a -onndhead varlet hath footing in the
town. --There'is nothing like courage to defelid
a mailagainst'dangers; and if a man have it
not hiniself, he must seek it elsewhere; and
marry, I know thou hast enough for thee and
e.- Hgk! hear the arrant hypocrites sing
their long winded Old Testament verses. There
was d~a chap of them who had a beard like a
lion, who did nothing but sing over a chapter
ol proper names, as 'Moses begat Boaz,' and
by the way he rolled his eyes up, one woujd
have fancied he got great grace from the em-
ployisent."
Digby went on talking after this fashion, until
they came to a lane turning towards the water
from the main street, on which the hamlet was
built. At the foot of this lane stood his own
cottage. At the corner of it he was challenged
by a trooper mounted on a black horse.
"Who goes there?"
"A fisherman."
"Advance, and- let me see if thou smelles.
fishy," answered the man, in a coarse manner.
Guilford approached him, and taking off his
bonne    t    i wed him his face.

RMAN.

a

"Where dost thou live ?"
" There !" he answered, pointing at his house.
" And what art thou doing abroad so late, for
it is well to two o'clock in the morning ?"
" I have been a trysting."  '
" So I guessed; but, young man, beware of
the lusts of flesh, and the pride-of life, and-the
allurements of Sathanas. .And who is that with
thee ?"
" A poor wretch whom I take to fish with me
at times."
" Let me look at thee closer, thou poorwretch,
for a king's eye might hide itself under the
shadow of a beggar's cowl."
With this the trooper extended the point of
his long sword, and catching the cap of Digby
upon its end, raised it into the air. 'He then
made him approach close to his stirrup, and
looked keenly into his round, pug-nosed, bloated
visage.
"By the beard of Herod, thou art the prince
of ale-pots, and must have too much dread of
water to think of crossing it. Thou wilt never
cross over to France and drink sour wine, while
thou cast grow lusty on good ale in England.
What is thy name, Sir Rubicund'?"nI
" Digby-Datid, Digby, your highness," an-
swered the gossip, with humility.
"Thou shouldst be called Balaam," answered
the trooper, who, at this moment,'seeing another
person running down the street, left Digby and
spurred towards him.
" By my head, this fellow would as lief seat
me unsodden, as he would a hare, Mtater Guil-
ford. Didst mark his teeth?"
Guilford, however, had taken the opportunity
to walk on toward the gate'of his house, and
he was about opening it, when he perceived two
persons seated within it upon a little wooden
settle, which, of an evening, was a common
family resort.
"It is Guilford !" exclaimedone of the per-
sons, springing up on seeing'him.
" What, Anne ?Up so late?    It is near
morning.".
. "I know it, cousin, but-but-one could'not
sleep with two soldiers within; and besides,
they have my bed; and moreover, Ait{t Betsy
bade me wait without and watch for your re-
turn."
"Guilford, you'do not know me here in the,
shadow."
" What, Robin ? Is it you?"
"I have been keeping thy, cousin Anne cow-

THE Y(

pany, waiting for thee. I would not leave her
and your mother alone during your absence,
with two troopers in the house."
" You are very kind, Robin. I know not
how to thank you. But," he added, smiling,
"I suppose you have not been without your
sweet reward, from what I saw as I interrupted
you."9
Robin colored, and Anne held down her head.
"Not the least sign of jealousy does he show,"
she said to herself, with disappointment. "lHe
does not tare for me, or love me as Robin does.
I will never let him know I have loved him,
since he is so cool and indifferent about it."
" Where are these men, Robin !" asked Guil-
ford.
"One is asleep, with his head laid on the
table; the other is stretched on the bed in boots
and sword, and snoring away like a swine?'
"So much the better. Where is my mother ?"
" She is in the back room," said Anne; "But
I have a-"
" Have what?" asked Guilford, seeing her
hesitate and draw back, after seeming about to
make some important communication to him.
"I forget.. Nothing."
"You remain here with Anne, Robin, until I
return,' said Guilford. " I wish to speak-a few
words with my mother. 4iave then something
I wish to say to you." 
"I will stay with Anne ithpleasure," an-
swered Robin.. "Now, sweet Anne, what did I
tell thee? Did I not say he loved thee.only as
a cousin ? Thou seest he cared not a stiver for
my being with thee so matny hours of .moon-
light,.whereas, if he had loved thee, he would
have-shown his jealousy; for beshrew me ! sup-
pose I, loving thee as I do, should lba' come
home late #t night and found thee up with'a
young fellow, in a bower, his arm about thy
,waist, and thy hand in his; 'should I not have

45
taken fire, aid had a quarrel with thee on the
spot? To     lre. Love would act no other-
wise. But,     does thy cousin Guilford do?
He thank      for keeping thee company as
quietly as  thou wert his sist'br, acd now
marches intotle house,.bidding me keep thee
company a littlelonger. Does this look as if
he loved thee, test thou?"
" I am satisfies r Bne, robin," answered Anne
with tears in her eyes.: "I see that he cares
nothing for me."
"Then why wilt thoulnt care for me ? I
love thee with all my heart!, I will try and
make thee happy. You will never fnd a truer
heart than that I offer thee."
"I will be thine, Robin. I know you love
me. I will think no more of my cousin Guil-
ford."
At hearing this, the happy Robin caught the
fair girl to his heart, and imprinted upon her
lips the seal of betrothal. The kiss was strangely
echoed, as it a person had thrust his finger into
his cheek 9nd drawn it out quickly,-causing a
popping sound. Both looked up and beheld
Digby.
"That's what I like to see,".he said. "Noth-
ing like loving one another. Well, I'll fet the
whole village knowof it to-morrow; qnd when
you. are married you must invite Digby.' You
can't have a.wedding without Digby. Nothing
goes on right without'Digby. Where's Master
Guilford gone, Miss Anne "¢;
"In the house," answered the maiden, blush-
ing and laughing. "0, you eavesdropper !
Come hither, Digby. If you will say.nothing
about this, I will give you a silver sixpence nert
Saturday night, to drink the prince's healthy"
"Well, I wont, blame me if I do,"'anarered
pigby, as he stretched himself upon one of the
settles to sleep.

I

t


.4A

CHAPTER XIII.
AN INTERESTING COMMUNICATION.

GUILFORD found the door of the cottage ajar, who, with a few scraps of the Old Testament
and pushing it softly, he entered the small, on their lips, passed for pious covenanters, and
plainly, furnished front room. A lamp filled under the cloak of religion, did all sorts of en-
with fish-oil burned upon the table, with a huge ormities.R
" thief" upon the wick. By its light he saw the  "Let them sleep ; I have no wish to disturb
two troopers. Upon a small truckle-bed in the them)" said Guilfor4,'assing on and opening
corner lay one of them, sleeping off the pota- the inner door of  other's room. "I have-
tions of negus with which he and his comrade already placed one" their number in the sleep
had been abundantly plied by-tbe good dame, that knows no waking." And with this recollec-
who desired to get them in a state of quiescence tion of what he had done the evening before,
as soon as possiblej-a result inwhich she had ad- came over his mind for the first time the thought
mirably succeeded.  Sleeping heavily, and with that he might possibly be recognized by some of
a loud, sonorous breathing, the other trooper sat the party who had been nighest when he shot
by the table, his head among the cups, and rest- the soldier, though it was moonlight and not
ing on his thickly gloved hand. His black beard broad day, and no one came within twenty yards
lay out upon the board like a mop, while the of him, save the horseman who was downed in
light shone upon his round; closely shaven head, trying to swim his horse round the promontory.
giving it the appearance of a porcupine rolled  Upon hearing the door open, his mother looked
up into a ball. By the side of his head lay his up from her needle, and seeing him, uttered an
pistolet, the grasp of his hand holding it loosely exclamation of joy, and going towards him to
in his sleep. The two men reminded Guilford meet him, made at the same time a gesture of
of two wild beasts he had once seen crushed and silence and warning.  14  x
reposing in a cage,      .                  "I am so glad you have returned, my dear,
Having surveyed the scene, he stepped across son," she said, as she led him t4pa seat. "Yon
the threshold and passed lightly intothe room. have been gone full eight hours."
He stood for an instant looking at the sallow  " It has been an eventful eight hours to me,
face of Strait-gate, who lay on the bed, and won- my dear mother.",
dering that so wicked a countenance could have  " I have been trembling lest you should have
a .soul quiet enough to sleep. As for Broad- come into collision with Lora Rudolph, at the
way, he saw in him one of those half devils, half castle. Did you see-the Lady Eate, my boy'?"
high        o common in Cromwell's army,   "Yes, mother, and all is as I would desire.

.1

THE

I will tell" you by-andby, when we are alone.
Those men in the other room must have an-
noyed you not a little."
" They did at first, but they soon drank them-
selves to-insensibility. But where is Anne, that
she did not come in with you ?"
" She is at the gate with Robin."
"Yes. He loves her, and I wish she could
return his attachment. She had best come in,
now you are at home ; but I sent her out, as the
soldiers got to be something rude of speech to-
wards her."A
"They had best keep their tongues under
civility," answered Guilford, "or I will show
them that there are men in England besides
Cromwell's myrmidons."
" Hist, Guilford ! They will hear you. As it
is, they do not suspect us of being opposed to the
government. But listen to me; I have some-
thing of moment to communicate to thee; and
for this I have been so anxious to have thee
come back."
"But first hear what will please you, my dear
mother. My interview with Lady Kate resulted
in her refusal to permit me to cease to think of
her, and it is decided that I am to seek my for-
tune in the world, and some bright day come
back to ask- her hand."
"Ah, my boy, fortune is fickle. But the Lady
Cathnrine shows a truly noble nature."
*I have no doubt-that I shall be able to win
some name that will make me less Qbscure, and
more worthy to ask her hand of-her noble father.
Would she wed me to-morrow, I am too proud
to become her husband as I am--a poor young
fisherman. I will win rank and name, and lay
them-at her feet. Because she loves me in my
humble state, shall I willingly consent that she
shall wed 'o  so lowly ? Shall I thus reward
her generous love ?"
"Thou art noble in mind, my boy," said his
mother, "and deservest her."
" Mother, thou hast heard of Red Hand ?"
"0, Red Hand, the noted sea warrior, whose
very name strikes such terror along the coast !
What of him, Guilford ?"
"Dost thou know his history ?"
"Nayd I do recollect that it is said-he was one
of King Charles's nobles, and that, when he was
to have been executed, he placed his hand be-
neaththe axe instead Of his head, and with the
other wrenched the weapon from the headsman's
grasp, and with it cut his way to the water-side
and escaped in a ship."

N.                  47

"This is ,r ly true."
" I know Crpnwellhas a reward for his head,
and therefore',
" You fa y ,lust be a pirate."
"I know i t- what he is. Men say he is
greatly to be fe *e4 He has burned full a score
of castles and toWi l 'the sea coast."
" These were t    .-places in which Crom-
well's minions d   laes, which, by flse
hood and wrong, th  hadXbbed loyal nobles.
I have seen this sea king]zidspoken with him,
mother."
" Spoken with Red Hand
" Yes; I have been on board hyvgesl, whipl
to-night ,was not two leagues fonthe a
opposite the village. He is a proper gentleman.
He is the Earl of Villiers, a true-hearted noble-
man, and friend of both the late king and Prince
Charles."
" Speak lower, for there are strange ears near
us."
"The two brutes are asleep, and I pray they
may not wake till morning. Yes, motlier,
Earl Villiers is a true English gentleman. He
commands a ship because he cannot command
a fleet. His wars are made only against the
usurper. His ship is the only remnantAof the
true British navy, and he the only British ad-
miral, as Charles, the wanderer prince, is, the
only British king. But these things will not
always be so. In a few days I slball, if nothing
more favorable turns up,, offer myself to,,,this
-admiral of the Red Hand, and win fame wf4 r
his flag."
"If this terrible captain be a true earl, who
only seeks the rights of his king, I do not say
aught against this, Guilford, save that I shall be
grieved to have thee leave my roof and my side.,
But mothers cannot always hope to have their
boys with them; and I hope to see you yet dis-
tinguish yourself."
"You will not be 'alone, mother. Anne will
remain, and if she marries Robin "-
" Marries Robin? I wish she would, indeed."
" There is little doubt of it from what I
saw to-night. They are lovers, or lovers never
were."
" That is good news at last. I knew she need
never look to feu."
" Look to me, mother Who ?"
"Anne. Bless me, how odd you have never
seen it in her eyes. She has loved you better
than cousin ought to love, Guilford."
"I was not aware of it. But now9,   oak


4TH=' "O       F   IEIMAN.

of it, I do recollect some things fhat make me
think you are right. But-Rob ill make her
far happier. They will mare f   .'live with
you, and you will hardly miss "} I will have
my boat repaired to-morrow      e it to you.
Has there been any excitement'in the village
to-night, early in the evening=hEave you heard
anything about'any of the tnpers having been
shot'?"
" Surely I did. FPugenough was made about
it. The troopers helx heard firing, and went
out, and after a lon-time came back, and, swore
dreadful oaths, and said some smugglers had
shot three of the  r party who were pursuing a
loyalist. jThy made great talk of it in their
cups, and swore dreadfully how they would on
the morrow have vengeance."'
" Smugglers they said, did they, mother'?"
" I believe so ; but do not raise, your voice so
loud; for I dare say we've been overheard in
half we've said by the poor gentleman, if by
chance he's awake."
Here the good dame cast her eyes up at the
trap in-the ceiling.
"What poor gentleman? What do you mean,
mother'?"
"Hush! the troopers'll hear you, and then
it's all up with him, be he peasant or prince,
gentle or simple. There is a man hid up in the
hemp loft !" she added, whispering close in his
ear, and' then clapping her fingers across his
mouth.- "Not a word. I fancy he is a loyalist.
Don't speak, and I'll tell you all about it, for
I want your advice to know what to do with
him."
"If he is a loyalist, I willaid him to the best
of my ability, mother. But when and how did
he come here?"
'"That I will tell you. You see, after you
went out, and had been gone a little while, the
two soldiers came in and invited themselves to
take up their quarters for the night. After eat-
ing their supper and drinking, they got up and
went out, as they said, to make a search'of the
remises, to see what out-houses, boats, hid-
inigplaces and such things, for concealing and
escaping in we had."
4The prying devils !"
"listi They had not gone out scarcely, be-
fore I saw a face looking in upon me at that
window. Before I could make out who it might
be, the window was raised, and in stepped a
stranger. He came so lightly to the floor, looked
so be       ly and suffering-like, and had al-

together such an appearance of weariness and
flight, that I at once felt my charity warm to-
wards him kindly ; pnd knowing how many good
men there are who are wanderers ih their own,
or what is worse,/foreign lands, I bethought me
this man might be one of them. The idea that
he was a robber or a criminal never once en-
tered my mind. He asked me in a voice that
was courteous and respectful, if I would conceal
him before the soldiers came back."
"Then he knew they were quartered here'?"
said Guilford, who had listened with the deepest
interest to her words.            y,
"Yes; for he had plainly been watching their
departure ; and, as they went out one way, he
came in another way, as I told you. I'instantly
closed this door, dropped the curtains, that no
one might see into the room, and pointing to the
ladder, told him to conceal himself at once in
the loft. He obeyed at once, and having given
him food and drink, I removed the ladder."
"Have yon spolgen with him since?"
"'Not a word. He is as quiet as the grave.
I think he must be asleep; -for he looked ready
to drop. Ygu should have seen what a white
hand he had."
" How old a man is he?"
" About thirty; but he looked pale and hag,
gard, and might notMave been so much."
"How was he drs'ed?"     .
" In a sort of grayish black, plain and coarse,
and much worn aid road soiled. His hair wa
jet black, and so were his eyes; and his manners
were those of a gentleman ; that I saw-at once."
"I would like to know who he is, mother,"
said Guilford, who had listened to all, she had
said with the liveliest attention. "He is without
doubt one of the prince's friends, who are now
hunted like wild beasts throughout the king-
dom."
" What if it should be the prince himself?"
whispered thegood dame, with a wistful look.
" It can hardly be; yet it is clear he is ex
pected to seek the coast, and should he do so,
he is likely to come pretty much as this stranger
has presented himself to you. Whoever he is,
he needs our protection, and his life may depend
on our care and discretion."
"What can be done'?"
" That must be reflected upon, dear mother.
It will not be safe for him to remain where he
is. If a search of the house should take place,
the loft will not escape their eyes. I must, how-
ever, first see him and know what 'he would
have."                   -   -

48 .

UILeORb's PLAN yOR ESCAPE.
Tnres speaking, Guilford returned into the loyal friends as I find you and the good atie
front room, where the two men still slept heavily are."
as before, and in the same postures. He then  These words were spoken in an under tone,
looked out of the door, and seeing Robin and but with a' cadence that pleased Guilford's ear,
Anne seated beneath' the arbor, quite oblivious, and attracted him at once to the stranger before
apparently, of the passing time, he softly re- beholding his face. Asking his mother for a
gained the room where ,his mother was, and light, he ascended with it, and bidding her re-
bolted the door which led between the two apart- move the ladder, he closed the trap and stood
ments.                                    face to face with his guest.
"Now, my dear mother, I want you to take a , The countenance he beheld was wholly nn-
seat against this door, and if the soldiers either known to him, but answered to his mother's
of them should wake and attempt to come in, description as that of a pale, harassed looking
tell them that it is your private room, and they young cavalier of thirty, with black hair and,
cannot be admitted. On no account suffer them eyes, and an intellectual expression.
to enter; and if they force the door, I will shoot  "Whosoever you may be,sir, you are a wel-
them down. I am going to have an interview  come guest beneath our humble roof," said Guil-
with this stranger, whose misfortunes have driven ford. "What can I do for you'? for I presume
him for shelter to our roof."            you are one of the prince's friends."
Thereupon Guilford replaced the ladder to its  "Yes, my dear youngman, and I have sought
usual place beneath the trap-door, and ascended the Sea-coast with the forlorn hope of obtaining
it. He tapped lightly upon the ceiling, and was passage in some fishing-boat to the French coast.
answered by another-rap equally low.      But I find that the coast is vigilantly guarded,
"Areyou asleep, sir ?" asked Guilford,  and in this very house are quartered some of
"No," answered the voice;, and the trap was Cromwell's troops,'
cautiously raised. "I know you are come to  "Yes, two drunken rogues, shaven like tnonks
me as a friend, for I have overheard your con- and bearded like Turks, now'sleeping off their
versation with your mother. I therefore let potations in the room below."
-  you up.without suspicion. I am inexpressibly  "This would be a favorable time ,  elu4e
thankful to find myself in the house of two such them if a boat could be had.pt a
fisherman ?"

CHAPTER XIV.


50

T..

"Yes, sir cavalier, but my only boat was to-
day, or rather yesterday, stoc*A and is not fit
to push off."
"I will give thee all the g4have, which is
one hundred louis, to purch   other fome."
" Thou wilt need all thy ged, sir cavalier. I
can obtain another boat ofaomrade, but"-
"But what, my young friend ?" asked the
stranger, who seemed tohanig on his words with
nervous eagerness.
" The difficulty is-to get off from the coast
unseen. Thered;:sre not only troops placed in
our houses, butthey are posted as sentries along
the streets, id have the beach' in full view for
miles. It would be almost impossible to get a
boat off with any chance of success."
. The stranger clasped his hands together with
an expression of anguish.
" So near liberty, and yet not to be able to
obtain it !"
"Does thy life pay the forfeit, sir, of thy cap=
ture ?" asked Guilford, whose heart was deeply
moved by his acute' distress.
" Assuredly, my friend."                 -
"And thou art a true friend of the prince ?"
"Ie,has none near."
" Then I will save thee if it be possible, by
aiding thee to reach the French shore. But the
prince, where is he?  Hast thou any tidings'o
him since he was seen last in Scotland ?"'
"lEe still wanders. Like me he seeks to find
shelter in France. Suppose I were the Prince
Charles himself, what couldst thou do for me, ii
I told thee I was really in thy hands ?"
"I would save thee or perish!" answered
Guilford; "and I will do all I can for one who
loves him and suffers for him. Here it is no'
safe for thee to remain till morning."
"Young man," .said the stranger, "if thou
savest me, the prince will not fail to rewar
thee."
" I ask no reward, sir cavalier, save success
I will ere long return to you. I will go and se
how I can best secure your safety."
With these words Guilford took leave of hi
guest, deeply interested in him, and opening th
trap-door, dropped lightly to the floor.
" Mother, he is a cavalier, and friend of th
prince, and his life is-forfeit if he be taken. H
brings no other news of Prince Charles that
that he is a wanderer like himself. Now I mus
get him out from here, and to the sea-side.
have resolved to try aid get him across th

FIs MAN.
" You will risk your own life, my son."
"Do not think of me, mother. I shall do
nothing rashly. Give me thy brown long gown,
and shawl, and hood."
" Here they are. What wouldst thou with
them ?"
"To hand them up to our guest to put on."
'Guilford suited the action to the word, by
rolling the articles in a bundle and passing them
up to the fugitive.
"Put these on, and wait till I knock thrice on
the trap, and then come boldly down. Now,
mother," he added, as the trap-door was once
more closed, and the ladder carefully removed,
"I want you to put on your other shawl and
hood, and walk out with me."
"Whither ?"
"It matters not, dear mother. Do not ask
me questions that I perhaps can't answer; but
if you will kindly do as I say, we may save the
young cavalier."
"I will be guided by you in everything, my
son," said she, putting onher shawl and hood.
" That is right, mother. These barbarians of
Cromwell's are still snoring. They sleep sound
as moles."
"I drugged their negus to make them sleep
and keep them quiet," answered his mother.
f   " That accounts for it. It is the more favorable
to us. Now take my arm and, come with me."
The good dame placed her arm in his, and
crossing noiselessly the room where the troopers
f were, they went out by the gate of the cottage.
Here they met with Robin and Anne, who hardly
realized how the night they had so lovingly
passed was wearing towards morning. They
t both started consciously as they saw dame Gra-
ham and Guilford.
"You've come at last, Guilford," said Robin,
I not knowing anything else to say.
"Yes; and I warrant me you were not over
. weary waiting for me. I want you, Robin."
e   " Anne, you had best go softly-in and remain
in the back room; if the troopers should wake
s up, you can bolt- the door."
e   " Let Anne wait here by the gate, mother.
You will not be away five minutes. Robin, go
e to your boat; place secretly three days' provis-
e ions in it, and put off aa expeditiously-as:you
n can, as if on a fishing cruise. Soon as you get
3t out half a mile, lower your sails and ,row back
I in the direction of the beach, rock, landing be-
e yond it on the castle side. There you will find
nie to take me on board. Do not delay, and bea

THE YOUNG
discreet and cautious; for the least imprudence
will create suspicion among the coast guard."
Robin .signified his readiness to do as his
friend Guilford had directed, and immediately
left the cottage gate and walked towards his
own cabin, a quarter of- a mile ,further east,
along the shore-curved street of the little 'port.
He was stopped by two troopers, who, satisfy-
ing themselves that he was a fisherman, and not
a prince in disguise, let him pass.  the door
of his own hut he found three of the gu rd seated
drinking ale, and eating rolls and dried fish.
He adroitly got them Into conversation upon
the comparative speed of boats and horses, and
drew them down to the cove, fifty paces off,
where his own smack lay, and got them to ex-
amining it, he the while descanting upon its
speed. He then proposed to show them with
what rapidity he could row it, saying: "As it is
near day, it is time I should get ready to go out
to fish; but first I will show you her mettle."
He then went in for his oars, and at the same
timefilled a bag with fish and bread, and took
a beaker of fresh water with him. These he
placed in-the boat before their eyes, trusting to
their absence of all suspicion that he had any
second purpose in view. At length, having got
all prepared, he loosed his boat and got to his
oars, and was about to row her out, when a
fourth, in the uniform of a sergeant, came up
and demanded what boat was putting off.
"A fisher's lad going off to cruise the day in
the channel catching fish," answered a trooper;
"and he has bet a hundred mackerel that his
boat, with two oars, can beat the best hunter in
England."
" He is a braggart," answered the sergeant.
"Bdt who has been in the boat and seen that
there is no Prince Charley hidden in the cuddle.
By the beard of Cromwell, it would hide two
men !"
"No one has searched," answered one of the
troopers.
The boat was detained and the cuddie; care-
fully examined, when, 'as nothing was , cov-
ered like a refugee, and Robin being ele  'the
only person on board, he was suffered to' put off.
His bungling rowing to and fro, however, as he
knew it would be, was laughed at by the sol-
diets, and having acknowledged that his craft
wag ti in trim, he hoisted sail, and told them
thaiwhen he'had caught the hundred mackerel,,
he would not fail to pay his bet. He was soon
rapidlyfleavig the shore behind, and the forms
of the soliers shon blended with the indistinct

P  ~ingMw.                          51
objects on the land. When he had gained half
a mile from*  beach, he lowered his two sails,'
and takg t;loars, pulled towards the point
nearly a ni   westerly, where Guilfdrd had
promised to I A, nd.
We now ret 'jto the young fisherman who
was so generou  ; about to attempt to save his
guest from the      of the -usurper. When
Robin took leave   'to go on the mission
we have 'seen him acco plish so successfully,
Guilford, with his mojker waning on his arm,
walked along the village strt in the direction
which led towards the castle  They soon came
to two troopers, who were standing in the street
acting as guards. The moonlight shone full
upon them, and in one of them Guilfor4 recog.
nized the soldier who had before challenged
him. As the young man and his mother drew
near, one of the men stepped across the way
and presented his broad-sword.
" What, pr y, is this, my fine couple !"' he
said, with a augh.
"This is  y mother; and, as for me, I told
you who I as some while ago," answered
Guilford, fir .
"Yes, Ifecollect thee now; but wemust see
thy face. We must not let any nospass' us
under cover. A woman's hood, before now, has
hid a man's beard."
Dame Graham put back her hood andshowed
him a dignified, but pale, matronly face, that
abashed his insolence.
"Pardon us, ma'am; but we 'must be strict."
"Can we pass on ?" asked Guilford.
"Whither ?"
" To the castle. There is a sick person there
who suffers, and your orders are not go strict as
to prevent passing to and fro on the land."
"No ; it is the sea we are to watch."
Guilford then went on a few steps, ansd when
beyond ear-shot, he said quickly to his mother:
"Pretend that thou hast forgotten the lint,
and go back as for it ; but instead of coming
back thyself, send the guest, telling him I wait'
here, and that he must join me and take my
arm without a word, in your place. They will
not a second time lift the veil."
"I now understand all," said his mother.
"Sir soldier, my mother would return a mo-
ment to the house for something," he said, re-
turning sere the two men stood. "Be quick,
dear mother, and I will remain talking..with
these brave soldiers."
The good dame hastened towards house,
leaving Guilford with the troopers.

ii


4,

CHAPTER XV.
SUoCESS O: G UIL1ORDs MANORtnE.

f Thtotr art a tall youth to be under thy moth-
er's eye still, young man," said the trooper who
M4 been chief spokesman. " Fishing must be
fool's pastime for a brave spirit as thine should.
be by thine eye. Why wilt thou not enlist in
the troop, and follow the fortunes of a soldier ?"
"My mother has only me, and if I should fall
in battle she would be desolate."
"We should be better weaned than to think
of mothers when our beards are grown, young
fallow. A man's mother is his country, and he
rightly obeys her when he takes up arms to deh
fand her against tyrahny." A pause.
"Come to the inn in the morn, where our
captain is, and thou shalt put thy name down
and be paid two gold nobles, and the horse and
armor of the' man who was shot early to-night
by one of the smugglers, shall be thine."
" I will see thy captain, it may be, and think
of thia, I would rather have a wider field than
this to act may part in."-'-
Ay, that thou oughtest, man. To-morrow
we are going on a fancy party to ferret out these.
smugglers or what not that rescued-the loyalist
last night, and shot that 'lion of the desert,'
evetg the brave trooper 'Despise not Prophesy-
) 3
"What loyalists"e-
"T is not. known for certain. That he

was one is clear, for he refused to drink to
Oliver's health; and he fought-like a tiger when
he was set upon, and ran like a dromedary when
he could fight no longer against odds. We
would have had him had he not been rescued by
a party of smugglers, as some say they were,
who got him off safe. Our captain swears he
was the famed Red Hand, the channel cruiser,
because his right hand was missing. But, for,
my part, the blood of one royalist is as red as
that of another."
"Dost thou expect to find smugglers on the
coast to-morrow ?" asked Guilford, whose eyes
were anxiously turned towards the gate of the
cottage,
" That maybe as it turns out. A little brush
with the rogue and a good deal of booty would
enliven these dull times."
At this moment Guilford's eyes were glad-
de -%by the sight of a female figure clad like
other , issuing from the cottage gate. IHe
ki  at a glance that it was not she, and his
heart bounded with hope and fear in contemp-
lating the advance of the disguised royalist.
The walk was wholly unlike that of his mother,
and by no means as graceful; but he huppd the.
soldiers, who had never seen her but once, would
not mark the difference.
"ood night, gentlemen ; I see my mother

a
,-         -  ,m
S   ,x
.;                         .
.w

I1

4
V

THEE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

55   '

'has got what she went after, and isreturning,"
said Guilford, walking forward to meet the dis-
guised guest.                           I
"You will not forget the gold nobles and to
see the captain at the inn ?" called one of the
soldiers.
"No.. I hope to meet you there also."  -
By this time he met the loyalist, and taking
his'arm beneath his own, whispered:
",Walk more softly, and keep hooded. There
is no, danger if you do not speak."
It Was a thrilling moment when Guilford came
up again to. the two men in order to pass
them., lie was, however, perfectly cool and
self-possessed.     ,
"We must stop again, mother, for doubtless
these brave soldiers will have to make thee show
thy face asecond time, to see that no;beard hath
grown on it within the last five minutes.",-
" Nay, young fellow, thou and thy mother may
pass, when thou wilt," answered the nearest sol-
dier, laughingly. " When' thou gettest to be a
trooper, thou wilt then learn to obey orders."
"I blame thee not, sir trooper," answered
Guilfordl; as he walked on slowlyin order to
keep,.at feminine moderation the tendency'of his
-companion _to make rapid, strides of it along.
At every yard whibh separated him from- the two
soldiers his-heart beat lighter and his breath drew
freer. At length, after walking on about five
minutes,:andwhen he could scarcely distinguish
.the formspf the two;men from:the black posts
to which the, fishermen secured their boats, he
said, in a tone of joy:
Now, sir cavalier, you may speak. We are'
safe, at least for the present. , You can look out
of thy hood."..           ,            .
The;cavalier whom -dame Graham   had so
fromptly-and kilfully put in her own place,
then;threw partly back-r hood, and looked
around him, but not' before pressing the young
fisherman's hand inboth of his, and saying :"
",haypa reward-thee ! Thou hast done this
well and faithfully, and with remarkable courage.
1 was;never in more imminent peril of capt ge ;
and yet, under thy managing guidance, widgo,
littlegreasp to fear. What lofty castle is this ?"
he asked,:'as his eye fell;upon the elevated towers
and, battlements' of"Castle. Vane, beneath the,
shadowfof whch he ,W4s walking.
" Well do I know the family. Never was a
more lgyal subject than Lord Vane. But rumor
- says hin spnise Cromwell's tool."

'

" Yes, so I have heard," answered Guilford,
whose glances were continually scantlning the
water, searching:for Robin's little bark, which r
yet did not appeariih sight.
The cavalier alsifturned his eyes wistfully on
the sparkling wave ,and paused to contemplate-
them for a moment.
" 0, road to liberty yet a more insurmount-
able walk than if thou wert built of adamant,
high as heaven!"
"Do not stop; my lord. We must still hasten
forward; for though the last guard of troopers
ijss been passed in this direction, yet our'strata-
gem may be detected, and pursuit made."
" I need no inducements to nove on, my true
and faithful deliverer," answered the ro list ;
"but I am something wearied, having walked for
many days, and laid abroad of nights, and h4d
little food."
" I pity thy distresses, sir.,
"I hope fortune will one day enable me to
reward' you," answered the. stranger, with a
grateful tremor in his tones. "But Ianst solicit-
ous lest, harm should happen'to thy tiother for
the part she has.taken."
" No ; it was known to no one'that-you Were
in the house; and I instructed her not te suffer
herself to be seen until.after' sunrise, lest indeed,
by chance, the two troopers should question her
how she got back unseen, and so place heroin a
dangerous position."'
" That was judicious and thoughtful in you.
I will therefore not suffer' my fears to. be awak.
ened about her. But when I know that upon
wvhomsoever aids me I am bringing danger, "I
sometimes feel like giving myself up to :my fate
before'l will involve anymdre /kind and noble
hearts in assisting me to escape. We have here.
a barrier ! How shall we surmount it I", he
suddenly demanded, upon finding the beach ter-
minate.
"Here is a boat, my lor," said Guilford, who
gave the stranger this title of respect, judging
from his manner; and that he was a partizan of
the prince, that he must be noble ; "we will en-
ter it and row around it."  '
Upon their reaching the other side Guilford
with an exclamation of .pleasure, pointed sea-
ward.        '''
"A boat!1 0, that I were so happy ag'to be
on board of it, with its head pointed tow  '
France "' was the ,exclamation of the wan  y
with clasped hands.-
"I think it is the boat L ordered to rad'


54'              TIM rou~ro  sRa

and meet us here," answered Guilford. " When
it gets a little nearer I can tell.".
"And you have perfected your plan so far as
to 'provide a boat ! Ah, this  t more than I
hoped. When I saw this elif, I believed you
were seeking some secret cavar wherein to con-
ceal me ; and my heart was heavy with the
thought of more delay,.nd confinement and
anxiety before I should kiss the blessed sands df
France !"
" It is Robini's boat. .I know it now by the
white tops to its masts."
"And is Robin's boat that you sent for to em-.
bark us in ?"
" Yes, my lord. Robin is a youth, and sup-
ports himself by fishing. He is my truest friend,
and can be trusted."
" I know it, if he is thy friend. It seems a
brave, strong boat, with sails."
"It has crossed the channel in the wildest
weather, my lord."
" Then my hour of safety seems to have come
at last. This little skiff, which holds but two,
and scarce floats for leaking," he added, pointing
to the small boat in which they had paddled
round the rock; "this I would have ventured in,
rather than not have attempted it. To die ex-
erting one's self for liberty, is better than to live
as I have lived the past fifty days. 0, young
man, you know little of the sufferings I have en-
dured. But the sight of this bounding bark
makes me forget all!"
"I trust, my lord, that- before noon you will
be safe where you wish to be."
"Thanks, thanks, my friend. I pray that if
this blessing be granted me, it be given soon to
the-poor friends and wanderers I leave still be-
hind."
" Thou meanest the prince, and the four or
five nobles who hold to him."
" They did hold to him till they were com-
pelled, for his safety to leave him, and each seek
a different route to the coast."
"If, after I safely place thee in France, I can
return unsuspected, my lord, I will do all in my
power to get the rest over. In particular would
I be happy to be the instrument of saving the
prince."
"And wherefore in particulur, my young
friend '" asked the noble, who was seated on a
rik, watching thoT advancing fishing boat.
" Frankly, my lord, I will tell thee. Thou
didst o   ear my conversation with my mother,
and -n  'iot be told that I love a high-born

maiden-even the daughter of the lord of this
castle."
" And I would swear thou art worthy of her."
" I am too proud to offer her a fisherman for
a husband. If I could aid the prince, perhaps
he would take me into his service."
" But he is poor, and has nor men nor arms,.
coffers nor coin, young man."
"He will one day, I am confident, sit on the
throne of his martyred father. He is too deeply
seated in the hearts of the English people to re-
main long out of the seat of the kingdom."
"By the roodI thou speakestlike a prophetI"
,exclaimed the noble, starting to his 'feet, and
gazing with admiration upon the young man.
" I pray that thy words may come true. And if
the prince come to his own, thou shalt not be
forgotten. He who has served one of his friends
serves him. I will take care that thy good ser-
vice to me this night shall not be forgotten.
Would that England had ten thousand young
men with hearts and hands as loyal as thine."
At this crisis the little bark drew so close that
Guilford recognized Robin, who, shipping his
oars, steered the boat with what impetus his row-
ing had given it, directly alongside the rock.
"Thou hast well done, Robin, and in good
time; for I see the dawn is breaking. Now, my
lord, step into the boat, and the next land thy
foot touches shall be that of France."-
" Amen, my friend," answered the noble, as
he leaped into the boat and stood in the stern.
"Farewell, poor England1 One of these days
thou wilt take to thy bosom gladly the children
that thou now drivest from thee."
Guilford saw that tears came into his eyes,
and this emotion endeared him still more to him
for he saw that he possessed all the sensibilities
that became a man. He now assisted Robin in
hoisting the sails, foithere was a six knot
breeze from the northwest, and taking the helm,
while Robin was entrusted with the charge of
trimming the canvas, he steered away from/the
castle rock and lay his course at first south by-
west, in order to Ijeep from being seen from the
village when they should clear the rock.
When they had got out about ffty yatds, and
were sailirig along smoothly, the nobleman *as
seen by Guilford to sink upon his knees and re-
main some -minutes in prayer. Herthen rose,
and embracing his deliverer, he called Robin and
said-
"Let me take thee by the hand. I owe thee
much also, and must owe thee more before I

THE YOUNG
reach France. I am told thou art the friend of
this brave young man."
"I love Guilford as a brother," answered
Robin, with honest warmth.
Suddenly a voice called to them from the
shore-an eager but suppressed voice, its tones
being doubtful and yet thrilling, as if fear and
hope impelled the speaker.
" The boat ! Art thou fishermen ?"
"Yes," answered Guilford, as he discerned the
figures of two men in the mouth of a sort of
gorge that was at the westward of the castle
rock.
" Come to the shore and take us on board,
and we will pay thee well."
"I fear that it is a lure," said Guilford.
"I think I recognize the voice," said the
stranger. "Hold ! Let me speak."
" Nay, niy lord, you may betray yourself. I
will hail them. Who are, you, and where do
you wish to go ?"              -
"Land, and we will tell thee," answered
another voice.
"I know them !" cried the stranger to Guil-
ford, in earnest excitement, laying his hand on
his shoulder. ",They are two of the prince's
friends. Will you take them '"
"Willingly. Think you the prince is one of
them V'
"IWe may hear from him through them, my
young friend. Steer at once towhere they stand,

FISHERMAN.                             55
for delay may be fatal to them with so many
enemies about."
Guilford at once ran the smack to the little
cove in the land where the two men stood. On
coming near he saw from their torn apparel and
.haggard air that they were fugitives. They were
so impatient to quit the land, that the boat had
hardly touched the rock before they both sprang
on board.
" Take us across to France, and we will repay
you well, for we have gold," they said, talking
like men who had life at stake.
The stranger, who still wore the female dress,
and who had purposely concealed himself behind
the sail, was now seen by them. They stared at
him, and then took their seats, as if too weary
to stand. They then looked earnestly at Robin
and Guilford.
" You are fishermen, then ?" said the eldest of
the two, inquiringly.
"Yes, sir."
" Will you take us over to Normandy '"
"It is !a dangerous trip, sirs, but as I amn
over, you shall have passage."
" How fortunate. We will give you gold."
" I am well paid, gentlemen."
"But willyou take this woman over V"
"Yes," answered uilford ; snd would bare)
added, "she is a fugitive disguised also," but for
a pressuA upon the arm by the stranger,-as a
hint from him to keep his secret.

64

r     i                      ,
,    i
*     '
r{G      .Y
"     " K+

i'


CHA PTER XV I

}  c               r  '~W HNO  tHE  rUoivit '1t  'G'VP.
Wz now see our youthful hero, Guilford,    "I knew, my lord," said Guilford, "that'
once ir setting sail for'the French side of the fugitive friends of the prince were expectedon
channI, 'with thrie royalists. It has been an the coast, ii. short time, and knew you to be
e nn liwahty4our hours tolnt, and has done of them."
nioresto develop his true character than llthe  "Yes, doubtless, =for e carry our'fortunes'in
previous events of his life. All at once he felt our rags and visages. But it is surprisig and
that he had merged from the obscure and hum- providential that we should have found aboat so
ble village fisher, to be a person of no little con- soon, and one that would receive us. 0, that the
sideration, if he was to be judged by the part he prince could be as fortunate."  -
had played. But he was not elated. He secretly  " Hast thou heard of any royalist escaping in
hoped that this turn in the tide of his affairs a boat within a day or two ?" asked the younger
was to lead him on to fortune.             cavalier, who was a fair young man, with a blue
When the smack, which Robin had named the eye and a Scottish physiognomy.
'Pretty Anne," had got out a mile, the day had " There was a brave man escaped yesterday
begun to brighten up so clearly in the east that from the village after eat peril. It was at sun-
the moonlight paled before it. Soon the light set or a little after."
of the broad morning filled the air, and when  " Ah,;it must have been the prince," exclaim-
they were a league from the land the -sun rose in ed the elder ; " for he must have reached the
dazzling splendor out of the waters. Cheerful- coast about that time."
ness sat upon the haggard faces of the two fugi- "No, it was the Earl Villiers, whom they call
tives as they saw receding the shores of England, Red Hand," answered Guilford.
and the distinct blue line of France grow more  " The Earl Villiers !" exclaimed theistrangOr
distinct.                                  in a tone that, coming from the woman's hood,
"Young man," said one of them, whose beard made the two cavaliers start with surprise, and
and'locks'were mingled with gray, "you will be stare with doubt both at Guilford and his dis-
remembered by us to the latest hour of our lives. guised passenger.
We must take your names, that our friends may  " We are betrayed 1" cried the young Scot,
know them, and love the two fisher's lads who with a flashing eye, as he drew a long, glittering
aided us to escape from death to safety."  knife.

T   : IrOUNG' ISIE1AMAN.

..           t.
r           t
i    .                 v

"There is no treason here," said Guilford.
" This person is also a'fugitivein disguise, whoi
I was taking over whei you hailed' me. "fhj
wishes to conceal himself from you , enhit jre-
vent it. But I trust'jou arewell knwn to each
other."
" There needs no more disguise or conieel.
ment, my friends, all," exclaimed'the straliget
throwing back his hood, and extending a hand
to each of the fugitivess'' 'Algerno',*elhmie!
Catesby, I embrace you again !"
"My prince !"'criedthe' elderly dble,'kneel-
ing and kissing the hand extended to hinwhile
Catesby pressed his knees'and bathed hUs hands
with-tears of joy.
" Heaven be praised! Once more 'we meet,
and in safety !"
"I would have madd myself known to ro, my
trusty friends, but I wished to defer ithtillasdi
ing, that I might then'take' my young friesilby
surprise, and let him  know that' he had indeed
saved Prince Charles ! This is a happy nineting
for us after all our sufferings together'".
" Too much joy ! too much joy!' That we
should find thee in the very boat In whicitwe
have taken shelter. This ddy Crohiwell's hatred
has forever lost its victini."
Guilford had witnessed this 'revelation of the
ptince to his partners in dangers nVfii it, with
amazement. He stood beholding him without
power to utter a word. A half formed idea that
all his hopes were now in the budding, and that
Lady Kate would yet be his, danced bewilder-
ingly through his mind. Robin stood with open
mouth, in wonder and delight.
"Nay;my friends," said Prince Charles, " you
must not be shut out from being partakers of all
this joy. You have, you find, had your wish
gratified, and have 'the prince' in your boat."
"Ana I will save thee or die, my prince !"
exclaimed Guilford, kneeling and kissing his
hand. " Tsis is the happiest and proudest mo-
ment of my life."
Robin also came forward and saluted the ex-
cited monarch, and all was joy and intense ex-
citement.
While the little vessel with its precious freight
was dancing on its way, Guilford directed Robin
to bring up the 'provisions from the cuddie, and
the prince and his two lords made a royal feast
of it, with such appetites as long fasting invariably
lends to both king and peasant.
The sun was an hour high when they had all
got through their morning's repast, and then

I

Guilford urged the prince to take ide posee
in oie of the' be-ths irtlia srdall c~binu''
"'his is well pijposet, mif ydnriie &amp;,
he said ; " fair I lac dliaa' litf6 tibepfi the
week past."
Lea Inthe 'helm°in{ch trgo 'o  bini; Guil-
ford went' into llhe u'ddid'add Aff5dif'Wseell
as he could the cot of di sie-'d' fr'lir pirice,
find' when hei   re h    i n916   tby its
roughness, the'later sidfsherfidfly' 0  ' '
"Do not say one-word, yin  dehr 'Gilford fo'
I have learnedto sleeias hard'a'tilW 'oku
of ny subjects. T am used to "rough Tre and
rough lodgings. 5utikdep dtwatch, acid do
not let any large resselhre  e'tbonedr  Cs.
me if any war-Ship is;e eh in lfyquarter.'!
'Guilford; having sebin Prihice' Charles li d'wn
to rest, retuinedtb the d'ek. -'lietes'"bfthz
two e*iles beamed iron' h~i    Agi-h8t
siniles'as h e'iappiasfA.  o   w       m
" You are the 'happiesr'and izistto6bfvdt
Englishman that this day lives;'yiignri ii;"
said Lord' Algernon, siilig ; 1' for fah hve
under your charge the ; prince on whos'"f t
depends the Tate'df Esi laridP'
"I am'happier than I can' presss" aridAeri
Guilford, resuming 'the heird, whild&amp;lh h  aro
order to Robin'to trim the'shtets!" " 'A 4 e*
now a full third of the  arAuseliedtr
my lords," he aNdded; "*il 9fb    Nt part
of the French coast the prince would likO to be
landed upon ?"
" To the east of Cape de la Hague, and as
near the Cherbourg landing as may be," an-
swered the Scottish lord. "We have friends
there in waiting for many weeks."
" The wind is not exactly fair for making
Cherbourg," answered Guilford, looking at the
sails and then at the sky; " but by tacking and
running west by north four or-five miles, we can
then go about and make it towards night."
" Is there no danger that we shall be interfered
with by the channel ships of war that are hover-
ing on the coast to watch against the prince's
escape ?" asked the grey-bearded earl, with some
solicitude, as he cast his eyes about him and saw
four or five sail of vessels at various distances,
some of them between them and the distant line
of the coast of France, and one directly stern,
as if in chase.
" Are there ships cruising on the watch, my
lords ?" asked Guilford, changing color. " I
did not imagine danger save from the coast guard
on shore."


58                   THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

" There is great danger yet," answered both j by ; "for in the highlands the shepherds on the
noblemen. " An order has been sent to all the hills can often tell men of different clans at a
captains of the vessels of war to be vigilant in distance long before they can distinguish the
bringing to and examining every boat that plaid of their tartans. What vessel is that to
- crosses the channel."                     the west I It looks large, like an armed ship."
"I did; not know of this," answered Guilford.  "It is a ship of war of large size," answered
He then stood up in the stern of the fishing Guilford ; "but she is standing northward, and
vessel, which being but five tons burthen, did not, is bound into Portsmouth. She will hardly
elevate him but three or four feet above the level trouble us."
of the sea, and with a keen nautical eye scanned " Then this vessel at the east, which seems to
carefully the encircling horizon, commencing be standing directly down to us ?"
north and returning to the same point.        " That I am more doubtful about. She is too
" What do you make out these vessels to be ?" far off to be well made out, and as her masts
asked Lord Algernon Dudley, the old noble, range in a line, I can't tell whether she is a ship
trusting to the skill of the young sailor in mat- or brig. But from the squareness of her yards
ters of which he himself had little experience, and the way she settles in the water, I am afraid
" The vessel astern, my lords, is a ship, that she is an armed cruiser."
has just come out of Portsmouth. I saw her an  At these words the two nobles looked very
hour ago,.between the Isle of Wight and the naturally anxious, and watched her, with close
main, standing down. She is a Norwegian tra- attention. There were two other vessels visible
der by the shortness of her yards and square in the far south-western board, but at too re-
make of her bows."                         mote a distance to be made anything of, save
"You observe closely," said the young Scot- that Guilford was positive they were large, three
tish lord,   ,                             masted vessels.
" Yes ; we fishermen, passing our lives-on the  The wind was blowing a five knot breeze,
channel, and accustomed to the sight of vessels from W. S. W., and the little vessel, kept close-
of all nations, soon discern the difference be. hauled, went steadily on her way, steering as
tween, those of one country and another, and near as possible for the, Cape of the Hague, now
are able to tell them a long ways off."    forty miles distant, in a south by west direction.
"Yes, I can understand it," said Lord Cates.

4

r

1

CHAPTER XVii.
A DESPERATE STRATAGEM FOILED.

LEAVING the little fishing smack, which held
the destinies of England, to dance along over
the waves of the channel on its way to the coast
of Normandy, we will follow the adventures of
another one of the characters of our story.
When Red Hand the earl had regained his
own ship, and, after the severe execution of the
sentence upon Lord Rudolph, had dismissed the
yacht, he gave orders to his lieutenant in com-
mand to steer westward until sunrise, an4 then'
call him.
"I have not had one hour's sleep since I left
London," he added to the officer, " and I must
have a little rest."
Ue then went'to his state-room, where he found
Edward, the useful and handsome officer AV
ready introduced to the reader, engaged incopy-
ing papers. Upon the entrance of the earl, the
youth looked up and fixed upon the earl his
large dark eye, which had as much light in it as
a woman's, avid said:
" My lord, I know not how to contain my joy
at your safe return once.moreto the ship, know-
ing, as I alone did, the perilous errand on which
you went."
"I had a narrow escape of -it more than once,
Edward," answered the earl, throwing himself
upon a cushioned settee.
" And 'what success, my lord ?" asked the

youth, in a tone that slightly hesitated, as if he
feared he ventured too far to make so open an
inquiry.
" Cromwell's -head is still on his shoulders,
and he is free to ride on England's neck till a
more lucky day for us. Would you like to hear
the particulars V"
"Yesj my lord ; I will first copy these two re
maining lines of the letter you have written to
the Duke of Orleans, to be'left at Cherbourg."
The youthful secretary then busied himself a
minute till he had completed the task allotted to
him, and then placing his pen, by hit side on the
polished Bragiban table, placed himself in an
attitude of listening. This young man, whose
beauty, as we have said, was almost feminine,
was about twenty years of age, slight in figure,
but tall, and gracefully made. A brown mous-
tache was just beginning to darkenhis well cat
upper lip, and his rich and shining brown locks
curled short about his circular and snow-white
neck. His brows were also brown or hazel col-
ored, like his hair, and exquisitly arched over a
pair of large, well expanded eyes of the clearest
gray. Hisnose was 'erian, straight, and with
thin nostrils-generally a mark of high birth.
When he spoke, rows of even teeth, as dewy and
translucent as pearl, were visible. His hands
were, as symmetrical as nature could :hae  *


ETi YOUNG PISRERMAN.81

moulded them, and his whole air and tone were
striking and distinguished. There was an ex-
pression of sadness upon his face that seemed to
be abiding, and to derive itself from a source
deeply hidden in the heart. With all his beauty,
there was a total absence of consciousness of it,
and with all his womanly elegance there was no
lack of the proud and manly bearing of his sex.
Between him and the earl there appeared to ex-
ist a friendship equal and confidential, and
which seemed to take no count of the difference
in their years. The attire of the young secretary
was a suit of black velvet, with here and there a
plain gold button, and a silver hilted sword,
worn in a polished Arabian belt at his side.
"The night on which I landed at Hastings,"
said Red Hand, " twenty days ago to-day, I
found the three men ready with horses to take
me to London. I was nearly two days reaching
the city, not wishing to ride too fast, lest I
should draw attention. I wore my disguise as a
Puritan conventicle preacher, and had much
honor paid me at several times, by Cromwell's
people. At length, safe in London, I put up at
the house in the Strand where Lord Layton and
Germain were lodged.    They received me
warmly, and asked where. I had landed and
where left my ship. I told them that I had left
my vessel off Hastings, but that, by my orders,
she was to-run to the coast of France and hover
about Germany until the twentieth, when she
was to stand over the Sussex side and wait my
orders, or take me on board, as you have done
this night."
" Youhave read the report of our cruise, my
lord; during your three weeks' absence ?" ob-'
served the young lieutenant.
"Yes, I have looked it over, and find you have
had too many handsome fights with Cromwell's
vessels; but one of these I heard of before I left
London, and I assure you it made me proud of
iny'gallant friends 'on board, and my noble ves-
sel. 'One would have thought, by the way the
Londoners talked about your sinking the par-
liament ship Nestor, that I had been a Moorish
buccaneer and;lived by pirating en the world.,
But Crom-well   ouli have, all true 'loyalists
branded'as' pirates and robbers. Thereare no
holestaba in 'igland now-a-days, but those
who :hdve Feropped-drowns and -pray by the
league. Bt-to my 'story. After Ithad been a
week in London we had All our plans laid. Un-
der t'he disguise of a coal' heater, I had more
than once stood within ten feet of Cromowell, as

he passed through the palace yard, where I was
heaving coal, having managed to get employed
there for this purpose. Under the disguise of a
baker, I entered the palace, and, as a postman,
I placed letters in his very hand. All these
opportunities I sought to see him and learn his
habits and hours, that we might know what day
and hour to fix upon our plan for carrying him
off. At length I discovered that every Tuesday
and Saturday it was his custom to embark on
the Thames to sail up to -  palace, there to
be present -at a council which he had convoked
for the purpose of settling upon a new code of
justice for the commonwealth, it being his inten-
tion to adopt the Justinian code, if possible, over
the common law. We resolved that we would
have everything ready to lay hands upon him
when he should return, from one of these excur-
sions, which we ascertained would be towards
twilight.
"I had already obtained a swift barge with two
masts and eight oars, and had placed over her a
deck that would conceal twelve men. This
barge we had placed under a warehouse that
belonged to a trusty loyalist. The eight oars-
men were selected by me from  a scoie of the
young nobles who'are living in London in'dis-
guise and poverty, ready' to enter' upon any en-
terprise that may bring back the king; byderoy-
ing the usurper.  The twelve aien concealed in
the' deck were' all 'born lords and-barons;half
Scotch and half English."
"(Each equally anxious to share the perilid
the glory !"
"X es. At length the afternoon, four, days
ago, arrived. One by one, by different' routes,
the lords and gentlemen reached the rendezvous,
entered the boat and concealed themselves, with
arms in their hands, under the deck. I was the
last person there, and went accompanied by'the
French lieutenant, whose ship was waiting' off.
the mouth of the Thames 'to' receive ns .At
four o'clock: Isaw the protector embark in'his'
state barge, rowed by twelve rten. Ht;sat jh
the stern, surrounded by six or seven of his ce i,
for he holds court and carries statg like a crowned
king. In the bow were eight'soldiers of his-bdy
guard, armed with harquebuses. At abotithslf
an hour before sundown I saw his barge -half'
mile off, descending the river. It was returning
earlier'than we expected, but on consulting with
the lords, we decided to attack it in open sun-
shine, and trust to the swiftness ofdur barge to
escape down the river 'with our prize."

"It was a very bold enterprise,'my lord."
" One mtst do a, bold thing who would at-
tempt to make 'Cromwell--prisoner. Standing:
-upon the pier, I watched the descending barge':
until it had come nearly opposite our lurking
place, when, lowering myself into my boat, I
said:
""My friends, now is our 'time! -'Oars, all
give way and launch out into the' river.'
"IThe next moment we shot out from beneath
the arch of the old pier, and steered with foam-
ing bow and leaping oars straight for' the state
galley. The helmsman of it, seeing us about to
cross' his bows,:'hailed us and ordered me to back
the oars! 'But not heeding him, I directed my
'boat's hdws'obliquely, so as'to'strike the barge
about half way between her beam and cutWater.
The shock, as I ground along her sides, mowing
down the whdle bank:of oars, was so great as to
stave in the bows of the galley and break'the'
forward :knees of 'my own boat.1
"To arms aind board'!'I shouted, in a voice
of thunder.  '
" The next moment my deck was alive with
armed risen,' who leaped into 'the galley and
swept her forecstle.- Sword in hand, I pressed
aft, with lords McDonald and McFergus, to
where Crotawellistod,;calling upon his soldiers
to rally and fire upo us. Elsidwn s cord was
in 'his hand, andiss I 'approached; he threw him-
self into an attitude of a lion at bay.
""You are in'  prisonerr, Oliver Cromwelll'
said I; leaping'toWards 'him  'Give' up-your
sword !'     t    .
"'He who would have my sword must take
it !' he answered, with a firmness that made' me
respect the man's bravery.
'Idid not wait a second time to be invited,
but{droSsing 'blades with him, was on the eve of
- getting ihe' ilsastery, for I once had his sword en-
tangled in the folds'of any coat, when his friends,
recovering from their panic, fought in his .de-
fence likegood fellows, and his harquebuses did
such good'service, that wa wre finally-compelled
to retreat to our own boat, 'half of us wounded,
and abandon the enterprise upon which tonihili
time and talent had been ex'pendedI . lsliould
have rallied my Ipartf andree'wed the attack,
but for the-sight of' threelbarges of tto' which
I saw pulling to the' protector's 'aid; from 'the
shore' Sowe got off ald'nade the best oftour
way down the river, chased'by two-of the'barges.
We should inevitably have been taken, if night
soon coming on'had-nOt'befriended "us. 'Under

cover of it we mingled among the numerouss
boats plying up and cown-the river, and landing
on the south side of the Thames, about'four
miles below London, we found oir=way-to an
Inn, kept by-aii old king's' mi,whob ,gao  "s
cheer and lodging, and bound up the wounds of
those who had been hurt. Here I remained 'In-
til the next night, when, hearing that Prince
Charles had certainly been seen in Mid England,
making his way.in disguise towards the  Sussex
coast, I resolved to regain my vessel aid watch
to givehim succor. Leaving nay poor lordadis-
comfited but not-in despair, and with a second
plot fairly hatched out.before I lft' the Inn, I
took my way across the country on' fdot,'for: I
had learned from our host that our daring, open
attack upon Cromwell, had filled'all ,  dodd
with, amazement, and that the protectorL hrld
given strict orders to guard all the roads, and
look out especially for the outlaw Red Hand,"the
pirate earl."
"He knew you then,'niy lord ?"!
"He had reason to know me well. Besides;
I shouted my war cry, ' A Villiers I A Villiers4'
as we charged him on his barge, Ihad;thdre-
fore, to be very' cautious in crossing frbant, n-
don to the coast,Iand travelled chietyilathd
night ; and when by day I walked,'I.keptiofthe
hills, far away from the roads', 'At'lingtli, last
night I reached 'the-little fishing'port of:Brithelst
mane, and famished and 'thirsty, and ,deeming
myself out of reach of all dangeriin:that obscure
places I entered the inn to refresh'xmyself 'But
as I have told you, a swarm of, Cromwel1's'lo'
custs soon came in, and Ihad to-make my escape
the best way I could. To young :Guilford Gra
ham I owe my life and present security,and if it
is ever in my power to.serve him,:may Ilosd my
other hand if I forget to do it."
" What an unfortunate result, my lord, of ydur
well-planned scheme to take the unrper,"ahid
Edward Percy. " If you had succeeded, Prined
Charles, instead of: flying'from England; would
have entered London in triumph."
" Yes; but we will bideour time.: The young
king will yet git inshis father's throne. Ofthia
I feel as -sure as if it had been made known tk me
by a revelation from heaven."
"My lord, I feel-soo There seems to. be a+
seventh'sense in us; which scholars do not takes
note of in their philosophies. It is that sense of
being assured that a 'certain thing yet inffature
will come to' pass."= "            r-, ,
" .understand you. It is so."

A' r

60                THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

l t s


THE YOUNG
" When the noble marquis, my father, was led
to the scaffold, I had a feeling that he would not-
be executed then; and after he was remanded to
prison and had his second trial, Ithen felt allthe
dread certainty that he would die. The result
verified my sensations."
" The same feeling which you describe I have
experienced. Even now I cart say with acer-
tainty as positive as if Iwereinspired, that Prince
Charles will not fall into the hands of his foes,
but ere long reach France in safety. Nay, I have
a presentiment that it will not be long ere you
and I shall behold him in security."
" I earnestly pray, my lord, that your wishes
may be fully realized."
"You mean that my eighth sense may not
deceive-me," responded the earl, laughing. "But
my dear Edward, I have a rare romance to tell
thee."
" Ah, my lord !"
" Yes. This young Guilford Graham, with
his handsome face and fine eyes, has captivated
no less a personage than the fair Lady Catharine
Vane."
" Impossible, my lord."
"Nothing more true, Edward. And as to its
being impossible, there is nothing more possible,
when two young hearts come together and are
found to be of kindred mould. How he man-
aged first to win her heart, is to me a mystery ;
but as he lives at the foot-of Castle Vane, I
doubt not they have been thrown together in
some way very naturally, and what with his rev-
erence for her rank and respectful homage, and
her admiration of his person, and perhaps grati-
tude for rustic civilities, they got to losing their
hearts to each other. But be that as it may, they
are lovers, and she loves quite as enthusiastically
as he does."
" I like the young man-I am grateful to him
-I respect his courage-but for him to aspire
to-"
" Tat, tut, my dear Edwardi The days of
chivalry are filled with such real romances of life.
A humble lover and high-born maiden are the
theme and and burden of half the ballads."
" That is true. But-"
"I have however, something to add that will
make youlike the young man's honor. It would
seem he has lately awakened to the practical view
of his romantic attachment, and last night he
was on the way to see the lady to release her
fromall love vows, and tell her that he felt that
they never could be united, holding such opposite

FISHERMAN.

positions in society. It was on thiserrand he
saw me beset and gave me such good aid. And,
oddly enough, on board my ship he finds the
Lady Catharine.. They had an interview, which
I chanced to overhear, which resulted in a refu-
sal on her part to listen, like a noble girl as
she is, to any such sacrifice of his happiness on
his part, and to her consenting to wait for him
until he shall achieve a name and fame that
will give him some pretensions to sue for her
hand."
"And this compact stands ?"
" Yes. And be assured that we shall yet hear
of this young man in some honorable and daring
exploit. He has it in him, and he has a prize to
win that will nerve his arm and carry him to his
object through every danger."
"I like him well, my lord ! He is certainly
deserving of her if she loves him."
" I- knew you would like him, and thereforeiI
have told you this. It is my intention to seek
him out at an early day, as soon as the prince
shall have got safely to France, and then give
him employment in charge of the vessel and ex-
pedition which is planned for another attempt to
get possession, if possible, of the person of Crom-
well."
" I was in hopes, my lord, that in this new ex-
pedition I should not be overlooked."
" I did promise to give you some opportunity
of distinguishing yourself, Edward. But you
are too useful to me. I would have you near
me ; and besides, I wish from Cherbourg to send
you with a message to St. Lo to my fair daugh-
ter."
Here-the young secretary blushed and'looked
pleased.
"Besides, wilt thou not, for love's sake, give
my young friend Guilford a chance of winning
a name that will give him the prince's favor,
and thus open a way to his advancement in the
world?"
"I gainsay it no further, my good lord," an-
swered Edward, with a cheerful smile.
" Hast thou finished those despatches for
Paris ?"
" Yes, my lord."
"Seal and address them. But first let me see
the letter to the French king; for it is important
that there be no error in it."
The earl took the paper and began reading in
a low, audible tone, as follows
" Your .moat christian majesty will be pleased
to learn that our august Prince Charles, since

THE YOUNG

the disastrous defeat of his forces near Worces-
ter, forty days ago, has hitherto eluded the efforts
of Cromwell to take his person captive. I have
certain information to convey to your majesty
that he is hoveringnear the English south coast,
and will embrace the first safe opportunity for
embarking across the channel to find that safety
in your dominions which your majesty;through
me, has so courteously offered to him. It is to
be ardently hoped that the prince will reach the
French coast ere many days.".
The earl continued to read on for a few lines
further, but in a less audible manner, and then
immediately returning the letterto the secretary,
he said:
" It is correctly copied and fairly writ.
Seal."
"You have forgotten to sign it, my lord."
" True."
The Earl Villiers then took a pen in his left
hand and made a capital V, after which he placed
a seal that, he took from his sword hilt, upon
some wax that Edward had previously placed for
the reception of it. It was a shield, on which
was a three-masted ship, and for a crest was a
hand severed at the wrist.
"I wear this seal and badge till Cromwell
loses his usurped throne, and then I resume my
arms. I will yet make him wince the more, as
men say he does at hearing of Red Hand, his
deadly foe ! Now I would have thee pen a let-
ter to my fair daughter, at the convent St. Lo.
It is four weeks since she wrote me the sweet
missile which pleased me so, and I have deigned
it no reply. Come, sir, thou art my right hand,
and I would have thee write to a lady as I would
have done in my younger days. Let the script
be smaller than that in which thou hast writ to
the French king, and by no means so large as
that wherewith thou writest to our English bar-
ons. A handwriting for ,a lady's eye, let me
teach thee, young cavalier, should be graceful in
shape, neat in all its arts, of a cunning and
pleasing fashion, and without mar or blot. I
like well the Italian script for this business.
Dost thou know it ?"
" Yes, my lord ; I have cultivated all styles of
Spain, of France, of Italy, and of Germany."
"Let us have that of Italy."
" I am ready, my lord."
" Then say these words with thy own finish ;
for, by the rood I I am better skilled in ropes and
ships than in the art of penmansh4p. Now to thy
task :-.

FISHERMAN.
"'FAIn DAUGHTER JENNY
'Thy sweetbillet came dulg4-my hand;
and was read with pride and, satisfactiQf. It
pleases me that thou art so ha ppy content with
thy present abode, and that the abbess doth her
best to give thee such entertainment as becometh
thy goodness and my daughter. Thou wilt par-
don this lorg delay between my answer and thy
letter ; but this is a busy season since the mishap
to the prince's army, and I am compelled to
keep astir, and mostly on the sea, forI am hoping
to give the prince the opportunity of getting off
from the coast in my ship, which would be the
proudest event of thy father's life to aid his
prince in escaping from his enemies. Thou hast
heard how he has been hunted in Scotland ;
but getting into .England, he is now wandering
near the coast, and must soon either fall into the
hands of his enemies or get safely over to
France. If he reach Paris, I shall not fail to go
there to give him my homage, in which case I
will pass St. Lo and take thee with me ; for thy
education is by this time well on to its close ;
and what thou lackest in thy head, thy face's
beauty will make up. idward Percy telleth
me that thou hast grown wonderfully fair. Be
will be the bearer of this, and I would fain coin+
mend him (here there lurked a smiling expres-
sion in the corner of the earl's eye) to thy, cour-
tesy and attention, for he hath. my confidence
and love. Heavenbless thee, fair daughter Jen-
ny, and soon place thee in the arms of thy loving
father,
ARTHUR, EARL OF VILLISns."
This letter having been duly penned by the
youthful secretary, Red Hand settled himself
upon his couch and gave himself up to the pro-
posed sleep which he so much needed,while Ed.
ward continued at the escritoire writing and
sealing pacquets addressed to various exiled no-
blemen in France.
At length the day broke, and the earl, rising,
went to the deck. His keen eye surveyed the
horizon. Three or four vessels were in sight,
one of which, far to the eastward, was made' out
to be a brig-of-war, but as she showed no colors,
her nature could not be made out ; though as she
was near the French coast, she was-supposed to
be a vessel of that nation. Some dozen fishing
vessels were also seen running about. Upon all
three Red Hand directed the long, heavy tele-
scope of that day, and then, having swept the
French coast near which he was sailing, he and-
denly gave orders to put about ; for up to that


THE YOUNG ]JSHEBMAN.

time, since Guilford had left her in the yacht
durigtrepdiugnight, she had been steering
nearlygwe t. ,he island of Alderney lay;about
two lagues distant abeam, when they tacked.
ship.
" Lay her course E. N. East," said Red Hand.
"We will run up, the channel and keep cruising
between Normandy and Sussex, for we may be
so fortunate as to fall in with some of the fugi-
tiv99 crossing who will give us news of-the prince.
Keep a close watch on all the fishing boats, and
run close to each of them, so that if any of the
prince's party be in them, we may take them on
board."
The ship how stretched eastward under all her

canvas, for the breeze was light from the -south
and south by west, and every sail had to be set
to get six knots an hour out of her. The men,
after they hacl breakfasted, were called to quar-
ters and trained to 'the guns, to keep-them in
constant practice ; for they were surrounded by
hostile vessels, and might at any hour find them
selves engaged in mortal conflict with some of
Cromwell's ships.- . In this manner, closely ex-
amining every craft, the royal cruiser of the chan-
nel kept on her course, thesight of tier causing
many an English trading vessel to up helm and
fij for shelter towards the nearest land on the
British side,

CHAPTER XVIII.
AN EXoITING sCENE.
IT was about three o'clock in the afternoon, of his ship and run into Cherbourg, the lookout
when the ship commanded by Red Hand came aloft called lustily from his perch:-
nearly opposite Cape. La Hogue, thq land lying  "Sail. ho!"
about five ,miles from  her to 'the south,.on the  "Where away" demanded the officer o the
starboardbeam.. The wind had been light and deck, making use of the same nautical phrase-
bafflingall.day, and she had made but little pro- ology, which' 'for-more than two hundred years
grass Since the morning; nothaving placed more has been customary in theEnglish navy..
than fifteen miles between her and the place .. " Three points abaft the larboard beam."
where, at' sunrise, she had put about to steer  The earl:glanced over the quarter, and saw a
eastward up the channel.     .           vessel, at some distance yet,.but the appearance
;The Vessels which;had been visible from her of:which caused him to call quickly for his'tele-
deck itt the morning bad nowall disappeared in scope. . When it was handed to him, he-rested it
their several directions, but-others were in sight, upon a rattling of the mizzen:riggingandtlevelled
The brigofwar, which they had supposed to be it.upon 'the stranger., There' were a dozen other
a French   vessel, had suffered the "Prince vessels in. sight in other directions, 'but they
Charles " to come near enough for her to make were all made'out to be .either trader or coaat,
out her, character, when, without waiting for a ers or fishermen, save one, which was;'tothe north
more intimate acquaintance, and trusting to her and east, which could not be made out, being too,
heels, she hoisted the British; flag; and.ran for remote, but-which seemed' to be cording down
Portsmouth. .Several fishing vessels, but chiefly hand over . hand, bringing a fine topsail breeze
Norman, had been brought too-itk the course of along with her.
the fifteen miles run, but there : was no one on' "What do you; make her ' out, my lord-i"
board-save the. ordinary crews.. 'Nor from two asked Edward, wlio:stood near the earl,'assisting
Englishifishing smacks which Red Hand'brought his one arm in keeping the glass steady.
to, could he learn anything of any fugitives hav 4 "A  confounded large ship, and with iron
ing been seen on the coast, or 'having crossed to teeth enough to eat two such mouthfuls a 'we
France, are."
About half past three in the afternoon, as the - "A ship of thi largest class, my lord ?"
earl was about to give orders to alter the course . "Yes, and one of Cromwell's bull-dogs. I

I

i

THE YOUNG FISHERMANR

know her well, by Ber stump topmasts. It isI
the Leviathan, and is twice our metal.. She hast
a breeze with her, too, and seems to be steering
dead for us."
"You may be sure, my lord, she knows who'
we are."
" Without doubt.  We have boarded craft
enough since morning to report us in that quar-4
ter."
'My lord," said the quartermaster, who had
been~for some minutes inspecting the ship in the
northern board.
" Well, Claypole, what now l"
"The chap there a-weather is coming down
with a bone in his teeth. iHe has an ugly look
about the muzzle."
"If he comes too near, we will spoil his muz-
zle for him, if that is the case," said the earl,
cheerfully; for he was one of those'chivalrous
natures that"take delight - in the accumulation
of dangers. " The fellow off the quarter has
also a breeze, while we lay as quiet here as'if
we were at our anchors. fiave supper for the
men early, and then have all hands to quarters,",
he called out. " We shall hardly get away
from these two inquisitive gentlemen who- are
coming down this way to look; at us, without a
brush:"
At hearing' this, the whole quarterdeck was
in excitement.  The -fficers smiled and ex-
changed congratulations with each other at the
prospect of a battle, wbile the rumor flying for-
ward among 'the men, iMused a spirit- of bel-
ligerepey into their bosoms that completely
changed the whole aspect of things. One wld
have thonht that the happiest intelligence had-
reached them, instead of the report that two
large, armed foes were coming down upon them,
probably to attack them, and possibly destroy
them and their vessel. -But if the faced of the
officers and men brightened,, the oiuntenance of
their chief, Red Hand, shone with courage and
warlike anticipation. Already, in numerous in
stances had he met the ships of the, usurper-and
cegquered them,though inferior in strength to
them. And so:frequent, bold and successful had
been his assaults upon ships, castles, mand even
towns on the coast, that in proportion as people
held his name in awe, his own confidence in his
invincibility had increased.
Cape de la Hague, oppositeghiich the ship
of ~the earl lay, scarcely in motipafor want of
wind, has two horns, and in the. bay between
them lies the town of Cherbourg. This port

was in full sight; not twdleages'4istants¢ 'cis
the ship,-*hile astern an ahead,,ifaIlke
to leeward, lay tie two tapes.' To th't il&amp;i
ward the'faint'blue 'line of the' Coast  of SSAe
and the Isle of Wight=were visible, forty lifes
off. A little asteht and about seven tdiles dis-
tant, was the larger ship, the Leviathan, coning
down on the wind, and steering as if runni
quietly for Cherbourg. Forward of the bean,
in the northern board, also was to be seen the
other ship, steering also for Cherbourg; though'
as this was a French port, 'there was no prbb r
ability of their being bound there ; but'ts the
Prince Charles lay directly in the track to 'the
'port, this vessel was very clearly the object at'
which they were aiming. There were soms half
a score of small craft in sight, and far distant
two, or three English fishing-boats.
The men at length bad their supper, and th
officers also, so. that the after eubins, with 'tte
bulkheads removed, were soon turned into op'eui
decks with men at 'the guns. At length, abo
four o'clock, the Leviathan came sot near as '  {_r' '
show her ports to the naked eyes of the men
the channel cruiser ; but the wind had got ahead
of her, and ,Red Hand was able to manage hIt       .
vessel under motion with a five-knot breeze.
The ship which was coming from the coast of
England, was now near enough for her guns to
be counted; 'but instead of keeping on for the
Prince Charles, she suddenly hauled her wind
and stood six or seven points eastward.
f That is a new manoeuvre," exclaimed ted
Hand, as he saw it; and catching up, his glaaW'
he directed it towards her. "She is 'in chasf'
a fishing smack I" he cried. "I see the smack
about two miles ahead of her to the southland
evidently flying from.her. They are wetting her'
sails and using their'oars. There must be some-
thing more than usual in the wind, for a frigate
to .turn out of her 'course 'toehuse a  fishing-
vessel !Crowd every stitch of!canvas 'up i'the
ship, sir 1" he ordered, in tones of unusu 'ani-
iation.
"The smack is making for the Frenei Coast
as fast as she can make speed," said the t ter-
master, with his eye to his glass:
The whole attention of every one on board
the'eruiser as now directed to the frigate' and
the fugitive fishing-smack  If there had been
any doubt in the minds of any one-as to the ob-
ject which had turned the English tessel'from
her courseiwas now removed by her firing at
long shot at the escaping little craft.


66                          THE YOUNG
rowd on e-li every yard of sail 1" shouted
the earl. "We .must cut the frigate off from
hlc   se.. Ten to one, there is some one of the
prince's friends in her, and the glass of the cap-
tain of the frigate has detected him."
All on board was now intense enthusiasm.
Every nautical art was brought into use to in-
crease the ship's velocity, and enable her to cut
off the fishing-smack. The latter had full five
miles yet to sail before she could reach the French
shore. She was aiming for the little fishing port
of Feschamps, beyond the cape. On her star-
board quarter, not two and a half miles distant,
and pressing all canvas after, and firing at inter-
vals, was the frigate we have spoken of, and
from the rapidity with which she gained on her,
there was every prospect of her capturing the
prize for which she seemed to be straining all
her nerve.
the cidiser Prince Charles was about a mile
and a half from the fishing-smack, and so had a
mile advantage of the frigate for cutting her off;
as she had to run all this distance to inter-
herself between them, it was feared by Red
d that the smack might be destroyed by the
set of the frigate. He therefore, as soon as he
'tme within range, opened his larboard battery
upon her in the most spirited cannonade. This,
as he expected, drew the fire of the frigate upon
him, but'she did not cease to crowd sail in chase
of the boat, nor to send balls after her from one
of her bow chasers.
"I will soon put an end to this double game,"
said the earl; and bringing his ship into the
wind, he opened broadside after broadside upon
her so effectually, that she had enough to do to
take care of herself and return it. In the midst
of the battle, which every moment grew hotter,
Edward, who had kept his eye upon the smack
with the telescope, exclaimed:
" She, has been hit, my lord, and the fisher-
men are trying to keep her from sinking. ,But
ho! my lord! There is the woman we saw,
who has thrown off her gown, and now is work-
ing in a man's dress. It is aman, my lord 1"
" Then, by the mass i it must be a disguised
exile. Let me see 1"
The earl took the glass and levelled it at the
boat, which had her mainmast shot away, and
which was filling fast with water.;
" You are right. There are five men now
and no woman! That was a disguise. Hoi
know we but the fortunes of England are in tha
sinking boat! Square away the yards 1" h

FISHERMAN.

shouted, " and let us go to the succor of the-
boat, so that if there be any one in her of note
we can give him aid. Keep your batteries play-
ing lively, my lords," he called to his officers.
" We have knocked the frigate's quarter railing
to pieces, and crippled her foremast ; but she is
doing her best to come up with the sinking smack.
But we will be ahead of her !" -
Red Hand now took a position on the bow of
his ship, and earnestly kept his glass upon the
smack. Both vessels are now about half a mile
distant from each other and from the fishing-
boat, and drawing nearer under constant firing,
to the point at which both aimed.
"It is the prince !" shouted one of the officers,
who had been for some moments looking at the
smack, which, having been cleared from water,
the persons in it were once more pulling towards
the French coast.
"Who? where?" demanded Red Hand, to
whom he stood near on the bows.
" The man at the smack's helm, steering.
Look well, my lord ! He has his hat off, and I
can clearly distinguish his features, and his long
black hair, and his very figure and air, too."
The earl, himself, now took the spy-glass. He
looked through it a moment, and then cried, with
emotion:.
"It is he ! It is the prince! We must save
him I Blow this infernal frigate out of the wa-
ter i Double shot your guns, my men ! The
prince ! our king ! is in yonder sinking bark;
trying to escape for his life and crown I Fire
red hot shot ! Make your iron-throated guns
roar ! See how the frigate gains! Blow her
into the air, or they will seize our king from our
very grasp !"
The ship reeled, and seemed rent in every
seam by the terrible discharge of the whole of
her broadside at once into the-frigate at scarcely,
" musket shot range. The iron storm that rushed
through the air seemed to be obedient to the
fierce mandate of the chief. One of the red hot'
- shot must.have penetrated to: the magazine, for
scarcely had the roar of-the discharge ceased,
- when it was followed by.an explosion more ap.
palling than human ears ever heard. The very
surface of the water vibrated.and swang from,
I side to side, and the whole heavens seemed rent,
while spars, bodies and limbs of men, and even
cannon flew through the air, which was filled
with shrieks and groans of anguish too horrible
t for description..
e   Every man on board the cruimr stood petri-

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

fled and amazed. Not a word was spoken, not  " Go thou and mind thef on busntres, man)"
a gun fired, not a foot was moved for full a responded Robin.
minute, till the last fragment had fallen into the  " That will I, and thine, too," responded the
sea, and the ruined ship, with a painful lurch, man, with an evil light in his eyes. "It will be
descended, a huge coffin of dead and dying, be- hardly safe for thee to land foot again on Sus-
neath the surface of the sea.              sex shore, if I get there afore ye."
" That was the most fearful thing I ever wit- With these words of menace he let his main
nessed," said Red Hand, who was the first to sheet fly, and before the wind went on his way
break silence. "But it is the fate of war. Come, towards' the English shore.
men ! Do - not stand stupified" It has saved  "That man will do as he says, Robin! It
our prince ! Behold the royal Charles himself will be hardly safe for either you or I to go back
standing at the helm and steering that fishing- at present."
smack yonder, In a few-minutes we shall have  "That it wont, Guilford. But -I hope no
him safe on board ! His life is cheaply pur- harm will come upon Anne and thy motherr"
chased by the five hundred disloyal lives that  "No," answered Guilford, thoughtfully,."they
have now just been sacrificed to his safety."  will scarcely dare harm them for our acts. Let
We will now return to the smack, on board us hope for the best."

which we left the prince asleep, while Guilford,
at the helm, was guiding his little vessel with
skill and speed across the channel. At one
period both the nobles laid down in the bottom
of the boat and slept also; so that'the smack
was for .several hours wholly under the eye of
Guilford and Robin. Not long after the two
noblemen had fallen into repose, a small trad-
ing lugger passed them, standing towards the
Sussex coast. Its owner was well known to be
a smuggler, and Guilford, though he knew him
well, as 'he belonged to Brighthelmstone, had
never any -intercourse with him. This man
steered his lugger a little out of her course, in
order to pass close to the smack, which Guilford
perceiving, tried to prevent; for he did not wish
to have the two fugitives who were lying in the
bottom of his little vessel, asleep, discovered by
him. The lugger, however; kept away for him,
and came close under his bows.
"Hilloh, master Guilford l" he hailed; "what
luck to-day ? Methinks you keep well over to
the French coast, when 'at this tide thou shouldst
know thou wilt find the fish plentiest off the Isle
of Wight."
"How dast thou know but that I am bound
as thou bast been, to France, to get a cargo of
French brandies ?" replied Guilford, in no good
humor.     -
"Ah, by my head, it would be an honest
errand; ay, an honester one, may be," added
the man, standing up and stretching, his long
neck to look over into the smack, for he had
brought his- lugger almost dead into the wind's
eye as he was talking; "honesterl than smug-
gling over king's' men. I see thou hast a pair !
Rare birds,.my lad. How many golden louis
dost this day's fishing bring thee ?"

"And fear the worst for Anne."
"It is but a poor courage, Robin, that is ever
looking on the dark side. What we wish and
believe will almost always come to pass. Let
us believe and hope all will be safe with those
we love."
"How unlucky we should fall in with tha'
bad man, Guilford!"
" It is all for the best."
"I wish I could think about things as quietly
as you do. But the fellow cant do us any
harm, for we shall get the prince across before
any one can be sent after us."
" Yes, I hope so. If he .should fall in with
any of the channel watch-ships, which we have
so fortunately eluded, he will give information,
and we shall be pursued. But as we are half
way across the channel, I have little fear."
"I don't like the looks of the ship astern,"
said Robin. " She has ports, I am sure."
" I can't well make her out, but she can hsirdly
notice us ; and besides, she can't be in chase of
us, for she came from the Portsmouth direction."
Guilford, however, was in the wrong, for once.
The frigate was a guarda coasta, and had been
all the day overhauling fishing-boats and ex-
amining them, and had seen the smack with
other boats some time before. But being spoken
by the lugger, the skipper of which pointed out
the fishing-vessel, then a league ahead of the
ship, as having two fugitives on board, the
frigate rewarded the man for his information
and crowded on all sail in chase.
When she had-been running on this course
some half an hour, the captain of the frigate
made out Red Hand's vessel, and recognized
the ship. Upon making known who she was,

._

67


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.               ' 69

08                THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

his o cer -were byno means anxious to come
in collision with the formidable captain,. and
proposed that the course of the frigate should
be changed. To this, however, the commander
firmly objected. = The disastrous results of the
chase, the reader has already seen.
When it began, Guilford had called up the
prince and made known the exact danger they
were in. Prince Charles then manifested the
self-possession which always characterized him.
Having. closely observed the two vessels, both
of which were standing towards him, and both of
nhich he supposed to be enemies, he promptly
gave directions for the management of their es-
cape. -,By his suggestion, Guilford, Robin, and
the two noblemen rowed with the four oars, and
he himself took the helm, and at- the same time
kept the sails -wetted by throwing water upon
them with a long-handled scoop which the smack
carried for this purpose.
"She gains an us, your majesty," said Gu-
ford,-whose practised eye could note with more
accuracy than theirs the least-variation of dis-
tance on the water.
"Which of the two, master Guilford ?" asked
the prince, now'looking at the frigate astern and
now at Red Hand's ship, both of which were
equally distant from the smack.
"both of them I see now gain. But the ship
to the west is, I belieye, a friend, my prince !"
suddenly exclaimed Guilford..
" A friend ! " Then welcome to her ! But, by,
the maceof King Cole, master Guilford, there
is but poor chance of a fugitive like me finding
a friend in a Cromwell ship."_
" I do believe, your majesty, it is the Earl
Red Hand's channel cruiser."-
" Earl Villiers !" cied the prince, with ani-
mation. -The good angels grant it be. ButI
fear you are mistaken."
"No, my lord- I mean your majesty"-
" Let my majesty alone, good master Gra-
ham," said the prince.
"Nay, shall I not call thee my prince ?"
"'If thou wilt. Art sure of the vessel? for
the stout earl is one of the staunchest friends I
and England have at this dark day."
"I can't be mistaken,'my prince,"~responded
Guilford,with animation. "Irecognize the poop
and the castle on her bows ; for I was on board
of her only last night.".
" True, The good stars of my house now aid
me. Blow, sweet winds ! But nay! The same
wind that giveth her to us bringeth our foe."

"Your majesty," said Lord Algernon,, the
gray-bearded noble, "that must be the Earl Vil--
Hers, for that is not the English flag which he
has just hoisted."
"It is a blue flag with a red hand in the en-,
tre !" cried the Scottish lord, with a kindling
eye. "It is the earl's ship."
" Then there is hope for us yet ! But there
comes an iron ball after us," added the prince,
as a jet of, smoke belched from the bows of the
frigate which had the English cross flying at her
mast head, and a shot came bounding over the
waves, dashing the spray upon them as it whizzed,
past.
Another, and a third shot followed, and then
they beheld the shipof the earl.come to the wind
and open her cannonade. The scene to the eyes
of the prince and all with him was so intensely
interesting, as they gazed upon the fierce battle
between the two ships, that .for a moment they
forgot to row. But they were reminded of their
duty by a dhot from the frigate, which struck
their boat just forward of the beam, on the bulge
of the bow,.and cut her down to the water's edge.
Instantly they became aware of their peril,
and as the boat began to fill, Guilford sprang
towards the prince, and placed in his hands a
thwart, saying that "it would buoy him up if the
boat went down."
"Thanks, my brave friend; but what will be-
come of thee ?" said the prince, seeing'that the
two lords held the other planks.
",I will take care of myself. If thou artsaved,
my prince,- my poor life will be well offered for
thy safety."
"That may not be. Can't we save her ?"
" Yes, perhaps we can float, if the noble cav-
aliers will aid to bale out with their hats."
" That we will all do," responded the prince ;
and .throwing off the gown, which till now he
had worn, he set the example. Robin, in thp
meanwhile tried to stop the rush of water in,
by throwing his body into the gap, an expedient
which was successful ; for soon the little vessel
began to rise from the flood and float with more
buoyancy. But all their efforts were for a mo-
ment suspended by the terrific explosion, which
freed them from their enemy astern in the awful
manner we have already described.
"Merciful heaven assoilzie their poor souls !"
reverently ejaculated the prince, as he saw the
brave ship plunge headlong beneath the sea with
its mass of life. The swell of the sea that fol-
lowed the immersion of so large a bulk tossed

the smack wildly about, and it required all their
united aid to keep her from going down. On
all sides were seen the black heads of swimmers,
who were calling for aid; for at least six score
of the crew were thrown by the explosionunhurt
into the sea.                       -
"We cannot aid thee, wretches," said the
prince, "for we are in a strait equal to thine.
' All our hopes depend on the present approach
of the earl's ship."
This vessel was now within five , hundred
fathoms of the smack, which could be scarcely
kept afloat. Upon her bows stood Red Hand,
calling out manfully to the prince :
" Keep up heart, my royal master ! A few
seconds more -nd we will reach you ! Down
with the boats, but first for me !" he added.
The warlike, castellated ship now got within
her length of the smack, when the earl sprang
into a boat alongside, and pulled by a dozen
strong arms, the next moment had the prince's
hand in his, and drew him from the foundering
fishing vessel into his own barge. Instantly he
dropped on his knee before him, and with tears
in his eyes kissed his hands.
"0, my prince ! my escaped, my beloved and
royal Charles !" The air at the same time was
5

rent with huzzas for Prince Charles, and for a
few moments it seemed as if every man in the
boats and on the ship were beside themselves.
Some shouted, some wept, some huzzaed, some
danced over the decks, others embraced, and all
was: jy and glad uproar.
Escorted by the earl, Prince Charles ascended
the, side of the ship, and then every officer
pressed around him, knelt before him, and em-
braced. him, weeping like children. Charles
himself could scarcely see for the emotions that
blinded his own eyes with tears. He recognized
this one and that one, and called them by name,
and kissed on the cheek some of those whom he
had once known most intimately.
"Now, your highness," said Red Hand, whose
war-worn cheeks were wet with tears of delight,
"let me lead thee to my cabin."
" Nay, not till I have presented to thee and all
my friends the brave young man to whom I owe
my escape from England. Where is he ?"
The prince then looked around for Guilford,
and also for Robin, but was told they were in
the smack, which some of the sailors wereaiding
them in saving from sinking. He then called to
him to leave the boat and come en board.


WHEN Guilford, in obedience to the command

of the prince, came over the ship's side, and the
eyes of the Earl Red Hand fell upon him, the
latter exclaimed with~surprise and pleasure:
"What ! dost thou owe thy secure flight from
the shores of Britain to this young man, your
majesty ?"
" Yes ; and never will I forget my obligations
to him. Advance, master Guilford, and let me
present thee as my deliverer t, these my noble
friends."
"By the rood, sir Guilford !" said the earl, as
he warmly grasped his hand, "thou art in luck.
Thy star is in the ascendant. Thou art the most
fortunate man born ! Come, thou shalt tell me
how it has been thy fortune to be of such service
to England's king."
" My lord," said Edward, who had already
exchanged a grasp of the hand with Guilford,
" the men in the boats wish to know if they shall
save the poor devils who are swimming about
the ship ?"
" What," exclaimed the prince, " the wretches
thrown into the wate? by the explosion of the
frigate ?"
"Yes, your highness," answered Red Hand.
"By all means ! pick them' up to a man, and
bediligent! They are All my British subjects.
You have room for them, my good Villiers ?"

"Yes, your majesty, as prisoners," answered
Red Iand, with a slight cloud upon his brow.
" But I have little favor towards the villains who
have placed my prince's life in jeopardy."
" Let that passI We must be humane, my
dear earl. But what ship have we standing down
so bravely this way ?"
"That is a parliament war vessel, your
majesty," answered Red.Hand, who had been so
much occupied with the rescue and reception of
the prince as ' be heedless of the approach of
this vessel, until now she was within a league,
and booming down upon them under all her
enormous spread of canvas.
Red Hand, having escorted the prince to his
cabin, and ordered refreshments at once to be
placed before him and the two noblemen, hast-
ened from his presence, and ascending the
highest part of the stern, called Edward to his
side.
" Place the telescope in rest here, and let me
have a sight at this monster, for I begin to fear
that the prince, now that he is on board of us,
would be safer anywhere else."
" There is great danger, my lord," answer !
Edward. " She is certainly coming on us fast
since we stopped to take the prince on board."
" Yes, that she is, and she is already training
her guns upon us. Make all sail !" he shouted,

x
t
J
t
f
4

'V

Tl~R YOUNG S~IRRhE&amp;N.

1

CHAPTER XIX,.
A NEW DANGER-BEP HAND'S DEVOTION.

like the tones of a battle trumpet. "l]very
maan to his post-! Boats, aboard I If thereare
any more men' tot be, picked up, let the ship
astern look after them. Casovprboard adozen
spars for the miserable wretches, to float on!1
Sail all ! We mast save the: prince, from
capture !".
At the sound of his ringing commands all
was activity from stem  o stern. The boats
were hoisted up, and Robin had!the regret to see
his smack, to which no repairs could ;be made,
drop astern; and at length slowly disappear be-
neath the tide,
Bt;all that the goodship could do, she could
not make her way beyond the-reach of the-Levia-
than's long :guns, one of which was now fired
upon.her at the farthest range. The;shet fell
astrna quarter of.a mile ; but the second shots
which soon followed, dropped.into the'ship's
wake.
" The game is up," said the earl. "It.will not
do for the prince- to say half an hour longer on
board, for that ship will blpw  ne out,of the
water, unlesi.I can; ,ork to windward,- and then
it is doubtful if we.can get away from hpr."
This was, spoken to a.group of officers whoug
he had; called arpund him.on the deck, wllile the
prince,was regaling himself with thewjnes and
acceptable;farehe-had placed.before)gim.
"We are ;caught in- this bay of H avre dc
Grace, and'nmust either run ashore or fight."
"It would bemadness, my lord, to fight such
a ship,;twice our size," said his officers.
"Iknowit.- My mind.is made up. We must
let.the prince., go. There, is the little village of
Fesehamps under our lee, zrt five piles distant.
Andthere flies a.rench fishermau straightinto
*the , port. -Eirea gun forward, and bring the
boat 4.",
The orderwas.no sooner giventhan.obeyed,
and ,.small fly-sailboat withie one mast,. which
was darting over ,the water, landward; li kea
swallowou the wing, sud4enly lowering its tri-
angular ,si, waited. the approach .f theelhip,
In the nwme, nie;r the earl entered the cabin
where the princewas at his repagstwith-hi9,two
friends.
-Th"sisafeast, my dear earl, fitto setbefore
a hig,' said.the prince, laughing, " I have not
died s well in many a day., $y the toped!
if you kgepus st weld hgre in yopeas te o ft,
seat   slall be indueed to be Iongypurguest'
"Gladlye,wouldI haveyour mejesymyguest
as long as it may please you to honor psy, poor

71

i

vessel with your royal presence. But I regret
to say that I,have come, dour majesty, tq waro
you that you are not safe even here, thoughyon
are. surrounded by brave hearts and 19yel.; but
these may bleed for you, but they cannot protect;
you againstthe foe thp4 menaces your safety'.
"What now? Have I to fly again so sogn,
my 'dear earl?" said the prince, with a slight
shade of discontent'on his brow. "Iwas induig.
ing the hole that for a day or two i should find
here repose and quiet.".
"So I hoped, gwur highness. Please cast your
eyes out of the stern window, and .you will ee
one of the largest of Cromwell's ships in ghase
of us. It will be impossible for me to cppe with
so formidable an antagonist; and I have conte
to beg your majesty to take refuge on boar4 a
French fishing vessel now alongside."
"I am in you hands, inj dear earl and my
lords,"' answered the prince rising. "But to
whom am I to entrust myself ?"
" Two 3'rencbmen,-an old man and a boy,
your highness."
"I will take with me my TO trutty  IgS
friends,4raham and Robin; with tlem ishall
feel secure."
Upon reaching the gangway, the prince as4
Guilford if, he would still accompany him; and
see hin safely on French ground.
Our young hero very joyfily cornp ie with
the prince's wish, and at tisame, time vi W the
prince, the two lords who had come ,with him,
got, into the fishing boat. Edwardealso inadu
one of thg party,, laden; with the paequeps with
which the earl had entrusted him.,
-" Now farewell, my brave earl, and my lord
and gentlemen. I hope, if anyof youcomb to
Paris,, youwill not fail to call.on me;, ad
trust IIeayen will ond day send us allntjeg
fortugees."
With this sonxrteous p .tingspeece i  tg
raised andwaved his chapeau to ty of ers4Ad
ap  6 to .epien, who co9wdeA the.rg
bulwarks to see him depart.  e
on board the Frenc. boat the last     sad
having embraced the prince, he e  4Izfs
handto Guilford.
"I see you need no aid from me, my rave
youngfen.d , ]the prineecones to hise
wghput 1being;a popieta'
The fishingboat was soi cars;  4ss
side of the ship,,,d nQuiQrd, i t, orna
of Prince Charles, took the lielm  rm

.

I

' ''


72-                         THE YOUNG
Norman fisherman, who 'had all the while re-
garded with a sort of bewilderment this summary
disposition of his little vessel.
" Where will, you land, my prince ?" asked
Guilford, as he took the helm.
" What-village is that in the bottom of the bay
south of us ?"
"'eschainps, your majesty !"
" Good ! I will land there. We can reach it
in an hour, think you "       p.
*      !" Yes, your majesty ! The wind is fair and
free.'
"And so are the shot, it would seem, from
yonder huge war ship," responded Charles, as a
heavy iron missile from the double-decker flew
above heir heads with an appalling roar.
"The earl, who had seen the shot pass his own
vessel towindward, at once gallantly steered his
ship so as to place her in line between the fishing
vessel which contained the prince and the enemy ;
for be saw'that they were directing their fire to-
ika-ds it, as if they suspected it contained some
important personage.
When prince Charles saw this manoeuvre,
whereby the ship completely protected the boat
from the double-decker's guns, he 'said, with
emotion :
"What a true heart that brave Arthur of the
ed' Hand, as men term him, has in his manly
and Jbyal bosom I He is ready to receive the
whole iOre of the formidable foe to protect his
prince. It is worth the dangers and, privations
I have undergone for me to learn the devotion
of my friends. Everywhere I have found trusty
confidants, and in no instance have I been be-
trayed."/
The fishing boat now bounded merrily over
the water, ndring the land each moment ; but
the sense of 'escape and safety was modified on
the prince's part by the danger in which he
now saw the courageous earl placed. Without
attempting to run away from his enemy, but
only tr 'ing to keep his vessel as a shield to cover
the prince's retreat, 'the earl held his ship in the
wind, and received in his hull a shower of iron
balls'that were hurled upon him from the Levia-
than, which kept stalking on, belching forth fire
and smoke like a moving volcano.
At length, when the earl saw that the fishing
vessel was -beyond the reach of the double-
decker's, guns, and close under the land, quite
beyond all danger' of capture, he proceeded to.
fight his vessel out of the dangerous situation ini
the best manner he was able.- But after firing

FISHERMAN.
three broadsides, which had no effect upon the
double decker, which drew nearer every mo-
ment,'he called his officers about hind.
"My lords and loyal gentlemen I You need
not be told of the imminent peril we are in. The
fate of our noble ship is sealed. It is impossible
for us to save her. Our only hope for our own
safety is to square away and run for the' French
coast, and strand her and set her on fire. We
have saved the prince I Already ' he is within
hail of the coast where he will find an asylum
and protection. With this let us be content !
If we lose our ship, we shall have the proud con-
aciousness of knowing that we sacrificed her for
our beloved prince's safety. There remains now
but a choice between captivity and the capture
of our vessel, or her destruction by our'own
hands, and our safety on French -soil. I shall,
therefore, with your consent, give orders to'steer
straight for the land."
The officers were all of the earl's mind, and
the next moment the gallant ship, already greatly
crippled by the Leviathan's heavy targeting, N
squared her yards and drove straight fot the
beach, which extended out in front of the town
of Cherbourg.   The earl would gladly have
landed her near Feschamps, but a reef running
but- in front of that place, would have caught
the ship half a mile before she could reach 'the
main land, while at Cherbourg they could run
directly under the walls of the fort.'
The Leviathan no sooner found the ship was
making for the land, than she tame into the
wind, .and gave her first one and- then another
broadside. But through the 'storm of iron the
brave ship held heraay, though her spars were
splintered, her rigging cut, her timbers wounded,,
and her scuppers running blood from her slaugh-
tered crew. Onward she held her course, till at
length she had only her foremast and single fore-
sail remaining. Yet with this squared to the
wind, she drove forward, staggering and help-
less, while the shores of Cherbourg were thronged
withtcitizens; who, by their shouts, encouraged
those on board. The Leviathan came to about
a mile from the town, for want of sufficient depth
of water, and lowering a fleet of boats, sent themns
in after the ship, which could scarcely creep along
for her wounds. 'But at length she struck the
shore, and a score of boats from the land came
off- to land the crew. They were soon'filled, but
Red Hand remained last with a dozen of his men.
"We will give them a parting salute," ha
said, quietly.

I

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

The guns on the larboard battery had been
previously shotted, and as the ship in grounding
had swung beam on the land, her battery bore
directly on the flotilla of boats. The latter were
pulling in with a perseverance and boldness that
showed their determination -to take the ship
though she was in a friendly port; but in those
days the privileges of neutrality were not so
sacredly regarded by nautical men as they are
at thepresent day.
When the boats of the parliament ship had got
within half a mile, Red Hand gave the signal by
touching off the after gun with his own hand.
The others were discharged in rapid succession,,
and the earl, amid' the smoke, after setting fire
to his ship, left her to  her,fate.

The effect of the broadside upon the advanc-
ing boats was prodigious ; so that it was said
that Red Hand had slain more me i in the last
hour of his command on the channel, than In1 all
his fourteen years' cruisings.' Out of nine boats,
but three reached the Leviathan, the othersbar-
ing been destroyed by the final fire of the Royal
Charles.
The earl stood upon the shore apd witnessed
with a sad heart the conflagration of his fine
ship, as in the dusk of evening she shot up
tongues of lurid flame to the sky, illuminating
town and port, harbor and shore, sea and clouds
with a brilliant flame, and night closed over a
scene of appalling interest and excitement.

'4,~

I-

At St. Lo the earl received his daughter, wb
joined the cavalcade, and riding more especially
under the care of the youthful secretary, she Was
escorted to the metropolis.
The subsequent events connected with the ar.
rival of the prince in Trance, and his retiring
and establishing a court in Holland of the nobles
who had followed him, are such common matters
of history, that we need not dwell upon them in
our story, but carry our narrative forward toathe
period when the sun of his fortunes once more
rose above the horizon and lighted him to the
throne of his ancestors.
Cromwell, after an unparalleled usurpation of
nine years, at length died, contrary to the ex-
pectation of his, enemies, peacefully upon, his
bed, and naming his son Richard as his successor.
But this person possessed none of the ambition,
or statesmanlike talents, or warlike spirit of his
father ; and after a brief exercise of the power
bequeathed to-him, resigned it into the hands of
&amp; parliament. England was now without a head;
and all hearts were turned to the youthful Prince
Charles, who still remained in Holland, where
he surrounded himself by a brilliant court' To
him a messenger wardespatched by the parlia.
meant, offering to reinstate him on the throne of
-the realm, on certain conditions.

THn earl and his officers were hospitably en-
tertained that night by the citizens of Cherbourg,
who, when they learned that Prince Charles
had safely landed in France, illuminated theircity
with joy ; for the French of all classes had , a
great horror of Cromwell, and although they
knew little of Prince Charles, the fact that he
was the legitimate heir to the British throne was
enough to bindto him the sympathy of the loyal,
and, in that' day, king-loving people.
The next day the earl, whose renown made
him no'inconsiderable mark of curiosity, quitted
Cherbourg 'for 'St. Lo, where his daughter, the
fair Lady Jane, was placed for security and edu-
cation. He was accompanied by several of his
officers, who from thence were to accompany
him to Paris, where they hoped to meet the
prince, of whose safe landing at Feschamps. the
earl had heard through Edward, who had joined
him at .Cherbourg.
"And what became of my brave friend Guil-
ford ?" asked the earl.-
"He accompanied the prince, by his request,
to Paris. I saw them depart,.with the youth,
and Robin, mounted 'on horses furnished by the
mayor- of Fesehamps. Lords Algernon and.
Catesby also accompanied his majesty; and they
hoped to reach Paris in eighteen hours."' ' 1

I

/

CHAPTER XX.
THE RINCEc's STAR IN THE ASCENDANT.


74

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN

The prince, when the parliament's courier was
snioupced, was dining at a table at'which were
Oeatea a score of his nobles, among wiorm were
YordAlgernon, the Scottish'lord,'Catesby, and
last, not least, Arthur of the Red Hand, earl of
Villiers.
When 'the prince received the pacquet from
she hand of Lord Rudolph, who was the mes-
eager, his' l*ow darkened as he perused it, the
expression of his face being all the while closely
watched bj  his friends, who forgot the banquet
in their anxiety to learn the news from England.
But when he came to the close of it, a smile
curled his lip.
"News' from London, my lords!. You will
excuse me while-I withdraw to give a response.
My lord," he added, addressing the Earl of Vil-
.   liners, "you will please retire to my cabinet with
me."
He also named four other noblemen, and then
rising, he took his leave and departed from the
banquet-room. Upon reachin   his cabinet he
closed the door, but first ga  orders to have
Lord Rudolph Vane, the courier, hospitably en-
tertained with all honor.
" See to it, Guilford!" he said,'turning to our
hero, who had left the table with him at his
'immand, aid now followed into the cabinet.
9:Youiuajesty could perhaps hardly-appoint
a less acceptable host to Lord Rudolph," an-
swered-Guilford with a slight color of embar-
ra ment.
True-..true!i I had forgotten! My Lord
Granville," added the prince, " I pray you take
care of-Lord Vane's comfort. W6 must not
treat discourteously our parliament's messen-
"
't- I obey your majesty," answered the noble-
man, retiring.-
"Now, my lords," said the king, " Hear our
words.. The brave and loyal GeneralMonk, who
seems to be standing just now in Cromwell's
shoes in England, writes-me,'that now Richard,
the son, has resigned his power,'he is ready to
offer me my father's throne, provided that I will
submit to and put my Signature to certain con
ditions,-the very conditions which will make
me recreant' to my royal father's memory,,and
be, as it were, an-endorser of the justice of hi:
murder. By' the soul 'of the Confessor, I wil
bind myself to no conditions to regain that which
is lawfully mine! !My lords, I will nevertheless
advise with you."
" May it please your majesty to read to u

such passages of General Monk's letter-as may
enalle us to advise your majesty"
," Listen !"
"'Your- majesty's restoration is the wish'of
my breast. That achieved, I am prepared to lay
down all power and retire to private life. I am
at the head of an army of ten thousand men. I  *
am encamped near London. I have power .to
wield the parliament at my will. - As yet they do
not suspect my intentions, which alone I now
reveal to. your majesty. If your majesty will
consent to the conditions herewith enclosed,  .
can safely invite your majesty to London, and
ensure you a public reception that will surpass
any public entry of a monarch since the days of
the Conqueror. These conditions I know the
parliament will insist on, and therefore I would.
get them from your hand in order that when I
propose your restoration to this body, I may be
able on the spot to shut their mouths to all ob-.
jections. I despatch my friend Lord Vane as
the special bearer of this missive. Do not delay
a reply, I entreat your majesty; and I pray do
not ,refuse to comply with conditions, without
which I fear the restoration can never be ef-
fected. The hearts of the people are with your
majesty.'"
"Now, my lords, here are the conditions." -
The prince then read from a paper enclosed
in the letter the conditions, which history has
made familiar to every reader.
"You perceive, my friends," he said, when he
had concluded,"what Chains they would shackle
us with."
"Nay, your majesty;" said the earl, "but
rather with what rivets they would strengthen
your throne."
" Ha ! think you that way, my lord i"
"I do, your majesty. The people no doubt
would receive you without conditions -. but the
parliament must be humored."
"I will truckle to none of them 1"
"Nay; your majesty, but something must be
yielded on account of 'the disjointed state of the
l times' and the imperfections of men's loyalty."
"Well, you no doubt counsel-wisely., Guil-
e ford!"
" Your majesty,"-answered the young Asher-
s man, who. stood near an escretoire, a little in the
l rear of the king. He was dressed in a handsome
h suit of plum-colored velvet, richly embroidered,
s a silken vest, and laced doublet, and his hair
Jfiwed long 'and 'waving upon his ,shapely
s shoulders. In ,the interval of two or three

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

years since we last parted with him, a change
has been made, not only in his appearance, but in
his position., The prince had become personally
attached to him from the day he had assisted in
effecting his escape from England, and gave
him a position near his own person, as his pri-
vate secretary, a situation of responsibility, which
Guilford's talents, address, and--thanks to his
mother's good education-enabled him to fill
with credit and honor. At length he became so
useful to the prince that the latter could hardly
bearhis absence ; and he always consulted him
on all matters before bringing them before his
nobles; and after any council, at which Guil-
ford was ever present as secretary, he would talk
over with him the debates, and search his opin-
ions upon what had been discussed. By this
means our hero not only made himself signally
useful to the prince, but as he always had his
ear, he held an influence in the eyes of the nobles
which gave him a consideration that even rank
would not have gained him. If any lord had
any suit to prefer, any scheme to forward, Guil-
ford was first made a confidant, with the request
tht he would bespeak'the prince in favorsof the
applicant. The agreeable person, the engaging
and unaffected manners, and' the elegant ad-
dress of the young attendant of the prince made
him a universal favorite; and even envy was
silenced, when it 'was remembered that  the
+ young secretary was only receiving in this favor
of his prince ;his juststeward in having brought
him from England 'to' France and saved him
from his, foes.
obhin, who had no talents for a court, and
who had no high aspirations, after remaining a'
few months in Paris, and hearing that the smug-
gler who had seen him in -the smack had been
shot,'returned to Brighttelmstone, where he made
the heart of the widow glfad by the intelligence
he brought of Guilford's prosperity and= favor
with the prince. Soon  afterwards he 'married
the pretty Anne, and taking'°up his abode in-the
cottage, pursued the saine occupation as for-
merly, and sometimes even going in his fishing'
trips quite to the coast 'of France, to convey
and ,Oceive letters that passed betweenthe prince
and his friends in England. There were letters;r
also, which were not strictly of a political na-
ture; of which he was 'the bearer, inasmuch as
they were handed hir eby the Lady Catharine,
and addressed to ' The Rt. Worshipful Guilford
Graham,9 Secretary to His Majesty     ri ne
Charles."

" Well, my lords, will that suit you?" asked
the king, looking round upon each face, and
finally resting his dark eyes full upon the face of
Earl'Villiers of the Red hand.
"It is as much as becomes your majesty to
say," attswered the lords.,
" Then1it shall go! Seal and direct itIto (en-
eril. Monk,,Giilford. ,sow, gentlemen, we will
return tosthe banquet-room."A'
The king's. cheerful' countenance- as he'460
entered the hall, gave all hearts hope ; ardatlien
he 'said, to cheer them; 'It is good news,' ny
friends ; the - star of our fortune ,beginsto
brighten. Within- three weeks, if nothing'Irip-
pens, I hope we'shall' see merry E gland dne
moree"
Upon hearing this-the whole ompanrofnob
exiles started to their feet ad made the hail1%
with three loud British hun as.  ' -  .     ,
The banquet was once more about : i be '
sumed, when Lord Rudolph, who was'iustd
by the king'to be seated on his right,seein0ie
Earl Villiers seated ne t to him, rose endtdiew
back, clipping:his left hand upon his sword hilt.
"What, sol How is this" demanded-'the
king.
"I have a feud of 'blood'yith the Earl' Vii-
liers, and dantiot sit by him," asnswered Lord
Rudolph,' with a fierce countenance.  "Yo r
majesty dill°Oxcuse me.' I- will at sy' hotel
await your'answer' to;GeneralMenk."
With these words, he ,quiekly'itrode'out of
the hall.                  '        .

4

"Guilford," now said the prince, after having
got the mind of the nobles, "sit thee down and
write to the gallant General Monk these words:
'We, Charles Rex, having received your fair let-
ter, give you thanks from our heart for the loyal
spirit which hath prompted thee to make the
offer of your aid to restore us to our throne. But,
inasmuch as our subscription to the terms you lay
down, which are the same in deftnce whereof
our august father lost his head, we cannot sub-
scribe to them in full; but will arrange these
conditions when we -come into England, to the
satisfaction of our parliament. We pledge our-
selves, however, and here witness our hand, that
we will do nothing contrary to the constitution
of our realm. If this pledge be satisfactory, we;
-will, on hearing from you to this effect, let
nothing delay our return to England.
(Signed in presence of our council of lords).
CHARLuS R."'

75

,


A

CHAPTER XXI.
LORD RUDOL 'H'S DATA 5DLT ACT.

Tau abrupt departure of the fiery noble
caused a momentary excitement. The prince
looked displeased. The' earl smiled haughtily,
and young Edward Percy, recently become Earl
of Percy, stole out after the noble.  .
But he had no sooner.reached the vestibule,'
than he saw Lord Rudolph draw his sword, and
with the flat of it strike Guilford, who at the-
moment was walking across the corridor.. Our
hero had remained a few moments in the cabinet
to seal and address the letter to General Monk,
and when he was returning to the hall, he met
Lord Rudolph face to face. The latter, the way
being narrowed by two columns, on recognizing
'im ried:
'stand aside, dog 1"
Guilford's sword was in his hand, but recol-
lecting that he was.the b,!ther of Lady Kate, he
suppressed his rising resentment, and was pass-
ingebim, when, as- we have, said, Lord Rudolph
struck him in the face.
",Npw, by the rood I" said young Edward
Percy, as he beheld the blow, "if Guilford-stand,
this, he hath caitiff's blood in him indeed."
Guilford, however, kept his sword poittdown,
and would have gone by him, when Rudolph
spat upon him, accompanying the act with an
epithetof derision.
The forbearance of our hero was now at an

end. He forgot Lady Kate's brother in his own
insulter.. Throwing himself upon him, he took
his sword from him and broke it upon the pave-
ment, and then, with the eye of a lion, he
glanced upon him with contempt, and was going
into the hall, when the prince and several nobles
rushed forth; having heard the scuffle.
"What means this ? What is this drawing of
swords in our very presence ?-The person of an
ambassador is sacred. Guilford, you are under
arrest 1"
"Your majesty," said the young Earl. Percy,
"Guilford is not to blame. Lord Rudolph in-
sulted him, and he bore it; he then struck him,
and yet he bore it; he then spat upon him; and
your secretary took his sword from him and.,
broke it under his feet, as you see there I"
Then it is Lord Rudolph Vane who hath
done this discourtesy," said the prince;reddening
with anger. "My"lord, I.supposed thowhadst
come hither to us as a messenger of peace, not a
maker of brawls."
" I shall not give account of my conduct to
one who has neither the right nor the power to
exact it," answered Lord Rudolph, haughtily.
" This to the prince's face !'" exclaimed Earl
Percy, with a flashing eye.
"Nay, Edward I We can forgive this nrude-
ness. " ,

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

"I would punish it, your majesty, but that he
-bath but one hand, and it would not be taking
hjm on fair terms," answered Edward.
Lord Rudolph had kept his right arm wrapped
in his cloak, a customn which he had followed
ever since his recovery from his wounded wrist.
He now thundered back, forgetting that Red
Hand was present:
"Thou liest 4"
"rWhat-! But we will make thee show thy-
self a liar 1" retorted Edward, and suddenly
tearing open his cloak, he exposed the handless
wrist. There was a shout of surprise from all
around ; and Lord Rudolph, with his left hand,
caught Edward's sword, and made a thrust so
deadly at the young earl, that he would have
run him through the body, but for the interposi-
tion of Guilford, who received the point of the
blade in his sleeve, at the imminent risk of hav-
ing his arm pierced by it.
"'This must be stopped, by our head !" cried
Prince Charles. " Arrest Lord Rudolph !"
But before he could be obeyed, the savage
young noble bounded from the corridor, and
leaping, into his saddle, spurred dway at full
speed, followed by the cries of derision and
scorn of the assembled nobles.   .       -
"Now, by our halidom, my friends," cried the
prince, "this unfortunate matter, if reported with
distorted tongue in England, will do us 'a mis-
chief and mar our fortune. He must not be
suffered to embark and bear his' own tale until I
have forwarded my messageo with the despatch-
es. After my letter reaches our general's hands,
Lord Vane can do no mischief, whatsoever he
may say. Guilford 1"
"Your majesty ..'
"Prepare to proceed at once to London."
"I am ready, your majesty."
"Then.leave atone. You will find passage
easy across the channel with the Delp ofgold.
Hese is my pursb. You have the pacquet. Go,-
and Heaven speed thee, and bring 'thee safely,
back to us with good tidings. My Lord Villiers,
please you see, that this hot-brained Lord Vane
does' not take boat till Guilford hath'been full
twenty four hours in his advance.".
I will see to it, your majesty," answered the
earl, who at once quited the prince's presence.
In another hour, Guilford was on his way to
the sea-side, mounted on a fleet steed, the letters
of which he was the bearer being tied about him
beneath his belt, which also held his well filled
purse of gold.

77

He had to ride seven leagues before reaching
the sea. He knew that he had ali-eady the start
of Lord Rudolph, who still expecting to take
back the prince's answer, had ridden to his ho-
tel. Here he soon learned, by a visit from one
of the prince's pages, that another bearer" had
been selected by the prince. No sooner had'he
been madesacquainted with the fact, than he
called for his horse and servants, and was pre-
paring to depart for the coast, when Earl Villiers
met him at the door, and said'sternly;j
"My lord, I am commanded by my prince to
detain your lordship for twenty-four hotrs."
"What ! am I a prisoner ?" demanded Lott
Vane, fiercely, and turning pale.
" That may be as you construe it. You are
not to leave the town until twenty-four hours
have passed."
" This is unbearableI and you, of all men, my
jailer !"
"I see thou lbvest me not. But one cannot
choose his friends or enemies in this world, my
lord. In such cases we must be patient."
Lord Vane looked at the earl as if he could
annihilate him, and then returning to his apart-
ments, paced his floor in suppressed rage.
In the meanwhile Guilford spurred forward,
and about' midnight, by the light of a bright
moon, he came in sight of the shining water of
the sea. His road terminated at a small hamlet
composed of a few Dutch houses. lTot a vessel
was to be seen in this harbor save the brigantide
in which Lord Rudolph had come over, and
which lay off waiting his return. This he was
bound to avoid, lest he; should be too closely
questioned, and after riding along the ecast four
miles, he saw a lonely hut, and at a little pk-
near it, a fishing lugger. 'This he sneeed&amp;4 in
hiring of the old man, and soon embarked'ito
cross to England   The 'wind was lit, but
fair, and on the fourth day he landed near Oie
mouth of the Thames, and detaining the' boat
for his return,he hited a horse and rode onto
London. He reached the nmtropolis just as the
sun was rising ol the.morning of the fifth day
since leaving the presence of his prince. Put.
ting up at at inn near the Parliarnent house he
inquired for direction to General Monk.- '
"What !"wilt thou list with him?" asked mine
host. "It is said he pays well, though' hisarmy
hath a beggarly look, and not a goon wife can
keep an egg or a bit of poultry within Orcuit
f ten miles about his catip. If'thowouldst
join him, thou wilt find his headquarters at

f

I

.
T
4
f
4
IS
rF
1
}
i


78  '  .               HE YQIJ1G
Smithfield; but if thou wilt wait an hour thou
wilt see him go by here to his house, near St.
James's palace, where he does business with the
Parliament."
" The Parliament are governed pretty much
by the.genbral'g opinions, are they not'?" asked
Guilford.
"No, sir cavilier, for they don't'know exactly
what' they are. The old. fellow is secret as a
mason IBut at heart, we believe he is for our
Charley overthe water, and would be glad to see
the restoration."
"And the people at large, do they, wish for
the prince'?"
"-Do they'? they would darken the very skies
wiih their caps in the air, if he should come into
London, to-day. Ah, he.is a brave prince, and
we all love him. We dare to say so, now Crom-
well's day is gone ; but once it was as much as
an honest man's head was worth to speak about
him."
While Guilford was talking with the commu-
iicative and loyal host, there was heard up the
street a shouting of men, and then the clangor
of a bugle, and a moment afterwards the cry on
all sides :
"Monk ! Monk ! Here comes the general I'
Guilford's blood bounded. ;He was more in
terested t hlan all others in his coming, and as he
rode past, accompanied by half a. dozen field
officers and -an orderly or two with a bodyguard
of eighty horse bringing up the rear, he could not
but regard with deep interest the man who held
the reins:of the power of England, not for him
self, but for the prince, his master.-
Without delay he followed thetroop of horse
and at length reached a stately: mansion, befor(
which he saw General Monk alight and enter
He was about,to pass forward .to ascend th
steps, when he was put back by a dragoon, wh4
said. -
"Not so fast, sir cavalier. No one enter
here without an order-no they don't."
* Guilford looked hard in the man's face, for h
thought he rieggnized the voice. 'But a hug
red beard and a 1erg 'moustache defeated a
first his scrutiny. But the _man himself aide
him In the matter, for, after regarding Quilfor
attentively., he said in a gratified, chucklin,
manner;,
"What! is not this master Guilford Graham?'-
' Thou sayest truly," answered Guiiford
"jbut if thou knowest me, do not speak it out s
lod  ~

"And dost thou not know me? I dare say I'
look too warlike for you to see through me. I
am Digby-four old friend Digbg !"
".Toby-Digby I Verily, you are no longer
like yourself. Thou a dragoon'?"
" Marry come up ! What would you have a
man do? I got my head broke so often by
Cromwell's troopers, that I learned the knack o;
head breaking myself. So, what -with fighting'
I got my blood up, and when Monk's sargents
came down to our town 'listing, I was one o' the
first to enlist. It's a brave life, so long as we
don't have .any fighting. But, bless us ! they
say you are with Prince Charles over the sea,
and he has made a lord of you ."
"The prince can hardly make lords where he
is, honest Digby. I am glad to see thee such a
changed man, and doing so well."
"What art thou doing in .England, master
Guilford .-
"I.would see General Monk. Can you let
me pass, forold companion's sake'
" Marry, that will I. Go in ; and when thou
hast done thine errand, wait till Iam off guard,
and we'll haye a rare gossip o' bygones."
With these words the trooper drewraside, and
let Guilford pass. Going by severalofficers who
- stood in the hall,,he came ,to an orderly, who
e stood near an inner door, and said that he de-
I sired to have a word of importance with the
I general.
t ,   Your name'?"
d    "it is of no consequence. Say I have letters
- to, him from France."
t.pon hearing this, there was a murmur in the
, hall, of surprise and expectation.from the mili-
e tary men and others in waiting, and 'Guilford
, was scrutinized with egnrisity'
e    " A messenger from.France I A courier from
o the prince I" went buzzing from lip to lip.
S His excellency desires to 'ce you," said the.
s orderly, re-aypearing after a moment's absence.
Guilford, all travel-worn as he was, entered
e- the apartment of the commanderin-chief of-the
e army. The general bent his eyes upon him as
t he came towards him, and then said courteously,
d yet with animation;
d    "Did I understand my orderly aright? D
g you bring letters from France'?"
"Yes, your excellency, from the price"
" ''rorg ;his majesty I" exclaimed  general,
; with a look of pleasure. "ut how is this?
o Where,'is I ord Rudolph 'Vane -
S'He arrived,.and pIgeed your' letters in thie

+

S

prince's hands, but, when the reply which I now
bear, was ready, he .got into, some altercation
with some of the nobles and others,}and gave
some offence to the prince, who intrusted the
letters to me, who hold' the place of his private
secretary."
" You'ai-e thenSir Guilford Graham ?"
"At your excellency's service," answered our
hero, as.he placed the'pacquet, which ie had by
this time unbuckled from his girdle, in the gen-
eral's hands:
"I axe glad to see you and to know you. I
have heard how the prince owes hisescape from
England to your. undaunted courage and con-
stat devotion.ntd '"
Thus speaking, the general broke the seal of
the letter and read it.. Guilford, who hadbeen
at Paris knighted by the prince, in token of his
gratitude, and who .also, at the same time, had
received from thedrench king the' order of a
chevalier, now marked closely each change in
the expression of General Monk's countenance.
Having penned the letter himself,he knew every
line of it, and could clearly distinguish what the
sentences were at which he frowned, and those
which seemed to give him pleasure. At length
he turned towards the secretary; and with a
mixed expression of dissatisfaction and pleasure,
he said :
"Sir Guilford, do you know the contents of
this letter'?"
" I do, your excellence."
"I am sorry the prince refuses to sign the
cotditions, but it cannot be helped. We.must
do as well as we can with what he says. It may
satisfy the Parliament. But how left you the
princee ?"'
In good health, your excellency."
"And the -arl Villiers, washe well? and
the Barons Algernon and Catesby, and also my
lord of Percy'?"
" I left them all well, your excellency."
"I hope soon to see them with their royal
master all in England. What day did you leave
the prince'?"
"This is the fifth, your excellency."
"You have made despatch. The Parliament
is now in session. I am going thither. You
must accompany me, Sir-Guilford. I will make
known to them that the prince has sent a mees-
senger to them."
-"Yes, 'your excellency. There are duplicates
of the letter you have, one addressed to yourself,
andh other inscribe, as you perceive, to the
Parliament."

" This is very good. The seal remains an-
broken, and it is addressed to the Parliamer t
I will take you with me at once to the-hall.
Your presence will 1o a great deal, as 4a courier
from the king."
The general then left the apartment, and
passing though the saloon where his staf'were,
called, " To horse 4"
All was now excitement and .motion. Every
gentleman hastened to his saddle. Digby, who
resolved not to lose the opportunity of having a
gossip of bygone times with his former acquain-
tance, had kept a sharp eye on, the-door for some
time. But when he saw him re-appear walking
side by side with General Monk, and heard the
general order horse to be brought to him, and
saw the deference and honor which thecom-
mander of the army paid to him, his amaze ent
was so great as nearly to stupify him
'Wha  aileth thee, 'manI" called'ono of h a
comrades to him. "Are thine eyes going to
quit thy head'? fall in with thy horse into the
rank. Dost not hear that we are ordered to~fall
in and trot I"
Digby mechanically -obeyed the order., t
he shook hisihead, and with a downcastlok,he
said to himselfao
"fMy gossip is all up. Master GiIlford h44
become a great man. -,.I heard b. was alord,*
and it must be true."
'At the' door of the House of Commons, en--
eral Monk alighted and entered the hall seav4 g
Guilford in the vestibule. When  o k q
that the Commons had still come to no dec
and seeing that all hearts were for the prince,
though not a lip dare utter hisname, e steod
up and said:
. Gentlemen, the time is come when England
should have rest. No plan of, govermne t has
been proposed. I will propose none; but I Jhave
just placed in the hands of yo rp sident o thew
council, a slip of paper, -on wbhfih ,Iec hastily
written a line with a pencil : w" llrplease
read it aloud, my Lord ,Annexey."
Every eye was fiyed upon ths president.
hearts throbbed. . ith lious expectation,
Some thought It would give them the infora
tion that the prince was privately in Lonon.
Others, that General Monk himself .ad ta ten
this method to make known his own intentopq
of assuming the protectorate. The president,

Here Guilford showed him a letter whiph
prince had given him in casp it should be el
for.

'I

'     ,
"i
,
,
.

I


THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.                81

however, soon removed all speculations by read-
lng as follows:.
General Monk desires to make known to the
House of Commons that a messenger from the
p$nce arrived in London this morning-"
Here there was such a sensation and demon-
strations of satisfaction so loud that the presi-
dent could not proceed. At length, order and
silence being in some degree restored, he re-
sumed :
"The messenger is the private secretary of his
majesty, Sir Guilford Graham, and is now at the
door of the house, waiting to deliver a letter of
which he is bearer to the Commons."
Upon hearing this, there was one universal
shout that rose from the members of the House,
-     and cries of " Admit him ! Admit him !" were
heard vociferously.
As Guilford entered, bareheaded, and walked
up the aisle, escorted by General Monk, nothing
could exceed the delight and enthusiasm with
which he was received. The members, says his-
tory, " for a moment forgot the dignity of their
situations, and indulged for several minutes in
loud acclamations of applause."
Modestly, yet firmly, the youthful baronet, Sir
Guilford, walked up to the head of the hall and
placed the letter in the hands of the president.
The hill was silent as the tomb while the letter{
vas read. When it was concluded, or rather
while he was reading the final sentence, all at
once the House burst into onie universal assent of
the king's proposals, and immediately a, vote
was taken that the letter should be published.
A vote of thanks was also passed to Sir Guil-
ford ; and as all had heard of him as having been
the person who had taken the prince to France,
there was a twofold motive for their crowding
around him ando.verwhelming him with con-
gratulations. He was taken home to dine with
General Monk and a large party of lords and
gentlemen, and bore all his honors with a grace
and modesty that won all hearts. The same
evening he left London with the answer of the
Commons and an invitation to the king to return
and ascend the throne. The bearer of such joy-
ful news, he could not obey the impulses of his
love to turn aside to visit Castle Vane, and he
hastened as fast as spur and wind could carry
him, to rejoin his prince, and lay at his feet the
triumphant results of his mission. Upon land-
ing frogf- 'te fishing lugger, which had taken
him safely back to Holland, our hero delayed
only to reward the owrier of the boat, and then

mounting his horse, which had been kept there
in waiting for him, he took the road to the town
where the prince held his little'court.  -
He had not ridden, however, but a league and
a 'half, when a woman called to him from a
wretched house on the roadside, and, asked him
to cone in for one moment and see a man who
was dying.
Prompt to obey the impulses of humanity,
Guilford dismounted at the low door and crossed
the threshold. By the light which came in from
a smali square window above a miserable truckle
bed, he saw to his amazement, Lord Rudolph,
lying. and in the last extremity of life. Upon
seeing him thus prostrate, all resentment fled
from Sir Guilford's bosom, and he spoke to him *
in the kindest manner, and asked what he could
do for his repose of mind ; for he remembered
Lady Kate, and that this was her brother. .
No sooner did Lord Vane hear Guilford's
voice, than he opened his eyes and fixed them
glaringly upon him.
"What art thou come for!, Thou, of all,
men !" he said, gasping. "Bring the Red Hand,
and then I shall be well attended."
"My lord, I am your friend ! Can I serve
you!"
"Who art thou ?"
" Guilford Grahanm."
"Yes. A knave ! Thou wouldst rob me of'
my sister ! Thou hast bewitched her-thou and
thy .mother ! given her love portions ! Avaunt !
I despise thee ! I spue at thee!l"
"I am sorry, my lord, to see you lying here
in this condition. How has it occurred !"
But the nobleman had exhausted his strength
in his last efforts to speak, and lay panting and.
glaring fiercely at him., .-
"His servant robbed  l shot him near by,"
said the woman. " We found him.bleeding and
insensible nine days ago, and brought him in,
where he has grown worse ever since, and raves
and curses fearfully."
"Yes-I have cursed thee and Lord Villiers !
See ! One has robbed me of my hand !" and
here he held up the inflamed stump of his wrist,
and shook it at Guilford; "and the other .has
robbed me of ihy sister !"
"My lord, you should cease to think of wa iy
matters," said Guilford, kindly. "Turn your
thoughts heavenward, for methinks .that thou
hast not many minutes to live."
.  "And these I will spend in cursing thee, and
t telling thee how I hate thee. Thou a baronet!f

Thou a prince's confidant ! Thou take my
place as courier to the Parliament. I spit at
thee ! 'Go and tell Red Hand the robber that I
spent my last breath in cursing him and thee !"
"My lord, I implore-I entreat, for thy
sister's sake, make thy peace with Heaven "-
But Guilford paused and said no more. The
fallen jaw-the set eyes-the motionless face-
all told him that death had claimed his soul. -
"Poor man !" said the woman, "he is out of
his misery's
" Poor man !" ejaculated Guilford, "Ifear me
he has but just entered upon his misery."
Then reflecting upon the wonderful train of
circumstances that had brought him to be pres.
ent at the death-bed of Lord Rudolph, he gave
directions to the woman about the care of the
body, and'remounting his horse, galloped on to
the next village. Here he laid the matter before
the mayor, and left with him gold to have the
body properly prepared to send to- 'England.
Having performed this duty, which both love for
Lady Kate and humanity prompted, he hastened
forward on his important.mission..
Upon reaching the palace of the prince, his
majesty was pacing up and down the corridor,
with Earl Villiers in conversation, while several
noblemen were lounging near in groups. No
sooner was the rapid rider'recognized'to be Sir
Guilford Graham, than his name was.repeated
by twenty voices, and Charles,. stoppingiin his
walk, waited to receive him, :,with his ,mWd
extended in welcome. Passing by the eager
nobles, Sir Guilford reached the king, and drop-
ping on one knee, kissed his 'hand, and .then
placed in it the letter of the Commons. The
king tore the seal, and first read half through it
to himself, when, seeing that it was all good
. news, he read it aloud:

" Therefore, we, the Commons of England
do accede to your majesty's propositions with
joy, and do invite your majesty to return to
England and ascend the throne of your fathers,
*nd we will ever be your majesty's loyal and
faithful subjects, and ever pray for the health and
life of your majesty as in duty bound."
"First, let me embrace thee, my trusty friend
and welcome bearer of such good tidings," cried
the king, with tears in his eyes, clasping Guil-
ford to his heart before all his nobles, while they
rent the air with acclamations of joy, such as
the Dutch palace and the honest Dutch people
had never witnessed before. The earl also em-
braced Guilford, and so did Edward, Earl of
Percy. That day and night were passed in the
most pleasurable enjoyment, and in the reception
by the king of the congratulations of the author-
ities of the town.
-In a few days afterwards, King Charles and
full two hundred lords and gentlemen left the
town for the coast in an imposing cavalcade.
Here a ship of war, the very Leviathan whkf'
had been so:near capturing him, but which ba
now changed masters, was waiting to receive
him by the order of the Commons, and beanhim
to the shores of England.
:  On the twenty.ninth! of May, 166o,o Charles
entered London," says the history ofthat event,
"-on his birthday. An innumerable conepo rie
sof people Jined the way wherever he passed,,ad
rent the air with acclamations. The'very skyf
was darkened:withthe caps of the people, an&amp;
rent with their shouts of welcoxrie. They had
been so long distracted by factions And'tyranhies,
they .rejoiced with unusual enthuslasm,:tqsee
the king once more seated in security  . upon his'
throne."

4

THE YOUNG FISh ERMAN.

1
Y

,
.      '                                      ,
'3
' . 'fitp""°"
f  '     "                                   °
"             «!
.
V
L
t '
S
I f^ t
{
Y
"                              i
{
. '
,s


THE inhabitants of the little' fishing 'port of
Brighthelmstone were one morning thrown -into
no little emziterment bytlhe arrival of a. brigantine
in the port, the sails ofwhich were: shrouded in.
blackand the flag wreathed with 'crapewhile
festoons , of it ,hung front mast : to 'aust. At
length a boat landed;.and fremthersailors; after
the ofmcer bad proceeded, to Castle Vane, the
good folks learned that it contained the body of'
Lords Rudolph whohad been.muidered in: Hol
lanl and for who5s body 'the nariquis, his
father; had sent.  .
A procession of boats escorted it to the land-
ing below the castle, where it was received by
the father of the young nobleman. The same
evening it was placed in the family vault, and
the ensuing moi-ning, the brigantine, firing a
requiem of minute guns, slowly departed sea-
ward.
" This attention to the obsequies of my mis-
guided son, I learn, from a note from Earl Vil-
liers," said the marquis to his daughter, as they
sat together in his cabinet, talking of the dead,
" we owe to a Sir Guilford' Graham, the king's
private secretary. Hast thou ever heard of this
knight, my child, and knowest thou why he took
this pains to honor my son ?"   _
Lady Catharine's heart beat rapidly. She
colored, and was about to make some confused
reply, when he further added:

" The Earl Villiers further says in his note
that the king will hold a 'grand levee at the
palace on the first Wednesday of next month
and that he desires that I should be present, and
accompanied by thee. But-"
'"Buy what, dear fatherI"
't bNecomes-us to mourn for Lord Rudolph.
"'Yet -we need' not enter intothe festivities.
All :t1le friends of the king are, hastening r'to,
Londdn'to do him homage."
"True; and as Lord Rudolph was of the op-
posite'side, I shall be looked to 'to make a
more particular eqiressiOn of attachment to tlye
crown."
"You will then go, dear father ?'.
"Yes. You may have everything ready."
This permission filled the bosom  of Lady
Catharine with joy. She was young, beautiful
and gay, and desired to see something of the
world from which she had been so long shut
out.
"Besides," said she, "I shall see Guilford in
London, for I learn he is in high favor with the
king, and honored and loved by all men."
With a happy heart the charming countess
left her father to make preparations for the com-'
ing visit to court.
At length the eve of the great day of the
king's banquet and levee arrived. London was

THE Ot Nd FISHERMAN.

crowded- with the nobility and their families.
One spirit  of satisfaction and delight pervaded
all men'es minds.
The Marquis of Vane and his daughter were
at the mansion of the Earl of Villiers as his
guests. The daughter of the earl, the fair Lady
Jane, shone with surpassing radiance abbve 'all
other maidens save Lady Kate. The two became
very intimate, for they had known each other in
earlier years.
"And you are to marry to-morrow the hand-
some Earl of Percy, fair Jenny ?" said Lady
Catharine-to her, friend, as she was arranging a
circlet of bridal dialnopds.
"Yes ; and I am told' by my father that yOu
are to marry.the brave Lord Astley."
"Lord AstleyU! I never saw hi I" answered
Lady Kate;-with great positiveness:
." Well, that is odd. Both my dear Edward
and my father told me to-dsy thatlyou were to
marry the noble Guilford, Lord Astley."
"Guilfod, ,0o you :ay his name 'is?"'
" Yes; but why do you blush so ?"
"Did I "
"Indeed, yourface tells the truth. So we are
to have'a Lady Astley to-ihorrdw'ft the palace,
as well as Lady Percy ?"
"I aestre you, dear Jenny, it'is'a mistake' I
do not know IJord Astley. I only was surprised
at'the coincidence of a name."
At thip inoment Red Hand, the tall and stly
earl, came in, and'smiling upon his dknugh e
asked "Lady Kate if she- had heard any n   s
from court that day in particular,
No my lord. i have not been out to day."
"Father !' 'exclaimed' Lady Jane, "did' ydh
not 'tell Me that Lady Kate would probably
niarry Lord Astley to-inord w ?"
"Yes, I think I id," replied the earl smiling.
"'It is a mistake, my lord." I do not know his
lordship."
"But are you not to be married to-morrow,
fair lady ?" asked Lord Villiers, slily.
"How did you hear this, my lord ?" she an-
swered, in beautiful confusion.
" From Edward, who is an intimate friend of
Guilford Graham, who told him, as a great se
eret, that it was all arranged, and that you were
to be married to him before the king's presence,
in Westminster, to-morrow."
"(My lord, it is true ; but not to this Lord
Astley."
. "But suppose--no matter. I will not tell
what I see he has kept a secret. I wishyou

joy.. You will have a, husband'so worthy in
Guilford Graham, fair Kate, that no nobility can
emulate him."
" Thanks, my good lord."
'Ah, I know all your romantic loves. Guil-
ford, to whom I owed my life once, told me the
whole story; and a creditable one it was to you.
but hither comes Earl Percy. So I will leave
him to entertain you ; forI have to attend on the
king."
"My lord," said the earl, as-he 'entered. "Is4t
true that the 'king has appointed yon com-
mandbr-in-chief and full admiral of the fleet 'i"
" Yes, Edward   he conferred the pbst upoi
tne'yesterday, and next week I go-onboat ray
flag-ship 'at Portsmouth; for we are- going to
have war soon with Spaih.
" What is' the'nathe of your flag-ship ?" asked
Edward.'
" The'Leviathan, our old' fi-end."
"fHow'fortunes change in this life, ejaculated
the ydung earl.
"Do you know who I have chosen as ry se4
ond' in command ?" asked Lord Villiers'
" No. It is likely the Duke of ent.?'
"No. Lord Astley."
"What, "Guilford ! I am overjoyed'. Do yu
hear, Lady Kate ? How does it pieaseyou V"
" Is it possible, my lords, that I have misttatu
derstood you 'all thiitinib; and 'hat duilford
Grahatn and' Lord" Astley, of whone I hear s
much, ar4 oih and the 'saniepersone '
" Yes ; that is it," 'answered the"earl, with al
ierry laugh. ""And'it is odd'fon are the last to
know-that Sir Guilford wa# this 'mrnaning ennoW
bled with the title of Earl' ' of"Astleg,,and'thy
rank of post captain in thernavy."" '   .
'Ti joys and surprise ofTIndy'Rsate'werea-
pressnel fathei- by er tears ttan by hbie smiles,
though both struggled' fort'he mattety on'lii
happy face. She felt that her constancy, as well
as the-self sacrificing spirit of Guilford, had been
amply rewarded ; and that after all she was to
give her hand to a man her equal in rank every
way, and one of the most popular men in the
kingdom, who had the confidence of the king,
the friendship of the nobility, and the respect of
the people. Well might she say, as she cast
herself into the arms of Lady Jane :
" This is the happiest day of my life i"
The next day the palace was the centre of the
thoughts of thousands and tens of thousands, of
every rank and degree. The nobility flocked
thither to banquet with the king and behold him

CJIPIER XIL-
BQR  VANE -AND LADt CATHARINE AT COURT.


84

THE YOUNG FISHERMAN.

in state elevated upon his throne. The masses ! right in the end, and ends sought through wrong
came to see hip pass in'procession fromthe ban- doings will prove evil instead of good.
quet hall to Westminster, where the bridals  If our readers should ever visit the little fish-
were to take place.                        ing town of Brighthelmstone, in Sussex, the ruins
At five o'clock the ceremony of the marriages of the Castle Vane may recall to their recollec-
commenced. First the handsome earl of Percy tions this story. If they inquire for the descend-
led to the altar the lovely Lady Jane, daughter ants of Lord Vane, they will be pointed to Astley
of Red Hand, Earl of Villiers. She was given Castle, a mile in the interior, where lives the
away by her father, and the beauty of the happy present Earl of Astley, the lineal descendant of
pair made a lively impression of pleasure upon Guilford Graham, the first earl of that name.
the vast assembly.                          Over the gateway it will be seen that the arms
Next advanced Guilford, Earl of Astley, lead- are a tower with two oars crossed, and the motto
ing by the hand the charming and constant "LOYAL EN TOUT."
Lady Catharine. At the sight of this pair amur-  At the foot of the ruins of Castle Vane is an
mur of approbation ran through the cathedral. ancient stone cottage, which any one will'tell
The history of Guilford was well known, and a you, if you inquire, is "King Charles's cottage."
thousand eyes sought'fo rest on the face of one If you go to the door and ask why it is so called,
who had risen from a humble fisher's boy to be a stout fisherman in the yard mending his nett
the confidant of his king and the peer of lords will answer, that many years ago, in " the old
of the realm. In height, in comeliness of air, in Parliament times," the Prince Charles was hid
commanding person, there was no high-born there one night before he got away across the
baron of them all who were present who sur- channel. If you ask the man his name, he will
passed him.                                 tell you that it is Robin Rengivell, and thathe
The king himself gave away the bride, and at is a descendant, iu the eighth generation, from
the conclusion of the benediction by the venera- Robin and Anne Rengivell, who dwelt there in
ble Archbishop of Canterbury, the sacrednessof the Parliament days, and Robin was one who
the place did not wholly suppress very animated aided the king's escape.
applauses and hearty wishes for their future  If you go into the little graveyard, you will
happiness.                                  see a sunken grave-stone in one corner, on
We have now come to the close of our story. which, with difficulty, you may decipher as
For further information of events that followed follows :
these times, our readers are referred to the pages  ere lyeth ye body of Toby Digby, who
of history. As a romancer, we have taken but a di  ghting valliantly for his king and country.
page out of its records, in which we have en- Peace to his ashes." f
desvored to show that virtue,honor, probity and  The descendants of Earl Red rand are still
.    courage, rightly directed by laudable ambition, among the noblest of England's aristocracy, and
will bring a man to- the highest pinnacle of his it is an inexplicable characteristic of the race,-
wishes ; and that to succeed in life, it is not ne- that every eldest son of the progressive genera-
cessary to mark our'path with guilt, or mar it tions is born with a distinct impress of a minia
with dishonesty. The right will always come ture red hand upon the inside of the left palm.
THE END.

Tr little seamstress sat alone inher chamber
atthe hour of sunset, one summer's day, looking
out from her half shaded window over the great
green lawh that stretched across from the cot-
tage in which she lived, to the pure white houses
that nestled like so many birds'-nests, among the
trees and shubbery, profusely growing upon the
other side.
The hour was the calmest nd the holiest in
tile long summer day,-the only one in the whole
twenty-four when Peggy used to lay aside her
work, and sit idly by her open window, looking
out at the fresh scene before her. Sitting idly,
did we say ? No, no ; her thoughts were busy
within Ar ; though she sat there alone, she was
never -lonely. Her mind would paint for her
pictures far exceeding in sweetness and dreamy
beauty those before her eyes, and in her rich'
imagination she lived .a life fewtothers %now
aught of. She entered a' woi'ld'she could call
all her own; or if It were peopled, she peopled'
it with her own fancies. It had greener grass,
and sent ip sweeter, purer fragrance from  its
flowers-than did thy world before her little win-
6

I

dow. Its trees hung down their leaf laden
branches nearer to the ground, so that she walked
among their cool shadows, and hid her thoughts
from the world within the quiet of their atmo-
sphere,
Peggy,-.-the little seamnstress,--was habitually
a dreamer. Not that she ever let her fancy run
wild with her reason, or suffered an oblivious
mist to obscure from her every. dad' vision the
realities thatcrowded themselves about her; yet
she dwelt much in a fabled land they call dream-
land, always happiest, and her face always beab-
ing most brightly when she was off in the revels
of her imagination.
Yet the workings of her imagination were'ail
gentle, and they threw such a holy light about
her generally placid countenance, that people
who looked at her as she, sat alone at her aham-
ber window just at summer eve, or. in the
village church, when the hartnonies of song
carried off her soul to theglories'of other realms;
felt that she was a different being from theta '
and that she was almost too pure, too sare4st
earth.                                +

N N

'1I

[PROM GLEAsoNI PICTORIAL DRAWING-Egon COMPANION ]
PEGGY DAAWESON.
BY GEO. CANNING HILL.

:1

A

t
\ p
t'/l
" tJpp
t                          s
7


86                               PLEGGY I
Her form was delicate and fragile. She was
an orphan, and had for many years been so ;
and when she tripped gaily along on the fresh,
green sward from house"to house, or stopped by
the garden wall to-pluck an ambitious 'rose that
had climbed just high enough to peep over into
the street and get a look at the outer world, peo-
ple all thought, "Ah, how happy we.should be,
could we only enjoy what little Peggy Dawson
does I" No one ever imagined that she couldbe
any the less happy, because she did not have a
large surplus of this world's goods of which slye
might boast ; no one ever thought, in thinking
- ofher, that the possession of money, and the long-
ings and cravings after happiness, had aught to
do with each other.
For some five or six years, the little seamstress
had now been at her occupation. In its rounds
she found enough work with which to satisfy her
wants, and leisure enough to gratify her most
romantic desires. We say romantic, because we
mean romantic. In fact, and to. eoncehl the
truth no longer, Peggy Dawson was a romantic
girl, so far as the, estimation of the village was
concerned. She was romantic to them, because
their optics were not suited to the inspection of
her fine nature. 'Whenever she left her work at
evening or intruded some little upon its exac
tions at early morning, that she might r o and
perform with her blessed mite, some ch Writabl
deed among the poor, people generally were to
apt to associate her charities in their minds witl
their own sordid and selfish eilpulations. The3
thought she visited the poor that she might pos
sibly be the gainer in the end, by an exhibitio
of hercharities. They set a pecuniary price of
her every good, deed and -lind and affectiouat
expression, as if she allowed her soul to chaffe
in coldness about the commonest charities tha
so felicitously illustrate the history of some mem
bers of the greatahuman family. No-no ! non
of them understood righly the heart of the little
seamstrels,-r-albeit they all envied her hersmi
ing countenance, her airy walk, and the pus
happiness that -always seemed to encircle hi
like a dreamy halo. Little'Peggy Dawson wi
much more of a character in her native villas
than mauy--many others, whose worldly circus
stanceswere far better. .
The seamstress, we said, sat all alone in hit
-little chambers on the-aummer evening .to whit
we Faye made reference, resting her chin upo
the.palm of her left hand, and her elbow up
the window-sill, thinking over the good in h

)AWSON     -
little world that was yet left undone, and trying
to project much more kindness that remained to
be done, while the slanting rays of the setting
sun streamed through the leaves and the shub-
bery into her room, when she thought she heard
a light step at her door. ,   -
She had but little company there, and what
she did have, were mostly of that kind that called
not for' any social purpose, but to transact ne-
cessary business, or attempt to pry into her se-
crets.
"Come in !" sweetly called out the voice of
the seamstress.
The door, slowly and carefully opened, and the
lady with, whom she boarded entered the room,
holding a paper in her hands.
"1I thought you might be lonely this evening,
just as twilight was about to come on," said
Mrs. Gray ; " and so I came in to sit a few min-
utes with you. This is a lovely evening, Peggy,
isn't it ?".
"O, yes indeed," responded the little seam-
stress, her eyes ever open to catch the glorious
' sights of beauty that nature spreads out so lib-
erally before us; "yes, indeed; I enjoy the cool
f evenings so much ; they remind me so much of"
t heaven'! There is such a quiet, too, in the air,
- that I almost breathe more softly, for fear of dis-
turbing th calm thoughts that crowd upon my
e mind, at this time."°
o   " You enjoysitting atyour window, I suppose,"
said Mrs. Gray.
y    " Indeed I do," said Peggy ; the little world
before it only suggests the thoughts of another
a world beyond these tees and-that line of sky;
n and I grow more happy in thinking of the clear
e skies, and cool shades, and gentle winds that will
r greet me in that other world beyond l''
t  " Here is the paper from Bostow, to-day," said
a- Mrs. Gray; "I thought that perhaps you might
e like toget alook at it: .you know it's little plea-
le sant to know once in a while, in a quietlittle vil-
1- lage like this, tliat there is a worldoutside of us,
re where other people lives and labor, and die, all
er unknown to us.",
as   Peggy's father had been a sea-captain. He,
ge had a son and a daughter, Willlkm and Peggy.
a- He died, leaving both his children with no money,
afterhis.own debts were liquidated, andhad given
er up in fact all hopes, when he lay on his death-
ch bed;'that William was then alive.  ,
n-   William went to sea a couple of year before
on his-father's death ; and as no-tidings had reached
eit his friends concerning him singe his departure, it

87

was the universal belief that he had been lost, at
least, Peggy thought that she~had not anear rela-
tivelivingn the world. The few letters of- his
which she had in her possession, were letters he
had written her after leaving his parent's roof,
and while waiting the approach of the day on
which he was to sail. These she treasured like
rare jewels, and continually read them, morning
and evening, day and night, as if they could afford
a gleasm of real, heartfelt consolation to the poor,
lonely orphan girl.
Mrs. Gray sat some time with Peggy. When
she went down again, Peggy took up her paper,
and commenced glancing it over.   All that
lookedlike news, especially shipping news, she
devoured with eager interest. ' Then she looked
in the'list of deaths, and then ran her eyes over
the chapter of accidents and incidents. But no
tidings from any one bearing the name of Wil-
liam Dawson ; not a single- solitary syllable.
Had the busy world forgotton him ? . Had he not
a place with other men upon its theatre? Were.
not his services as valuable as those of other
men ?-she reasoned to herself. Yes, Peggy;.
you reasoned rightly, because you only obeyed
the human rules of reasoning ; you loved a lost
brother, and that brother was as dear'to you as
others',relatives are totheir hearts I
Finally the little seamstress cane to the column
of advertisements -headed " wants." Not that
she thought that any one' in the outer world,
away froi her quiet little village green, could be
in want of services she might better render than
any other person ; but because only she wished
to learn what people were doing, and how they'
were living, and 'what their occasional wants
might be; as if mayhap they ought, in the-nature
of things, Itobe any different from the wants of.
those who do not live in. large cities, but are
hedged in by the rows of elms and maples that
set the limits to their village, and by the indis-
tinct line of sky that bounds all the practical-
world with which they have'any acquaintance.
As she read and read along, her eye kindled
at reading the following advertisement:--
" WAnnD.T-Nine or ten active 'and skilful
females, as seamstresses in alarge establishment,
to whom the most liberal wages will be given, if
they can be permanently hired. Apply at once
ant o. -H       street, Boston."
-Apply at once I" repeated Peggy, after read-
ing it overto herself. "i wonder if I could do
any'better there than -herein this little village.
Myearnings here are very small;:and thoughto.

PEGGY DAWSO.

be sure, I get myself a living, and have -a mite
for making glad the'hearts of others, stillI have
a mind to go to the city and see if I cannot do
better there. They always say that better wages
are paid, there ; and I do -not believe that my-
expenses would be much more than they ate
here."
' \So she mused ; sand so she was -musing with
her paper lying in her lap, and her head resting
on her hand, while she sat gazing out from hey
window upon the green, when we caught glimpses
of her through the deep shubbery that h'alfeon-
cealed her.
We thought her an uncommonly beautiful
girl. The rose was on her che~e, and the light
lay hidden in her sparkling eye.- Her long, raven
locks fell in rich and luxurious ringlets over her
fair shoulders, looking-themselves surprised that
they should be permitted to come in contact with
such marble whiteness. There was a classic shape
to her head that one could not but observe at-firet
sight. In fine, she was evidently a creature
formed for a higher and better destiny than the
drudgery of the workshop.
The little seamstress lay awake long after she
had retired that night, thinking of the prospects
of a city life. Already she had:counted her
whole annual receipts, and if anything, s great
deal more too, and hil gone into a careful arith-
metical computation of al. her increasing-expen.
ditures. She thought that she could do'better in
the city, and full of the thought, she composed
herself for a night's sound sleep. But sleep was
a long time coming. Her eyes were never in-
clined to be wider opened, and her brain never
seemed to be so busy with its plot and plans as.
then. She had pretty much made up her mind,
in fact, before she could get 'to sleep,.that on the
next day but one after, she would get into the
morning stage, and without itnparting a knowl-
edge of her errand. to any one, would settle the
question of moving permanently, by going di-
.rectly to see the advertiser at his own establish-
ment.
When the morning of the day came on which
she was to stgrt, she was stirring early in her
little chamber; the windows were wide open,
and the room all placed in perfect order long
before the hour for breakfast. Her reticule was
crammed -full of the many small notions 'for
which she thought she might possiblijhave some
use before her return, and her travelling:dress
never seemed to fit so snugly to her neat little
form before.

7
t

I

t
r

ti


88                     PEGGY DAW ON

Presently the sharp crack of the coachman's
whip sounded.under the old elms.on the green,
and the coach-wheels were making their marks
in the soft award-in front of the door of the cot-
tage. The door of the coach flew open,.the steps
were piled down, Peggy with her reticule, was
inside, and with another crack of the drivier's-
long lash, all, were rolling smoothly away to-
wards athe great metropolis.
- This was the source'of new life to the feelings
of the little seamstress,--this riding off at early
morning in the mail coach. She had been used
to sit all the long day alone, seeing no change,
nothing to excite her spirits, having nothing
broken or uninterrupted in her prospect to look
-     at. She grew tired with the monotony, or at
least she thought she had sometimes felt tired of
it, when she looked back at it from her seat in the
each, just as it was, day after day, and week
after week, the same constant round of occupa-
tion,--no rest,-.no change.
How-her spirits danced with the motion d% the'
coach, as she rolled swiftly by sweet little cot-'
tages,- all hedged about with roses and haw-
thorn, and snuffed up the air that was so deeply
laden with the fragrance of the lilac blossoms
held out.like huge bouquets, by the clumps of
bushes that stood in almost every yard! What
a different life'she thoughthe was in, and how
strangely new looked tge faces by the road-side,
that she had seen daily in the village, but had
thought little of ! She became delighted with
her. ride, and almost-wished that she could ride
in a good, large, rocking mail-coach every day
of her life. She even ceased wondering why it
was that so many people travelled about as they
did.' She for one, in the exuberance of her de-
light, thoughtsheshould like to travel all the time.
And so thinking, on she went at a rapid pace to
Boston.
-      She called duly on the person who had inserted
his advertisement in the paper for seamstresses,
and found, to her surprise, that the wages he.
offered were even better than she had at first
dared to imagine. It took her not long to de-
cide .in the matter, and in less than half an
hour's time she had engaged herself to the pro-
prietor -fghe establishment as seamstress in his
employ. She was to come to Boston the first of
the next week.,,
When she-returned to the village that night,
she narrated all her success, perhaps giving it as
much of the coloring as a feeling of self-satisfac-
tion generally allows one to give to his or her

narrations, and setting'more than one to won-
dering how she happened to be so successful
at the first trial. But no matters Peggy had
procured herself :an excellent place, and was to
leave all her friends behind her on Monday.
Monday morning at last came. ' She sat long
and silent at her little chamber window on that
morning, for it was the last she should spand in
the village for she could not tell how long  As
she cast her eyes over the neat door-yard,, filled
up as it were almost with all sorts of beautiful
shrubbery, and stretched her gaze over the dew-
begemmed lawn, on which, in her innocent child-
hood, she had sported so many hours, the crystal
tears welled their unbidden way up, and ob-
scured as with a liquid veil the entire prospect.
She did not think she could have loved any
place so well. The people looked dearer to her
than ever, as they stepped across the green, al-
though many of them had been wont to pass her
windows from day to day, almost unnoticed by
her. Then she began to realize what it was to
love home.
The next day she was at her work in Boston,
trying, by every means, to drive away the sad
thoughts of home, that seemed determined to
crowd themselves upon her. It was severe work?!.
but she accomplished it. Each day she felt more
at ease in her new situation, and 'was certainly
made the happier by knowing that after her
week's wor was over she could have something
laid aside against future disasters.
Her room in her boarding-house'seemed the
very picture and copy of the one she had left in
her native village. Everything within it was ar-
ranged with the finest taste and the most perfect
skill. There stood-her table in the middle of the
room; there was her dressing-table beneath the
mirror, and with the same bunch of flowers stand-
ing in the wine-glass upon it. There hung-the
miniature of her beloved parents,-now gone to
their last sleep, and there was the wreathofever-
greens against the naked wall,-the same she had
arranged for her room in the country. Her books
stood just in the position in which they used to,
and her chairs stood on either side of them as of
old. In fact, had one of her country friends
popped into her room, she would hardlyhave been
able to know she was in Boston, save from the
sound without 'in the streets.  -
The little seamstress was no less benevolent
than she used to }e. Now she delighted herself
with doing deeds of charity before forbidden her
by her limited resources. When she had.got

PEGGY DAWSON.

0

*

through her day's work, she would go into the
street, and make trifling purchases of some poor
apple.woman, or flower girl, as pretext for get-
ting from them passages of their history, and.to
inquire into their circumstances, in the hope that
she might relieve them in some way. Wherever
in her neighborhood she learned that a person
was sick, and that any attentions- of hem's would
be likely to alleviate the suffering, and smooth
the pillow of pain, she was ready to go. She had
carried the title with those who knew her, of" the
angel of the sick." Her hands were open to kind
deeds in every sick chamber. No one ever had
to apply to her for consolation, if she knew aught
of their distresses.
She was tripping gaily home from  the shop
ona night,-it was not more than a month and a
half from the time of her first entering the estak-
lishnent,-when a little girl came running up to
her side, as she went along, and said in an art-
less voice :---
"Please, ma'am, mother wished me to tell you
that there was a sick woman down at our house,
and wished yo would come over there as soon
as you could .                  --'
"Yes, dear," answered Peggy, when she had'
fully comprehended the place to which she wouldI
haye her go ; "after I have 'gone, home a mo.-
ment, I will come right down to your mother."
Anid Peggy hastened away'tp her quiet room, to
put up her things and arrange the many articles
that would from time to time get out of their
places.'f
In a few moments the little seamstress was at 1
the door of the lady who had sent for her. Shef
was a friend of Peggy, and had often ministered t
with her to the wants of the same sick. Nhec
knew whatiPeggy was in' the sick-room; how l
handy she was in her every movement ; how
gentle were her actions ; what inexpressible looks
of thankfulness the sick had cast on her, wIllie
she walked softly about their room; and what
an angel people all thought her, who had seen
her in the performance of her charities. : k
The lady led the seamstress into the next
room, and motioned to her to approach the bed. c
"She 's asleep now," said the  +woman, in at
whiper.-
The sight was that of a woman, lying sick I
upon a bed in the farther part of. the room.  a
The window was open just a little, letting in' k
only a trifle of the fresh breeze that stopped but
a momeAt to wanton with the snow-white cur-
tain. The sun threw into the quiet room  a v

89

stream of his golden rays, that formed bars
through the innumerable motes of dust that were
floating about above the floor. The hour was
the holy and calm hour in which the little seam-
stress was ever wont to give the rein to her mu-
sings. TJe calm, the sick person in the farther
part of the room, her suppressedrespiration, the
yellow sunset, the feelings that came to the
breast only at this sacred time--'all made the
seamstress peculiarly sad and thoughtful.
"fTell me about her ?"- said Peggy, addressing
her friend.
" I will," aflswered the woman. " Only day
before yesterday, a young looking man came to
see me, saying that he was recommended here
by a friend of mine, and soliciting, me most
earnestly to take him and his wife here to' board
for a short time, or at least, until she should
grow better. I asked him if his wife was sick.
He answered that she was ; 'and that having
brought her by sea all 'the way from South
America-i forget what port' he "Said he nailed
from-her sea-sickness had rathertinereased than -
diminished the danger of her disease."
" What is her'complaint ?" interrupted Peggy.
"Her husband said that she had lokg been
laboring 'under the' attacks of consumptiveness
before she Came here  He married her, I believe,
he said, in South America. She is an American
lady, and seems rejoiced t -have reached. her
native country again, Fearing that .she night
not live longer than time enough to bring'her
here, and have her -see her friends once more
before she-died, he took passage in a vessel direct
for Boston, and had arrived only day before yes-
erday, when he discovered that the voyage had
only retarded; rather than favored her conva-
escence."
" Hush-husk!" whispered the seamstress ;
"she is' uneasy ; I wonder if I can do ,nothing
for the poorwoman 2"  -                  
" I do not know," answered the -lady ; "if
anybody can 'do  any good in a siek-r60m, I
know that you ban,' Miss Dawson."
"Well, I only attempt to exercise the same
harity with the disposition of whi 'I was en-
rusted," answered the good'little s "red".
"I'll tell you' what I wanted of  , Miss
Dawson," said the lady; "but I fear it will be
king too much of bone -who has ever been so
kind as you have been to the sick."
" What isitfV' quickly asked Peggy.
" Why, her'husband and 'I took turns, at
watching last night, ,'nd to-night we have'no

is

t
r
r,
I
" i
a
S
y
it
4
C


PEGGY DAWSON.                   9

90             ,     PEGGY DAWSON.

watchers. Were to go and get them, I'm sure
I cannot tell. Now I thought ,that if you were
willing to sit up the greater part of the night
with this woman, it would be rendering me a
very great: service, indeed ; not to speak of the
gratification I know your many tender attentions
would afford this poor sick woman."'
"I'll sit up, certainly," said Peggy, in a mo-
ment ; " I'd rather do-it than not. I'll sit up
willingly the whole night, and-you need to get no
one to watch with me. So depend 'upon me,
and-I will be back soon ;" and almost in the
middle of an intended sentence, she left the room
and the house for her own quiet little chamber.
" How much trouble, and trial, and sadness,
and sickness, there is in the world," said Peggy,
quite aloud, as soon as she had got within her
repm andshut the door.
Yes, Peggy ; there is misery, and penury, and
sickness,,and suffering enough in this rough, un-
feeling world ; but fe* there are, who, like your-
self, are willing to condole with the unfortunate
and bolster up thesinking spirits of the wretched.,
God has endowed and trained-few such feeling
souls as thine.
Evening came.   It was quite dusk.  The
lampswere not lit- in the streets, bt just-after
eight-of the clock, the ,full-iced moon lifted its
golden circle above the eastern horizon, drawing
every triaveller's eyes toits incomparable beauty,
and lighting up the earth with a bright flood of
refulgent beauty.
The little seamstress sat a few 'moments at
her window, watching the steady tide of passers
that set in from one end of- the street and flowed
to the other, and musing upon the old days she
now called happy and innocent; which were
passed in her native village-when bethinking
herself of a sudden of her engagement she'had
made for the night, she hastily threw on ,her
bonnet and light shawl, and hurried out of the
house to the residence of the sick woman whom
she called to see just before supper.
She. entered the' room in cnpany with the
lady, and walked up towards the bed. A young
man sat by the bedsideof the sick person, hold.
ing her ji.,=in histown. It was ier husband.
" I h  . ased this lady to witch with your
wife, to night," said the lady; "and can answer
that the-care she will take of her will be perfect-
ly gratifying to your tenderest wishes."
".I thank the young lady, very much," replied
the young man ; "I onlyhope that I may have
it in my power to requitee her for ,ier kindness."

" You need hope no such thing, sir," said
Peggy, in one ofher sweetest tones; "I love to
assist the sick at all times ; and if I can do any-
thing,-no. matter what,-the least thing for
your sick wife, until she recovers, sir, I shall be
most glad to do so. I hope I really love to do
all the good in my power, sir.r
" God less you !" exclaimed the young man,
warmly, showing that every syllable he uttered
was heartfelt and sincere ; "God bless you, in-
deed," said he.
" Ah, yes !" faintly murmured the poor woman
on the bed ; "I am weak,-very weak!. I know .
I cannot live !"
" 0, Emeline !" said her husband unhappily.
" But, no ; I cannot expect to live very long ;
and I would, before I depart, that God would
bless this dear girl,'for her proffered kindness to
me."       ,
' "But I know he will !" answered the husband
to his wife.
"Yes-yes !" said the meek and resigned.wife.
The little seamstress sat herself down in a
rocking-chair, near the' bedside of the sick wo-
man, and, entered into' a conversation with her
about almost everything that- could possibly in-
terest her, and tend to draw away her attention
from her apparently fast sinking condition, She-
talked of home and its greenr lawns, and high:
climbing rose bushes. She painted, with her
words, pictures that had hung up about the walls
of her memory for years. She told of her early
loves; of her endeared brother,;. of her sweet
sisters, now resting undisturbedly beneath the
sod ; and seemed most completely happy, when
she was calling back to her mind again, the
scenes of her innocent, thoughtless, joy-crowded
childhood.
In all these matters she found a ready listener,
and a warm  sympathiser, in the person of the
good little seamstress.
Night came on. It was a still, breathless,
cloudless, moonlight night. The young husband
had retired to his bed with fatigue, leaving Peg-
gy to sit up with his wife, aaci desiring to be
alarmed at any time,when his services should be
needed.
0, what a time is night ! what a night above
all others was this to the little seamstress
There was no one beside her in the room but
the sick woman. She had long since talked
herself to sleep, and there Peggy sat by her
bedside,'alone and musing.
The moon shed-its placid light upon the floor,

*    just sweeping, in its entrance into the window,
the foot of the invalid's bed. The world without
was all still. Not even a cart or a wagon;rum-
bled or rattled -along the pavement, by which
Peggy might have known that there  was a
crowded, wakeful, gay world around her. Her
thoughts involuntarily leapt up into the sky, and
read upon the face of the moon the imaginings
with which she delightedher soul. She dreamed
herself, though she was awake. Early days, a
father and a mother, green grasses, bunches of
flowers, blue and unclouded skies,--all these
shifted their sweet appearance across her memo-
rx, like a moving panorama, and she sat still for
- a long, long time, giving herself up to the direc-
tion of her reflections. The stillness around her
drove her thoughts in upon themselves, and sit-
ting just where she did, and at the precise time
she did, it is not to be wondered at that she re-
verted to days long gone by.
She thought, of a sudden, that she heard a
scream. She started from her chair, and bent
over the sick woman. She leant her ear down
to her mouth ; she groaned again. Peggy
waked her this time, so distressing was'the sec-
ond groan.
" What will-you have ?" asked the little'seam-
stress, almost in a whisper.
"What ?" asked the sick woman, more than
hialf asleep.
"What shall I get ,you ?" -again asked the
seamstress.
"0, nothing !" she faintly answered, and gasp-
.ng as if for breath ; " I have4dreamed that I
should be called away in a few moments,-I feel
that I am going now ! Yes-I know I am !
Where 's William ?" said she, hurriedly ; " call
William! I must see him once more ! 0, how,
hard it is to breathe ! I feel as if I was smoth-
ering! Wont you open the window, darling ?
I will thank you so much !"    '
The little seamstress flew to raise the, window,
and then without a word or a syllable further,
softly stepped across the hall and knocked at the
door of the sick woman's husband.
She returned to the bedside of the invalid,
and administered to her every little thing that
she thought would tend to her comfort. And
while waiting butfor a moment for her husband,
she sat and fanned a breeze of fresh air over the
brow and temples of the' sick woman, s she lay,
upon the bed.
When the young man -came into the room in
his dressing-gown and slippers, and had learned

from Peggy how his wife felt, he went up to her
bedside, and taking her hand said:. -° . .,
" Emeline ! Do you feel worse '"
" 0, yes !" she gt'oaned out, in asingle breath.
" Yes, indeed ! I feel as if I must die,:Williamn!
Lift up the curtain of that window higher, and
let me see the' moonlight again, for the sun I
shall never look at even once more ! Yes,, Wil-
liam, I must go soon ! I only wished to te you
once more, first !"
- "Emeline ! Emeline l" said her husband, s
if he would chide her for her very feelings;
"But .I cannot help it, William ; I know it!
It is so ;-yes, yes ! Take my hand, William;
I am growing blind ! The moon has all gone
out, hasn't it, William ? I cannot see;-.-.tell me !"
" No, no, my dear !" interrupted, her husband.
" 0, 1 wish you would lay your hand on my
heart,-it beats so ! What makes me so dizzy,
wonder ! Everything swims to nay eyes, yet
I know I am not blind, for I can see the moon
shine in on the foot of my bed ; but it is paler
than it used to be, isn't it, William ? *Put your
cheek to mine, now, William ; 0, mine feels so
very cold ! Is this death, William ? Do they
call it death ? I wonder .if everybody feels so
when they come to die 1"
" Do not talk so, Emeline !" said her husband.
" I shall not talk long at all, William," said
she.
" Emelinb! Emeline !" said her husband.
The little seamstress sat on the opposite side
of the bed from that on which the young hus-
band stood, bathing the patient's temples with
the saturated cloth she held in her'hands.
"You'll remember, William !" exclaimed the
wife ; " you'll remember i I thank you,-I thank
you !" said" she, turning towards Peggy. "0,
William! If I could only have -lived till--
But it's all over now, almost ! The waters look
dark, -but I can go across safely ! I do not
fear their roaring, William ; I shall soon be on
the other shore ! Good-by, William! Good"
The words never were finished. They died in
the act of being spoken. The poor woman
dropped her lean 'and pale hands down by her
side, as if she were all wearied out with her
work, and quietly, and surrounded by a heaven-
ly calm, breathed her last breath on earth,
Her husband and the little seamstress stood
for a long time, gazing at the lovely expression
that wreathed the bow of the corpse, before
either spoke.
Then the husband turned his head away, an4

?
ry
.{
7
1
.

3
,3
-T
Y
i
.',
4
S
l
i;

,


92                   PEGGY DAWSON.

-gave way to a drenching flood of tears. And
the good little seamstress looked out through
the window at the midnight moon,,and thought
how soon she would be;called to lay herself down
and breathe her life out just as sweetly.
"She is gone 1" finally spoke the bereaved
httsband.
itYes, she rests !" exclaimed Peggy.
"Who may I thank for the tender care shown
her this last night of her existence ?" asked the
husband.
"I have not done, sir, one half.the good I
wish I could have done ; but Peggy Dawson is
always glad to succor the sick."
"'Peggy Dawson I" exclaimed the stranger, in
astonishment.
* Yes,-I am she," answered the little seam-
stress.

" Mr SISTERs I My own sister !r exclaimed
he, rushing to her and folding "her in his arms ;
" I am, I am William Dawson,-your long, long
lost brother !"
Brother and sister,-each an orphan,-now
embraced each other over the dead body of the
young wife, at that calm and holy hour of mid-
night. It was a strange place for a brother to
find' his sister, and a stranger scene for a sister
to witness-the death of her brother's wife. But
that was the spot Heaven had designed where
they should again meet after many long years'
absence, and weep in united sympathy over the
remains of'the dead.
This was an eventful leaf in the life of the
good little seamstress.

0

*

"

BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON.

CHAPTER - I.

Two persons, well mounted, were riding
through the little town of Kurnbach. Both
were young, well formed, and apparently in
good crcumstances. From their strong resem-
blance it was easy to perceive that there was
some relationship existing between them.
" This must be's lonely place to live in,"
said the eldest, whom we will call Frederic
Raymon.
"Lonely enough," replied his brother Hans.
"If I wished to turn hermit, I think I should.
come here. But there,are other parts of Kurn-
bach more'thickly populated than this. We are
in the most broken, rugged,' and uninhabited
part now."-
"I know it; but look yonder; upon the most
desolate spot of all stands the largest dwelling I
have seen in Kurnbach."
"It is probably the residence of some peasant
who owns grounds the other side of the moun-
tain," replied Hans.
"If he owns lands the other side of the moun-
tain, why did he not build his house there?
Why should a human- creature select suph a
spot to pass his daysaon?"

"That I know not; but here is an hones-
looking lad, let us ask him to solve our doubts."
"Agreed. Young man, can you tell us what
-person lives yonder in that large, building ?"
" He is called George Beman," replied the lad.
"What is his employment?" asked Frederic.
" I do not know."
"Do you not live here ?"
"Yes, just over the hill, yonder."
"That being the case, it seems to me that
you ought to know what your neighbor 1)eman
does for a livelihood."
"He don't work, sir."
"'Don't work?"
"No person has ever seen him do any work
since he has been among us, sir."
"Then he's a nan of fortune, I suppose ?"
"Can't tell you; he keeps his business all to
himself."
"What character does.he bear among you?"
" He is kind to all, and has been known -to
assist the poor in the neighborhood. He is rather
retired in his habits; and to tell you the truth,
sir, we know but little about him."
" He is rather a mysterious personage, then?

[FROM GLEASON'S PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION.]
IVA, OR THE TWIN BROTHERS.

,
r
r'
1
c              l
/S
J(
I

{


94                           THE TWIN:
"That's it, sir, exactly."
" Has he asy children ?"
" One daughter."
"Does he keep servants ?"
" Only one."
" Then there are only three persons who oc-
cupy ~that gloomy-looking, building. -Is the
daughter young and fair?'
-" She is only seventeen, and the fairest maiden
in Kurnbach. All the young men who have
seen her have fallen desperately in love with
her."
"Thee re must have a care that we do not
get sight of her," laid Hans, laughing.
"I'd advise you to, sir, by all means; for it's
not likely she'll take a fancy to either of you!"
"Very flattering indeed! Perhaps you have
made an impression on the fair one's heart ?",
"iI dare say I might, but I don't think j shall
try," returned the peasant, gravely. .
" Very cool, upon-my word," said Hans.
The peasant went his way, and the brothers
rode on.
"I almost wish," added Hans, "that some
accident woutdlhappen to throw me in the way
of yonder churl's 'dightet"
Scarcely had Mans uttered the words, when
his horse stprhbled, audhe was thrown forward
oc sr his head. Freeric hastened to dismoun
 gpto his relief. He found him insensible
asdtunable to stand when he raised him from
the ground. Sitting down beside him, and taking
his head upon his knees, he chafed -his temples
and his hands ; but he strove in vain to restore
himnto consciousness.
Finding.that his efforts were useless, and the
he was losing time, he lifted his unfortunat
brother in his arms,,.aod being a strong man
borehim, with little difficulty, towards the dwell
ing of George Beman.
" HIcannot refuse to give me assistance unde
circumstances like these, be he ever so churlish,
said Frederic, as he toiled up the ascent towar
the house.
He knocked loudly on reaching the door
'.the summons was answered by a person so ver
different in his appearance from what he ha
pictured, that for an inStant he was unable t
utter a word.
The man who produced this unexpected astoi
ishutent was about thirty-eight years of age. H
features and bearing, sofar from being forbidding
and churlish, were mild, open, and even han
some.

BROTHERS.

"An unfortunate occurrence has made me
intrude myself upon you in this unceremonious
manner," said Frederic.
"Heaven forbid that I should refuse to render
all the aid in my power to the distressed. Let,
me relieve you of a portion of your burthen. A
fall I perceive-from his horse most likely;-
bear him this'way."
Hans was soon deposited upon a couch, and
receiving every attention, while the domestic was
despatched to the village for a surgeon. Under
these kind attentions he soon recovered his con-
sciousness. When the surgeon arrived it was
found that his arm had been broken, and he had
sustained other severe injuries, and that if his
hurts healed well, and everything took a favor-
able aspect, it-would be impossible for him to
resume his journey under several weeks.
"Giveyourselfno uneasiness on that account,"
said Beman to Frederic, whom this intelligence
affected considerably. " You can pursue your
journey when it pleases you, and it shall be my
care that he wants for nothing that can conduce
to his recovery."
P  Finding that his presence could not in the
least facilitate the curative process, he resumed
his journey on the following morning.
I   Hans awoke from   a deep .sleep, which had
t lasted nearly all day. The first object that met
, his gaze was the figure of a foung female seated
near his bed.
g Hans rubbed his eyes to clear his vision, and,
s then took a- second and longer look. The in-
e pressions which he received from this s$$utiny
were most favorable to'the lady in question, who
t was wholly unconscious at that moment thatnshe-
e was the object of so much attention. .
,   " She's wondrous fair," said Hans to himself.
L- "I think I have never seen her equal. What
eyes ! what a face ' what a figure i If my neck
r is not broken, I am certainly the most fortunate
of men."
d    Hans attempted to tun.to. get a better view of
his attendant. Tbeeort produced so much,
r. pain that he groaned heavily. The eyes of the
'y -maiden were instantly directed towards her pa-
d tient, when seeing his attention so earnestly fixed
o upon her, she reddened to the forehead, and
looked confused.  -
n-   '4 You are \the daughter of my kind hostI_
is presume," said Hans, driving the expression of,
ig -pain from his features. "Do not be alarmed at
d- my unmanly groans. I moved my arm incau-
tiously."              -

THE TWIN'BROTHERS.

"I fear you are dangerously injured, sir; can
I serve you ?" asked the maiden, timidly.
" It was an awkward fall, but I trust my ill-
ness will not be of long duration. A little water,
if you please."
t  Fairer hands never poured water for a mor-
tal," said Hans to himself, as his gentle nurse
filled a glass with the pure, sparkling beverage
first used by man.
" Thank you;, I think I shall soon be well."
" Shall I call my.father 9' o  b   e
Before Hans had time to reply, the person
spoken of entered the'-room-.
witHow fares myguest to-day?" he asked,
with a kindly sd iled
" He is doing, better than he deserves," said
Hans, "and cannot be too grateful for such care-
ful attention."'
"The debt of gratitude will not be great.
Some day I may take a notion to go into that
part of the country were you reside? and break
some of my, bones, and then it will come all
right; though you would in that event, no doubt,
be troubled with me longer, for being older, my
flesh will not heal so readily as yours. It takes
young blood, you know, to heal ;bruises, ;frac'1
tures and contusions speedily. But I forgot to
introduce you to my daughter."
"  "I shallnever be}sufficiently'grateful to your
fair daughter," returned Hans, embarrassed, heJ
knew not why.-
"We aI have duties tordischarge to each other,
and I hope I and mine will-not be the first to'
forget our responsibilities in that respect," was
tho good natured reply.
Days passed on. As Hans's external wounds
healed and grew less painful, he was conscious
of internal inroads upon his heart; which threat-
ened to baffle all the arts of surgery and medi-1
cine. The bright eyes and gentle smiles of Iva,
had done their work; Hans wag enthralled. Sov
far from wishing for a speedy cure of his broken
bones, he heartily prayed that they might take'
their own time, and not farce him to leave the
dwelling of George Heman too soon. f
It ivas with a feeling of disappointment that 
he saw his wounds healing by the "first inten- a
t in."
The time passed very pleasantly with our hero. h
He had the happiness of seeing Iva every day, ii
and of conversing wi   her. To his surprise he d
found that the graces of her, mind 'exceeded,*if u,
possible, the graces of her person.,P
At length this wounds were- healed, .anl there ti

was no longer excuse for further delay. Be-
lieving that his' happiness was involved in the
state of Iva's feelings towards him, he availed
himself of the first opportunity to converse with
her on.the subject.
" Duty admonishes me that it is time for me
to leave this hospitable roof," he said with some
emotion. " To-morrow I shall leave you, but
once more before I depart, I woaild attempt to
express the grateful emotions which I feel. - Iva,
you have been to me a ministering angel. The
sound of, your footsteps in this room has been
music to me. When you come and speak, I for-
get my pain.  Your gentle smiles have done
more for me than leech or medicament. Yos
have become indispensable to my - happiness.
How' can I go hence and see you no more ?"
Hans paused to recover himself, for his voice'
had grown tremulous. . -
" Must you go so soon, then '" asked' Iva, in
a voice that betrayed more than-she desired;
" It must be thus. My hurtsmare quite well,
and I can find no excuse for intruding myself
upon you longer. But there :is something of
importance which I must communicate ' to you,
before I bid you fivoll. Iagi love you.?'
Hans could get n6 further. iHe'stopped and
looked at his fair nurse'; eiewas-weeping. Re-
assured,'he sank upon his knees and kissed her
hands. It was not Ing before he had wrung
from her a timid confession of her love, a&amp;e
when they parted they had pledged therpselves,
to eternal constancy and truth.
Mans now' believed himself 'the most happy
man in existenceand often found himself-say--
ing, " what a fortunate thing- that my Jiorae
stumbled. 
A placid moonlight night fbllowedt third im-
portant event. Hans retired to his chamber, but
could not sleep. Putting on his clothes, he
walked softly from the house. It seemed'to him
hat his room was not large enough to.breathe in
nce he had become happy in the love of Iva.
Taking the first path that he ame to, he soon
found himself in the shadow of some large trees,
which he remembered often having looked 'out
upon during his illness.
Leaning against one of the sturdy trunks that
ad defied wind and storm so long, he looked up
ito the quiet sky. He had stood in a sort of
reamy reverie for about the space of ten min-
tes, when a sound like-"at produced by foot-
teps caused him to gland  hastily about him for
he cause of the disturbance. He saw distinctly

I

rl
4
tF1
A
+40
it
JJ           +
+            4 +           t

a
96

'


I

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

a figure approaching by the same path he had
taken.. As it advanced, and become more dis-
tinctly defined against the shadowy objects
around, he perceived that it was a female form.
That it was Iva, he could, not doubt ; but for
what she could be abroad at such an hour, he
could not guess. She kept on, and passed-within
a few yards of him. She did not'go far, but
drawing her mantle closer about her, stood
motionless.
"She waits for some one," said Hans to
himself.
It was not long before another figure was visi-
ble. s This one wore male attire, and approach-
ing Iva, embraced her, while Hans heard her
say:
"Dear --" the name did not reach him-
"you have come at last. I feared I should not
see you."       k        .
. " Nothing could have kept me from this meet-
ing, save sickness or death,"'replied the other;
and Hans imagined he saw him salute Iva's lips
at the same time.
The parties now walked away out of sight
and hearing, leaving our hero transfixed with
amazement, and pained to.tliheart. He walked
back to the dwelling he had left with such sen
sations of happiness, changed in thought and in
feature. All his air-castles had tumbled down
4    and grief, despair and indignation, arose and
filled, their places. He sat down at his window
and after the lapse of nearly an hopir saw Iva
return.
Hans threw himself upon his bed, without di
vesting himself of clothing, and passed the mos
miserable -night of his -life. The "idea seemed
like a mockery of his misery, but for the life o
ima he could not help exclaiming:

"How unfortunate a thing ,that mey horse
stumbled !"
It is thus that circumstances change our views
and shape our thoughts.
It was remarked in the morning, by Lfr. Be-
man, that Hans looked haggard and '_'i'irited,.
as though he had passed a bad hnight.le ate in
silence, and it was a gloomy breakfast to all.
The horse whose clumsiness had caused his
master so much suffering, was brought to the
door. Hans took an. affectionate leave of his
kind entertainer. With one foot in the stirrup
he turned to Iva, who stood very near him, and
said in a low reproachful voice  .
" Iva, farewell! We meet no more. Last night
I saw you leave the hose, and witnessed all-
enough to prove your inconstancy."
Before Iva had recovered from the surprise
which these words occasioned, Hans Rayinon
was dashing away at fearful speed ; but before
he was out of sight, he heard a cry from the, lips
of his fair but false one, and knew that she had
swooned.
George Bemnan took his daughter in his arms
and carried her in as tenderly as he had tended
her in childhood.'
"My poor child !".he said, kissing her fore-
head. "I should have thought of this. But it
is too late now; the mischief is done."
" Has he gone " asked Iva, faintly, looking
vacantly intd her father's face.
a   " Yes, my girl, he has gone, and I would he
had never come among us.'
-   " My father, say not thus'; he has done'me no
t wrong. But I may not tell you all now. Prom-
d ise me that you will be silent on this subject for
f the present."
"I promise."

I

9                       '' }

CHAPTER II.

Wa pads over an interval of one month.
lans'had completed the object of his journey,
and was on his return home. He had ab~tit his
person large sums of money, which had been
paid him ly the executor of a deceased uncle's
will. It was dark-when he 'reached Khirnbach,
and not being Well acquainted with the roads,
he soon lost his way, and became entangled in
a labyrinth of hills, valleys and mountains. At
length the moon came up, and he flattered him-
self that he should be able to find his way again.
While standing irresolute, as to what direction
would be a proper one, a man suddenly stepped
from the roadside, and taking the horse-by the
bit, presented a pistol to the breast of Hans and
demanded his money.
Hans Raymon- was no coward, and felt rather
reluctant to part with his thalers.
"Let me pass !' he exclaimed, sternly.. "I
have no money to part with thus idly."
Yourmonef !," thundered the robber. " Your
money without delay, or I swear to you by all
that is sacred, I will shoot you through the
head !,                              ,
" I don't like the idea of giving my money
without an equivalent," said Hans, pulling forth
a well-filled purse. As he put the purse into the
robber's hand, he beat forward to get a view of
his face. He nearly fell from his horse with

surprise, when, as he did so, he recognized, as
he believed, the features of George Bernan.
Before Hans had recovered from the shock of
the discovery, the robber had disappeared.
Our hero sat-like one stupifed. He forgot his
loss; he ceased to lament his thalers ; he thought
only of the terrible 'secret he had discovered,
The words of the peasant lad were recalled
" He don't work, sir. No person has ever seen
him work since hie has been among as.vr"ee
" To-night's adventure accounts for it, all,
His work is done under -the dark cover of night.
The lad was right ; 'he keeps his business all to
himself,' in reality. 0, that Iva's father shoi d
prove to be such a man, and that Iva herself
should prove to be such a girl. How unfortu_
nate that my horse did not break my neck when
he threw me over his head I"
Filled with these gloony reflections, Hans
suffered his horse to go forward, careless whither
he went; foi  he was in that state of mind when
life seems too bitter to be borne.
Three-quarters of an hour passed, in which he
was conscious of nothing but misery;, upon re-
covering himself at the expiration of that time,
and looking about him, what was his surprise to
find himself at Bemai's door.
" Unlucky animal!" exclaimed Hans. "Your
tendency always hither, and always wrong.

I
h

0

,

1

   y
.   ,


98                 THE TWIN BROTHERS.

What new trouble have you brought me to
now'?"
The dumb creature rubbed his nose against
his master's foot without deigning any further
reply.-
While Hans was making up his mind what to
do, he heard some one approaching. lie turned
in his saddle, and beheld no other than George
Beman himself, apparently fatigued with travel,
and somewhat excited.
" Ah, my friend. Raymon, is it you? Why do
you sit in your saddle like a statue'? Dismount,
and enter," said Beman, in his usual mild and
kindly tones.
" I lost my way," replied Hans, as calmly as
he could, " and my horse has brought me hither
before I was aware of it. I did not mean to tax
your hospitality again so soon."
" No apologies, Mr. Raymon. Your brother
is already here. He reached here last night,'
was the reply.
" He set out on his return one day in advance
of me. But why this delay'?" asked Hans.
" He'was robbed on his way hither last night
and received some rough treatment that rendered
himi unfit to go forward to-day," replied Beman
in a tone of voice betraying no consciousness o
guilt, or any embarrassment whatever.
" Cool!" thought Hans, "very cool !"
He met Iva on the threshold. She recoiled
step when she saw him, but instantly recovering
her equanimity, extended her hand. Hans shool
it coldly, and passed in.  Upon scanning th
features of Iva more closely, he was surprise
and shocked at the change, which he beheld
Her cheeks were very pale, and her eyes had los
their 'accustomed vivacity. Hans sighed audi
bly, but unconsciously ; while Beman regarde
him with a surprised and puzzled expression.
" Be.kind enough to show me to my brother,
said. our hero, wishing to be alone for a feu
-"- moments, in order to collect his scattered an
disturbed thoughts, for the calmness and coo
ness of his late host astounded him. To meet
juan who had just robbed him of a large sum
* nioney ; to meet him in his own house ; to hav
'that nyan treat him with, such perfect self-po
session, and-apparent forgetfulness of what ha
just transpired, presented human nature to hi
in a light so tnew, that he knewnot how to ac
lie found hisjbrother Fredericcomforlably di
pose of in a large easy-chair.
"LAid not expect to find you here' sa

" I did not expect to be here," replied his"
brother.
"Our entertained, ells .;p eyou have been
robbed," added Hans.      =
"Then he certay tells you the truth. I
was met last night by some gentleman unknown
to me, who, with a cocked pistol at my head told
me, 'stand and deliver !' "-
" I attempted by a sudden effort to wrest the-
pistol from his hand, but received for my good
intention a blow upon the head, which laid me
senseless upon the earth. When I recovered, I
found my horse near me, for it would seem that
the considerate highwayman had fastened the
animal to a tree, in order that I might be spared
the trouble of a long walk. I attempted to ride ;
a sickly sensation crept over me, and I sank
back overpowered and unconscious. The first
idea that dawned upon me after this, was, that-
there were soft hands upon my head, and breath
upon my face. I opened my eyes, and perceived
a female form beside me, and was fully conse
ous that some kind angel was striving to restore
, me to sensibility."
1   "What looked she like'?" asked Hans, ear-
nestly.
f   "She greatly resembled the daughter of our
host," replied Frederick, unconscious of the pain
his words were inflicting.
a " Go on, brother ! go on !" added Hans, im-
g patiently.
k    " Well, the unknown female assisted me to
e arise, nfaking anxious inquiries in regard to the.
d extent of my injuries. She studiously kept her
1. face concealed by a thick veil, the moment she
t perceived I was regaining my consciousness ;
i- consequently I-saw-ier features but itnperfectly,
d but her voice was rich and musical, like the
daughter of our host."
"    Hans beat upon his breast,- and paced the
w floor like one distracted,.
d    " What ails you, Hans'? Why this perturba-
1- tion ?"
a    " Go on! you shall-know all-in good time."
of " The unknown female, with the mellow voice,
re and the face like Iva's, assisted me to-mount
s- she then showed me. the way to George Beman .S
d and here you see ltjIm, safe andsound, with the
im exception of a few bruises."
t. ",And what became of your kind angel'?"
s-   "She vanished."
"Did you observe the'face and figure of the
id robber "
"Let me consider; he was about the height

of our friend Beman, I should think, and the'
more I recall his fenturde and appearance, the
more striking doea the -e"tparison seem."
"Fatal coinciderice!" exclaimed Hans, bit-
terlye He'thenTdlated.all that had taken place
since they had parted,'concealing nothing in ree
lation to Iva and and her want of faith, or of the
robbery, and his suspicions in relation to the
author of the crime.
"sAtn unfortunate affair," said Frederic. "I
must confess that there are just-grouns of sus-
picion in relatiodi to Beman and his daughter."
"And it-is that which distressed me more than
all. You know not how deeply I have' loved
the fair Iva. 0, Frederic, a disappointment like
nrne is-hard to bear. Could I, believe that she
i innocent of all knowledge of her father's call-
ing, it woulddeprive this last blow at my hap-
piness of half its bitterness. ' But the truth
comes home to me with overwhelming force--
George Beman is the robber, and his daughter
is the female who aided you, and if the last be
true, then she cannot be ignorant of his occupa-
ton."
" That looks reasonable, but all may be made
clear yet: a more tangled skein has been un-
twisted," returned Frederic, in the vain hope of
comforting his brother. " I hope it was not Iva
who assisted me, for I have thought of the fair
stranger ever since, and Ireally begin to imagine
that I am in love."
"Frederic, I shall leave Germany forever. I
cannot remain longer; amid the scenes of my
disappointment. My property I 'leave in your
care, only requiring that you shall remit to me
such sums as I shall need to' supply the every
day wants of life."
" No; it shall not be so. I am resolved what
-   to do; I will accuse George Beman of robbery
Upon the highway ; and let him prove his inno-
cence if he can."
"Frederic, I entreat of you to be silent. I
will never consent that the father of the woman
I have loved, and still love, despite all that has
transpired, be accused of such a crime. No ;
let darkness and forgetfulness close over a trans-:
action so foul and unfortunate."
" Seek aninterview with Iva," said Frederic.
"jbut -what would it avail? Nothing. It
woufd result in pain and mortification to both."
"It can produce nothing worse than the pres-.
ent state of suspense ; therefore' I say, seek an
interviewtrith your false fair one."
"It shall be so," answered Hans, after some
rpfieotion.

Firm in' his resolve, and true to his purpose,
Hans soon stood in' the presence' of Besanittid
Iva.
"For important reasons, I crave a few mo-
ments' interview with your daughter," Said Hans
to his host.
"'there can be no objection to such a re-
'quest," he replied, and bowing, left the room.
A painful and' embarrassing silence ensued ;
it was.finally-broken by Hans.
" When I parted from you, Iva, I did not-ex-
pect to see you again so 'soon; but circumstant
ces of a -strange character have again thrown us
under the same roof. That I have suffered a
deep disappointment, you well know; but Iwill
not reproach you. I sought not this interview
.for that purpose. I will remember you, Iva,as
we remember dreams of happiness; and this
dream of mine has been as fleeting as any drum,
though it was sweet ,while it held me in its
power. I would barter all my earthly'posses-
sions to recall that dream for a single hour."
" Then it shall be recalled'?" said Iva, wiping
the tears from her dark eyes.
" Never! never !" exclaimed'Hans, in accents
of despair. "I have not told you all-a darker
page must yet be read. There have been two- 
two --robberies within the last twenty-four
hours."
Iva's face grew pale as marble.
"Both these robberies have occurred in Rsrn--
bach."
Iva wept aloud.
" I recognized the robber.""
"Father'of all! how can I exist'?"-cried Iva.
" I have reasons for believing that you have
also seen the perpetrator of these crimes."
" Good heavens ! you suspect myown father;
but I swear to you o 'my knees, and in the sight
of God, that he is innocent. Iva Beaman-never
knelt to human being before, but now she kneel
and begs of you to suspend your judgment for a
day, a single hour, even. 'There is a secret that
I may not divulge."
The sobs and tears of the beautiful  ter
stopped her utterance. Taking her cold ha ils
in his, Hans wept, and'let his tears fall upon
them.
" I cnj erse you to tell the truth."
"I will, Hans ; I am innocent, and my'father
is also innocent. .ad you not left ne in *
cruel haste, I would have explained all...
are some family matters," continued Iv
ing calmer, "which I would fain ha ke 'x

,.. t

1
f
N
t FFF7
}

4"
,y"
r'1

TIM TWIN BI O 1 LEAs.
I

0


f'  r-

gerot; but I feels that the time has arrived wlen
F; muat speak} You -saw me go forth at night
and meet a person unknown to you. That per.
son w!        e aeje  mele attire-my father's
brother's: hil _.And now comes the most pain-
ful part 1my confession. 'My uncle .and my
father *ere ;twin brothers.  The resemblance
betweenthem is so marked, that the one is often
mistaken for the other. My grandfather was a
man of fortune., My, father was his favorite
child, forthe wayward habits of Karl, the twin
brother, displeased bim. Dying, my grandfather
left the bulkof his property to my father. From
that hour the. tendency of Karl Beman was
downward.- My father generously advanced
him large sums ; but his kindness met with in--
gratitude for its reward. My uncle married a
lovely woman, who lived just long enough to
see her husband penniless, and abandoned, and
her little'daughter entering upon her fifth year.
Karl loVed his child, and my father himself has
attended to her education,- and supplied all her
wants, though he has long ceased to be on inti-
mate terms with my uncle. What has transpired
within the last twenty-four hours, leads me to
believe that he has added robbery to other sins
y but I entreat of you not to bring him to justice.
Lave to Heaven the punishment of his many
crimess."'
"May he-who reads men's thoughts forgive
me the wrong I have done you, Iva 1" cried
Hans, sinking on his knees.
" And may Heaven bless her for being a good
angel t7 me and mine," said 'a husky voice.
Hans looked up, and beheld the exact counter-
part of George Beman---and recognized in him
the man who had previously robbed him of his
purse.
" This angel," continued, the intruder, "has

tOld you the truth. I am the guilty nman. Beck-
lessness, pride and poverty drove) me t)3 the-
commission of the crini  'Iam guilty of only
two robberies, which I might :ieverhave con-
fessed, had it not been fqtl  sake of this fair
girl. I restore your moneyjigitouched; for my,
whole nature shrank froni the thought of appro-
priating it to:my.own or my daughter's use. I
shall go to America, and it is 'probable I shall
see you no more;. Iva, with you I leave the
most precious of all earthly things-my only
child.'-
Karl's voice grew tremulous, and he, was
obliged to pause.
"My only child!1 Iva,-you will be kind to her.
Conceal from her, as you value your soul's hap-
ness, the knowledge of her father's crime."
.,Karl Beman waited for no reply. He turned
on his heel and left the house toreturn no more.
As he passed out of the. room, Hans saw Iva's
father put a yell-filled purse into his hand, gaze
into his face a moment, and in a broken.voice,
say:
"Farewell, Karl. God bless you."
" What a fortunate thingthat my horse stum-
bled," said Hans to himself, on his wedding
night.
Frederic found that he'was really in love with
Karl's daughter, and that that love really had
its birtkat the-moment she had assisted hiin to
arise and, mount his horse, on the night of the
robbery. Therefore,.when he exclaimed on his
wedding day, "What a fortunate fall !" the
reader will understand what he meant.
When Karl Beman was next heard from, he
was serving with great creditin the American
army.
Thus ends our tal, .leaving all parties pros-
I perous and happy.

THE END.

a

a 4 '  Ab

-It,'

1

_e
i

..       . , ::

' .

TIM -,Tvnx


  
             
         
       
   
