
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The Round Pack .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7623
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The round pack 
            
               THE ROUND

Y  w
PACK.

titl  -ofthe  t~tt     ttU

0

13Y DR.. J. H. ROB]L&amp;SON.

iB +DERIO A. BRADY, PUBLISHER, '
22 ANN WITEET,
NEWYOL

4        .

Sy *
4 1x ' l

..
'
-i-
flr^z
1     f,
ai
" Tp.
1 r
,  Vt'  ' t     Y'
,    ..:

-Wommow

f
r rrl

4


1                                    -'
ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862,
By CAULDWELL &amp; WHITNEY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York

I

*

R 'I

r
f
i

,+

CHAPTER I.'
TH, PZDDLER AND HIS BOUND PACK.
Down in the regionHbf .the Forked Deer ;
sown among the swatips and bottom-lands;
down among the rivers and bayous ; down
among the squatters, at the commencement of
the American difficulties, stood a. comfortable
frame-house, owned and occupied by a, worthy
family of the name of Crosby. It is not essen-
tal to the 'interest of our story to he very def-
inite respecting the locality' It is 'enough to
state, that it was a country of bad- roads and
"werse'eociety, where there were more squatters
than schools, more soil than was cultivated,
'more freedom than refinement, and where per-
sonal differences were too often settled by the
ever-convenient steel-
Mr. Crosby, although past the age of military
service, was impressed into, the- confederate,
Aimy during the first months' of conscription,
anddragged from home and 'its peaceful pur-
suits. A promising son of twenty soon after
shated'the same hard fortune. Mrs. Crosby and
her daughter, Rachel, Were left, solitary 'and sad,,
by the desolated hearti-stone. The -fact that
they had nosympathy with the insurrectionary'
mbvemeit,greatly aggravated the circumstances
of the case.
The Crosbys were Federalists in feeling, and
prayed daily for the sucdes of the Union arms;
but were forced to many shifts for' the mere
matter of safety. Notwithstanding-the blame-
lessness-and circumspection of their lives, their
names were' placed on the black list, among
those suspected of 'constitutional loyalty. -In
the district of the Forked Deer, it was a crime
to be true tothe unity of the Republic.
In -process of time, the elder Crosby, wound-
ed in limb and bankrupt in health, was discharg-,
ed from his 'hated bondage, and returned home,
another victory of Southern tyranny.  The
wound that was deepest, however, was within ;
and during the weary hours of confinement,

Crosby could think only of the injustice that be
'had suffered. It costs something to take up
arms, even for a cause that we love ; but to be.
made a soldier by force,oan the wrong side of
the question, in a quarrel which we 'heartily de-
test, is an outrage on the first principles of, hu-'
mnan rights.
The Crosbys were subjected to many indig-
nitiee. The virtues of silence and patience did
not shield them from insult and menace Being
in better worldly-condition than ' most of their
neighbors, and laboring under the imputations
mentioned, they became the subjects of peculiar
jealousy and continual watching. 'Their outgo-
ings and incomings were strictly noted. It pres-
ently came to be'understood by the Crosbys
that a' surveillance' had been set upon their
actions. In fact, the disloyal citizens of Bayou
Bottom and Oak, Creek :had iorwed a terrible
'cabal' against Unionists ; and at a midnight
meeting, to which those who had the shibboleth
repaired with the greatest privacy, a committee
of safety thad-been appointed to fe'rret out and
bring to grief all those'who  resurned to differ
with them  in sentiment.' This inquisitorial
junta became, as' might have been expected, a
scourge to the loyal portion of the community.
Although these spies 'were known to infest the
place, whom they were could only be guessed
at, Isave : by those who' had appointed them to
this in*idious work.'
The Crosbys suspected some of their nearest
neighbors of belonging to this band of perseen-
tors, 'and their lives were rendered miserable by
constant -'apprehension.- This misnamed eum-
woittee of safety was really a committee of dag-
ger,.,and in various- artful disguises they had
taken peaceful .citizens from their beds and
hanged them.
On the, edge of a forest, on what was called
the River Road, the b'es of two Unionists,
suspended from a h eko  tree, swung long in
the wind. So callous was the Confederate mind,

1

r

THE

ROUND PACK:

Zile Of, xf 'tg **i be er.

16

4s-


4 THE RQU
that even women passed these mournful objects
without a shiver of horror,.or a pulse of pity.
the rei n of terror was in the country of th6e
Forlie eer. Tennessee Was given up to the
butqj'instincts of nien.
"Mrs. Crosby talked much of her conscript
son. She was miserably downcast, and worried
with forebodings. She feared that Philip would
not be patient ; that his. proud- and fearless
spirit would rebel against usurped authority ;
that some fiery word would escape him; or
that he would desert from the Rebel ranks. - It
may be imagined inwhat anxietyshexpassed her
days.v
On a dark night; in the early par't'of the
summer of 1861, a gentle rapping at the door
drew the attention of the Crosby family. The
household consisted of Mr. Crosby, his wife, and'
their daughter, Rachel. On that evening there
happened to be with them a girl by the name
of Margaret Shore ; whose first name had been
university, and by common consent, abblrvii
ted'to deg.
Meg Shore was not an ordinary person, and
we shelf havemuch to say of her at the proper
ime and place. She was just sixteen, and 4s
wild ant unmanageable as an unbroken filly.
She was akin to the Crosbys; and notwithstand.
ing her hoydenish habits and.elfish, ways, ihich
rendered her the talk of the town, Rachel liked
tier, and in those lonely days was glad of her
company.     a
On hearing the knocking,- Mr. Crosby laid
iown his newspaper, while mother and daughter
Zlanced at each other neryonaly. A sudden
fear fell upon all but Meg Shore;i to her :tha
emotion was almost unknown, She could face
any danger without shrinking or trembling, and
peril but served to call out the dauntless quall-
ies of her mind. While the Crosbys were,,
looking at each other apprehensively,Meg arose
too enthe door.    -   .     -h
Stop !" said Mrs. Crosby. "Draw no bolt-
kill we know who comes."
Rap ! rap! rap! The knocker was persistent,,
ant'theblows grew  more imperative ,The:
matter evidently could not be put. off a  ly
logger. Meg went boldly  to the d~oo , egsrd-
less  Mrs. rosby's injunction. Pus figbsek
the blt, she opened the door a little, and plac-
ing her small, lithe person, in the space, de-
znanded sharply:
Who is there.;"
For an answer, a heavy hand was laid on her'
shoulder, she was lifted front the door and
pushed gentlybackward,; and a uarn entered,
with a large bundle upon his shoulders..
"Is that the way you come into folks
houses ?"cried Meg, not it. the least intirhidated.
"That's the way I come in when I'm kspt!
waiting," he answer  , grotuy. With this re-
oider he stalked ,n the room, bending her
eath tke weight of his burden.
u"1brdn

0

TND PACK.
"It's one o' them cheatin' peddlers !" gnut-
tered Meg.
The man rolled his eyes, at her; there was
something. dating and stttling abonti them,
scarcely to be defined. It  as bft unlike that
which a surly and proud mastiff might give a
teasing cur.
" Well, Sir?" said Crosby, rather curtly ; for
he did not' like the-way the man come in.
The unceremonious visitor unslung the heavy
package of goods,' beneath which his stalwart
person, was bent,, andcarefully played it on the
eor.
" Car'y'e gibe -n. better gEfting ?" he asked,
bluntly, and with another fla-1i of his unconcili-
ating eyes.
" You have entered unasked, and what wel-
come do you expect? We keep no wayside
inn," replied Crosby, his temper considerably
ruffled.
" Men have a right to demand shelter wher-
ever it- can be f und," said the hawkcr,.moving
lia pack into'a.corne    ,.
" these are times," ,uswered Crosby, "when
we have also a right to be suspicious of stian-
gers. 'Should you enter some cabins at Bayou
Bottom as you caine into this, you wouldret.
ceive far more dangerous greeting than I hadoe
given."
" There is no cabin in Tennessee that. I to
afraid to enter. I am not a lamb, stranger11"
lie straightened up, and exhibited six feft of al-
titude, with broad, shoulders, fall and rounded
ehest.
" Certainly,. not a lamb I" returned Crosby,
dryly.
" An ox I" said Meg Shore, in an under-tone.
The stranger heard her, and favored her with
Another surly looh.
 "A  family  f excellent manners!".he mut.
tered. "There must be- school-houses in the
neighborhoolJhik.    o
" Since you are in,.sit donn," sai4 Crosby.
"' Don't break the hpok of;your hospitalty i"
said the rmorpse atranger.
Rachel arose and placedl a chair for him.
'ihng yegird!. I%,eineuber you when I
open my pack."
Instinctively,-every eye was turned upon the
ack. Itpresep4d the appearance ,f a large
undle of. tufts .tied up in a  strong piece of
enuass, Temngting. bits of ffenale frippery
could be seen peeping fro the.top of the pack
under the heavy knot pf tOe four corners.
Rachel could hardly have been a descendant
of our venerated grandmother, who lived a short
time in a noted garde, .had she not secretly de.
tired to sep stha$ corpnlent; bundle utied.
ge Shore shared the same feeling, though in a
lesser degree, for phie reason that she hbed less to
buy with. Truth obliges, us to say, that en
Mrs. Crosby ha~d an; inward ,longing. efer the
atuffas of the ungracious paddler. While she

cntemplated the round pack, it naturally oc-:
surred to her that it had been carried far, and,
perchance had been recently borne from the:
scenes of the Southern war. There were many,
battle-grounds in Tennessee, and this gruff
hawker might bring tidings from them. There
was a hope in the heart of the mother that she
might hear from her son Philip. It was not a
very promising expectation, but sufficient for a
mother to. seize upon. Preliminary to asking
the questions that came spontaneously to her
tongue, she took a silent survey of the stranger.
He was a man to be noticed. He could not'
be passed over without observation,-in any com-
pany. He wa full of strength and muscular
power, witho seeming to be conscious of it,
or hearing fo it. 'With the conquering assur-
anee of the elephant was mingled something of
the surliness of the polar bear. He had .a re-'
liable-reserve of physical force. He stretched
'out one limb and then the other, much as the
lion does when he yawns and tries his joints.
His face- was weather-beaten, -and- remarkable
for its expression, much of which was borrowed
from the eyes, which, when he looked at one,
showed the whites in a startling manner.
When those' optics met Mrs. Crosby's, she was
glad to withdraw her gaze. His teeth were
white and rather pointed, like those of earniv-
erous animals ; while ' his beard was of' a gray-
ish brown ; the mustache nearly-concealing his
i*ooth. His nose was' long and straight. He
hnid a chronic contraction of the brows. He
k oked as if all men were .his enemies, and he
.Atpected injury from  them. A physiognomist
would not say tha lie was naturally evil, but he
would suspect that he had been- soured against
mankind. Be was not a man of coarse and
brutal instincts by nature, for' his mouth was
well cut, his ears small, his head delicately set
upon a small -neck, with 'other indications of
native refinement. -Men, like streams, do not
always flow in the channels made for them, but
wear new ones, and meander strangely.
Mrs. Crosby grew afraid of him. She-knew
that there were terrible energies' within liiin ;
that brooding thought lived in his brain' that
the seeial virtues -were wanting, or had died out
by some sudden shook.
He was in no hurry to renew the-conversa-
tion. He '-took a leisurely survey of the room
and its occupants. Crosby,,who was pale from
illness, and wore his left arm in .a sling, he
passed over with little attention ; but Rachel
and-Meg Shore received more notice.
" Rachel," said Mirs. Crosby, telll Dinah to-
set food before-the stronger.'*
"Don't let me trouble you, Madam !" an-
swered the peddler, bending his brows a little.
"I have fastedastnce morning, but: I sometimes
fast days together."-
'lie glanced - t Rachel, who 'in 'ontataily
mt  edIaway'roin'him.

"If you fasted, it wasn't from your own good
will, I'll be sworn !" interposed Meg Shore.
" Folks don't go hungry when they can eat."
The hawker bowed. her the' whites of his
eyes in the fashion which appeared characteris-
tic of him.
".A tawny face and a wild eye ; the witch's
daughter !" he retorted, quietly.
Meg's brown features flushed in-an instant.
The hawker evidently knew where to strike.
"If my mother is a witch, yours must be a
dragon!' she said, as calmly as before, atltongh
hot with resentment.
"'I heard of you, my lady," sneered the ped-
dler, " as soon as l touched the region of the
Forked Deer. 'Many times has your naime been
spoken in. my travel ; and T have yet to hear
the first good thing concerning you. To romp
in the woods; to climb trees ; to creep through
hedges ; to spin street-yarns'; to mount un-,
broken colts in the pasture, and to help teigh-
bors and strangers plen/ifully to Impudence,
seem to be the chief excellences of your char-
acter. Take that for your sauciness,"
"How 'much better that is than your good'
opinion !" returned Meg. "If a mag with a
face like yours should speak well of me, I
shoold think Satan was- setting a trap for mny
soul."
"Hush, 'Meg, hush !" remonstrated Mrs.
Crosby, alarmed at the girl's boldness.
" Don't be afraid, Aunty,'till I an,"'she. an-
swered. "Never yet have I seen .shape that I
was seared of."
"You have never seen your good dam on a
broom-pole, then," said the hawker, with a
glance at the round pack.
"You are a slanderous cur!"' muttered.Meg.
Good-manners should teach you better than
'to'fling one's mother in one's face because fools
call. her a witch."
Meg',had placed herself directly before the
stranger.  She drew  herself up straight and
firm. 'Her small person was animated with
strong feeling,*while her-expression, itensified
with anger, had a wild and fierce beauty. She
seemed to glow all over with emotion ; but
when she spoke, her voice was as steadyas his.
" It needs no wit," she added," to tell your
fortune.  "That sun-burned neck will.soune-
time come to the'halter. If there isn't wicked-
ness in your looks, there was never wickeies.
in the looks of a man. Say what you will of
me; but don't fling a witch in my teeth."
The owner of the ,round pack looked her over
With soveeign calmness, and muttered:
" A game chicken t"
By this time Dinah had placed food on the
table, and, without waiting for a bidding, t'e
man drew his chair to the board and fell. to
eating. 'Thee  hs a dert'in savageness aboit
h11HA that' constantlv appealed to -the ,observer.
for notide. 'It cosdlt u be overlooked,. I:e

TffE ROTTND PACK.

9

4


s.                   THE ROUND PACK.

stabbed the cold joint savagely ; he slashed it
savagely with his knife ; 'he rent the loaf sav-
agely ; he ate and drank savagely.
CHAPTER 1I.
THE InOUL D PACK UNTIED.
The persons in the room could not help
watching him while he devoured the food.
Two or three times during his repast, he laid
down knife and fork, and becoming fixed in-at-
titude, appeared to listen for some apprehended
sound without. When lhe had finished eating,
and wiped his beard, he arose, went to the door,
and looked out into the darkness ; he then
closed and bolted the door carefully. Return-
ing to his seat, he observed to Mrs.'Crosby ,
"You have a son in the army, Madam ?"
The good woman dropped her work. The
stranger had now fully aroused her interest.
"Our son Philip ; our only sin !" she an-
*swered, quickly. " Have you seen him.?"
" Yes," he replied.
"You have brought me news of him ?" said
the woman, anxiously.
" He's among the Confederates I" he remarked.
"And sorely against his will," said Mrs.
Crosby
H's coming home soon," added the peddler.
1     " Why did you, not tell me at first, Sir, that
you had seen my son, and that my son is corning
home !"exclaimed Mrs. Crosby. "Nothing in
the house is too good for one who brings us
tidings of Philip."
" Peopleentertain angels unawares, Madam!"
He shrugged his shoulders, and the sneer on-
his lips was more marked and distrustful than
usual.
"He who comes from Philip is welcome,
though he be bur a man," Mrs. Crosby replied.
The features of the stranger looked less sinister,
to her. She said to herself: "I thought he was
stern ; but he is only sad." This was a flight
of charity, for her tluff visitor was moody.
"Make yourself comfortable, Sir, and remain,
with us the night," she added, in a friendly tone.
1" You are very kind, woman ; but before you
repeat your invitation, let me inform you that
I have no money, and that you must receive
payment for your hospitality from my pack.
I have various articles that women like,-and if
you are not very particular, I can satisfy you."
"Mrs. Crosby," interposed Meg, "does not
keen an inn ; and if she wants any of your rags,
sel buy 'em, and pay the money, as she can
well afford."
"Be quiet, you panther! or, I should more
properly say, you wild-cat. You can no more
keep still than Granny Shore herself on nights
when there are witch-dances," was the ready
answer to Meg's interference.
" One always knows where you will bring up,"
murmured the girl, turning her back on the
peddler, and approaching the round pack.

THE ROUND PACK.

" Don't be hanging round that !" said the
man. " I shall miss something soon.'.   .
"There's notoing one would take in this heap
of rubbish," answered Meg.   "You'd better
put it out of the room, and out of doors ; for
it is much in the way. One of two things must
be doge : you or it must move."
" Be quiet, girl !" admonished Mrs. Crosby,
sharply. Then, to the peddler: "We take no
compensation for a night's entertainment; and
if you have goods that suit me, I will purchase
of you at a fair price. What did my son say ?"
" That he was dissatisfied with the service,
and would not much longer submit to tyranny."
"Poor boy !" sighed the mother.
" All boys are that I" sneered the stranger.
" Permit me to ask, Sir, whom you are ?"
said Mr. Crosby, wheeling his chair so as to get
a better, view of his guest.
" A man !" answered he of the round pack.
"A man generally has a name," observed tis
other.
"Granted. A name is a mere matter of -con,
venience. Names are useful in stories, in hin.
tories, and in conversations. But does a mouth-
ful of food and an hour of shelter entitle you to
know what I am called, and those other itexeg
which you intend to ask? However, to e t
short ,curiosity, to save conjecture, to spni
doubt, I will inform you that I answer to the
name of Giles, when softly spoken."
He smiled, but the expression of his eyes
gave the lie to the lips. Rachel thought ha
looked more savage for the smile,
" Are you a friend of my son ?" asked Crosby,
" So far as friendship goes, I may be called
thus ; although the word friend is something
that I have no faith in."
" Are you free to go and some within the lines
of the.Confederate Army ?"
" I go and come within the lines of the Coon-
federate Army," answered Giles, evasively.
"You were speaking of my son, P~iilip,"
said Crosby, nervously.
" He said he should desert," replied Giles,
" Heaven forbid !" cried Mrs. Crosby, " unless
the chance of escape should be unquestionable !"
" The chances are very small indeed. Should
he try it, you will in due time hear of the exe-
cution of a deserter. His anti-confederate feel.
ings are well known in his regiment.'!
There was not a particle of sympathy in his
voice, and he eyed the good woman while he
was speaking.
wa My on, Sir, is prudent as well as brave,"
remarked the father, uneasily.
Mrs. Crosby, whose eyes had been growing
watery for the last few minutes, now averted her
head. She could not repress her fears and emo-
tions' She knew the impetuous character of.
Philip Crosby. True, he was but a youth; iut
a youth of spirit and loyalty, not. likely to
endure long the restraints of an ungenial serv-,

"(

i

lee. She felt herself an unhappy mother. She,
wept silently, as many mothers wept in the
fatal years of sixty-one and two.,
"I perceive," said Giles, "that these girls are
looking, greedily at. my pack, and I suppose I
must gratify their curiosity."
Both Rachel and Meg Shore were regarding
the great bundle, with observable eagerness,
Meg had just' approached her lips to Rachel's
ear, and whispered:
"aI wonder what is in it ?"
" The uspal assortment of peddlers' wares, I
suppose," answered Rachel, in a low tone.
" I am doubtful about that," said Meg. "I
rather think ,it's full of ammunition and such
like." Meg stopped suddenly, andwas staring at
the pack with dilated eyes when Giles made allu-
Ision to their inquisitiveness.
Meg whispered again to her friend. She said:
A " I'll vow and swear that 1 saw it move t"
Rachel laughed and started a little. Girls
have the happy faculty of being amused and
terrified at the same time. It is common for a
girl to scream with affright, and then imme-
diately laugh with delight. This is probably
because the girl-adjustment is so complicated.
Rachel, having retreated one step, took two
steps forward, to be nearer the pack.
S"If I had my pockets crammed with money,"
muttered Meg, "I would buy nothing of that
evil-looking person."
Rachel gave a little scream and caught Meg
by the arms. The latter looked at her warningly.
"What's the matter with those girls ?" mat-
tered Crosby.
By this time, Giles had approached the round
pack for the purpose of opening it. , He paused
and fixed his attention on the girls. A singular
expression came over his face ; it seemed a con-
temptuous sneer mingled with a sterner emo-
tion. It might have been interpreted to mean :
"I expect all manner of meanness of human
creatures. If I had left the room a moment, no
doubt you would have untied my pack."
"A 'fit burden for a beast I" said Meg Shore,
as if speaking for her own benefit.  " One
might as well be a donkey, and done with it l"
" A- charitable opinion, truly, Miss Wildfire.
I once killed a doubtful animal in the woods,
that measured fourteen feet from tip to tip, that
had eyes like yours, with 'white carniverous
teeth and terrible claws," answered Giles, cool-'
ly.
"I thank you for the figure," responded Meg,
" for I expected a broomstiek instead of a beast.
I didn't think it possible that you. could get
over my mother I That creature which you
slew was a royal brute, and not a beast of bur-
den. If I were you, Mr. Peddler, I would carry
a mountain on my back l Most' men would
rather go into the Army than 'tqte a parcel big-
ger than a cotton bale. Why n'ot be a negro
and say no more about it?"

The girl still affected to be talking to herself,
but she was all the time scanning the pack.
The antagonism of these two persons was re-
markable., The contrast between them, in per-
son, was no less notable than their difference in
sentiment.  They were naturally opposed to
each other. He was large and strong,, and full
of fierce 'and bitter passions; while she was
small in figure, girlish in shape, and without
his brooding and sinister aspect of mind and
feature.She was wild, and perfectly untamed;
but she was not moody nor a hater of mankind.
Her waywardness never took the form of real
malice or intentional injury, but manifested it-
self in strangefreaks and unheard-of mischief,
which, although they won her the appellation
of Meg Wildfire, Meg Lawless, and Meg 'be-
witched, her eccentricities really never harmed
anybody but herself.   There were but few
pots of similarity between the stalwart Giles
and the sun-browned little Meg. They were not
unlike in the sharpness of their wit; and blaff
as he was in repartee, he suspected he bed
found his match in this tawny but good-looding
hoyden.
Meg was not all sweetness;.she had beeu
soured by the sarcasms and unfriendly flings of
the uncharitable of the town. She did ofwn,
feel herself a solitary being in the world, and
one who would never be understood. She eel-
dom went out without coming in vexed, and
ready to cry. In truth, she cried often, sad
shed hot and bitter tears. But there was a nst-
ural spring and power of resistance in Meg that
produced reaction, spirit, and defiant laughftr.
Of her whims and fancies she could not, of
course, be cured. Had she been a boy, she
would have fought her persecutors bravely; npd
as it was, she had not been altogether. a lamb.
Meg had but one friend beside Rachel; and
that was Rachel's brother Philip, who, on an
occasion when she had been insulted by the
taunts and rudeness of a young fellow of his
own age, threw up his cap, came forth her cham-
pion, and fought a battle for her ; a manly serv-
ice which she did not forget.
"I know what the trouble is," said the ped-
dler. "I have kept my goods too long from
sight. I am going to undo this rare parcel of
goods. But there ars important reasons why
we should not be interrupted by pryig neigh-
bors. Close that shutter, girl, -and draw that
curtain close."'i
Meg shook her head, but Rachel did the, bid-
ding of Giles in a strange flutter of expectation ;
and something more, she knew not what.
" There is, I suppose, a rear entrance to this
house," he continued. " See that the door is
secured, and keep your negroes in the kitchen."
Mrs. Crosby began to tremble with fear.
What was this man going to do ? Why Ahis
secrecy ? Perhaps he was going to commit a
crime. Even her husband moved uneasily in

0


hi 1ur  dhbd-at bis  , li t +as T I   re.y ou,2T 1'd*a~ n'iit out 'of the hkp4,Ui
u~1 Ied   -1ecl' leaned i nght fthe, =v 1;  How much fdthrIe feS~ho' would huoI~  iifa,.lf 'bl;wv cl.'e   ' f.ie ''etistan ferifdd si o
wb~ itfrfdar.l M'  ed  nI tathi. Th*ts~e ied i aridst n iiif ~ds~o
one tinV  c1,  that ~e'd-~ le ikt1rited bytlie e nt r ahcaof 'Giles; ia
4 fl 6 hb n' t at 1wed' er tltetii- certain ; but his sternf e' ra  f ur therh.
Vtdr t  h               u'o e=Po  i jion you ' 1 '&amp;yt Ihalt iisie ou'f Yny astuffs- vhen
ei v.ei ani si" d1  i            I examine my bundle"Wt1hsedsrsh *d h 'e"n o r
ii                            -Ige, blo; ,  e  hes  hei re-anotien+pt6  oloe'he
Bouse two'pa  6n have beerit ofit .se  Ii e iiWs  ii~Ied-ht '76 h'1eap of fpry
n inldwih more ua al't in , such - is  eo-
Orkdsby,  riltab ae from "5; Wot id 'ate'  fi'edtl f #ttbns ,' 4' ieh Tile'Th I A oer end
hatleess exhibited e- baide able teipt rr.  t  f 3 t.~e  trY  1bepe   'edI 'ith the at-
"As I 'thought 1l" id 'Giles: '"lin het '  t'nie4r .  The-,uieok hodnb"  pp 4earaftoe
whi ile a oit bf ioodo'in inonet:'  ' 6ha i~i etegiI  d e h&amp;Vf6I3 e, notli ng beibn
(t i~aw ii"  ,e rh"   t.   d .SI  e  t -  l  1 e or  dgli  ta'r' rn"  tbe   T
Bud iiebin nteed ~!of the tmii, hael tih fdd  r anh1*ltas."l  o
he  '"1-J if i r 'e G ros  tiifM hi  st " 'Y  1 alesii1 ' Wd ! itie b hrei
(oxn little hat elost dwhipt forthis sigbi!ite rthi he 're tayowat' idepddir
ldkrkl n~sTit 'btt  z'tud 2bet adu  i° itW l ieid aet'l ies fr  ' t~e topos f the
t' elitw ashy d d Te f tiht giia t hiderchanout "f' ttk'I nmeio?e s~'trangec is.
coictmle fruth he ,' ° ted'a edentgo l:d'   things ''cdier n that ha ftrsh btI.old 'k
1 r Mniittmi t' .e   i*'a' .,; on ih' tlie' soto" ahere thatlouewairlsithae ssotVh
}wi      ti at . ' e  il "t  strIdse  hihhi'st  e" +b1  ,  "Don/be tuostrte ,l s  ' .a td?"r
tofi*  .a  !  rie     d  6  i  t"e. ir af stesft ...eatikittwo~rl~   su*  te   oi
tinyti bt  at    jst cgeltauVdte j  ee  a , a 1i o f "  i~~n h a , t' Wi 'h r '1w'iel 4f r
iat tilt    ~, dosie bakd itoei fo hn  hteror  hof trs greaIw a l ade
aisyee ned,  ertv  ie deludean itu±neiee wht 'itr;'as  e°tt~irwt aoah h
g l'eson a imnfo ki'rd-etard to te "  ntadIthiesao~ i h pd
Ait t 1 '  y4'rae 'h. The sam'wyesae  o en r 'tani3'libe niae~i'e f~id l
r    toa  ' oer iai~d.~e i a'  lol rs' a the ° Ii_ s id'et n ~tl' t e 'gue ' from.,  he   ie of
pael4  tn fief felt t' ube uita'aon    edsI d;t o'dack 'disof edhichto aen-
I   ei t it  rilo'lit the r butntasallflhe' tegth,. fa  usecadh tis it s o wie.osta
tie a  ndtbl -ir-at t ie tcfromtefbor ~ e  1Riehoiid . 'Itolsr aedwt
,to a e:iaesl thfie more mid ace to t eormae a ecpitate ree at, hedM.
hold ein the e'rstaden;'to ea utted "te"I" Cr  thrcv  . e'" dda  rd elaimed:
selhad.  s: tedsain tmoybeofa'cldf a l- &amp;~s' l' i uyr'eo
"X'dh  *'  ne,'e~~,"and pe'd "13ht!iipV'
::itudet  ws igf tbu ht.lir'  eg 'h;fs' ht:
tnpc's5mde, athe mre tmdRachel"t oftakn De aeahureierat eret hiiloe,
"1 tw;t'ish"  og "1hlcon nation ofldtrs l- hston ! 'in ~l i tt1toyu~ Rih
muoclbayd me it, frumaby. lhoul   r,'  rosbyat q  rieOc rested byiaterod$thefsire
t   cc} f  dl  pa ' u tA e lsg ed Ata  crape, a t resses.
you'aeedra Ewe 'rg~h:"  ;he~anig~raan hd~iatd arset 'fr thr ' ii


THE ROUND PACE.

s
0

The man who had brought this burden upon
nis shoulders turned his back upon the scene,
and gazed moodily at the embers on the hearth.
The joy of the reunion did not seem to impart a
ray of warmth to his cold heart.
"Be brief," he said, by-and-by, " for there is
danger in this."
These words, though full of prudence, and.die-
tated by the common sense of the man, fell
upon the ears of all in a most unwelcome man-
ner. The parents had had time for reflection.
After the pleasure of meeting, came sober sec-
ond thought. Before them stood their son,
whom they esteemed a youthful David, in Con-
federate uniform. Had he a right to be there,
according to the rules of military service? This
query chilled them.
"If you are afraid of this boy," added Giles,
glancing at Meg, " go out and walk down the
road a little way toward the town, and see if
there be any lurkers about."
"I will !" said Meg, and was off in a moment.
She had received little notice from Philip, but
she remembered that he had been her champi-
on, and ran as fast as she could. She was gone
scarcely five minutes, when she returned breath-
less, exclaiming:
" Some one is coming ! Hide him ! hide
him !"
She bolted the street-door and placed herself
beside it to listen. It was then that the cool
and cynical stranger displayed his qualities. He
at once became energetic and imperious.
" Back to the pack 1" he cried. " Don't cling
to him, girl!"-to Rachel. " Release him wom-
an !" to his mother.
He literally tore Philip away from his friends,
and pushed him down among the stuffs.
"fQuick ! quick I" admonished Meg Shore.'
" He is near, and I'll swear to tihe step. If it
isn't Benedict Watson's, its nobody."
" The villain !" muttered Crosby, arising and
taking his gun from the brackets. "I'll shoot
him I"
He cast the sling from his neck, and his
wounded arm began to bleed ; but he gave it
no attention. The man was becoming furious.
Goaded by the remnmbrance of what he had suf-
fered from first to last, since the breaking out,
and during the progress of the Rebellion, he
lost the mastery of himself. His gun was load-
ed, and .he cooked it. Giles took him by the
shoulder and shook him.
" Be quiet, man, if you would not kill your
son i" he said. " Put your musket in the cor-
ner, and go back to your chair and newspa-
per!"
Then to Meg: 'Come here, girl, and help
me put these stuffs around the boy. You seem
the only-one that has any sense left,"
Meg sprang to his aid. Her hand was steady,.
and her motions quicker than .a juggler's.
Crosby stood scowling, clasping his gun.

lIip

Mrs. Crosby ran forward, and embarrassed the
labor of Giles and Meg by her flurried efforts to
render assistance.
" Rachel, make your mother sit down !" said
Meg. . "We never shall do anything if we are
not let alone. Come ; don't be useless I"
Rachel, with some difficulty, got her mother
away, and succeeded in calming her father.
Meg's fingers flew nimbly. She heaped the,
stuffs upon Philip deftly.
There was a knocking at the door ; an inso-
lent, overbearing knocking; which persecuted4
people do not like to hear; which gives them
cold chills ; which makes them shudder.
' Philip stirred a little ; there was an avalanche-
of stuffs ; the dry goodswere in a heap again, and
there was nothing for it but to replace them.
Rap I rap ! rap ! It was continuous. Crosby
set his teeth together hard, and looked wishful-
ly at his gun, which he had leaned against the-
wall in a corner. He inwardly asked, "lHow
long shall these things be ?"
Meg's hands flew like the shuttle of a loom.
It was wonderful bow soon the pack because
round again. The corners of the canvass were
drawn, they were knotted.   Giles lifted the-
heavy parcel and placed it near the wall, in the
obscurest part of the room. ;Ie sat down be-
tween it and the hearth, and said :
- " Good people, on your sense and prudemw
depends the life of your son."
Then to Meg : "Ask who is at the door, anal
then admit him."
CHAPTER III.
TM noUNriPACK, A SEEN BY BENEDICT WATRO7SN
" Who is there 1" screamed Meg, with her
mouth near the latch. Some one answered:
" Open and see."
" Go away I" said Meg.
" I won't I" replied the voice. "6Let mue in."
The girl pushed bank the bolt, and a man en-
tered.
In person he was large,.clumsy, and awkward.
He had feet like small gunboats. He had abund-
ance of muscle, but it was not rightly a por-
tioned. His limbs were long between -the joints
and without symmetry. His shoulders were
-square, his chest flat, his neck long, and his
head hung. out of balance, always tipping one
way or another. His hair was light-colored and
straight,. his eyebrows sparsely grown. His
nose, to all appearance, had a broken back; or,
in other words, it was bulged and crooked: in
the middle. It seemed a fitting vessel to go
with his feet ; but, large as this feature was, it
was more than matched by his ears, which
flanked his face on the right and left, like over-
grown oyster-shells. These useful appendages
were not only exaggerated in size, but set out
from the head in a; remarkable manner. In
looking at them, one got the impression that
the man was made for th6 ears, and not the eara

.11


12                             -I,=    ROE
for the man,  ia handi, eeo like -those:of a
heroic statue, intended totehow alifeuaeetaid
considerable height. The, finger had e*ollen
joints,,the ,basksF were .brown andhairy:;and
they were not, n  el for Parisian; gloves, or to
press -the .palni c lady fair.. They wete -ill:
-fashioned member..  iisi mouth was ;on of
those rgnpopsible ,mouthstsat aalways bry to
:iple,. i- maifestatlonsof ahilden iiagazine of
virtues.
HEe wall ed in slowly, looking out:from under:'
#s-brows. Not an ye was lifted-to greet.hii.:
,Crosby,-A thougki1hot with wrath, cfieeteditoide-
your the printed characters onzthe sheetwhich
,hewas.oldiagebefore hire, :Hisawife bent Aver
;ber knitting..:Bahellibg taken:up: some woet.h
The cynical man,, Gies,; reaaimed where.he;had;
,placed hiwself, intmood 1silene.
A Quakeretin', ireokini"' said Benediut
Watrous, ividiousy.
Mrs. Crosby: bad-presence ofmnd enough.to
point to a chair. 'Watrousedragged- it -toward'
the, fire,:and' thus intruded .himself within the
$amilyscircle. Evil to those wbn,,for evil,-stedl
into that, saezed .ircle.. ,He ;placed :himself
where h   eould see Giles without effort, -and
favored .him .with . constant attention.  The
round pack Joioed asicaneaet, as -any pack -of
its size. Although;,its last adjust nent; on ac-
oountnof its hureledaeps, lacked the, perfection
and completeness ofits first,ltgavie-to outward
liudicatini that a young fe  w was within it,4sit-
tiug upon a thick blanket, witir hisikneestdrawn
to his chin, and his heela.flexed upon lys haun-
ches, with multitudiauns pakiags around him.
Th eposition.ofPhilip,; though not :painful, was
eertainly not orntfortable.  0oe yardsof cot-
ton.st!ff, drawmareud. himdIikes a great .band.
age from front to hack, keptahim-steady,, and
relieved what would otherwisenave been en-
stant tension onhis-muscles. Fortunately -forr
Wlip,.be wap ernalI-icr pierseniand rather-dight
weight ; the first being favorable to the size of
the pagk, and the.flatterto-the-:shoulders of
Gilea.                        40
SBegediet Watrous:did knot:aller-the pack to
es e, prying glances.
" hl   th;fi ee ..news ?" Orosbyasked, with a
bad grace,  -.;
"Plenay jon't  It f.ies-throughthe:air.like
birds' .anawered-Watrous. "TheYankee Aboe
lit onis . aregettid their;gruel wherever found.-
'The . onfederates ,are- doctoring ithe sick man
with ,pill-and .lanoet. Some NorthStar -chaps
were ;hanged 4ogn ota Deer .Creik yesterdays
4AaronuyFiness J r'y Eiekett, and sch,,arinafter;
more .of then ,yer U*ionista,  old. Tennessee.
'll  onha~ clar o' traitore"
"Isaunet sure of that tI saidarosby. " What,
more ?"
"Nothin' of. no consequenee;  Your son,
1'+), has, deserted.". ,     :t
\Matrous' eyeasglite   with triumph.

-t

IND PAS.
"H*:dd you know" demandedCrosby.
"rotn arman.rightsfeomn Corinth, where his
regimentpia-stationed. =There -ar'n't no mistake
saboutityandithevreihuntin'for him right smart.
Haven't ye heerIes'ot1"
"Naotwaordl' rospondedCresby. And then
it occurred to him,-for the first tin-ie-since the
-stet ofithe roped :pack had -come out, That
Phili-p-had deserted  It--was singular that this
truth hadmot-nashed upon! him before ; but the
.surpriseand bewilderment of the ,meeting, to-
-gether-withl its hurriedness; had pushed every
considerationnout of-sight.
--Mrs. Crositygroew-.alarmingly pale.  She
wondered: at-her ownstapidity, and trembled at
Philipls-danger. This seilnt cotieternation was
contagiops ; it affected Rachel and 'Meg with
similar nemotionse  They looked at each other
with! mute4surprise. Even the features of Mat-
igaret Shore; becamewhite.
" Do you think theywill find Philip?" Crosby'
.asked,,iwhen he. had mastered the :first thrill of
terror.      +
+"'-Therea no :doubt don't l" replied 'Watrous,
with emphasis. '"How -kip he' git 'away when
all this..yer- kentry -is dawn on -the,'Feds.- If
there was a Fed hid in, a hay-rick, within -fifty
miles of here,=and thiere.wasa hay-rick on every
cotton-patch, that Fed would be found."
, Mrs. Croehyinvoluatarily looked at the round
pack: Watrous fhllowetd her eyes.
::" Do :they know- which' way he 'has gone?"
continued -Croby,.with faltering voice.
F-ell, neighbor, i reekin that our folks
knowstjest-which-wayteateer to start him from-
cover. I am sorry on your =account, and- on -
your wonlan's. account, -that-youtr son showed
the white Leather. Butit'a-a dreadful example
to-set-afore the-kentry,-which needs all the help
it can gtb=to',whip! the- invaders- f our sile ; a
sile which is jest as sacred as'the silo o' Vir-
ginny, orany other State. --Durned:if it'isn'ti!"
Heaswiiveled round-in--is-ehar,-rmaking every
joint of it squeak. He looked at Giles and
asked :
"New in these yer parts, stranger ?"
"Iwas here in, 850 whelnthere was consid-
erable talk :abouta-trial whiehbhad just taken
place ; a-atrial for "horse-stealing," Answered
Giles,quietl.'-
Watrous;grew ged: in'the face, and hitched'
hisechairtoward-Meg. Crosby-eeijoyed' his con-'
fusion ; for it was his father tohom-Giles had
alluded:- Having put sontetboceo-in 'his iouth,
Watrous said:           -
"A peddler;   : ih Shouldn't like to tote such
a bundle as that yer. About a year ago, some'
of' our wild :chaps =dcked a. peddler in the
river.'
"Perhaps they-would like-tor duck me ?" an-
swered Giles, showing the fellow- a wicked pair
of eyes.
" What kind of godbe them, Mister ?"

4
Y;
1

.13 -

Watrous stowled and tried. to. intimidate - display bravado, agdfumbled in his puokets for
Giles with an.ugly expression.               a weapons. Presently, ie pushed, into-sight the
 "Such as I choose to tarry," was the,;brief handle of alvery foraijdalile in, t -t"e#,.fo-the
reply.                                       same ,object that. scarecrows:are.pat.into coxn-
"I. asked," muttered Watrous, " because    fields.
want to buy-; so-open-your dlunnage,-mnn, and  Giles smiled with disdain.
let .me pull 'it over, Got the money in ,My -  "You Mar-like to know who be ;,if which
pocket.  My woman sometimes wants ;a few      is the caseou'd ought t" be.gittin' white round
things, for she rigs rightnsmart.- The chil'en, ,the wattles ;, fr I'm  one o' tlean cocks that
too, need a few traps, though, liil'en,. as a never rutns .  ay from, ateel.  've beou pitted
gin'ral thing, might as well-gp-naked, like the  ire times nr Iiva got fingers on both. hands ;
nigs." .ad the man isn't nowhar which:-ever sed me
To state the simple truth, Benedict Watrous's lose ,.battle, Jlut don't be scant. Q9 'pozwnt
children ran at large,in a state of natu,re. 4  o!,Crosby,:;which s,nis eman, wit a.nice wife
tow-shirt dressed them  for all seasons oftthe and gal, i'll let yo  ff, providi'you.hest tap
year. They were not expensive creatures.,i He .thsat sank ,without.more of yontu lip,"
might have had;a hundred of them without be :,Gilea smiled again, but did nop.tlfiok worth
ing any poorer-prvided he could have.obtain- while to answer.
ed a hundred tow-hirts t and a corn-ha suf.    "You were speaking of my son Bhilip" in-
ficed to make a good one, with a, matgin to terposed Mrs. Crosby. "As a neighbor and a
spare for patches. It is a great thing. to live in man, I beseech you to tell me the truth, EBare
a state of nature, in a land of hog and hominy, they indeed got upon lys teaek ?'"
Watrous was a hog-and-hominy. man. Cracked      4 Wal, you'may go light, on that, l. lady.
corn and fried swine made the very blood that They're arter him, dead sure ! le won't have
was in his heart. Negroes cracked the corn anxi  time, so to speak, to flap his wings and brow
fried the swine4  Re was a representative being afore some o' the Tenth will show him 'the
He was a' fitting person to know what was rot} colors o' their hey'nets. -He'd feel the prik
ten in constitutional government .lis prayers o' steel almost afore he knows lie's out o' liant-;
were swears, and his olerhmeh a cock-pit  His and I shouldn't wonder if he should make as4-
saliva was tobacco-ju ice,,and.hisbreath whisky. det, jerk  t hemp or cotton. I don't say it to
lIe carried a b-,wie-knife and a. pistol, and he work on your. feelinks, nor nothin' of that;.as
beat Mrs. Watrous for not. feeding his game, Im. a neighbor and a friend and wouldn't re-
cocks. He.had Clippers, and Germantowns, and joice in your misfortings."   1
Tartars, Black Redbrea-ts,. and  Red Black-  -Meg Shore noticed that whenever Watrous
breasts, Sumatras, and Javas, Indians, and Mex. was speaking, be looked at Giles or the oyoupd
icans ;. and the father of all fightingknows what pack  Sogething mischievous, was evidently
besides.                                     in the squatter's mind. Her anxiety for Philip
".As I came along," returned Giles, "I saw  increased.. Sh4 was impatient,.as were others,
some naked children wrarfgling in the hikory for him to go. But too faithfully were these
shade.   Uad they been clean, I think they feelings shared by the parents and sister. ~ Often
would have been white, Farther hack among did their eyes wander to the long, clock in the
the: trees, I espied a crazy shanty, such as the corner,.tlIfte black hands of whici mdisate4 ,be
white trash of Tennesseevlive in." ,        hour of eleven.
" What you tr'in' to come att.ypu low ped-  Watrous knew that.his presence in iced pain.
ier ?" demanded Watrous,, bristling..  -    He was consciousthat thae heart of, the mother
'I .was going to remark," observed Giles, was. throbbing with:unspeakable suspense, He
with characteristic immobility of character, caught an infernal inspiration -from t the inward
"that if I.lived in that shanty, I'd tie it .to a quaings of the familyy, ie s4ae up his mind
tree, to keep it from blowic' away o nigh ts."  thatPhilip wAa- tthe lyse, This coc)usion
" What's that to me ?" growled   Watrous, gave him revd pleasure..  is bal mind glowed
" Durned if I :eare what you'd do ! Don't go with aatisfaetipit. wh~ieh ir tried to conceal.
for to call ie' a nig or a white trash , for lAt there were eyes there, as observant asp his
I kuowed1 a man to dis' par onet. for lesasnor own; judgments as gogd; .intuitonsbetter,.
that yer. Jae was a peddler critter too, that  ]fargaret, Shore, sitti g~ silently An a dark
chap war."                                  pook of the   mnpey,.neyer with lrew her a.ttenz.
' That don't surprise tne, Bea Watrous," an- tints from iin,,and - she . so"i ,caIe  to hve no
swered Giles. "That peddler was -robbed I'll doutf hiefeelingaand, miotives.  .
wager ! Should search, be made in the woods,   "Yo won't opoew that yer sael,,wpn't.yer?"
near the ahanty I spoke of, what's left of. him  said Watrous, chafiughis seraggy-beardedchin
night perehaoegeJefeund."             -      against; the buck-hopn ,handle of, nis knife,
The,coolness ani self-possession-of Giles had which he had .rorked upward from is brspte
an apparent influence ever the vieitsismnind of -pocket.s         ;
lie squatter ; yet le, thougbtit necessary to  ."You o    eeaidentally hit upop the ruth 'h

TlIE. RoT2TD 3J(.

i
-


THE ROUND PACK.

14                             THE ROUND PACK.
retorted Giles. " And as it is time for honest had floundered rather doubtfully for a pretext
people to go to bed, you had better be traveling or retreat ; and the -last quibble suited him
toward your shucks. There's a hole there that best.0
the carpenters made" (he nodded toward the   "On my own heels or with steels, strangers
door), "and you are advised to go through i4 andthe steels may be from three inches to three
immediately."                             feet, and not a pin-feather car' I. Come out,
" Don't go for to bullyin'," said Benedict, mister, and be out down I Come out, you dung-
belligerently. "I can't stan' that yer. You'll hill-cock !'
git hurt, you know. Didn't I tell ye that folks  It was observed by the family that Watrous
sometimes die'peared hereabouts? They van- kept well out of the way while mouthing these
ish, they do. I don-t want to be hard on ye.; belligerent expressions. -Giles advanced upon
but I'll speak my mind, durned if I don't ! How him without deigning to parley, and with the
do I know w at your politics be? '"You may be -intention of tweaking his nose, if he. could get
a nigger-stealin'yoed for oughtn't I know.' How near enough; but the wariness of Watrous de-
do- know but you're Srunnin' cotton acrost the prived him of that satisfaction. The instant he
river for he destitute Yankees ? Now you te was outside, he retreated a rod or two, for pr
ear'ful, or you'll be looked into!  You'll be dential reasons, and then threw back a volley of
hauled up, young man ! There's them the bus  th iiats of the most provoking character. His
iness of which it is to 'tend to sich things."  me ices embraced the house and its occupants,
"I 'own niggers that are smarter than you, and were of a startling nature. - .'
Ben Watrous ; so don't be chaffing, but get up  Giles closed the door upon epithet and oath,
and leave. If you don't go right soon, I shall and stood again by the smouldering fire, look-
help 'you'; and when I help folks out of doors, ing anxiously at the round pack.
they go sudden."
Giles' voice was as cool and deliberate asC
ever; but Benedict Watrous did not altogether           CHAPTER IV.
like it.. He tried to recognize the man. He    TIE ROUND PACK PAOKED ovER AGAIN.
had been looking bard at him all the time ; but  All eyes were instantly turned upon the
since Giles had called him by name, he looked strange peddler., There hopes were in him. He
harder. His 'inquisitive eyes' received no di- had shown courage; he had displayed remark-
beet answer. The peddler, although presenting able firmness and self-control. The man who
a. countenance not entirely strange, remained had brought their son Philip on his shoulders
recognized by him.                      would undoubtedly stand by him.   At first,
"I'm  at a neighbor's. house, you Yankee they thought he had a bad countenance; but
trooden-nutmeg peddler, and durned if hell see now his stern face looked to the mother like an
ins pitched onto by you. ' I'll go when he tells angel's. Gone from her view was everything
one to go, and not afore."                 sinister. She turned to him for counsel. Her
Like the snail, Watrous was drawing in his lips did not move,, but her eyes asked ques-
horns.                                    tions.
Giles arose, and opened the door. The squat.  " He'll' be back !" said Crosby, moodily.-
ter, was perceptibly astonished when he saw him  " The scoundrel has gone for help. Were ever
unfold himself and straighten up.' He thought: people so harassed ? ' As for myself, I have
" Will this peddler keep growin' taller?' -  reached the end of wit and i vention. I do not
He didn't anticipate seeing such shoulders know what to do with that boy."
and' such a chest. Like all bullies, e began to  " Let me out 1" said Philip, from the pack.
shrink, and to east about 'for 'a convenient ex- "I had rather be shot than doubled up in this
ease foe his Cowardice.                    manner and smothered.  I am tired of being
"t ar'n't.in fighting' order, to-night, stranger. folded like a chicken in an egg. You'll make
I'm under cow, some'at. I've been moultin', so no more round packs of me, if I once get out of
to speak. That is to e say, I've bad a sickness, this trumpery stuff.".
and one o' my 'chil'en -lays' atthe pint o' death  Meg ran and began to untie the knot.
with the measles, which ppts a abalaucholy unto "What are you about ?" asked Giles.
me. That's what the matter is. Then, agin, I  " You can see," answered Meg. "He won't
know what's due to the presence of wimming, be safe in' this, and cock-fighting Ben will soon
Here is lovely ones he-e, for which you may be here with assassins at his heels. I saw him
thank 'em for your life. F never would fight quizzing the pack. He guessed what was in it.
where there was wimmiflg; but you jist folder Would ou have him run -through with a bay-
me unto the other-side o' that door, if you want onet ? I'll wager my hand'that they'llstab the
to know what a future 'state is like. I'll fight bundle through and through1" -
-ye on my own heels or with gaffs. Durned if I  "I will not bet, nor should I wish to win,"
won't I" 'said Giles, gravely. "I've no mind for a brown
While Watrous was making these remarks, he wife, subject to nocturnal flittitags. But you are
was edging from Giles and toward the door. lie right, nevertheless. Ben Watrous did stab the

pack ; he stabbed it with his eyes. The lad
must some out. Give him birth, girl!"
Meg's small supple fingers struggled some
time with the great knot. She conquered it by
and by.   Up rose a young nman; up rose a
young man in Confederate uniform ; in thread-
bare Confederate gray ; in false colors ; in exe-
erable guise.. He stood before them all,'a living
falsehood.  They had labeled him "Rebel";
but that he was not. He was a fine youth of
twenty, and loyal to the core. He was no walk-
ing gentleman, but a real person, subject to all
the common human emotions. He was plain of
speech, and said what he "meant. He was so
much like every-day people, that he sometimes
slapped grammatical rules in the face, an4 even
dropped his g's on occasions. But he was a
good-looking dog.
As he burst from the round pack and stood in
the midst of the fragments, in spite of the dan-
ger, he laughed in Meg's face,  Handsome.
good-natured,, reckless fellows have it pretty
much their own way with the girls ; ao he
chuckedd Meg under the chin and kissed her,
saying:-
"1For your nimbleness, Meg ! It is the first
thne I ever knew you to be useful. How you
dii flirt the things on me, to be sure ! Well,
there wasn't much time to lose, was there? I
won't be swathed again in a hurry."
"Keep your distance, Phil!  I don't want
yaur patronizing airs or back-handed oompli-
monts, neither," said Meg, curtly. She thought
ha under-rated her. She was piqued by his free-
and-easy ways, and thought, " He is conceited.
Row I hate conceit!"
"Mother," said Philip, '" don't be cast down.
I'l get out of this, in ohe way or another.
Y' h'e made up my mind to run the risk, and I
shan't give up as long as there's a chancee' I'll
shoot that Ben Watrous, yet 1 How easy hon-
bet people could get alohg'if'it wasn't for knaves.
Don't cry ; don't !"
Philip patted his mother on the arm.
"S pose that they do shoot me-; won't that
be better than dying in battle' under those
abominable seven stars'? If there's anything I
hate, it's that infernal rag ! Think of my tramp-
In' after it, to' the time of a nigger fife and
drum! A ad the nigger drummer was, a crip-'
ple; PIl be hanged if h, wasn't! When one leg
was up, 'tother leg was down ; and tetherr leg
was -four inches the shortest. Now,' perhaps,
you call that going' to war,. with pomp and cir-
cumstance; but promote me, if I didn'6think
we 'were'runnin' after the Comic Almanac Man!
My captain was 'a corn-cracker, andspeltpig
with 'two g's." tkp
"You must think of something else beside
spelling pig with two g's," said his 'father.
"We don't know what to do with you."
" The Uonfederates '11 know, if they get hold
of me,'t uns4ered Philip,'with a shrug.

"My poor boy !" exclaimed Mrs. Crosby.
" Light of my eyes 1"
" A  dim light, mother," responded Philip,
pleasantly.
" A Northern lightI" said Meg.
" Miss Wildfire has had a joke," returned
Philip. " Pm afraid, however, that I never shall
gleam on the northern hills, or paint silver pie-
tures on the northern snows. I wish I were
within the Federal lines."
The young man sighed.
" Why did you not escape to the Federal
pickets, instead of coining here ?" moaned his
mother, rocking her body to, and fro. "You
havelost precious time. My eon Philip ! My
only son!"
" I wanted to see how father was, and to look
upon you and Rachel again. In great battles
I've noticed that a great many young fellows
have been killed; and if a young fellow be
killed, he cannot very well come back to see
his friends ; so I thought I would forestall such
an accident.'
r" Come !" interposed Giles, scowling. "Hew
much more of your time are you going to dawdle
away ?"
"You savage giant I" cried Philip. "I owe
you my life ;- pro-mote me, if I don't !"
" I shan't owe you mine, if we stay here much
longer, because I, suppose I'm vulnerable to
musket-balls!" grumbled Giles.
" Tell me what to do, Giles, and I'll do it."
"Button up your coat, and let's start; or,
what is better, change your clothes, if you've
got a citizen's suit. There's nothing'for it but
to lead a miserable life in the woods, huntedby
all the traitors of Davy Crockett's district, till
we can find our way to the Federal lines."
" I'm afraid of that plan," said Crosby, shak-
ing his head. "Some. :f our good neighbors
are watching the house, before thistime. If you
could get to the river without being seen, there
would' be a tolerable chance."
"The fords are guarded," replied Giles, mu-
singly. ',Youhaveia Committee of Safety here,
haven't you ?"
" An organization thus called ; a secret band
of murderers, in reality. It is this vigilanee
clan that makes the town more dangerous than
Paiis was in the Reign of Terror. There are
but few of these secret. agents at Bayou Bot-
tom, but they pre full of guile and mischief."
"There'll be no need of doing anything, if
you stand talking in this fashion," said Dreg, de.
cisively. ' en Wetrons won't..let the grass
grow under his feet. lHe has but a mile to run
to get saompsoldiers; and, if the soldiers are not
in barracks, he twill have JJerry Pickett, Jones
Thorne, and Aaron Furness, out of their beds,
and armed to the teeth."
"In my opinion,' observed Criosby, "those
ime:. are already stirring,; for en Watrous is
as fond of company as a wolf. Wolves go in

tI'

tf
.
'-           ,   A
,  .
";1
',  }'.i


18                              TIHE.ROUND PACK.
packs. and so to these informers. It waee.the  "I  my.ister's elothesV" aaid Phili Qe
fear of those very, persona.that madeime think these?"
thst an attempt toeget away  onJi be extreijie-  Rnaobgl cen  ek. ~  ~wil
ly perilous.-I know the nature of'imy netgh- ."Come, tbili " she sa       wi f     on
bore, Mr. Giles."                          in no ti     o e P nrry,! ,M is,the beAo  n,
" Let me thank you, Sir, for yourgoodness to and ta' t  bygl."
my son," nrurmured Mrs. Crosby,  w  , uiver-  "G, py,'tciB ut p les.
i     v chin.  "' pt YOU forget ypuref.                                  ll.not e-
lever inifd it, Ma dant The business is. eeptetto  inon   to lange ,r' answered tiks
iaid is oftlifb ahd death i potae' rlie    ;og   nai., .eareTy..
Giles, evidently put tqitt for anexpedient.  . "Tey h r1no prette  far armipg me,"
"It'll take Ben some time to run a4mile," d'Vou errie. me through the Cnfederats
said  ilip, reflietil r, tyi ag to coax an idea pidketsa that sec;, afterward, yon brought
tern the centreof his forehead; but hitfoie- me through thewn at e- same ruannei;,,na
er, rubbed atquhad iW  little "tcle and set ie down:} eR. AEis aot $lbat e  ,ugh tp
pushed against, woulI atido it' Tliere was: han  you   1 r;t    a n } , " continued
an obstruction ; a stagnation ; a clpg qn tfrtkher- Phili, withwarmth,
novement: Ng one brought out anythiigthat:    Iknown, it certidny tiwuld. endan  r
looked feasible.                           safety ; but we, ,pusttruat, to fprt.ne. Do. not
"dWe miusttry the woods," said Giles, with a spoil fl by delay !"
troubled air. "We muet'launoih out arong the  Rachel dragged hiljp a  They were-nat
traitdr sqnatters. I wish there would come a absent above seven tinnt4  .irtjt .seemed to
fdian4 sweep all their-accursed ,abine into the anxious fdpoude seven . simesewen, They
the Mississippi. This, is a miserable nest, of canie out of the roo , apen ex ly, as they we
treason I The'l'and reeks jith ignoradee, bate, ih ; but- the more delicate face and hands e
andeWsrife. Come, boy 1' Throw on that coat, Rachel showed the d e oepAin. They had 'chag-
and cast your own upon the fire. Where are ed clothes. Rachel, frpunately. wore shar
your-revolvers ? Loo td the priming. 'We'll hair; bpt it was notshprt enou, Meg Sha-
thin off the Vigilance Cotuinittee, if, we accom- got a pair of spis~sps,,Nd  u a  .her into a
iish nothing more. I'd rather' be a nigger corner, e'lippe  e 1ark 1  w4  edly sh
than i dirty white squatter. farewell , good casting thers uponte're.
people                        e"welgod      "'Nowtfornthgte   eo cofite ''uoth Meg, going
to the pabtry.
Giles buttoned his plain, stout coat-a cross  'She re=. peered with a. tin pot, and, panrieg
between 'a- frek and  a b oise-put a pistol in some of the contents ito achels'a palms, imada
ati outside pocket and turned to go.       her -rub it over' er face and neck, The expeni
0 Stop !" remonstrated' Meg Shore. "Wait ment was 'an ,dmirabl. success,.and , Meg was
ainoment. Rachel, come here.' The girl took agreeably surprised
Rachel by the arm and diew her to her brother.  "Wiihat are 6yo  gp ng to dq with mea, ow4'"
She placed them  side by side';' she seized a Rechel' asked
lamp and held it up beors them. Rachel was,  "I am going to make another pack, of yo '
large.; Philip was -rathet 'emaIl. They were answered Me."o end sit down as F      p
nearly of a height as they stood together.. ' did."
" Look at them!" cried 'Meg.   hey are as  Rachel hesitat d
much alike as-two cotton-seeds."            .'Are On ari ?"demanded Meg, sharply.
AWhat if they are?' Why this trifling?"  " or Phitip nop  b t igjs disagrealA."
exclaimed Crosby.                            "If I was .,aot bitr,'Is isoal'tgieal,"i
"'The girl," replied Gilete seriously, " is not Meg. "But first .ywut  h  ald.  k
trifling  She means sometin ' and I yonder you've got one. 11a ' face ni 4readful.bla
it iasnot' before been thought of. Gon, Mis-  o  girl come to  pJ    wii a girl's dras
tress Wildfire:" do. Men sn't 9o ice Apd whti as girls, be
"Just see those two' ' fs," added Meg, bhir- they'  . i-nst. be cbqg O  eid, La
riedly. " One is browner=than' the -ther, and chel. I never cblk. a  4sej  The best ehslj,
that's about all difference-'But  how easy to for 'ie is the sung:ht. Icare no 'par for tan
daub'somethingon hler face ! Why, 'a ittle than.      i' er "
strong coffee would f make her yellow enough."  .Rabel got. he 'hl i i instant, ap4,ade
"     ellhow .eig?" repeated  h eli nder- the yung desert' whit  her own agebfore
ing. "Ab, yesl I 'get toe idea. -Itwill- do.' thecooee experiment. This consomedybet iit.'
yo. P g el        ,         othdream.  Row it will fiit tle time, for they wqrl d fast. d hpl went
your;Phiy., "., .                       thum"p'ng bout ing  's ~paCm 4ederateabee
Rachel ran to her bedroom.              pwhih     .,w  (eiheavy whvu poeigeites s
You a-   o put o  your sister's clothes," while Phi Bl lip  around a iner  era.,s
explained Meg, tu-hii.to Philip.            "Wow fer ae      rfieoak  i


A

'4
5'
4

i se isn't going to carry me ?" queried Ia-
thel, in alarm. "I won t be carried !"
" God forbid I" said Giles, dryly.
Philip would have smiled, even had he seen
a Confederate bayonet coming through the win-
dow.
"Giles is a womawhater," he said.
Infinitely' relieved, Rachel delivered herself
Into the hands of Meg Shore. She was flexed ;
she was swathed ; she was compressed ; she was
plated with goods like an iron-clad. .Notwith-
standing terror and nerve-trial, there was girl-
giggle in and around the pack.
"Tell me what is to happen to 'ne I" asked
Rachel.
" The One that made you only knows !" an-
swered Meg. " You will be carried off for your
brother,'and perhaps killed. You won't mind
that, you know, for Philip."
"If yow are discovered," said Giles, "You
must'personate your brother, and go *ith those
who arrestyou. Gain all the time you can, and
out with the truth when it cones to extremity.
I will prevent them from injuring you while in
the pack. Should it be passed over without
search.-".
" It won't be," interrupted Meg.
"In case it should, all will be well," added
Giles.
" If it should not?" queried Philip, looking
at his tried with anxiety.
" It will fare the worse with the peddler who
brought the pack," answered Giles, tranquilly.
The pack was completed in silence. A knot
was knotted over Rachel's head. It was a quiet
and orderly pack. It was plunip and round.
From appearances it protnised imeh; there was
mu ch in it. There were young men at Bayou
Bo om who would gladly have eatried that
pack for it. Purchasers might have been found
in numbers, for Rueel Crosby was a belle.
"Does yopr heart misgive you,'sister Ra-
chel ?" asked Philip. when he had played he had
placed the pack carefully in a corner.
" I'm in a flutter, but I'm not much afraid."
"If you are suffering, if' yo  tremble, if you
are disturbed with f'rebodirgs, give it tip. I do
not wish you to etucify your feelings for ine.
There is reason is all things."
Philip spoke very kindly and tenderly, and
with his mouth as neir Radbeas he could get it.
" Do not think of me, Philip. I' am more
resolute than ever. I-ani not ueonifortable. I
shall not be smothered, for they have left A nice
breathing-place. Have faith, andsee' hoW cour
ageously 1 will act. I will awagger"Ad tstrut
the same as you do," answered EAchef;trgitig to
be cheerful
"I kiss the top of your head," said'Philip,
pressing his lips to the knot. "-uat i repel the
imptiation ef swaggeinAg And attutting."
" No matter ; you Area good b'y'.God les
you, Phiip  ''

"Now be quiet, dear. Good-bye, Rachel."
Then to Meg:
" What an I to do now, Miss Shore ?"
He flirted the skirts of his gown, and walked
around Meg with a swinging gait.
"Do?    You would do what you are doing
now, if you were a girl; for you are enough
sight inore conceited than Rachel. But vanity
is natural to man.  You fought for meonce
otherwise I wouldn't turn my hand over for you.
I would advise you to take Rachel's work, and
sit down " replied MDiss Shore.
n 1 am down," said Philip, seating himself in
Rachel's chair, and taking up her needlework.
"Keep your black fingers out of sight as
much convenient," contindd Meg. "You han-
lie that needle as if it was a market Let the
needle alone! Boys have no wit. Let the work
lie quiet in your' lap, and keep your pawsunder
it."
" Now, good people," said Giles, "try and
appear natural.  Do not look too anxious.
Take a thoughtful and abstracted air, worthy
woman; and yu; Mi."Crosby, let your ntews-
paper fall to theloor, and lean' your elbow on
the table.  Your visitors will expect you to be
Slinking of your eon, who has deserted. Philip,
miind your character. It, was the mercy of
Heaven that you are not a girl, for you would
have put the sex in deeper disgrace. Putyoar
feed closer together, and draw them under your
skirts a-little more.  You are acting like an
awkward hussy !"
"And make a ,wider lap," observed Meg.
"Women make a wide lap, but they keep their
feet near together.  I saw a man in woman's
clothes once, who betrayed himself by- a narrow
l'ap."
"Your wit, Miss Wildfire, holds out to lAme
end. You are good for something besides string-
ing'it through the fields and leaping fences.
What are you going to do?9"
I shall not flg up the chimney ! Don't fear
for me. Philip, your feet are spread again."
While Giles was giving farther instructions,
people were hard approaching. Be caught a
cushion from a chair,threw it upon the floor
neau the pack, and lay down. the cushion was
hidspillow.
There *aI a niche between the chimney and
the Wall. Meg drew a Chair into it, to the left
of Philip, and seating herself, leaned her heady
against the bricks, her' hands lying negligently
in her lap.
B the time this tableau was formed, the door
was 1burst open, and men i Confederate uniform
rushed uir.
CIAT     V.
JOHN Ba~pT.
John Brani lived at the Paw-Paw Ford. Paw.
paw Ford was fve miles from Bayo4 Bottom,
at a duridusi bend of the river 'of the Forked

F:1 t
11t

THE ROUND PACK.

19


r~

TIE RtJ.

Ile.. Johnl rantt believed in horses. lIe nQt
att ='Vbleve tin horses, but he bet on horses.
11c wt.s a horse man ; and a disappointed mai,
to. IIorses first, aftei which, negroes.  Ne-
groe s are' boys", or at least were, till the first
of Janttary, sixty-three ; when they were spoken
of by the Executive Majesty of the United
ttats, as persons held to servitude. Whether
twy will now grow to men, remains to be
seen  Every'one of John Brant's' boys" did a
man's work, with small persuasion and a good
deal of driving. Brant's plantation was large,
if not lucrative. It paid before the war, when
Cotton was a private gentleman ; but when
Cotton became king, like maty other kings, it
lee tote very unprofitable. By a grand decree
front the Rebel Prince, some of John Brant's
bates became' brands for the burning; a pro-
ceeding which took place during' a short ab.
sence to a neighboring town. This aet of wan-
ton destruction greatly exasperated him; and
the remaining stored of the royal fibres, by far
the greater portion of the year's crop, which
had been saved from the flames by the inge-
nuity of Black Jack, his favorite body-servant,
were afterward carefu-lly watched.
John Brant, though of Confederate proclivi-
ties generally, swore a round oath that not an-
other incendiary 'torch should light his planta-
tion with. baleful fires. From forty able-bodied
slaves he detailed a guard of ten to keep watch
and *ard over his secret deposit of the precious
substance, with orders to shoot down, without
ceremony, the destroying angels of Jeff Davis
the instant they should appear. Many were- the
threats breathed forth by the squatters, whohad
nothing to lose by fagot or confiscation. They
wagged their worthless heads at John Brant.
They muttered murderous menaces, which many
mentiwould have feared ; but Brant was as proud
and spirited as his own English thoroughbreds.
He showed the whites of a wicked pair of eyes
to caviler and corn-cracker. He erected his
ears, and snorted defiance at united squatter-
dom.' He cuffed his house-servants, lashed his'
field-hands, and berated Mrs. Brant, as faith-
fully as if nothing'-had happened.
Brant was a man of impulse. le was apt to
chafe in harness, and wanted nobody to play
with his mane. He was ambitious, or at least
had been. At the beginning of the war he had
aspired to high command ;but the great head
of the Confederacy had quenched his aspirations
by, the -simple monosyllable, No. After that'
denial he became very reckless, and very uneven
iii his loyalty to the immortal seven-starred
flag. Sometimes he swore by it, and sometimes
he swore at it. It often happened that in the
morning he was ready to bet s1 "boy" on the as-
cendency of -the Southern Cross, and at night
he was equally willing to wager the same on the
Northern Star.
To do him justice, this was after the smoke of

;D PACK.
burziing cotton began to hang, like a funeral
pall, over the waters of the Mississippi. John
Brant was a human avalanche, but not without
those chivalrous qualities that are supposed to
exist rather lavishly in Dixie.. Flashes of geoi-
erosity gleamed through his hot and iiopetuouis
character. He possessedone rare virtue; he
would yield when fairly beaten, although too
frequently with an unneeded expletive.
Brant was what ladies call, a stylish man.
All the belles of the Forked Deer arched their
pretty necks, and declared him handsome.
His easy, reckless manners rendered him a
special favorite of ladies. He was a daring
rider. He did not seem sensible that he had. a
neck to. break, or limbs to endanger.. Hounds,
hunting, and horses were his chief delights.
Mrs. Brant was a beauty. She was elegant
in form and sweet in temper. In her deport-
ment she mingled dignity with soft melancholy.
John.Brant was the whirlwind,. and she was the
zephyr. She was highly educated, and presided
over the household with grace and intelligence.
She had a marvelous gift of song, and soothed
the terrible -moods of her husband, even as
David soothed the devil out of King Saul.
Her skill saved more than one trembling back.
Something was the matter with Mrs. Brant,
however. If she knew what it was, she kept the
secret to herself. It was observed by the slates
that she was not a happy woman. Black Jack
thought he knew what ailed her, . but with the
gravest importance he assured his fellow-bond-
men that he shouldn't be-in a hurry to tell what
lie knew.' Jack was a privileged person, and he
sometimes took on airs. He was oracular and
humorous, and the authority of the kitchen and
the table.
"Jack," said Mr. Brant, one evening, " how
are the horses ?"
. They're in the bestest order, Mars'r Brant."
" How is Dogberry ?"
"He mighty fine !" said Jack, with satisfac-
tion. "He's pawin' and axin' for a start.- You
must give him a dash soon, Mars'r."
"And Peppercorn."
"Peppercorn am down in the mouf, she am.
That yer last heat youguy her took the fire out
of her right smart. You does ride like prison,
Mars'r John ! Hev to'shet down on ye soon, if
ye don't hol' up, and go:sort o' keerful 'mong
the logs and brushes. Now thar's Brown Bess
hey got a bad knothole in her Afoot jest by yer
foolin'."
"Spitfire is all right, isn't he ?" queried
Braat, receiving Jack's strictures with the'ut-
most good-nature.
" No thanks to you fort, Mars' John! Dat
yer hoss am feelin' good all over,!I He'll kill a
coinmonu nig er, and make noflin'.of it. But he
knows. dise hle ! Talksgight out to me when I
goes into his stall. Better keep out the way 0'
that yer kedrupid, Mars'r. Let his heels fly at

ye, fust thing ye know. 'Twon't do:to tamper poor white trash, most of'em be. You wouldn't
with hoss-flesh."                           put your legs under the table with cii, Mars'r
"I want him to-morrow, Jack."             John, and you know it ! They hasn't got no
"Stop dar, Mai's'r -stop dar!" exclaimed cotton ; not a pod. They hasn't no housen nor
Jack, putting out a sooty hand protestingly. nigs; but they makes more noise nor all the
"I's got to ride that yer hoss myself, fust. You rest of 'em put together.  You's got sproperty
ken hev Clipper, but don' you lay a finger. on town full of 'em, but they am g9od for noffin.
Spitfire !"                                 They, won't work on the plantation :. they won't
" Do you hear what Jack says, Celia ?" laughed work to home ; won't work nowhar.' 'rihey lol-
Brant, turning to his wife. ,' He is the autocrat lops about in the warm sun, too lazy to take
of the. stable. Had.he been born North, he keer 'of their chil'en, which isn't so well off as
might have been, perchance, an autocrat of a the young darkeys. You'll find''em at races
breakfast-table. I dare say he would have been and cock-fights, with big knives in the legs ,o'
as funny in that  pacity, as the merry.: little their boots, swainn, and takin' on'airs awful.?'
poet of Boston Bay."                          "There's truth in that, Celia," said Brant, in
Black Jack stood twisting his old cap nearthe an undertone.
door. He now looked at Mrs. Brant with a      "When you goes 'Yong sieb company as that
changed expression.. There was respectful at- yer. Mars'r Jphn Brant, I shell guy ye a month's
tention and subdued curiosity in his eyes.  notice, so's you kin be lookin' roun' for' a new
" Jack is so faithful that you can well afford boy."
to let him have his own way," she answered,   ";Damned if I should blame y3'u much,
sighing.                                    Jack !" muttered Brant, abstractedly.
" As, good 'ap they'll average," said John     "One our boys is, in the room, John," ok-
Brant, carelessly. "They're a shiftless race, served Mrs. Brant, warningly.
take 'em all in all. The best of 'em would take  "Never mind, my dear ! He'll swear 'worse
to their heels, if they had a chance. You'd run, than I do before he's half as old., He'll learn it
wouldn't you, Jack ?". -                   of the, niggers, you know,"
"I dunno, Mars'r," replied, Jack, with a re-  A troubled expression went over the woman's
feetive air, and rubbing his rimless old hat face, There was a galled -1ace, somewhere,
against his arm. "Thar's Missis, and thar'sthe that Brant often touched without intention.
bosses, you know !"                           "One thing' I's forgot to tell ye," added
"Well, where the devil am I ?" demanded Jack, presently.  "You knows the. Crosbys,
Brant, taking a cigar from a little vase on the Mars'r ?"
table.                          '. Brant nodded.
"You're well enough, Mars'r John, but you   Mrs. Brant flushed a little.
ain't Nissis nor the bosses," answered Jack.  " The Rebs card off ole Crosby,.and his scn
"When I runs, Mars'r, I shall take one of the Phil, for to fight the battles with the Feds..
bestest bosses, dead sure."                 Well, the ole one conie back' hacked up 'right
' ''If you do, Jack, I swear I'll shoot ye !"vo- smart, and sick bad. Little while arter that,
ciferated Brant, half amused, half angry.   they earn from Phil,' and lie were mighty 'out
Mrs. Brant smiled.             .          o' consate with the Rebs, and wantin' to.git
" Loramity, Mars'r ! 'You couldn't git 'long away. Jes' now I got word that he had 91rar
'thout me, noways. The Rels.would burn yer gone run away."
cotton, 'fore ye could say the Lor's Prar !" re-  " Deserted !" exclaimed Mrs. Brant.
torted Jack, with great confidence.  -        1"What's that?" asked Brant, whose mind
"Don't call 'em Rebs, you rascal !" admon- had been pre-occupied.
ished Brant, frowning."Philip Brant has deserted, Jack says," said
"What the debble shall I call 'em ?" asked his wife.
Jack, not ery respectfully.  -'               "The lad as used to hunt with you, Miars'r,"
",Confederates, boy !"                    put in Jack.
"Don't b'lieve in callin' 'em that yer. They. " Deserted, has he ?  I am sorry. The very
ain't nobody, Mars'r John ; and if I's you, I'd devil will be to pay ! Phil was a good hunter,
turn my back on 'em quicker !"           I!and I shouldn't like to have, the boy shot," an-
"That's treason, Jack."                  swered Brant, coming out-of his'Abstraction.
" Who burnt the cotton, Mars'r?"            " Nor I, John; but not on account of his
"Damn the cotton-burners !" muttered Brant, hunting qualities so much as for his mother's
flushing to the brows.                      sake," said Mrs. Brant, with evident anxiety.
" Jack has got you now,' John," said Mrs.  ." Why the deuce didn't he stay with his regi-
Brant, smiling.,                            meant? '
"Jack'll get something thrown at him, if he  "Loramity, Mars'r !. They 'seriptioned hiys
don't mind, responded the planter.         into that yer business. Wouldn't toted the gun,
"I wouldn't stick to 'em, Mars'r. The ~ain't 'f I's he,"
"fno 'count, them yer Federalists ain't. They're  Jack looked very seriously at 'liisbrogans.

'I

i'{i
t
:4 ;, ;
;.
j
,
f  ,
( ifi;1
} ,  '
';1 i''
f     1,
j {
, ' t}    ,
I f i,
'1
i ' ~
,r   ,
. {7  j
i
,      '  }
',  '. i

THE ROUND PACK.

21


2

I:

THE ROUND PACW

"Jack," said John Brant, turning suddenly they knows 'bout it; and they swnre that the
upon the black, " who told you this?"      man with the pack war atthe bottom of it. If
"Who tole me, Mars'r ?" he repeated, with a they git liol' of that chap, Mars'r, they'll use him
very ingdiring countenance.  a             mighty bad !"
"Damn it, Jaek, none of your nocentlooks!  "Peddler," mused Brant.  "I saw such a
I won't' be gammoned. Who told you about fello* on the road the other day. He was a
Phil Crosby ?"                             sturdy rogue, with a villainous cast of the eye.,
"Nobody, Mars'r John."                   He 'had a good-sized bundle on his back, trudg-
" I swear,'Celia, I won't stand that !" protest- ing along moodily, I hailed him with, *'Good
ed Brant, aigrity. "That nigger has never morning, peddler,' and he answered gruffly. I
been thrashed since I have 'had 'him. It's high thought, after passing him, that I should have
time to give 'bii seime 4iselpline."       questioned him, and also examined his pack ;
You'll never strike  e, Mis'r Brapt I  ' said for in these times, a peddler migi, do a vAst
Jack, gravely                              deal of mischief."
"Why won't I strike you ?" cried John' "You has seen him afore ?" said Jack,
Brant.                                       "Never !" answered Brant, with emphasis.
"'Cause  u won't ?" said Jack, looking stead-  "Do you'mernber Blaek Sywamp, Mers'r ?"
ily at Mrs.    .                             " I ought to. There is where I got nired."
" They are getting tputinous," said Brant, his "And you'd been down thar now, if a man in
eyes flashing. "We shan't be able to manage coon-skin cap hadn't pulled ye out."
these nigers, by-and-by. This war will play  "True enough, Jack  The more I floundered,
the Oldarry with slavery, Celia. Jae ought the deeper I sank. I was up to my arm-pits in
to lie snubbed !"  sJsucculent mud, and the treacherous quag was
"Why 'don't you snub him, John?" asked drawin' me in, when s browns and bearded
Mrs. Brant, with quiet humor.              stranger came to my rescue. I felt as a rabbit
"Because you'll screen him! You know I must feel when being swallowed by a serpent."
can't touch a 'nigger without making a row.  "His appearance irust have been welcome,
You know you blamed ine'for flogingsBipthe John," remarked Mrs. Brant.
other day, for trading on the deg's tai. One  "I never was so glad to see a human being,
of my best ups died afterward, and I'l warrant as I was to see that grim hunter iu a coon-skln
he poisoned it. If I should thrash'Jack, I sup- ea'p. He threw down some boughs and dead
pose some of te horses would go lame, or some ligihs, bridged the way to within reaching lis-
confounded thing would happen to the colts."  tanie, then -thrusting to me the breach of his
"Not that, Mars'r John ! This child don't long rifle, drew me out ol'the horrible vortex.
do sich tricks as theca yer. Thar's better' ways I sank down exhausted, and after gasping i. fec
nor thsm. Thar's no' sense in worrittin' dumb 'moments for breath, turned my head to' thank
kedrupeds."                                my preserver; but he had gone. His   ast,
" Get out of spy sight!" retorted his master, however, half-filled with spirits, was lying be-
in a surly tone.                           side..me. He bad left it for me. I wanted to
Jack was evidently unwilling to go. lie had reward that man ; nor have I seep him from
something more to say.                     that day to this ; and that was six months ago."
" Ain't you going to help young Mars'r Phil ?"  " That yer man, Mars's Brant, was the ped-
he asked.                                  dler ' said the black. with asgleam of triumph.
"How can I help him ?"              '     "I don't believe it !" retorted Brant. " That
" Dunno ; but; if ought to be helped, dead is purely an invention of your nigger brain.
sure!1"                                    Mind yourself, boy."
Brant began to ibeditate, and Jack went out.  "Hope to die, mars'r, if 'tain't the Lor's
'He returned in about fifteen minutes.     truth 1. Wouldn't lie to .ye for all this yer
"Have you heard anything more ?"~asked world. -Loramity! I b'longs to the sawnp-meet-
Brant.                                    in.
" Yes ; the gray uniforms are out after Phil."  "lie is telling the truth, John," said Mrs.
They hey gone down the river, threatenin' right Brant. " I know when Jack is lying."
'ba?                                         " It don't ceetn possibh,! I was in hopes my
" How did- Philip get away ?" inquired the rescuer would turn out to be somebody, But
planter, whose solicitude for Philip Orosby in- a trumpery peddler ! 1 can't .go that.. 4nd
.reased.                                   there's one thing that staggers me ; I'm at a loss
"'He war seen las' with a peddler, who was sell- to know here:Jack gets his inforrOatipn ?"
in'-nicnt-acks to the Federalists. Two hours  "' We slaver know  a good inany ftlings,
'after 'te peddler bad gone,'Phil war missed, and inars'r,"said Jack, with seriousness.'
ooi14n't be found n wha r. They see him .buj- "I am aware of it ; amnd sometines, ittrou e
'a' ebutraptiogs of  that yer peher, a' t4e  me. There is too 'much A'eeinasopry among
seen them go lnto a' tent together ebut the  you blacks. Some of you will haveto le put
didn't see him come out. Now, that'"'  all, to tih olure, 'm afraid, beforee ro; shall he

THE ROUND PACK.

23

'

I

safe. Will you tell me, Jack, how you learned f         CHAPTER     VI.
all this about. the indentity of the hunter and IN WHICH JOHN BRANT AND BLACK JACK  IDE
peddler ?"  -                                          woWARD THE PACK.
" No, Mars'r John! 'I'd do anything in the  John Brant took several turns between the
whole wort' for ye, but I won't breakirny oath." house and the stable. He stopped many times,
"OathI" exclaimed Brnt, striking:the table. and stood as motionless as a tree, talking to
a Did you hear that, Celia' These negroes will himself and scanning the heavens. Black.Japk
be our masters, soon."               .     watebed his master, as a dog watches a rabbit-
"Did I say oath3" asked, Jack, making .a burrow. He knew'the habits o' the man, and
monstrous effort, apparently, to quicken his felt assured that he sbuld be wanted'presently.
memory. "No. no.1"I didn't say oath.  ee'act Brant was subject to meditative attacks, but it
is, a nigger don't know. the nater' of a, oath." was seldom that he had such a severe one. By
"The devil may trust them I" retorted Bract, and by, his manner changed ; he straightened
laghing at.Jack's pretended simjlioity. "But up, buttoned his coat to the chin, and called
to get anything out of a darkey, when he has, sharply to Jack :
made up his mind 'to be innocent or stupid, is  "Br'  out Spitfire and Clipper !  Have
time wasted. Upon your honor, Jack, are you ,them saddled andb ridled instantly. Step live-
absolutely certain that the peddler and the hu- ly I"
ter are the same person ?"                 -'"Have 'em groomed any, Mars'r?" .asked
"I's been with ye a good many years, wars'r, Jack, well knowing what the answer would be.
and I never lied to ye when I war in right down..  " Never mind the grooming. Haste is what
airnest. It's true as the book o' Generations !" I want."
The impressiveness of Jack'a manner left no  With these words he went into the house, and
doubt of his sincerity.   -s.              .   this wife :
"I am satisfied, Jack." Then to his wife:  "Celia, I don't feel right about Philip Crca-
- I must think of this, Celia. I wouldn't have by. I am going to ride down to his father's,
that man injured ifit were-in my power to -help and see what's going on there. I'm afraid he
him, for one of my best horses.  Peddler or may be hidden in the house, or somewhere
not, I'll swear that he is no ordinary person. He about the premises ; in which case he will sure,
who pulled me out of the mud, ou ht to be ly be found. And if they find him, Celfa,
pulled out of difficulty, if possible. It's a-debt they'll show him no favor. Confound this
of honor, you see. Then there's that bothering war! It makes ravenous beasts of people."
Philip Crosby !" continued Brant. "lie stood  "War does not make beasts of people, John."
by me in a fracas which I had with some poor answered Mrs. Brant. "It only unmasked the
white trash, led on by the seamp, Ben Watrous, evil passions of bad men.  Ferocity and cruel.
growing out of a betting dispute. Four of them ty lie latent in the human animal; and they
came at me at once, and I should have been cut break out like the waters of a dy ke, when the
to- pieces, if Phil hadn't stepped in manfully natural barriers of society are broken away, and
and helped me. He handled a hickory stick like the. restraints of civilization removed.- Mur-
a young athlete, and we soon cleared them out. derers eat at our table, John ; but we do not.
I received an ugly cut, you remember, Celia ?" know it till some great crime has startled the-
"I remember it well," answered Mrs. Brant, community. Could we see the moral condition.
turning pale, "and it grieves me, John, that you of some men, we should see them with halters.,
will associate with such men. Jack is far better around their necks."
company for a gentleman."                    " You should have been the wife of Socrates,
s ".Thak you,.missi" said Jack, bowing and Celia, and not of a rattle-headed slaveholder.
scraping.sawas                             You are capable of holding a parley with the
"1 There is always somethinigto make me un. host of Swedenborg. Good-night !" said John
caomfortable,' quoth Brant, lighting another t;rant.
eigar.                                       "I am glad/you are going to'look after Pbil-
".You ought to do something," said Mrs. ip; but don't run into danger, John. If you
Brant.                                     chance to;see that mysterious peddler, don't for-
"I can't resist military .law I" he answered, get Black Swamp," answered Mrs. Brant.
aurtly.                                     "Trust me for that I" said 'Brant, as he went
- Jack nodded approvingly at his mistress. out.
He winked and blinked for her to go en in that .He found the horses saddled and bridled, ands
way.                                       two grooms were holding them. The creatures
John Brant took his hat and went out, -with a 'were full of strength and mettle. They reared,
very thoughtful countenance.               they snorted, they struck the ground with their
fore-feet.  Spi.t re was .  tieylarlj restive.
 .H, laid be  hi slurs, distended bit nostrils,
ag4 settled bhad  ix.toward his haunches; as
labrap ppa$e4 4i          4 to-pount.

i
y{{ f'
'   i
''*{ {'Y
f.
r  1j
i
I
l   l
,   '
;i
v."^,
_#  f
' :
$
'i'
X17 S1
,,: ,
'' ! -
,- ,t
E
'j  ;
,  ,
;  .f
+ ",' i +  f
., ..d

I

I
I
)
r
t
r
f


THE ROUND PACK.

"Loramity, Mars'r ! Don't you go for to git
onto that yer. He'll stan' on his hinders as
straight as a man ; then down 'll go that end-
and up '11 go  other !" cried Jack, anxiously.
"Lem meride him fst,-Mars'r John."
"Suppose he should break your neck, Ja6k ?"
"'Twouldn't kill noffin but a "nigger,' any-'
ways. Missiaswould ruther'her my neck broke'
nor your'n. Yes, two to one,'Mara'r!"
"I thank you, Jack," answered, the planter,
with careless kindness 6f tone. " You're a
good fellow, but you're dreadful' black'!  I
don't see what i akes you niggers so black''-
"I s'pect we had the choice o' colors," said
Jack.   ,I
" Hold the stirrup,. boy !" said 'Brant, who
had gently approached Spitfire's head, and'ras'
parking hia neck very softly..
"Always.touichh  n horsegehtly, Jack, 'and
speak'to him kindly. The horse is a 'creature-
of great intelligence.' Look at those'eyes, boy!,
Do you suppose,. Ggd .gave the proud fellqw
those eyes for nothing'? "Not he ! They a
full of light, .Ile,reads men'q minds with thi .'
They are the windows tlirough 'ehich 'he givesJ
and receives intelligence. 'He knows the differ-
ence between, master apa man, Jack. He knows
he can scare the man when he cannottthe mas-"
ter. The horse, too, is an aristocratic being,,
and.takes more' kindly $o the white-master khan
to the 'olored groom. Behold, Jack I. For-
wnrd 4ome his ears,and down comes his nose to
mine. '"He is saying, 'How 'do 3bu do, f-rierid
John? - Where 'have you' been these sev-'ral
days.?, I should think you'd come 'round and
see a fellow oftener. These niggers, John, are
of no account. 'I have sdared'them well,!' You
are going to mount now, I suppose. Well, on
with you, and away we'll go !'
Spitfire whinnied. He breathed into John's
nose, and John breathed into his. Then they
touched noses, and laid their heads .together
Spitfire was a' sportive'and amiablee friend, and
John Brant slipped on to his back gently, with-'
out breaking his back-bone by hanging ten
minutes in one stirrup, howling " Whoa !" In-
stead of 'careering 'like an 'angry 'horse, which'
had been yelled at and fretted, he rocked'gently
tip apl, dovn, so that it was a pleasure to  see
him, l-e was a noble cradld 'for John Brant,
but a cradle with wings, ready to fly away at' a
moment's'notice. He was 'proud of 'his rider,
and proud of himself. John' Brant held him
easily in hand while Jack was niounrting'Clip-
per. His groom approached him,to show his
courage, and approve his own'wonderful ascend-
ancy over the animal. Baek went Spitfire's
ears, and up went his fore-foot to'strike his pre-
sumptuous menial. Fled'the groom,, and laugh--
ed John Brint. With' a' pressure upon the'
bridle no harder than lie had'presed the band'
of fair lady,and'wifth'the worde,' softly 'breaths=
ed "Go, 'gpitfiie!""'4 l"e ot of the 'yard

-and down the river-road, with Clipper snorting
at his-heels.
"I say Mars'r John!"
" Well, Jack ?"
."Isayyou tn'anages that boss mighty fine.
Wouldn'tbelieved it?'tess I'd seen it. Do you
know. why -I don't run away to Linkum's Land,
Mars'r ?"    ..                   "
"Afraid of: being, caught and brought.baek,
I apose."                               . . .
'Not' that," said Black Jack, with warmth.
" It's 'cause you've got so many' good things in
ye."
"Awful stormy sometimes, Jack," laughed
Brant.'
"That's a'fac'. But you does come it over
bosses the same ay'you does over women. Lor'.
abiity! you'ree as fine as silk, Mars'r John !it
3y this time, Jack' was beside his, master,
laughing a'quiet negro laugh, and theitwo hoi-sts
were eating the ground, neck and neck. TIhe.
flattery of his sable" -companion had a good
effect on Brant. It made him ashamed of many
acts. of cruelty and ill-temper. -He was sorry
that lie liad n'ot ateall times!-the power 'of self-
gov'rninent. He said to himself:
t'Heeis a,'slave who fulfills his ;part in life
roro faithfully than I do mine. I wonder if I'm
in any way responsible- for the lives and{ con-.
duSt of' the- black chattels that Fortune hs'
thrown' into my hands ?".
He rode on, thinking of this, and of Philip'
and the peddler.
CHAPTER 'VII.
ANN SHORE AND, GRIMKEY.
On went master and on went man. The. riv-
er-road '*as: very-.silent. 'The Forked Deer
flowed on over its muddy bed as.-tranquilly as
in times of peace.l The .dusky curtain of Night
shut more closely over the equestrians. Brant
grew more uneasy as he drew near Bayou Bot-
tom.. Spitfire, beginning to warm  with exer-
cise, nobwintimated to Brant -that he wished to.
put forth his speed. Nature said' to Spitfire:
".Try "your heels.  And'Spittire repeated it to
his friend John ; but the latter restrained him.
He wished to'approach'Crosby's cautiously.
He met a woman.on "the road. It was Ann
Shore, Meg's reputed mother. It was. not an
hour for -women- to=be'sabroad; but Ann Shore
was an exception to most of her sex in those
parts.' Ie was net :much surprised at, seeing
her, for she was known to be nocturnal in. her
habits.. She had a' basket'on .ier; arm and a
cane in her hand. A little Skye' terrier 'tagged
at her heels. She stopped in the road, right
under-the- nose-of 'Spitfire, iwho, 'datehiug the
scent of her old hood, uokered 'his ,upper lip,'
and said " Faugh !" as plainly as ever he spoke
in his life. He then added :
"Get out of the way, old lady, or I'll step on
you, dog and all1"

O
o
-$1
4
d'

.' # ,;} I
. , ,
,
K -
N-
(      i
f { t
. '

Id


1E ROUND PACK.
,nn Shore did not budge, She planted her   "I know-
,ene before her, resting both of her -wrinkled Shore., wags
hands upon the top of it, .her basket banging in any Mrs. B
the bend of her right arm.                 me."
"Stau' from under thar I" said Jack.       Ann Shor
"Stop your black   pngue 1" answered Ann laugh. Not
Shore, tartly. " Let your betters speak."  was no laugi
" Why are you wandering at this time of face to cent
night, good woman ?" asked Brent, who was- in made, would
a milder mood than usual.                  All that ki
The terrier began to bark and make little Mrs. Ann SI
saatches at Spitfire's hoofs ; but the horse was it out. The
too mighty in bis own mind to notice him. The ing happens
helpless atom might have lain down between roots of all1
his feet with perfect impunity, .            John Bra
" Better take in your rat, if you don't want swayed hea
it crushede" said Jack.                  reins falling
"Evil will happen to t  man or beast that around' to
kill Grimkey," retorted t e woman, spitefully. great eyes b
Grimkey was the terrier'sbame.             Brant did
Jok backed Clipper a few paces, for he was a sickness a
thoroughly afraid of Ann Shore. I~e believed him weak.
that she could fly to the moon, if she wanted  "I can a
to.                                        witch as I
"Sluggards sleep," she said, answering.Brant. yours. Yoi
*Might is the most potent part of the day. a lamb from
Night is full of virtue. Fools pass their nights ed for it. I
in bed, as senseless ,as logs of wood ; but those holy, grief
who know the signs of the moon, go out to tell in the hi
gather medicinal herbs."   --.               She leatie
" I have heard that you are a dootress," ob- uplifted her
served Brant, quite awed by the old woman's like the -p
look..                                     If consciene
"-I am. People send for me when the book- and stern ol
dooters have failed. They don't object to let- him.
ting the old witch in at the back door, when  " You ar
death is knocking at the front. Tbat's the way said, withou
the world goes.  In the hour of necessity, ness. I can
scornful lips become prayerful "           you can tel]
" There's truth in that, woman," said Brant.  peddler, spe
"It's wonderful that I can tell the truth V"  "I can tel
sbe sneered.. "A witch should tell nothing but are down the
lies. Where are you going, you, John Brant, and it's too
with your high horse, and your man at your traded into
beck?"                                     goes Philip t
"Down to your relatives," answered the for desertion
plaster.                                    "Woman,
"My relatives! They hold their noses higher no pity for
ihan mine. They're ne'er akin to me. I rest generous boa
my hones in their kitchen, now and then, but I  " He was
never take bread and salt under their roof- with the Ya
tree."                                     kith and kin
Grimkey made another onslaught at Spitfire's ereauseI's
hoos and Ann Shore struck the earth with her  She spoke,
trne.            .                     .     " So you a
"I hear that theOrosbys are in trouble, Mrs.  Yes," sa
Shore, I thought I would ride down and see with her ear
about Philip," replied Brant.              pire!. The(
" Little good will the journey do ye. You the fate of'sa
had better be tucked up with the womaazehia, helping hand
than to be here on your high horse."       point to. T
"Speak of Mra. Brant respectfully," said Their house
Brant, frowning.                           fall I"

27
of no such person," answered Ann
aging her heady "If you know of
rant, you've got- the advantage of
e did not laugh as hags are said to
body ever saw her laugh. There
h in her. She was solemn from sur-
tre. The best joke that ever was
d not draw a smile to her dry lips.
nd of sunlight had gone out with
,hore. Probably somebody had put
ere is a cause for everything. Noth-
without a euse. Causes lie at the
things.
ant was partly stunned. His body
vily in his English saddle, and the
loosely on the mane, Spitfire looked
see what was the matter, and his
lazed with impatience.
not feel like'speaking. There was
urdling -at his stomach that made
tand here before you, John Brant,
am, with a' better conscience than
u're a wicked man d You have taken
the' fold, and you have not account.
You have made sighing and melan-
and sadness. What story will you.
our of judgment ?"
d more firmly upon her cane, and
face. She looked, to John Brant,
ersonified shadow of his misdeeds.
e could take the form of a wrinkled
d woman, his conscience was before
e hard on me, Mother Shore," he
t anger. "I wonder at your bold-
waste no more time with you. If
l me anything about Philip or the
I you this!1" she exclaimed. "They
ere with my high-nosed kinsfolks
late to save them. They are be-
the hands of our soldiers. Back
to the Tenth ,Tennessee to be shot
" cried Brant, sterny,  have you
the mother? Philip is a brave,
before the .war, but now he sides
unkee invaders.. Accursed be the
that proves recreant to the South-
with vehemence.
re for the Confederaey ?"
id Awn Shore, shaking her oldhood
neatness. "I am for the new Em-
Crosbys are traitors ;let 'them take
uch. , I have no tears for them ; no
d; no word of cheer.; no refuge to
(hey have 'sowed, let them reap.
is builded on 'the sand ; it  must

S 1
!
f
1

0

;;
;i
'Y                  7'    I
t


$8                               THE ROUND PACK.
Grimkey ran around his raven-tongued mis-  ~"The devil take your malice !" answered
trees like a frantic dog, pouring a broadside of Brant angrily. "Out of the way !"
barks at Spitfire -at each cirenit.  Hewas full  "Not yet ' croaked Ann Shore. "There's
of the bitterness of Ann Shore. Superstitious a peddler-man that you'd give something;to
people said that Gridkey was her familr spirit. know, who'Will perish this night.  He toted a
A familiar, in theishape of a dog, was a novelty ; round pack" down' to  rosby's, and he's toted
but cats, in that capacity, .bad been played out his last load. "You'd give your high' horseto
to such an extent as to bring reproach upon 'the know him"
whole feline race'. Gossipsiprofessing to be wise  . Het faded-eyes looked like pale-moonlight, as
in witch lore said,;that the dog subterfuge was she triumphantly uplifted' them.   "
"right smart". .Even Jack had:aprofound awe  ."Your art has' failed ye, for once," Brant re-
o( Grimkey.  Grimkey!   The name itself-had torted ; "1fot I know what' you 'mean. That
a smattering, of diabolism. It -was' conceded peddler, old "wuoman,-'Won't die,-if I can help
that Grimkey was an infernal name. -Agreat it."      '
many plots had -been laid for the downfall of '"Satan must have 'told 'you something, but
Grimrly. Charitable neighbors had poisoned 'not: all;"'she sanswesred somewhat 'diseomfited.
choice bits of meat-for him. Boys had thrown "There's more than ye dream of in that story.
stones at lih'n,-and pursued him with porringers But save him, if you 'will. I' care 'not. - The
of hot water.  Bladders full of. dombustibles titne thas - been" When I 'would have crept  on
had been prepared to tie: to his tail ; but his my hands and knees to have- shielded him -from
tail was -not' easily come at. One kind woman, danger'; but he's-a 'false knave-, now. 'He's a
whose chill had been cured by Ann Shore, had 'traitor,' and a Federalspy."I_ ip blood be'on hie
twisted a cotton, rope td Lang Grimkey with,,but own 'head I"        - -    -   - -'
Grimkey's neck was! never ;convenient : when  Ann Shore trembled from head to foot.
wanted   A bird-lhunter had fired at him with  "This i's very singular," mused Brant, loud.
mustard shot; and-although he averred that he  "lt-is' past," added' Ann Shore, in a stronger
had put in a handful, :he ,was. ready to' make voice. '-I'll have no loophole for an informer
oath that notone touched 'him. All these per- to creep' out 'of. No,'no!'" Not I !' Be quiet,
sections Ann Shore took as leveled at;herself. Grimkey; be quiet:' You distract me with your
Nor was Grirnkey the only one that suffered. noise. I say I will not relent!' The"love of
Margaret. as.we.have already said, came in for country is strongest of all. I'll seal the doom
.a share of popular bigotry. :'Meg .was .thought of the spy, though 'it wrench away what little
a fitting offspring of a' witch-mother. -The path life is left in me. . Ay, ay! it is a brave
which this girl had. traveled was, a thorny one ; thought. It is' an arrow that will fly straight to
and it was wonderful that she had preserved so the target."
much innate womanhood. A few individuals,    Her 'mind for a moment-seemed wandering.
more malignant,}than others, ,went so far as -to  " Listen, John Brant'!  The man with the
affirm that Meg ;herseff was;the. temple of a round pack':once loved -a woman that you
.fmiliar spirit ;, but the young men, however know !"           ''-'
prejudiced, admitted that an imp might have  She turned out of the path, saying :
had a worse-looking habitation.'     ;'      "Cotme,-Grimkey,-come !" and walked away
"1 am a Tennesseean and a slaveholder," said very fast, leaving'John Brant sitting amazed 'On
]rant, " but I.have feelings of humanity. I his "high horse'.
heartily hope Philip Crosby wilkescape. Rave         =       ---
the Confedera e soldiers found him ?"    -HAPTER VIII.
"Not yet, but they soon will.. He's in the  -         C
house, andI k.ow it."  .      .    '  .STANDING ON HIS- TOES.                    ,
"I hope you did not have theheartlessness-to - The planter was greatly' disturbed by Ann
put his enemies on his track ?"  '         Shore. The very vagueness of her words acted
"hope what you list, and ,the truth;will not upon his imagination more strongly than'direct
be changed. The house is, under watch, and and -specific ,,charges. -He': queried whether' to
has lIeen for days together. Benedict Watrous advance or return."
has been there, and the Confederate soldiers are  Spitfire reared,. and' rocked, and' sawed on the
at the door, or soon swill be. A nice shooting- bit. +-The horse knew his-own' mind better:than
match there'll be, anon,,in the Tenth Tennessee !" the man knew his. .' "
"And, your own blood,. too, you harridan !" . "Mars'r John;" said~' Jack; gravely ; "that
he muttered.     . i.            '         yer is a direfful wioked-ole' woman !' Don't go
" Look to your own ;blood, ands not to mine i" for to noticin' what 'she savs.' 'I'm 'mighty-.
.she retorted. "You.will find it.flowing in veins skeered of her when she's right afore me;' but
where-it oughtn't to be., Ay, upeknowledged: 'donitkeernoffla for hertafter-ehe's turned het'
blood, .too  Blogd ,-of no account in the 'law; back."  " "'};''"','  ' '  ' '',
E    tbat ;in' yourpipe at ieke it oh yor', :  he'saidsmipethihg about Delia, didn't she,
high horse I"                         1    '-!:  Jack ?" asked Brant, desirous of k'saiag what

THE ROUND PACK.

impression her concluding words had made on
the understanding of his man.
"She didn't spole her name, but I.s'spect
she meant to hit ye somewhar thereabouts," an-
swered Jack, soothingly. "Now, Mars'r, you
jes' let that ar kind o' thing drop jes' where
'tis ; for there ain't no. woman in this lower
worl' like missis."
Brant let the horse go on.
" You speak in that way, Jack, because Celia
won't allow any of you boys to be hurt,"he
said, comforted, in spite of himself, by the
wnolesotme testimony of his poor dependent.
"1 Ihut's something ," quotes-Jack ; ",but thar's
more nor that. She am a messenger o' light on,
the plantation. No spot nor blemish dar, Mars'r
John. Loramity ! I'd sooner look for the spots
in the sun when thar's none laid down in the
almanic. That yer Ann Shore am chuck full
o' p'ison, and' she jes' thought she'd git some
on't into you. If she'll turn her back on her
blood relations, 'count their bein' Unioners,
she'll do worse things. She don't wan't you to
help the peddler as pulled you out o' the quick
quag at Black Swamp."
" She gave me a disagreeable feeling, Jack;
but it's over now. We will ride forward softly,
and see what is up."-
They were now within a quarter of a mile of
Crosby's. A scarcely-perceptible outline of the
house could be discerned, lying among ,the
shadows of night. Some trees in the back-
ground looked like clouds.
"' Marsar," said Jack,."I kin see some one
skulkin' out yon"
"Well, ride out that way. 'There's .nothing
there that we need be afraid of," replied Brant,
reining his horse toward a line of bushes that
grew along the bank of the Forked Deer.
" I'll bet a dollar," said Jack, "' that it am one
o' shem vig'lance chaps, that's doiWF sich a heap
o' mischief in this yer town,"
" Speak low !" answered Brant,. warningly.
"Should it prove to be one of those pestilent
creatures, we'll give him what he deserves."
" Thar would be a halter,".said Jack, shaking
his head. ",Like's not he'll let drive at us."
" Let him fire, on his peril !" muttered Brant,
putting his hand to, his breast-poeket to see if
his weapons were safe.
As they neared the bank, crack went a pistol,
and a bullet whistled over John Brant's head,
and a man was. seen running-away.
" Stop, you villain !" cried Brant, springing
after him  with great quickness. Spitfire was.
up with the fugitive in a moment.
" Who are you ?" demanded, John,. fiercely.
"Why did you fire your pop-gun and run?
Hold up, and let me-see your face."
Brant seized -the man by the, shoulder, and
turned hins round., He saw the facoof Aaron
Furness. ,              ,

23

"Scoundrel. cried Brant. "What do you
mean ?"
" Let me alone !" said Aaron Furness. "I'm
bar doing' my duty ; and it'll go hard, with any-
body what interferes with me."
" You vagabond of the wortl !" answered
Brant, hot with resentment ; "cannot a gentle-
man ride along of an evening, without being
shot at by an ambushed ruffian ?"
" I didn't know ye, Squire. Be hanged if I
mistrusted who 'twas!" protested:Furness, be-
ginning to quail at the anger of the planter.
"So much' the worse ! Who but an outlaw
would fire on travelers at random?'
" I'm a 'Federate, and an officer," said Fur-
ness, putting on airs. "1h b'long to the Commit-
tee o' Safety, and it's my business to be scoutin'
about and watchin' the Unioners. Them yer
Crosbys are traitors, and we want. to git evidence
ag'in 'em. Their son Phil has deserted from
the Army, and we mistrust that he's to home.
Not a soul can leave 'thout bein' seen, and some
of , the Tenths Tennessee '11 soon have their
hands on the runaway. You're a 'Feder-te,
ain't ye, Squire Brant ?"
"I'm 'just the opposite of whatever you may
chance to be," answered John, with exceeding'
contempt.
" You allers kerried yer head over higl 1"
grumbled Aaron Furness.
" If I'd carried it a little higher, your bullet
wouldn't have gone over it," answered John.
" Come-on, you rascal!"  Brant took a firmer
hold of Aaron's collar, and put Spitfire in mo-
tion. The result was that Aaron couldn't make
his heels keep up with his head'; and so they
dragged along over the uneven 'ground. This
was a very unpleasant way of locomotion. The
squatter's old brogans rattled rapidly over
sticks ; and, stones... Aaron's b6nes were well
shaken. He cried out lustily ; he roared like
the robustious bulls. of Bashan. But John
Brant was not a man with a woman's heart. To
be fired atf eans ceremonies, by such a person as
Furness, put his aristocratic blood in a tumult.,
Jack was in an ecstasy of exultation.' His
white .eyes and his white:teeth shone like phos-
phorus. He chuckled ;, he ;opened his mou' h,
and he lifted up his laughter.. It was not loud
and boisterous ; but itwas universal, and shook
every muscle in his body.
As it happened, Ann Shore's, cabin was 'not
far off., Brant galloped to it with his prisoner,
who glided over the ground faster than ever he
went" before. , He was quite exhausted when.
Spitfire stopped.
";What ye goin' to do ?" he gasped.
"Hang ye !" said John, resolutely.
Aaron Furness tried to laugh, and to say
what a good joke it was. Nobody could joke
like Squire Brant. ' He liked jokes himself; he
always liked them-when they didn't hurt.
But bouncing his heels along "a hundred rode

I-

11


80                               THE ROUND PACK.
without, stopping, was rather no practical to Seeessionists, and the bardest on the blaeIs,
be often repeated. He hoped the Squire was He remembered many a brutal taunt that he
satisfied to offset: the dragging against the had ben- obliged to packet at various times,
shooting.                                   while he was tying Aaron Furness.. N'o man
Brant paid not the least attention to this will be-tied tamely; He will struggle and fght
whining.  He dismounted, still retaining his against it, no matter; how great the preponder.
grasp upon the squatter. Jack tied the horses, dance of antagonistic -umadle. The squatter
but was afraid to lift the latch of Ann Shore's writhed and fumed outrageously ; but there was
door. Brant, having no such scruples, pushed a fearless foot upon him, and a heart Pat over
it open with his foot, and pushed in Aat-on with the foot that never, knew what it was to be in-
heis band. The witch-house' was quite dark. It timidated. John Brant was like the horse paw-
would have been totally so, had it not been for ing at the door.-spirited, mighty in his pas-
a fire on the hearth. Jack put the brands to- sione, and Inspired-with a as ral nobility.
ether, and made a blaze. It was well that he  Aaron Furnessathreatened t6 bring the whole
id ;" for John's-rogue had availed himself of the power of the Confederacy down upon the plant-
darkness to pull outa kaifk with which he was 'e. He took precisely the wrong way to make
about to tap the planter under the, left arm. him sneeumb. His menaces :supplied just the
The dame revealed the blade, and the t1gilanec- amount of stimulus needful to make Brant pro.
man was knocked down for his good intention.  deed to eatreinitiei. After lie was bound and
" Loramity 1  I s'speet you's born to be helpless, Brent made Jack remove the loose floor
hung or drownded, Mars'r John. I has seen a boards overhead and attadh one of the cotton
good many knives and a good many pistils ropes to a rafter. Jack himself began to won--
drawed on you at races and rows but you -al- der if his master was in earnest. The squatter
Lers cones out atop. What a thing 'tie to be was lifted it p, and Ann Shpre's noose slipped
lcky !"                                     over his head. His feet were placed in a chair.
" Fly round, Jack, and find some kind of a  "Draw up the slack," said John Brant.
cord. I want to tie his hands-and feet."      Jack drew the cord tight. Brant lifted Aaron
" Keep your foot on his hack, Mars'r, and I'll till his toes rested lightly on the'wicker Seat.
raimsaek this yer witch-hole right smart."   "Draw it a little tighter, Jack."
Jack raked and poked, and groped in various  The negro drew the rope taut.
crannies, -boxes, and corners unsuccessfully ;  '- Now belay."
but at length, bursting the lid of an old chest,  Jack made a thorough knot under the rafter
he made a singular discovery. He found nine and came down.
cotton ropes, th~il slip-nooses at the ends. Ile
stood staring at them with   open mouth, which  The squatter had, ceased to threaten. Stand-
conduct attraeted thes attention of his master. ing on his toes, to prevent strangulation, he be-
J4ik counted the ropes out upon the floor, with gun to entreat. The conviction t  t Brant was
chattering teeth.                          in earnest made his blood curdle like milk. iEc
" The old fury I" exclaimed John Brant. "I'm  was a very different man from  what he, was
a Confederate, bit I'll he damned if I'd make when he discharged his pistil at Brant. Be
ropes to hang my neighbors withI"          begged for time. He revoked all that lie had
"Hol' yer breff, Marer I Ho' yer breff! said. He sore that he had meant no harm to
Let nie do the refematies."  -             Philip, or any of the family. If Brant .would
Jack began to count on hisfingers. He came let him down, he would go with him to the rec.
out of his calculations triumphantly in a few  cue. But he was wasting his breath on a per.
.moments.                                   son who was as firm as he was brave.'
"Jes' nine Union families in these yer parts.  "You'll have ample time, Aaron," he answer..
That makes, one rope to a family, 'ect to fig- ed, 't for refletioi.; But, for-the sake' of y4itt
gers.- Gorramity I' If I'd you, I 'wouldn't be family, keep=- your . heetsF well "up,; fori o
Sceesh no more.- You've got into drefful 'bad carefully -obstrvd the situation, you -will 'Set
company, Marsr John l"                      that when your heels o dcwh "roar wid-Viva
"Coe n with the ropes l The fellow is closes np, Aud don't ti over the chair, Aaron ;
squirming," answered Bren1, with a clouded for -if you' doh you will commit suicide; and
brow  "Tie his wrists; Jack  Those ropes are nothing can save you. I am now going. Good
just the things. You may draw thet coils ratas  night.".
tight,hJack."                                 Furness pleaded piteoutsly for remission of
The sooty companion and friend of Joln sentence, or foi, at least, two ineies ingre of
Brant required= little, prompting. He knotted rope, Johne Brunt:was inrotable. He went,
the cettan cords upoan the limbs ©f the squaotter out and metted Spifire..
with rare sill and celerity. His will was in  "Mrs. Beelvebub 'Ii be back one of these ye r
he;buesiness. He had, suffered much, first and days," said ask, who lingered a moment longer
last, frond the squatterelement. The dottenless than his'master.- - "You' d'r el M 'fotgh, loong
and uegtoless whites wete the smost rabid of the as you stan' el'ar e' yer heels ; but sure'i you

I

try theflato' your foOt, you'll have the phthfsie
right smart I".
An instant later, Jack was on Clipper, riding
hoof and hoof with theplanter.
CHAPTER     IX.
It was midnight when Crosby's door was
pushed open. A sergeant and nine men enter-
ed. They had the number "10" in metallic nu-
merals on their caps. It was a corporal's guard
from the Tenth Tennessee.
l hihip was not at coward, but he could not
look upon these intruders with calmness. He
remembered thef" features very well, for they
belonged to his company. Sergeant Holt was a
Jilted lover of Rachel's, and had a grudge
against the whole family. Philip and he had
not been on the best of terms, partly from natu-
ral differenees of disposition, and partly from
is affair with his sister. The unsuccessful
.itor rejoiced at this opportunity of revenging
his imaginary slights.  e fancied that the pide
of the family had prevented an allianee ; and
he was quite willing to see their pretensions
himbled. Philip had rather been hunted by
any other man than Holt. He expected that
his disguise would soon be penetrated by his
inquisitive eyes. Rachel hadplaced a jaunty
bead-dress, with floating rib ons, over his
rather unfeminine head and short hair, and he
trfied to make the frippery conceal as much of
his face as possible. While this head-gear
made him feel ridiculous, it compensated him
by affording additional security.
Int trooped the soldiers, the last one 'closing
t   ddor with the breech of his musket, in no
pfle manner .
"An exemplary family!" said the Sergeant,
tnasking his sword latter 4nits scabbard. "It
it midnight, and not a soul inbed."
"We have enough to think of to keep us
wsadke',"added (.%osby. "I have been informed
that my son Philip baa deserted."
Crosby said this very well. It would have
pleased the officer' better had he said it ill.
"tCome, 'old -mans, no ' gnn I" u  ' retorted
Ho'ts'.." Don't go to throwing dust!  I know
what'nt about you'll find."
He glanced at the false Rachel. She did not
loek fasnating to him. He thought she was
less pretty than formerly. He was glad to dig-
euwersigus' of fading-.,
" Den't be insolent" said Crosby, frowning.,
,"What is your business here ?"
"T pick up a deserter and' take him batk
to his regiment," answered Holt, with all the'
cutrtness oft brief authority.
e  uare 'looking for Philip, I suspect.
Well, search quickly and be gode. My wife
and daughter are not used to these rough
Seqnu."  ih
"&amp;The quicker  they become hardened to them

I

the better," replied the Sergeant, with a tri-
umphant leer at the spurious.Rachel. " What's
this on the floor ?" he exclaimed, giving Gilea a
sh with his foot.  " Thought 'twas a dog.
hound 'heddler, by all that's Jly' Get. up, you
'Giles yawned, and arose slowly.eHaving
arisen, he looked at Holt, and glanced at the
sol iers., The former stepped back. It seemed
an voluntary movement ; and -'some - of his
fellows smiled.
"Didn't some one push me?" asked Giles.
&amp;obody answered.
"Something was said about a dog," he added.
"Does any one present want a dog 2"
His eyes wandered from   one to another.
There was not a; man there bold enough to-say
that he wanted a dog-such a dog as Giies.
Sergeant Holt got his sword from between his
legs; and drew it out of its sheath with a hostile
flourish that came near snipping off the nose of
a corporal, who instantly clapped his fingers to
that organ, and looked at them to see if blood
had been drawn. He then scowled at his lead-
er, and prudently got out of the way.
, "We've caught you at last'!" said the Ser-
geant, grimly.
" You mean that you have' overtaken me, I
s'pose ?" replied Giles, quite unawed. "Il
you'll take that pack on your shoulders, I'll
overtake you in half the time."
The peddler made a slight gesture toward
the round pack:
"You shall have the pleasure of toting' It
back again," said Sergeant Holt, with a swag-
gering ir
g "Is that a threat !" asked Giles.
"'Consider yourself under arrest," answered
Holt.
"rt what offence Y" continued Giles, hia
shoulders seeming to grow broader, and his
height more formidable.
That'lI come out soon enough, I'll swear I
However, having brought sundry things from
your sack at a, fair price, I don't mind telling
you that there is s4eat evidence to convict
you of' being a Fedefal 'spy,- You are also
accused of enticing and, aiding a private, named
Philip' Crosby,, to leave his regin}fit."
"It-would seem," said (ilea~ sl wly, "that I
was more successful in enticing the brother
than you were in enticing the sister."
-This retort utterly upset the Sargeant.'s dig,
nity. Ridiculeu as a weapon to which-he-was
peculfarly sensitive. The Corporal, who 1a4
nearly lost, hi nose, smiled, and every privte
imamediate  dd  h esalie.
Ml; e "liaesia,;en, said the Sergea
coloring. toIace uiottce thhat, he -owns to the
char  oef spiriting away Phil Crosby."
"There's enough to hspg me without tha
according to your showing," -remarked Giles,
coolly:

,   i  ,
';,  t
';
.i'.  :
L, ,
,;
, .
,   !,; r
'  ;
'yf' ,i i
,t ' t ,
''

ROUND PACK.

81

,t  '
- ,
h1J


I Ii
't)

TEE 1:UNDv PACK.

82

TIDE ROUNL3'PACE.

"More than enough !" replied the Sergeant, them, tanmtingly... "She's .all. Seesh. she
,ijpingbirhupon 'his heels, rid  ling lis hates'Abdhitio'nists. She put uts on, the track,
sword-elt round so s toget'the scabbard out did yourmother, ,Meg;Shore."
of the way of hirknees.  he'swods'of volun-  "The more'shame to her,jI hpuld say, if I
teers are apt to get' ini the way. Civilians are believed it, which I  0-'t"
not used to being strapped iip. Straps are not  She partly believed it, but, was anxious to
their peeulier gifts. The plane, the saw, qnd find evidence to th'e poiiirary. Her mother was
te' plow-handle;, the pen, or the  overseer's singularly  volent in. her prejudices .against
whip, suit them better. But the patent-leather Northern sentiment; but she seriopsly doubted
an-d the l'ace go far to make' officers. They in- whetfier'ste would betray the Crosbys,,who had
spire an excellent feeling. Never a girl in her lavished iany favors upon her. In fact, she
first hoop feels, better, than a new-fledged lieu- lived by their 'bounty. Margaret revolted at
tenant or captain-; and' the weakness goes down the thought of such' treachery. She said, 'in-
to sergeants and corporals. ' Horses are proud wa'rdly
in new harness.  Silver-mounted saddles and   ",Ann'Shore is'not my, mother, if she has
bridles glitter in' the sun. Human nature is done this thing !"
weak.                                         The search went on. It fluctuated here and
Having swiveled his-scabbard a little beyond there ; from the rafters to the foundation-stones,
the- right place,'the young man of war, snatched from ceiling to floor, from closet to chest ; but
from peaceful pursuits to be a terrible Confed- they found no deserter. Sergeant Holt did not
etate, gave the startling order:            go with them. He remained with his five Cow,-
" Five of ybu fellows cock your pieces and federates, keeping watch over the peddler---aiid
guard this peddler. The remaining four of you over the pack.
may search this 'house from garret to cellar,  Philip's emotions 'were not of the most satin-
without being very careful about hurting things. factory description. Feeble humanity could
Jab and stab everything 'that can hide a man."  not be indifferent under such circumstances.
"You are mighty pert 'about things 'that He suffered in himself, and he suffered in the
don't belong to you." said Meg, unable longer soul of his mother. , He could not forget Ra-
to remain'silent.                           chel. He was sorry thma1 he had not fled with
" Hillo !" quoth the Sergeant, "here's Meg Giles. He kept saying to himself, "Poor girl!l
SMore !"                                    poor girl! I was -a miserable sinner to allow
" Yes,' answered  Meg, lighting . a lamp. her to'be placed in such a situatiQn. Friendly
And Meg Shore is going with your 'fellows, powers, help Rachel1"
too, to see that they take nothing that don't  Tnen the, Young fellow grew  angry. He
belong to them."'wished:to resent the indignities put upon his
Don't trifle with them, Margalet," entreated parent  ais will and his muscles ;were agreed
Mrs. Crosby, faintl.                        touching one thing. Before   - 8him  tood mn
"Do you think I'M   afraid of'em?"' aslked once'iis neighbors, some of them his playfel"
Meg, with determination. '"Not I! I've known lows, full of malice and mischief, insuting nat-
some of these creatures,. since they were boys, uiral ties by their very presegee.
and they  sed to rob hen-oosts; and steal pen-  He wanted Lo cast off his feminine deception,
ies fromn children."                        and go at the invaders, of hoine sanctity with
Meg flirted the lamp in the faces of the four all the strength of .his body and;all the fury of
serchers, and looked provokingly contemptuous. his mina.
A' lover of hers was among them, who muttered,
and turned various  colors. 'He snatched 'the           , CHAPTER, X.
light from her, and said he would have ;noneof     THE nouiD PApy1isc mSTAgBD.
her help. They went tp-stail's, and she 'wert  .he peddler, was aie calmest of, the .group.
after' them. They -tote opei beds ; they broke i stood near hit pack, confrnting .the Con-
mirrors; they tossed bonhets 'and dresses 'qn federates, ;.Pilip' observed that he .kept one
tlieir-bayonets; -while Margaret told them what hand in his coat-pocket, and he knew that Giles'
she thotight of the hriand rescued many house- usually carried, a weapon tthera,
bold goods from destruction. Several times the  The four searchers came bael without any
hoUsl was set on fire, and the rising flames were deserter. Sergeant Holt. did not appear inthe
eitlgdshd by he'. -t.was ta uneompliment- least surprised. He had been imnp ient at their
afy eonitdtent 'on the animal man, the searching long absence,,nor did he deign to, ask them a
of Crosby's "house :It proved what a power single question on their. return. - " -
artificial restraint is. on' men's actions.   "You have looked in vain,", said be, with,,so
Meg's criticisms' were- harp, her retorts out- consequential, strut. " I knew you would- not
ting:. The searchers turned on' her more than findwhat we came for. It takes a shrewd mind
once; but there was that in the girl's eyes that to seize upon a hint and follow it out."
quelled them. Hunmah ejes tame beasts.        He swiveled his sword-belt a little more, so as
" You're unlike your motner," said one of to bring his scabbard nearly over his spine.

When an officer's sword lies along his back-
bone, there is n1t r iuch danger of his getting it
between his knees. It is a good way to wear
that drendol weapon. The appearance of the
Sergeant, holding his naked blade before him,'
with his scalbard thrown away behind him,
presented a very imposing apec. There rc-
uained on the minis of hisinferiors, the sttrt-
bug pos'ibili ty thiat, in the hurry of yietory, he
might slieatie Iris conquering weapon tlirough
his own stoiach..
" While you have been -using your muscles, I
have been using my mmi1" returned the Ser-
geant., "Wit is better than walking. Some
r eis are made for nothing ; mine' are nt'of
the number."
Giles at that instant gave hima dangerous
look, and he raised the point of his sword to a,
level' with his breast, as a military necessity.
" I shall show you now, fellow-soldiers, the.
benefits of a critical disposition. Corporal
Drew, keep your bayonet well poised ot his
waistband."
The last remark had reference to the ped-
ler, and was another contingency arisiiig from
martial service.
"Not too near !" said rGies, warnngly.-
"Not'too near! you'll go back with a corpor-'
al the less, if you don't have a care."
Even the stout Corporal was awed by the
strange ways of. the peddler.
" Bring your pi ees to a charge, all of ye !"
rced Holt. " This man of' the sack is a des-
perado."            -          ..      .
There was :a simultaneous rattling of mus-
kets. The Confederates charged on the solita-
ry man with marked alacrity. Their bayonets
formed a semi-circle of glittering steel, Cor-
poral Drew   advancing nearer than thie rust,
Giles struck the bayonet with his hand turned
it half around, and snatched it from the muz-
zle. It' was done adroitly, and like one who"
had handled arms.
The -Corporal saw his own weapon pointed at
his own eye, in a fashion that was quite bewil-'
dering       .
During  this brief action, Sergeant EHolt
sprang past Giles, and Ihrust the point of his,
sword into the round pack. '
Mrs Crosby shrieked.
Philip arose and sat down again, looking bot
in the face.,'
Crosby di'opped his hand in haplesss horror.-
No sound came from the sack. As-the swvrd
eame out of the stuffs, something descended on
Doit's head. It1looked likeeighteen inches of'
hiohting ; but it was the Corporal's bayonet,
wield'ed' by the hand of the eddler. It cut
through  the Confederate cap, through    the
scalp, and left a re track across the'or anlf
firmness. The deieant, feeling weali 'sn.
leg  tunibled ;do W   't
Two of the    rivates. codk4 te t stsets.'
"' ' ',a

The round sack wa, the peddler's Lase ; be fell
back upon Is bLast and before the soldiers
knew exactly bow n was done, two rifled tubes
were pointing at tien. It happened, awkyard-
-ly enough, that a six-barrel cylinder was be-
hind each tube ; and' in each barrel reposed a
metallic cartridge, charged with powder and
tall and fulminating material. What made all
this dangerous, were the hamme and the trig-
ger, lying posterigr to the a4ge.
It is'a solemn, fact in the' ltietQryof human
a grs,, iht o, pegson-19 wiing tp take the,'p
aniuept risk of bing shot, a when nine per-
sons see twelve balleta ready to fly at them, nt
one ; o' the -number feels inclined to take the
risk. It is this pecuiarity' that operates upon
convicts in mutiiy,,when the resolute warden
stands before  iem  wih finger on trigger,
ready to send to jpdgment, the adveiturous ie
who shall be foremost in, 4sault. It was to
this fact that Gilesaowed his life; for' not a
soltlier dared to stir in the fice of death. A
1Sallidness actually crept upon every face.
Crosby found himself grasping the tab e with
one hand and the batk of his chair with the
.other, grinding his teeth together with wrath.
Had it not been for hia. worthy wife, he would
have gone 'at them with his ' nakod hands, nor
felt the pain of stabbing add laceration.
Philip caught himself in the act of, tekng ant
unwonanly stride ; aid hd the Confederates
been regarding bun tben and there, the benefits
of his disguise wodld have been lost.
Mrs., Crosb  did what a, woman always does
when her chel ren are in danger-she prayed.
Meg, the wild, was the '6st practicalyersou
among them. She seized thp musket in the
corner, and running around the table and tshe
enti' e tableaux; stood behind Giles, ready to
hans it'to him when he should h'a~ye diseliar
his pistols. This was not all that Meg did.
She had .not earned the' name of a hoyden for
nothing. It was conceded by all the'ossips of
the town, that Ann Shore's daughter ,had wast-
ed wore time in shooting a pistol than any boy
in :the ndfgliborhood,  i this instance,trAe
restless tongue of Rumor id not lie. Margaret
Shore was a excellent shot. This avepinenutis
made positively, and with no .reference  o the
auppsed inabifityof the sex to cope with nuias-
cuhine skill. "Phi ip had been her first instrue-
ter, and freI ini she 'had received, as a birta
day pre ent;a splendid " Colt", ire a hari soin
rsewood 'ease. In a. moment of enthusiasr4
the 3outh had cornmitta- himself to this gitt.
Tyuera was ,io love about, it .that he knew uF;
bfft with Margalt it w.1s a serious thing s1n -
an-nture, hovevd Wild, is d fferent fi biman-
nature. Th' gilt 1i  argaaVt's   es issunmed a
very spered chbarater': a thiug' which'she segu-
Pulduel gonceatld from him. She received--it
with a ap  eshle'arrid it     wimh sigli  a
e   1 at46  id  d   ' f df ',ler. S Nj

I
1
A!

d
; ,
.4';
,


24

-   'NI LACK-.

times enme on, ni:d te dlaiig'ro.i a iveur be.. 'ler. The black face was set on Black Jack's
came her coupanion' and dei shed fi ienl. The shoulders. Master and man had arrived.
girl would have cut off the hand tlit held it,  Brant was heated and red, and ready to throw-
and plucked our. the eye that" aimed it, b.-fore himself into the contest. Perceiving the ped-
she would have acknowledged its value to her dier pitted against such odds, he rushed upon
solitary heart.                            the Sergeanut, and, seizing him by the shoulder,
Brown Meg drew this memorable weapon, turned him thrice round, before that officer
and while she supported the nusket in her left could recoverghis equilibrium.
hand, pointed it at the Sergeant with the right. "What means nine men to one man and a
This was, to Giley, an unexpected development. girl " roared John Brant ; and then he shook
It required all his extraordinary self-control to the Sergeant.  -
prevent him from looking over his shoulder at
eg-a movement which would certainly have                CHAPTER Xi.
been fatal to him ; for it was the power of his  RACHEL, OR THE CAT LET OUT OF THE BAG.
eyes that held his enemies in abeyance.     ri"Why don't you take him off, you villains!"
cried Sergeant Holt, trying to pick up his
He had a curious feeling at his heart, had sword. "Will you see your leader murdered,
Giles. He had time, even in that moment of without lifting a bayonet or cocking a gun ?"
peril, to regret that he had been so severe on  There was a wild clang of weapons, and a few
the girl. Probably it added to his own courage, rusty bayonets were directed at John Brant, who-
to be backed up and supported by that brown, then released the Sergeant.
yet pretty face. He felt stronger than he did, Brant was well known in the region of the
before she came behind him.                Forked Deer, aid his courage and strength were
" Get out of range, Meg !" he whispered, with- held in wholesome reverence. \Although not
out moving his head. ~If they fire, you will quick to nuarrel, he was ready, at all times, to
certainly be shot."                        resent an affront. No man's hand went to his
"Don't think of that," murmured Meg. 'I'm  pocket for a weapon with more determination
not of much account, Mind others, not me."of purpose, and less fear of consequences, than
Then to Holt : "Sergeant, I shot better than Jan Brant's. Those gray-clad fractions of the
you up at Paw-Paw Fvrd ; and John Brant said reith Tennessee did not care to assault him
so. I can shoot better now than ever.''    withdangerous zeal. The planter waved back
The Sergeant, who had by this time recover- their muskets, and warned them to be manner-
ed his feet, received this with open eyes and ly.
wondering looks. There was no remedy abut   Holt, having recovered his sword and his,
patience. He called for a parley, lie thought vore, protested earnestly against interference.
of artifice.e        r      y                  I came here," said he, ' to perform an im-
"Peddler," said Holt, "I have orders to ar- perative duty ; and I call on you, Sir, and every
rest you, and march you to the head-quarters good member of the Confederacy, to aid we in
of the Tenth Tennessee. Now, why don't you the same.-
be reasonable? Resistance won't do. I know "Spare   a long story, and tell me what you
where the missing Phil Crosby is ; he's in that were doing?" asked Johin Brant.
Lek!V   He's got to go back to his regiment.  "Standing before you." added Holt, looking
You may shoot somebody, I know, If I say, at the peddler, "is a federal spy, whose arti-
l   a y  saim."  o                       flees have been particularly damaging to the
"If you say 'Fire' " cried Giles pushing his Confederacy in this section of Tennessee. He
pistol against the Sergeant's forehead, " I 1 has been the means of many desertions from
low your brains out ."                    the Army."        vt
The fact was, that every soldier, taking the  "What proof have you of this "inquired
hint, had cocked and leveled his piece, when Brant.
Holt said "Ready-Aim". Foiled, the ingen-   "l'll give you indisputable  aroof of it pres.
rioue Sergeant stopped where lie was, with at, ently," continued the Sergeant. "'hat he as-
least quarter of an ipch of pure white around listed in the escape.of Philip Crosby, is a mat-
his mouth. A white mouth tells its own story. ter beyond doubt. The vocation of a peddler
Not a man fired. A fellow, more treacherous is merely assumed, to enable him to carry out,
or more daring thanhis comrade, was going his traitorous designs. It is barely two days
to, but a tremor of his arms betrayed him and since he was within the lines of our Army, sell-
he grew palest of all, and shielded himself be- ing his trumpery stuff, and pieling up informa'
hind his left-hand man. The movement con- tion."ay
vited him, and be stood trembling.          " If he is such a character as you represent
At that moment the hurriedgal op of horses him, why was he permitted to go and come with
a hatont the latch was lifted, and the impunitY ?" asked Brant, who had been eyeing
was heard without, thet    as     , a. h         dlrsa
door hurled'back on its hinges. John Brant ap- the p fddlersarw         au.
feared, and a black face looked over his shoal-  "qire-Brant, we have but r

N;

THE ROUND PACK.

sently discovered his trade. As a consequence
of this discovery,. he must go with me and be
hanged!I"  '0
I my have objections to this," observed
Brant.
"Interfere with me at your peril 1" retorted
Holt. "As for the insult you have airady of-
fered me, I shall call you to account or it-in
due time."
$    *Anytime willseconvenient. I would ad-
vise you, however, to' uieet me with shears ; as
I have observed that people fight the best with
those weapons to which they have been accus-
tomed."
Sergeant Hlt had been a tailor by calling,
and on the breaking out of the war had ex-
changed the goose for the sword ; hence John.
Brant's thrust with the shears. It was a cruel
stab. The man who had sat crosslegged on a
board, could not have been. more roughly cross-
ed by human speech, He was pressed to the
wall. He grew white ,with anger. Gladly, in-
deed, would h'e have immolated John Brant.
He felt himself belittled and humiliated in the
presence of his men. The twirlin and shaking
were nothing to the clip of the shears. From
that moment he hated the planter with-a dan-
gerous hatred. He inwardly swore vengeance
of the most summary kind.   His voice was
husky with anger, when he said:
"I'l report you, Sir, at head-quarters."
-" Very well," said John Brant, coolly. " Men-
tion the shears. As for the goose you will rep-
r sent it very well yourself, wherever you go.
I wish you had brought your needles with you ;
for, in mounting Spitfire, I tore my breeches."
It is a miserable fact that ridicule is always
pleasing to the human mind, and the Sergeant's
guard laughed to a man.
"You'll go under arrest, my fine fellows, when
we get back to quarters I" fumed the indignant
officer.
He swallowed down his rage sufficiently to go
on with what was uppermost in his mind.
."We're attending to business now, Sir," he
said, addressing the planter. " Our little affair
will keep. You observe that-sack, don't you?"
"I see a parcel of goods," answered Brant.
" It may be called pack, sack, or bundle."
"=Well, Sir," added Holt, with, increasing hau-
teur, "'in that pack I propose to find something
more than the wares commonly dealt in by ped-
lers."
"Poor RichardI" thought Philip, who was
seriously tempted to avow his identity.
"Do not chalk so much around he edg. of
your anbject, my friend.- Make a straiglit/',ut
at the subject."
" Mr. Brant," exclaimed the officer, setting his
teeth hard together, "the time will come when
you will regret these insults. If you step on a
rattlesnake, don't complain if he bites you."
" A goed figure," laughed Brant, " because

your legs have been coiled up much of your
life."
" Corporal- Drew," said Holt, "untie that
pack."
"And cabbage nothing !" quoth Brant, grave-
ly.
Sergeant Holt gave the planter an annihilat-
ing look, but which did not harm him.
"Keep that yer man off t" answered the Cor-
poral, with a proper regard to his safety.
He laid his musket on the floor, and went at
the knot, the peddler looking on calmly.
It was an anxiou4 moment for the Crosbys.
The safety of Philip depended on the nerves of
Rachel.., Giles expected to see her come out of
the sack in a dead swoon. That would tell
badly on their plan. - He quietly made up his
mind that nothing but steel and muscle would
save Philip and himself So he began to make
calculations, and to back toward the wall. He
glanced, too, at Philip, and gave a significant
nod to Meg, who carried Crosby's musket, and
placed it where the young man could easily get
it. Then she pushed her way resolutely back
to the round pack to aid Rachel the moment
she needed help.
"Come out, Philip I" said Giles, when the
canvas was unknotted.  " Come out, my boy;
the game is up."
Instantly the round pack lost its roundness,
and fell into confusion. Out sprang Rachel,
smart and dashing in her uniform, cap in hand;
and not long in hand, either; for she clapped
it on her head the first thing she did.
The friends of this fictitious youth were agree-
ably surprised. The girl gave no indications
of shrinking.- There was not that pallor about
the mouth which prognosticates fainting  Hav-
ing glanced around at the parties, she retreated
between Giles and Brant, and folding her arms,
and dropping her chin, affected to look at the
Confederates sullenly.
The lights had been skillfully placed by Meg
before the arrival of the military posse. The
flames of the candles flared feebly on her face,
increasing instead of detracting from its brown-
ness. Sergeant Holt had no reason to believe
that any other than Philip Crosby stood before
him. His satisfaction was too apparent to be un-
noticed. Color came back to his countenance.
The angry expression of his lips settled into a
smile. His character for sagacity, he thought,
was established. Promotion loomed before him.
Lieutenants would be leaped, probably, and a
captaincy was the very least that he would be
willing to accept.
He did not put up his sword, but, like Peter,
was ready to cut off somebody's ear. He turn-
ed to piles, loftily, and said: -
"Your artifice, Sir, was ingenious, but you
must. know that there are those as skillful at
findingtas you are at hiding.  Oprporal Drw,

I


36                              THE ROUND      PACK.
letoi r fellows.cjlose up arQ'md the deserter, and -remark, is indescribable. .There was na dangei
mind that the peddler loes not get away.  -that. .could.effectually squeloti her disposition
" I havo soe rcpaarks- to makiq," interposed to satire.'.
John Brant. "Phil and I used to hunt' togeth  ".There. is, no need-ofvileune, '..observed
er "        .,-J. -                    .:the spurious Philip, speaking up grnfy. 4"I'll
"You won't be likely tohunt any morettof ga with you quietly. But.I don'tsee what-you
get'ei,," said Holt. ,"                    have o.do withs.this' man."
"He did mem  a good .urn once," etntinued  -  I  ould not let that fellow go for hisweight
Brsnt, "a and a. person who does nma old tur4 in gold !" cried Holt. a" Move up, menl move
is never forgotten by:me,"      ' ..       up : Don't be afraid of priskingtihem."..-
11eldokpd at the peddler,bit the latter bowed  Out came Bran's avolser.. The ,peddler al.
no signs of repognitioa,. or the leat.-apparent ready had.his inhis hand.
consciousness that he had met him before.  In  "l can- tell you.one thing' said-the latter.
the athletic frame, broad shoulders,,and.moody  " He that pricks ne or this lad, will never have
flee of Giles, Brant fancied' he e.uldsee some further use for bayonet brigun."
eesemblance to the hero ofBlak$wamp., To he. .Iis. eyes looked like- those of som. royal
under such an important obligation to a mere' beast at. bay. Ieo whose weapon waslnearest,
h wker of goods was not agreeable. to his, pride; fell back.     . . .d.n-w
and after hohadbeen chargedwith being'iFed-  Jack, who had. kept in, the-.background,.now
by aolt, itis toJpe confessed that he sus- edged forward so that: his. master could see
tmne   rnorerespect. for him, in. Oat character him.  '                 at-the lights.
tian ethe other. A. man who hois the. courage  ' Jack,'! said Brant, and glanced at the lights
to dare great dangers al'ys commands, adni- Fle.comprehended,,but Meg:Wildfire caught his
ration evqn from his enemies.. Herecalledthe meaaing first She was quick at a.hint. She
.making words of Aan Shore, which..dW not thought; she divined .the plan. of nation. Just
warm his benevol.enee Qa igereaae hisenthusi- behind Giles was awindow,.run ing nearly, to
asm. His thoughts flew quikei: than they can. I4 floor. .It was darkepied by.4 wooden shut.
be writtenandcbadnotJhis mind been preious- ter on the outside, qadthusmnasked,.almost on..
ly. determined, he ,mighi .haviq abandoned the' tirely escaped the notice-of the posse. Bat the
peddler to his fate, without a wordria his favor, peddler and Brant, far more observant, noted it
Come, Sergeant,. let us qompromise this well, and had.asimikar; itention concerning'it,
peasant matter'" he said, in a more friendly ",, Jteg Wildfire swapt the candles from the
one, ,"Tpe your boys, and go back, to your mantle.,with her.hand. The room.was dark in-
rgrurent.  eport to your eom minding .offcer ah, i"istant,.for, the- 'embers on the hearth.had
tat the lad Philip is within thePederal linen, crumbled to ashes. Every face became invisible.
sd.out of your reach.. Look athint!"' He     t "Iire P' shouted: the Sergeant, but. no man
paused, and glanced appealingly to the soldiers, fie, 4ring-be should hit his; neighbor; and
' Lo'l 'at  minaimen! ie Ue  a mere, youth. the,.Sergeant himself, having;such' a. possibility
tie's a conseript,,too. It is no crine,-neigh- in his'mind, crouched to-theloor, so that dan-
bors, to, run awayfrom a pqe'that isdisagree- gerous missiles might go over him., -.
abi a to you. There are hig parents andsistem.  The peddler discharged one barrel:of his pie.
oby, yosee, is a middle-aged man,,andshas tol, 'and prying, "Follow me!" sprang .at the
wound led arm. lie was hacked in.battle, window.
ughting the JFederals  Consider that in his'-fa-' Theie was:'a .sudden crashing of glass :and
vor.°Phil was' anxious about, hhn, and came :ash, and the astout.shutter was driven several
home to ee him. lie ought to have;had a yards from the house by Giles'powerful shoul-
pass, but the Confederates, won't give any ders.,. Seizing the,~slight youth by the waist,
passes:'"        'John .rant . are                        the 'low window-sill at a
"pWe can't stop to hear a sermon," muttered bound. Two musket-bal.ls followed.him.. One
Holt, in whose memory .the shears were still -grazed, achel's cheeksgand the other made a
rautkliag.                                 rqugh track long John's arm.,. This:stunghum
Thutim    maycone," "cried Margaret .to quiclkermovement. When he reached Spit.
Shore "when you'll, wanta seriony   .'  .fire, the peddler had torn the bridle from-the
"What I want now, are my prisonrs.. John limb over which it' had been, thrown,,an'd was
Brant, stand back t"                       adjusting it over the animal's neck. Into the
"I won't "said Brant, throwing.ip his head saddle vaulted, irant, sud -grasping the suppos-
like a war-horse.   'ed Philip. by the collar,; drew .huiai                  p behind
f'I give you fair warning that Lsehall order him.
ymen tofire it you attempt a resue." Of 1" denied Giles.
"Resuey!"       ou  -g."Twp        and .a ,"T'ake-Clipper!'1 answered :Brant, hurriedly.
boy sug. ine men withsykyt        And a   i;ie is yours NQ other maaiconldebasve hia.
4:r c   ia.' 44 sergeant .-w t lsmyd l  Th.:eg m But Qu drow aoefran the quiekimudof Blace
Piseplaed cra 9 a     44   e     rnq tg    w    9  ;lsein We-a--a dsave yonwelf."

THE ROUND PACK.

The coneluding words were spoken after Spit-
fire was in 'motion. By the time-the door was,
open, John Brant was rods away, and fences
and trees Were flying past' him like winged
shadows.
The peddler mounted Clipper, 'whd, feeling his
weight,;stood erect oh his 'hind feet, arching his
neck and snorting.
"Farewell, good fellows !" cried Giles; wav-
'ang his hand.  "Be careful of the' round
pack !"
'With these tantalizing words, he gave Clip-
per the bit, and was boundingaway with splen-
did speed. A    eaeet' of flame leaped after
him.
CHAPTER XII.
ANN SHORE SPEAKS mER iaD TO CEmA.
Celia sat, thinking of John Brant. He had
been gone an hour. She had heard. Spitfire
#rnd Clipper clattering away finely, and resolved
not to retire till-the return of her reckless liege.
11er feelings about his goinm down to Crosby's
were contradictory  She wished him to assist
Philip  but she had heard rumors concerning
aell's'beauty, and John's admiration of her.
There were a few gossips even on the banks of the
Forked Deer; and -whatever was uncharitable
to man or woman was peddled by them with as
much zest as if they had lived in a populous
town, where scandal makes a 'louder buzzing in
the hutman-hive.
Rachel was handsome, and John Brant was
brave. This fancy troubled her. She tried to
smother it, but thoughts flit through the brain
like birds through the a-.
While she' was thus borrowing trouble, in
stalked Ann Shrore, with Grimkey at her heels.
She paused upon the threshold in precisely the
same manner that she had stopped in te road
before Brant. Her'cane was thrust out 'before,
her withered hands resting upon the top, while
its lower end was braced on the floor.- Grinkey
stood in the rear and greiwled, ereting his-ears
and bristling-along his back.
The woman's approach 'had been so silent and
unexpected, that Celia was at first quite 'terri-
fled.; nor did she immediately recover her calm-
Hess. This wasanot her first ,meeting with Ann
Shore, and her memories of her were not pleas-
ant., She was too much surprised to bid her
come in or .go out,-.a want-ofattention which
Ann resented.'
"You might bid one come or go,"'sho mut-
tered.                          .
C ome in I"said Celia, faintly..
"A weak weleomhe, Celia ;a weak welcome I''
said Ann, advancing. "Perhaps you-dod't like
a witch inder your roof?"she added.
Mlru Brant'shivered as i-e woman'drew near.
Iam the du  light of the room, the solemn-faced
ad faded woma    lked like i creature of
evil.

- " Why do y'ou call me C lia ?" faltered the
niistre s of the house. . "We have not met
often, and our acq'unintance is sligh .
Ann Shore 'ddntracte'd her fIie,'as if she would
draw every feature to her mouth.
"I thank ye for that !" she, evelaimed. and
theft stoodstock still. Her'looks *ere ominous.
" Sit dowil!" 'said Celia, the words seeming
to stick to her mouth.
" I've trudged far," retoi'tedl Ann, " but I
can stand-to say what little I have to say. John
Brant'has gone down to Crosby's. I net himn
on the way"
There was a boding note in her voice. Grim-
key made some eroeking growls in his throat.
"The Crosbys are in trouble," Mrs. Brant
answered.
" And their trouble never will be less !" said
Ann,: with emphasis.   "Their son deserted.
Let the punishment for -desertion be meted out
to him."
" The Crosbys are akin to. you, I have
'heard ?"
"Not a whit !"' cried Ain 'Shore. 'They
were once, but treason has cured them of thiat.
No relation am I 'to Abolition traitoi-s !"
A few moments of silence ensued.
"Philip and the peddler are on their way to
head-quarters before this time," she added, re-
flectively, but without the 'appearance of re-
morse. - "Your man and master rode to the
rescue ; but too late rode he. But he will find
Rachel, perchance. Sire may make him amends
for 'disappointment."
" You are a prompter of evil thoughtsI"
responded  Mrs. -Brant, inwardly disturbed.
"You had.better leave my house."
"Your house, indeed ! You belong to the
house, and not the house to you."
Grirmkey made a stiff back at Mrs. Brant.
The wrinkles on Ann Shore's face were rigidly
fixed.
"Good .woman,"'entreated Celia, "do not
stay ; I beg of you to go."
"Stay I will, and go I wil not! You asked
me just now why 1 called you Celia ? It was
wrong ,to call you'that. I should have given it
a shorter sound,'and pronohnned it as they used
to on the pIlantation where you were born; they
called it.Cely. It was Cely here and Cely there.
It is a favorite name amng the slaves "
- ".I will 'not hear you'!" llcried Mrs Brant.
"If you dbonot stop, I will ring and have the
servants put you out."
," I dtre you to ring 1" retorted Ann, shakitig
her 'withered hand at the 'trembling woman
before her. i "Ring, and I will proelaia before
them all that you are a itve 1"
Celia 'sadk back ii. her hair, 'panting for
breath. '
'" am  the wife of John Baii," s eaid,
frtsentl, yin 'agesplng 'tic&amp; 'p'I nilh telhi
of the intsult you havre pnv upo et n.'1

U

4

,,:
,,
,   ,,


88                              TUiE ROUND PACK.
" Bravely  said I"  sneered  the  woman.   Celia's'hands fell helplessly to her side. She
" Bravely said, but falsely. John Brant is not settled back in her chair, bereft of the power of
your husband, and you are no wife."        speech.
" Did you come here to tell me this ?" asked  " You read, you write ; you talk French with
Celia, alarmingly pale. "Is there no other a sweet patois; you speak hard German so wan-
calumny that you can repeat?"              tonly that you make it soft to the ear; y.u
"Truth, and nothing but truth !" affirmed 'sing, you play, you ravish the soul with
Ann Shore, rapping on the floor with her cane. melody. At great balls, you conquerall hears;
"You cannot gainsay me. Your father was you dance divinely. You charm your guests.
white, and your mother was a yellow and You have made men mad with jealousy. You
dainty bit of a mistress. She sold, on the block, have borne the palm of beauty a season at the
for three thousand five hundred dollars, and once mighty bub now fallen Washington. You
our father was the purchaser.  it was a rare are man's embodiment of woman. He would
bargain !"                                  select you, from a thousand blushing belles, to
She rapped again with her cane.          make a home of. But all these things are your
"tIt was a rare bargain, for she was a yellow  curse and your bane. You do not own your.
rose. Her hands never touched work, and a self. You are a chattel, a thing, a property, to
lady lived she. At New Orleans, it was thought be bought and sold."d              t
nothing of, although he had a family North.  Ann Shore rapped long and loud on the
Society sanctions those things down there , and floorbu a
the fairest women that you meet on the streets  Grimkey-looked for a kitten. to worry, but not
are the pretty toys of rich men. Come! come I finding any, snarled at random.
aO shiverings,:Cely. Well enough knew you    " 1 wish I were dead !" murmured Celia, in
what   i hive tuld you ; but you thought it fainting accents.
wasn't known here. A dangerous secret for a   "It would be a good thing for you !" mutter-
witch to keep! The next time you speak of the ed Ann. " All this comes of getting above
witch, Ann Shore, you'll have something to your station. . People that keep low don't have
hate her for. You thought it was known to any falls. The greatest fall is yet to cone.
John Brant, only ; but there's one besides me This place will be sold, by-and-by. This house
that's got the secret ; one that often sees ye, will 'be sold, .and the horses will be sold, and
too."                                      the slaves will be sold ; and you will go with
" You have told me one falsehood," said Celia, the slaves and horses. I know the man that will
indignantly. 1 I am married to John Brant."  hold the hammer that will knock you down to
"A pretty marriage it must have been ! A the lowest bidder ; and I know the bidder."
mighty nice thing it was, to be sure ! You   "If I had strength to ring that bell, I'd have
sold for five hundred dollars less than your you thrown from the window !" said Celia, to
mother, and the buyer-married you !"       whom resentment had given courage. ".You
It is impossible to describe the acrimony are a horrid creatures Poor Meg! I wonder
that Ann Thore threw into the two concluding not that she bears an evil name. She has lived
words.                                     with a fiend."
" Can a slave marry the master? Is it legal ?  "Trouble not yourself for Meg. She is white
Is it valid in law ? four fine education ought and free, and loves not John Brant. There is
to make you something more than a fool. They one John likes, if she likes not him. Perhaps
don't educate young ladies very thoroughly at he'll bring her here forsafety. Who-knows but
Baltimore, do they ?  You'll have to take an- he'll shelter the Crosbys in his castle. Then she
other long term at some Northern seminary, to can ride with him on his high horse.- Ishouldn't
eke out your knowledge of law."'      W    marvel if thatshould come to pass. Watch him
"What a vile woman !" exclaimed Celia, well.' He'll bear watching. Every man will
nearly dead with the consciousness of the truth bear watching, you'll find."
of what she heard.                             This is worst of all I" cried Celia, now thor-
"Those are vile enough who tell us the oughly angry. "I should be a fool to bear this
truth," returned Ann. "Thewhole world will longer. I'll have my way once, though the
be vile, by-and-by, for you will hear the truth heavens fall. I'll do an act of justice, thought
spoken in the market-places, and in the corners be my last."
of the streets. Isn't it a pity that a little black  She sprang at the bell ; she pulled it with a
blood should'poison the whole lump? Negro strong, impetuous hand. Never in the memory
blood is like the leaven that was hidden in the of the servants did it speak with a tongue so
measure of meal, until the whole was leavened, imperative. .k
You are very pret, Mistress Cely. Your       "On your peril ! on your peril e" croaked
teeth are pearls; y'It lips are coral ; your Ann Shore, wagging her head and thumping
skin is alabaster ;, your eyes are diamonds'; with her cane.    -
your hair is silken threads; your form is like  But Mrs. Brant *as not now to be put down
the marble Venus. But you are a slave !"   or diverted from her purpose. Nothing short of

THE ROUND      PACK.                                gg
physical force could have stopped her. She him or his gallant horse, save to increase his
stood there, glowing, and flashing, and beauti- speed.
ful in her just wrath. She did not once turn  Here was an embarrassing situation for Holt.
her eyes from Ann Shore, who continued to re- Away flew his imaginary epaulettes on the nim-
iterate:                                 'ble heels of Spitfire and Clipper. His hope-
"On your peril! on your peril !"          went 'out like a candle. He was mentally ex-
In came the servants in wondering hage  -tinguished. He stood gazing in the direction of
" Seize this old woman and thrust her out of the Paw-Paw Ford irr dismay. He couldn't re-
the house !" commanded Celia. "You need not alize that Philip Crosby and the peddler had
be over gentle with her, for she is full of venom  slipped away from him so completely. When
and ,wickedness."                           he had recovered his faculties, he improved
"If you dare! it you dare !" mumbled Ann them in abusing his men for suffering his game
Shore.                                      to elude them. He bestowed upon them many
Some black hands were laid on her in an in- names not to be found in military works. Offi-
stant  Ned and Sam, two stout-negroes, tugged cers 'of every grade,..I have observed, have a
at her shoulders, and she was out of the room right to swear at their inferiors, and to use them
and out of the house before Celia could realize scurvily whenever they have a'mind.
what she had done. One of her maids caught,   When Holt had exhausted his fury on his
Grimkey to throw him out of the window ; but subordinates, he examined the peddler's pack,
his sharp teeth forced her to drop him, when he and after whipping a few things under his coat
ran after his mistress, howling an angry pro- which he thought might be useful to a person
tesk..                                      of his rank in the dire contingencies of war, he
"They're gwine-to put her under the pump, -gave  he order to march on the double-quick to
Missus," said the maid, coming in after a mu- Paw-Paw Ford ; but not a man of his highly-
ments absence.                             disciplined posse would lift a leg to the double-
" Go and tell them not to harm a hair of her quick or any other step, till lie had snatched a
head !" answered Celia.                     piece of stuff from the lessening heap. It ought
The girl, awed by the peremptory manner of to be well kniwn that pillage, is a part of the
her mistress, hurried to do their bidding.  soldier's duty ; at any rate, he never neglects
Celia felt relieved of a terrible presence. She to plunder when an opportunity offers  War is
threw herself upon a lounge, to get calm ; for a great school of the evil passions. If there is
she was breathing unnat urally, and her heart anything that cannot be learned in an army, one
was beating frightfully fast. There was a dull, would have to go to the lower regions to find it
heavy pressure on her brain, and her face and out. - A respectable volunteer can become a
her hands were hot. From heat and horror'she thief in three months, and a chaplain, in one
passed into a peaceful sleep.               year, will take to sacking as naturally as if sack-
ed cities were an every-day occurrence.
CHAPTER XIII.                    When each had taken a souvenir from the
IN WHICH MaG SHORE BECOMES A GUID.      peddler's parcel, they were kind enough to sub-
I mit to orders, and went tramping up the Furked
Sergeant Holt was thoroughly surprised and Deer.
disgusted at the turn affairs had'taker. He had  That Philip was anxious during these little
not reckoned up the possibility of an escape in preliminaries, may be believed, and o often did
the manner related ; and, in truth, was scarcely the trembling mother sigh with secret dread.
aware that there was a window at Giles' back. Never was the thoughtless boy at her side so
The suddenness of the exit he considered ex- dear to her heart.
traordinary. Having passed a great part of    M egShore was fearless to ;the last, and' even
his life on a bench, with his legs tied into a interfered to rescue the property of Giles ; and
knot, feats of muscular strength and dexterity it is doubtful if an article of any value would
were as much a novelty to him as the tricks of have been left, had she not Stepped between,
a juggler. The clash and clatter of the escape and speaking her mind plainly, shamed some
for the moment demoralized him ; so that he and intimidated others. Being witty, and pret-
had not the presence, of mind to lift a weapon, ty, and brave, she really exerted upon them a
or to repeat his order to fire. The two Confed- strong restraining influence.  corporal Drew
-crates who discharged their pieces after Giles declared that he would fire the house, and
and Brant, and leaped through the window, had starched the dead ashes for a brand ; but Meg's
done so more from accident than intention ; al- taunts and sarcasms made him leave the house,
though their shots came near doing serious mis- cowed and muttering:
chief.                                        "You're a smart set of lads !" she said, when
As we have noticed, there was a rush out of they were forming at t j door., "You couldn't
the house when Brant was galloping off with take two ien and an unarmed l4ywhen ion
the supposed deserter, and a numbnter of billets iadW toeiim fenced in with bas on4 ts!  A iie
were sent ifter Giles, without 'alpparent effect, on arny it is, if the rest of 'en a -e like you !

, '{
'j ,
c,
;
t  ,
',
1'
',,


TE  ROUND PACK.                  41

What a country *e Shall- have when 'tailors
rule ! I remember, Sergeant, the last time you
came here, as well as if it wasn't but yester.
day.' 'on wbre a spruce suit that you cut and
made yourself.  Do you recollect your er-
rand ?"
Margaret Shore made a comical face, and the
men gave signs of enjoyitig her hits.
"You came to see Rachel Crosby. What
sent you, the powers of folly only know; for
Rachel always gave you the go-by, athome and
abroad ? Well, you got ybur answer.' 'Tell us
what it was, won't you? The Corporal would
like to hear, and the men would like to hear, and
we should 'all like to h   Come, Sergeant,
#hat did she gay?"
It was not so much the words as the manner
of their utterance that made them provoking.
They were inimitably mouthed--with a pretty
mouth.
Holt said some words, not in Murray% large
edition of Chesterfield,'and instantly gave the
order to march. Every member of the house.
hold felt relieved. Fervently Mrs. Crosby
thanked the'Benevolent Powers for this deliver-
ance. She embraced Philip tenderly, and it re-
quired all the helpful energy of Margaret Shore
to keep her from fainting. Philip began to feel
a sentiment of gratitude toward this eccentric
girl. He looked at her with more attention than
evei before in his life.
" Truly," thought he, "Meg might be a worse-
looking girl,'and a worse-behaved girl, too. To
be sure, one would hardly want to marry Meg,
because her mother is such a witch, and she is
such a hoyden."
But there were now other matters to think
of; but it is doubtful if they would have been
attended to, without the promptings of this
same Meg. ' To remain long there, would 'be to
fall arain into the danger which he had just
evaded. It was needful to throw off his dis-
gnise, for garments to which he was accustomed.,
t was thought best that he should not change
his apparel at hone, as Rachel's gown and shawl
might help him to get away unnoticed, or at
least unquestioned, by any lurkers in the vi
eiaity.
Mrs. Crosby soon tade up a bundle of clothes,
wheei considerable discussion followed about his
destination. Margaret Shore listeiled with iin-
patience.                           -
"Every minute,".said she, breaking in upon
the conversation, "is worth ever so much. Ben
Watrous( or some of his clan, inay be lurking
round to see what -has happened; and it would'
be like him to come in and make trouble. The
best thing you can do is, to start at once. The
deception may be dlteo4ered between this and
Paw-Paw Ford, and there is a strong probability
that it will he after they'reach there. Well, if
they find out that they've got Rachel instead

of you, they'll be back again, and there'll ho
such a'search here as never was before."
The Crosbys readily agreed that this was rea-
sonable, but they could not even guess at what
appeared a safe place of retreat. Without a
word more, Margaret put on her bonnet and
shawl, tnd taking up the bundle, said :
"Come, Phil l"
9 What's' the girl going to do.?" he asked,
while passively' submitting to be shawled and
bonnetted.
"Will you come along ?" demanded Meg,
petulantly.  "Do you want to be carried to-
head-quarte's and shot?"
' Not I, Meg! !"But what good you can do
me, I don't know. Girls don't usually like to
go tramping about with young fellows at night."
4 Go with Margaret, my son. She is a way-
ward child, but not without discretion. Her
foresight and ingenuity will be of great benefit to
you in this strait."'
' Im to have a she-guide, eh ?" replied 1l.-
ip, dubiously.
" If you go now," said Meg, sharply. " But
if you stand shilly-shallying here much longer,
not a step will I take to savd you from the Ser-
geant.,,
Margaret," said Mr. Crosby, much disturb-
ed, " you are taking a terrible responsibility.
But you are well acquainted with the country.
If any person can conduct him to a hiding-
place, I think you can. Be prudent, girl. Do
not forget that the life of my son is intrusted to
your hand. Oft my own part, I do gratefully
accept Sout' offer to show him the way. If 1
have, at any time, been over-hard on your way-
wardness, I hope you'll forget it, and show your
affection to our family by saving Philip.  I
know that he and you never agreed over well,
and that he has had many a fluig at your jiild-
ness ; hut let your conduct to-night prove that
you can overlook petty slights and sarcasms."
" If Philip '11 come along, I'll do my best to
get hims away from Ben Watrous and his spies,"
answered Meg, promptly.
" Well, Meg, give me the bundle," said Phil-
ip. " You are not going to fetch and carry for
m     Y like a mastiff. We'e not going like an Irish
emigrant and his wife--the latter takingthe
bundle."g
"For appearance' sake," answered Meg, open-
ing the door, "I must be our servant for this
once. But I wouldn't lift my hand for you,
Phil, if you weren't in danger."
Philip shook hands with his father and moth-
er. The boy felt tears dropping on his hand,
and to hide his own emotions, said, with affected
cheerfulness to Meg:
" Go on, Miss Wildfire I I'm in marching or-
der." Then he added, "Farewell, mother 1'
and followed Margaret Shore.

CHAPTER XIV.
IN WHIOH IT IS SHOWN-THAT A PISTOL TO THE
NOSE IS COLD COMFORT,
Out went Meg and Phil into the night. Thick
was the darkness, and low drifted the clouds.
The course of the Forked Deer looked like a
black thread winding along the flat bottoms.
The rank shrubbery on the -banks, seen imper-
fectly through the obscurity, took fantastic
shapes. In the background of the river was a
great bank of darkness, formed by forest and
,ill.
Philip's guide did not pause to deliberate,
but struck off briskly ifi a narrow path which
diverged gradually from the line of the stream.
The young inah asked no questions, at first, but
walked after her quietly. They passed in the
rear of Ann Shore's catin, and their faces were
toward the wooded highlands.
,'They were making- excellent pi'ogress, when
Meg espied some one approaching from the op-
posite direction, and warned her companion to
be discreet.
" Discreet as a matron, Meg .' sld Phil.
"It' 11 be a new thing, then; for your hot
temper always did run away with your sense. I
believe it is Watrous, Phil. There never was
such a lurker . He wants to know what has hap-
pened down at your house. He sleeps days
and :prowls o' nights. Do keep your tongue
still, and leave the matter of excuses to me."
Margaret was right respecting the identity of
the person who was coming toward them. Wat-
1 cus, seeing two persons in his path, walked
Mhewly till they were near enough for him to
discover -that they were females. Being satis-
fied-of this, he went on bravely. He manifest-
ed considerable astonishment at meeting Rachel
and Meg at such an unseasonable hour.
" What's up?"4,asked Ben Watrous.  "What
Means this yer ?"
"We can't rtop to ansirer questions," an-
swered Meg, "so don't block up the path."
"Can't answer questions, eh ?" added Ben,
taking up as much of the way as he could.
"burned if you can't. This isn't a lovely hour
for gals to be a promenardin'. Knock my wat-
tles, if I don't believe you're running' away.'
S4' Runnin' away or not, it's no concern of
yours ." retorted Meg, as fearlessly as if she
were sitting in Crosby's chimney-corner.
" Dunno 'bout. that yer. I've got business
with nigh on't everybody, now-adays. There
ain't a busier man in the kentry. People won-
der when I git my sleep. Whar's Phil  "
" At John Braut's by this time, or even be-
yond there," replied Meg, promptly.
I" Did he git away ?" asked Watrous, eagerly.
" He did,"replied Meg, " and in good salpe,
too.  Y6u lost your labor that time, Ben.
John Brant rode down to the house with his bov
Jack, and the little tailor, with his 'nine men,
stood ino chance at all. Out went ite peddler,

and John, and Phil, and away they went on two
thorough-breds."
" Look here, Mg I I've seen and hearm
much o' you, and I know the cut of your comb
pretty well. You're a loud grower, and right
down game ; but you're as deceptive as the
devil;!"
"I've told -you what happened," answered
Margaret, "and- you can believe what. you
please ; and it'll be all one to me. Rachel and
I are in a hurry, and don't care to be hindered
by your elegant conversation, garnished as it
is with recollections of the cock-pit. Go home,
Ben, to your naked children, and your game-
some pets; for you are fitter society for fowls
than for females. Stand side !"
"You was alleys a saucy jade I" answered
Ben, insolently. " If I had a cockerel as saucy
as you be, I wouldn't take no money for him.
You're a Tartar pullet, and no mistake ! But
you don't go on till 1 see what you've got in
your bundle."
He put out a brawny hand to take the parcel
from Margaret, who drew it away.
" Come, Ben, be civil, or you'll get what you
deserve !" she exclaimed. " We don't expect
much of you, but we do expect you to be man-
nerly to two young girls, with nobody near to
help 'em "
" Nobody . near to help ye, eh ?" replied
Watrous, significantly. " Tlar's something in
that yer, to be sure. Nice wenches, too !
Rachel was alleys a belle in these parts, and
you're a pretty little devil. Live up the bun-
dile, you bantam I"
He snatched at the bundle, but Meg pushed
him back resolutely. The fellow was growing
dangerous. Ills lawless nature was beginning
to glow with evil thoughts. Margaret could see
his cheeks flushing, she was so neir. His whisk,
ky breath touched her face as-he struggled for
the parcel.
As for Philip, he never had such a conflict
with his impetuous te per. Hle was impatient
to get hold of the ruffian, and make him feel
that a retributive arm was near. Meg, putting
one hand behind her, kept admonishing him to
silence by sundry pinches and little pushes,;
and if it had-not been for 'those constant warn-
ings, Philip would have rushed at him at once.
Meg's mute manipulations had a wonderful ef-
fect on the youth.ecr touches were magnetic,
and thrilled him curiously.
What was the meaning of this ? It was no-
body but Margaret Shore. Ile had.known her
ever since she was a child. Hhad,. never
thought much of Meg. Meg was so wild. Meg
was so unlike other -girls. And then Meg'.
mother was such a witch ! There was no need
of his feeling queer with Meg, but he (lid.
He hadn't supposed that there was anything
that wore ,petticoats that could keep bini uuder
control wlen his anger began to get the better

r R tr D PAOX.


1

42

THE ROUND PAC.    4

of him. He had always felt it an exceeding
pleasure to. vent his just resentment on an
offender ; and that was why he had once fought
for Margaret.Shore.
Benedict Watrous was yet making passes at
the vexatious. bundle, when out came Meg's
birthday present. In fact, Ben suddenly felt
the cold muzzle of a pistol pressed against his
nose.
Never was the squatter so electrified. The
touch of steel never agreed with him over well.
"Stand where you are !" said Meg, firmly.
" If you stir, I know this pistol will go off. It
is cocked, you coward !"
Ben's hands dropped to his sides with won-
derful suddennmess. He stood as motionless as a
tree. lie knew Meg's nerves were strong and
her spirit like steel. There was a glitter in
those eyes of hers that he could see in the dark.
He had heard of her skill in shooting He had
seen her and Phil Crosby practicing at a target
no bigger than a dollar. His nose'was a better
and a larger target. It might be bored througri
in an instant. One of Meg's little claws was on
the trigger. What a very slight pressure was
needed to break the cap,'ani send a hot and
withering blaze through his face! Ben couldn't
help thinking of this. The cold tube, pushed,
against gis nose, made his thoughts fly more
rapidly than they had for a twelve-motnth. His
knees thumped against each other. There was
an inward quaking with Bed Watrous. He be-
gan to plead his own case in a manner worthy
of himself:   ,0
"Don't, Meg, don't!  I's only jokin', I'll
sw'arI"
"I'm joking, too, ' answered Margaret, "but
very seriously. You insulted me. You came
at me, like a beast, as you are. And now per-
haps I shall kill you! Rachel is with'me, I
must take care of poor Hachel."
"Didn't mean nothin', gal !" protested Ben.
" Durned if I did ! I like your grit, I do ; but
jest take away the shooter, that's a dear ! Pis-
tols are careless things to handle, and mighty
ticklish 'bout goin' off. I've knowed guns to go
off by themselves when nobody was a mindin'
'em. Got a pair o' Germantowns I'll give ye
fust time I come down."
',Kill 'em, and give 'em to your hungry chil-
dren," retortedMargaret.
By this time the false Rachel had stolen be-
hiid the squatter. ' Here was an opportunity
that the thoughtless Phil would not and could
not forego. Meg could not touch him now.
Her left hand was saving something to him, but
lie would not lok at it. That mute talk was
powerless when he was out of her reach. He
unpinned his sister's shawl and let it slip frot
his shoulders to the ground. lie braced his
right foot behind him.  -lie doubled up his right-
fist, lie threw it backward  uiod brought it or-
ward with all the force that lie could throw into

it by taxing to the utmost all the muscles eon.
nected with it.
There was a thud-a distinctive sound-a
palpable hit, and the cock-fighter measured his
length upon the earth. I suppose there never
was such a blowv; or, at least, Phil was of that
opinion, and the squatter remembered it long
afterward.
While he was recovering from the shock, Phil
put on his shawl. Margaret pulled him by the
sleeve  "In an instant," said he. "I want to
see how he gets up."
Another imperative pull from Meg brought
him to a sense of the situation. He turned
quickly and followed his brave guide.
Watrous arose in three motions, each of a re-
flective character. He stared after the lessen-
ing skirts of the seeming Rachel and the real
Meg.
' Wall!" muttered Ben. " What a blow for
a gal!"
He swiveled his head slowly to and fro on his
shoulders, partly to see if it was in running or-
der, and partly to express astonishment. He
put his hand under his ear, and while arther
testing the vertebra by additional moverents,
repeated :
"What a blow for a gal! Stunner, she is!
A female airthquake, by mighty !"
He stood there wondering, until Meg and
Philip were out of sight.
CHAPTER XV.
MEG AND PHIL PURSUED
On went Meg, and on went Phil. His spirited
guide went slowly till she could no longer see
the dusky figure of Benedict Watrops, then
quickened her steps. She was afraid of pur..
suit, and scolded the young man for yielding to
his impulive disposition.
" You were always a hasty boy," said Brown
Meg, " and over-fond of taking up the quarrels
of other people. I remember your freaks very
well. If a litle lad were assaulted by a big one,
you were sure to get into a contest with the big
one. You made yourself ridiculous, once, by a
pitched battle with a great lout who called me a
witch." '
'I should think you'd ought to thank me for
that," answered Phil.
-' Probably ; but then, you know, young
women forget boys so soon.'
Meg said this in a lofty manner.
It really seemed to Phil that there was con-
descension in her tones. He was piqued, and
thought of her words some time. Boys and
young women ! She was the young woman and
lie the boy, obviously. A very young woman
she was! He looked at her aspshe gli4ed along
the path before him. She was small, but well-
developed. Her figure was certainly excellent
-a convictiou that had never occurred to hin
before.

y
e
t
I
-a
-f
-n

d2

" The boy'll be careful how he fights for dexterity. 'But skirts, on the whole, are miser-
young women again," he said, by-and-by.     able things to hamper one's movements, with-
" I have forgotten what I said," returned al."
Brown Meg, carelessly. . " This path," she add- " Mine," quoth Meg, " are short ; and for run-
ad, " goes up among the oaks. On one side is a ning in the woods, I have a still better outfit.
swamp, on the other a bayou. Which do you I intend to put on pants, Master Phil, as soon
prefer, swamp or bayou ?"                   as I can do so without being mobbed in the
'-Neither, with your kind leave !" replied streets.
Phil, tartly. ..Now that he had got the idea into his mrnd,
" Then the oaks remain for your choice ; and her voice pleased him more than Rachel's. It
far beyond, through much wilderness, lies the had a rounded fullness and a marvelous adapta-
Mississippi."                               bility to all kinds of expression.. She must have
"Trouble not yourself about to-morrow. learned speech of the birds in the woods, of
What I most want is, a present hiding-place. I the babbling streams, of the murmuring winds,
rear I have given you too much fatigue already ; of Nature herself.
and perhaps you had better leave me to sliift for " Where are you taking me, Cousin Meg ?"
myself."                                    he' demanded, changing his bundle from one
" Tired of my company sopsoon ?",said Meg. hand to the other. "Stepping on these con-
"Certainly not ! But I an modest about founded skirt and getting entangled in the
asking too much of your ladyship."          steel meshes is no joke."
-' Ah," thought Meg, " the 'boy' sticks in his  "All in good time, Master Phil ! People,
memory !"                                   when they have a competent guide, should not
" My ladyship," quoth she "is apt to stoop ; know where they are going, so that their sur-
hence, I am called 'hoyden', 'wildfire?, and rise may be the greater when they get there,
o her sweet names. But to r. turn to realities As for weariness, I'm ashamed of you; for I go
and to sober matters of fact, it is my opinion up this hill as naturally as birds fly."
that that blow has let the cat out of the bag.  " That comes of-"  The deserter stopped
It is not to be supposed that pretty Rachel suddenly.
Crosby could give such a stunning hit as that  " Don't spoil the truth, Phil, for civility's
which you administered to Ben Watrous. The sake. That comes of romping, you were going
truth may not occur to him, at first. but it will to say. Ht rk in your ear, Phil M I'd as lief be
work itself through his knobby head in the a tomboy, as a dreadfully demure puss, working
course of half en hour."                    deformed dogs on slippers. Perhaps you'd bet-
This quite restored Phil's goodhumor, and he ter take my arm, Phil."
gloated over the remembrance of the blow.     She looked over her shoulder naively. The
Restored to good nature, he was more charita- young fellow would not much have objected to
ble. Noticing that Mlargaret was still carrying taking her arm, notwithstanding her mother was
the bundle, he was ashamed, and said, hastily : such a witch ; but the idea of accepting it as a
"Well-meaning Margaret, drop that parcel! support, aroused his pride, and he mended his
If you could see my face, you would observe pace.
that it is as red as tire with blushing."     "I ought to thank you. Margaret. for your
"I wish I had a lantern, for blushing must be 'bravery, and I will. I am  very glad that I
a new business to you !" she retorted, piqued in made such a lucky choice of a birthda gift. I
turn.                                       never had much faith in the grit of gir s. I had
She set the bundle in the path, adding :  no other thought than that danger would daunt
"I forgot myself, or I should have brown it you, and that you would forget that you had a
away long ago. The necessity for m  carrying weapon about you. The more I think of it, the
it is past" ." .                -  .        more I am surprised. I remember that I some-
At this point in their journey, i'hilip made times made you cry when we trudged to school
another discovery : Meg had a very clear, me- together. I hope you wi bear no malice, Ma--
lodious voice. Its distinctness was worthy of toetr
remark ; while her enunciation was peculiarly  h gaili  made these statements with' evident
and pleasantly intoned. Strange that he had .i   .-iy
not observed this before!                     "Nomtymuch," answered Margaret. "I am
The heart is such a fantastic thing, that said to be a very ugly girl, and I suppose I am;
Philip waited with some impatience for her to but I suspect that there are others more spiteful
speak again."                               in disposition. It's an uncomfortable place to
"This," said lie, after he had taken the bun- live in, Bayou Bottom is. The people' are ig-
dlIe, and referring to his garb, "is an awkward norant and full of vulgar prejudices. The white
harness to walk in. I wonder that you trip society isn't of the best, Phil. Ann Shore
along so gracefully, Meg, with all those expan- wouldn't be a witch among educated people.
sive things around you. You whip 'em this No marvel that I am       eccentric and wild.
way and you whip 'ei that way with magical They've worried me into it.. I ve been hiarried

U

THE IOUND PACK.

Y
f ,
; !


-44

THE ROUND PAX.

ever since I was-a-child, and my temper should I quicken. Margardt -loft the path ;' she struck
,be spgjled by this time. You weren't so bad as off toward -the swamp, leaving, in her haste,
the rest. Phil; had you been, I should not be shreds of.her dress ofl' the bushe. She did not
trauiping, with you to-night-a thing which- will runi--she glided. 'Philip had hard worklto keep
be thrown at me to-morrow."                 up withiher. He wondered what gave her such
-;' ore like a skittish colt,'Meg ; it is hard speed and ease of movement. She was think-
uting tlie bridle in. your ,mouth. I mean no ing of him ; and that- was one thing that helped
disparagement by the comparison  Come: to -her on.           -    -e-
think of it, can't think of anything you ever  Down they fled to the margin of the swamp.
did shats so very bad., .Yqu are restive and The hound- leased baying then it reached the
heady; -but that isn't right down viciouuess."  place where they had left the path, but was at
Philip said this thoughtfully, rather - Marga- fault but a moment only. It came shrieking
ret tossed her head scornfully, Colt and .bridle, after them.
indeed! Let him try-to bridle her, and see what  "Here," said Meg, "is the place where- T was -
he'd get! She expected something--better of going to hide you. = Come into the thicket."
Philip than -such a comparison as that. She  Folding her dress -before her,. and stooping,
was willing to be misunderstood by the villagers, she entered a thick jungle of young trees.- Phil -
but not by him. After reflecting upon-it a little ip kept miear her. She stopped anon. The hill,
while, she concluded he might have done worse. ending abruptly, jutted over them. Under the
" Phil Crosby," she said,.presently, "you are jut, at the point where she stood, - was a small
a deserter, and your life.is in danger, You had .opening among the-evergreens and shrubs. She
better , stop and listen. .Perha . you'll hear pointed to it.
somebody corning."                            "You can go in there," she said.'
Her tone had changed ; it was serious.  "And what will von do ?"
Philip put his bundle on the   ground, and  "I'll go to meet'the inen," she answered.
both maintained silence. The-sensitive ears of  "You shall not! You would but meet the
Margaret by and' by -detected :q sound. Philip  hound and be torn in pieces. Not a step shall
debtared that he could hear nothing ; but a lit- you stir 'from me. Go you into this hiding-
tie patient-waiting eonvineed him that his-com- place, and I will stand guard at the entrance."
panion was right.   .                         "Not .I !"-answem-ed Meg, folding her aims.
"What do you think it means ?" he asked,   They gazed into each ,others pale faces a few
looking anxiously at Margaret, -seconds. The hound was startlingly near. In
' Pursuit," she replied. '-,      .       its haste, it had been thrown off the scent, and
" And oi horseback,. too I"  added Phil. they heard it running around the jungle.,
"What-shallwe do now ?".                     " Dear Meg, go in !"
"h urry I" answered Margaret,- moving - on  Her face flushed.
again.  -y                          ;'        u-I'll compromise  I'll go in with you, Phil."
"I am with you,, Meg, Don't go so fastasto  "Agreed I"      -
tire yourself tgo -much. I should : think - we  "Come !"
night elude them, if they are really after uq.  Meg shore parted the evergreens and disap-
Hadn't=I better throw away the bundle ?"  -  pared.
"By. no means! . You'll want it. Hark!      hilip Crosby'imithted her movements, and
what sound was that?"   .-     .    - ..    fund himself in a place of darkness, and heard
Philip's heart beat faster; it was, the.baying, somebody  breathing hard, and -somebody's
of a hound., lie said nothing. He did not wish heart beating beside him.
to tell Margaret. ,- She;turned and looked at   '
him. . She knew very well what it was -               'CHAPTER XVI.
" This is .something that I hadn't reckoned;  PHIL TAKES. THE POISON OUT OF MEG.
into.the account,'' she said, in, a faltering voice.  The hound was now in the thicket. - Thetrail
f" Never mind, let vs push on."      -'was so'fresh that it bayed furiously
They were now at the top of a hill. The path  "Give me the pistol, Meg," said Philip. He
was very narrow, and thestrees were thick and put out his harid mad, groping. it touched hers.
large. It was about two o'clock, and they could Takhig the pistol, hd hed her fingers a moment.
see but alittle-way before them.' The ,prospect She did not tremble, she did not shiver; -but
was gloomy.. They felt that .Ben Watrous was the three bbings of her :heart were 'et audible.
the author of this.new dangers The conviction. .' Be -quiet!" added Philip. '-I will kill the
came upon them, at-ence, aid with all theforce hound."                        -   ,
and ffect of truth.                .'-I . .   "it belongs to Benediet Watrots, and is very
- Meg flitted on through (the -narrow avenue of savage," she answered, in a subdued voice.
trees like a spirit. , Her feet were-her -wings;  "Go back farther into' the cave. There is
r fear item' incentive. .  ,. no need that you should 'be 4xp6sed." said Phil-
TheI boofs followed fast; but it was not the ip, anxibtsly.
boofs butt The ound that made Phil's pulses: . "I will stay with you, Phil!" replied Mar-

TU1 ROUND PACK.                 4b

garet, with firmness, trying to control her pant
lug 'respiration.
The hound was near the evergrees, making a
great rustling amon  the bushes.
"I beg of you,Meg, to go back a. littleI"
wrged the young man. "-1 want all the space.
Why should you be-torn and lacerated by this
fierce brute?",
"I will mind !you,Phil, but do not be rash.
As you love life and your mother, do- not, it
the creature fasten upon you."
Just then the hound sent its terrible voice
into the cavern. Philip sprang to the mouth of
the little cave, muttering:-
" The beast ought to know a white man from
a negro !"
The hound stood. nearly over him, making a
frightful noise. Grasping some of the shaub-
-bery Philip bent it down so as to obstruct the
entrance of the fleet-footed animal.  Its hot
breath fumed down upon, his face.
"I'm .dreadfully afraid, Phil 1" whispered
Margaret, again close behind him.    "
"Don't be terrified !" answered Philip, in a
low tone.  " Why will you- keep, near - me ?
Back, Meg, back !"
"It's not for myself, Phil, that rm afraid ;.-it
is for you. You fought for meonce, Phil. I
never shall forget it, never ! 'I don't care What
happens to me, but yon. must not be hurt nor
taken. I should die, Phil, if they were to shoot
you !"
Philip knew she was crying. Her voice was
very soft and submissive, and he heard little
sobs.
The hound made a dash at the aperture, but
,was repulsed by the shrubbery, which increased
its fury, and it began to rend the little trees
with its teeth.-
"Dear-Margaret !" answered -Philip; thrilled
by her words. " I'l remember you, -after this,
as long as I live. You are a faithful girl, and I
have been a selfish fool not, to know it. You
have humbled:-me, Meg. 'I ought to get down
on' my knees and ask you to foreive'me."
" No, no,'Phil! That would be a bad place'
for you. You know I am not well born, and
'am a great deal:talked about."'
"You never shall be.talked about again,.if I!
get out of this serape !" responded 'Phil with al
heartiness that made Meg's heart jump-for joy.
The young .man bad now all.that he could
attend to. The hound gathered, to launch its,
long, slim body down-upon him. He fired as it
was in the act of. springing. Immediately he'
was stricken down by its body. He heard-a cry'
from Margaret, andfur-ions as 'the beast itself,.
threw himself forward, and grappled: with it.,
He could see nothing but its eyes gleaming in
the dark. He seized it:by the seek'; -he-tore it
from Margarethe-,bore it to-the ground;- he
compressed his fingern;,heatk'angled it. iLving
it as soo as:it. waZs! o1iQn1s5, be feltiopt Mag4

She was lying insepsible. He caught her-in,his
arms and carried her out of the cave. It was
light without, contrasted with the darkness he
had just left..
Her face was very pale,,and her pretty lips
mute. Some blood trickled from hker Grip.
Full of fear' he tore off the -sleeve and seqrehed
for the wound. Not finding it.readilyhe bore
her out of the thicket nto the now unhbscured
moonlight.
He. found' the imprint of the bound's-teeth on
the rounded arm. The ,sight, shoekel hi  im-
measurably.   lie knew  how. malignantt was
sometimes the bite of dogs., He hebl the lifeless
member in ,his hand, quite dismayed. Sud-
denly he remembered, a_ remedy that ,iad been
practiced with success. BHe, applied his lips, to
the wound, and sucked the virus fronm M rgaret's
blood.'                             - 1
She revived while he was thus employed .AEs
soon as she became-conscious of his purpow,
she .snatched away her arm  i   the greatest
alarm.                                  -
" Are you mad, Phil=?  Whatgood   to draw
the poison from my system to you1182".
"The poisons' answered Phihp, " if poison
there be, will itot harm we by being wr ia'rawn
from you ; while.it may kill, yoUi, ,o remain in
your blood. It is nothing dear WX=rgaret it is
-nothing.. Had it been the. bite of a rattlesnake,
I would have don, the smae, Yqu wetreay
to die for me a little whiic-ago  now I am redaly
to die for you."
Margaret Shore smiled and fainted. -Lknow
not whether she fainted with-happiness or paid,
or: both. Philip bandaged.thei httle round arni
while she was recovering. It was extraordinary
that -he had not before discovered that it was a
handsome arm, and; that the hand and the :wrist
were small enough for .any lady, in the lande.
" I didn't know," be muttered, "-that Meg
was sucb-a Meg as she.is!  '  -    ,-
" Don't bother,. Phil !" said Margaret,, open-
ing -her, eyes. '  It ,isn't worth- while to take
much pains with m6. I'm dreadfulaurry that
you- puttryour lips to. the, bite."
Phil thought he shouldlike to put his lips to
Margaret's-.int gratitude for- -her bravery; but
possibly' he would have found a. poisonthere
more .dangerous - than- that. of the wound. . In-
deed, he had already imbibed a virus fromU -that
arm that would last him a long tithe.
Margaretanow' est up; andasked about :the
bound. At, -that moment, voices were,.heard
shouting to the dog. Both recognizelLhose
voices:      -t        -  :_
- Ben WatrousaendJonas Thorn," said Phiilip.
"'The villains! They shall hhv~ theinpay-dor
-this. : They-have£ dismounted. -Tlme, are cons
ing' this, way: 1;shpuld -like to geti sabot at
=them, Now;,Maigrethw rueat:get-awy froem
Jere. . Sit still while I go and1ge otieebbaud4e.

jib
I A
i
I
I


46                               THE RoUND      PACK.
I will change my clothes. I'm tired of being a  The searchersmoved on  They entere'll the
hag."                                       thicket cautiously, and cine straight toward
Meg remained quiet while Phil went Lack to them.
the cave. Fumbling about, he found the buni-  Phil drew Meg under some evergr-ens andF
die, 'but could not find the dead hound. It had softly cocked his pistol ;a.but in spite of his care
revived and slunk away.                     there was a little click o' the lock.
Philip made a hurried change of garments,   Ben Watrous, ever a coward, heard it and
and returned to Margaret. She was awaiting stopped. He caught Thorn by the skirt of his
him with impatience. Their pursuers had been coat and held him. They were so near that the
very near her. They could hear them talking. fugitives distinctly heard Ben whisper :
They went softly among the trees and stood   "Hark I I thought I earn somebody cock a
still. They heard Watrous say :             gun."
" What's become o that yer pup ?"  To which  Pursuers and pursued now stood very still.
the other answered :                        Phil had slipped his left arm  around Meg to-
" Hit - her when he fired, per'aps ; if a he 'keep her steady,- and his heart was beating
'twas, and it must a been, to give ye sich a side- against something warm. He did not find it
winder as you, tell of. The sound of the pistol uncomfortable holding her there. Her hair,
come from  hereabouts. Sens. as if I could soft as silk, touched liigcheek. He forgot the
smell powder."      .                ".    ! peril. He thrilled from  head to foot. The
" Dunno," said Watrous, dubiously. " Don't . close contact gave him new ideas of Margaret
ike the smell o' powder, noways. As for that's Shore. His heart no longer beat evenly; she
beim' Rache.l Crosby, durned if I think so I No feit it halting and hastening alternately. That
gal that ever wore petticoats could strike me in was a phenomenon for Phil, for he bad never
that thar way. i'll bet a dollar 'twas Phil been greatly affected with reverence for Ann
Crosby himself!"                            Shore's daughter. He was a novice in girls.
" The peddler, more like," replied Thorn. He bad never supposed them of much account
" It can't be him, for he'd make sich a strap- in. the world ; but he had always entertained a
pin' woman that everybody'd know him. Think good opinion of himself. The time was evi-
o' puttin' a critter six feet high into a gown! dently approaching when his opinions were to
and Rachel Crosby's gown, too ; for it was undergo some modifications.
Rachel's, I'll sw'ar. Them two gals wouldn't  He kept tightening his arm upon Meg, who
been gallivantin' in that thar fashion. if some- was afraid to stir. He leveled his pistol in the
thin' wasn't uc. Meg Shore don't carry bup- direction of Ben Watrous ; but his nerves were
dies for nothiri. We'd ought to brought two not in good order for nice shooting. Hig anxiety
or three stout fellers with us, Thorn."     for Margaret increased every moment  it came
" What, to handle Meg Shore !" retorted to him suddenly that they might catch a glimpse
Thorn.                                      of her person, and be brutal enough to fire.
"Let her poke a pistol ag'in your nose, and The thought gave him an uneasiness that be
see how ye like it !I" grumbled Ben. '-If you  would have supposed impossible but yesterday.
want to be shot, you kin and welconie; but I've He would have laughed at the seer who foretold
no stomach fort. If that pup's dead, I shall his present emotions. He did not think of his
take on mighty bad. We'd ought to kept near- own safety, and utterly forgot that he was a de-
er. - Let's git into this here jungle, and it you've serter from the Tenth Tennessee.
got a sharp nose for the smell o' gunpowder,  On went Thorn, and on went Watrous.
jest go ahead."                               " Here they are !" cried Jonas Thorn, and in-
" You're afraid I' sneered Jonas Thorn. "But stantly discharged his gu ; which was a duck-
no more ain't I. Come on, and keep your ing-gun of large calibre. The shot went rattling
fowlin'-piece from goin' off- into my back. and whizzing through the foilage, cutting off
Don't carry the plaguy thing cocked. Il pep- twigs, and making the leaves fly.
per 'em if I see 'ern, I'll warrant. I keer noth-  ' Where ? where ?" exclaimed Ben Watrous,
n' for gals, when one's a witch and tether'ss a eagerly, and his fowling-piece went off between
man."                                       Thorn's feet, casting dirt all over him, and
Phil Crosby pressed Meg's band ; he found carrying away a piece of his boot.
it, somehow, in the dark. It is astonishing how  "The devil's in you I" muttered' Thorn.
a young fellow will find a girl's hand in the "You're no more fit to hey a gun nor a durned
dark.                                       nigger !"
'Meg had been called a witch before, but she  Jonas had 'fired at a broad penduluni of moss
did not like. to be called so just then.. The that hung, swaying, from the limb, of a tree.
pressure of Phil's fingers reasared her. She By the merest chance, a single shot took effect ;
gently disengaged her hand, forshe did not wish diverging widely from the line of the barrel, it
to make herself too cheap with the young man. struck Phil's arm-the same arm that was hold-
There was a pride in the girl that even danger ing Meg.: It was but a bird shot, but it made
would not coquer.                     .    bim wince. He was glad that it hit him. She

THE ROUND PACK.                 47

looked up into his face to see if he were hurt ;
and seeing him calm, thought he P was not.
Thinking they were discovered, he fired into
thicket where they had heard the voices, and
then glided away with Meg, with as little noise
as possible. Benedict Watrous was re-loading
his fowling-piece when Phil's bullet came along,
struck abox of caps from his hand, took off the-
tip of his little finger, and made a deep indenta-
tion in the barrel. That gun was dearer to'Ben
than wife or children. -It was a Damascus twist,
and cost him all the money he could collect in
a twelvemonth. The loss of a finger-nail was
little compared to this other injury. He, fell
into a terrible rage. He swore to have ven-
geance for it immediately. It aroused all the
spirit he had, and as nothing else could have
done. Had Phil broken the cock-fighter's arm,
he would have'stirred his animosity less.
Having finished loading, he ran about like a
madman, shouting and threatening.
His comrade was equally active. He called
upon the fugitives to. come out and deliver
themselves up, on pain of being instantly shot.
He vowed that the woods were surrounded with
men, and that it was useless to try to escape.
He addressed the unseen Philip both as the'
peddler and the deserter, so as to be sure and
get the right man.   Between the two, the
woods resounded with menaces and imprecations.
Around the base of the hill crept Phil.aid
Meg, giving little heed to these clamors. Com-
ing unexpectedly upon the horses, which Jonas
and Ben had hitched to a young hickory, Philip
took off, their saddles and bridles, and giving
them some smart cuts, sent them clattering up
the hill. This was a trick that the men had not
counted on, and it put them -into the vilest
temper imaginable. Off they scampered to
catch the runaways,. thinking that Meg and
Phil rode on their backs ; but coming in sight
of the animals, after a sharp run, they, diseQv-
ered their mistake.
What now ? Should they abandon the quad-
rupeds and follow the bipeds ? They looked at
each other, and after some discussion, and some
inverted prayers, turned back to find the trail.
CHAPTER XVII.
RACHEL PROvES A BAD BOY.
Away sped John Brant on the legs of his
high horse, with Rachel behind him, and the
great fallacy in his mind "that he had Philip.
Spitfire stretched on beautifully.  The swift
motion was exhilarating to the planter. His
long, dark hair streamed on the wind made by
his'own velocity. With his face upturned, h3
breathed in the fast-coming air,, and his blood
flowed with excitement.'
"Phil," said John Brant, by and by, "are
you there ?"
" Yes," answered the counterfeit deserter,
fintly, for she felt herself awkwardly placed.

I  " Clasp me tighter, boy," added John. "You
take hold as gingerly as a girl."
Rachel grasped him more closely ; but the
difference was so trifling that it did not satisfy
the bold rider.
"PhilI" he exclaimed, " you used to be an
active and dashing lad, but now you sit behind
me like a bird on one's finger. You are either
growing effeminate, or you're frightened out of
your wits You'll be off, first thing I know I"
John reached behind him and tucked up the
false Philip.
"People usually grow hard by soldiering,
but you have grown soft, my lad," continued
Brant.
A glimpse at Rachel's face would have been
worth something ; but there was nobody there
to see it. Brant tried to make his young friend
talk, but could elicit not a word save monosyl-
lables. The tucking up 'and the warning to
hold tighter, were often repeated on the way.
They weie soon at Paw-Paw. Rachel slipped
off the instant Spitfire, stopped. Some sleepy
blacks cane, yawning, to take his horse.
" Groom him well, you rascals !" said John
"Rub every hair of him-dry. Don't leave hint
till he's as clean as a lady's hand  Take at
him, four of you, and don't let him get a chill.
He may. he wanted presently." Then turning
to go in, he added : " I wonder where the ped-
dler is?  Well, he's- welcome to Clipper. I
feel better for having settled that Black Swamp
affair. Jack will have to foot it home, and he
hates to walk abominably. Come, Phil I . We'll
go in and take some refreshments, but it won't
be safe for you to stay here long, I'm afraid.
The little tailor will be after yo i with his
posse ; but I shan't give you up. My house is
my castle, any day"; and I haven't forgotten
the cotton-buring. Let 'em toneh another
fibre of my cotton ! Let 'em so much as look at
it with incendiary eyes, and see what they'll
get?"
Into his wife's chamber strode John Brant,
Rachel walking behind him like Puss in Boots.
He stopped near the middle of the room. On
a lounge lay the partner of his life, in a tran-
quil sleep. His thudding boots lid not awake
her. He stood still and looked at her. She
was quiet enough, but her face was unusually
pale, and there was a white circle around her
mouth.
John went nearer.
"Poor Celia !" he murmured. "Something
has occurred to harry her. She never has that
spiritual expression but after a great shock.
What can have happened ?". He took her
hand 1 it was quite cold, and lay, heavily in his,
as if the nerves had lost their spring. He
spoke to her; he raised her, he shook her, and
she awoke slowly. Seeing. John, however, she
smiled, and her blood began to warm again.f,
'  Celia," said the planter, anxiously, ,' you

t,
t
J  t
1 4(
JV

t,
AI


48

TIIE ROUND PACK.

look strangely. Some one has put you into a f
panic. Tell me about it.".
All this tine Rachel stood by herself.e There.
was a bright light in the room, and'her face and:
pe son were well illuninated. Celia's eyes bad 1
caught her. Her feminine face, her full bust,
her swelling lips; revealed her sex 'in an in-,
stant.t
"Whom have you brought here ?" asked Ce-
l'ia,'faintly.                             t
"The young rogue, Phil,"-answered John, t
frankly. Theni noticing Celia's expression, he j
turned, wonderingly, toward the suppositious
puth. One look 'satisfied him that there had 
been a mistake.~ .le wasa surprised, aind cons.7
fused: He stared at the counterfeit with open
month.
"Rachel Crosby !" exclaimed Celia  " What
deception is this, John ?'
Rachel crimsoned.. The situation was'getting
awkward.
"Confound' me if;I know !" protested John.,
growing red in the firce."-
" 0 John, bow can you deceive me so!"! cried.4
Celia.
"My dear girl, I'swear-" began Jehn.
" Don't sweur, husband ! ' Swearing don't
make truth' any truer. You bright this young
lady with you, John, in disguise '?
" So it seems," answered Brant. " Certainly
that is the person who rode behind- me from
Crosby's. Don't be foolish, Celia. You know
you can be foolish as easy as any woman in the
world."
"Ann Shore has been here, John."
She said' these words' in a voice of solemn
resignation.
" The old harridan ! I got the cream of her
venom, I guess ; and she has been setting the
milk df her- wrath' these -six' 'months; to rise.-
She lacerated you, didn't she?"
Indeed she did, John! There 'is no more
peace for me."'
" Nonsense! You shall be the most peaceful
vonian in existence. 'I swear' you shall do noth-
ing bd' be happy!"
Celia began to cry.':    "
" I have had erioigh without Rauhel, John."
"By Jul iter Celia, I'didn'b know I had her.!
I  noticed' that Phil took hold of me - as if he
wer'e handling hot chestnuts; and' that 'he-felt
wadded'; but'as true asI live-"
"John !" interrupted Celia, warningly.
" As true as I live," he went ol, " wetook her
out of the peddler's pack'!"'
uJohn,",answered Celia rising with dignity,
"you have been drifil"id."
" Not a drep l" asset-ted Brant.
Bf this 'tirmpRacliel Was  ailing.  A saint
would have 'imiled Al e foolishness. of the
man's face.
"What 'has a peddler's paclk to do with Ra-'
ohel Crosby? John,'you cannot tell a good

falsehood. But I will not trouble you loi
with my presence. I have long been in your
way."° Mrs. Brant turned her back on Rachel,
and anger was getting the better of her am1a-
bility
. "Be patient a 'monk-ent, Mrs. .Brant," inter-
posed Rachel. - " You'r brave husband speaks
he truth. I was indeed .substituted for my
brother Philip,in the round pack of the' peddler
Gles   Mr. Brant was there when I came out of
the pack-; but' he was not present when J was
putin. I personated Phil ; or, at least, attempt-
ed to; but I did take the character. very badly,
I confess."
Qelia listened and shook her head.
John was going to explain, but she stopped
him and said :.
"'Go on, girl. I do not in the least understand
about the pack. It seems-a trumped-up story."
It isn't a -thumped-up story, though!" re-
torted Raehel  with spirit.. "'My brother Philip
was brought home-in a pack."
" Who, carried the pack ?" asked Celia,. in-
credulously. "It-must have been. a burden for
a horse !"
'f Oh, a stout man brought it !" said Rachel,
piqued at'Mrs. Brantts unbelief, and the uneom-
plimentary view she was -taking of the. case.
She was beginning to think that her jealousy
was as insulting as it was unreasonable.
" Is that a eommorf method of desertion from
the Confederate Army ?" asked Celia, with se-
verity of tone and glance.
"The peddler did- hot carry my brother all
the way, but only through the Confederate.lines
and Bayou bottom. But the artifice, cunning
as it was, was suspected by that prying. Ben
Watrous, who visited our house at an unseason-
able hour and saw -the. pack on the floor while
Philip was in it. Whether he was struck by its
size, or whether my, brother moved, I do not
know ; but away he went, and by-and-by came
a squad of soldiers from Phil's regiment, the
Tenth, Tennessee, but not till Margaret Shore
had p t -him into my gown; and me into this
uniform, and into the pack. Philip, personating
myself, was unmolested;- but the round pack
was made to.give up its secret. . Your 'hun'band
gallantly caught me uap went out at the window,
set me on his.horse, and I am here. It was a
dashing and- generous feat. I hope, my dear
Mhdam, that you are, now satisfied."
Every shadow of doubt was lifted from Mrs.
Bran 's face. She .gave Rachel. hmeit hand,,and
gaid:
Forgiverne, Miss Crosby ! Ihave had' mueh
to disturb, ne to-night. You, doubtless, w.ihto
get out-of these garments. . Come with me, and
I will be your tirewoman, for:I dare say.you do
not wish my maid to see you in this character."
" Well, Celia, I stand acqnited  dou't-I ?'
"Yes, John," she said, and sighed.
" Don't sigh at me,; my dear," muttered

A

T UFO RIO.ITND PA~

4

Brant, "apd forget.Ann Shore, as-oon se possir     believe e in you. I-.bave:beer iuforne'd that the
ble. Who can harm you   What can come ui e-devil stand ypur godfather."  't
t ween u ? "              ,            '     While he, was speaking, he led his horse along
hist then I efiel passed between tern, and by the bridle.
C-ia shivered,,aud ttu4ught tf t he prgphgeies  ..nn,Shore turned on him' wrathfuly
of AluShore.   "  '         ' .         ' -   "To eatorto drink, nothing. have I fbt Diek
By a coincidence, Bran(,r reigbere4 Ann's Shre I. Timae.wasIwhen:L would have "beedi
insidious allusion to fie'pedd er.  t was a for you ; bit you weren't then a Federal sp .a
memory t hat'stole n uPon hiinlike "'serpent; Mounp your.borrowed horse and away! Ey-
but with a great heart he' rsoled to bruise its. pect no favor.of Ann Shore!"
head.                                         "Sour and crabbed creature" retorted the
-. ,.peddler... '" Naught have you to lose or gain b
CHAPTR     XVIII.              this struggi.. Onte foot is in the- rave, and.
STANDING ONQTgING.             for aught I sknot. one hand is in hell11Wher.
Away walked Ann Sliore, full of wrath. She. ear your treasures are, there will iyou'g soon.
went back tie roal she.carme. She heard John Noun ug  is u outt importance-to you as thisj
Brant returning, and, stepped aside to let him. twar'Itr. ihll not affect you in person or prop-
pass. He rode on' without"seeing her. Wil,' efny;: andFI Ihoudu t Wonder if, before i closer
near her own dwelling, another horse;nan-uap- a"riuarch over youashes."
proached{ It proved to he' the lpedle r; but  ' Mount and begone,, or you-will ru - itl No'
this time she did 'not turi fdrm the, patio  .water have'I. for you" mouth, no be ediica
Giles stopped hiahorse to keep L om trarp- for yonr body"
ing-lner;don.    ,:_t ,  ef, ou trmp-frryou.boy.
ling her down.                                  Yet," .answered Giles, coolly, "for, my sle
"I s that you, annhe'aed, with soise am I our nephew.',~"        i
surprise.   lf         hTheye-iwerewnow.oolose to her cabin.'She
,"What is left  f me  before you," shie a   shook ,her:wrinkled i hand :at ,him, and passing
swered, with sternness-..,                 in, closed the door. She opened it immediately
"Wynot at home at tiis hour' of'- the. and cried out:-.-
night ?" he continued. "nA  old woman should  "Cgme in, Dick, if you would save lifeVI"
not be wandering after .miighit."  . ..   " Call me that.,name 'again, and"l'l' save xe
." Who made me an 'old woan " r             livesat-your bidding," answered' Giles;-in ale'
Shoe  i       voice, looping 'his bridleo: a, horse-shoe naih d
wo p" dered eisu     w           all old to one corner of the cabin. This done,.he went
women"mutteredileni                               rey. A singular spectacle met his
"And who makes traitors ?" she fiercely de- 4nn hiad stirred the stands on the hearth, aid
manded.
"e       hnCnd         -             a   a red flame was shooting upward by the-,light
The Southern ConfedericyJeffDavis,,and of which he saw a ma ysus ended from a.rafter,"
others."                                    struggling in' the'pais:Ofsuffocatiori' Aeh'ai
"It is false !" croalked Apn. '"You' yourself tipped over, was lying-beneatli:his feet, just omit
are the traitor. Yon have' been down at Cros- of the reach of 'his toes.' By.an udiluokv move-l
by's, aiding and abetting'"he escape of a desert- ment, Aaron Furness 'had tilted.-over the frail
er. John Brant had bin on his high horse, foundation 'on which, his safety depended, dad
galloping home."   ',he was standing ,upon'.,noting. Now; nothing
" So you met them ?   Did you observe any- is an exceedinglyvile. thing to stand nt, -al
thing peculiar about the boy ?"       , .   Aaron was purple in the face. le was twisting
"No," answered Ann; eyeing him qliarply. .. and writhing/terribly. His contortions shoekid
Giles smiled.- '                  .       even Giles, who, was' byb'no means girl-hearted.
" Some 'kind o"'pfottip' and seemingg" mut-  "Take -hiin downt" 'screamed Ann". Shore,
tered Ann, "but it will come to naught. What- seizing the, peddler.by:the arm, to quicken him.
ever you do will come. to naught."            lie instantlypilaced tl elair! i  '
You have become 'vile 'in your polities" pedupo  ied was abut       lift uteod
said Giles,- dismounting, "as in your reputa- of Aaron. Fur'ness; butosuddenly' discovering
tiolL ' w hom uit was, stepped down again from the chair.
"Why do yo get off lRichard Shore ?"'asked  "Why do you hesitate ?' shrieked Aui'Shore,
the dismal old woman  ' ' ' ' -             shaking with anger. "Will you let'him stran*, I
"I am going to walk with you to your dwell- gle before your eyes?",  - w     arn.,
ing for a draught of water' amd a drop of whis-  'WIf .wg aUiejtwmnyowul
ky. But call me nbt' Richard Shore. It is                       onlethip;4haig,#nd ju puponhis..houldlrsuto
name that I dropped' long ago. No good has boot,"' rqpliedjGiles, with sudden sternness.. or
some of that name. You have not honored it.   "'Ay,   y  tat I would I" she mmd
You have not' honored' i, Gody,iap these parts. Then,'as before': 'ave himor'Il.repay it
I am sorry to find you such a witch. , Those on Meg, and do you a turn, Dick, that'll make.
who believe in your politics, it seems, do not you acquainted with Confederate tenderness."

/I


0

THE ROUND PAOk.

c"ThIt f' liuw k bas-done me more than' owe  iilet t ti'~e'jule"s bottle that gives
mischief. He has hunted 'es a if. I we *l - difleieat kidd of ioquors."
g0 damepubtfor edr:sake' my loving teladie,., He put the long, black neck to-his lips and
will give him the chances of dying by bullet' qufed del~.
or steel.  aie'v tidetath, of right belodgih to  "1 cae           Ann"oi,'grumbled Ahu, "if it turns to
icta. .E hemwwill drowa  I ana6t -a-tian poison in your entrails!"
tb  kesdvadtege-f afellowcreature'e extremxi  She bent over and muttered a few words in
ti sdiain)thoughishe be."                 Aaiton Furnels's eat, Who soon began to roar
*thitheeewbrds,-Gilea mounted briskly toethe out and 'be afflidted With sudden and severe
chair, and grasping the quivering body of Fur- pain. 'He rolled and kicked On the floor, en-
nese ifs:e his ardil lifted it upward. Ann Shore 'treating An:n Shore to-rim for a Doctor. the
ran up;stairs:ath a knife, and out the rope. made excuses ; she had walked .far the night ;
The =squater 'Was now rather exhausted, and her old limbs wore not- fit to go to the town ;
his dartailliy hung limp in the hands of the butpresently she put oh her hood and took her
paddler who leaid his burden upon the floor, and stiek from the corner.
gave himself'no farther trouble about it.    Grihakey sprang up from the hearth, where
he had been asleep, and barking, ras ready for
'i'be old woman came down in a hurry, and a start.  '
darting a fierce look at -Giles, knelt down, and  "Stay you here, peddler-man," said she, " tin
with considerable tugging, unloosed the cot- I come back. I have thought of something to
te., cord-that- was drawn; life a' tuned fiddle- tell you -about family matters, and which nearly
string, around the squatter's neck. The fellow  toucbes the happiness of that wild girl, Meg -,
gaspedo drew his'breath painfally-a little while, shall not be gone long. It's a short three-quar-
aod then sat up. He was too -faint and feeble ters of a  'mile 'to the Doctor's."
tetell hisi Aory'ihamediately, but, under Ann's  " There's your horse t" returned Giles, point-
mnistratidas' heitatable to converse in about ing to a broom behind the door.    .
fiflee mn iiiluteai :Benanied the- authorof his  -"You were always  itty " utteredd Ann.
calamity with such exaggerations as his inagin- " Many a man hat jbsA  when his grave was
at' on 'otild supplyp gliding ote, lightly, the digging; Buit What 'of  F IF you would
paoseeation' Which  sbad given.         hear what you came for ,wait mny return."
miles , listenedhWith ,ang froid. At the men-  ',I wait got  loig fi mian or woman," said
tilet of John  crant's=name; he shrugged his Giles to hiriself.
shoulders, and.seemed surprised. He made up  Out went Anu, 'and Giles heard her hurrying,
hit mind; that Furness was the aggressors and away.         -
had attempted to assastinate the planter.                     *
".You would have hanged but for oe,said             CHAPTER XIX.
Gilea'                                         Ili W iHIcl '  InIDLER iaN is A KEY.
' Not he," answered Ann. "I .should have  As soon as Ann Shore was out of hearing,
out him down, had you refused to take hold of Aaron Furdess began to be afraid. Thinking of
hi nm  le would have got but a fall, and a fall whit might happen lo hih, his pains grew pal,.
of a few feet wori'tkill a squatter."     pably less  His Withered jprotect.ress had light-
"I wish you had given him the falls" returned ed kI anadle, and the peddler- sat where it shone
('lee, indifferently. "By the way; that cord in his face. A stern-looking man was he. Pur.
sems made on purpose for hanging. " Have nes had seen hiru before, with pack on back, a
y"u more like i4 ~Ann ShorYe ?"           long distance from bayou Bottom ; but lie had
: Eight more, you renegade I And one of never seers hiil so tiods in expression. The
'em is for that bull neck of yours."       white of his eyes constantly turned at him, sin-
sI thank you, mother of the devil ":'respond- ilter and threatenig.  He grew uneasy, and
ed Giles with a threatening flash:of the eyes. wished' le was well out of the house.
" Come ! leave that hominy-eater, and attend  The peddler arose ed'approached him. The
to one who has greater claim to your attention. squatter trembled. Giles took him by the col
I heard him callyou a witch not long since'  lar.
."Let him call me what he will," answered ' "You are very;ill, my friend," he said.
An   "and beitrue to- the Cunfederacy, and I'll  # Yes," ttatutned Furness.  "I'm  mighty
forgivehint"                               bad !"  -
But Ann's looks belied' her *ards, ad the , diled jetked hnir, to his feet.
dalt ter th6upMrd' mhttribg. SBhe t  back  *ts ; fiti atdtoo bad to stiy with go'1
with a black:bottle&amp;nd a glams.' Thbblekbut? company," he anweid, dragging him to the
the contained spirlW  Ai6, t aem hatustii@ of it ddch  "Oplurd #wonit  go dm#  I an pot to
ad sait the bottle blithe tabe-.  Whilit the be tatt. bridbidlWit  nd a sneaker. Get
squatter wat'8rlinkin  the'#ddlet't oth'h  up"eai i4 IA, them'        ti get tie
kiand anid toek thei ottle u;" eot             f      l f t.ia.  ' i.e  ,'l e " time carpenter,
" Vimsti" #t 4  " atha 1t 41  eeased; 2.Ma i  1 I itri  ,60ti'ssI.k

I

TTIt

G,1

i
,
i
t

,

He swung the squatter out with a quick Tno- unilockea the'dratwer, witl:Itrried hand. i7
tion, retaining his grasp on his coll',   lifted, the false bottom .' Quite a, number of pa-
Ihere are two}paths. Ann ShBore has taken pers were ex posed t view  Taking up one
this one ; .take you'that, and mai'h  withyour after the othe, he, bf and by, came upon the
nose straight before you. Afte.you reaeh yon- ,packet he was in search of, It consisted of
der tree, something will happen. I sharl begin seyeraI documents, 'carefully tied, and placed in
-to fre it you with my revolver, and $ou'it a pax'ehtnent ei velope. Froi his bosom he
probably begin to run.'The faster you run the took another palcet resembling it, which he
farther you'll go, and le sooner you'll be out subatittited for the one he had taken.. Arran .
of sight                                 .win  i the .drawer as 'he had found it, he closely,
With these practical remarks, -he let go his locked it, and returned the key to its curious
hold of Aaron's collar and helped him with his hiding-place.h               i
foot. He got a good start ; in fact, the ped-  'N ow, Ann Shore," said he, speaking alou,
dier's foot *as a catapult and the squatter a '"iffou attempt any wickedness, I will see that
projectile.  But the squatter turned over-, as justice is done. A distem pered mind has she,
oblong projectiles are apt to do, and'struck on Poor Margaret ! She should not have been so
tis head after going about a rod.  Up rose long under this woman's influence. But I have
Furness, with threat and' oath, and away he been an exiled man. Forced to leave home and
reeled, on his weak legs.' When half way to estate by a vile mob, which clamored for my
the tree, he turned  ad entreated Giles not to blood, I have known little of what has passed
tire.                                       here, or how itdias fared with kin, near or die.
"Perhaps," answered-the latter, "you had   nt. I comaniitted no crime, yet was outlaw
better come back and get one of those cotton ed as much as if I had been guilty of homi-
ropes. I feel prophetic. One of them is foi cide."
you. I shall take one With ime, if you do ,not  Having bestowed the little parcel safely on
come. I am sure I shall fall in with you some- his person, Giles left the dwelling and proceed-
where, when the advantage of numbers will ngt ed to the covert where his horse was. Untasteu-
be on your side."                          lug Clipper, and' throwing the bridle over his
Furness stopped near the tree.           neck,' he waited awhile'to see what would come
"Go on," shouted Giles, fiercely, "or I'll fire of Ann's mission.
at'you where you stand 1 Away, I tell you ! I  Presently be saw some soldiers coming down
have reason to be in baste."-.             the path.
Terrified by his voice, the squatter went for-  "I thought as much," he muttered.  r The
ward. Reaching -the tree, feai gave wings to Philistines ie upon thee, Sampson. The tailor-
his feet. The blood began to flow in his limbs, sergeant and his posse are coniing to take me.
and he ran with a nimbleness that made Giles What a loving relative I have found !"
smile. When he was out of sight, lie led Clip-  The peddler led his horse to the farther, nu'
per into a group 'of trees, and tied him where he gin of the trees, mounted him, and rode away
could not be seen.  He then went into the softly.
cabin, and taking the light from the table, began        CHAPTER XX.
to examine the interior hastily. .CHPE                             X.
There were some antique piece of furniture,   ' PHIL BEGINS TO DREAD WATER,
among which was a chest of drawers. The      Up the hill rode Giles; the identical bill
latter looked very ancient. Giles looked at it which Meg and Phil had climbed with so much
eagerly.                              -    painstaking. Half-way up he met two horses,
'I remember, it well," he said. "It stood in wjlnrnt saddles, or bridles, or riders, galloping
my father's house many years.. There is a' down. As they gassed him,.shying, he notice
drawer in it with a false bottom ; and this is that their backs had been sweated by saddles,
the one. No, it is the next. How one forgets whieh, obviously, had been recently removed.
as he grows old ! How many times I have seen This- circumstance put him into conjectures,
any dear mother standing beside this venerable which lasted him to the summit, where a hound,
relic! Degenerate sons: and daughters! Ann with blood-shot eyes ad drooping tail, went
Shore never should have had this. To me it is past him. He ealed it, but his voice made it
sacred. My mother used to keep the key in rim faster.
this little drawer, at the top. I wonder if I shall  Seeing"a piece of cloth hanging to a bush, he
have the good luek to fin lt?"             ieadhe d   ri and took i\  It was a fragment of
The key was not there. He searched for it bfeg's dress. Thq peddler renpbe.dthe pat-
iii varqioa pieces, inevery pact of ni's sudill ter, a4 supposed t1t  it must hve )np $pru
sleeping-room. He looked into ,boxes, untdef ra''duatin soide of le quet.rawtbk,,
the pdiesuai+  iever   anebl    rder 'tha$  -Heid   tu    '4' tr  . t,.b    f   W ed
he could think of. He finally found it, aedel it in fi°dsid t                    ie'
The discovery gave him g   hrit ad  Id    *', te lI i o' e Wh aNgii beore him.

, f
,   i
I
i'
i
!i
' '
1   i

l
!,
li
"t


TIE ROUND PACK.

anl by, he came to a smalr stream, with cottonI
and ,grass on its low banks.,
le dismounted near a camp thatched with
evergreen boughs ; but so curiously nestled
among the bushes as not to attract one's atten-
tion until almost within .reach of it. Securinij
his horse to a tree, where be.could reach the
sweet grass, in went Giles, and toek possession
of this shelter. le was just falling asleep, when
lie heard two persons talking, and a moment af-
ter they entered the camp.  The twain'were
Meg and PhWikL -
le of the round pack, though much surprised,
kept still and did not reveal himself 'The girl
was panting for breath, and evidently quite
flurried Phil was doing his best to re-assure
her.
" The greatest danger is over, Cousin Meg,"
said he, " for the hound has sneaked off, with
precious little life in it, The horses must be
well on their way home by this time, while the
two rogues who rode them seem to have lost our
trail. Don't breathe so hard."
"I can't help it. Philip," answered Meg.
" I wish I could do something for you, Mar-
garet. Here's a seat; -sit down, my good girl."
Meg sank exhausted upon it seat,.which was a
rude bench, with oak leaves upon it for a cush-
ion. Plilin was beside her. lie sat down
" It is horrid dark !" said Meg.
" The darkness is good for us ; it keeps us
but of sight."
".Do you feel queerly at the stomach, Phil?"
asked Meg.-
Not a bit of it,- said Phil.
" I am afraid that dreadful white may hurt you.
You oughtn't to have meddled with it, Philip.
But 'you meant well, I am sure. You meant
well, too, when you fought the big boy."
" It wasn't anything, Meg.  What do I care
for poison in a girl's arm? I'd as lief take more
out of it as not."
"You've got poison enough, young man,"
thought Giles.
"Where ,is the arm ?" 'asked Phil, naively,
groping for it, but finding Meg's waist instead.
" Lean on me, Margaret ; you tremble so."
"It comes of hurrying;" answered Margaret.
Don't get too near, Phil; 'Im a very rude giul,
you know."
I don't know," said Phil,.thoughtfully, lean-
ing toward her. " can't remember anything
positively rude, of you.  You were always a
proud And spirited creature, though h j believe
you kept your dignity pretty well up." '
" There's some good in me, don't you think
there' islPhil ?" .
Yes, yes ;'there'is, in fact, a ,good deal l"

his face, the focus would ,have caught a smile
on hIs lips,,
, "Mind what you're about, Phil. My mother
is adreadfulwitch," said Margaret, warningly.
"I believe you're a, with," too," answered
Phil, softly                            - 2
" I am witch. e ough not to be flattered to-
day And forgotten to-morrow,",said hargaret.
" I have seen people put a flower in their but-
ton-hole one minute, and throw it a£wav the
next. , That was because the flower was power-
less, and could not help being plucked,.worin,
and east away. The girl, sometimes called Meg
Wildfire, is not a passive thing, to be used. in
that way. You'll find me neither a lily nor a
rose, but the freest of all birds, not to'be caught
by hand or net.  He that chases me with idle
purpose, loses his time ,and his breath in the
pursuit. So, my dear cousin. Phil, spare your
compliments, and remember that I was the same
yesterday that I am to-day: the daughter of a
woman very ill-spoken of, and - a 'girl of rather
bad habits, if gossips are to be believed. As I
was not quite worth your serious notice a short
time ago, I can't be much better now ; so hands-
off, my kinsman !"
Philip was never accused of too much modesty
in his life ; but with all his faith in himself, the
remarks of Meg Shore nearly overcame himn with
surprise. , Hle sat silent, wondering what to say.
She waited for himto answer.:-.          }
" Come,eousia, don't take wing when a friend
is approaching,' he replied, somewhat chop-
fallen. " I never,saw such a girl as you are !',
" Because I won't be petted now and worried
to-morrow. I've seen the dog and eat play ;
and box each other,, as prettily-as they might;
the dog was sure to chase puss into an apple.
tree the first ,time he .found her off the door-
step." ,.scratch
" Don't scratch me, Puss!" said Phil, tartly.
Margaret laughed, and answerd :  ,   1
" You have been a good enough dog tonight,
Phil.; and as for the apple-tree, I will look out
for that to-morrow. Your harryings. of the
past I don't, at all miied, for 'tis the nature of
Canisto worry Grimalkin.' -'Aren't. you sorry
you poisoned yourself'for:me, Phil ?,'
Meg saa, thiin the sweetest way that it was
possible fyr. a sour girl to-speak in.
" Almost!" said Phil,,sullenly. " I think it's
going to hurt me. I begin to feel very queer-
ly. Do you know how dog-poison sets in ?"
 " A sp m.in the throat and a dread-of wat."
replie;"1 g..                  .   . ,.
" If I had a 'quart of water,'1 said Phil, I
don't' thirr I- coui4 drink it. Il ,Iwas foblial, to
run the risk off my life forsa girl thatido't- care
a straw for-me.",,,              "
The youngdeserter was getting into the'sulks
fast,    :j 4  A       .1  A  ;  1.  : o 2
"An fer, agi-rLyo, neve oareda strawfiit, i
spa r7te  agaliiretag m1 'i   :n;2a .' i  s  a

:  iha ria#: athat is innateinIn J L
h     'about to protest 'tlat lie had always
-idore  her, although till that night he " had
never 'thought Qf loving 'her.,
h Sop, .:%pughtless }runaway I", she .inter;
posed'  'Dow t tell fasehoods when there's-no
veed, I haye 'een iF h  den in your sight ; i
have beenai rp.  in ypur 6inio; a' wild lit
tie cieatie,  iuaecont.   fygu wat to be
my fried,_ I wil; give joua''terial and watch
you. . wail pastyouon yourgoo ; behavior for
a mynh to ; e,ome;i soif the, tempation to
worrimedt be nyt stronger 'than your strength.
of resispaen, I will be quite tariw and gracious,
scld, you cor ungentlemanlj  oridut, nmateh
you at tar eti-hpoting, and wond r why bgys
are ot a s racefulat twenty as gir  ptfitee .
The ia (aculhy of raillery w spticulari.
good., She knew how to ,enphasMetrals or
and toue Igt y gn eh.t 6t o vta mndulate her
clear vqece,, and give her sitege s. forge.. She
was most dangerous to #11il when she was most,
piuant.
I feel a dread of water !" he ,protested, both
piqued and'attracted by Meg.
ie spoke so seriously that leer "heart ,gave a.
spasmodic leap'under her bodice.
"Do not say it!" she.exclaimed. "Youi will
freeze my blood with feat. Are you pale ? Go
out where I can see your face."
" I'm as pale as death !" asserted Phil.
As he could not see his own face, this was
ratherr a surprising affirmation. Margaret 4rfed
to get near enough t see his complexion. She.
was trembling by this time..'
' hook out!." said Phil, warningly. ''I feel.
as if I should bite."
" As good as a play !" eried Giles.
It may be believed, that, to young persons
sprang to their' fqet,very .quickly.' Margaret
screamed, and Phil yas thoroughly. startled.
Neither knew what So.thipk, of who had spoken.
"If you have done feeling as if yoll, want to
bite, say so,.so I can show myself without da.
ger," added the peddler, making a rustling
amongcthe boughs. ,Phil, you lout,, you sre
poisoned with 4he girl's virus, and we must
hasten to the nearest house for a. feather-bed to
smother you fith. Sorry I carried sch a dull
fellow in my pack. Miss Lawless bas,poved
too .much for yau, and stads fairly ahea4.- No
wit like a woman's wit, boy'."
Margaret aug Philip stood a mute as possi-
ble.
The peddler.pushea his way utofthe camp,
and presently'the fugitives steod beside'him-in
the gray .gd.bretng light of ring.
CHAPTER XXI,
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE PURSUERS..
4' Come out where I can see you," said Giles.
"I want to look at two, persons in a situation."
Neither Meg nor Phil moved.

So  you ;hdead" mater do kyou, 'y'ouing'  el-
9"w ' added the 'edidlr oe king t the desert.
er whith" dusosit  "Not &amp;fraid of godfederate
haters probably?. So fou 'sacked the madness
ou of Megdid you ? 'It was a rare thought!
Was it bitter?' Was'it'sweet? Fine fooling for
one .hose neck is in danger.! You find in this
Camne Mies'sWildfire glamnourenough for a night."
"Cynical as ever !" murnured Phil.
;Giles turned to Margaret, and sail:
'ell, Disc Lawless, you are more of a witch
tian your mother. I thought you had nothing
to scatter buit wild eats; but'it.would seem that
you 'have 'loephilter pliltered through your
opd, which send, a soft frenzy through the
veins pQ adventurous swain"
"You n'  kegs9me. liberties, Sir Peddler,"
answei-ed Meg,  oin, account of your bravery
this night. cWhatpver you 'Have heard of eaves-
'dropping," nke mnc of ; for" I'll warrant
you'll  vei- h'e'ar .anything euial to it agaibi.
'When you have enjoyed it sufciently, perhaps
you'Will be 'good enoughto tell us what we are
,to go."~
" God know what you'll do," answered,
Piles, dryly. "'Most anything, I imagine, that
,Phil"might ask. He is ready, at an rate, to do
your bidding; and I'm  not suie ut he'd go
Lack to the .Confederates, if you told him to.
How came you here ?"
"On foot,", said Phil, rather smartly.
.'"YQg must know, Mr. Giles," added Meg,
"that I set out to pilot Philip to a temporary
hiding-place in the woods, close- on the margin
of this longswamp. We met Ben Watrous on
t ie wpy, whep Phil, still in Rachel's gown, im-
prudently gave hiua blow which brought hni
to the ground."
e He s always up to some rashness," observed
Giles.      m
and, it the select company of Jonas Thorn, fbi-
lowed u withhorse and hound."
-'. The .hound l'it you, and this puppy licked
the would " muttered Giles.
"Rail on, crabbed t9ter of overgrown bun-
'dlea!  The ,hopud was Choked by Phil and
sneaked off. It was done right bravely."
" IDut not till it had bitten you!" 'odered
piles.
"Wo 'ry not about the bite (" retorted Meg.
'Phil attended to that, SirKnight of the Round
Pagk,;' Had your lips touched the wound, I am
sure. sihogld have died id tae leech would
have lived.. But a truce ,to' pur badinage !
We, ave benbotl' pursued, and 'hil has got
baikshot'just bejlw hiselbow."
" Not a buckshot, abg,hit, a birdshot no big-
ge, than a mustard seed,"WsaidPhihp. "If my
arm hadn't bepn where it was--
He stopped, and Margaret laughed merrily.
"I can guess where it was !" grumbled Giles.
" A mustard-seed shot wouldn't have 'hurt-her


X4                               THE ROUND PCK.
amsh. T~ek     would have protepted you,.I nei h was, in this instance, an affirmatiye to Ben
4re a 3y itg;9otten. mean, 'arous                    for be ebnatrue4 'it to Come'frpm his
"Very "el fot yo,. peddler, lthopgh it   na nagwho 'hd probably erayed ia that di-
alle gut I are pot ,a subject'of' the' bvere gn J section, and beeh eatdt-edby 'Philip. So mak-
you .have mentioned. Cotto, and are not ipg straight for thatt 4dattel, be soonn canht
friend. w eh fact; blots the'point of youin- sight of a figure. ' U  *eflt idoewlibg-pice
unehde                          s",         and bing  at the powder. -Bit It did not op.
"he r a erLeilig in the bushes," atimeerate as'Ben had anticipated.  On amount of
Phil.                                       the ibdentatidn jn the 'barrel, lude'by Phil's mis-'
" I heard it five minutes ago,"'said Giles.  chievous rliet, it burst, and'th'e 'iarg"e"assed
"Why do you stand iere,then ? "asked )far- out at the side. ' ens "hlandi were brned, his
geret, quickly.. "There will be something haitinged,' hie face blackened with powder,
more than birdshot coming this way, soon."'  hisn'es stung  ith eharcouldand shlphukf.
"Be, quiet I" said the peddler, ip a low tone.  HI gunwas a wreck, and he held the spun.
" The noise .has at ped, . Nothing was to be ternd stork inb'is'smarting-fingers in dismay;
feared while we could hear it., People in iis-i nor'did be drop it till Oiles eeht a ballet through
chief are always still. Stand in line With these his cap.  Then lie turned to rui, but collided
trees, kargaret. 'We don't Want any more with Joant 'horn, who was driven backward
wounds for Phil to doctor."                 and forced tofall. ' Jonas 'struck on his shoul-
The parties 'got softly behind a elaster of 1 ders eand is nduking-gun 'et off' into the air ;
trees and bushes, and stood quietly.'      for he bad' bee creeping With it dol ked.  But
"I am sure," whispered 'Meg, 't'at' I can this dreadful enemy of' dueks did ridt explode
hear them creeping. Cousin, Phil, wly not sit hatmlessly'; 'it erried away 'all the hair on the
down, so as to'be out of range ?"  .        right of Ben's head, with a large piepof scalp
"Cousin Meg, why not -sit down, so as to be to bear it coeipany. 'The 'cock-fighter founder'
out of range !' Phil whisperedekacl agah.  ed over into the"belack mud, suffered his arnai
v I may stand up as long as I please,'and be and legs, With the coor  trunk, to lie utter
in range as much as I'may, I date say! nutter- l quiet, and really believed -that'- he was dean.
ed Giles. "It don't adrt'a faithful old deg to 'be  tided, he said as mech, and by and-by settled
shot. But never miid i No hardness. I fear it beyond dispute by'one of the motimpressiw
no Ben Watrous. Get the other side of the oaths that he had ever 'sade.
boy, Meg ; you're exaotl in herm's way now."  Jonas: did not feel himself dead, but angry.
"Ill stand before youfyou like, for you are He 'sprang up' In a  siniing heat, and in his
brave, aid I do love bravery in a luau.* -'htry to reach a safe plade for loading, actually
Margaret planted her little figure directly be.- stepped on Ben's stomach ; thus using his fall-
fore the peddler. 'Stooping, he ttirnd her, en comrade for a 'bridge.  A shot from; Phil,
round, and taking 'her by th  arms, lifted "her more nimble then' his legs, struck 'hint on the
up. The breaking daylight flickered upon her left shoulder, and nearly upset hini; but he
features.                                   staggered-o, with a sensation alon  his shoul-
" Your ae is like your mother's," he sai, in dem-blad e as if a hundred bees had stung him
a softened voice. He put her gently dewn be, at one.  Quite faiht, he  i-awled under some
hind an oak.. " Your waist is life a'wasp's. No 'brakes, and lay flatto the ground.
wonder you are lithe and agile.  otne,-ba pas.  The peddler dashed ainto the 'thicket. Wa-
sive, for nobody doubts your cunragC4'      trous, bearing him coming, so far revived from
" Face like my mother's ?" murtured Mpra his defunetion, as to get up and run away,
garet. " I have never been told so before'' We  Thorn, confident' that he should not be die-
are said to be very unlike;"            .   oered, kept still. Giles, finding nothing but
",I don't mean Ann $hore," answered th" ped- the squatter's twisted' ahd "splintered fowling-
dier, tartly. - ''                         'piece, ,returned toMeg auA Phil.
Don't mean~Ann hore I" retested the girl,' The first tremulous'ray of siflight was quiv-
greatly surprised. "I believe  have but 'ise erIng on the girl's fhee.  Giles looked at her,
mother."'p                                  and 'there 'was 'less severity in hiS expression.
One of the peddler'abandsastole downupot %er              -   --...... -
11p, to prevent her 'from t lki.'Wth the'CHAPTE             R    fXH.
other, he drew a rerolrei-. 'The et was, e                 TWO ways.
heard a slight rustlingg, and it 'was not far o T. he peddle t untied Clipper, and -signified
He knew' the sound did not come from Cllppr, that they Whould be moving.
for he was tieq behindd the catnp, and this cans  "Phil," sid he,'"«ona'muat  adh bhe Fed-
from the' opposite directIon. .             eral lines righ$ soon.
They listened.'Yhere's a 'mar94 14'-1 eery  " How is it to' be done?" 'said i'e young
sitapon ; and'pi tiis ecanionC  per 'has the 'man.
marplot ; for' he.ife'd hp his 'voiee's a' 1 led  here a e tiwo Ways,' arise red G slee'  ne
Although a   anr's iay is a ng*  a horse   ;   wam'1 the othelsto ride0Hi$ni "'_ff pou

5

S
T-9  1 fD PA4    .
walk, you will ge in strait 3!#ens wQ   4R e h   I pg A 4oer Va4iii ishga  Strepg ur
and swamp, and a tramp of five mile will take tar, jhp the. C es erate .ny, Ciles. Th
you to, th Uni on, piekets, i yg ride,;  you  se igAyl p  ai [4gro,  p t  a  eti
will go a crooked path, through a moredager7 ly= tq; i  a i navye got ae the eTpe4
eus steton;and the distaaewil,1, heeight drrip     nrd p Iwpieg (fpr     ayT_ .y Qroe -
miles, Wh4hbeyenetled       9p  g q , I  dw  ett's ghost pisth ave  en  h uerwg prpu
set your face. i; the right 1rqqaon,andgie whlp - 4nahed 44  to O r nt, Sch a-bet
you such istruitions Iht you, esp?4 Well t    a   u o ensfppts and  , wpn  neve 8gora
aside.'w: l y                                                           I        tik
I" was   ays.fnI of rding," q upwered   " As mixed aid fantastie a9 they  ro,'I thin
Philip, glancing 't Qiper,  ih the peddler thiey' hparve the hanging of you yet, observed
was leading. _f What do you n4vieV       , Gles. " Thp tryth i4, 'hil, you usel #guar-
" I have heard,".eaid he of the round peek. diap,. Dmrga et iSore might osili take care
with a smile, "that this wap of a girl is'qore of You; but I  hink she won odbelth to un-
of a witch  th n  her  mothsr;  lb refve  usit  de; abe eu h  a  task  A  g ide  is  whathFu r
her. Being such an enchantress, she c rtain4y  4re; and she, his guide' yob this ighi wit
ought to be able to give yos popd adyios. imy vengaence. Ulnh here we ar. If you are gpr
counsel would be mere ressoning frorg eeptain ugssross-lots, herq lies ypur path; This long
data, and would _n. go beyer)4 common sense, belt of timber indicates the direction. Followr
at best, and do. what you migl4 with it; but it yitht diiigenge, and in twQ honra yoo will be
this eacult prestgre,- by ypur own showing, in;a place of sfely, where you may laugh at
would, lkely enough, speak from setiul ore- eotton halters."
knowledge. We cannot stop to .st up a ah '"Alad yau"' .said Philip, turning suddenly
drone, and perform ,p  tatinna vet a boiling upon Giles, " What will-you do?"
decoction of toad an  peat, an  bat and viper,  "I will take care of myself, 1hihp Crosby ,
and suh delicacies ; but she is at lierty to dis- he answered, moodily
co se as she goes algng, aid breathe her mys-  "J3ut your secret is out, my friend." urgM4
4ic lore to the mornipg air."               Phjlip. "Before meridian, rewards will be cif-
"Well done, Sir Growler 1" retorted Marga- fare4 fpr your qpprehension. The Rsbels 4il
-ret. "You have some gmatperiig, of hooks, I take portiqular pleasure in hanging a Federal
perceive, and can speak within the limits of the spy who has been within their lines so oftor
humanities when you have a smind. Were you ,eplly, 5 cannot find it in nyheart to lest
aware, Sir, that you actually emiled ? Do not you. I entreat you to come with me."
do it again, if you plebe.Nan auglalyt ageers  "Be  ol tent to go alQue. Be glad to receive
become your lips. 'J'he leppardl nes let his life on such teqsc. You have egn in great
pots alone, and the .tliiopian must not wash peril, bt pow safety seems before you. Move
his skin. jowever,.were I tp advise Philpp. I on, and quicldy."
should say, ' Take the least dangygrnus ote,'  " Could 1have my own way," answered Phil-
" A sweetheart's advie l resumed the ped  ip, seriously, "I would prefer sharing your
diler. "And none the worse for tht. Iurry dangers tp escaping in -tiis manner. WVe may
up, Phil! (Don't :loiter  Let- .he girl wlk be- not peet again..  cannot go without thanking
fore you, and then yp .can see her without; you fr ypr more than brotherly devotion.
twisting your face over your shoulder."    aUepok the peddler' sbaud..   This true hand,
" Let me alone" said PhiL                he added, "h laeen my shield, an4 your bon-
" It would haye been better for me if I bd," es should s.h ve borne me frppl  tested
replied Giles. "I should rather  r the on- bondage.I mutt spegl of it.    psla    Msg
tents of Aunt Ohlos"s maraowgpn than se s, garet how manly you have been. Fown, it
-sialadroit rogue. wit never nd, Ihave seen you must, but I will let her know it. Come
fine fooling,~with the stage-box all to myself.".. here, Margare. :Do not think ill of this man,
"I shall take the air-line," sasid l,lese  r, called Giles. The outside of him is the worst
,kirugging big. poiplders. , for cper,. do side of hbp.  is heart.}s ' o' flint; thers are
what you please with him  John Bra, Jac sofp        in it, and t is fu, of' brave blond,
}sy, agili nsver get sigb? of him again. .y the  yg      b fe hette for saying, tht,  p er-
way, what made Joha  came o tbe rescne, I  apn saves . .ife, promote ne if I dsqt tello
pseqd to byt with him, but J 4id ,npt suppps itP
,tha hp had any friendship for me. That scajgs "'That will do, boy !" returned Gil's. "The
was a dashing affair! You're a perfect Jea- helt of tim er, rsruembhey, is: gur guide, As
aerges, 'whentoomes;ta ths matter ef lone aad for this. gir, Igllse a9 h  ht gpa  gaf.
muscle. Rachel behaved admirably.' Dp you You need 't worry"purgeif     o   t    ik
5l07 ip~   I eamt hnr #4s%    4pe   geant  ,n 11y4. go  qn e     at o gt ,oopo
44 agwtstp t      ing Ey ,9wn   L -l #t ulsi, if  ak  fp the Sre fal  t ya p, usppet .oq
p hadn'L bean ferargapet, wm1 ne,  g   it :leadi nutp  w he}it  tiwpp yoAt'an ,r
tailings, kepttrgp.,  ' wai di g gyps  i %: y9a  #9P?,nipMw ip  "4 Prn :p i   ge '


sonie -tite consentt to be the annoyance and
vexAtionof your life. Ann shore might have
bad a worse daughter';' 'ad you needn't trouble
yourself about :hdr mother. If'she don't suit
you, we may perchance find time to look up
another. So shaie hands, and-bedff."
"'Fle's my 'hand; 'Philip,"'said Margaret:
"Tivill always think of you. Don't litiger, and
send a line to your mother th? first chance that
offers. Now 'go 'fast."
Phil toolk'her hantd, and seemed unwillingg to
part' with' it. He 'gave 'it several shakes and
eqheezes, and the peddler turning' to adjust
C ipler's bridle at 'the 'critical'- moment, he
kissed her. 'It was the. first tine 'his lips ever
touched her's'; and be felt"that "he 'had not
known her hitherto. " He dropped her soft hand,
waved an adieuto 'Giles, and disappeared in
the timber
"'There goes abrave and trusty lad," said the
peddler. EIf you have fairly touched his
heart, he will be faithful. to you. Your fidelity
there 'is no dqubting, for I 'know the' race'from
which you sprang,"'
He said these' words thoughtfully.
"You say things occasionally," replied Mar-
garet; " that I cannot understand. What you
know of me, I cannot even guess.' At any rate,
I'm not worth talking about. -Even a stranger,
it appears,' could not come to Bayou Bottom
without hearing of mc in a- fashion not very
flattering to female vanity. From  what you
have said,-I should infer that you are 'not alto-
gether a stranger to 'the Shores. It is not a lit-
tle singular that you bhould-learn so much of a
flygway girl by just stepping within the town
limits. Come, mysterious cynic, avow yourself."
"Let us attend 'to practical thatters, Miss
'Mrgarget.",
So saying, he' wound his fingers into Clippe'r's
pnane, and sWung himself easily into the saddle-'
and before Meg was aware of his' intention, he
bent lbw, caught her by the arats, and lifted her
1ip before him. She was cradled carefully in his
arms in a moment, ,and Clipper was rocking
both with an easy motion.
CHAPTER     XXIII.
TAmE iER AWAY.
'The man of the round hpaek rode boldly tow-
%rd Crosby'e. Meg remonstrated ;' 'sle entreat-
ed ; she tried, to slip down from the pomatel,-
but the arms'of the peddler held her in' a firm
grasp.She did not wish him to " run into
danger".         '',,
" Danger," said Giles, " is what n'am used to.
J helieve''as much In- destiny 'as Napoleon Vona-
parte did.' No man can die till liia time Comes,
ry'hd ever'io'hard. My star is' not old enough
to set yet, 'nor bright enough to"'make 'muoh
difference when it dogs. So on ride we. It's
ny opinion that' the 'Sergeant wont come back

again,'and' we'll clmnter by Ann -Shore's door as
we go-albng."
" Be careful what you say of my mother!"
warned Meg. "
w "Of her," answered the peddler, with em -
Inbasis,- I'll say nothing. Bat of that no mor'
Everything has -its appropriate season. Th--,
course of nature muat be followed.' Fevers have
their time to turn, and intermittents their' reg'-
jar alter'nations -of 'heat and cold. So' seer'a
have their' time to' be told. Wine grows better
as it grows'old'; and secrets, well kept, are like
wine, But here we are at the cabin of the nuc-
turnal woman. She thought to' do me a harm
this night; but I did not wait for the ripening
of her plot."
He reined Clipper up to-the door, which was
open. A hot fire was blazing on the hearth.
and the steam'and flavor of boiling herbs flowed
out into their faces. Margaret sighed.
"Sigh iot," said Giles,' kindly.' "Comfort
your little- heart. This woman is not youm
tmother.. This much I will tell you; though -]
meant it not five minutes ago."  The tone, the
manner, and, more than all, supremely above
all.' the announcement penetrated every nerve
and 'consciousness of Margaret.' Her arms fell
heavily upon his, and her head sank back upon
his breast.' Meg- had fainted.  The glorious
golden light of the early sun fell upon her now
white face like a baptism of fire. She looked
fair in the eyes of the manwho held her.
" What,0'ho01 Ann'Shore !" cried Giles.
The old woman toddled to the door.
"Here again on your high horse, Dick ?" she
said. " What burden is that in your arms? Is
it Meg  'What have - you been doing to her ?
$he looks like a corpse !"
"Bring water,' Ann," he answered.  " The
child -has fainted."
"Then you've - been' blabbing in her ears,
renegade !' screamed Ann.
" Your'beggarly friends 'have frightened her,"
said Giles. " Some of your squatter neighbors
hate $iven her nerves a shock.   Since the
breakhig out 'of the Rebellion, even young
maidens are not- afe. Some of your halters
might' 'db good service , were they used near
home."
Meg was reviving.
"1 want no water !" she murmured. "I am
well enough nbw."
"'" Take her away h"'cried Ann. " She helped
Phil, the deserter, get away."' .
Grimakey-flew at Clippeir'a hoofs and tried to
bite them ; but his littleteeth slipped from them
as if they' were iron. This so provoked his
wrath,-that 'he' made fierce bounds at the ped-
dler'S'feet.'  "  ;'
"No kith nor kin of mine," added' Ann, spite..
fully, "ean side with the Norther i negro-freers,
and come 'home to me for a' welcome. Away
,withher, and joy of the quittance !"

8

tH9   1t0U14 D , PAGI .'

"How is your patient ?" asked- Giles. " Did [ been. said.  She was in ,great perturbation of
you find him here when you came back 4"     mind, to which the fatigues' of the night had
"1You're a sly fox !"said Ann. ":But there materially contributed. Tlhe Lst few hour shad
never was a Reynad so sly but he cane to'grief, beei, with her, a period of peculiar' excitement(;
by and-by, by dog ortrap."- -              but the announcement thaut the peddler lea i
"Bot your" trap caught me not !" retorted made, that Ann Shore was no 'her mother, af-
the peadler. "It was a shallow device for a 'fected her more than anything which' had'hap-
witch." I4 am a better leech than' you. I cured pened. The motion'of the'horse quickly reviv-
Aaron Furness. I led him by the nose'into the ed her.' There were many questions 'vhich she
road, and set him going. He forgot' his pains, desired t  siek ;. but by the titde' she had con-
and-ra like a stag-hound. 'In yonder clump of eluded to ask them, Clipper's nose was at Crose
troes'I 'stood, and saw you returni*ith Confeder- by's door-knob.
ate soldiers. I snapped umy 'fingers at them,
and rode safely'away. I called to tell you that       ' CHAPTER XXIV.
I am well, and well likely to be."'                       THE LON  CLOCK.
"Benot too-sure of that," answered Ann     Hearing'the-'thud ofhoofs, Crosby came tp
Shore, dismally. ' "Stronger men than you have the door. His surprise at seeing Giles ,was
swung theniselv-es into a'saddle in' the niorning, 'great, for he believed- him many miles'away.
and 'have swung fro i a gallows at iight."  He began to tell him Uf-the danger of returning,
' You would Idan one of your 'cotton ropes, but the peddlei gave him no attention. lie
no 'doubt, for such an ocasion.  Iowever, I dropped Margaret gently upon the ground, and
wish von no ill, nor do I see that greater harm  calmly 'dismounted,  Just 'then, ".Black Jack
can h'alpen to you tian what is already befallen- showed his d 1aky face ; for that, chattel was in
Were you less malignant, I am sure I should be no hurry abouit goingback to Paw-Paw" Ford.,
moved with compassion . by your condition.   "'Loramity  ar'r' Peddler!" he exclaimed.
You have become a wotnan of evil habits and "What for you come' back? 'Pears like you
of evil name-a nocturnal monomaniac, stealing don't car' for noffin !"
weird fancies from  the moon, and gathering   "I came to bring -Margaret," replied Giles.
green herbs by banks and bottoms. Your brain "Do you want Clipper, Jack?"
'is sick and your thoughts distempered."     "Not so long as you wants him, Mars'r Giles.
'Ride away on your borrowed horse!" said Mars'r John don' cart if he never sees him no
Ann. "' Come not to my door with taunts and more. He haven't forgot Black Swamp yet.
scoffing. Hence, beggar !"                  Keep him, Mars'r Peddler, keep him! I eam
"Not so much of a beggar as Imight be. , I worth his weight in gold ;'but he none too good
own somewhat more than -a round pack," re- to tote a Fed'ral, when his neck am in danger.
turned Giles.                               He'll take ye righit'away from them yer bullets;
" Ay.! ay! A round pack, with a craven de- mars'r. Loramity, how he'll run !"
sorter in it! . Your shoulders of a horse ake,  Jack patted Clipper;s neck, and seemed very
you a fitting beast of burden."             proud of him.
"V ou called rae a beggar  It will by and-by   "Black Swamp," repeated Giles, thoughtfully.
turn out that no beggar am I. 'There are cer- "So he found me out, did- he? Well,,he's a
tain papers that will establish my right and generous fellow, at any rate, and a brave.. His
title to an -estate of no mean value."      coming down her to rescue Phil was a fine piece
" There may be," answered Aim, sarcasticall , of daring. John Brant will soon be a Unionist.
" such papers as you speak of, but they are'lile Thisis a noble horse. Your master is a con-
hirds, in the bush, which are worth less than noisseur in horse-flesh. But this :horse-flesh
birds 'in the hand. Such papers might as'well needs to be eared for a little. Take him some-
be in the Red Sea, for all the good they will do where out of sight,'Jack,'and give him a gen-
you. So: yoi can smother 'that 'hope and go ereus- feed of such proventer as, can be had.
your way. Not a dollar of that property will You, being a sort of foster-brother, will look to
you get. -There'is a secret well kept ; and when him faithfully, no doubt; and as for the matter
I die, it will die with me. So.hence, beggar,!"  of grooming, you know more about it than I
a"I have known'," said the peddler, " shrewd can teach you.'
and ambitious persons to be oitwitted. You    "I'll thke him,,Mars'r. But look.yer! TDon'
have heau'd, doubtless, of -the wondrons wise 'ou tay 1og if you knows when you's well-off.
man who scratched out his ,eyes with a brier'- This yer town'll be' all of a buzz to day. The
bush. "Look out for the briers, Ann Shore !"  Secesh'll swarm like .bees. They hev foun' ye:
For an'answer, the woman sldtnmed the door out, Marsr Giles   Pd' 'Ieel" mighty bad tb see
againstClipper's nose, 'and went'inuttering to ye kickin' at a coton rope.  Hope ye hevea't
egot no pers'bput, ye to go ag in ye, like, if
The peddler tonedd from the'dwelling with .you're to becoteheAandrunaged.
Margaret in his arms, who was not Snflici a$1j y'  Well Lhopght ,.cJal .!Yourjudgmeut is
reator-ed'to :sense to know everything that h'ad eliireir than your ekin and your heart is better

. THE ROUND PACK.                   57

;,1
;  r ";


is              THE ,RQTLk PAL.

than yor ratmapar. the are pot     i, ,Jack,
f       il tatoil     paokegood sot-
re and' faith  ill-. ,
Be pit his hand   o the breast of his coat,'
looked at Jack, and hesitad. The faithful fel-
low stood eeing ham. -
"Jack," added tiles, p1    in a whisper, *I
have, indeed, imurtant papers upon my per-
son. I am going to intrust t hem tt you.,Mchc
depends on their-safe-keeping. A word inyour
ear, Jack."
He whispered to the negr-o.
"I'll take 'em, Mas'en-I'11 take 'em  right
glad I I'll be sut into incbrpieces 'fore I'll give
em up. The'1. be safe while I draws the breff
o' life. God bless you, Mars'r, and God bless
Votihr person ! 'Specially the t'oher person . '
"Step-into the entry, 7adit;' said Giles. "  o'
One must see anything pass between us."
Jack, with the bridle-reiinn his hand, step-
pod over the thi-eshold.' Crosby had gone in
bith Meg, and was questioning her about Philip.
"Open your jacket, Jack."
The peddler passed 'him the packet with a
quick notion ; it was out of sight ere it was-fair-
ly seen.  Jack's black] heart,i f it were black,
was beating against it, and he buttoned his jack-
et lightly over it.              e
"Remember, Jacki ' If anything is worth a
hurnai life, it is that little- packet.  In the
right hands, it is fall if hagpiness ; in the wrong,
It is full of misery."
"Never fear, -ars'r -Gi, never fear ! I'll
take good car' o my life, jes' for 'to -take car' o'
this yes. I'll take a either bag fort when l
git home, and I'll allygg Wear it right over my
eastt"
-" T anks, my friend, thanks! Keep well your
trust, and some day you shall te a free man,
Jack" added Giles, in a kindly voice.
- " oramity !you makes mvbeait jump aw-
ful! Goa bless you ahd 'the totherl  I donned
which- to pray for' the most!"       .
Jack hurried from the door with Clipper, with
new feelings in his soul.
"Those iapers," murmured the peddler,," are
safe ihile Jack lives. For gepuine fidelity, give
We the negro. He is only rivaled by the faith-
f iness of the dog.",
In walked Giles. - Mrs. Crosby n't him, d4
took his hands.  Gone was distrust. She wi'n-
dered bow she duuld have thought is face ugly,)
or his expression minister.
.You are," she exclaimed, "the friend, of iy
son'! These stroll ' arms 'brought me my son !
Yotiibravery save my son !  I ean hot thank
you enough: Next to my'son, I will 1ove you
and pt y for you.  Take my blessing, good
Sir."      A    -        -
My house and all that I have are"freely;
yours;" said Mr. Crosby, "-yet I would that you
were fifty mi.es from here.''
"I Will not tarry long, worthy people," an-

awred Qp.   "I haste sen ?Tiil p Paiel 4an
the way to tf F  rell   s,ad     ,i jt
my duty to trig ebackthisravi girl; for, with
-h her w l4nes, 4is Margaret has good '"4l-
ties. 1 did not feel It right to let her trudge
home aloe,S he has had     any adventures
to-niglt. Y may say that she has fonght with
beasts, an4.tbrpe--" he paused, and looked; at
Meg archly-.
" Must I have at you again '' she inaerposed,
recovering 'er vivacity. " Come, now, he char-
itable, ,  A,0 984ipg  the hound and .its dQ-
' Fear not, Miss Wildfire! Probably no per-
son present is , m I in  interested in the, varioue
methods 4,f extraeing- poison, or cares to hear
opinions reappeting the bites of doge," Then
to Crosby: " Iperceive that Margaret. has not
inforined you that she and Phil were pursued by
Ben Watrous with horse and hound. But your
eon proved enough fpr both ; be throttled thse
bound, and he-" the peddler squinted at Mar
garet, who blushed-" and he protected Meg.".
. The girl smiled. She feltassured that he
secret, if she had one, was safe.
"I never praised Phil to his face," Giles went
on, " but his management of this night's work"
-he touched Margaret slvly--" has been very
creditable. Now, good friends, giya nsia.mouth,
ful of food, and sonethiog to wash it down with,
and/I will aso le vi you."
He put, b  lignds siuddeujy to his neck.
" W bat is the matter?" aked Mrs, Crosby.
"I felt a queer sensation there," he replied.
"I am superstaious. I lave heard it saidpthat
a bian who is in danger of being hanged feels
the pressure or.a cord ppon his throat as often as
the peril apprgeles. It is a folly, dare say
but every person eas his folly."
"Are you jesting ?" asked Margaret. -
" No," sswered Giles, seriously. "In truth,
I had such fancy ; but it, comes, probably, of
constant anxiety and overstraiied nerves. Speak
no more of it. Go, if you please, Croeby, and"
ha-  Jack take the horse around back of the
house into the woods, agd stand by. him, bridle
in hand, ready or e ,to mount instantly. I
own to feeling uneasy,"
The peddler walked to a window, and looked
out.
Margaret 'ought a bottle ot wine from a side:
board.
"it is (Ad rort juice,?paid Mrs. Crosby} " and
of undoubte4 age 'anduality,"  -
"Sorelf I needl it,' said Gile.  'Another
glass."
Margaret place{ a seeon4dglass before him.
He poured so _e of thppwine i4to each, filling
the o     .n.ejde_ for  ignself to the brim.
"Meg, my girl, drink with ,me. - Much ya
require , tie genial glow o Wine,  Refuse, me
not.
Margaret took up the glass, and lifted ha

ye r  t1   g40 yet ilhape ,pddalerte; The alarg ea  Oief".Sd ed atesy:meeting'him on
.idyi  stt a l ag ratCed eats;they beae4pi hi &amp;hethreshkJd. ' Ufthereibeisn'y psoape ,it-aia
.frie k, e*  Moe ~enan b dbihged'       be through the.backalbbW   . i  ,-
"Mind you, Meg, we are to dtinkil  wi hopt   A window will do aswel, said 'argaret.
.  ppfng, tile   liIe thbomtm of uriglasses. .  iJaekedt of sigh with:the horse' asked
IMtQ 'BIiIt.flh   W 1awmidriketa a:uaie. iThe Gies ;-:                   :-
ase   salklk Philip  r1oeel.siund driekP': - " Entirely," answered Grosby' "He is setne
They tmuaedgi".g ase  they looked a&amp; eah  od   r ito tl e hpusi, among the hiekories  1
etlher ;they-&amp;:a k  Mra.Cresby lookedd *t        'ben Iam.s   "said Gile.
Sthar asif te miraalei of; the lion aa the lamb  T flowafe ':demanded Margaret; iuioualy.
had happened. Iadteqioef beingtsat, itseems to me-that you
f'You b aie -said :noti'gef ,odr Margaret;" are lost. . I can hear the ringing  of their
she obeved t'bu = judge byyour eendtit sabres."
that,sl:he has been rety:helpfulto Philip.'?  "Let thec ving#'eai}the -peddler, sternly.
i' Se has, trulif' saiduGiles, seating hiw seff " I hope sews- tAme -to be 4arer them, with
at the :tatle -aththihthe mistreuisof-thahouse scores of-stanueh Unionists at'mg bek
L.5as abuay plaeingieatablesd  @"fhe tigressiqouldi  # It ia no titie to ttiink ofasuelt things !?t :
not guard' he  ubeite hiilflly .han,heibas eaimedG-Oreby. 'You: might have been eleo:
guarded Phil. Exeuse the iord.'tigress',"Miss of the house- bj this-tInie.  . -  .-
Lawlessa,andisit yohdoiwnidrhOby sue, and eat.  ' Iami never -ulconseious of-the sit ation,"
Iaos figuratitep, but puttioos'   .::      anSwered the peddler;ealmly. "I decided whiat
_ . Ma are was oinmlinn.                   to do ;two minute$ Ogo?
"fMoter Orsby'T-6be saida  T must do %tis- 'iBidet' entreated Margaret.
person's bidding.. I own tht I am a Tittle weak, :   I .was but1 paekhbrse last;night." he to-
too endhungry., o,'r                       sponded.ismiling. {:My neck, too, was fit -fr
,APoor -ohild W  aid Mra Crosby, p-tting aI the batter only. Hoaw human opinion hangedl"
-motherly dhand:e leer bhead.  ' I  onder.that  Margaret-raaand bolted-the door. She lod,
you can stand on:youi feet after Andh a night od at -the peddler reproahfully.  -
of worriment. ;  ou arb aydaughter in -future." '  " Frgive +net" he added, in a more earnest
:Lueky .edugh-t": obsoe4d-'Giles+ :'Ann toine. ",Idid but jest to try you. Ooinehithow,
-Shore hbs warned -her otut.' BcHeoffenade was giWland look mue in." -
befriending your son."                        Giles opened the door-of..the -long eloek that
-4"Fiom this moyitnt I have two daughters !"-stood- in a. rnery It was- an ancient clock,
eemolaimed Mrge osbs, kissing Margerat.' - deep -and wide. It hadtdeeended-te' the Grea-
" What "good thinge-frieids'aret' soid thp bs front anceitors1wh6 had been ahes for a
gi-    - :.  . -----          ---.-uarter dt Ie ettrnt. With Its reat. face and
" I.6hink you never badj eeeswofithem,said blaokigau, -it #s ,giuit among timekeepens.
Giles.  I s should int know where t go  uitop  Modern ileoeke were pigiiiee beside lt not worth
y finger on d bakea'/s nsee.'  --  -     mntnidrilig.4 GeseMtions of ;nen had died
"You cannot ied ianyewt -of this hbuse,"' since the old pendulum began to swing
Meg a,uswered :s ;                -~-".      -Oles . iped #t ;phdhid it' backward, and
- The peddler-drank-aobhewr brimnleg glass qf steppedlintoi tiodbttf eavity,'where ithad 'i.
wine. - e stopped eddelyis theiidst-of hip- bratedse niasfgears, eating -eteadily into the
eating. A sound-;lhad reached hle -ers. e   Opearta of timhe. "Giles euldhave Wished for
arose from theItab., -..                    More aphee,   ttherevas ndteigh- o-stand i,
"Girl," said; hey,-'go and gjve- your black by making the most of it, and adapting hkis body
eyes a flirt up and down the road.          to the~ St'tie"ofthe eireunisttancesel When
Margaret lasteneddu tf-thehouse. Littep he had adjusted bimslf "he said, witi a smilti:
lug a metent, she distihetl bead thielatttr  - I tlank, ffieby d'tAt  nbraidlok wll-stop !
eng of hodfs: She, st"an ba   enkly   eRHet Now, Mar 'efe, t m g    de-'r the favor to
;ae gave tle alarm betre abe - e.o's--      we thlh ii sr do , are2ovkit:
" Some horsemen are coming !" she exl  i  -" &amp;naithle! P'"dried Ma g' "htlbe. Wr
ed. ;! Theytar nea . (let awy sis soo "yo4 didn't we think t put Phili in it ?"
Son.-         - '"' '                    '    "Yt t    tnk f       Idttie hy?" mutteo .
I-thodrgbe I Ras  d&amp;#eeied ' said'Gilesf ed-Gilbs  "Qifiak: ehi  'Pi'e  spur  aIngle
*sAll n ir acalltieg hav4'bee° fe!ed te4ke ehen  eerrily  They kd fearle  ui eretwhen t ere's
atry over-mnysafet  -da thetrain~ig ties ar  o66"6 tomeet?.r  "
:d-toe-aed  f 1 t dud eargihg           .    Meg Shoe     6tnd   iashoi ts dloel t"fore
TIhehunder-of oefdsre'vr' wl t wdtih OrGs had edoespeang. t0he foeked tn        d
house.. ;Meg Shore1had a teady hEd  ed hji 'eg  put the key in        It Was 'not aino-
Ou hs head' adIi ldtbekhLn t" the' dey 4tneht: 'o  s6th. '   Vonfederates were dis-
trt thee the .head  f-adsad atef d #albj bowiting. Margaret hhuuld see the glitter of
Game in sight.                     °' -     their arms through the windows. Sh li stoned

MI~Jit WLD? K.5

r
i


80                 YTHE 'ROUND PAC.

to unbolt the.door while Mrs.'Crosbybrought
aRebel flag from 'a, elbset 'and placed it' haa
Corner where it could be keen.
Crosby put bis:wounded arm -into its convene
ieut'sling, andiMargaret. busied herself placing
some cold meats upon the table. There- was
little titne for.refleetib or preparation. Some
elankingof sabres ;,some jingling of curbs and'
spurs ; some boisterous talk;,some- bantering
ands afew oaths; some interlinking of bridle'
reinsthen in came the Rebel;.riders,;pell-iell.
CHAPTR XXV.
_IN  &amp;I TRLAIT £PLAOZ.
Soldiers, Federate,.or ; Confederate, arez a!-
ways hungry. .No mater; what:the hour of the
doy is ;; no,matter whether it.isnimorning, noon,
or evening, profound midnight or ,glimmering
dawn,fit isallt.he-same-tha warriors be he of
high. or low. degree, craves meat and 'drink.
Never marched an army past villa, ;through
hamlet or city,'without hunger and thirst, and a;
stealthy 'dropping out., from the, ranks. , Then
are wigows'houses devoured;, then 'are:fowls'
bebeaded'; then ,:are;infauile swine unkindly
:killed);-;thea ate cold joint ap knuckles cram-
med into haversacks, or whisked out.of .sight.
under cloak or coat ; tben desecration, to the
thriftylh*rusewife's pet stores)otconserves and.
jsis; then away go.loaf. and: eake, without so:
. nob ia "Thank'yn;u',,itx return,...
Soldiering does not put afire polish ;upon the
e*araeter, _nori improve :the etiquette=of man-
vrs; although! war is. thought .to be a .nice
thing for the nations sitting in darkness.. The
Christian religion 'is sometimes .earried-toothe'
eathenu on the pointseof bayonets. Mohampued
f .un thewor4.,a keen argument for his reve-
hitions.                ,5  - i
411 this means that the Confederaee horsemen
washed into Crosby's house with appetites sharp-;
er than their sabres ;which ,was not 'remarkable,
'inasmuch as their, teeth were kept on edge for
oopstant, use, while their ,weapons were .seldom
fleshed.  y.:                     " . .
The leader of this gallant band paused in the
middle of the loor.lpngenougl toplook around;
and.seeipg'thetable, and; a yoigg girl beside it,
hurried to ,the assault, , He did not.wait for;an
invitation to be; seated, but clapped down into
$hie most convenientgehar,,and drew himself to
the board.                  ,
, "What prne you  t ?" seled, Margaret,'sharp-
ly,.for. she liled;not these freeand-easy airs.;
"W :the table, anud at your service, too, fair
maid," answered the cavalry man,.drunaming on
algn pt y ;plat;  hhis g ovdhaad.'
" Those yhq eat ,tiio i. as ':added Meg.
'iiting  tasii is ir4.    .     ,
Several. others;pp sl 4,forwardstiling tbeir
sabresagainst .the-t. lq-legs as well  against
their py  f.                          .  ,

""What have we here ?" eried the Confederate
(aptain,'sowiturning all his attention upon the
person, of Meg. ""4A "sprightly damsel, upon
my word 1'      ; _   er r 1.
Captain ;Stockwelliof that'Confederate arm
of thetservice eodmol 'ly called cavalry; formed
a perspective ;tuber oftis tpaltl and finger% and
looked through it at :Margaret Shore.
'"Not large;;')notitediumm;dbelow the aver-
age'?P Theseeremarks referred to'the figure of
our heroine.
"Small' but';sbarp ;senisible but shrewish.
What is your name,child;;aand who lives here?"
"Iam   no more it child than you are a gen-
tleman-; and- as.for the hatter .of' who 'lives
here, youshould.'have asked' before, asfriends
expectfair treatment from friends. A: woman
of whom:younmay'have Jietrd lives: here ; and
her name is-Anna'hore."  '
A A seoreof tilnes I She' is a zealous -sup-
porter of the"Confederacy ; but I knew inot that
we had stumbled uponiher dwelling,' Who are
these. good people? i2eH mtde 'a motion tow-
ard, Mr. and Mrs.;Crosbyd  - "    ' - ! 41
"Those are her relatives,' 'with,.whom' the
lives, ;nd, hoare as'earnest in  their polities as
she :i .;,Re has been "in the; service."  She
pointed to Crosby.'. +'' And he's one of the com-
mittee-men,. too.f The Unionists .of these 'parts
fear him more than 'they love him. , You're all
right,,I suppose?. You wearConfederate but-
tons, I think."
." Sound to the cote, my girl, or should be, if
we were not hollow-with hunger. Inithis cursed
boggy 'country we' suffer. ,for',food.. There's
nothing but swamp, and bottom, and bayou
;here; and' as; for 1 bridges; blow: me out of a
niartar if I've seen ,one .for: fourteen days i
Squatters 1 have found its abundance ; but they
are worso than the frogs of :Egypt. 'The devil
would not eat their hog and hominy aand.if
they chance to ;have, a. demijohn 'of whisky, it
neep  a cast-iron throat to swallow-it ; and it
reeksith, the ,smell of the still -enough to
knock one down. I don't. like this dirty squat-
tar elemnent,:and. it'sa relief to get among de-
cent people"                  :'-      .
, :The Captain stabbed ata section of roast
beef,uad ; landed it .safely on his plate. His
comrades helped themselves with their fingers,
and the board was cleared in Athe flash of a-pis-
tol.    ..         ' ,  .
"1 wp t ,to see tuhis AWn, Shore," said the
Captain, when the beef had vanished, an'd who
divided. his'attestien ,agetequally, between his
plate and, Margaret. ,' We. are up on the .Fork-
ed Deepsolely thrughler agency, adil wish
the devil and t. Federal hadthe whole of this
regime, y 4pthirswetywill with it..,A-part of
t+ way, a  r.irkq q to the; pastern-joint, and
.they blepk eskems and: iayous are positive.
, nhomiouble..  erhaps you are Ann S'hore's
daughter ?"      '

*My *awe is Margaret Shore1" answered
Meg, ':.and71partly guess whyyouahave come.'?
"A witch yourself, ny dear I fAy and faze
mpre dangerous than your Jother,'too. i Ifs
.wereay own 'man,: blow -"mefrom ai morta if!
:I'd go any farther!;- I'd just sit down .at.your.
gate and erect siege-works on my own account,
providing I could notcarry the. fortress by a
dashing charge,'      . .-~
"If I am  the: fortress: youi mean,,the siege
would be a long one; and it's my opinion you'd
die in the'irst line, of trenches.
"4Saucily and, sharply answered," interposed
a 'Lieutenant. "Drawoff your . forces, Cap-
tain, and raise the .siege. You will have to
leave horse and lay up under. her:casemates in
iron-clad, and blaze away at short range, to
make any impression on, her works."
"The Forked Deer," responded the Captain.,
frowning, "is too -shallow for a gunboat; and I'
am not shallow enoughto attack a fortress that
is impregnable to shot or shell, 'to storm or' es-,
calade. What time is it, I wonder? My watch
has stopped."  He dragged out a large watch,
looked at it and at the long clock with a sudden
abstraction. His comrades smiled .Margaret
had wounded Captain Stockwell. She had hit his'
fancy ; filled his ideal; pleased his imagination,
and.put his warrior heart to sighing and long'.
ing.                      .f.'t.
" Is your.solemn old dial right, .Miss'Marga.-
ret?" he added.-
"'To a minute," said Meg'
"Thank you,". I'll 'eat .my watch by it," :he
responded, opening his time-keeper, and getting
out his key. " A very ancient clock.' I believe
it is the largest I, ever saw. ,,I have a weakness
(Pr antique clocks. r The case ihas grown black
with years, andthe dial is actually gray.. A
valuable relic, truly." ' .       -
Margaret's heart beat faster.' She; wished the
Captain and his watch' at- the bottom of the
Forked Deer.
- "JBefore..setting- your watch," said the Lieu-
tenant, sarcastically, "you had better observe,
perhaps, whether themouldy old thing is 'going.
It,:wpuld seem that this girl's-wit .and beauty
have made you insensible to the fact that the
cloak is dead." ' -                  .", "
;Sigpificant- glances and shrugs passed from
one to another,   . -      ' .
"It hasled to ma, has' it?" said Stockwell,.
pulling, pistol from; his ;belt. ,'Neither.elock,
nor man shall lie to me with inipunity 'll
send; a bullet throughitshypociitical old faced!"
'lNay !":initerposed Margaret,.'quickly. " It
was npt ,the, cloelaybatwas in .fault butme.
Therefqrer'pare thte =nBient dial,.for pithas.told
the truth evaiy'minnte for :perhaps -aIhundred,
years;. ,and.that ,is,; more; than many men: can
She ,ggghthiin, bythe wrist and threw up his

I ".Remember that we are friends," 'she added,
44 and, that. I -am Ai 'Shore's daughter fg'o
shoot, that 'clock'would seem  like slaying i
friend."  -     . -
" Well, I will compromise with you' said
Stoek*ell. "I will' let drive at',the:key-bole,
instead of at the face; and that, I am sure, 'will
hurt nobody.",     ---
r Margaret, differed with bim " She-was 'boni-
dent it would hurt the peddler. It wassingular
that such afancy should enter his-erratic'head.
The girl kept up her, courageand self-posession.
Gils, standing in the clock,'heard all; butio
great washiafaith'in Margaret, that he had lit-
tle fear of the Onan's threat.
With.a 'mile, she playfully brought the pis
tol to bear upon herself.  -.
" Now, brave Captain, you can fire at the real
offender," she said.-
A It was now Stockwell's tarn to be startled, frn
the.weapon wascocked,. and had -a hair-trigg 4t
set that was very sensitive. " He grew pale, for
he was no ruffian at heart, and entreated her tn
pe careful. -
"I know what fire-arms are," answered Mni-
garet, "and if you will relinquish it, you nei'l
feel no-uneasiness."
"As you will," responded the Captain, brealth-
ing more -freely, and permitting her to take thIt
weapon.
She received it with equanimity, and instanfiy
and-deftly lowered the hammer to the cap,
'  Bravo I" said. the' Lieutenant.' And the
Captain, warmly applauded her skill and col
ness . .         s
"You'remarkedj" said Meg, anxious to get at
the object; of'thls expedition, "that you came
hither at the  nstigation of =my mother. Being
deeply in herconfidence, you need, not fear to
spew freely. Does your coming have reference
to; a deserter. from the Tenth Tennessee, orx to
certain families of Unionists in :this' neighbor-
hood ?"
" First of all,"- answered- Stockwell, ." it has
reference to -a certain peddler, whoI has often
been within 'our lines, with pack on 'back ; but
who, turns out to be. a Federal spy. Secondly,
it concerns-some.deserters scattered along the
river, and. one in particular, from -:the Tenth
Ten nessee.t Thirdly, it':relates to 'the enforce-
mentiofithe conscription;and thereturniof cony.
vale-cent soldiers ,to-s.ertiet So, 'Miss Shore,
you have received.fromme-that which, underno
circumstances; youcould have obtained 'from a
Yankeer- .directeelearanswers to your questions;
for whieh.;youloughetit.be grateful. Butimind
you, my dear, had'your been a'Unionist, I would'
sooner have nailed your pretty ears to the'door.
posttha n to havkeletiouta single grain pfi my
busieess.".m  i  .  (    Vr':. ?f1 i
-Margaretiheard a noise in the eloek.  nee,
fgot, or elbow,. had, touched unwittingly the'
sides of the peddler's narrow prison. Her heart'

.HEi ROUND, PACK.                  ':1


g   A agndpRA   pp a sediitlehits4treak4
,         ppesiitiisthei w ot other iahedksu The.e ,
lat  tAnecsdathis wasy hts thamlpatxd bhsiHeutdnj
ant pricked up his ears. No one questiied'thd
The .girl was aot: antidus to- etirid Of dd
isiko., $    began to think; atd, *ith'thinkh9
lng, she came upon an expedient; but, to Barr
.itst# itwoti d be ;leesafy to leave her. os
near   e ioek. Sheo wanted to des. Black Jacird
Abe:baineydthaainmment'seonversation with
b4it would ,pUtmatters in "A train to send nthe;
aOapn it arid-his ,Aen, scampering away., Shel
;IAN : at the Pale dMl, from which the:eld-'
fashioned black figureerstoo&amp; out like -pot-hooks;
. ani. ramn' el while the iron hands pointeddis-
mally tot   rang bout.: Bobonoldirelie!! Meg
sighed  .se , it lying  brwen it had told the;
truth so' long. It was ike  ray-bearded patti-
arch tui'uing liar at=lastIShe reverenced that'
whieh was old and true ; and thesilent pendulu h
S hd}its esss, w eded more impressive bthe"
peril.o QCiles4  e- ,-
"The brave are frank, I suspect, as well as:
.generous,",she spid, in answer .to the Captain's
oonfidenoe., "ut truly we are ashamed-"to
have you sit at so mean a tables -I know that,
you sans of Mars ,Wnt something to ;wash down:
the dryess or the wettest morsel, Ul=the same."
"An oracle!" cried Stockwell, striking the
table with:his -pwerful fist
"Never tas such sente hedrd' reteted the
lieutenant,, and: his ;comradeb lbo witness to
the samne.
"If youwill excuse me a moment, valorous,
4haptaim, I. will make *i e.deavor to remedy
this parching dryness, and to bring souiewat
that Will sehd you.away is  spiritss"
"Leave us. at :once" so" Stckwell, "and
without ceremony  And hark. you, my nut
brawn maid, bring liberal .ofiringso that we
ata pour out a generous libatlonto'the immortal
gds oaof war."
S "Promise m.e this, that not tiAnan of yon will
a ove while I am absent, to rummage aboutthe
)uitse, as you military creatures: are apt'to di
My mother. would never forgisa you, should
you meddle or make with -anything that per-
tains toher or hers ; and shoai you take away
so much a:the value of a pin, n there spy nor
deserte: would she deliver into: your hand,
thebyot besought herwith teat.".
To judgo of thetiffeetnof- tMeg oratory; one
should have sees   fi r eshetadnrermkably
*ttrotive way of epeaking  R  .attitude,&amp;no
ge eand lid let" a  mAato )hur 'ut ances
*hea.sbe veaild to havd beren and t be po-
tatial.            ..   .;.
"I premise.-fr myself andreomrades;" an-'
swered they Captain, with impatience. "There
ispnobbing Iriluiotrosaise rfayuy ill buthur-
and lag tie h e wial toallay our 'dyig

There  a   iik   ,    laA  th   ?Ortongook.
OGiles hadfl distub edthe steWof tt ;WbhMs,
,fanding up in ath itftpa lt  wle ,dettled,"like
sWarmin .beeblif eI indut ad throat. H d
l ehad a + wiiasstadgtadadhaoeshsed ,o*-
evenginehdiebald notiettirely hate Omthdedd
thabte eougk tutnhefliad'vlil enogh to trbdne
ned tonel dowid, a0 that it wag etit much load-
er than the sigh of love-lorn damsel.'
- To Mrgaret h vgerit, bas as distinet'as a
doublejheaded thanddrholt
For an instant he felt faint and her blood
fiewedibuelIbard with a. giddy sensation.
It :happened that no onet was looking at the
blank- atrisroh  t the time; and there Is- that
-pedliarity in- the 'mindthat makes a sound
=dome framithe diredtlon iu whiehe e is looking.
It was to 'this fact- that fthe  die orwed'bsh
pveer*bion  for several lead that ill-timed
cebugh, but attributed it to one of the two silent
,peesona sitting at the opposite side of the  coiU;
b-t Arom whoin Mirgaret had adroitif lati*
attention. Mr. and Mr&amp;. Croab± had been un-
foticed but not uninterested listenerS and oh-
seoer of that which had passed. Now they
were fill of hope-now they were agitated b7 _
fear ;: but conti tnaily feltnet admiration for
Margaret, whosegent  ;and versatility seetned
h e no end.     Thy inwardly vowed to de
justice to this hitherto-neglected ehild. Mrs.
4rosby beatt te rgard her with the fondness
of a mother. Wildness is sometimes a nianifes'
tation ofeharactei ; fo""'etrsons'efdeeided char-
aste, mubtr beve vent, and cannot sink to the
dead, -dlI;level of feeble Intellects.
Mrs! Crosby reelved this thought into her
mind as shegased wonderingly at the little -fig-
Are of Meg - Shore, which seemed tireless, and
lifted above the weaknesses of girlhood.  he
remembered the fatigues to tvhidh she had-been
exposed the excitelnent serid dangers of the
pat tweird }hbur* dad marteled *rhat miraeld
kept her up. Well, the miracle that kept Meg
up las Fh iip Croby  Love had got mixed up
with- the round pack and the peddler, and all
the events of the Wigst; and where that-element
leaks in, there iseaa to be a great deal said-and
done
Mrs. Crosby followed Meg with her anxious
eyes aorese the ?OOni, until she was hidden in
the labyrinths of the rear of the house.  As
soon as Ma  we  as int the kitchen, She dart-
ed out of hits baebkdoer, and ran toward-the
hickory woo--
Captti Stobkwell ahitfehed eout his Rebel
logs, yawhedithen rft to plag with the hilt
of id adbee-acid tok 4reual g dreanmof Brower
Meg. Aer he had Sotindl lhastlsed the Yan'
hoe invaders, h saidto himself that he would
ret rnto the Forked Deatg nd toabtm 4ea that
had just left him. What a fine thing that would
bet C. ming bak abattrad hero, with lt6rts
of lav"e' clustering thickly on his daunete

1

IM= "k FACR.

ilal; the dan lriev ofo wteh ith       orld .and What wIth)teg) $opl weU was presentlyI
,re    faad i       m                     teseventhhear           tatTe T
arose, and actuallyleane ,against ghe oal -$t glamour, and resolved  ssto    raitrwl evek.the e
hi hls Yhrstra enra &amp; h tsit tii -door, ad fret- was, occasiod. These child'womer 40on1" ind
ing hid aSbre onthe hldikeeddcornices.-Wth out where their strength-lies.
oAybfaritd ii tortliy l4r  it Was a:n iment of  Of a sudden, some  no was heard using
t    as ems gs e,                      outside. The door we burst dpe   and Black
tole, ttio ag l'Toed 'to breathe  e  f   Jkeret                      opnad M       k
WaS , p i  gl me ~ton hitlile very 4oftly, Jack sprang over the t eshold in a great heat
wras rha'b   dalieskhandeither.''and hurry. Hisface             hslarming in its exa-
De   batse, like ahm amgel of reliedt to cover aen.
tie stitidh. Shd broughtin her hand a galon  "Loramity " he cie, "The Fed'rals am
tletnljdhn iand sam tin cuda. IHer appearance comh , liektysplitI Thar's nmore'n a thus ai'
was hailed with acclamations of delight. She of em, riding  reat Northern losses, -a  ouiia'
wit afdtt tled at "seeing the trumpeter braced right up the. riser."
against the all-Important clock, but deemed it  a bean to. shiver, and how his eyes and
Pdentt'mnot to notice the  i-retimstance.  tee4h in.an extretrd'    uyes anern
-he plaed the derijohn and the upsa before  Up  sprang the   onfederate cavalrymen.
Stok     ,w hellwho , i-rec eivin it, 'e4 to 'Pres  There was a simultaneous swash and clatternof
der 'hadi bt Mega ;i ages had a tefauity-of sabres.
gettin- ont of hands that nte did not jike .,  "ti'o horse 1" thundered the Captain. Then
"Order, mehr    -erl' vocire'ratel"the Cap- to Margaret: "One kiss, my pretty maid, and
tale, ard fi e hid 1 ol iwithopt dlay. 4Gen-  ien bot and saddle.'
tietin ," o6th 'he, tw iky is sometimes poi-  He threw his arm around Margaret, bat she
Noned, and 'lims have been lost bydrinkingi. slipped from him with the ease and grace of a
It thin Iestance, hoWeten, you shall incur no fairy.; end empty air the soldier.clasped.
Miak; fdr,'as your leaded, ITWill tike the post of  "Gen'ral Grant and his whole Army's com
anger, as I trust I ever shall,and will try this in', I guess,"-addpd Blaek Jack, with ,hattering
liquor, whether, there he death in' it or no. If teeth. "The Abolitioners'll git hole of us,
there be prussiea acid in it, only your Captain dead sure I Le'megit ip ahind you, Mars'r
glllifit"ll                                  Ca 't. They'll bible yine up 'fore I kin say
With'this thoughtful speech, tokwell drained de or'e    '        sra  g s p
his eup at a gasp, and reilled it in a twinkling,  " Out of ithe way, you black rascal !" retor-
before reliquie  ing hid hold upon the demi- ed Stockwell, hurry ig after his men. " Fare-
wiriki. well, mf thariner "'.'He threw a hasty kiss at
' o rades,",he addbd, with gravity,  kin Margaret. and wa but of the house in a me.
tiyy at Margaret, "it Is satfe  bat ,  wili meant. $h   heard  'im give the order: -" U
umaeratibn. I hate to see men  altae beasts of the river, boys!" and thec lash of their sworos
themselves. Besides, it's a choice brand, and as they mounted. Then there was a rapid hel-
it's iee Weeks old, it it'd  dad!"      .   ter-skeher clatter ot hoofs; and silence foli
bYbung br old," miuttered thy' Lieutenant, lowed,
"gbu'e got you part, Captain." .Ma 'aret shore unlocked the long clock, and
--l under not our tiutage," Adid Margaret, the peddler came out, pale and faint.
looking out of a #ihdow furtively,," for it bath-.
age and flavor, and it equal cannot he found.           ORA   TER   xtyf
in Bayou Bottom."                                            TH POSSE.
The trutmpeter, at sight of the demijohn, had  The Sergeant and his ;band of heroes reached
pressed to the table with his comrades, and Paw-Paw early in the '-morning. Their marsh
there was no Ionger fear that he would meddle had not been. rapid, having halted every il
With the clock.. Te whisky flowed-fast, Co-m  or two to. forage. The oiiet who h d
cdeeate - wit began' to  ooze  and, sparkle. changed the handle of the shears for the hilt 1
Tongues that ha   been silent began to wag. tl  sword,, quietly, and with remarkable fore.
SLips that ere sullen, etiled. Drooping eyes sight,posted     i men in the front dyard, a
'*ere eleetrically uplifted, and a sudden anmha- having property alligned them, he advanced
401 ins-ired te  eb l horsemen.     -    six paces to the front, wound an larumo ontie
fre gallant grew the Uaptain. lHe bitched trumpet  f lis voice, end summoned Joha
S his chair toward Margaret Sore, who, becom- ran to surrender himself and his castle. The
lug seated at lilt iei~est, lsened, to hi. ova,~ lord of te manor set aparing he ordered h'
tions wit tippient interest. iReally, she put trnsty  orporal to dis4hrg  hi musket wr c
da her best lookw, and -filled the gay tbaptamz's he dd in a ser few  minutes.-after  k'ehs
head With falsoies.                         some powderintoa ~e   p4ue, and sa spring
Audi pot is noon boiled, tinde fervid imag. three tie.I may lte anpp e4hs isac
inazion is soon heated. What with thme whisky, a1 l irmg of a gun -produced much consterna

' I
D

:


TH  .:RU    )PACE.
tion in Brant's household, and- that there was Rachel, in his .clothes , The ,boy that. was, de
1if ting of women ed'n breabnn"o'f children ; livered fro' the sack Iyour monstrous saga
hbt so callous had 'that 'family 'become to the city, was no boy at all, but as good a gi a
dangers ofwar, that'it was really some' time ever walked."'
before' a soul appeared.' 'Finally,.a window was  ' Since," replied the Sergeant, with a dis-
thrown up, and' John Brant himself had the dainful flirt of his sword, " I have embarked is
audacity to thrust out his head; otwithstanding military pursuits, I have given some attention
"bits 'of the Corporal's cart'idge werestill smok- to strategy, and I am not a man to be imposed
ing on the ground. 'The 'adventurous' gentle- on by the feigned movements and false fronts
man showing considerable white' drapery, the of the enemy. I would advise you, Sir, not. to
Sergeant 'was forced 'to' the'opidion that he had lower your self-respect by falsehood, for I.as.
answered his imperative sumgpios in his night- sure'you that your character does not stand in
shirt;, and he was at a loss, att first', whether to a favorable light before the country and, this
regard this as a personal insult, or as-an evi- posse militaris.",.1.
dence of extreme 'haste'and trepidation.   - John Brant, though much aroused, assumed
" What is wanted ?" demandedJohn; yawning. a grave manner, and answered :
"Several things,"°answered th'e Sergeant, who  "In good faith, you are well advised in mill.
immediately added, in 't lower toneStand by tary matters ; but let me tell you, Sir, that yon'
me, Corporal."                             remarks respecting my character are very per..
The Corporal grasped his gun as if it was the sonal, 'and I shall demand your f rstmomen i
handle of a cotton-hoe, and advanced to the of relaxation for satisfaction. No doubt,.the Re.
side of his leader.                        public has the first claim upon you ; but lphall
" First'and foremost," said the besieging offi- not forget this 'fling at my respectability, in ai
ecr, standing erect, with sword on shoulder, "'I hurry. You have doubted my word too, il,
demand, dead or alive, the' body of one Philip which is one. of the greatest insults that on,
Crosby, whose escape from this military'-arm of gentleman can offer to another. However, so-u
the service you traitorously and feloniously ing is believing ; and I presume,.if I prodwe
aided."                                    Miss Crosby, you will 'be satisfied."
"' Is it you, Sergeant Shears ?" interrupted  "Should we be satisfied,' Corporal ?" aslti
Brant, with' a contempt that must, 'have' been the Sergeant. ,
quite shocking to' good citizeris' of the young  "I suppose we ought to be, inasmuch as we
Republic. "Hold on a bit [ You can speak left one Rachel at Bayou Bottozn," replied the
better if you sit cross-legged. I'll have the Corporal.
sideboard carried out' directly."            "The Rachel that you saw at Crosby's," re-
"Secondly," continued the Sergeant, redden- sumed Brant, willing to get rid of his vistors on
ing to'the roots of his ears, yet resolved to 'con- the easiest terms, "was a Rachel trumped .up
duct matters with dignity, " I demand the un- for the occasion, and was made up mostly of
conditional su-render of yourself, family, and her brother Phil, who is, by this time, no doubt.
house, and all that pertainsathereto." '   a long way off."
"You have come, I spippose, to take our     Bidg out the girl 1" cried the Corporal.
measures," answered yoh'n Brant; 'but it is  - '"Presently, good fellows,"- replied Brant.
rather early to attend to attend to such matters. "You must give her tine to make her toilet, and
Mrs. Brant and the young  Br'nts have their you perceive, probably, that I must give some
garments made by Wonien-tailbrs; and as for little attendlon to my own. Meantime I will sent}
my black boys, on account pf the loss of some you out something to eat' and drink ; especially
cotton by burning, I- amn not able to give them  todiik.'' drink
new suits."                                  " We shall wait -a reasonable time, and are
"I'eane not here to jest," seid Sergeant lolt. hrpared fr 'any eergencies that may arise.
"I am an Officer of this Confederaaf, obeying Fellow-soldiers, see to your percussions !"
the orders 'of my Colonel; 'and 'it' will prove a  " The last i'mti;, which evinced a high order
serious business enough; I'll wari'ant34qi.' This of military talnt; could have reference, of
military posse will bear 'me witness that I have course, to the' posse only. 'Smiling, Brant with-
summoned you l in -due- form, nnd' 1' wd'sh my drew.' ti half 'an hour, lie  peered on. the
hands' of the consequences: Your blood be steps, holding Rachel Crosby by the 'hand,
uponyour own head"'                      whose'outward-womnan was greatly improved by
'c Stop a moment, Sergeant," said the 'Corpo- the substitution 'of one of Celia's dresses for
ral, in a suppressed tone." "Let 'nerick in a Philip's Rebel gray.       .,
little more powder."                        ""Speak 1'speak1' cried none'individuals who
.' March off with your posse," ordered Brant, had enjojed'migfatin theatre cal benefits.
"or I shall order my retaineis'to fire on you. 'As  John Brant looked eun.ical.  f
for the matter of ailing Phil Crosbyto get away  "'Say wvhat You will,'Miss Crosby. You are
from you,. it is easily explained. It was not before. the curtain, and . the whole' thing ise
Phil that was in the round -pack,' but his sister, farce," he said.

"ir. Sre as old y    the ruth," she sd. I" er cant,",aid t4oppe19i, "I..crave th1e
I was ti  ithe  an of the dlere pack°hp'.    or for the qer, ,"am  then pour
wlaen 7uaein
proyreftlie~tu Qf t  AMmrhon.               oi            ere    ssrathersullenly.
"Biav I bravou1  r nur urIdomei  Is 3ree t                 hnd r k  t  raght
Cferates.                           mr4 i           e geia f ag a  ygiealor. t
t Si1n~ei' thindeed  he  et eart. "'lwen down is throat hke liquid ife. Re 4eg
Have ais   a palaus di                    at   a  y gf .tr, gar edhis lips,'.apd
am 1}no'                                       a     va'l.
The                         a      o ipir                             6 that you
fo Philif               -gr"r'                    .4 ip, but.,unrtu  el  t tl in  e pnrpo
oge ,fhis forags..i atel j            - eranr Qlbri                      ggt-
liant mna ehto Pawa ;an'eit wadi ctt to.l'          lae~o- nil anoment.'OBwqa :
ingne where thgse. threatened  9                   J .o mdes.
49 i e :feqg.. but mir il a   ide  r nount  t      nI- d t e hverngdarrv
9egifmariil ,elxties a,4resoenronelugo a             ay    a   y e ingle to
6.nle.our .  ai , fraa gged o pt        g i      bae etiggi-sgldier;, ' none 30
irons intofiem, insteadof ptj. n  ieg o      a     ,  econegs ons."
pos ,,te~menace would h grb n  iye}."n  gn;o     rr         d fthefjergeant . ra
t .0 o us          d rat r o p is wittip? onor
Areyousafiese  , nopr7  t epante.     t r at p s 9 y 7 ihear no more fro
At int riteal.tie     ard f,                        .ew
Iaring,baske ~an    .    ,was# .  ke 1rc, ' ' t'ify that the in"r-
movement oft #pdesie oht    .    epese1 view was, forthe present  an end. To  e
founded arms w gho rs, m  c e - *tta y.regit, l e. said tolysieg-n and:
heof~tlir leader.  t   '                       o/'r1 ,e.   gh    erIud4 ,ie
cm not:satisf qd a ag  redthe ae rwit q   yg.e gnesy.o ua gu,, ilitou y perQpeg,
a great frown o his forehead  a      urg i;ra       ei 9t p  eg J         a na
y3i thttedoe        ,.',              ' ~     ~4 p4 walredy fallento
that he whle     ttrM     er odves- tooth and nail, and were ehomg  elves ja
.atf6l.out ygur eonnanqeir        e the       " rpe .
aee t  o;  nt have esa..q'nna e seopepsul obpisance, end,
"eshieathed his WQrid,n;foldedis aiS 'reprd d'wihPgi or;g; pr    ieust' ppop,
moodily,.)ut glii face .was. m ally. tnyiied profoundly rebuked by  great warrior.
toward tIi'e'humpers .and' cee,:haunches of '.4sfor Iu1 e p ns,t   ppedilyate~itlfi Alid
met, bottles of wine,most early 'er n dagirn  # ud. a    l wble tgrewge
human. nature. They touoi 'tie :Ieart; they nine men and a sergeant asleep'in te-piantere
soften sthe feelings ; .they gt firen thie1 eye, yaird,
dtda i glow in the stomach.   {1
'Tie Sergeant sighed. Sam brought a ehiir'        C[AP ER,:Q x:    ,
for him. Though a very rigid d ei pIna  no  .      cQT.gMD apu  s.
he found it possible to bend, and sat dog  ks  4t{ed ian,aquadrgof hgree arrived at
almb.    .                              'ParawtQrd. Itdwoapt in p ekwell's de-
'4 Investigate as much as you wil my friend," tacheneit, and was .attended :bythree peonas,
answered Brant, "but e good enough now to whose.ijuesilavf,erenn inion .this giar-
do some honor to my poor cheer. You ,wll rative-Jos Fj e Aaron '=ness,,ad Bene-
find me much at your disposal, anyou r ;dit Vat$ofs., , esehree woi s hadoped.
welcome to all that this disestro1a Swar, li  e ft Stqpll el   . ,ro d ,an  stertained.h'
me. So far as relates to matters persc ial to us, w  sepoteragostwggierul elappa i it
I perhaps ought to .polog;  ad,nac'6t, i hadeen heard since the days of knight-atr
wiil and do retract whatever.1 e4e  id if .a  ogrwe, ioh  bwppuded wa ahie tp ait.a
offensive character. I call on  e pgsse to wit- i  ;s et qus, .appi  ngtni  if
ness that I malehte amends h ble  I.o-        .99,4o o    y,,gaye geha verson .f
fess my i}eustire."                      teradvent s jas bet suited m. Iin  et:a air
Low bowed B'rant. ERchel nt her hand   of lipng  ek o4 d dqyniby: tJceltelro C ty was
kerchief to her lips.  ' aew etie                        gap,.i required .so little
" Sir,'I am'forced to paep1dy *Q ipnigy to'p. PA  l   'gctn    e orii )o
knowledgmient, answered        gah   i   t a s tatoe;  . tge, evalryen sdu d .'
stately  avy.    o .oreiepr  t   t [s ,nderadand        wahbtem to. ;and eps
although I cannotforg et1i(aie  eo're     ' m ey saj e  iswa.. jtos. .'ten. n
aidiio riy command."  :..                had been laugh  to silence,1,l-on  irness
" Sam, pull a cork ' said  gnt-       made knogp  pgiYrnypaes,apd .tald $l emost
Sam plule da corklile.a fh-'rvp1nbeld pi~tifaleUf.wing ad alfei ment. .John
aray B'antwas complamned.of bitterly,.and his chat'


awte put'in the worst poibfId'l ght, When he cotton uroer , too. .t a  . poorhu s, Cap-
same to spedik of the peddler, who had eluoi'it  tain.- ' " weso    .nenn"d the bearing of a
ly relieved hin from  lila'  peiloua siijtition, gentemn, an, t-an su rise'at you, Sir."
kwell and his do iradet were t6Itesieest  "I   i *ob g' .9rdes," said $tockwell, red-
od nd mpde eager inqulties coreeritbig him, dem ng.  "
which it was not in tl 'power of Aaon .to an-  ' . .oyerment tht gives orders 'for the
wanton  atr ltiou of the' pop rt,yof. its citi-
By1 he time the horsemen reached Brait's 'zens, is a'6lawless and desperate Government. A
theyreally distrust d the lfiulty f' ith at'e = GQoverna nt, hoil~d hve at its head pjatiee,
te a, and     r ptred to deal's nnnmrily mod4ra -on, atd morality, but in this new oder
ptcelnann,'andk iren fop' eetha
with him.  Of .the 'escape"if  lipWland 'the' o things, I look n van fr either-"
pursuit in the 'vbode, Ston1well"oduld' 'ilak"e "X'am but an initrante t," hammered Stock'
nuoti  ' intaigie2.sf~iced W'ab'the s' &amp;atte 's wel,..  ..;            ,--
description was, with thefslang ofth e6 it:-pt.  ' "An, instrument of dishonor ."  retorted
t   gal18ed'tho hbrievnen' and  ohthis:ocea- Brant;  I would not be such an instrument.
sion' ohn f3rant 'hht a 'different.: man to dIeal Pd sooner be the at's paw that scratches the
with than'Sergeant Holt.' Disinoelntin, toek- hot eestguts from the fire Tou cannot bur
well began to talk 4vith' the blabtks, 4 h6were my cotton, $ir -
loitering aboutithe' etablet buth e 're not  '"Such are my in tructions. Nor is this 611,
disposed"to ' eonyersatibi,'and seoo  shied sbff. I am comm ided'not only to destroy your 49,-
Out'cam'e Jo1in'Brunt,'ain' saluted hlu vist6rs ton, but to take such horses for Governmept rse
with courteous dignity; 'ut Stbekwell tn't him 'as you .nht lave'i n  ourstables."-h
with distrust'; and received 'his advances with" An ting, more I   asked Brant    is eyes
coldeah.                                    beginnen   ofls'threat nngljy       .
'iiave heard' f' m thee, gentlerep   id   "    is Auehii ore, said the Catain. "If
he, gtaneing at 'thO tqua terms, :"thatY your eon- you res  to t ou into custody and 'carry
duet has been trea n ble, aid that fqW have fout   a, a,-an ters, therr to be disposed' of as
persted known riendsand a          of the' evidence Bm i.a re                e    e
Confederaey."        Je'henage                       ma   idaeacoi  oad"reached     e
"First, Sirinform me to whattientlemen 'you ground sbon' after his master, drew neaer, and
refer; fir, upon'mtolonor,"I'Ma ne' ee nond," looked athim aiouesly. Brant nodded to him.
eni ered Bradt1'i king'abnut with' much in- 'A imment aft'ter a bell was runi e1.
{ F, '       '''''     '"       '    ' V'hat's tliat 'for p"'- iquii'ed Stockwell.
terest.                                            a :             quie        r   .,-
"b'shee'are thoe.sa e nettle ien,   t"    Bant smilda, but'did 'not answer.
said" tceco ti       t Be    ad '          "  kih take ye to th~at e  cotton," said Ben
"s"''""W                                 ttoros '' Pull in' h       racese, if I can't "'
"Gentlemen-squatters,.are they Y" returned'   D'on't 'iidl6  e 'with your neihbor s affairs,
the planter. '"i. .tley sae ,the gentlemen of observedBrant, warraimigly. "2N«o good cores
these parts, Heaven'save th4 others I These, of'rhedthing."
Sir,are some of the'drift Abd'riff raff of Southern  'fIeep'aer own  orner .o' the pit ." replied
sooty 'updjt is'thoight: a, disgree for 'th9 ,Benibisthing.  I  look out for' myself, and
true gentlemen 'to :miiigle 'with themh."' Kick you look out for yourself. Jump and strike as
tien' out of your  company;'Captain;"doff saddle' often as your re a mind t'o. " ii fight ye on.mv, l
and 'bridle, add take such cheer'as I-cni offet.""' own heel's, of with gaffs. Knock my wattles, if
"Yonr hospitable offer I cannot accept," said I wontl 'I'll a tartar, I be, with a sprinklin' o' 1
the Captain',stify.; "I ;am here to execute the Derby.!'
orders'of my Go4ernment ; 'and, however pain  Watrous 'thrusi his hands into his ragged
fil'the duty, the:true soldier knows 'tho isw but poekets,'agged his' head gamely, and" prudent-
obedience."      '''       'ly fell bacck a litgle toward the soldiers.               .
"And' pray, Sir, if I may be '. 'bold,'whait  " If some of ny boys were present, I would
particular duty brings you here, and how 'eam it have a ome of youifellows'thrown into the Forked
affect me t"aasked 'Jh-n' Bradt, sharply, for hbe Deer !I' said Brant, turning his back upon the
was Igeltfig ti-ed di'acting the lamb.'"' ''  squatters. " YoIuare loud crowers, but poor
"it has'tjean rumored, Sir, at Head-quarters, fighters." Then to Stockwell: '.Captain, you
that large quantities' of cotton' have been con- keep choice company. Al to the matter of my
pealed bf you, in defiande of theyedict, of Jeffer-' horses,,IthinIk shall have to disappoint ypur
son Davis, and of the spirit of this'Governnent.' ambition'soinewiat; a circumstance that you
Also, that you resisted, -byforo 'of a nrms, the will' regret, *hen I inform you that some of my
burning of said dotton, in two or more instances.", nags' are worth three thousand dollars apiece;
Stoekwell paused.                           and there is one that I would not sell for five.
Brant drew up his person haughtily.       My ponies, Sir, are fit to.bear a prince."
"So, Sir, you are a cotton-burner !" he ex-  "On your account, Mr. Brant, I am  sorry
claimed. "And all these men With you are that my orders are unconditional," answered

THE ROt
diekwell, coldly. " Saddles, boysesaddles I"'
"Better mount'the coek-fighter 'blliind you,
Captain " 'sheered Brant. '"He's a pretty
chicken, indeed I"-
" Come, now, don't you drop your widge, and
make up legs to me in that yer'way I" ,menacedd
Watrous.- ' "I'm as game'and clean-built as youn
be, anyday in the week  N No foul feathers in
me, I kin tell ye i 'Cause you hopped onto me
once, then l's moultin', and took me to'a -dis,
advantage, it's no sign  ou can do 'it 'ag'in.
Been eatin' hempseed, Ihave; and if you'll;4est
come out'a one  side, I'll= have my spurs .under
yer wings 'fore ye know it."
Captain Stockwell mountedd, and'gathered up
the flowing reine,
" Young man," said Brant, impressively, "let
me give you a- bit of advice. Touch not my
cotton; touch not my horses; touch' not me t"
The planter stood straight and firm, and
strong,'-and confident Ii himself. "He looked
full -of energy and resolution.  With all his
muscle and manhood, he was not one to' be
lightly encountered.-
"You have some fine-looking fellows, and it
is a pity that you should lead them on such an
errand," he added. "As sere aS jou live, some
of those saddles will be; emptie  If you .im-
agine that I will allow a bale 'of mn cotton to
be destroyed;'you delude yourself. You will be
stoutly resisted."  -I
" If that be' the case," interposed the Lieuteu-
a't, addressing the Captain, "we had better take
him into custody now. It will-be safest to take
him along with us.':
416 The man who attempts to take me, dies !"
said Brant, determinedly. And retreating into
thit yard, he closed the gate."
' "Better out with your'pistols'and fire at him,"
suggested' Aaron Furness, whose throat'was still
swollen from the effects of his recent hanging.,
"lie played me the devil's own game, and'I'll
have satisfaction, sooner or latter. ' If I don't
p4 t a brand to his bales, it'll -be''ause I can't ;1
and if I don't touch off his house, some time,
it'll be teause I've' forgot an injury." '
"Here, you cock-fighting man, lead the way
as fast as your legs can carry you !" cried Stock-4
well. " As for you, John Brant, sta where you
are, and make no resistance. 'I shall leave half
a dozen men to" look after the stables; and see
that the horses are not spiited'away."'
BentWatrous and Aaron' Furness 'put them-
selves at the head of the detachment, and started. '1
off with alacerity, bent on migehief.- Brat went.
Into the 'house, armed hinisel' with his favorite
rifle, kissed Celia, went out tit the baek-door,atzdt
found 'Jack holding Spitfire ready for him toi
mount.                       ''''~
Jackc was not unprovided for,' but ori this oc-
casion rode Peppercorn--a fiery little horse of i
great speed and endurance.
" Well,-Jack, how goes it ?" inquired Brant.

Sl: PACK.                                67
"All right, Mars'r John. Took 'em -all out
by the .bok door. Not a' nag in the stable.
Sam, Asnd Dick, and the stable-boys am half way
to Crosby's'with 'em by this yer time. Didn't
git home none too soon, did I?"
"Not a minute, Jackl Ride softly till we are
away from the house a little."
"Fact is, Mars'r John, I should run away
long ago, if I'd thought you could got 'long
'thout me; but I knowed you couldn't.    I
knowed you couldn't, and that yer's' as true's
the Lor's r'rar !" said the negro, thoughtfully.
"'It's- a good deal so, Jack. I don't know
whether to give gyo' 'our freedom, or to buy
mine of you. One of us ought to'sell out, I
think."
"That's so I that's so 1" said Jack, grinning.
"The boys are on hand, I suppose ?" added
the master.
"They're alive 'for fan. Yo  ma bet
money on that yer I Do you s'peet they'll burn
it, Mars'r John ?"
"Not while I'in'alive, Jack. He who touches
my property touches my life. One's substance
is what gives him existence and consequence in
the world. 'I'll' eight for my own I" answered
the planter, resolutely.
"That fer' sounds right, Mars'r John. A
pusson wouldn't be nobody if he hadn't coffin.
To stroyy property is right down sinful."
"Ride faster'nowJack We'lltake the short-
est cut; and shall reach the place fifteen minutes
before they do. They'll find it a hard road to
travel."
"A 'soft road, Mak'e'r John; a * soft road !
They can't ride into'the swamp ; have to leave
their horses at the edge of it, quarter a mile off,
and poke 'aloiig through the mud and water.
Thar'll be some sw'ariri', I s'-pect."
"We'll send round, a few fellows to cut their
horses loose and drive them 'way," said Brant.
"They' won't leave'more that two or three men
to look after, and some of our boys,'you know,
are ekeelent 'marksmen:"
In this kind of discounse,aster and man rode
toward :the secret deposit of cotton, receding
gradually froni the river, and keeping well up
on the higher ground, and avoiding the treach-
erous bottom-land.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
COTTON-BURNING.
Having gone a considerable distance on the
upland,Brant turned to the right, and rode down
toward' a s*amvp by at narrow path, which had
been made practicable to the foot of horse b
the labo  of claves. This was a secret ay
which' the egatters, pith all their inquisitive-"
less, had not' discovered. When within a few
rods Of the deposit, the planter and Jack dis-
mounted, and leading their animals to a little
glade, fastened them.
" Mars'r John," said Jacks "Missis seems

I


A6                              -THE ROUND PAGE.
might low-sperrited, lately. &amp;m he says that-said, impressively.  "There's a good time
thar yer witoh, Ann Shore, hars-been up .yer and scowia'. =t'feel =it'riu my hone  But-'you look
worritted her."                             out for pisoiers If thar's something' youkin-do
"oIt is tre,1c,.answered Brant, thought, sand say for her, jest you do and say:that yer."
fully  "Celia received a terrible choek last .Brant reddene4 aonewbat, and turned.embar-
night. I wish theboys had'thrown tie hag in- rassed from J4's steady ele , honestgase.
to the rivr, "Oh, lars'r, :if :you'd, only ;jest do -right !
"Sama rhertells me they wargoingto pup on Thar wouldn't e no sih pnan in all theseyer
her  but Missis she sent out word as how they parts, if you'd'only do right."
mustn't ; 'and hso hey lidgt.  i ithik she's  -a  ragt walked slqwlypn,.with his head down.
good Qhristian wopsu, is-Missis;but.thar's.sum-  -" You am a born gentleman, Mars'r John,,ad
mat in her eye that's mighty mournfil,. Could wouldn'tt no.more tell=a lie than yo'd..set-the
not help ioticin' it when ,Igeed her4o-day.. ,atablesaIre,.and yet you are aetin'a~he allthe
'Fears like you'd'hLener iiteh'er ra'rJohn.' time.'
John Brant stopped end ln editor Jack with  Not.a wordsplke .=ra t.
a startled look.                             "Forgive me, Mars'r, but Isve, said it, and
"What dQeyou mean?",ke9exlaimed. " peak wo w'w ;done. Missis :is an -angel, and you'll
to me, Jack I                             feel kdreful lf -sheabould go oad =throwzheraelf
"I doesn't want to"trude, nor putmyself~for away. ,:Amgd then thar'a them little-chillen'l"1
rard .Mars'r,".answeredJack, re pqeetfully, " but . ,.John.B ant.sivered,
there war des p'n  n issist=face today. True ",oure a good fellow,, Jaok 1" he-said, with-
as the Lor's Pra'r, she have made il her mind -emotion. " Really,,you-are the most 'faithful
that tbar's netlin in this~yer .wprl':worth living friend .,have."
for."                                         " Thar's one faithfuller, andthat'aMiaass,": an-
"Do you think so, mpg9;4, fellow ?" asked swered Jaeb, with- fervor.
Brant, relectively. "-What, do you asippoae  , By  is ,time  bey= had -reached the hidden
Ann told her?" etoreS. -cotton. -There -wasa .large 'quantity
"You know well 'nqugh, Mars'r.John,"'an- of; the prieious fibre, protested from-the weathm-
swered Jao, pliuking his head protes.ingly. er ly- elight;roofing .pf boards. It was worth
" Thar's summat goawing-at her heart, and yqu iany thppsaq4s-of dollars., To burn: it, would
won't take.it away  "I warn 9,lar'rthataehe be an act of vandalism. Twentyinegroes, va-
won't etan' it mucliloiger.  lhelooks;jest like. iouslrarzed, ere.awaitinghsarrival. Some
Jule did afore she' flng herself into the ver.' ,had pistols, others- guns. . ;Theywere.-=eagerfor.
"JYou make me uneasy," mutter-ed Brist. 'a ,calisio  wihthe eotten.burners. Braat
"I know tlhere.seems- tobe something rotten looked at them  with satisfaction. -He -went
somewhere; but how csn Ibjpgit?, n,4  $lhe arnong them and placed them    to -his mind,
told her some hard -tldg, and dropped .amse ,charging them, to .hold their=-fre till be gave the
d  a-   s      ate that ;wersconfoundedly word. This attended to, the  lanter. took his
alarming. Jack, you've got.a damned unhappy -station.a littlein- frout, with  aoa at his:side.
master "                    --   Heleane'i against wbale-a fe . minutes, -chang.
Master and map hooked at'eaeh other. .Mok ing-hisposture uneasily.
was dismal enough. He rotatedhishead soleign.- "Jack," he said, presently, "I'm nervous
ly, and aid e.                          about 1elia. Perhaps you had better ride home
"V  rfu ori"r,  ars~r I If ; d no wed wit . as fast a yoncan."
to do, rI'd stop it right away.".h             Per'ap  y -ead, Mars'r John; but I'd like.to
"I believe you, boy 1" answered Brant,earn- see how this yer-,thing comes .out. -.'s 'fraid
'atly.  "You see there's .ben some do        u'lgit rigtin the way o'.the gunsif I-go
thrown upon -my-claim to this propert yand -way. You never was-'feared o',noffiu."
which cannot be made entirely clear without   "Well, whatwould you, do, if you stay ?"
the evidence of a man who left this country  ';I eom ld sttap' afore .ye, Mara'r John,". an-
long ago, and-hole robabl   4ead    o It would swered iach}n ase  du d tone. \:  Tenx
"   e a serious o    Jrok , ,to- be warned off my.  John Brait; turned..aw ay ishead. -iTho nest
be    eius        a'      ge     f.apentimebe Eksd ,at Jackhis :Jee. was -very
own .estate. But that. old, eiebel ,eta woman t  r helaedJak     is-fae   asvr
mad threa.    hi     I     far that she lias frien ybut .aolemn. withal. ..Perhaps ihe, had
adoehratsf certain,    r    ich oihttobe beefpgi;.ng of something,; perhaps his::bet-
otsesshnds e       ap        -            ter sure, iad been quickened ; -:perhapshe
Instantly Jack; thought-of the -paocet==whioh thoughtr bet oW   pfmbla Wnture.; perhaps mlGia
the peddlerhad given him, and.,nstipetively beget.iOvieq-iaO   iheasrt; perhnpa.theisn-
.lappedhis hand to his breast-tosee if- it were tions of the world were less in his head. ;There
safe. It was there,.and his heartbeat fast when ine knowing,; and so we willleaveaMoneeture
he thought of the whispered words of:the man- alone.  .
who hat intrusted it to hiskeeping.       "Do as you will, Jack,"-he sai4, iby and-by.
" Mars'r John,i-don't you never -despa'r !"-:he "eIt was -you who suggested t hedanger, and

.'HE ROUND PACE.                                   66
deme day-be somethingfin it. Y'o mikht take dropped their tprehee  Stockwel precipitately
seouple of boys, ite round the swamp, stim- retreated behind a tree, and~slgr fishing became
pede the cotton-burners' horses, and thea hoine general.
is soon as Pmlopercen can carry you;. or you  " Now, Joak," said Brant, "do go I See
may omit stampedidg, the horses, and' let-the about stampeding ithe horses; and ride home So
others go-"      -             .            your-istrea"
"Promise me that-yqu'il keep alind' the cot- -hile the planter was speaking, Jack end-
tan, Mars'r, 'when the fiririu'begns, dnd'I'i off." desly threw himself-beforehim, and received a
Jack looked at- his-maister with a rery honest 'bulletmie his breast,. The fact was, he had sees
end earnestfface.                           at-ous airing at his master, and this move-
"'What if I' were killed, Jack? It would mentwas to save him.
onlybreak ypur, ebain," said the planter, ab- "My  poo  Jak " cried: Trant, greatly
-                                     shpo ed, "you are hit!"
aI donut want it broke in that way, Mars'r -"it, but not, hurt,. Mars'r 4ohn. I've got
,kin.- God forbid! You and I has got 'long suinmat in here that -saved me. It may be a
well together, and I.should go a good Ways to pack o' keerds,.or it may be a pra'r-book."
find a better friend'  That wouldn't;neverido."'  Jack tapped' himself,. oi the breast, and
" I shall- believe yon. Hark! Here they laughed'joyously. It did John good to hear
some -!,'."him laugh. Then, with hip eyes blazing with a
"-So they be t, I can hear 'em- sploshin' in desiref.or vengeance, the plaster dashed toward
the -mud. They'll wantsome dry stockin's, I thequarter wlaepoe the shot:eamne, raised his «i-
guess.  Wonder if them- squatter-fellows '11 fIe and fired. Be was back to his place in a
show their heads?"                         moment, with. a calmer face. In reply to the
" No ; they'll keep behind, I am afraid; but questioning look ef 4ack, he briefly said:
they'll be attended to. I don't think they'll do  "Be's got it-"
much more mischief in this neighborhood;     "Now I'm satisfied !" muttered Jack. "I'm
There's no need- to say much to the boys about qff quicker'n. lightain' I The'Jeff Davis fellers
'm, for they've made up their minds." cant, stan' this. yer,. and what's the use their
A bullet whistled over Jack'c head. John shootin' into. the cotton-? They're 'ginnin' to
Brant stretched out his hand, and drew him be- fall hack, and they mausn't hev a hose to rik.
hind a- bale.                              Take car' yerself, Mars'r John, for the sake e'
,It's begun," he said, "and without ajpar- Mis 1"
Icy."                         Athut   PrMisn.
A   y ran Jaak.  ,e sprang upon Peppar-
"'-hateome'from one o' them Ter squatters," corn, and followed by three other mounted
replied Jack. "'The troopers wouldn't begin in blacks, scampered of at a break-neck pate.
tha wa."But he cared nothing, for neck, for, toqumyte leis
Very oon faces appeared auwngthe trees all own language;"mugges was drefful cheap +"
and tre fr      Cy ireae         number, On the margin of t11 swamp he, met the peA-
and rewnearr,"-Captain Stockwell thee ad- 'dier,, hiding Clf per.
vmneed, followed by three men with dine torches.- "Where are you going? ' asked. Giles.
One ofthe men was Aaron -'nruese, who was  "To out loose the.Fl'ederate hoses, and then
going to make good his threat. The Captain backto the house ; for ram ' armed 'bout Minis,
a!    5drtsi --r when     nt stepped into who pears strange le    An    h   com  u
youn las' night and tuIe her a terrible mess a'
I- tn here, Cdptain, to fulfill tng promise, stmu, whiehisS p ut her nig  of' crazy. She
he h     hat touches fire t4may cotton will4thueateneI hted righthad,ajd I'mcl'ar gone
seven' liftlbraa, again! ' ry it, at your per'e I" scared least' slie- should, go an d fling herself int.
Stockwell res brave ;, but.he stoodstill. -'He the water."
did not meat to abandon the iincerdkig, and  "If Ana Sho'e has been there, there is in'
a       etheonsequecesnofa   sness. The deed danger" answered Giles, lusingly. "Nev..
siuain uas pleasant. His thmi'eo incendims. ci. mind about the horses; I. will go with these
tiew stood a few paces i the rear, swingihg,their boys and attend to that matter. I'll warrant
blaming fagots. There was silebee on both sides. gou tbat they aaal not have, a horse to 'de
But negroe. are-impulsive. Like ehldira , they mistrusted their errand, andt I heard the firing
ire- carried-away by-the feelings of the moment. sone time agg. Your 'atarm  was prophetic,
Their dislike of the cotton-burners'was very in- Jack, fo a thousand ederal horse and a large
tense, and the offer of free papers would carce- body of inmfaniryare at hand. They are ma 'ceh-
ty have tempted them to forego the opgortunity ing toward Corinth. Not- one of these cotton.
of vengeance that was now presented        burners will escape.  In half an hour they will
Aaron Furness made a single step forward, be in the hands of the National troops. Ride
iut of mere bravado; and that step proved fa- for life, my, worthy friend, and place that pac.
Wa6ohim. The negroes fired. Furness fell on ket in the Lands of Mrs. Brant. It will cure all
his face, and the other two were wounded, and her troubles. I intended to have kent it till

l;


T~W'~QiJ~fl ~ASL                        71

TJIJj ROU TD PAQ1,

another emergency should have arisen; but the"
tne has alrcudy conie fugan tdjustynent. 'With
tthose papers' in 'hck' possession, she can' defy
Ann Shore and all her enemies. They.egtab-
lish, her husband'ss claim to his estate; they
prove that she has been a free woman for many
years, and render valid her marriage with'John
Brant.". -..
" Ob, Mars'r Peddler'!" 'cried Jack, 'overpow-
ered with-'emotion.- " That yer is 'sweeter ,nor
the Lor's Pra'r' I never 'War so happy in all,
my life. Loramity !"
"4Tell-ber to accept this from Richard Shore,"
added the peddler. " Within' it is one paper
that'belongs to my niece, gIargaret Shore, who
is iot :the ndaughter-of Ann Shor. That'pa-
per establishes thar right to 'certain estates in-
herited  from' her anotherr,' my  sister'.'"'Ann
Shore is baffled. Her 'malice is disarmed; This
is all,, Jack. - God 'speed - you; good fellow!
When I am next heardfromiIt will'be from the.
fr ont of battle., The good horse"Clipper I will
keep for your master's sake."'- -
He waved. his hand to Tack, *ho, thrilling to
the ends.of his fingers and toes, touched Pep-'
percorn with his heels, and shot away like the
wind.
Arrived at the house, 'he'sprang up the 'stairs,
three steps at a ti' le,'to Ml-..Brant's cliatiber.
He knocked: There Was no answer, "He knock-
ed louder. A faint voice asked':
"Is that you, Jack ?"
It was Celia who spoke.
"Yes, Missis. - Let me in."
"Not now,' Jack ; I'm busy. Come up in
b.lf an hour."
"No, no! -fI must see ye no*," urged Jaek.
,ie looked through the key-hole,and saw her
sitting at a table with a vial-in her 'hnd, and a
letter lying before her. She was pale assnow.
Jaik put his shoulder to lie door and' burst it
open. He ran to'her; he caught her' by the
waist; he siistnhed the vial' from' her fingers,
anI dashed it through the window.
"4Oh, Missis,-it' airm by the'to''s lmercy tibt
I'n come  I 'knowed yonu'd' be 'd in  omethin'
dreffuh Hey ye token' ally of that treTell
me the truff."                '
Jack clasped his hands, and stood before ier
entreatingly. It wis very touahiilg to ee iim.
Celia shook her head; and silda       The
devotion of the faithful black affecterdiber.'
"Thank' the Lor'1" lie eeclaiwed,'with real
fervor. . "l's ,,afeared "tas 'dto  late; 'but I'm
here, Missis, and I'They brung A dodtor'. And
sich a doctor you never see! 'A doctor that'll
sure all-your' aches and pains, and all thre grief
you over hadin this 'yer lower world !"
Jack's eyes rolled with' delight. He' drew the
packet from  beneath his shirt, and placed it
carefully in Celia's passive hand.
" That am th 'Doctor, Missis, and it came
from" Richard Shore."

"From Riehard Shore!". she, nlr mured, the
blood rushing to her face -suddenly.  The
'man Jak, who onge-   .-
' bu) he don't nowl' interrupted Jack, rub-
bing his hands together.  Nobpy, owns ye
now. Here's the freedom papers, in, yer ; and
he told me to tell yothat you war free when you
married Mars'r, and, had been ever since you
was a chile. He knowa, issis, kae le was the
man'. -He had good many slaves,. but he let
'em all, go, and that's whythey, pushed him out
the kentry and 'wouldn't'guy him no peace no-
whar. '0  Missis, you're, gom' -into a dead
faint ! Here's the smellig'Tbottle; take a good
snuff 'at 'it. t oramity - Yu's -wiltin' right
away. Now ddn't       '        Hde
Jack bestirred himisel' briskly  He drenched
Mrs. 'Brant ;with salts, an4hllsteired her nose
with aminonia.  He'did everything that he
could' think of, and; more:than? was' profitable
for her recovery. Happiness made her dizzy
and faint, and it way; sometime before she cold
speak.. 'She opened the packet and looked over
the papers with trembling hands and palpitat-
mg heart., She found them as Jack bad, repre-
sented. Her' cup of joy was full.  She was
free, her children were Iegitimate. . John Brant
was her husband, and .Ann Shore, but a false
croaker. Behind her , as,srrow :.before her
was peace. No more phantoms for. CeliaBrant:
no more seeking for death. She made silent
raersforRichard.Shore, and heartily rejoiced
d tie good fortune of' Margaret.
" should like to gee ,RichardShore, Jack ?"
she saridwhen she hadkgrown calm enough to
converse.-                             .
'Don't believe you'll see him .till avter.'the
war," answered Jack, thoughtfully. ." aid be
wa' going' to the battle; Lorawity, how, he'll
fi ht! - You see, Missjs,-he was used bad, was
'arr.rhore, and paredd like it soured him."
"No wonder; for the mob forced. himn  to
leave Tennesaee, by' steajtbin the night. He
cannot'but'be bitter toward those wlor forced
him from 'his homg. .Imustlave to thank
hi-                   ai               -.
Just then the lare;of a trumpet reached their
ears.
"The Federal boss!   The   federal hoss I"
cried Black Jaok, trapuphantly. , The sound
of that 'er horn' goes right to my, marrerl --If
'twasn't for you,,and ars'r,;.and tlze, bosses,
and he hillen,'d go and 'at soquick 'twould
make your ;head swim. Oh, Lor', wouldn't I
igh't them yer 1abs) , If Mars'r Linkum would
only'say to the cullud folks, 'Up and at 'eml'
what a tine there'd be 'mopg the cotton-plant-
ers., Now, I say,'issis, that "a slavecan load
and fire 4est as fas and jest as. straight as a
free man. Why can't they ? Haven't they got
hands , Ha'n't they been trained all their lives
to use 'em ? Tougher nor the white is the black
man. His muskles is hard with work, and he

dont e* a"ffin forie aJir ate,;The.in can't
bur' i bitn, ,the: raig can't i et   tb ?nA "t
p'ison:of the swamps can't khlhij  t  e guA
andsktbhgonet heavier :, .a4*a pla taona-Jpe?,
Can't;heswjngda :aabrp. as :eans'a)iekin ,ug
th~yentDonthetgo fr tllber~y            e
does, true as the Lor'aRraat 'lr i;.) ,
" Do you want yquaikaibty, Jack ?"
Jack sighed, shook his head, and looked down
at his brogans in profound meditation.
" I guess, Missis, to tell'the truff, we should
all like to hey the freedom. Fact is, should
like to hey it by me, if I didn't never want to
use it. Now that yer is the whole story."
"You shall have your freedom, Jack," said
Mrs. Brant, impressively. " You are free from
this instant. Your papers shall be made out
this very dny."
"Thank ye, Missis, ten thousand' times t But
'twon't make so much dif'rence to me as it does
to some others ; for you know I could run away
anytime on one o' Mars'r's bosses, and the deb-
ble couldn't ketch me. I stays kase I likes to,
and don't take to my heels kase I s'pect liberty
is coming' here to save us runnin' for't."
They were interrupted at this point by the
hurried entrance of Brant.
" The cotton-burners are taken, Celia !" he
exclaimed. The Federal cavalry has nabbed
them, man and horse, and some of our squatter
pests have got their deserts. Our black boys
had a special grudge against them. Ben Wat-
rous may recover, but he has lost an eye, at all
events. His two comrades, Thorne and Furness,
will never enter cock-pit again. The best of
all is, that the cotton is saved."
" Not the best of all, Mars'r John, not the
best of all !" said Jack, pointing to the papers
on the table. "Thar's some papers that the
paddler-man gave me, which is better than the
best."
Celia gathered them  up, and placed them in
John Brant's hands, who, at first, could look at
nothing but her sparkling eyes.
" From Richard Shore 1" she said, her cheeks
pushing.
"Richard Shore I" repeated Brant, greatly
surprised.
" The hero of the Round Pack," added Celia.
"And of the Black Swamp," said Jack.
Brant glanced from one to the other, then at
the papers. His countenance changed.
"Safe, safe I" he cried. "From  my heart
and soul, dear Celia, I am glad of this. Now
there is nothing to trouble you. You will be
happy, I am sure."
Brant's eyes happened to rest on the shat:-
tered pane through which Jack had thrown the
vial.
" Just in time, Mars'r I" said Jack, with a sig-
nificant motion of the head." " These yer
papers wouldn't done no good in a little
while."

N "   mray good girl," qpoth John, seizing
Ceiabt eaistihnd waltzing her around the
rQon   9at distrabted 'esnh t o niore drop
'lag 9 the 'eyes,  Ato'e gi-eeti and yellow
r elneol . As for this infprnl Rebellion,' let
Sus sn  our{ fingers at.:it and'go in for the
," eid 'M;is. rant " I noticed i
opening gat a1alret,  th thi risar a small
hole through the parchment envelope and one
or two of the papers. What caused it?"
" A bullet," answered Brant. " It probably
would have lodged here somewhere"-he put
his hand to his breast-" had not this silly Jack
sprung before me, and caught it. The pncket
saved his life."
"And mine, too, I think I" said Celia, gravely.
John Brant drew her closer to him.
"I have promised him   his freedom," she
added.
" And. I confirm the promise ; and I will do
more for Jack than that. So Meg Shore turns
out to be rich. I am really glad.- I must go
home with Rachel, by and by, and tell Margaret
of her good fortune. She and Phil will make a
match some day, if he don't get killed or
hanged. A rash fellow is Phil. You and I will
go to the wedding, Celia--when it takes pines!
But this Richard Shore; this Giles ; this peddle e i
I am sorry I let him slip away. If I'd mis-
trusted who he was, I'd had him here, if I'd
been obliged to bring him by force. I owe
that man no ordinary debt. I thought he was
a sinister, misanthropic dog, at first, but he has
the ring of the true metal."
" Said he'd take proper good care o' Clipper,
Mars'r John," said Jack.
" He's welcome to all the horses in my stable,"
replied Brant, with emphasis. "But he's got
a devil of an aunt ! .Now, Celia, for some din-
ner, and a friendly clinking of glasses with the
Yankee Colonel.   Look out of the window,
wife! There flaunts the old flag. Upon my
soul, I like it ! I can't help liking it. I doubt
whether there's a Secessionist in the whole coun-
try who does not secretly respect it. Perhaps I
shall die for it, after all.
John Brant gazed earnestly at the Federal
banner. His eyes grew watery. He was think-
ing of history and of the gaping -wounds which
Liberty had received; Celia leaned heavily on
his breast, and he heard a low sobbing.
"Jack, my good fellow, go -out and declare a
holiday for the boys. Let no work be done for
forty-eight hours. Celia, we will take gallant
gallop, to-morrow, with Spitfire and Pepper-
corn."
And so they walked out on the balcony;
hand-in-hand. The Federal cavalry seeing the
planter and his wife, cheered them till they
were hoarse.
There was good fare that day for those brave
fellows ; and those of them who survive the

71


721'k~ EO %~PA:
gra  atlso    h ~otai ' fit, dill   ee ioiid jiaok, bora uofthe4 ahonldeij of jRih
warmly of their treatme~n t1-aw  l'~*ord:  Sor;-but,6  ~ea1~i  ra  algt
Soklladh.reeiooit, ' ishb e 8,   oa'm   ' any   i iw hie+ poolket and ai
to(niro, the ll"o  ,  ,, Y~Pl ip ( m o*''es'j onhIi shoulders:- Nobody:khdw*ar
to ( aitthee  a fp o  iu  *b  ' _  We " ind ' is  htthdl6Sidtor- i'gSFet;, but the. poisoii that=
inteii i      at~iofor t i otl5 r4'*k     er t rih on' that eventfulmih
Pread duethat ~inspro the humafl hea t. still framts, in hi ibiod:
IIw~i t tme'b  i1eh1  l*     iii ho".

FREDERIC A. fBR A DY,
Publisher &amp; Bookseller, i
No. 22 ANN STREET, New-York,
Gives prompt and particular attention to the immediate execution of every order
which may be entrusted to his care, and the same forwarded, by mail or express, o4
the day it is received.
Raving full and complete arrangements for that purpose, he is prepared to furnibA
Any Book, no matter by whom published, at the
Publishers' Lowest Cash Prices.
BOOKSELLERS, COUNTRY MERCHANTS, CANVASSERS, PEDLARS, NEWS-AGENTS &amp;04
in any part of the United States, will find that by sending their orders DIRECT To
ME that the same will be as expeditiously and carefully attended to as if they
were in New-York City themselves, as my business is entirely 'and always under
my personal supervision.
ag- All Orders for my Publications should be sent to me direct to prevent delay.
PRINTS, MAPS, PLAYING-CARDS,
.Al11        ncle .d  Of Stctioneryr, cfcc., cfcc.,
Will be purchased for my customers, carefully packed and Sent with their orders
for books
i Seno rash Orders to
FREDERIC A. BRADY,
f asker &amp;      $ookj      e,

6       1~iii.~   4.AA&amp;  ~ e  ~ r

A

Y


FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE OF POPULAR BOOKS.

FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE OF POPULAR BOOKS.

MRS. GORE'S NOVELS.
Cecil; or, The Adventures of a Coxcomb.
-Price 50 Cents.
Mns. GonE, the authoress, combines moral in-
struction with pleasing romance in this interest-
ing tale.--Scottish American.
Cecil is fully equal to the former productions
of the same writer, and is decidedly a book for
our homes ; chaste and delightful.-N. Y. Era.
Mothers and Daughters.-Price 50 Cents.
Of this latest-production of this talented au-
thoress, we can only say, that; Jkerher previous-
works, it is a pleasing and delightful romance,
a book of charming sentiment and refined taste,
and presenting a lively and agreeable picture of
female character.-N. Y. Dispatch.
A production that does honoralike to the.prin-
ciples and genius ofI the authoress.- By its refine-
ment and delicacy of sentiment, and its admirable
hie lessons, it is just suited to "Mothers and
Daughters."-St. Louis. Republican.
Psstles in the Air.-Price 50 Cents.
BnADY, ofAnn Street, has republished in cheap
fan, Mns. GonE's admirable story of "Castles
Is the Air." In none of her tales has this clever
eiter-displayed more of that keen perception of
earacter and close power of delineation which
at eminently characterize her. Mn. BEADY has
4 sae our novel-reading public a service in pro-
snating them with this reissue.-N. Y. Herald.
IL novel from the pen of Mns. GonE needs no
pr wise to commend it to thereading public.
{N. Y. Dispatch.
Mhis is a well-written story. Wit and wisdom
a;arkle through ita fascinating;pages. It will
b, perused with more than ordinary interest. A
gonoral of practical utility may be deduced from its
twachings.-St. Louis Democrat. -. .  ;
t o Old a Bird to be Caught with Chaff.-
Prise 50 Cents.     "
This work is written with all the vigor that dis-
tinguishes this lady from the many common-place
writers of the day. The story is pleasantly told,
and carried on its even tenor in a manner that
will please those who love tr find in a novel that
regard for the unities and tastefulness in style so
much to be prized by a writer who would seek
public applause.-Home Journal.
We do not know that Mus. GORE has penned a
novel superior to this. The parts are clever and
lively, contrast well with certain touches of
pathos and scenes wrought up with great feel-
ing : and the characters, though not altogether
new, exhibit features of sufficient originality to
entitle even those in fashionable life to be con-
sidered as very able impersonations.
[Legal Intelligencer.

The Dowager.-Price 50 Cents.
The book is very sprightly, and the satire
clever and amusing. The characters are well
drawn, and Mns. GonE's experience has produced
a most readable novel.-Phila. City Item.
Mns. GonE's stories are distinguished for their
advocacy of some.prominent virtue of practical
life, or a keen rebuke of vices calculated to injure
the peace of society. It is an admirable picture
.of modern manners in- the higher classes of so-
ciety. The author's style is easy and lively.
This latest of her productions will be perused
.ith more than ordinary interest.
[St. Louis Republican.
Percy; or, Fortune's Frolics.-Price 50 Cts.
This novel is written with positive power. It
may be called, a highly-colored photograph +e1
English society in our own time. This book v IiA
be rentembered by the reader as standing out I a
strong relief from the dull mess of novels made =ai
this scribbling day.-Legal Intelligencer.
Mns. GonE's novels are familiar to almost eveiy
household. They are both moral and high tone i,
and the virtues with which her heroes and her a
lines are invested are good examples for waywa' d
youth.-N. Y. Dispatch
. This work has received high ;praise from the
London critics, who pronounce it "the most br. l-
liantnovel of the season."--V.. Sunday Mercur .
The Young     Cadet. - Br C"r. iaELmw...
Price 50 Cents.
This- is a- story of life in India, in the East
India Company's service, of which the author h rs
evidently had some experience. , It is a story in
which domestic lifein the East, and spicy adven-
tures, are interestingly blended, and it is a book
that will-gratify and well repay perusal.
[Brooklyn Daily Eagle.
A lively and spirited novel, full of adventures in
the East Indies,'&amp;c. There is very little lov.-
making in this book, but in its place we have
interesting e.3capes by '"flood and fell." A plea-
sant companion to while away the hours.
-N. . Dispatch.
Annie ; or, Contentment.-Bx Mns. McKEN-
zin DMiELs.-Price 50 Cents.
A well-written story, of no ordinary -interest.
, is full of grace and harmony, flowinfand un-
affected in the style. The sketches of characte
and society are more than the ordinary class
The dialogue is both lively and natural. Alto-
gether it is a story, the style of which will gen-
erally please, aId the matter interest the reader
[St. Louis Republican.
This novel gives piquant sketches of character
and society, and is well written.--N. T'. Mercury.

Any Book in this List sent free of postage to any address on receipt of price.

MRS. GREY'S NOVELS.
Family Failings.-Price 50 Cents.
This novel will find much favor with the public,
from its pleasing character. It is strictly moral
in its tendency and gives a fine and truthful pic-
ture of English domestic life of the higher eass.
The hero, " Horace Leigh," is a fine character,
not over-drawn, and well worthy of imitation-a
fit subject "to point a moral or adorn a tale "-yet
not without his " family failings," which the au-
thor has shown up in a clever manner, as a beacon
to warn the voyager off from the shoals and quick-
sands of this life. The work is worth perusal,
and will repay the reader alike for his outlay and
trouble.- Scottish American Journal.
It aims to represent the hollowness and super-
ficiality o" fashionable society. the evils of merce-
nary match-making, and the misery and wrong
-  which the customs of an artificial society case 'o
'ingenuous hearts.and aspiring souls. It is a work
of more than average poweifand interest.
[Home Journal.'
Love'and Pride.-Price 50 Cents.
Few English female writers of fiction are spoken
of more highly by the English press, than Mus.
GREY. The plot of this story is good, and worked
out with admirable skill. The characters are seen
in life-like pictures. The impudence and diaboli-
ca t villainy of the principal heroes can scarcely be
equlealed, while the heroine is a noble and beauti-
foi portraiture. Every chapter increases in inter-
et f, until the story comes to a happy conclusion.
R. ad it.-Journal.
From a brief review of this book, we would
)eAge that it is a story of much interest, replete
w' ih, most stirring and exciting incidents, 'and
egibodying characters drawn more to the life than
is generally  resented in novels. The plot is
d   geawn with great tact, and the interest of the
rn 4er does not flag until the last page is perused.
[Mobile Daily Tribune.
The Hen-Pecked Husband.-Price 50 Cents.
This is a well-written novel, in style above the
ordinary run of fiction; characters well conceived
and well presented, and abounding in sage philo-
sophical reflections on' social life. The English
critics speak of its merits with unstinted praise,
and universally agree that its keen and delicate
humor, its accurate developments of female char-
acter, and its peculiar delicacy of sentiment,.enti-
tle it to a very high rank in modern literature.
[N. Y. Dispatch.
We de not know that MRS. GREY has penned a
novel superior to this. The parts that are clever
andlively, contrast well with certain touches of
pathos ard s -,nos wrought up with great feeling ;
and the characters exhibit features of originality
  sufficient to entitle even those in fashionable life
to be considered as very able impersonations.
Indeed, it is really a very interesting-novel.k --
(Literary Gazette.

Matchmaking; or, Fanily Maueuvres.-
Price 50 Cents.
Matchmaking, or Family Manoeuvres, is the
title of a new novel by the author of Jilt. It is a
capital story, and illustrates in the most amusing
manner some of the peculiar phases of English
society.-N. Y. Herald.
A work of brilliancy and interest, and a splendid
photograph of the subtle diplomacy of female
ingenuity. A story well calculated to disabuse
the reader's mind of the old fallacy that matches
are made in heaven.-N. Y. Dispatch.
This is a reprint of a capital and very successful
English novel, which will, we are sure, be quite as
successful here as it was in England. It is writen
in the highest style of sensational art.
[Fitzgerald's City Rem.
Angelina ; or, The Life of a Beauty.-Prio
50 Cents.
The author of "Angelina" tells some homely
truths, and we wish that they could be read by
every lady in the land. : Years of misery
and unhappiness 'might be saved to young
girls with-heads full of vanity and giddy nonsense
by learning the lesson now, that the writer wouls
impress upon the mind.-hrf, Field and Farm,
We have carefully read this new novel by a pojp
ular authoress, and have no doubt the book will
add not a little to the reputation made by other
wellwritten works. The authoress is possessed of
an undoubted talent, and deeply read in the myw-
teries of the human heart.-N. Y. Daily Era.
The Old Love and the New.-Price 50 Ct.
To delineate with minute touches all the lights
and shades of male and female character is the
writer's forte, and, in this task she acquits her-
self most successfully.-8A. Louis Republican.
One of the most engrossing novels we have
taken up for some time. It bears the impress of
a master-hand. Its good style and execution are
chaste and finished. It is the best novel we have
read for months.-Dispatch.
The Marrying Man.-Price 50 Cents.
This novel, by the author of "The Jilt," be-
longs to the class of light romance, and is one of
the most amusing works of the kind lately puh-"
lished.. It abounds in both humor and senti-
ment,,each in its turn affording a refreshing con-
trast to the other, and preventing the least
approach to dullness in any part. The book is
well worth the price charged for it.
[Merrtman's Monthly.
It is amusing as well as sensational, including
crime as well as courtship. It is amostamuslng
romance, and in one of those unique productions
which keep the mind alive with expectaiiauan4
fun to the end.-N. Y'. Dispatch.

Awy Book in this List sent free of postage to any address on receipt of price.


* ~E W B O O KS
e        A.    dy  Pbisher
2ryNN   TREET,. New York.
fithel~  fir..' et Potage en t.Ipa .f Pelse.N

DUAv WUWOOUEK
ajadepu     eanms meor, The de'm-
o       ................$so
Stunshis famous "Monts Obristo," no work of
this great novelist has produced such a wonderful
"  ian:-It is an im   ssbopk.  rr'b  s
it lastdi with Mile. Urery incident I. fill? of
reality. There is not a single dull maeIn the-
whel beoh
S   . Qss  ile  t                         so
D7.M i t a uono of th iso metfasillitod~
Lastil the wosld'tbistoiy- thewsa of la veae"
rlwareswthit a stoy of the most.in'
I iterrIUS tin  kit&amp;5-ttsurpss' iii- aboN.
tu tsi~tb~nppagsem         *
i     4   a  ne'of Iie..---------..----------
h    is- thy' latest, a  In the opinion of tet
farisian erities, the very aiest romance that Du-
isesvyt pei      . dtertain it is, that a bet-
kemaOhsesnt appieredfar mekuwny-ears
sthe Oma -e Plsteii; or, Thi eride of the
Usstiee.-. i..-....w..V-.....-----. S0
si adsnrable te Teldwith allthe brillnaasy
Tte           hv made Dunaes recognised as
S aeW3ookby the Mthar of The Roanons
o f  oer ' taig $*8-.'
wPt Ewa$   e seto sat er, mA arinte uy WIl
RyGOATse euille  - ..-..-.-----------------N
thabi '3ok, its gited author has far surpassed
Mit. wM  ,tOsesd. "Poor- owing Man." It is
a med A    ptpiclure of the intrigtes aM crimes
et thatfansmistress of the Adriatic, where
'3  taetibrts   esd anuesa
.  A4Gsptaswe the us ef te espa'
nOvm a 'T LAD        CLARAiOAVENDID-
W    W    iisk of the   srid.-.-..-----,---..
A iithful career of a Lady Gay Spauker sty)e
of womaa, who allows nothing to stop her in her
passer of fshiesible folly and dissipation in order
be ga the nesosesary meas to attain her ends.
tviemmrsa's Vietim.--    .0o
_ebe.abuses ihis, wonderful fcl  ola
pItiegntly epirited gisl intose power of
bsissU   it1raise'
h    motwt0ete. A   f  Taitrgi iia ble h it.... sO
'1hl.n le .'t: lounoat  on-one dO the dasli
Si  OI     siret.hss e arver ate highest
as  aswaoiease a f M1 t ver.:.--.. a
a s *  ir  +Q i*
U  1 ifoes ii
o4ehi.'.....---w--Iv.   . se
Osets W      saaiasd tsb
abgt tS esaw avanh

Out ot the- Depthas. A     istoy of a Wa  s s
-A *omih' atory and a woman's book. "Ot of
the. Depths"' wilinterest ma'.and totify s06
bu th.dithsnne ;   i   ook written with a
tender a&amp; 4se ats hand; and even the foul things
of whioh: it treats lose much of their estate
nature by themethed of that treatment.
Almaost a- Heroine. A-Romance.......-.----n
his is one of the most orilnal books aeve!
-particular haat-litppeaserdsne " as Eyre"
Virooen  e  Lsey'  r, Quleksads andWhirl-
pols   A Tale, of Youth's Temptations. By
ey    .St. Jon. Illustrated.----.---.- -... S
N  st have we rs a work s vividly real, so
hi hly attractive, and yet sa frako~rm  uti.
Te above three- novels are also pub  ' es  d la
eloth, at f1 cents a volume.
Uaisy.Reafd      !B or,The Gbler of theM s.-
elpp. By     ek Brace.---------------
The Pirate's Daphte..----------------
A stiry of citing deeds upon the ocean. TM1
of startling pictures, of the wildest sad. mos te-
riro interest, varied by passage of the most tended
pathos.
The Count's Niee       or, The Veteran of Ma.
rtango. This is -1,  Prise Story.-...-.--.. Se
-ans y Campbell . er, The female tirate
ena E  ------.-------------------------- ,e
Fetay Campbell,tthe heroin, is oneef thatest
interesting characters ever delinested, and her ex-
piots surpass in boldness and biln=cy the moset
gat eplotti*ser-pearforied. This book is as-
wledgedby allwho haveSreait, to be the vrs'
best renantic histoof the starring incidents of
er Leyolutionsry  -r "Of   teen.
'heh iftiwa l Othes  or, The tlrates' avr.... et
A nautcal taee full of wild a...d stirring a4-
.snt pe. Inident follows incident as fast as one
1lue te follows anether. Those who have read
Fanny Campbell," by the same author, wer't
aeed pressing to buy thae equaly g tromauee.
eVhw quee      of the  Pra.tt -.. w, The
This stork, fraught with ootes sndl teemio
lmpossiblliatss1 has unknown chasms whinh- tias
shone who have read the work, can omarehead.
i Ie-  ve.-                            -. s
A su      Of Wa a se napeosn   1es1    1
a  uma     81   .---..-----------s ...-----  *

FREDERI1 A. BRADY'S OAT4LQGUEK
RRADY'S CELEBRATED " M               8QR ' .o'IES
--.1'Sabberay; or the Idiot 'Spy.          A    Rier. ..He waitd forhe: return of -theeasse
tale of .the mn~and deeds of '76. By Ned Bunt- sin. He had not long to wait. In a very few
line. Illustrated with several full-page engravings  mint.tes that ind'viual came in and emptied out
by Darley. The attention of the reader is led to  the gold upon the table which Ped , the fisher.
.hp lays of the American Revolution, when deeds  man, had carried away, as vyell as oti er ve Iables
of great valor and heroism were enacted. Saul  found upon the murdered scamp, who had desert
pretends to be an idiot, and by that means, gainsJ edly met death just when he has conis'mmated his
access to the enemy's camps and reports their do-  villainy and received his reward.  There are
lg to American commanders. Saul renders much  hundreds of very beautiful scones and ldstoricd
service in those trying times,.and was selected to  incidents in this book that only sup h a writer as
tarry ina-Iligence to Gen. Washington ; mounting  Buntline could so elegantly portray. Price $0 25
the horse of the lamentedd Ethan Allen, he . gal- Sea Waif ; or the Terror of the Coast,
loped to White Plains to the camp .where Wash-  By Ned Buntline. -Embellished with-ten ipage
ington was giving orders to his Aids. gaul rush-  By Ned BtiDne  Dle Th'is 'iteetistoag
ed into the presence, and seeing: the Commander-  illustrations by Darley. Ti  interesting story
In-chief, shouted, "you are a  a like other  opens at the commencement of out American
folks !"  The chief Eastily opened ,the dispatch  Revolution withSea Waif being engaged,.by old
nds! a.Td  ehillumined his countenance. Sal  Phineas Oringle, as the Captain of the Tyranni
ad a glad .smile.ilmndhscutrae Sd             cide, a privateer. In his first adventure, he ,sinks
is then employed on.perilous ,services which he a British Sloop of -War, -whieh- is -escorting some
faithfully executes to :the perfect satisfaction of
Washington, who rewardsbutt. Saul finallymar-  half a dozen transports, and captures them all and
ries Luly the untutored child of -Eirnathla, the  -brings themito port,sby-whieh rmnglertgett over
,dread Chief pif athe. Seniinoles, but -now .the fully  f  akded tusand dollar  pizte money.  ea
developed and educated woman of civilized life.  aif makes the Tyranaicide theterror of"the
Washington is present at the wedding and thanks BIritisheis and after - many-adventures is taken a
haul in the:name of a Free Country. Price $0 25  prisoner . Sea Waif has been pickedup when
quitefa child, by-some -fishermnen. off-Nantucket
The 'White 'Wizard ; Or the Prophet              Shoals-and.is adopted by.a hermit-who nameahim
of the Seminoles. A tale of atrange Mystery in    warA  eW      hecaund e ;a     a     r
the South and North. By .Npd Buntline.: Six    sea. At 'the -time he. is :found he- floated ashore
full piage engravings from desigrsby Dlarley. The on an old sea chest, wherein were a number of ar-
reader's attention is called back a peiod f near- tiless with create upon them, -which finally leads
S   e  a     to his identification as. Lord Francis lgerton, Al
ly. forty years ago when  p banish pirates and  trbe'ingrlesd ad xhangd rtas      'msh's
American slavers infested our Southern coasts ter being -reeased and, exchange e assumes his
when New York Merchants,. some of whon. o~w    position as a peer of the relm,.comes-back o the
wallow in their gilded mansions in our. fashionable  land of freedom where he marries .  , tne
streets, were engaged in fitting out vessels to  daughter of old Oringle and repss to Bngland
a    fitig o-twesthlher j             All the, character i-his 6  ti u ksto
catch "bek-birds," as - well as "green ones."  with her.            r   intis eau       o
The White ,Wizard is a Cauc;asian, who is'leavin  ry have happy lives and it ,finally ,ird'up by
cy                            , . d  . g   everybody being pleased and.satisfied. Whoever
civized society with is you   ife and daring      d  h   torwllostauredlhe            eirfull
child of two years. They are overtaken by a p    one 's worth. Price,
rate vessel, which pour shot and canister at the  m         '        ''   '''     '
small yacht upon which is the'White Wizard.leA Man-of-Warsg1Wan's G-rudg'e. B3y Ned
hel falls upon  the wife and she is killed.   Buntline. A romance of the Revplution. The
Through the aid of some kind fishermen he man-  chase-the fight-the baffed suitor-an aldernan
ages to escape with his little yacht up one of the  of he olden t*m-thtory-loivr 'andemis
small river on the coast of Florida, where he falls  o tre and oen tin  b tetorye-eva eeaenedqty -mn-
~ inwit a andof emiale  Afe  lat'    tress and servant-  gquet-tete-a-tete--enemy -in
In with a band of Seminoles. After consultation  ~gtOr      efr-rreadmsr-aeo
h ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     a '  os  o, aht-Cora Bedford-crime and misery --fate of
e is accepted by them as  tWhite Medicine."    war-surprise-cruise-love's stratagem--- spy-
:Theydi n  rave for his murdered wif beneath a  night scene in Philadelphia-fiend In hunin
teydig a.g                                    shape-welcome visitor -abduaction-stgige: in-
tall magnolia. He carved upon the tree, as he  terview -worns kindness-disclosure - ca
seihed " Lost, lost, forever!" one word-" Ions."        w   o'nakinies  ---ilsure  - -ap
- 1. themornn  hi har *hch ws a  oss ture-parole of hpnor-a virit---two vlllains--so
in the morning, h's hair, hich was a glossy  vial dinner-storm at sea-fight-foiled and kill-
brown, the night before, had been changed to a  ed-five beautiful enrvipgs lDy Darley.
sn o w  w h ite .!                                  P ' e-g
"4,                                 ' ~Prce ......... ............... ; O 91
ahe murderers of my wife, seek my blo, d,
they would rob me of my child !" said Arpiala. Stella Delorme- or the {amanche'g
"They Lad better put their hand in the nest of  Dream. By-Ned Buntline, A wild and fanolful
the hooded Cobra than t.eekimy white brother  story of savage life. Ilhustrated,-by six-full page
.amog the Seminoles !" cried .Obikika. ":We  engravings in Darley's best style. The-author of
will go half way to meet them !"  The child .Ona  this Indian tale has been - exceedingly prolific ia
Is stolen by one of the fishermen who turns trait-  his descriptions of savage life as is is-in ou-Wee.
or, and ta en to Havana to Seno ribera, who is  tern Wilds,  -This-is oneof--theery interesing
authorizei to pay ten thousand dollars for it. - Ri-  :stories that Buntline so.well-knows.-how-ta-weive
bera empova an assassia.to kill-the-eiberman af- .that-when once the- reader begins to-aen Its pa.
ser ha depart from. Aiberea Jeusenausd.tak*Ahalf geg he miannot'leaveldt untibzheflishes its-reading
the gold for his trouble nd,.r  a.p .heppge to;  -fog~veryppgh Iiwa sIIOaOeO, - lidk4 40191
lea dOpieh     teabove. books gezit te any d-ssin thte Vgted  gyfeo page-


.REpRRIC A BRA DY'S CATALOGUN.
'                     MADKRQ01T TBRATEDO" MR~th STORIES.
LuoMiiPracott;        'tthe C irse Fuillied. vforgan; or the Knight of the Black P!g
A talc of the Arinerlen Revolution.  By Ned    A *t",nee story, of by-gone times.  By Ned B'int
Butline. We will give a sho::t tsyngpsia of its  line.  illustrated by Darley with ten full lre e
contents, viacurse of the dying and the inmiss'  gravinigs. The author carries the render to the
of the living-i"history of wrong and' desolation,  days'of the "Metrry Monarch," Charles II, and
cry for vengeance.. . Military drill and funeral.  faithfilly pictures soine of the persecutions of the
We will--pulpit verSus pills. ,A picture---myste-  Hebrews at that time  Morgan the hero of thei
ry. Rum and recruinng.. Ethan Alle   and the    plot is a young Welsh nobleman deeply in love
Lreein Mountain Boy. Assault on Quebec-Mont.    with Miriam, a young and beautiful Jewess, the
gomery killed.  Battle on the lake. At ' yme.   daughter of'Solomon, surnamed "Solomon the
Arnold in action.  Hot and cold blood.  .emus   Jew."  The attention of the reader is called to
Heights. Arnold in Philadelphia.  Arnold's first  the following extract to show the style of the ae
false .sten and leads.'-wbere I  Washington and  thor it the exciting tale :
the reprimand. Favor asked and granted.   Ar.    " Thou art of those who believe that the glories
aold's treason. Andre's epture. The traitor's  of the Holy City will be yet revived 1"
escape. The warning of Luona.     Washington     "It is ai part of our creed.  Were it not for
-discovelts the treason. ,Arnold awakens to misery.  that hope the doom of the Hebrew were dark, in
Leuona at home. Terrible -conclusion. Seven il-  deed ! Persecuted by all men-reviled and ha.
'estrationsaby Darley. Price ....      $0 25    ted---they know littlh of joy. on earth l"
" All men do not. hate thy race ! ."Some pity
v   Mess; or the Pirate Hunters of the          more than they hate."
y(4'lf. A tale of Naval heroism and wild pdven-  "Pity !"
to in the Tropics, by Ned Buntline. Illustrated   The jet-black eyes of the Jewess 'flashed like
by five engravings by Darley.  This is one of   "re as she echoed this word.
-Buatlines's Sea Romances, for which heis so emi-  Py      h     d   "Give us hate and seg.
neatly proverbial, and into which he casts so much  but not so base a thing as pity-! Pity the hind
exclalsy Interest. This story -Is utrurpassed in  which howls when you scourge him-pity the
pierilous adventure and -Nautical romance  ' any  slave which kisses the hand tht smite h  ut
oh.      o    r  ...s....a.....a               rtyu -notforweyetare proudamid all suffse.
Sg antl all persecution."
Ing    h T   m       the       gf     Sct.         There are many exciting and interesting scenes
m r'                   r      in this book that will chainthe attention of the.
A tale of Ship and Shore. By Ned'Buntline. D-   read to its very last words. Prie.....$015
rustrated with six engraings by 'barley  The
leader is taken' to a New  England village and Death Mystery: a Crimson Tale of 1A.e
Snds Mr. Dthinmond on'the,160kot for the ' Scud'.
B    -sM.  mon  ntelok    , o te'cd       in New York. By Ned Buntline. Eight elegant en-
" vessel cotamanded by Frank Hewlet, a most un. ,gavneyrByNed Binehtelegante
mitigated rascal. Hewlett has a wife in New York  gravrngs by Darley, Tbis is perhaps one of the
circumvents the ruin of Betse  Hunt, the daugh-  most interesting tales ever penned by Buntline. A
ter of the 'tavern kerof tevillage,andalso   womanis the .leader of a band of murderers and
endeavors to marry salie Drummond. Poor cut-purses ; whom she visits in various disguises,
edeyvorstoi andued-oometorNuwmYorkwhere   so that her-own, band fail to recognize her. She
Betseyls induced-ta come to Ne York, where     viaits the gambling hells of New York ; breaks a
the ceremony of a moek- marriage is performed. number of the Faro Banks, inveigles her'betrayer
She Is then left to her own resources and after be-  an u eo th  rons ineigis the betrye
lug locked up in 'abrothel b iMarcer street, makes  and causes his ruin. She exhibits the most re.
beg enedup and throghcllierwith stree mnake lendless hate, and proves that a neglected woman
bloud se baffles'and ocexousioe  Hewlet to  hu  is the most to be dreaded of all characters.  She
sade. Ol~D    rummnd   has bee an     is   saves many of her sex from destruction; and final-
shame. old, tue f       as beenwn  .English  ly winds up by causing those who had persecuted
hsmuggletr akd the facts being known to Hewlet  her formerly. to meet at her house, which is ton
he_ tribe to take advantage of ths acts tothis  -  elaborate establishment in one of our best locali-
plgementef Drummond, sandu isonallys1tied  ties, and poisoning them with some refreshments,
a all has attgnpts. Ig elet's teped he    at a ball which she gives for their amusement.
ih eonvlted of Bigay and serves the stat' It    Previous to their deaths she informs them who-she
theoapabtof a conict.. Rosalit Drummond m   is, how they spurned her with their persecutions,
yen to be the legitimate h-iresas to an earldom  adsenwcnen         hmt     odg     uih
"Egadan            dpe                  and she now condemns them to condign punish.
England and only the adoptedl daughter of     mn.pri:       ............,02
mmond.The secret of l)rumnond the em ig-
ler, is that he is supposed to have murdered theHe;c
bariDelorme, (the father of Rosalie) when het,  illiare Henderson;iOr the Secret re-
had -in fact-only wounded him.  Delorme comes' vealed.  By Ned Buntline. This we ac contains
to America and the real 'son of Drumiond mar.   a number of illustrations by Darley; and is the
vie-Bosalie and becomes thereby the heir to the  antecedent of the Death Mystery. Here are set
,es i 'estate and title. 'The publisher car. scarcely  forth all the machinations of the characters spo.
gIve an" outline of these interes'=ig tales in this ero-
Mttle catalogue, buit feels assured that the readers ken of 'n the Death Mystery. To have a com-
ef thys bocks will be amply repaid for both time' ulete estimation of the Death Mystery with all It,
and espelae initheir radingwrice ..a $O 25 exciig Incidents the residee must have a copy al
e  an#*t   ewk mailed. postage.)         Hillare Hlenderson ric.....'..0a
CF  C'arijt     anhow' ildsent o Uin   r    the united 8tstesb ~reet.
bad d      '.s#*s se TdW     Brady; a lser. 1%. 29 Anroyrees.aew-

A
y


  
             
         
       
   
