
    ----CITATION----
        Nye, E. C.. Life, Trial and Conviction of Zella De Chalue .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7347
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Life, trial and conviction of Zella De Chalue 
            
               THE OR THE BROKEN PLEDGE.  BY   lS. 0. NTY    3.   i Prioe .....ents       BURLINGTON, IOWA:  OSBORBNt ACRES, STEAM 1Bo60 AD JOB PRINTER. E. 1878.   "FE, TRIAL AND CONVICTION OF  ELLA DE CHALUE, ALSO, THE LIF, CONFUSION AND STARTLING DISCLOSURES OF THE NOTORIOUS "ARENCE 0. ALDERMAN. THE INTERESTING TRIAL. MANY SECRETS FOR TI  FI^RST TIME MADE PUBLIC. WITTEN BY HERSELF AND RE-WRITTEN BY  WITH ECXPLANATORY NOTES. 1 CONCI LITT DROUGHT L IGHT T. THE MYtHRIOUB J i ; 'O WHAT DUD IT MEANI      COP'I  \ -I  DP- tg bfgot rWif. d tt nu at ten, to conault. I f "Imeaoot I t ws thy wlh that I should rnr A Oelty ohte In th .,nny's . dell, e bJnod3sd tly glft, where I mlgt dweH, In .ml,,riyod th an, to mo most der; Thart, odlMdd, we fo yor Mto y7er MD weak I oar higi slng. # 7    Entered aording to Act of Congru, In the yer 1818, by & C. NYt, In the Offices of the Librarlan of Congress at Washington.   INTRODUCTORY. It was in the year 18-- the author saw the subject of this work upon the street, he was then spoken of generally, as one who had committed a great crime: one who was generally spoken of at one of the notabillities of an epoch long past. I never heard him spoke of as having any connection with church or civil matters, of recent occurance, for years I had heard of CLARseao OZIAs ALDEBMAI, chief of a band of desperadoes, gamblers, dc., c. But being lik many others regarded such matters as the slurs of someill dspoeed persons; when convinced by a longer residence in the state, that there was, and had been some kind of a secret organization dangerous to those not concerned, I began to examine matters more carefully. The first was, that while every body from judges down, united in calling him a desperado, of the deepest dye; and while evidence of several of his crimes, not a single attempt had been made by Judges or people to bring him to justice; for six years, this man and family had the courts and juries exclusively in their own hands; during that time many persons had been executed for crimes They could do tk they pleased in judieial matters, end abnndlnce of evidence was before them against one so cruelly wronged It was one year after the occurence herein related before the grand Jury moved,there was no indictment and not even a complaint before an ewsmiung magistrate, this indicated something wrong. But what? Until I ob- tained Mrs. A's manuscript I never fully knew. When ATWnTqMWAX was arrested all the prominent speakers and papers united in denoun- , p    cing him as a " notorious criminal who'had long been able to evade justice." If this was known as they admit it was,why was not AT nunwA arrested and punished during that long period? in which the citizens arrested whoever they pleased. Ah I Why? Indeed- except upon explanation given in this book. He was one of those men one so seldom meets, of rare mental powers, a fine commanding person and maniy face, at the same time with a benevolence almost sweetness of eixpision, that to see him, was to yearn to know him, and to know him was to love him, and when he sought to win the hand and heart of Zzul, DI CHAILIE, she rejected a!l gossip that had been hurled at him like atrue wife, till he serpent- like, sent his poisonious fangs into the innermost recess of a larcer- ated and bleeding heart. E. 0. NYE.   TSM FAIE MBRUIAG. OR THE BROKEN PLEDGE. IIBT  ..   ai. 4V* Vot vi   V oi," and the vio*iWtdr  gft Through the t Sane e Amsorsn the dep, Are the incles of childhood, by time grown endeareg Are the birds that re singing my tired soul to %teapt When I lusber I fnow it 1Wl brig me Brigt visions of beautitl ringles, And eyes speaking mirth,  A411t  'the"'b "k 10'i*ld  *0 MWft 4an Oftp    4 %6MM4to&dif the*-V*W 4U M   i    t   uf therMh Aad so you wmould hase oe believe I bhave .been dAspdP But I can prove diferently. YFu ai bot proe it; you re sel4 in tmy powe s nd I iase ou 4o tty reven to do 40. You, have but a few friends fma thb maty you nae %hought'to claim. eithr Wfgo to W* I h   P(   , se y   i tust either go to servitude &It**.   6       TB IALSE MAIWAGX, OR Your friends when they come to know, will not recognize you as belonging to the blood. My dear, what do you think of this? I go to-morrow morn to seek another and a richer bride, and she shall be to me-ihat you have never ;been-A be- loved wife  My work is completedl I am veri grateful to you for the money, and with this and your genial smiles forever haunting me, I shall enjoy life immensely, with sweet;Tossie and dear little Carrie. The beautiful form was drawn up to its full height; the bright eyes blazed forth a myriad of lights; the lips slightly compressed, pale as marble, with' two bright spots, which burned on either cheek, made altogethera beautiful picture. She gazed at the speaker through that heartless speech, then with more scorn than he had ever heard her make use of, she replied: Very well Callie, if this is your game two can work at it. But remember my curse shall follow you to the grave, and all that follow in your train. Then raising her right hand as she spoke, with one finger pointed to heaven. She prayed that God would curse him and his forever I and ever! Turned and was gone. After she retired he encouraged the idea he had done agood deed; for said he, it had to be, and it might as well be now as ever. She will forget-she is of so loving and for- giving a disposition-and turning to the desk, prepared to write a letter to his father. *   *   *   *   *   *   .*   *, 'It is now, necessary to give the reader a glimpse behind the scenes at the opening of our story. ,. .   TRE BROKEN PLEDGE. ' The first speaker, a lady of some two and tweity, grace. ful as a gazelle; eyes of the softest brown, and hair;,whose clustering cuil the sun shown gloriously,-bright, win- some ways-the bell of the village, and queen of the circle whereins heamovedr ......,       ,  She was the daughter of a wealthy merchant, who died when she was quite young, her mother having died some two years previous to the death of her father, leaving, her sole heir to an immense forti ne. She had io' brother or sister or any one with'whom she had more than common interest. :To be sure she had her guardian parents, whom she esteemed highlt and but few would have known they 'were not in reality her own, ,there being a similarity of names, herguardian's name being hat of merely Chalue, while that of our heroine being- De Chalue.  .  When she arrived at the age of womanhood she thought to see a bit of fashionable life. Ac'codingly she visited : number of fashionable watering places accompanied by her friends, but had returned to the quiet little villageof Qoh- kosh, Wisconsin,: to spend the winter of 18-, where she isited among her many friends, making her home with a friend, Mrs. Della, Mcintyre.. They were warm friends and passed nay happy hour to gether; and as Callie Alderman was' an old schoolmate of Mrs. Molntyre's, and his father being wealthy and of good family, his attentions were rather encouraged than 'other. wise, by Della, Zella DeOhalue's friend. ,   ; .  The second speaker, a man of medium height, high,brid brow, dakkl brown curls,' large, black eyes, with a boft, ci e    Taii ers sion, made him altogether what is termed a Whiy s iman:. l' one thought him guilty of 'a act .a bbe.   THE 4:   ]4W ^r  QB M.', .MP4r, qEpwaga.  .lla .! khOIe t9 .w ivo the Weiou of itlrw  Aldorw9 , little kihiing te e4y to brpg wih vaerl twr9b* vp, ir btl We fien as wa, Pw 4- At last Clarence Alderman proposed, and w, of aowru, oUCpte. .4d qgo4 ap   a ry ni It was to be ,i WedndaWy evipg, Mih h, l-.,s  d quiet mweddg ma desired by Clarene Aldema an when what was the surprise of Zela at eeaivi g a note from her hbrtrd  4fwmwighSr t of latr' a    f of  ld D  y'-( ' i't FfU T m Mw!,uia v. Gonmme T-It is. uder painful 'Wurm rate  I am aPUOSpdled to addrI you twinghthe ediw I. th lpen. I .ad WmuL ^-ir se you and anmwmujfslit the st^digt%. My littl- one, mst I sq adly grive youl Give thy heart a pang? But my cold hearted, rebelinvi h  bu, (Sldet ll awapondlae with yuw ad NmIly! or- bid   f wiw MustI tell youQ, myi nbeme, hi. sjn, iw   Tows mptioNi T  GaUt of tion mtl? elKla, tswebt vsi  of my soullo mBates yeaM; how isal  ever ind word to desribe the owl, Tat b'um' : my beastfor you How duar H bsethe into yey, puwe vstoi earl Zella, sweet vision of my s ul, dam"I vew hep to call ha sninut, M y little prali, ,I wrst bwreehyw t slope with. mI. Oh1 ehla, li4 t of my life y  V*! a yW Fs (tNt aOwtsacloud oer y fturo life, hbut ,'lt t m wereve blost; happy fmorvr in yow IWve; eh lIV m I knov yen an give if you will But tiaUt yot frat with m, e,' It wi) be Pqib   t we y9 1ffre oWMOW (1otw  * AO is, f you wi b  ffRitlfuil nd pqwee4 my w jsenralP y pt    hu iN aiwrie .tqt with a  kfl oI MU mw y pr-gclins 3d it wi h  etlyt iopQi?   tet 8  ,y   THH BBO ] FLBD4X.  / without being seen; and that would, of coarse, blast all hopes of future bliss. Let me know darling, if I may ever hope to call thee mie'! Mine alone, that nothing but the grim monster, ster dqati, can ever take you from me. Please reply, if possible, by the bearer. Yours, lovingly, CALLIE ALDERMAN. This note was written in a great deal of study and hesita- tion; half in doubt, in fears as to the result. When Zella De Chalue received the white missive, little dreaming about the contents of that elegantly pened note, might be,. with trembling fingers cut the end of the envel. ope, and drawing the white missive forth, read with no little suspense the contents. Calmly seating herself at the little rosewood desk, after a few moments deliberation wrote a reply. It ran thus: DEpA CALLI:--My more than friend, you cannot imag- ine my surprise as well as displeasure at receiving a note of this kind from you. I never dreamed of such a proceeding.. I supposed from the tenor of your conversation there wts no objection to consummating a marriage with imyelf. If it i as you state, and I cannot doubt your word, it would per- haps, be better for us to remain as we are, or at leas, ti your father becomes reconciled to our union, if he erer does, and if not, my regard is lasting. I can wait years if necessary; but at present I consider it the best, nolen& eo- lens. Therefore I must bid you wait one month, and see you in the mean time if possible. It seems so very strange that I should be called to account for my occupation at this 2   "O      THE FALSE MARY AGE, OB late day, but I trust you will put all to rights, when I see  you, and I will learn it's only a little ruse after all. I shall expect to see you at the earliest possible moment. Your note has caused me no little anxiety. Yours ever, ZELLA DE CHALUE; This note was returned by the bearer, where it found Callie Alderman waiting at the door of his father's elegant country house. He took the little white missive, and with a complacent smile tossed the boy a silver peice, and turn- ing to enter the room, met his friend Hugie Haolan, a hand- some fellow of two and twenty. (Halls Fallis, a letter from your fiancee, grinned he)-with large black eyes and glossy hairand a most bewitching smile. (So the ladies all thought.) 'With a smile he replied: YWu know the old saying, "vessi vidi vici, es sinqua non pur bons publicos," and carlessly tore open the note and proceeded to read, but as his eye ran quickly down the page his brow darkened, and the smile gave way to that of evil, cool deliberation. When he had finished reading he folded the note, while a triumphant smile lit up his features, and muttering something to him- self, placed it carefully in his day-book, and turning to go, met the gaze of his friend. Hugie, who had been a silent observer of Callie while he had been reading, abruptly speaking, he asked how now? Your expression signifies a something not altogether pleasant. What's up? Callie, your fiancee's given you the negative to your pro- position! Eh, one would think by your woe-begone expression, you had lost a dear friend, or been foiled in your most sanguine expectations.   THB BROKIN PTIDGU.        1 Ha, ha, ha, have I guessed it? giving him a' slap on the shoulder. Well no, not exactly, replies Callie. Altogether it is not-quite what I anticipated, but per- haps it's just as wel Everything is for the best, I sup- pose. Yes Callie, the All-wise Creator ordained each one his or her sphere, and we ought to be satisfied with what God has given us, his greatest blessings, health and wealth, and not complain of our petty troubles here in our daily life on this great terestial globe. Very good, Hugie. But you know "human nature is prone to wander." To tell you the truth, Hugie, I have been a little disappointed. Ah, indeed, replied Hugie; be kind enough to take me into your everlasting confidence, and tell me all about it.- Perhaps I can give you some information or advice regard- ing this affair. I hardly think you can-nevertheless, if you will pledge me your everlasting friendship in a glass of sherbot, I will tell you all about it, and in all probability require your assistance in what I am about to undertake. It will require nonchalance as well as the strictest secrecy. If you accept my terms we will proceed to business at once. Certainly, I am your friend at all hazards. Let come what may, I will be with you as staunch a friend as you , ever wish to see, as you may ever need. Come then Hugie, we will adjourn to my sanctuary and converse ad libitum. The two young men turned and wended their steps down the crowded thoroughfare of that bustling little village, the   busiest day of all the week, when every one who could pos- sibly leave their homes and families were crowding up and down the busy thoroughfare of the little village, each one bent on securing something to gladden the hearts of those remaining at home, or for their own special comfort. Among the many familiar faces to be seen on that event- ful day might have been seen a gentleman of medium hight, closely mulled in a heavy beaver coat and furs, stand- ing near where the conversation of the two we have seen pass down the street, took place. At a glance one would have taken him for a stranger, but on close scrutiny it would be perceived to be a man of rather prepossessing appearance, dark, curling hair, brushed back from a high, broad forehead, underneath which a pair of steely blue orbs, glittered a Grecian nose and small mouth, around which curled a heavy dark brown mustache, showing a beautiful set of pearly teeth when the lips part-, ed, with a half sarcastic, half comical smile, as he watched the the two disappear around a corer in the direction of Callie Alderman's residence. Ha, ha, ha, my covies: So you two are plotting against an innocent girl! By the stars, (-) I will lend you a helping hand, but it may not suit as well as tho' pledged with a glass of sherbet or sparkling catawha. As he turned his steps in the direction of Miss De Chal- ue's residence, on arriving there he rang the bell, and was soon ushered into the lady's presence, who looked more bewitching than ever, after the excitement of writing a reply to Clarence Alderman's letter. Good morning, Mr. Le Duc; be seated, and give us some idea of what is passingen " beau" nuds.   tUa BOXHEN PLbDaE.        13 That would be hard to do, as there seems to be so much passing. But as my business is altogether with you, I should be pleased to have a febfmoments conversation with you alone; with a significant expression. Mrs. McIntire found some excuse for going out and leav- ing the two alone. Zella colored slightly as she caught the significant ex- pression and replied with slight sarcasm:  "Proceed Mr. Le Du, I am all attention." After a moments hesitation he proceeded to relate the conversation between the parties, which had taken place that morning, adding there is evil intended. I am fully assured, and I fully believe you to be the victim intended, Miss De Chalue, of this conspiracy. You may be correct in your assertion, Mr. Le Duc, but until I am fully satisfied I am mistaken, I can never change my mind. Yet I do'nt wish to dispute your assertion in the least. Drawing herself proudly up, and with a moking laugh replied: But I have long ago held Clarence Alder- man in too high estimate, too much so to be made to calum- nate his name or character in this light. Therefore you will pardon my disavowal of what you have just communi- cated, adding, I may be possibly mistaken. If I am I should regret having said what I have; but until I am satisfied I must remain firm in my belief, But Miss Do Chaule, should this terminate as I am fully assured it will, I would have you remember I am your friend-not through mercenary motives, but from pure and lasting friendship. I owe you a lifetime of devotion for your kindness to me while I was in that living tomb at   "      TE FALSE M3RIAROE O0 Libby Prison, as well as my release from there, which ere now, if not for your timely assistance and intercession I would have been numbered among many whose last resting place is marked only by a moss-covered slab, shows the price that was paid to sustain the Union, the soldiers had saved. I know you always professed the warmest friendship, and I hope you will never have cause to think otherwise, replied Zella. But Frank, speaking more familiarly, I hope I may never be obliged to try your friendship to such an extent as it appears you are laboring under. The impression, I sin- cerely hope, and trust, its only a hallucination of the brain, and you will see your error in a few days. I may be mistaken, but until I am satisfied I am in error I shall not lay aside my observation of your fiancee; and remember, Zella, taking her hand, let come what will, I am your friend still! And here the conversation ended by the entrance of Mrs. Me Intyre, who announced dinner, and invited Mr. Le Duc to dine, but he politely declined the invitation, and in a few moments was gone. After the departure of Mr. Le Due, Zella De Chalue turned to the dining hall where an elaborate dinner was spread. But Zella had no taste for the luxuriously spread board. Her thoughts would revert to the morning. A set- tled moody melancholy seemed to have taken possession of her, which nothing could dispel. Seeing her in this mood, Della ventured to remonstrate, and coaxed and scolded by turns, and going across the room threw open the grand old piano and called Zella to playsome- thing to while away tediousness of the evening. After a few moments she seated herself at the grand old piano, touched the glistening ivory keys lightly, playing a low,   THK BROKUN PLUDB.          15 soft prelude, and sang with a voice that might have belong- ed to an angel. So sweet was the music as the rich cadence rose and fell upon the stillness of summer air, that beautiful piece from Walla Wfta, "The Wandlerer's Return: My home once so happy, is cheerless and drear, The voice of my loved one, no longer I hear, My heart aches with sorrow and sickness and gloom, I'm anxiously waiting to welcome him home; Home, home, sweet home. I'll anxiously waiting To welcome him  *  * I've made him my idol, the joy of my heart. But oft in my sadness, the teardrops will start To think that cruel fortune should cause him to roam So far from his loved ones at home. Home, home, sweet home, How gladly I'll welcome thee home. From morning till evening, I'll wait his return, Hope's etar, brightly beaming; my spirit will burn: Be still my sad murmors, the spring will soon come. Titen gp,^ly I'll welcome the wander home. Home, home, sweet, sweet home. Then glandly I'll welcome the wander home. As the singer ceased, and the music died away, a step sounded on the carpet, and turning she beheld the form of Clarence Alderman standing near her. He had entered unperceived by either of the ladies-he being so well ac- quainted had entered without ringing, and hearing the music had waited till she ceased. With a surpressed shriek she sprang to her feet, con- fronting him with a face pale as marble. With an effort she controlled her emotions and giving him her hand which he 'kissed reverently, sl. exclaimed: Why Callie, you frightened me terribly. I had given you up entirely for the present.   16      THE FuALS MARRtIAAOG, OR Not so easily as this, Miss Zella. Why, I had just began to think how "sweet stolen interviews would be," for you must know. "You are my comfort; and my light, My very life you seem,   i I think of you all day, all night, 'Tis of you I dream, There's pleasure Zella, in the slightest word That you can speak to me, My soul is like the eolian cord, And revibrates still to thee." No darling, light of my life, I sincerely trust that dreary day may never come, for life without thee would indeed be miserable, should I be obliged to relinquish you so easily. But dear, believe me, there is no tie that will be felt in my dying hour as the tie that binds me to thee. There is no obstacle so great but that I would turn heaven and earth to overcome. Drawing her to him and imprinting a kiss upon her pure, white brow. Ohl Clarence, replied Zella, you misunderstand me. I don't wish you to infer I intended to relinquish you so easily, only for the present. From the tenor of your letter I thought it would be im- possible for you to see me soon, and your unceremonious entrance rather surprised me than otherwise. But your words have entirely reassured me. And now dear Calle, please tell me why you wrote me as you did. An exultant gleam lit up the features of Clarence Alder- man at this disclosure, for it only frustrated his plans. How trusting thought he, as he watched the beautiful form reclining so gracefully upon the sofa.   THEB BROEut P iDOB.       17 Well Zella, dearest, I will tell you, as this may be our last interview for the present. My plans for the futtyeare these. My father, as I told you in my letter, has forbidden all correspondence with you, and I must abide his decision or be cut off without a cent. And this, of course, does not relish well. Now what I would propose is this. For a few days we will profess no love-broken off our engagement, and will appear very disheartened and moody when in the presence of my father, and he will naturally suppose I am in deep dispair at having to give you up so unexpectedly. And in time he will relent a little; and taking advantage of his compassion for me, I will, if you would make me ever happy, take you to the nearest clergyman, and there be made one, for better or worse. I will have the carriage in readiness at half past eight, Saturday evening, at the cor- ner of Locust and Pine street, where I will take my little bride to Fondulac, where we will await the result of our elopement; and if father relents we will return and be hap- py in each others love. Seeing a shadow on the bright face, he went on; and I will make you ever happy, dearest. My life shall be spent in endeavoring to promote the interests of your happiness. I know you will never have cause to regret, if you will but trust your fate with mine. But should he not relent then, perhaps, it would be better for us to remain as we are at present, or until we would be better able to live than we are at present, or would be under the circumstances. But Zella, dearest, if he would not relent, we'll go away some where, and your occupation with my assistane, would 3   18      THE FALSE IUARIAGE, OR allow us to live comfortable, and in time we would be above want and independent of father or any one else. Bending over the beautiful form he added, be kind and true, and love me, and your trust shall never be betrayed. It seems my very existence depends upon your love, with you to guide through the world. Now we shall be the hap- piest two in tltis great bleak sphere. Seeing her silent he went on: I will be true to you, and I know you will be a faithful and loving companion for me, and I will be, even beyond the grave. I never will forsake you. And now Zella, as you are about to enter into an impor- tant and interesting history in the period of your life, and I cannot doubt it will long be recorded in your mind, with the pleasant recollections of the past. I am hereafter to look to you for council and direction, and you to me for co- operation and support in the duties I have committed to your hands; and changing his position slightly, and knc3l- ing at the feet of the beautiful maid, and taking her hands in his, added, let there be a perfect unity of sentiment be- tween us, or if there must be a difference let it be of emu- lation, in the exercise of those good qualities, while they dignify our nature, add lusture to the highest, and beauty to the lowest stations. Let the precepts of morality and the streams of fervent piety, which are continually ascend- ing from our head, repress every unkind thought, and soothe every asperity of feeling. Let us both remember that as husband and wife we should be children of humility, in our lives and conversation, so illustrate the beauty and excellence of our character, that the world may exclaim how good and how pleasant for " husband and wife" to dwell together in unity. But what will the world say? inquired Zella.   THE BROKEN PLEDsBD       19 Zella, this is the will of him who rules all things, that with well doing you put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. You would be as free, and not using your freedom as a cloak of maliciousnessbut as the servant of God, hon. or all people, love your husband, fear God. Zella had been silent as if in deep meditation. She had never heard such language from the lips of mortal man; and they were to her like dew to a parched earth, drinking in every word, every glance, from those spark- ling orbs, 'till she was almost lost to all else but the terrible temptation of Clarence Alderman's beautiful speeches. But mastering her momentary weakness, she asked, with innocent simplicity, how, Callie would you treat me were I good to mind? With humility. Zella, said he, quoting from his favorite author, a "man with a haughty spirit is daily adding to his enemies, he standeth forth as the Arab in the desert, and the hands of all men are against him; a man with a base mind daily subtracts from his friends, for he holdeth himself cheaply, that others learn to dispise him; but where the meekness of self-knowledge ruleth, the front of self-respect; there look for the man whom none can know but they will honor." TTimility is the softening shadow before the statute of excellence, and lieth lovely on the ground beloved, and lovely as the violet. fHumility is the fair haired maid who calleth worth her brother, the gentle silent muse that fastneth infant virtue. After this extraordinary speech, is it to be wondered Zella De Chalue should waver between the two, the sacri- fice of honor, and all those attributes which are conducing of a womain's happiness and enjoyment, or the flattering speeches of Clarence Alderman.   WS      TH'U h AR 3s B RtAOAUt, Ot She was silent for some time, not daring to look up or cath the glance of those luminous brown orbs, as the words of the poet kept ringing in ier ears, if a " woman hesitates she is lost." But at last mastering her momentary weak- ness, and raising her head with a firm purpose, not daring to look that way, and with a voice that trembled spite her effort to controU it, reples. No Clarence, not so soon if at all at any rate. I must have a little time to consider. You know it is for life, not for a day or a year, but for a life time. Clarence do you understand? Gently laying her hand upon the beautiful curjls and pressing them tenderly, as though they were something too sacred to be poluted even by the touch of one so pure as she. He looked at her in utter amazement; could it be thought she will yet dare to refuse me, and the foiled features of the man lit up with a fierce wild light; and springing to his feet, he exclaimed with marked emphasis. Zella De Chalue, do you refuse me? Do you mean to say you have been toying with a trusting heart? Wildly striking his breast o'er the region of the heart, (where that receptacle should have been, but was undoubt- edly left out in the make up of this man,) and drive me to despair and madness? Oh, Zella, I did'nt dream, it cannot be, you surely will not drive me from you with this decis- ion. Oh Zellal dear Zella, your words have caused me worlds of unuterable anguish! I am very, very miserable. I can- not talk any more to night. If this is your decision, Zella, I hope God may forgive you. My life is now ablank, I will find relief from the cold world! I will end my days in a few short hours; and pacing up and down the little sitting room he said, and now good bye, perhaps forever.   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.        21 May your life sky remain'unclouded, and your path be strewn with roses. Giving her his hand, which was icy cold, and with the other wiping the great beads of prespa- ration from his brow. May God forgive you Zella, and be- fore she could speak was gone.   CHAPTER II. INCOGNITO. Come in the evening, come in the morning, Come when you'r looked for, or come without warning, Kisses and welcome you'll find there before you. UnsNowN. He passed quickly down the gravel walk and entered a dark alley, and had proceeded through several blocks, when he was accosted by a familiar voice. How now Callie, what news? Did your fiancee acceed to your purposes? The voice was that of his friend, Hugie Harlan, who hap- pened to be passing that way at that particular moment.- Stoping short and grasping the arm of his friend and confi- dent, replied: No, by (-.) The rest of the sentence was muttered, for just at that moment a low mocking laugh was heard, which caused them to turn to see who the intruder might be, watching their movements at that late hour; but seeing no one, continued on their way. As they retraced their footsteps, a closely mufled figure might have been seen passing quickly within the shadows of the buildings, and apparently intent upon watching their movements as well as their conversasion. They quickened their footsteps, and had nearly reached the residence of Al- derman, senior, when they were interrupted by a noise far   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.       .28 different from what they had heretofore heard. It seemep as though borne upon the winds. They were standing upon a corner of the square, and looking eagerly in every direc- tion, but could disern nothing more than usual. Yet the sounds were so distinctly near as to cause them to start and turn pale in the mellow moonlight. The words, for such they were, seemed weak and hollow, as though spoken with a great effort, and from the grave: Beware! beware! how you trifle with that girl, for if you dare to injure her, she shall be revenged ten fold. Yea, ten times ten thousand fold; and you shall know, shall feel! the full power of revenge! and your black heart shall be lain bare before the world! -and the death of your first vic- tim! and that of your child! the innocent victim of your hellish work! And all be on your head! Fiend, it shrieked! May God's curse rest on you ever, even beyond the grave! You shall never know ought else but the knawing pangs o4 a remorseless conscience! May my curse followyou, and yours forever and ever. And the unearthly sounds died away in a hollow, mock- ing laugh. CI ence Alderman seemed suddenly petrified, turned to ston -the tongue clove to the roof of his mouth; he could not articulate. The words died on his lips, ma- king only hollow sounds! Hugie was the first to break the silence. And grasping the arm of his friend, hurried him from the spot; saying, come Alderman, don't stand there. gaping and listening to the mutterings of the wind or some insignificant puppy who wishes to annoy us and amuse him- self at our expense. Come along, giving him another jerk. which brought him to his senses, and sent him stumbling headlong for several paces. Finding his senses restored, he mutered something about ghosts, and people minding   24      THE IAALBE MARRIASG, OR their own business, and resuming his walk said: Hugie, go home with me, and I will tell you all about my "' Venus." Another mocking laugh, more deathly than the other resounded through the streets, causing Alderman to fairly shake, as with an ague fit. Not another word was spoken by either of the parties until they reached the residence of Alderman, senior, where Clarence again urged Hugic to remain with him over night, pleading a slight indisposition; and as Hugie knew full well this momentary weakness, he entered with him, feeling a slight misgiving at having pledged himself to aid him in his nefarious plot. But once his word given, it was hard to break; and, thinking if it were ever found out, he would turn states evidence, and still be of service to Zella De Chalue. They entered the avenue leading to the mansion, and soon disappeared within the heavy oaken shutters of that magnificent edifice. The hour being late, they adjourned immediately to the sanctuary of Clarence Alderman, where a bright fire burned on the marble grate, throwing a radiant light over the richly carpeted floor. A magnificent chanda- lier threw its softening rays over the elegantly furnished rooms. Drawing an easy chair to the glowing grate, push- ing one forward for his friend, and placing his feet upon the fender, remained in sullen silence for some time. Hugie watched him narrowly for some time. At length producing a cirgarette, he lighted it, and soon the blue wreaths of smoke were ascending and filling the room with light blue wreaths; while ever and anon, he would glance at his friend to note the passing changes there. Well Callie, he asked at last-what conclusion have you come to?   THE BROKEN PLEDG.        .25 I should think by your silence you had matured your plans well. Well, to tell you the truth, I had about given up all hopes, when I was warned by those unearthly sounds out in the street, but now I will accomplish my purpose, or- Well spoken my boy. I am glad to see you are still a man-giving him a slap on the shoulder. Do'nt let the mutterings of the wind or any thing else, change your pur- pose, but tell me all about it Callie; she did'nt refuse you surely? No, not exactly. But she requires time to meditate on my offer. I doubt not she will acceed to my wishes, sooner or later, for you know "if a woman hesitates" she is sure to give o'er at last. Come Callie, he urged, tell me all about it. I am anxious to hear the result. Well, he replied, I will. I saw her this evening, and plead my cause with elo- quence, I imagine-curling his glospy mustache o'er his fingers-but she wished for time to think, and I rushed from her presence, threatening to commit suicide, and leav- ing her to think. I believed her to have rejected my suit. I shall expect to receive a note to-morrow recalling me to her side immediately. With a complaisant smile of satis- faction, he added, but I shall not go as soon as I receive the missive, but return a reply. She thinks father has forbidden this intercourse, and, of course, a girl like Zella De Chalue, will the more readily believe what I have said to her. I must indeed accomplish this or be cut off without a cent, for I have now borrowed on a "French loan" over three thousand dollars, from my father's drawer, and he will miss it sooner or later, and I must endeavor to replace it before the next invoice, and 4   26      THk FALSE MARRIAGE, OB that is not long, it generally comes about the first of May. Now, Hugie, my proposition is this. She will write me sooner or later, and accept your humble servant; and all I ask you to do is simply this; get me a close carriage and a number one team. I will drive to the residence of my fair inamorita, and take her in, and in an hour I will reach the suburb of Fondulac, where I have a friend who will per- form the ceremony, and then taking the road leading east, will in about two hours arrive in the opposite side of town, where I will drive to the Occidental, and there sojourn for the time being. And as soon as I secure what will place me above want, and on an equal footing with the rest of cold humanity, I shall return to my father's, and tell him I have only been on a little excursion of my own for specula. tion, and borrowed a little sum of him, but had now return- ed it with interest, and he will naturally forgive me. And then if I can't help myself, I will marry the former victim; as the voice termed it to night, and if I can't help myself, why I can submit with the best grace imaginable. Ah, indeed, answered Hugie, you have matured your plans well, but they may not succeed so admirably as you imagine. But what do you propose doing with your pretended bride after all this? Ohl she can take care of herself then as she does now. But it will be rather hard for her, will it not? Well, yes, I soppose it will, but if she don't assist me out of this, some one must. I expect it will be rather hard, since she is so young and inexperienced, but she may as well suffer as me; for if some. one don't assist me out of this, I will have to learn a good   =THB nSon   PLUmGs.       2f trade in a not very desirable location, shaking his head with a bitter smile. I wish you to do all you can to assist me.- You must let people infer I have not married, or any thing  of the kind; I will reward you well for your trouble. You will never have cause to regret this little episode. Hugie, she has sufficient to place me above want for the present; bringing his hand down with a heavy blow upon the arm of a chair. And I will have it; rising and pushing a table towards the fire; placed glasses and a bottle of sparkling catawha thereon, and filling the glasses, passed one to his friend, and taking the other, said let's drink to my success, and that of my future life, and at a gulph swal- lowed the contents, placing the glasses upon the table, pro- duced cigars, and together they whiled away an hour of the morning, for it was now in the we small hours of the night, regardless of the lateness of the hour, chatting and lafghing at the prospects of the future, and wondering if there Was any danger of detection. And at last Hugie asked, CalIie, why don't you take her to some far off land, where she will not soon return. For if you take her money and her wardrobe, why it will be some time before she will be able to return, as she will have' to gh to servitude or starve. For if she should attempt to resume her old occupation she would have to labor in order to accomplish this, to earn sufficient to allow her to pur- chase the necessary material, which from what I can learn, would at least take a month or two, if not longer, at the highest price she could be able to obtain, and then she would have to wait a month or six weeks at least for a return, and then the article might be " rejected," and in the interim you will have plenty of leisure to adjourn to some more convenient locality, where you will be ad libitum to do   28      T  FTHE FALSE ]MAWRRAGM, OR and act as you please and for yourself, regardless of "au- thoreses" or any one else. Very good; I believe I will accept your advice. But Hugie, is there no way I can rid myself of that detes- table Le Terrell? Zounds! I had rather be in " purgatory" than be compelled ,o wed her. But I shall be compelled to. She will sue me for breach of promise yet, and damages, dang her; with another deri- sive laugh. I have now put her off for three years with promises, and I guess that's about "played out" by the tenor of her last letter, I should say it was; it seems like " biz." I will show it to you; and producing a package of letters from his side pocket, looked them over carefully, and tossed one to Hugie, saying, read that old boy; and tell me what you think, lighting another royal Havana, puffed the blue wreaths in circling columns through the room. Hugie took the letter and proceeded to read, a portion of which ran thus, and with neither date nor post mark: DEAR CALL:--My patience is nearly exhausted, and if it's ever going to be, I wish it to be done now or never. You know you promised for the first of April, and that is not far distant. Why did'nt you come over last Sunday when I sent for you? Father and mother had both gone to the farm, and I was alone! I looked for you all day, and went to bed at night and cried myself to sleep. Call, it is too bad you should stay away from me and Carrie the way you do, and with only promises. If your father is not willing for you to marry me, you are of age and can do as you please. I heard father telling mother to-day he would give us the farm if you would marry me, and cover up this disgrace.-   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.        29 O, how nice it will be when we get married and are sitting around our little fire place, with sweet little Carrie in the middle. Oh! how happy I shall be. (I will leave out a por- tion of this letter, as it's altogether too simple for the pub- lic.) Call, if you do'nt marry me 'tween this and the fourth of July, I will have you arrested-and if you don't come to time, I'll make you sorry for it sure; for father will spend every cent he's got if you do'nt. I heard to-day you were going to see that girl thatwrites for the magazines or some- thing else, cause she's smarter I'm be. You'd better not, if I know myself. Come over and see me right off. Carrie calls you every day when she sees you go by. Yours, JESSIE TERRELL.   CHAPTER III. "ThEATIX. "We part, yet still I cling to thee, Fond frenzy of the soul, Yet fear, and feel it cannot be.- Though love would still control. Still brewid myj feefigs with my peace, For this my friendShipnever cease, That WIli be 'ver thine." After the departure of Clarence Alderman, Zella De Chalue sat for several moments as one in a trance; the words of Clarence Alderman still ringing in her ear. At last recovering, her self possession, she sprang to her feet and ran quickly down the gravel with the vain endeavor to discover through the darkness a glimpse of him, and per- haps call him back. She listened attentively for some time, but could discern nothing, and retracing her footsteps to the house, inwardly resolved to write a note, and at the first dawn send it to him. And the thought fairly crazed her poor brain, and she grew sick and faint at the idea, should she be too late. It was late before she retired, the passing events of the evening kept revolving in her mind, chasing sleep from the weary eyelids 'till just as the sun was gilding the eastern horizon she fell into a deep and troubled sleep, nor did she awake till just as she was falling from some height. With a scream she awoke, and springing to her feet she hastily !   Ton asO8KN BIa9p ,       38 attired herself, and going down, summoned the calj boy, and bidding him take the note to Mr. Clarence Alderman, awaited his return with considerable anxiety. It seemed as though he would never return; perhaps it was too late; and the thought almost drove her fFra$ic.- But the suspense ended as all things must; and the mewsen ger returned but brought no reply. The first inquiry was if he had seen him, Mr. Alderman? Yes, but brought no reply. Thank God, she murmur- ed, my hand will yet save the stain of murder. Did he send a reply? No Miss Zella, I think he was not very well, was looking very pale, and looking quite ill: he took the note, and disappeared, within the house, he did- not mention a reply, or tell me to call for it Miss Zella: as he bowed himself out. Time rolled on slowly, but surely for several days, and still no reply: at last tired and sick at heart, she started out for a walk, and as the post office lay in the direction she chanced to walk: when at that recept- acle for the broken hearted; where one and all have the same share of good or evil tidings, she entered, and glaneed nervously at Box 116, when lo! a little white missive was handed out bearing the familiar hand writing of Clarence Alderman. She hastily retraced her footsteps, and not till within the privacy of her own room, did she dare to breath the happiness that fluttered within her breast. Tearing open the envelope she read the contents of the fatal letter, drink- ing in every word, every sentence, as tho' 'tware the "elixer of life," a portion of the letter, we will extract, it was as follows: MY EVR -DEAREsT: Your gentle missive, and white winged messenger of love and peace reached me this morning in safety; and   82      THE FALSE MAERIAGE, OR thank God, I am not forgotten. Oh! the joy it sends me. I have wept, and bedewed your dear letter with tears: yes, dear one, tears of joy. 'T was such a glorious gift to me. Dearest Zella, I would not mar your feelings for the wealth of an Indus; I had not the remotest idea you had the least spark of love for me, at least you told me you had'nt. Zella, Darling, forgive me won't you? I will recall all I have said that injures your feelings. No, no, not changed; but love you now more than ever if it were possible. You are not cold hearted, I did not intend to accuse you of such a thing; No, far from it after what you tell me; that you love me bet- ter than life itself, and that you did not intend to wound my 'feelings. "My Angel," I did not intend to accuse you of such a thing; no, no, far from it, you say you were al- ways afraid of me, I seemed so dignified before you; If that be true; it was my great love for you: I hope you will not be mistaken in loving me: I think you will not. You ask if I will love you always: Yes, yes, I swear always on my bended knees. You say you do love me a little, and ask if I care. No, dearest, no; love me with all the ferven- cy of your heart, for if you trifle with me the sting is thine own. Believe you, yes; why should'nt I, when I always thought so; but that you would not own to it. You are all right; it is lonely in this great bleak world alone; for rhave tried it a long time, and always found it so; and if I will still love you? Yes, dearest, with my whole heart and soul. Zella, dear, tell, I meant not to be wayward; I would not have you unhappy, not for the wealth of the Indies.- No, no, it shall not be so, far from it, after what you tell me. Yes, dear one, I do 'think the same of you, and perish my right arm if I betray the trust you have asked! What can you do to regain my love?   WM BBOK  c PXUD6.a       33 Now, dear Zella, don't think for a moment, I ever ceased to love you, or I ever can. I ask you to do nothing but keep on loving me. I think there is nothing dishonorable about that. You say you will be my bride if I wish, from the bottom of my heart; I do. I have thought of the respon- sibility often, and have come to the conclusion that it will be a pleasure to me; as for your conditions, I accept them all. My love, I will come and see you as soon as it is pos- sible for me to do so. I am nearly wild to see you; try and not be lonely, for there are better times coming for you and me. Zella, precious one, I do'nt harbor one thought of your infidelity; no, dear one, I have not the least suspicion you are not true to your word. On the contrary, I believe youare all perfection; I shall never abstract our love. I ,am as firm as a rock, and my love as lasting as life. Yes it's a glorious gift to me; how can I ever repay you for it? With the same, I accept your promise. You say you know your thoughts are often with me; I had hoped that such was the case, and thank you for the words. Oh! dearest of earth, you know not what joy, what gladness those few words have given unto me; how sweet a thing is faith, is it not? Love me, love me long; say that you will be mine; I will do my duty faithfully as your husband; I will try to make the remainder of your life happy, and I trust when the last day shall some to us both, we shall be united with our loved ones in a better world than this. And let me some moments cherish, Of the heart's enkindled flame, Lest thy love should seem to perish, And thou should forget my name. My pearl, excuse me for writing in this sad strain, but I feel gloomy and sad without thee. But thank God, we 5   34      THE FAL8E ,ABRRAG'), O0 shall soon meet-this alone reconciles me to the loss of your dear society; write to me often; it seems a long while between the receipts of your letters. Don't keep back that tender secret; let it come forth in all its simplicity. Tell me first what your heart dictates. I have re-read your letter, and am still of the same opin- ion as before reading it, and want your promise. You say you will grant it, perhaps. Oh God! Zella, dear Zella, give me your promise; I know that you will keep it. Be mine, say that you will be mine forever, I swear eternal fidelity. I have asked you to be mine 'till "death doth us part;" but before you do so weigh the matter well, as you say it's for a life time. Let there be no deceit about it, that is, don't deceive yourself about me; try and know me, and my circumstances. I think I* know yours already. What I have written to you I never before wrote or spoke to woman, so help me heaven. You are the only one; I feel now that you must be the last, whether you unite your destiny with mine or not. Then followed an account for the arrangements fqr the future; and with explicit directions the letter closed, sign. ing himself her devoted, CLARENCE ALDERMAN. An undefiled thrill of pleasure ran through the frame of Zella De Chalue's as she finished reading the letter. Thank God, she murmured, I can yet save him. I did'nt think really he cared so much for me; or I would, not have caused him so much pain, poor fellow; and she set about making preparation and arrangements for the future. She thought she would tell Della, but he had demanded implicit   TH, IJBOKB  PEDGEB       88 secrecy; but that would never do. Still the thought that she was not doing altogether right, caused her to stop and think. Well, said she to herself, after a few moments thought, I will tell her a few moments before I go. Clar- ence wo'nt care, I guess; I will tell her at any rate. When Alderman received the note from the boy, he took the missive, and going in his "pari's" elegant country house, thok a seat, and elevating his feet upon the counter, proceeded to read, a complacent smile played o'er his fea- tures as his eye ran down the page. I thought she would come too and call me back. Now, thought he, I will wait a little before I answer, she will think I am displeased still at the refusal of me; poor, confiding little creature. While a sarcastic smile lit up his features; in the mantime I will see Jossie, and set all things to rights there for the present-arising and passing out, and down the street, in the direction of Miss Terrell's residence. Miss Terrell was the lady whose letter we have read in a preceding chapter. She was a lady whose parents were reputed very wealthy, and whose wealth was all they could boast of. She had been engaged to Clarence Alderman for a period of four years. He had by promises, and every art that man can muster, "lured her on to destruction, and then left her "alone." And as the wretch was not interrupted in his "devilish designs" he now doated on another victim; and with promises to her, his first, kept on in the way "Satan" had laid out for him. When he reached the residence of Miss Terrell he found that little lady in a great flutter of excitement, and threat- ening vengeance on him in every imaginable form. But   aM      'Ptlde BfTa 0A Aitsf i ARRiAe) oK weet peace was soon restored, and placing his arm around her, breathed into het ear a story of love and happiness couched in very elegant terms, and promising the marriage to take place on the 17th of August, but before that time it would be impossible, as then there would be no obstacle to their union. She placed implicit confidence in the honor and integrity of this vile man; and so with promises and kisses he had put her off until his mind had become weak- ened. As he arose to go he asked for the child, and she being brought in, he clasped the tiny thing in his arms and gazed long and earnestly upon it. The soft brown eyes were turned to his with a mild pleading look-the soft waves of golden hair were caught back by aband of blue velvet; the beautiful rose-bud mouth and dimple chin were altogether a beautiful picture, and the heart of this fiend in human shape glowed and softened for a moment; thein the ruby lips parted, and in infant lips these'words came forth: "Papa wont'o 'oos Jossey, mamma, her 'try so? Mamma heart all brok't to pecy, 'tes papa heber 'tom here." Hush child, said he, with a frown; I must go now. Give me a kiss Carrie, I am going away now, and you must be a good little girl, 'till I come back. Good bye Jossie, giving her his hand; remember I will be back at that time, and then before the world you shall be my wife. Giving her a kiss and another hand pressure, and they parted, he to his hellish work, and she to her room to weep.   CHAPTER IV. SECUNDEN ARTEM. Oh, ye weary days that glide along, Yet pass so slowly to my soul. Have ye hours of coming joy? Oh, bear me heavenward to that goal, Where earthly troubles caase. Oh, the weary hours, they pass away, Yet each to me their trials bring; Oh, lead me to that happy life, To which my spirit clings * And sighs to gain. Prom the morning when they had parted in anger, and Zella had left him in scorn: they were indeed strangers: he seditiously avoided the haunts she had loved to frequent for her sake. But if by accident he chanced to meet the -yearning reproachful tenderness of her gaze, it thrilled his heart to the core: but as the evil of his nature was super- ior to the good, if there was any, it overbalanced all other thoughts. Oh, the anguish of hours, to Zella Alderman. The hours seemed years. And long after Clarance Alderman had re- tired for the night did Zella remain in the room, pale as marble, While ever and anon the pearly tears would course each other down the velvet cheek and lay like crystals on   88      TIME tdSU MAAUIIAO, oi the little white hand, crossed so meekly in her lap: she had all her life been a devout christian, and was an old school methodist, and now her religion proved a great stay to her in her affliction: this was the chief source of all her conso- lation. Sorrow and affliction to the mind are like narcotic drugs: when taken into the mind in small doses, are pow- erfully sedative, and often throw the mind out of balance: this being-the case, is it to be wondered, that the mind of Zella Alderman, after so sudden a change, should become somewhat changed, and a frenzied desire for revenge should seem to have taken possession of her; She remained per- fectly sane on all other subjects but this one; and a strang- er would have noticed nothing peculiar in her action, unless at the mention of the one who had so cruelly wronged her, robbed her of all earthly happiness, the beautiful eyes would flash, and the breath would come in quick gasping sobs; as she turned away to hide the tears she could not hide. They were at the time of Clarance Alderman's disclosure of his vilany sojourning in Washington, D. C., where they had gone on a wedding tour; after the elopement. They had been wedded some three months, when this disclosure was wade. Zella could hardly believe it was as Calhe had said, but as the morning dawned, and she heard him giving orders to valet, a true reality of her position dawned upon her: and arising and bathing the aching head in iced water, and hastly doning an elegant morning robe, that he might not suspect her of not having retired. With. trembling foot- steps ventured to rap on the door, before entering.\ A cheery good morning greeted her ears as with a plea- sant smile, he held out his hand for her. But she hesitated, and seeing this Clarence said, come Zella, haven't you a   TBE BEROKEN PLEDGE.       39 word of kindness or a God-speed me, e'er I go to seek an- other, a richer and fairer bride? You are free to go when and where you choose and mingle in watever society you please without any such restraint as it seems I have placed upon your action: it seems you are not contented nor satisfied: if I had only known in time, and the beautiful lips quivered, she murmured: You should never have been placed in this position, never. Oh woman, you are an enigma indeed, and wise would be the man that can solve you. We men flatter ourselves in thinking we can fathom you, lay open your fluttering hearts, peer in and transcribe every thing they contain. But oh! vain conceit, how feble is the pen that would dissect your feeling or motives; like a gordian knot they are wound up for us poor men to break our necks in untying or undoing. She thought she loved him with undying affection, not- withstanding his having caused her so much sorrow; and yet to be, many a heart ache. When the emotions which had been aroused for a moment in the heart of Zella by Clarence Alderman's last speech had subsided sufficiently to allow her to speak, she said: Yes Callie, I do love you. I have ever enjoyed more real hap- piness in your society than ever before since my entrance into society, and believe I ever could, should you still con- tinue to be so kind as you have ever been; but men are often changeable, a thing you will have to admit; and she was prevented from proceeding father by Alderman spring- ing to her side and exclaiming with enthusiasm: "My Princess," can it be possible for you for a moment to doubt my fidelity? Oh! did I but possess power, that I might open this heart and allow you to read for yourself the sen- timents of a heart that beats only for thee; then every fear   40      THE FALSE MARRIAGE, OR would be dissipated. No, my angel, the love I have for you can never change. Oh, how could you for a moment allow such a thought to take shape, and for an instant shade the brightness of your understanding. I, who would willingly snap the vital cord and lay lifeless at your feet, if it would in the least augment to your happiness, or be conducive to your enjoyment. No Callie, I did'nt say I doubted you; I only said men are often changeable, a thing you will have to admit. To this Alderman made no direct reply, but placing his arm around her form, pressed burning kisses upon the cherry lips of his so-called wife. She gave way entirely to her emotions, and resting her head upon his shoulder, and with eyes that spoke volumes, replied with a sweet smile: Oh! dear Callie, I thought it must be a delusion, and you was only trying my strength and friendship to the utmost. Oh, you cannot imagine the anguish of last night. But why did you put me to this test, such a cruel test? Oh, Callie, do tell me all, and ease this aching heart, or I shall go wild. Zella, how could you for a mement doubt my love for you? It was only a little ruse after all, to test your friend- ship and affection for-me; and I did not think it would affect you to such an extent as it appears to have done. Oh! I am glad you have reassured me, for I could not possibly have passed another twenty-four hours as the past has been. Well darling, replied Clarence, raising her head from its resting place, upon his shoulder, it is growing late, and the train leaves at ten thirty, A. M., and we shall be obliged to make haste or we shall be late for the up train.   TEE BROKR  PLEDGE.       41 After this welcome tiding is it to be wondered that the heart of Zella Alderman was somewhat lightened, to find it was only a little ruse after all; and with a light heart, she set about the perparations for their return to their native village. When all was prepared, and they were awaiting the arri- val of the train that was to bear them to their destination, Zella turned to Clarence with. the question: Callie, why did'nt you tell me you were going to leave me alone and among strangers? Why did you repeat those cruel words which you knew would cause my heart many an ache, why this sudden departure for home, without a days notice? Zella, I have been intending to return home for several days, but I thought to give you a little surprise; and then the idea struck me to test your friendship a trifle. This was said with a half smile, while a triumphant'smile lit up his features, making him look the villain he was. With a slight shudder she replied, very well, but you have not yet told me what calls you home so sudden. Oh yes, I had almost forgotten to tell you, I had a letter from father requesting my immediate return to the pater. nal roof; he has forgiven us, Zella, and gladly calls us back to the paternal rooffhome. I will show you his letter, and drawing a package from his side pocket, proceeded to look them over, to find one purporting to be from his father.- After some deliberation he seemed to have found the de- sired parchment; and tossing it to Zella, replied, you can read it at your leisure Zella watched him narrowly, bul could discover nothing peculiar in his actions, and opening the letter proceeded to read the contents, while Clarence turning to the window, 6   42       THE FALSE MARBIAGE, OR looked carefully down the street. After a few moments, turning to Zella, remarked, I will go out and see that our bagage is safely checked, and you can wait my return. I will return in half an hour, and see you safely on board the cars myself; in the mean time make yourself as comforta- ble as possible, giving her a kiss as he started out. As Zella read the letter, a smile of pleasure lit up the beautiful features, and ever and anon, she would murmur how kind of him; I believe I shall love him almost as well as though he were my own dear father. "So shall we down life's river glide, Each rose lined shore our eyes alluring, Stout steming evety adverse tide, Until we stop heaven's morning." But not so with Zella Alderman; her sorrows were not at an end. Long she watched and waited in vain for the return of Clarence Alderman, yet he came not. As the hours dragged slowly by she began to realize her situation. He had indeed left her; left her among strangers to battle with the cold, uncharitable world alone. Alone! alone! how dreary to be alone. An inexperienced girl to battle with cruel fate; and often would she murmur: Along my dreary pathway, There bloom no roses bright, For every bud of promise Has fallen 'neath the blight. Yet not a hand will gather the blood-drops as they fall, Or friendly ear will listen unto my anguished call. And at last gave way entirely to her emotions; and the bright tears welled up from an aching heart, were but slight   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.        4 relief to Zella Alderman in her sorrow, as she watched and waited in vain for the return of him who came not. Oh! the unutterable anguish of wilful desertion to a faith- ful trusting heart. You who have suffered can sympathize with Zella Alderman in her peculiar position; left in a land of strangers, penniless and unprotected, far from all that would make life pleasant and agreeable. Long she waited for the return of one she loved, and longed to call by that endearing name of husband; and when the twilight shad- ows depened in the little sitting room, and the servant came in to bring light, he found Zella Alderman lying upon the sofa, her hair disheveled and torn, and clutching wildly at the beautiful curls, and tearing thenP out by handfulls, while the soft brown eyes had in them a look of such terrible fear, while they were now like living coals, and often would she murmur some incoherent sentence. The servant ran wildly down stairs, screaming, "there was a woman in Mr. Alderman's room tearing like mad."- It soon aroused the household, and in less than ten minutes the little sitting room was crowded to its utmost, every one bent on ascertaining the cause of this sudden alarm. The proprietor of the hotel De Note, a very august personage, with a genial countenance, whenever it suited his fastidious taste, a kind smile would light up his comely features, and hearing the cries of alarm hastily made his way into the crowded sitting room, and seeing Zella in her frenzy, waiv- ed them back with a gesture of his hand, and restored the room to a perfect quiet in a few moments. Then ringing for a servant, ordered a physician immediately. After in- stalling a nurse in the sick room, and leaving orders for per- fect quiet, and to bathe the aching head of the sufferer in ice water until the arrival of the medical man, the proprie-   "      THE IAJ,8E MABRIAGE, OR tor adjourned to the reading room, where the arrival of some gents kept him for some time so occupied as to en- tirely forget the invalid, wpen the arrival of the physician caused him to hurry to the sick room: With a motion of his fingers he pointed to the sick room, and returned to the office, leaving him alone with the patient. Upon examining her pulse, and for a moment placing his fingers upon the throbbing temples, the doctor pronounced it brain fever, brought on by some terrible excitement,which he said, shaking his head seriously, might prove fatal. Leav- ing some powerful sedative and orders for perfect quiet, the doctor went below, leaving Zella in a heavy deathke stupor, which to wake. might prove fatal. Going to the proprietor he made several inquiries regard- ing Mrs. Alderman, but Major Snow knew nothing father than that Mr. Alderman that morning paid his bill and that of his wife's in advance, stating business called him away for a short time, and had left her that morning in very good spirits; as far as he knew. The doctor shook his head gravely muttering " something wrong, something wrong." *   *   *    *   *   *    *   * Among the guests that had come on the evening train might have been seen 'one who paid particular attention to the conversation of Major Snow and the doctor. At the mention of the name of Alderman, a perceptable shadow flashed athwart his handsome features; and after the doctor had passed out he made several enquiries respecting Mrs. A. After a few preliminaries, he was shown into the sick room. Day after day he watches for a change, if ever so light, and almost crazed with despair, had about given up all hopes; on going to the door he was informed she had fallen into a deep sleep, from which she must not be awakened,   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.        46 and the nurse shook her head with a significant expression. He turned away with a heavy heart; long after, when he again ventured to the sick room, he was informed Mrs. A. had awoke to conciousness, and with a glad, loving smile; had asked for the dear, .loving face who bent over her so often, haunted her dreams, thinking it must surely be Callie, was Callie. Yet with a vague shadow of doubt, she thought, I will love all that worthly love the beautiful, the good. But Elsie, the nurse, put her back with gentle force, upon the downy pillows, saying not now, Mrs. Zella, you shall know all soon; be quiet and try to gain a little rest, for you are sadly in need of it. She turned wearily upon her downy pillows, and with a weary sigh closed her eyes, and lay for a long time, appa- rently in deep sleep.. Her thoughts would often revert to what had once taken hold upon it. The course of her life had been too varied to admit of uniformity. She scarcely knew how the days passed, they were so marked, and alas, so changed. The days draged slowly by, and as she began to slowly recover, a desire to know all, to know the worst, to know whose kind, loving face had watched for a change, if ever so slight. When she had recovered sufficiently to be able to go out into the little sitting room, Elsie wheeled her chair out where she might gaze out, have a good view; gaze out at the smiling blue heavens, and the beautiful stream flowing on its calm path to the sea, at all basking peace around her, and prayed with a prayer that seemed like a loud demand that she might not be forced into slaying with her own hands all her future happiness, (if fate had any in store for her.)   ",     THE FALSE MABRIAGE, O . When Elsie noticed the bright tears gathering in the tear- dimed eyes and roll slowly down the pale cheek, she ven- tured to ask if dear Mrs. Zella would see the gentleman who had done so much towards restoring her to life and health. No, she replied, I will not! I cannot see any one, I know what I must not do. Elsie you must not leave me, you must always remain with me, share my lot, let it be good or bad, drawing her to her side, and placing their arms around each other, they pledged eternal friendship, those two lone women. And now we must entertain the reader a few moments with a slight description of our nurse, Elsie, in whom Zella has at last found a friend. She was slight and pretty, a slender sylph like form, soft waving bands of glossy black hair, and eyes of midnight darkness, tender and thoughtful in their expression when unaroused, but when aroused to anger there seemed a thou- sand demons lurking in the beautiful orbs. From the first she had felt a sort of pity for Zella Alder- man, and on hearing a part of the sad history from the in- coherent mutterings while she lay in that helpless condi- tion; therefore she the more readily accepted the offer of a friend and sister, her own being that of an orphan. She was an Italian and inherited her disposition from the sunny climes of her native country. As they remained clasped in each others embrace, Elsie again asked:. Zella, I have some news, good news, I trust, yes good news for you; taking up a book and idly turning the leaves, Mr. -- is here, and wishes to see you. Shall I show him up?   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.    .    4 The heart that had been beating so mildly, seemed sud- denly to stand still. No: she answered, with or without her own will-it does not matter: Yet knowing all the while she must and could; she imagined all the while: he like the rest, had only watched through those weary days and nights, for a return of life, health and strength, only to torture her; with ago- nizing doubt and fears, and perhaps to drag her down to the lowest depth of degredation, and destruction; and her heart echoed the words:-as she kissed Elsie, and tried to be pa- tient and forget. Zella, continued Elsie, still bent upon her missson, would you like a little time to consider? I need not show him up till to-morrow, or perhaps the next day. After a momonts hesitation she replied; Yes, Elsie, I will see him, if I must, I might as well; still thinking, perhaps it might be Callie; and in her heart she had made a resolve, in which after the struggle she had passed through, was a severe trial to her inexperienced as she was. Elsie rose deliberately but did not go: seeing her hesitate, she asked, are you going? Yes Mrs. Zella, but don't look so sad; I should like to think of you as being perfectly hap- py when I am away, and not let this trouble take you down to that "bourne from which no'traveler ever returns." Zella don't look so sad: try and be more cheerful, there are better days in the future; You know there was never a cloud so dark but it had a silver lining: perhaps the bright side is not far distant: I will put my trust in God, and let fate decree my future: I will abide the consequences: My mind is made up: nothing will change me: not even the powers of the All-wise Creator: with a mild look: "O God! those who have had deliberately to kill their own happiness   48      THE FALSE MARt AGEB, OB to set up the bariers that excludes them from hope, and love, and life will know how hard it is is, will pitty me." It was no wonder, Elsie made a movement of surprise; for she herself wondered to hear the hoarse passion of the once so soft and musical voice. Well Zella, you have simply to choose for yourself: you are best able to judge: for myself I will simply say, I never thought or cared for the future: the present is for what I live: It is not for me to judge: I leave it for your jurisdic- tion and judgement. *You have my answer: show him up she replied. Elsie went out, and in a few minutes returned with the stranger whom she introduced as Mons. Le Due: stealing a glance at Zella, she perceived a vivid blush or a smile, and then stole out and left them alone. Then Zella sat still because to move was out of the ques- tion; so when he came up sat still and held'out her hand, and tried to utter a greeting: although the lips only moved and no sounds escaped them. His hand, as he held it oit shook ever so slightly but it held hers in a firm pressure for a moment, and there was both pain, and shocked surprise in his face; then he began- I hope I have not come unexpectedly: I hope Elsie prom- ised to tell you-to ask you: did you guess why I would see you? he asked with that directness of speech, she re- membered so well. Yes she answered with a winning smile, if it did not belie her heart. Of course, I could have but one idea in wishing to see you again; he went on quickly. But ah! Zella, what will you say to me this time? Zella, I must call you so; did your nurse tell you what I said to her yesterday? She let me infer it. Infer fiddledee, infer nothing, there's nothing   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.        49 like plain speaking he replied, impetuously: but you'r so cold and unlike your own self, Zella, that I cannot take it for just what I came to ask: did Elsie tell you yesterday that Clarence Alderman has returned home and is now mar- ried to Jossie Terrell, the girl of his former love; and, Zella! Zella! what have I said, what is the matter? She halted, despised herself for being so weak-but the mortal strength of those, of other days, were not done yet, and she could not bear to hear of the man, the one she had loved so long, and so deeply, of his transferred affections, to this one of all others, and remained unmoved.' Involuntarily she grasped the arm of her chair for support; for life seemed fading from her in that terrible struggle. Frank Le Due bent over her and raised the faint head to his broad chest, but she shrank from him feebly, saying it it is nothing, I am often faint, I am quite well again. You were saying-yes go on Mr. Le Duc. I was saying-Zella, I think I need not go-oh? you are so changed; he said, looking down at her with sorrowful perplexity. Elsie led me on to hope, but I had ought to have known better. You care iot for the future, or for what I might do for you, or what I might have sacrificed for you in the past. Surely, surely, that by-gone ought to be a by-gone she cried. If you say that it ought indeed, turning abruptly from her. But I told you then I should never forget you; and from something your nurse said, I was wild enough to hope I might yet be of service to you. Something of light was breaking in upon her that crazed the poor brain for a moment as he spoke. 7   50      THE PAtBS IIABBIAGE, ft Frank, said she, what did you come here to-day to ask me? The samne question, with a few variations, I did three months ago.   CHAPTER V. ,OBNwS VOLBN8. "The world we know holds many a tale of love and joy and woe; Add trqly each poor heart its own sad bitterness doth know. s The last fond hopeis blighted, like autumn leaves, withered andq sear, And my heart in darkness benighted, sends its agony out in a tear." 'Namely, can I be of any service to you, my dear Miss Zej.? She made no reply, but sank back upon the velvet cush- ion and tried to shut out the world and its trouble. Seeing her thus, he ventured to say, I hope I may be of service to you, as you are one sorely in need of it. And now, Miss Zella, if you will allow me, I will let you into a little secret, which I am almost sure will almost please you, and perhaps be of service to you. The weary eyes unclosed and fixed themselves upon the opposite wall; she replied go on MDr. Le Due, I am all atten- tion. He looked at her, what should he do to arouse her from that lethargy? He had almost began to despair; after a few moments he added, speaking rather sharply: Zella, I would like to know what you intend doing? You surely don't intend to remain in this position long. I shall establish myself as your lawful guardian; and you must look to me for the present.   52      =TE rALSA MABBIAOE, OR Nol no, she cried mildly, for the first time arousing her- self; no I cannot. I will go to work as soon as I am able, and as soon as possible shall return; and if he is married I will malke him repent in sackcloth and ashes; he shall know the full power of a "just retribution," he shall know my power then. Well spoken; Zella, said Frank, I am glad to see you have a little spirit left yet. But Zella, I cannot allow you to labor while I have life and health and strength left me. I will place a sufficient amount at your disposal for your immediate wants, and that done, you will have sufficient time to arrange your plans for the future. No, no, Mr. Le Due, pride forbids that I should receive from your hands. You remember doubtless our last conver- sation, and never mind that Zella; I am your friend now, and shall be while life lasts. My life. could not be spent in a better cause than in endeavoring to promote the interest of your happiness, and in a measure retaliate the wrong im- posed upon you. I will tell you my idea of justice in this affair, taking it for granted she had accepted his generous offer. As soon as you are able to travel we will return, and go to the nearest village, and there you may remain, retired from the busy world, while I will obtain the most skillful attorney, and placing the proofs in his possession will await the result. I think I can obtain sufficient proofs of his villany to send him to the village of Wapun, or some other convenient locality, while you will receive suffi- cient damages to establish yourself again, and'bring your reputation to its former standing. And if justice can't be done, then you can retaliate as you choose, but mine would   THE BROKEN PLODG  .       83 be something that would cause him to remember forever. And a dark look settled o'er the handsome features of Frank Le Due. What proof have you Mr. Le Due of what you say, since you have told me so much, you can doubtless tell me more, then I shall be better able to decide what course to pursue, she asked, becoming quite interested in his remarks. Sufficient to establish what I have said Miss Zella. But Frank, he will try to prove it's a falsehood, and per- haps succeed; and in that case I would be worse off than before, she added, with a bitter smile. Then you have the others to resort to, and he added, his features working convulsively, if there was power on earth he should yet feel the power of woman. I will remain true to my words. You shall never be betrayed, not if my life pays the forfeit. No Zella, never! arising and pacing the floor nervously. Zella watched him for some time, then she replied, if you think there is no doubt but we will come out conquers of this terrible misunderstanding I will accept your advice. We can but try, and I think it best. Very well, as soon as I am able to return. It will be a week at least before I will be able to go to work, and then it will be at least a month before I will be able to return. Oh, if I could only write, but my poor head aches so badly. Oh, so terribly. Oh dear, and the tired head sank back upon the velvet cushion, and the weary eyes closed. A look of anxiety flashed athwart his handsome features as he gazed at Zella; going up to her he took the thin wast- ed hands in his, and gazing down at her pale worn cheek, he asked: Zella, why will you still persist in this weakness?   U6      THX RAWe uMAOUga, O0 My poor afeing though small is gratuiteus, and while I hav, a fsr$hing I will divide with you. I have taxed your friendship to the utmost already, Mr. Le Duo. No, shaking her head sadly; Elsie will remain with me, and divide her earnings with me, until we are able to return, which will not be long I trust. Then you intend to take your nurse with you. Yes, Elsie has no home of her own, and she has been very kind to me. I will not desert her now; that would indeed seem cruel. He made no direct reply, but turning away, resumed his walk up and down the room. Elsie entered bearing a letter to Mrs, Alderman, saying you must not keep my patient up too long, or she will be unable to set up to-morrow It all. Then perhaps I had better go, said hes turning to depart; but as if forgetting something, he turned and said to the nurse, Miss Elsie, will you come down to the parlor at half past eight, I wish to speak with you a few moments. She nodded assent. And bidding Zella be of good cheer, went out, leaving the two alone. When alone with the nurse, she tore open the envelope, and read its contents. Her features glowed with a radiant light as her eye ran quickly down the page of that elegantly penned note. Thank God, she murmured, he's my own dear husband, and I will go to him immediately. I will accept Mr. Le 'wc's generous offer, apd return it when I get home, lsie, she called, and going to her Elsie saw the excite- ment under which she was laboring. What is it Zella?   THB BROKEN PLEPGB        5 Oh I have been blaming Mr. Alderman wrongfully. He stepped upon the platform of the train to see about our bag- gage that morning, and the train started bearing him away. He will come on the first train. Elsie smiled, but carelessly asked the date of the letter. It bears no date, he was in too much of a hurry to think of dates; he will be here soon, looking eagerly towards the door. He will never come; Zella that letter was only a ruse. Elsie; (and the voice was coldand distant,) don't say that, Mr. Alderman would not willingly cause me a pang for a moment Oh! the poor trusting heart. Alone was I left in my sorrow, no heart to give cheer to my own; but bright are the hopes that to-morrow, lightly will shine on my home; Oh! how happy when once again with the loved ones. Elsie do you not rejoice at the pros- pect of the future; and the beautiful eyes had in them a look of such perfect trust. Let fate do her worst, I will be happy still. What a pity, 'twas a perfect shame I made such a goose of myself, said she with a gay musical laugh, which sounded more like the joyous happy Zella of other days. Elsie go and tell Mr. Le Due of our good fortune, and relieve his mind of the delusion, that has taken possession of it. Stay, I will go myself: she started to her feet, made an effort to move, but the room swan; a mist came before her eyes; she would have fallen if not for the timely assist- ance of her nurse. Oh dear; she cried, when she had re- covered sufficiently, will I ever be able to leave this wreched place? It seems like a century since he went away; with   56      THR FALSRE vAIbTAOG, OB a weary sigh the eyes closed, and the hands that had in vain been trying to steady themselves upon the arms of her chair, fell limp, and weak in her lap. e You had better lay down Mrs. Zella, and get a little rest, or you will not be able to go for months; and to try and compose yourself and your mind, and so saying she assisted her to her couch; and pouring out some dark looking drops from a small vial, insisted upon her taking it, to give the invalid a little rest. After she had administered the drops she seated herself at the bedside of the invalid and awaited the result. 'Twas a beautiful, yet withall a sad picture; that young and beautiful girl a wreck of her former self; and but a few short weeks since this had been accomplished, by one who styled himself her husband and protector. O, man; you are indeed a wretch, and willingly would I revenge myself upon you were I in his place: thought Elsie as she gazed at the pale beautiful face of the invalid, with its wealth of auburn curls, scattered in rich profusion o'er the pillows, at the dark eyes half closed; and the beautiful, lips as the sleeper now and then uttered some incoherent sentence; and bending down, she caught the sound of a name that brought the color to her face; as she hastily arose, and going down to the parlor, she found Mr. Le Due waiting: and without any preliminaries addressed him, tel- ling him of the letter, and its contents; adding, it's prob- ably all a ruse, for it bore neither date or post mark and doubtless has been written weeks: but she will not believe anything I tell her, and what am I to do? I don't know, the letter that just came, should have been here weeks ago; but she does not think of this, exclaimed Elsie, her eyes are   THU BBOK BN PL&VPe.        57 all ablaze, and her dark features lit up with a wonderous light. She is wonderously beautiful, thought Le Due, I wonder I never thought of it before; making room for her upon the sofa, he said, be seated Miss -Endeline: we will see if we can't arrange this little affair satisfactory. You tell me he has written or caused to be written a letter to--did you. bring the letter? Yes, in her exitement she let it fall, and I took advantage of this opportunity to secure the same, that you might be better able to judge, producing the let- ter, and giving it to him. At a glance, his eye run down the page, taking in its full meaning; tossing the letter across the table, added hump, I wonder if he thinks that will tell well; the rascal; I am too old a bird, to be caught with chaff or allow Miss Zella to either. Miss Endeline, I will try to tell you in my poor broken language, what I propose doing; as she is so fixed in her determination; as soon as she is able to travel we will go and see for ourselve: I don't think it will be a hard matter to prevail upon her to wait near there somewhere, and un- awares announce her arrival, and if he don't run from her I will give up, and say-- Well, replied Elsie, what shall we do for the necessaries of life; while we are wait- ing this disclosure. Well, well, haven't I? no-here Miss Elsie, I have made all necessary arrangements, handing her a roll of bank notes;. I tried to day to prevail upon her to accept this, but she would not, and now you can take it and put it to the best use you can, for her; but if she insists upon returning it; tell her she can whenever she becomes reconciled with 8   6r T   ,E ALWS kIAHk, 6B Mr. Alderman; which he added will never be. NOW go and tell her, your charges when she awakens; we have art ranged all satisfactorily; and as soon as she is able to, we'll return; take care not to mention anything which will ar- rouse her suspicions in regard to Alderman's conduct; when she sees for herself. You will see it is far better than otherwise; then she will become resolved; fully determined; it will need neither you or I to decide for her; then all we can do is-to do her bidding; for when once aroused she is a very determined woman, and nothing but death alone can change her purpose; and a shudder ran through his frame as he thought what might be. Now go Miss Endeline, opening the door; she may have Awakened, and need your attention.              \ ,   CHAPTER VI. BONAFIDA DEFACTO. Withjoy I hailed his coming, This gift of love divine: From heaven he brought a chain of love, And linked his heart with mine. Well knowing if thus bound in one. Our souls could never part, So when he plumed his wings for flight He took my longing heart. H. D. When Elsie Endeline returned to the room she found Zella up and trying to write a letter to her husband, beg- ing him to come to her, or send her the means to come to him; hut after a few moments conversation with Elsie, came to the conclusion not to write, but accept Mr. La Duc's generous offer, and avail herself of this opportunity of re- turning home to her native village, where Mr Alderman was supposed to be: and take Mr. La Duc's advice in test- ing the friendship of her husband. It was arranged they would return the following week, and arrangements were made accordingly. Mr. Le Duc telegraphed fo a friend and secured the ser- vices of a backman to take them to a small village not far   60      THTE'PALSE MARRIAGE, OR distant from Oskosh; also a neat little cottage, in a very desirable location. The health of Zella improved rapidly, under the change, and ere the day fixed for her departure, seemed almost en- tirely well. At times there would be a patting of the oval cheek, a fierce wild look in the .soft brown eyes, when the delicate fingers would bury themselves in the soft flesh of the little hands, then the shadow would give way to looks of eager expectance. The day of departure came at last and with a joyous happy heart, did Zella Alderman set forth upon her return home: happy in the thought of again beholding the loved ones and the one of all others, to whom the heart fondly clings. They arrived in due course of time at Fondulac on the four-forty train, where the hackman was in waiting to con- vey them to their destination. The three entered a coach and were driven rapidly through the different streets snd alleys, until the coach stoped at the "Pacific House," for more passengers: when leaning from the window to catch a glimpse of what might be outside, she caught sight of a familiar face and form, alighting from an up town buss; she was about to utter an exclamation of surprise, when in another moment, a child of some three summers was handed out, and immediately followed a lady of some three and twenty, and taking the arm of the gentleman proceeded up the the flight of stairs leading to the hotel; she was slight in statue; light hair brushed plainly back from a high broad forehead; dark grey eyes; broad mouth and thin lips and a dark sullen com-   THE BROKEN PLEDG.         61 plexion, constituted the worthy personage; they passed quickly up the broad stair case, and disappeared within the arched entrance of the stately edifice. Seating herself back among the velvet cushions, shivered as though an ague fit had taken possession of her that warm summer morning. Mr. Le Duc had been a silent observer of what had trans- pired, and when Mrs. Alderman sank back among the cushions, he started forward, thinking she had fainted; but she waived him back with a gesture of the hand, and sat perfectly motionless. The coach filled with people, and they were soon whirling away in the direction of Wapun, and not until the stage stopped and the passengers began to alight did Mrs. Alder- man move or speak, then grasping the arm of Elsie whis- pered, don't alight yet, there are too many looking.- Drop your veil, doing the same herself; turning to Mr. Le Due -perceived he had alighted, and was assisting the ladies. Elsie was handed out, lastly came Mrs. Alderman. As she touched Mr. Le Due's hand her fingers closed over his with a death-like grip, causing him to almost cry out with pain. Come, said she, we will go to the hotel and order refresh- ments and also make some arrangements for the future.- They passed within the arched entrance of the hotel, and was shown into a private parlor, when Zella again sank upon a sofa oblivious to all around her, burying her head in her hands, remained perfectly motionless for a long time. Mr. Le Duc ordered refreshments, and tried to prevail upon Zella to partake, but she steadfastly refused; then raising her head she replied, you may order a glass of wine, which when received, she drank eagerly. Then closing her   "      TEB WA5B KA1BINaX, OBn eyss rank back upon the sofa, and appeared wholly oblivi- ous to'all around her. She lay for some time, thus hearing her name mentioned, opened her eyes and glanced around the room, observed, "Mr. Le Due, will you be kind enough to try and secure me a furnished cottage for the season? I shall stay here for the present, or until there is a change." Certainly Mrs. Alderman, that' was my intention when I thought you were fully rested. Oh, Mr. Frank Le Due, do me the favor to never call me by that hateful name again, hereafter you will know me by the cognomen of Zella De Challue. And now Elsie you see we have a desirable location, aris- ing and taking a chair near the window to observe what might be passing outside " en beaumond." The two passed out and down the street, arm in arm, and after traversing a number of streets passed before a little white cottage half hidden by the rich foliage that grew in rich profusion around its entrance. It was indeed a beautiful place, and might well have belonged to the "' faries," as the summer winds wafted the sweet perfume of the flowers to the trav- elers, they exclaimed in one voice; oh, how beautiful, this seems like entering the gates of Paradise, does it not? as they went up the gravel walk leading to the front entrance of the building. On reaching the front entrance of the build- ing Mr. Le Duc produced a key, and placing it in the lock, the door swung open, showing a neatly carpeted hall lead- ing through the house; several .doors opened from this, showing elegantly furnished rooms, finished in elegant style, and might have given credit to a more stately edifice; they passed from room to room, every change calling forth some remarks .of adiration from Elsie. When they had satisfied   THE, BOB  F PULBD  themselves that every thing was in readiness, they seaed themselves upon a divan and commented on the future. What should Zella do, or what could she do? Elsie asked. It was hard to say. But knowing her as he did, he could not help but believe the love she once had for Clar- ence Alderman would now be as bitter hate. They dared scarcely think what the future might be. But let come what will, I will guard her still; for Elsie, said he, she has been a friend to me, and I will desert her never. Ah yes, I love her well enough to perish my right arm in her behalf. A shadow of doubt flashed across the girls face; and had he not been looking at her, would have never given it a sea- ond thought to this last remark. But seeing this he added, do you not think the same Elsie? She made no immediate reply, but dropping her eyes before his ardent gaze, remain- ed silent. Elsie said he, drawing her to him, do- you care for me; am I more than what the world calls a complaisant friend? She did not answer him; but the beautiful head sank lower and lower, and lower, 'til it rested upon his broad chest. Drawing her head up he perceived it was covered with blushes; and noting this, he asked Elsie, do you love me; will you be my wife? She made no answer, but placed her hand in his for a few moments. Then, as if forgetting herself, she replied: No, Mr. Le Duc, it was only momenta- ry weakness, You have just expressed your love for Mrs. Alderman; and I do'nt wish the remnants of a heart. What I want is a "heart that is kind and true; a heart where pa- rity ever dwells, unsullied by one base thought, is a gift I would value more than sparkling gems from the diamond mine, or the pearls of India's shore."   e6      THE FALSE IWAWA14tR, OB Elsie you misunderstand me; I would do all I can to pro- mote the interests of Mrs. Alderman, but to you, and you alone does my spirit fondly cling. Were I satisfied that this was the case, I might perhaps answer differently. Yet it seems so sudden, so unexpected, I can hardly believe you to be in earnest. I was never more in earnest in my life; he replied, taking her hand which she did not withdraw, this time; and she seemed quite willing to unite her destiny with that of Frank Le Due: they concluded if nothing prevented to be united the following morning, in the presence of Mrs. Zella; and then together the little party would take up their abode in the little white cottage. It was arranged that they should enter upon this new life about one o'clock the coming day. As they arose to go Elsie asked if they should inform Zella that eve? Certainly, replied Frank: as soon as we inform her of all other arrangements.  But she may be displeased with me, for so sudden and unexpected a course. Oh no; God bless her, she is not of that disposition; she is a true lady in the full sense of the word; I sincerely hope and trust, that for her sake it may be satisfactorily settled; but God alone knows how this will terminate. As they entered the parlor of the hotel, they found her, Zella, as they had left her, still with clasped hands, her eyes fixed on vacancy; and such a hard fierce wild look in those beautiful eyes.  She did not appear to notice them as they entered, and going up to her, Elsie sliped her arms around her neck, and   T'H BnOKN"PLEDXI. '  stooping down pressed a kiss upon the pale Cheek, befre she seemed aware of the presence of any one, except her- self. Rising she asked, did you secure a residence Mr. Le Duo? I am anxious to get to my own home, as soon as possible. Yes, cried Elsie, and oh, the dearest, sweetest little eot- tage; with climbing roses, and honey suckles, and mignonon. nette, and--and- Well I am glad you are pleased with it; when are we to take possession of it? To mwror w, replied Le Due, for the first time able w speak, for Elsie's ceaseless chattering. Very good, I am glad it will be so soon, as I have a great work to perfom, replied Zella, while in her eyes there gleamed a myriad of strange lights, which although fierce, were beautiful. Oh Zella, cried Frank, let me beseech you to do nothing rash, as your hopes for high heaven. Remember you have a soul to save; and should these little hands, (taking her hands in his,) be stained with blood! Heaven forbid! No, Zella, take a just course of the law, and bring the rascal to justice; and let justice be done. You will feel better for it in the future, when on your dying bed to say, "atther, take me in, for I have sinned not." No Zella, let me advise yot to do nothing ,wrong, and God in heaven will reward you for the victory you will win. No Frank, my course is plainly laid out fop me; I must follow therein. I alone will suffer the punishment, if fter- ited. But if I live I will be revenged upon him. I wilt caus him more unutterable anguish than he is able to eoca- pete with, and be shall know it is me, and still be unable to remunerate for my kind officiousness. Revenge, weet heavenly revenge shall be mine. O, I glory in this work; 9   "      THE FALSE MARYRAGa, OB he gloated o'er my downfall and ruin, and he completed it by this last base act. But thank God, my time has come; I will make the best use of it possible. You have my decis- ion, are you satisfied? Or will you join me in this grand and glorious enterprise? - God forbid that I should do a wrong. But Zella De Chalue, I will do your bidding and keep your secrets if my life pay the forfeit. And if I imay be of service to you I will do so with pleasure. But Zella, let us forget for the present this terrible trouble, and turn our thoughts to something that is about to take place, and without waiting for her to reply continued: Miss Elsie and I have concluded to unite our destinies, with youtr consent; he paused and looked up to see the weight his words had conveyed. She sank back apon the sofa pale as marble, the lips slightly compressed. She sat thus for several mo- ments, then rising and placing the hand of Elsie in that of Frank, she replied, while a tear fell upon them: May your life sky remain ever happy, one beautiful garden of Eden; may you never know the anguish of wilful desertion or un- requited affection. May your life sky remain un'louded, and your path be strewn with roses; may your life so illus- trate the beauty and excellence of your characters that the world may exclaim, how good and how beautiful for hus- band and wife to dwell together in unity. A servant announced dinner and the party adjourned to a sumptuous repast, in which they gave full attention to the rich viands placed before them. After dinner it was arranged that the 'happy couple should be joined in the holy bonds of wedlock on the morn- ig of the next day, and then adjourn to the cottage. '   . CHAPTER VII. AD INFINITUM--HABEAS CORPMS. *  "Now We are met; am I changed since the parting? Look on my eyes; they are very calm now; Quiet the face,/where you used to make sunlight; A few of life's shadows have darkened my brow; Yes, I did love you-with a wild worship-- Made you my idol and fell at your feet; Your will was law, but your hand broke the bondage, And crashed all the flowers that had made life so sweet.". We Will pass over a period of two months, as nothing of importance occurred to mar the inmates of the little white cottages It was night, there was no sounds save the ceaseless tic, tic, ofAthe little gothic clock on the mantle; the moon had gone down, and the stars came out one by one, each sat gloriously on his golden throne. All was quiet within the little cottage, when from out the shadows there glided a dark figure, clad in male attire. He wore a dark brown suit and a small cap of the same color, ornamented with two long white plumes set in silver stars, which rose high in frot of the chapue, and tiped gracefully to the shoulders, whiich might have been called beautiful if not for the terri- bMe hump upon them. He' was small and moved with alac- rity. He approached the stable, turned the key in the   68      THB FALSE MARRIAGE, OR lock and disappeared within the interior of the stable.- Some moments elapsed ere he again appeared leading by the bridle a dark roan horse; closing the doors and turning the key in the lock, addressed the beautiful creature thus: Now Jipsy, patting the creatures neck, we have business on hand. You must be careful. The, horse, as if it under- stood all, threw up and down its beautiful head, pawed the earth as if anxious to be off. Then laying its head over the shoulder of the man, waitedin humble submission for his master's command. He glanced around, and observing no one, produced a small vial containing a thin yellowish fluid, shook it 'till it foamed, and seemed ready to bust, replaced it in its recep- tacle, and producing another of similar size containing a pale looking liquid, and holding it up against the light, seemed satisfied, and replaced it in its former reieptacle; examined a small pair of pistols, vaulted into the saddle and rode carefully down the street and out upon the broad prai- rie; then drawing the bridle up and chirping to the horse, they bounded away, and were soon lost in the gathering gloom. The stars had gone out, and the skies were dark, with swiftly moving clouds, and in the distance could be sen the-vivid flash of lightning and hear the thunder drums, as on, on, they come, It seemed as though the universe was one great ball of fire; as though the Almighty was reeking his vengeance upon the people of this nation, as on, on they came, never pausing to note the fearful elements, 'till they reached the borders of a running stream, where uge bold- ers of rock projected over the stream, and the gigantic oak stretched its long arms to the center of the stream; here he alighted, apd tying his horse to a tree proceeded towars a village not far distant.   TEHB BROKEN PIDGE.        69 Every one, to all appearance, was in the arms of Mor- pheus, as our dancing white plumes proceeded on foot in the direction of Clarence Alderman's residence, keeping in the shadows of the building until he reached the entrance, then dropping upon his face he wound his way steadily up to the house, rising and looking in every direction. Seeing nothing to give uneasiness, he listened at the window for some time; at last as if satisfied with the heavy breathing of the sleepers, saturated a sponge with a choloform liquid and inserted it beneath the widow; leaving it there, fastening it there by some invisible means, leaving the window open sufficient to allow the summer winds to perform this work for him, which it seemed were wreaking their vengeance upon the flowers and shrubery that grew in rich perfusion around the stately edfice. Then creeping stealthily around the building, sprinkled it with a thin yellowish fluid. Again going to the window performed the same operation as be- fore, and awaited the result. He had not long to wait ere the heavy breathing of the sleepers seemed satisfactory, and raising the window sufficient to allow the body to pass, slid into the room. Every thing was perfectly quiet, as though stillness of death reigned supreme. He crossed the room and going to the crib, gazed long and earnestly at the infant sleeper. It was indeed a beautiful picture, and the heart of the hunch back glowed with warm paternal affection, and bending down he softly kissed the infant child; she moved uneasily upon her pillow. And turning quickly he saw he had delayed too long already, and springing to the bed side and with almost superhuman strength hurled him back upon the pillow, and whiping out a glittering blade, curled it around over his head, and with a swift plunge, sent it scalp- ing across the cheek and brow of Clarence Alderman, ma- king a terrible gash, and and severing half a dozen bright   70      TE IALBE MXMRWIARO, 0o curls from his brow; then as quick as a flash of light, pro- duced a sponge and saturating it with the colorless liquid, and applied it to the nostrils of the wounded man. In less than ten seconds he wore the semblance of death. Then gathering up the blood-wet locks crowded them into his pocket, snatched up the still unconcious child from the crib, sprang through the window, and disappeared within the shrubery and deposited the still sleeping child upon the dew-wet grass, soon returned, bearing a handfull of straw, lighted it, and in a few moments had the satisfaction of see- ing the building in flames. In a few seconds he returned to the child, and grasping it in his arms, started on a brisk run in the direction he had come, with a wild prolonged scream started towards where he had left the horse. The lightning increased, and the rain began to fall in great drops; the wind still blowing with increased fury, lent new vigor to the flames, and in ten minutes there would not have been a remnant of the once beautiful edifice or the in- mates to tell the sad tale: but that wild prolonged scream had done its work: sent forth its message as he intended. It was not the intention of the man to coldly assassinate the Alderman family, but to give him something to cause bim to remember for long years to come; kuowing full well that long wild scream would bring relief to the inmates of the mansion, to save them the agonies of being burned alive. As he anticipated, the village was soon aroused and the inmates dragged forth in a semi-unconcious sta4e, being nearly suffocated with smoke as"well as loss of blood. The bride of Alderman was borne insensible to her fath- er's house, and it was long hours before there appeared a   THE BROQWN PLEDGE.        71 return of life, then the ghastly face of her husband, and terrible gash on his brow, caused her to relaps intoa for- mer state. When she awoke to conciousness, she asked for the little girl. What must be done? It would not do to tell her the terrible truth. She asked to be told all? She had been burned in the building. Some believe the building to have been struck by lightning, while Alderman affirmed he had seen the man fire it, but was unable to prevent the flames having been wounded as we have seen. If not for the terrible gash upon his brow, it would have been believed to be an hallucination of the brain. But that seemed to satisfy, but all positively believed the child to have perished in the flames. As the man ran on with the child he noticed it was only clad in a night robe, stopping and taking the great dark coat and placing it around the child proceeded to the spot where he had left the horse, vaulted into the saddle and dashed away in the direction they had come In the early part of the night, in the course of an hour he led the wearied animal within the stable. In due course of time he again re-appeared, bringing the child with him: again immerged from the shadows of the building, and disappeared from view. When the morning papers were brought in and handed to Zella, the first of moment that arrested her attention was an article headed: Terrible Fire, and would be Assassination. The residence of Clarence Alderman was, on last night between the hours of twelve and one, set on fire, and Mr.   THE FALBE MABBIAGE, OR Alderman wounded. It is thought his wife will not recover. It is thought his infant child Carrie perished in .the build- ing. $500.00 Reward for the incendiary or the return or capture of the incendiary dead or alive: Ha, ha, ha, I guess you'l catch the fellow first, won't you; for my part when you do, I wish you joy. Giving the paper a toss across the table she arose and going to an adjoining room, bent fondly over the form of a child, and tenderly kissed the rosy lips of the little sleeper. The eyes unclosed and the lips murmured pittyfully, mamma, mamma. In another moment Zella clasped the tiny creature in her arms, and kissed her fondly; saying Mamma is here darling. The child looked up wonderingly; but seeing the soft beautiful face, and soft brown eyes, nestled c dleoly down in her arms; and appeared perfectly happy wBtt!hor new mother. For it must be known it was none bther but -ilal De Challue who had disguised herself, and gone forth as we have seen, and had in a measure revenged herself upon Clarence Alderman. She loved the child with a fierce wild passion, almost amounting to a frenzy. It had been an es- pecial desire to get possession of the child, and fearing to trust the courage of Frank Le Due, had disguised herself and gone forth as we have seen, and accomplished her work. She knew he would not be likely to suspect her as .he sup- posed her to be in Washington yet. Little thinking she could get within the vicinity of his residence without his being warned of her presence, and as he had not as yet heard from her he began to feel quite at ease in ,his new capacity, little dreaming of the danger.   CHAPTER VIII. MULTUM IN PARVO. Out from the years that are flown. Memory recalls thee my lost love my own; Never was vision more tender, more sweet. Eyes so bewitching from beauty complete. Never was music more rich in its tone. Than is thy voice, beloved; my own. Time, the great mediator rolls slowly on in its course, never pausing in its onward course till it takes us on; and in five years it finds us in the same village with Clarence Alderman. It is midwinter, every one is looking eagerly forward to the holidays, which are not far distant. Great preparations were indeed being made. There was to be a great ball at the residence of Monseur Le Duo, in honor of the arrival of the sister of Mrs. Le Duc, who was expected on the evening train. All the elite of the city had been invited. It was intended as the opening ball of the season. The eve of the great reception arrived at last, the magnificent parlors were overflowing with wealth and beauty. Among the many familiar faces to be seen was Clarence Alderman and lady, and their infant son of four summers; the perfect image of his father; Mr. and Mrs. Le Duo, 10  THE IALSZE MABRTAG, OB Hugie Harlon and Mr. and Mrs. McIntyre, and others; all were enjoying themselves to the best possible advantage. A murmur of applause caused Alderman to glance through the arched entrance; he turned very pale, and for for a moment a mist came before his eyes, he sprang eagerly forward, and then as quickly stepped back. Great God! he cried, do I see righA, or am I istaken? For there in the doorway, leaning on the arms of Monseur Le Duc stood the counterpart of her he had so cruelly wronged; a step or two in advance of them, a beautiful child of some seven or eight years; she was clad in a robe of pure white lace; studded with golden stars; on the beautiful-head sat a wreath of pure white roses with- half blowni buds trailing the beau- tiful shoulders. "A'nUtmi n&of appiobatiobi ran through the room as she iReP'bi *heini with haiughity Brace; closely fol- lowed by a ladyr of some. twenty-seven or eight years, the impress of talent deeply stamped upon the noble brow; she wore a trailing rbbe of white satin, studded with glitter- ing diamonds, the hair hung o'er her beartiful round shoul- ders in- wave of' beautiful auburn curls, a crown of starry gems bedecked the shapely head; a cold haughty smile fell upon the little circle as she swept gracefully down the hall. As; the introfductions were iven she received them with pleasant greeting and a kind word for all. Y. When the introductions were over and'they were turning away; her glance fell upon Clarence Alderman, and calling the attention' of Mr.'Le Duc, they wete soon bowing before each other. '   '   - .    ( Madan Linville;"will allow me the exquisite pleasure of her company for this kerman? and in' aidthei r ihomefit they were whirling away in the giddy mazes of 'the waltz. In the course of an hour, he'led her to 'a eat, and as rthe converation turned upoh foreign cduntries, he veiitured' t   .. ., I -   TH. BROKSN PlbG2* ,'  1 ,4 asxl if; Mrs. ,inille was a native :of this continent; and: if she had ever been in this viinity before? ..... J..: ...... . She made no direct reply, but turnedthe conversation-i' another channel, speaking rapturously of the beauties of' France anad,Itay; thereby letting Clarence Alderman .iner she was a native of France,.and .the sister of MB.,La Duc. It could, be seen at a glance Clarence Aldermian ws: deeply;smitten of the beautiful and facinating widow, Mrs. Linyille. Mrs. Alderman noted of course, with a jealous eye the. polite attention of her husband to Mrs. Linville. Clarence flattered and praised the beautiful child, and often would renmrk there ,was a striking- resemblance to friends of his, but he was satisfied they were no more. . .  Mrs. Linviile was undoubtedly the belle of the evening;. andmany were the hearts that fluttered wild anticipations as they listened to the beautiful flow of language from those ruby lips. But at last as all scenes must'end, so-did our grand and brilliant reception, and in a secluded nook we find Clarence Alderman bowing low o're the hand of the facinating' widow.  I hope I may see you again he was saying, and pressing her hand gently; I have at. last. found a- congenial spirit, it is o seldom we are permitted even common council with those we hold dear. Hush, Mr. Alderman, you forget you have not the right to talk to me,thus; when you have otheps dependant upon yourlife;,.were ,you, free, it. would..perhaps be .;different;- wilt ap s a4sweet,iejile, our life. pathsliein a-differentdi'-- rection Mr. A., and do not let me tempt you, or lay a temp-  THE FALSE MAREIAGE, OR tation in your way; trust in God and wait your freedom, with patience, and resignation; and if you never obtain it, rest assured there is sweet rest in heaven, such a calm holy trust, where we will all be free; but wait with humble sub- mission. Come Clarence, I am waiting your company to the land of. freedom,.giving Mrs. Linville a look of withering scrorn as she swept away, without another word, she watched the two disappear through arched entrance, and turned away with a wild look, to the little boudoir, and after taking a survey of herself, in the oval mirror, remarked, he is easily blinded: my way is clear, i'll make good use of my time; and laying aside the elegant robe sat down to think. Mamma, said a voice, who were you talking to just now, and what makes you look so wild; oh, mamma, don't cried the child, covering her face with her hands to shut out the wild light; going to the crib kissed the child tenderly, say- ing go to sleep darling, mamma will sing for you; and she sang a low sweet melody 'till the child slumbered. Then rising, she hastily donned an apparel and passed quickly down the broad staircase, and out upon the darkened street, never pausing 'till she stopped before an elegant brown stone front. The stillness of death reigned supreme. When Clarence Alderman and lady retired that morning to their home, a very warm scene ensued, and stormy hearts retired that morning, little thinking the dayof freedom so near at hand. Fire! fire! fire! rang out through the stillness of the gray dawn, but all their efforts were unavailing. The once mag- pifoent edifice was now a shapeless mass of ruins. The   THE BROKEN PLEDGE.         " news spread like wild-fire. Mr. C. Alderman's only child had perished, and the wife of the same could not possibly recover. The papers stated it had been kindled by the neglect of a servant. A week later and Mrs. Alderman was no more. Clarence kept himself entirely secluded, refusing to be comforted. Later, Mrs. Linville received a card, with the wish ex- pressed that a friend wished to see her in the parlor. She went down, well knowing who it was, and was soon face to face with Clarence Alderman. He looked very pale, and after a few preliminaries re- marked: The freedom we spoke of was little expected so soon; but it seems fate rules all things. Why so, enquired she? Then he told her how his house had once before been consumed by fire, and destroyed the life of his only child. Oh, how terrible! she exclaimed, did you not almost go wild? Oh, oh, awful! And the little hands went up with a spasmodic jesture, as if to shut out the terrible scene. His own voice trembled as he finished, and looking up he perceived she was sobbing bitterly. In a moment he was on his knees before her, and clasping the unresisting form to his bosom. Blame him, oh ye who will, I am telling you the story; you make your own comments; but in my own heart, I can see how, with the face of old associations so strongly upon them, they yielded to a love that was strong- er than life; as all love is, that is worthy of the name. It was but for a moment, and no words escaped them, except the smothered " my darling," that he gasped, rather than spoke, in the first gush of feeling.   7! #   jg   4 *; .At( C U' ' t ?08?    Vi, sALt2 MX"AG1A, Olt Freeing 'herself from his embrce, looked at him with that same mild, pleading look he had seen somewhere before;, and he thoughthe'd'forgot, in the long, long years that had flown. Taking her hands in his, he asked, Carre " come let us be friends now, for the sake of those dear to us both, now and  always." She gave him her hand, and by its gentle pressure, told him what her heart could not speak. After this they were much together ; they were happier he thought. The one thought uppermost in his mind, to make him believing and trusting-was uppermost in his heart. So it happened that love deepened in the one heart strong and ardent, and in the other-well she knew who had the keeping of it. So they grew together; she did'nt love him, no far from it. Ah, the sad life-lesson had not come to him yet fully; he had yet to learn how much of sin and wickedness there is in the great untried world. Or else he would have been content to grasp whatever there was of good in the worl4, and let its frivolities alone. We all have our day dreams, and if it comes to us as a reality, happy indeed are we.' Clarence 'Alderman seemed perfectly happy, not a shadow of doubt seemed for a mo- ment enter his mind. Threemonths had passed away; the weddingday had been postponed from time to time. To Clarence Alderman it was like a terrible doom. iHe gave up all his occupations and enjoyments, going" out 'but little, and to the world   THE BROKEN PIEDGE.9  -m . .!bor, . y o ^ . W, ' seeming in almost wild despair at the mention of his wife's death by a friend. ,ut to ,is fair inamoratia he qsemed to have entirely for- gotten the existence of such a being as the wife of his bos- om should have been. Clarence. Alderman soon found it had ever required far less mental effort to make himself agreeable to his dead wife than to either direct or fathom 'the thoughts of the fascinating widow, Mrs. Linville, and he became every day more deeply enamored of the beautiful stranger. Perhaps he did'it intend to prove disloyal to the memory of his dead wife, but he allowed himself to become too much interested. It was hard'to break the chain that bound him. Although the widow had many warm friends, she could not hardly be said to be popular among the youthful circles of the city. She was a keen observer, and her remarks upon Polite hypocracy of the age, were at times more candid than fat- tering. The dandies of the city had learned to fea hr her sar- casm; but men of intrinsic worth were strongly attracted by her high moral purity, and high mental culture. Mrs. Linville could not longer blind herself to a tue state f affirs.:' She was too proud to repulse his advances. or plead for his love. She treated him however with a cool civility which j!eep- ly ounded his vnity, and stug hs haughty ntu to the quick. Spriig deepened into summer, and still te widow held full po ssesson of ie a'ffection of OCarence Alderman.   80      THE BFALE MA1RTAGLJC OB One day as she was sitting dreamily beneath the shade of the magnificent multiflora that covered the veranda, with its large clusters of fragrant roses, when Alderman sudden- ly appeared before her, and without perfixing his question suddenly demanded: Carrie Linville, do you love me. Her pride was suddenly aroused by his abruptness, and raising her dark eyes to his, haughtily replied: I perhaps love you as much as you deserve. His lip curled at a reply so little calculated to produce a "cessation of hostilities," and mockingly replied: Pray what have I said to offend the morbid sensibilities of my fair fiancee? Ask your own heart, was her mechanical reply. Carrie Linville, if you no longer love me, it's high time our foolish engagement was broken off. I have no wish to make you keep your faith with me, if your heart is not in the bond. Very well; I you are free, she replied in the same meas- ured tones, and unable longer to control her feelings she abruptly left him and fled to her room. It would be difficult to analize the feelings of Alderman as she vanished from his sight. Certain it is however, that the examination of his own heart proved altogether unsatisfactory.  A month later, again he stood before her awaiting her reply. That care-worn man, with his eyes dimmed with tears, could it be possible that this man, Clarence Alderman of a few years ago, with his proud bearing and cheerful face. She hesitated, only for a moment; then laying her hand in his she frankly answered: You were forgiven years ago. The words slipped out almost before she was aware of it.   THE BRBOKN PLEDGE.        81 Eagerly he grasped her hand, and fervently responded: God bless you, noble girl, I knew you would not withhold your forgiveness; and now may I ask you a question, the one of all others uppermost in my heart? Certainly, I am ready and willing to answer all questions you may feel disposed to ask. Taking her hand in his, and with the other gently drawing her to him he replied: Oh! I can find no words sweet enough; drawing her head up that he might gaze into the beautiful eyes, he said let me see thee, my light of life, my pearl, sunbeam, snow drop, joy of  my spirit, life of my soul, the desire of my heart, my angel, will thou be mine, mine alone, darling? Oh, that I might find words sweet enough to describe the love that burns in my heart for you. My angel bird, tenderly pressing the rose-bud mouth with warm kisses. She did't answer, but the drop of'the beautiful head, as the soft auburn curls brushed his cheek, and the gentle hand pressure seemed satisfactory; he drew her closely to him, and not a word was spoken by either of them. But if he could have seen the fierce wild look and palid features of her he held so dear, he would not have seemed so perfectly happy. To give utterance to words; and she, ah! well she knew what she must and would do. "   CHAPTER IX. SINE DIE. "You meant to play with me, perhaps, To make your worth and price the higher. You meant perhaps to take me up, When waiting gave that act new savor, And let me, falling blissful cup, Then tendered as a favor." An hour had passed away, and tenderly he asked, press- ing her to him: Darling, let us unite our destiny at once.- My angel shall it be soon? Yes, as soon as you wish.  Well then, in a week we will be wedded. Does that please, my little dove? Yes Clarence, nothing could please me better, with a meaning look. But I have something to ask you now. I don't believe in grand wedding feasts. So I think it will be much pleasanter to go to Madison and be united, as I have some friends there, and brother and sister will go with us, and 'twill be so much pleasanter than here. Yery well, we will make arrangements accordingly. Then we will go. Please tell no one of, your numerous friends. You can give them a surprise when you get back, and she laughed a -joyous, happy laugh, and clasped her   'UN qaQN PLOG,          83 arms round his neck, lightly pressed a kiss upon the broad brow of har fiancee. Now go, said she, and make your ar- rangemerts accordingly. We will start at early morn in a close oaniage. Oh, what happiness; and she danced away from him clap- ping her little hands, and laughing joyously. He thought she was a perfect divinity; she is almost equal to Zella De -  , if she could only write. Poor Zella, I did sadly wrong her, but comforting himself, I would not have done so if not for Carrie, darling; and oh, she was burned; and oh God, our little pearls, and a shudder ran through his frame. Waltzing up to him, she gave him her hands and tiptoe- ing up, gave 'him a kiss, saying "now go and get ready dear." He went out feeling a sort of awe for the beautiful crea- ture. What a curious creature she is, he thought she seem- ed almost wild at the prospect of becoming my wife. How much she resembles Zella; only she seems wilder than ever Zella was. Poor Zella; I hope she forgave me ere she died, and as he reached the doorway of his own home, passed in and disappeared from view, to leave on that long to be remembered tour, from which he would never return 'till called by the Great Master above. The day of departure came, and with slight misgivings they set forth; she seemed so perfectly delighted at the prospect of the future, that he was in a measure awed by her manner, When with in sight of the city, she proposed a row on the lake by moonlight, it would le, qh, sp gloriously nice.   "      THBE AL SE MARMtIAb2, oI He acceded to her proposal, thinking it a curious freak of hers. They were soon on the banks of the lake, and soon seat- ed in the light yacht, with sails spread were soon drifting out on the bosom of the dark blue waters. They had sailed for some time, and Alderman began to think of wishing to return, when Carrie asked, "what magnificent building is that?"Pointing to a stately edifice they could discern against the eastern clouds. The oarsman replied, it was the residence of a hermit who had taken a dislike to the busy world, and lived in retirement. How peculiar said Alderman, his curiosity becoming aroused. Yes; it is said he is brooding over a broken heart, &c. Oh! I should like to hear the story said Alderman, as they were idly drifting toward the Island. Just at this mo- met a scream broke the stillness of the night air, and turn- ing quickly, Alderman saw the form of his soon to be bride apparently strangling in the water; in a moment more she would sink to rise no more. Pulling off his. coat, he sprang after her jusf as she was going down again, telling her to be of good cheer; in a few seconds she rose again still father from him, and towards the Island. He swam after her, tell- ing her not to give up, he would save her or die with her! When within arms length of her, and he was about to grasp her, she went down again. Oh God! he cried, come quickly with the boat or I shall loose her. My God, will she ever come up again? A low mocking laugh, like the one he had heard on that long to be remembered night, almost curdled the blood in   THE BROIEN PLEDGE.        85 hisveins; and on turning he beheld the widow several strokes from him, imploring him to save her; going always from him and towards the Island. He reached her, and just as she was going down the fifth time, he grasped the now unconcious form in his arms, and in a moment she was safely deposited in the boat. Frank Le Due gave orders to row to the Island imrhedi- ately, as it was the nearest by all means. When safely in the boat, Elsie began to chafe the cold hands; Mrs. Linville gave the little hands a warm pres- sure, and glancing at the pale face of the half unconcious woman, she perceived a perceptable smile; and bending down, caught the whispered accents," all right," a knowing look passed between the three, and she sank back appa- rently unconcious. Alderman sitting looking blankly in the direction of the Island they were fast nearing. The boat touched the shore, the oarsman sprang out and securing the boat said: "Had'nt we better take the lady to the house at once?" Yes, replied Frank, while Alderman sat like one petrified. They took the half unconcious form of the lady to the house, Alderman and Elsie following. They'proceeded up the flight of stairs leading to the mansion, and rang the bell; an elderly gentleman showed them into a plain furn- ished room with iron bars across the window. Alderman followed mechanically the bride elect, when softly deposited upon a sofa, he for the first time reviewed the room and its scanty furniture. Restoratives were administered, and soon the unconcious lady opened her eyes, and gazing intently around, she   THE4 W40 1KP!"AGI ORB gasped, "where am I? Safe, replied Alderman, going to her. You fell into the water darling, and I rescued you.- Rest a little and we will go back. Oh yes, I remember I was drowned, and oh!"There, there, hush now," gently putting her back upon the sofa, and tenderly kissing the ruby lips. A spasmodic shudder ran through her frame as his lips touched hers. Noticing this he said to Mrs. Le Duc, "had'nt you better give her something to quiet her?" Yes, I will, and going out, she soon returned with a col- orless liquid and spoon; she administered the medicine, and in a few moments the desired effect seemed to have taken place, by the regular breathing of the invalid. Motioning Alderman to her side, said: "I will go and tell Mr. Le Due to order some refreshments, and leave my charge with you;" so saying she disappeared through the half open doorway. Alderman watched the sleeper a few moments, and then tenderly kissed the ruby lips of the sleeper. She shuddered and murmured: "Oh, the water, it's so icy cold, oh!"Alderman turned to the barred window, to gaze out into the beautiful night. The eyes of the sleeper unclosed, and seeing that Alder- man's back was turned that way, stepped carefully through the half opened door way, closing it after her, and turning the key in the rusty lock. With a low mocking laugh; she said, hope you may en- joy your freedom, and glorious bridal, Mr. A. Ha, ha, ha, I go to-morrow to seek another, a fairer and a richer fiancee, and he shall be to me what you have never been. Hurrah! don't you thingyou will have a fle ti,e? ZeU a De Chalue   and the white plumes, and Carrie Linville are one. Fool, did you think to go on in your hellish carreer unharmed; did you think I had slumbered quietly all these years in the grave, and you gloating o'er my downfall? Cursed of the ursed; fiend; devil; your black soul shall get burnt in Satan's premeditated infirmary, aid your black heart laid bare before the world; as with a hoarse laugh she sped along the passage, on the stairs she met the overseer and told him Mr. Alderman was tearing terribly and would have to be removed to another cell, saying she would come and see him again soon, trusting you will keep him safely till he gets better. Certainly, my dear lady; we will do all we can for him, its a very bad case; hearing Alderman's screams for release. Yes, replied Zella, for it could be no other, and I shall expect to hear from him soon, as they passed out. When once within cariage, she laughingly asked, did I not act that admirably? With a ringing laugh, he replied, tip top, if be does not escape. You would make a splendid actress. He will not though, from that place, for the associations of that place will soon place him with Jossie Terell Alder- man: and my little warm fingers have done the deed! Oh! I should like to feel his warm blood trickle through my fingers if it was not murder. We must now go and get little Pearl, I expect he wants to see me before this time,.the little dear; he will cling fondly to me. They drove rapidly through several streets, and for some time not a word was spoken until they stopped before a  THE FALSE ARITAGO, OB little cottage half hidden by the rich foliage. A light glim- ered through the lattice work of the veranda, as our travel- ers stopped before it; the soft tinkling of a guitar broke the stillness of the summers air. Could it be there was something strongly familiar in that voice; and as they list- ened, visions of the past came crowding fast o'er the mem- ory of Zella De Chalue. It took her back to the long, long ago, so long it seemed almost like a dream. But the voice was surely that of of Charley Kingsle; my boy lover. Oh, had I but listened to you, all this anguish might then have been avoided. The music ceased, and voices began speak- ing; and hearing her name mentioned, said to her compan- 'ion, lets go in they are expecting us, I think; and in another moment they stood within the cottage doorway. The lady showed them into a private parlor, and turning on the group said, I suppose you have come for little Pearl? Yes replied Zella, let me see him; and stepping into an adjoining clos- set, beheld the little cherup sweetly sleeping. Zella kissed him tenderly, and a tear fell upon the velvet cheek as she bent bowingly o'er the crib of the little sleeper. We shall hardly know how to get along without him, Mr. Kingsle was saying to day it would be so lonely without our little sunbeam. At the mention of that name, the warm color mantled her cheeks, as they passed out into the cosy sitting room, and there before her stood her boy lover, the same as in days gone by, only a few more furrows had seemed the fair brow; the same jetty curls, and mild blue eyes and laughing smile forever at play around the beautiful mouth. They were soon laughing and chatting gaily o'er their childish pranks.   -  THE BBOKEN PLEDGE.        89  The evening passed pleasantly to all concerned, and Zel- la saw what she had lost in the past; what might have been if not for that terrible temptation: but when this came to her mind it only strenghtened the desire for revenge, upon him who had robbed her of so much happiness, and now life seemed to hold nothing worthy of the name.   CHAPTER X. I am looking day by day, To find my hidden love, Tho' I know it cannot come, Again from earthly source. The breath of eve was floating in Faint, full of dying bloom, I bent to hear a struggling breath, Stir feebly in the room. Old time pushing onward speedily, takes one with flying leaps two years, and we are again with Clarence Alderman. He is greatly changed; the brown curls are white with sor- row, the eyes dimmed with weeping. His once so-called wife is with him; low he grovels at her feet, begging her love and forgiveness. Listen what is he sayingl Carrie! Zellal relieve me, see me now; surely I have suffered long years, enough for the misery I brought upon you. Look on this form; it was once fit for a sculp- ture, and this cheek, where the rose once bloomed. It is cold and white and haggard, as the ghost of a spumed one. Yet burns the lamp of life. Take me back to your heart as of yore, for the love you once bore me; think for a moment and soften your heart just a little.   . T"BROKEN. PEE Q     '.   , Raising a dainty. little foot from the cold, damp floor of the cell, gave him a violent push, sending him several fee from her, and replied in the same cold, hard tones: "No, Clarence Alderman, the love I once bore you is bitter, bit- ter hate." turling her lip with contempt, replied:. "No, indeed; you shall yet die by my hands; these little hands you used to call beautiful," (holding her hands up,) 'twhen I was Zella De Chalue and Carrie Linville, shall yet be stained in your crimson current. Say, you demented creature, did you know that it was I who laid this plot to insure your ru- in? I did'nt imagine you quite so easily led away; but it seems beauty is sure to win. Ah yes, I laid my plans, iiaa they have worked successfully, and you are in my power, soul and body. Do you know I gave you that ugly gash on your brow? It was I who burned your magnificent-resi- dence. I who stole your children; they did not die, as you supposed, but live to bring shame and remorse upon you.- You know it is said the sins of the parents are visited upon the children three and four generations after; I bring these upon the first. I have placed them in durance vile, where they too, shall suffer as you have done. Ohl miserable fiend! despisable; never expect favors of me or from my hands. I am destitute of feeling; you are absolutely inmy power. Once you said you would willingly snap the vital cord and lay lifeless at my feet, if it in the least would'be conducive to my enjoyment; do so now, it would give:me pleasure to see you weltering in your own gore. Never ask favors of me, for my heart is hard as adamantine. Never ask forgiveness of me, never." For a moment he stood irresolute, looking wildly at the one he had so cruelly wronged, then'with a muttered curse, throwing up his hand, fell at her feet apparently lifeless.   Zsia B   6 lfgking at iat, odmuy suwt4 g tfwr wk, *he  e t iads eAudihed wiffliy eiether; 'tfil twe , blood teemed ooose Cfm beetih the pink rEr ,e-  mut er ig to'heiBelf: "I am hlf a mpiul to take his heartl Oh, if he. would pnly come too; and know I'tid it, it was me; if you could  feet nd breathe the agony of the future after your heart weq gone, I would take it, and you .ehuld eat iJ d ip pa ,with your warm black blood. You infernatl-, and she brought the dainty lte foot down impetuously upon t*h stiffened inger, causing the blood to spirt fr9on bine th he ,darc nails, covering 4ir silken robe with great dark spots; then turning to the water tank, took a ourd of water Fnd dshing if full in his fce, and rubing his temples afew moments, had the pleasure of seeing him jreathe again.  Wea , utjqietly xeOowq  #emoa4nq, ooh ^hb a li. thia; I wQnot t lv ong to enire your insleee a4d yo- e'e, 'ad o4 knows I wish,I could .blerte my ,st now. "'Geod; so do I; no danger of your dying. Such men as you never die; they ive toa good old age. Your ;hil4den are made to suffer as you do. Sir lord, how does thatisuit your fastidios1 tasteP' You who always 'loved the good and noble, and choose tl at ways in prefereqce to the evil and majipiouspess that yOu were always t7ing to irradicate; your lovely Carie you doated on, the one whose mother you drove to the verge of ini'nty, and then to death, is now what is termed a atar. She exhibits her little form upon the boards of apublio the- er. She is an adept in the vices of public life; and he Whom you so longed'to clap to your bosonm asa% afection- ate parert does an idohited son, is fast gMin5 to rui, * t   I   ":/'                               i'     , "1 , v , i ', r i C I   ^Ae   s      wjl^  a a  wia t hw Mp  a4, i MWt 6 i p I r4 w miam would have been ere now jp 4oPurof. jacnwtip. Agn .4 ldwwq, iO hiPokaes, Ipees"h  with amOy. '. You ,telli, MW rie aj sil lit[sw, Id is ' y aai? God iforgi; ;FatF r Af 'e hber, she knows nu hat bshe say,.- Zeill o'Wt sy thse ; anyting ,but tat, my God, cm it be true? Surely I dd4 lw ^gW;hb." nly tco troe, replied Zeia, with a touch of irony in her tones. No, no, I will not believe you; you tell me falsely; prove itrto me; bring them to see me Zella; I would ask but one favor of you, and that is, to know- my children are pure as angel from 'heaven, and that you can never know. I hope / when I see you again to find you in a better frame of mind, adeagr to devour stray bits'of evidences in flattering messages I will bring you of the criminal record of court, ,ten perhaps you .wi not doubt me; as she went tothe door and rang to he reeased, a moaning sound cused her to opk around, 4d ash beheld Aldwrman wifh diatended eyeballs and palid fatures coming towrds her. She had indeed driven him mad. The door was unlocked, and she went into the hall in time to save herself being torn to peices by the raving maniac. *   *   *    *   *   *   *   a Sin, pe pW  over a period of two year, .and once proF, w ta4dd fi  to f*,e witi Zell De COalwre, she is eading a letter , just nded her, by a servant. My dear Madai: It becomes my painfl duty to inform you, that your husband has been dying since last evening, and requmtl you I .ome  o Jiimi, h eemame grsiaal    '94      THiE FAIR MA:RIAG1% OR than he has been in a great while. I think there is no danger of personal violence now, he istoo far gone,:come on at ones or he may not last till you arrive. .    .  Dying, exclaimed Zella, as the letter fell to the ground. This will soon end it all, and I shall once more be free. I am sure this is the' best thing that could possibly have happened, as Frank Le Duo came up, handing him ttiet- ter, she tried to assume a cheerful aspect. But oh, how wretched was the heart of Zella De C a Iue! wretched beyond what can be realized without an 6wrt of imagination. It was more wretched still, ere the\dawn- ing of another day, for in the night that followed the spirit of him who had so cruelly wronged her, loved her and plead for her love, passed through the door of death into the world of eternal life. Death! how its occurance subdues and chastises the heart; breaking down its animosities and quieting its angry throes. All nature is bright, the balmy air of spring is wafting the perfume of flowers o'er occupants of the carriage, as, the hearse moves slowly along, closely followed by the car- riage of Zella, Frank Le Due and his wife. The dawn has at last arrived when Clarence Alderman is free; no longer lover, husband and father, but-stands at the bar of God to be judged, no more by her he fain would have held to his bosom, with the sweet assurance of her undying love, but is now with his wife long since passed away. he is forgotten by those who would have saved him from a death less terrible. His property was all irut out for charitable purposes, and the name of Aldermanis seldom h eared.  Zella's profession yields her a comfortable income.   THE RROKEBN PLEDGE.       9 And now with the children of Clarence Alderman's as her own, for she loved them as devotely as she had once loved their father-in a lovely country residence they were once more happy. Zella De Chalue stands to day a free woman. Carrie is growing to be a beautiful young lady, and knows naught of the sorrows of her adopted mother, nor does she have the slightest idea who or what she is but in reality her own mother as well as little Pearl's; he is the light and joy of the household. Thiee months later, and Charley Kingsle is pleading, for Zella's love, but she says she has no love to give now, it was burried years ago. But Charley is patient; says he can wait, and thinks he has years yet to win the hand, and the remnants of a shattered heart. So thus fair readers we shall leave you, hoping we have said nothing to mar the sensative natures of none of our most fastidious. *       
                ^ I "'    APPENDIX. The statement tht no. attempt was made to punish Mi De Chalue's wrongs is a reat error. But it is not surprs8 ing- t4t Alderman should jHlieve it as :very -tizenin Andrew oounty had- heard it preahed a'thousa ,timq- The 'onspirators had worked. up such a state of feeling thai the lw wwas utterly powerless;' rid yet they heap execra- tions upon all the o rs he oe state, and upon all Unied States, because they did' not avenge the wrongs of i"ss at'O Clixe. Mtth Cramrie6i Call Gidesons aidi'othlrsip rotoi inent ditiens f the state, used their iibtmt eeirtioni tC bring to jstice al piarties connected sith ,the n'efai6 o plot, but were defeated by the defects of a jury syete.; a ssm which they had taght thir ietnmies too well how t ake advantage of. From items gleaned from Miss De THU"LONG AUGHT LTTEil, AND JiBV1Ji"I 1*k iT" "i E ti   .  4 f4lerpnw and 4iiai PChae ' Ofistmetn t f of 1886-'I-; alderian8 asttle oparati ypooprhavig n1t a   ,maI tnoaet QppB tyf , whbich he, hd^ i#frcpxvl gambling operationi. Alderman's parents were wealtl an i'ved in good style o R eed tret ' IiS'     i "   ' *', *' ,t , '   ;  ;  The afit lietter that passed between Aldertwa and Miss De Ohalued were *tteuf ht^is: ati' nr s - The were written: i free and easy stiley andquite * . romantic. ; ,   ' ' ; , ' ,  No.1, i4 an invitation for compny, and seems wmething like a' "W  d M .:I r ' *o E 'D , ' ,ow"'r 'rz  ',' ' ":.',: W ill? yo. gie youir om pany for this eve i t maybe ate before I come, as I eldom' leav thie soire11 .8 .tM. .Bui thare omehing to tell ^ -oui, tht oourss,'yriu ;t b-e glad toe hle. Please acknowledg he reipt of thi  * . eans werb 1  ;. b-j"a -ef.     ': t Ever       . , -t I e, -' ,  , ' ,I 5 ' -* , " ' - ...' .' '- ,. r , , ', . Zela's answer, ever con4yding:v eitainly, Mr. A., if you have anything to muniate I sall be only thoo happy to see you a y e ii4est r^ae eij  .Wat can it be? I..am really anvous :to;ngow; oou*0rlyr Then oaz ther whii4 soundir veryt snue p art i l he had no reetBbran of addreBsig heLr. How could yot censure me BO qiricly, when you must know I am s very bwy, I; iot iea^e the btore r attend tej a^iikutil Iworkison,^ wt wie this ae, rto, soetwiigo  na d ri l, ,   tI '   ,# "' . ' '  ' " "',' ' ,' ' "6 ,9 ,t' ;,    e , j, iercoma wothers#i8^l^r, very foo   t - MY',:BitwIht'-a'A^ ':t.   . i.'-::i * ..... O9r kind epistie is before me,or rather in dt oket Oh, cu:f you, havesee ,with what ea gemrn  d Pid e, ' . to my lips. But  ll tell you al boutt  I must cose, for the boss waiting to go tobupper,. , xo"se haste, and take the will for the deed, and 'all yourelf n:n' YourFs ever, to brown eyes,   .       . '- - '    " ' :' " '   ' ' 'CLARi  E.'A.  So later comes a memorandum as of a marriage, datef Aprilo t., 187-; O ., Alderman to Zhefiap t9 O-, by Rev. Stocton. Following this comes, a msra certificate.  .         '  O CETFI(ATE OF MARRIAG rB-TO BB RRCOEDED. State of --, county of - , ss: This cetifies that 0. . Alderman, of S--. in. :theStte of -   d-- --,adZllaDe Chtlue,:qf S-,-.-, in Jhe state of -- were at,'.ir said county, by me joined together in holy matrimon,o the, 1 , day of Apri, in the year of our L0rd 8- ':  ;: '  ;  gR : STOOKTON, A Meinir^ 6t the ' ei. In presence of W. M. Crocket, Mary Cover.  Then closely following, come letters acknowledging her as hi wife, which we copy verbatem.    ,  . -ET r "  "  SAVANf)i *Au, 14,18   "' MY DAiau  o Win:-Your epistle is before me, or rather y poeet, and I, haste to reply.. .Oh, cold you iVe If oJ-si   .4   n/iiewhenI recieved jdtir letter. With whtageies id I press it to my lips. But I will tell y ow aUi uat it hen I see you. As to my oming after you next week it ili be almost impossible for me to do so. I thiiik it best r you to come over hereby stage if yoi can, it j][I save mlilrable expense. I have brought home the urniture  oU seiected, and think it will please. Father hs forgiven our elopement, (or unaway,)' sinceit can' t be cured it is to be indured. Imiss you so .much, but the thought satw lhalls0on meet, alone reconciles meto the loss of )ur dear society. Oh that it were possible for me to fly to ,i;'arkmi at "thiis noment. Think of me i'ften, ,ihd be "thfil to your rloving a:nd faithful husband. 'Excse hste d wrifes   \     ' s o* 's ii    . Your loving husband, to brown eyes, 'O. ALDERMAN. 'Then wei lip an articlefrom the Herald that indiates at all wasnotvright; the first headed " a:fast young matn' uving steuddenly beeome ,enamored of the fair, b'utiful id fascinathig Miiss D;, and thoroughly'imbued with ithe ,et of that ie great compModty for whoih hporlraWnkind are rer toilii owi bong, battling to grasp, wealt, married sr. But he sIon aceOtained she did not have thefortune at rumor and circumstances held out; and he moped about i pictu-re of aomint    andep    Abitv'ao onths following, under pretext of- preientin'her it some  f his friends, they. left for the east, and in a week he re- irned, but his lovey bride was not with him. 'The good iople thought it was strange, and the town Was rife with bispers.: iing here was another bewithing young dam   AisDl.-          101 sel to whom the 'gay lathro hiid beei previously engaged, but had rahly deserted with the hope of getti' i  wealth by Disgusted, nay almost despising his young and beautiful wlfeB beca'ue she hai not helped im realie he thedreams of life; his: hea softene4ind th; tendri* pof his affectio crept baEck t first love.: Blinded by her young loPe, and rejioe- ing at his return to her, she soon forgot the outting slights she had ireeived and drank in his honied words as of yore, and in two weeks after his return they eloped and were married and went to keeping house in the 'identical cottage hebhadiimtended 'for the first, an affair, ;thit for cool, bare- faced impudence has no parallel. But the honey moon was doomed to be exposed. - An injured wife almost crushed:at her bare desertion, had returned to look after:hertruant hus- band, but ere she could meet him he had flo*n.,  The partiilars ofthe case were given into the hands of the offiers, but he -eluded them for about a year, and his friends done all that was. possible to drive the pobir crated wife to -destintih..;.  After he was married to the insipid blonde who w trapped ,inmPinlfto- marriage, by first beooming a mohero  shis d, c elpei d with all the ea, m the power ofidthe  to utterly cruh out her. existene. Aldermen wrote h a letter. denouncing the mai age, hoping thusto^ ed it all, tellingher how useless it as t t to do ,otherwise. We copy a Ifew more etracts:.  MY DBa:: Mits. Alr rMA::-Excuse the term; I must write you a sad story. 'tI have been compelled to Marry Jo- sie Terrill o, rue thegatintlet. :God knoth I had ratherbe dead. I 'earn the preiaher Stockton neglected to 'ecord   our marriage, which makes it null, nd void, so they tell me, and ', to satv myself,'ave had t do this. i l, yoU fr,- give me Zeila? I will place a sufficient amount at your disposal semi-annually, or 'till something else cai be,done. Foigivoe me-this tembie wrong.' I i see u  oon as poible; tram strtl wtchei aliways. Excuse' hastr.- Your youthful weedded huiiband; to darling little wifet,Zella. Good bye, and God bless you. O. C. ALDERMAN. But all this did not satisfy the community, they believed she knew it was a sham. She was arrested nid held to ap- pear inbailof :$500.00, at the spring courtC and as sfe firmly believed right would triumph, she remained in the vicinity waitingimpatiently for the dawn of brightdays. But allthis did not end her sorrows; they tried tokidnap her, they^fol lowed her when out riding. His emnisies fo!lowe4 hor ten miles one eyening, and as she rode the, fleetest horse otrun them, and asif for sevenge, fired six shots afterthe fai rider, one passing through. her scarf; aU, all these were permitted to go on unpnnighed, while he, was perint-. ted to come and go ad libitum, the hole 'community in arms' at poi defenoeless ioman. Th lawyers: ters e aeily bought over, ad those who: shild have been her frinds, weir' her bitter enemies. Tey, went o6 far as to buy up the bondsmen, and thre dys before the  rial he was throwu into prison in a loathsome den* 'Not 1ke the haid- somely furnished apartments of Stoes, the murderer,;but a foul den, alive. with creeping thing  and slim bipeds, enough. to sicken the brute. creation. Only a bunch of straw in one corner, nothing onwhich to rest thp poor acho ing head; not a ray of light penetrated the black walls of /   the prison house, double iron bars separated her from the other risner sie e n itaisolig voi e reai ed herears sie lay'ni the cold dainp"oor of thr cell; with oild n 'eoasei  tn i fom ci;me -taide, hi^  wia" ' t  I^he etigrtesa r s arrt' d," &6., &d. Often ,  cala from he' ai-or ehidish worktseithefore her foodrly n fit fot the bre oe- ation, with a tliatifig silD eat that or tirve. The sit- uftion drover n the pon gii frantic; she atteimpnted suioide tiieafe ri the 'buildiginh hber crazy freaks, raved and tore h;r cl6thes, andi ws in reality a lunatic; Wel n cob  wsi called the ph e ur hsi ia te ruin tey had troughl. Al n derman was arreted and a sham tri had, d he was turn- ed loose in a fine of one hundred and fifty dollars, which was never paid; oand Miss De Chalue never received a far- thing for all the wrong inflicted upon her and the irreparable loss sustgained. After wavering a long time on the verge of insanity she became a raving maniac, and hadto be placed in the hands of experienced physioians. Sorrow and trouble had done its work, and it is very doubtful if she ever entirely recov- ered. While Alderman lives a life of contentmeit with his blonde wife, and she to feel the pangs of cold neglect, but for the babe she fondles on her breast, and the meek eyed Carrie, the child of sin, the'grave to her would be a sweet refuge. So ends the trial of the wronged wife of Ozias 0. Alder- man, Thus itIs to those who in patience wait, For the dawn of a brighter day,  It wil come the' the way be long, ' The drwn ofwhih we pray.     
             
         
       
   
