
    ----CITATION----
        Bricktop.. Farming for Fun, or, Back-yard Grangers .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7795
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Farming for fun, or, Back-yard Grangers 
            
                  BACK YARD GRANGERS.   BY  BRICKTOP,.   TEN CENTS.   PRICE.  .  .   farming for Fun  i,  -OR!--I  , f  I: BACK-YARD GRANGERS. /- 6 By BRICKTOP  NEW YORK: J. B. OOLLIN, PUBLISHER,  1881. .            COPYRIGHT ENTERED. JAMES OVENS, PRINTER. 13 & 15 Vandewater, St   5- Farming for Fun, ORB BACK-YARD GRANGERS. Mr: Timothy Budd lives in New York, was born in New York, brought up in New York, and ex- pects to live and die in New York. His wife, Melinda, has, and prob- ably will have, about the same his. tory. They have no children, are mod- erately well off, own the house they live in, and there is no reason out- side of their own making why they should not be as contented as man I and wife -generally are. Yes, Bui-ow owns his own house. He paid rent, saved his mfney, and bought the establishment a year ago. How his neighbors envy him H Poor fools! About the time he, completed his purchase he heard about the Grangers, or the Patrons of Huse ; bandry, and he at once began to:' ^W-s   4          ARMNG FOR FUN. take a great intest in them, now that he had a little farm of his own. (The reader might as well N. B. that this farm of Budd's consisted wholly of a backyard, 20 feet by 70.) At length a Grange was instituted in Brooklyn, and Budd made haste to become a   member of it, that he might be all ready, when spring opene , to commence business understand- ingly.  His wife was not altogether in favor of his farming notions, for she had set her heart upon making a flower garden of their back yard, and with great reluctance she consented to allow him one-half of it to agriculturalize. But Budd inw-rdly felt. his advantage, and smiled as he calculated how sorry she would be in the fall, when he harvested his crops, and she had nothing to show for her labor but a few dried bushes and faded flowers. ,Peace-loving man! he felt happy over it. But Timothy Budd was in earnest. He became a regular Granger (city make) and drank deep at the fountain of agri- culture. His farm was not large, but he resolved to make the most of it, and thereby set an example for the rest of the world. The first thing to do was to procure the necessary implements for tilling the soil. The snow had all melted, yet March was pouting because it still had to wear an overcoat. However, Budd resolved to be in readiness when the frost was out of the ground. So he went to an agricultural store for a hoe and spade. "Hoe and spade, eh? Here are our various patterns," re-- plied the proprietor, with a bland smile. "Own a farm near here, sir?" "Yes, here in the city," replied Budd, in an abstracted way, as he examined the tools. "In the city, eh? Why, how is that?" "West Thirty-fourth street."   FARMNG FOR FUN.         5 Goodness! Not a large one, I guess." "No; I am only going to farm a little in my back yard for amusement." "Oh! ah! excellent, sir, excellent; just what every man should do-miniature farming. Would do it myself, only I live on a French flat. I was brought up on a farm, my dear sir, and I know exactly what you require. In addition to a hoe anad shovel, you want two or three rakes of different sizes two smaller sizes of hoes, a lawn-mower, a scythe, pruning-h oks and shears, and-and-well, you can commence with these." "Oh, I can, eh? Well, all right. Show me'specimens." "Certainly; and when you get ready to plant come to me for the seeds, and you will do a sensible thing Got the best lot of seeds in the known world. I'm a Granger, I am." "What is that you say, a Granger?" asked Budd, turning suddenly and confronting tl storekeeper. "To be sure I am; one of the originals; made out West two or three years ago." "My dear sir, give me your hand; I am glad to know you. I am a Granger myself," said Budd, shaking hands with great earnestness. "Made over in Brooklyn." "Good enough, my dear sir; and your name is-" "Budd, Timothy Budd." "Shake again, brother Budd, or, rather, Farmer Budd. Great institution. Suppose you intend to exemplify the beauties of agriculture?" "Yes, that's my idea exactly." "As it is your duty also. Now, then, you can, of course, trust me for advice in everything. Here, are the tools you re- quire to make a start with. I'll make out a bill and send them right to your house." "All right; I shall depend upon you much." "And you won't make any mistake. By the way, you will   6         FARMNG FOR FUN. need a fertilizer of some kind. Suppose I send you up a half barrel of plaster a best thing to dirge vegetation ever discovered; actually tickles the roots and makes the foliage laugh and grow fat."' "Indeed; well, send me some of it."  "All right. Of course, you will want to mix, a little stable manure with it. John, make out a bill," he said, handing the memorandum to his clerk. Budd paid the bill, about seventy-five dollars, and started to his place of business, happy in the thought that he had found a friend and counsellor. When the articles arrived at Budd's house his wife was slightly taken aback. And well she might have been, for the- servant girl brought an armful of implements into esitting room, and informed her that there was a plow do-wn-i the basement door that she could not gt, to save her. THE DIFFERENT IMPLEMENTS THAT MR. BUDD SENT HOME TO WORK HS BACK-YARD FARM WITH.   7 FARMNG FOR FUN.  Mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Budd; " is the man crazy? Why, I should think he owned a hundred-arce farm." "Faith, an' p'raps- he's goin' ter put dirt on the roof of the house an' cultivate it," suggested Biddy. "Goodness only knows! Well, take the tools out into the back yard." "Be gob, but I think Misther Budd nas worms on the brain, muttered Biddy, as she went away. With much anxiety, Mrs .Budd awaited the return of her Granger husband; and when he came hurriedly in and inquired if his implements had been delivered, she laughed in his face in spite of herself. "Why, what is the matter, Melinda?" he asked, in innocent- surprise. "What is the matter with you, Timothy Budd?" "Nothing; only I am going to farming a little." "I should say you were. Where is your farm?" "Why, our back yard, Melinda." Again she laughed. "Is it so very funny, my dear a" "Yes, it is the funniest thing I ever heard. But yoa must: remember that I have arranged to have at least one-half of the yard for a flower garaen." "Yes, my dear." "And that I am going to have some fancy oreed of chickens?'I "Yes, Melinda." "And a little lawn?" "Yes, my love; I have bought a mower." "But what is left for you to cultivate?". "Oh, there is ample room for us both, and we shall be so happy working together on our little farm." "I suppose so, Timothy," she sighed; and when he looked up she laughed again, and Budd began to think she was malr ing sport of him.   8     .3FARMNG FOR FUN. But in truth Mrs. Budd was quite as esthusiastic regarding the back yard as her husband was, Of course, his new move surprised her, for she had laid out every inch of the ground for something or other, but rather than have a burr between them she concluded to let him have half. "But tell me, Tim, what on earth are you going to do with all these implements?" she asked. "Why, cultivate the ground like a Granger, to be sure." "Well, but how about that plow?" "That is to turn the virgin soil into furrows." "How do you manage it, dear?" "Why, hitch a yoke of oxen to it; haven't you ever seen farmers plow " "Oh, yes; but how are you going to get the' oxen into the back yard, my love?  Budd scratched his head, and looked as though he had just 'lost something. Mrs. B. laughed so heartily that her discom fited husband got red in the face and turned away. "Haven't you made a mistake, ducky?" "Anyhow, the man I bought 'em of said he knew exactly what I wanted, and--well, I suppose he sent it." "He must have taken you for a countryman." "Oh, well, he will take it back again when I tell him how it is," and with a face slightly elongated he started down stairs towards his farm. Taking off his coat, he seized a spade and began to jab around in the mould. The parties who had lived there before him had evidently used the back yard for a play-ground, for it was as hard as the sidewalk. But Budd was in earnest, and the soil had to be turned. So he threw his whole weight upon the spade with the object of forcing it into the ground. The. result was that Budd stopped suddenly and sat down to think, and, by the bye, he thought he heard Biddy laughing in   FARMNG FOR FUN.          9 the kitchen at the ridiculous figure he was cutting, and he thought, with an equal amount of certainty, that he had ruined the seat of hiL pants, and that the eyes of the neighbors were upon him. He rose slowly to his feet, and backed into the house- for a change of garments, while Biddy burst her corsets from top to bottom laughing over her master's mishap: Cruel creature! to B SITTING- OOM FLOOR. I   .AP MR BDDSPEA8 ISFISTSHVE FLLOF31NUE N IZ ;        aITNGRO FOR   O0         FARMNG FOR FUN  laugh at a man with such an expression of anguish on his face. Encased in a pair of old pants, Budq again went for that lown-trodden earth, but it refused to yield. Then he got dis- couraged, and consulted with a neighbor, who suggested dril. ing and blasting. Still another recommended him to put his farm to soak, but as this proposition seemed to have a certain amount of irony in it, Budd voted him an uneducated old fool, and took the advice of a third party, and began operations with a pick-axe.  This was a comparative success, and after sweating over it for a day or two he finally got it chipped up to quite an extent. Then he mixed in the plaster and stirred it up with the earth, while his wife kept stirring him up about encroaching on her part of the farm. A week of preparation made quite a change in that crusty back-yard,/and finally Budd began to plant the various kinds of seeds with which his brother Granger, the store keeper, had furnished him. Mrs. Budd also spent the most of her time in the improvised garden, sowing all kinds of flower seeds, and occasionally tucking in a few among the hills of her husband's planting and roots, just to surprise him. Budd was never so happy in his life. He planted something every day; and when he felt sure his wife was not looking he would tuck a potato or a few squash seeds into her flower beds, just for a surprise, you know. But he neglected to mark his hills, and so kept right on planting until things began to come up and until he had hidden seed enough to plant enacre farm.         , One day he had a load of manure dropped in front of his house, and he set to work to carry it through the house into the yard.. The entry was dark, and by coming through it he man- aged to stub his toe, and spread the first shovel full of the fra- grant article upon the sitting-room carpet. *                         *   FARMNG FOR FUN.         " I   MR. BUDD GETS SLIGHTLY CONFUSED AS TO WHCH ARE SHOOTS D WHCH ARE WBEDS, AND SO HE EMPLOYS A MAGNJLFYING-GLASS ASCERTAIN.                 , . "Why, Timothy Budd!" exclaimed his wife. Budd looked sorry, but without saying a word he began to ;ke amends for what he had done. But he didn't have very od luck that day anyway, for about half of his fertilizer was ittered through the house, causing Biddy to howl and his fe to cry. '                ,           .   12          FARMNG FOR FUN. However, Budd was one of those men who keep at a thing and conquer by steady work; so in time he got all this richness spread over his garden, and' then he fell back awhile and re- solved to let nature have a chance. But nature didn't appear to be working in back yards much, or, at least she -wasn't very particular, for quite as many weeds came; up as anything else. In fact, Budd was obliged to go to the expense of buying a powerful magnifying glass in order to tell the young and backward sprouts from the weeds, which ;were not so backward, This gardening occupied the most of his time, and he was actually neglecting his business through his anxiety. Especialy was this the case after things " began to come up," and Budd, magnifying glass in hand, was seen at early morn and at dewy eve, creeping about on his hands and -knees, examining the progress and trying to determine the nature of his coming crop. Mrs. Budd also entered into the spirit of scattering the germs of the beautiful, as before stated; and after she had scattered -all she could find room for in both back and front yards, she began to construct widow-sill gardenis. Every window on the sunny side of the house, which happened to be the back side, was filled with all sorts of pots, boxes, vases, and everything that would hold a bit of earth' and water she improvised for additions :to her window flower-gardens. One window received more attention than the others, and from the sill thereof she had a shelf constructed upon which she heaped a specimen of almost everything. She loved to stand in this window, and while puttering among her flowers, to ob- serve the envy of her neighbors. One day she bought a new and peculiar pecies of Central American Cactus (in' general appearance it was enough like a cat to be called a cat-cus,) and with great pride she added it to the collection on this particular shelf.   FARMNG FOR FUN.         13 But this shelf had all it wanted. It broke down, -and fell down. It did worse; it knocked her husband down, as he chanced to be at work directly underneath it.  Perhaps you may think this a laughable affair. Maybe it is for you, but poor Budd failed to see a laughable thing about it. Instead of getting up and holding his sides with laughter, he struggled'to his feet, and howled with pain.  , MRS. BUDD'S WINDOW-SILL FARM BREAKS AWAY AND PRECIPTrARIV ITSELF UPON HER HUSBAND BELOW.   "         FARMNG FOR FUN. MR. BUDD PROCURES A HUGE SYRINGE AND GOES FOR THE EARLY WORM ON HS VINES, BUIT AS THERE HAPPENS TO BE A HOLE IN THE FPNCE, AND THE BIDDY IN THE NEXT YARD HAPPENS TO BE HANGING UP CLOTHES DIRECTLY IN RANGE-(See next page.) His wife ran down to see if her cactus was injured or any of her plants destroyed. "Are my darling plants hurt?" she asked, anxiOUsly. "Not so much as your darling husband is," he replied, with some bitterness. "Oh, pshaw!" was her only reply, as she proceeded to gathei up the fruits of the fall. This indifference produced a coldness between them that lasted for quite a while, but each kept up their farming.   FARMNG FOR FUN.         15 Budd was rejoiced be- yond measure at the pros, pect before him. Every square inch of his territory had something on it. His grape-vines grew finely, only they seemed to be troubled with worms, as also were his trees, two of which were of good size, and probably planted five or six years before. This troubled him  as worms himself, and he be, gan to call on his neighbors who had gardens, to learn  -how they e ,eated their worms, and -also to read all the agricultural papers HE GETS A GENEROUS DOSE OF THE he could get hold of, in SOAP-SUDS, AND HOWLS BLOOiDY MUR- order to learn' what he should do.          :  Finally, he concluded to take the advice of a friend who had  nancipated his trees. This advice was, to rocure a huge Tringe, and treat his vines every morning to generous bath strong soap-suds. Budd had read of this be reand he felt tat he just had a soft thing on those worms,. So one morning he got a tub full of suds and began opera. ons. The syringe was large and had a wonderful squirt. "Ha, ha!" quoth he; "the early bird getteth the worm." Just at'that moment he brought his machine to bear upon a not-hole in the fence, and gave a strong squirt of strong soap  :i   * 1 6        FARMNG FOR FUN. suds to the Biddy of his next-door neighbor, who happened to be working in range. The result may be imagined. That Biddy was used to soap-suds, but not to having it in her eyes in large quantities." So she howled, and danced and shouted bloody murder; and when Budd got up on a step-ladder to look over to see what he had done, she made a "lep "for him and knocked him over backwards sprawling. Nor was she satisfied with that. She..gathered up a few bricks, pieces of coal, and getting upon another step-ladder she bombarded the poor farmer until he was nearly dead, and gladly took shelter in the kitchen. "Bad luck ter yees, yer ondacint spalpeen ye! I'll tache yer how ter 'buse a dacint gurl, so I will," she yelled, still looking over the fence and shaking her fist in the direction of the refuge he had taken.   : "Come out here, yer dirty blackguard, an' I'll give yer another taste of me. Whoop.! Sind out yer ould woman, 'till I'd put. a head on her, too. Whoop! Sind out yer gurl, the bloody Far Down!" she yelled. There was where she made a mistake, for there was a Greek to meet a Greek, and when she called aloud for satisfaction, and denounced Budd's servant as a "bloody Far Down," that rollicking creature ran out and gave her battle, pulling her over the fence and rolling her over Budd's garden, until the police were called in and took them both away. All this just for a little soap-suds! It was nearly a week before Budd recovered from the effects of that soap-suds squirt. But he had an elastic nature, and gradually ventured forth to his farm work again. In the meantime the grass upon Mrs. Budd's little lawn thad grown luxuriously. Mrs. Budd said, "The tresses of our lovely- lawn are too long for this hot weather, my love, don't you. think so?" \   -FARMNG FOR FUN.        * 17  "Yes, dear, they should be clipped; I'll be the barber," re plied Budd, smiling under his mustache. "How will you do it, ducky?." "With my little mowing-machine, aovey." "Let me see yu work it, ducky." "I will do so, dovey." "1 Wihmltlmwngmcinavy" Le m  ee   wr i  uk. "Iwildosodve.   18         FARMNG FOR FUN. So Budd trotted out his lawn mower, and began to fool around with it. "What a triumph of art! What a glorious thing it is to be a working Granger," chirped Budd, as he shoved his machine through the grass. "Yes, ducky, but-Ho! ho! hold on, Tim!"- shouted Mrs. B., darting towards him. "Hold on, for heaven's sake! you have caught Fido in your machine." "Lord! so I have; I thought it was working kinder hard," replied Budd. "Oh, you careless wretch! you unfeeling. brute! There is poor Fido's head all mowed off." "So it is. Guess he don't wan't any more," said Budd, with ghastly grin. "Wretch! wretch! and can you make a pun in the face of my misery?" moaned his wife. "How could I help it? The little fool got in my way," snarled Budd. "Why, the little darling was playing with it and to think -you should be so stupid." "And to think that he should daub my mower-in such a way." '"To think that I am married to such an idiot!" moaned Mrs. IBudd, as she contemplated the decapitated poodle prone upon the earth. "Well, my love, we can bury him at the root of our grape- vine and enjoy him hereafter." "Wretch! I wish I could bury you there," she hissed as she gathered up her skirts and started for the house. "Guess she is mad about something," mused Budd, as he went for his spade. "Poor Fido! I wonder if he had an idea that he could get his hair cropped when he jumped into that machine 2" Fido was laid tenderly at the roots of the grape-vine, and   FARMNG FOR FUN.         1 X Mrs. Buddc cried until her eyes  were red, and then went to see               - her ma. Women always go         .      \" ViT   ,i l' to see their ma whenever their      -, \ils ' husbands mar their pleasures.  - ,.  Budd tried to coax her to-                       . come back home, but she would not be coaxed. She had not had her pout out yet  ;So  Budd got his back up, and took  || up his quarters at the Astor  House for a week or two, or until such time as his wife should consent to return. At the end of two weeks she    x sent for him, asking him how  - much longer he was going to-  make a fool of himself. So he went to her ma's house and  took her home again, and they I  made up and buried the hatch- ia                 | et between them as deep as  Fido had been hidden, and he bought her an elegant purp to  ALARM OF MR. BUDD ON I1 RE- fill the aching void in her TIRN AT BEHOLDING THE GROWTH heart. OF IS ASPARAGUS. But what was Budd', surprise on going into his neglected garden again. The asparagus had improved the time and'had grown nearly to the top of the house, while the worms had eaten nearly every leaf off his vines and trees. He sighed and cussed that day. He cut the ambitious plants, and then went for the ambitious worms. In this he had some trouble. He concluded not to use his  20         FARMNG FOR FUN. squirt-gun any-more, for he still remembered the Biddy of the next yard. So he consulted his friends and brother Grangers as to what he should do. They told him to whitewash his trees, and he attempted to do so, whitening the leaves, branches and trunks. It was a terrible job, and long before he got through the ground was as'white as in mid-winter. Before he got half done, but not before he got half tired, Budd could hear the neighbors laughing at him, and he felt sad at their ignorance regarding worms and farming generally. But the neighbors kept out of sight behind the blinds of their windows, where they laughed to their hearts' content, while the servants indulged in pointed comments, equivocal in their na- tures. His particular enemy, the next-yard Biddy, went for him like a terrier for a flea. "Hout! ye blackguard! Have yees the wurms agin?" said she, coming out on the back stoop. Budd made no reply. "Och! a nate lookin' whitewasher ye are, sure. Faith, how'd yet like to whitewash the Park 2" This was rubbing it in, and Budd spoke: "Do you wish to see our girl again?" "Faith, I do. I'd sa yer gurl, an' yer ould woman an' yer- silf, be gob! Whoop! Come on!" Budd became disgusted and retired, while Biddy protruded her tongue and gyrated her fingers with her thumb resting on her nose. These were only a few of the annoyances which this gallant Granger had to put up with. He felt that he was suffering nobly for a cause, and so he held his peace and struggled on. But the worms increased in size and numbers to such an ex- tent that Budd began to fear that they would ruin his garden I 1   1r '   1t 1 '    FARMNG FOR FUN.          21 BUDD HEARS THE NEIGHBORS LATTUGHNG AT HS W rl'TiWASHNG  PERFORMANCES, AND HE SIGHS FORr TlrE IGNORANCE, His next move was to buy a saw, and cut off the limbs where? on these worms had taken lodgment, and again the neighbors laughed, and again did that provoking next-door Biddy rail at and make fun of him. But Budd was made of the right mate. rial, and by constant and determined application he at last conquered the whrms, and his garden began to bloom again. But things were somewhat mixed in his garden. Mrs. Budd, it will be remembered, planted flower-seeds among her husband's garden truck, and he, to surprise her, tucked in a pototo, a ker nel of corn, or a few onions, among her flowers.   22          FARMNG FOR FUN. These friendly plantings now began to show themselves forth and to tangle slightly. - Thus, in her flower bed, embracing a sample of everything, a hill of carrots, a hill of potatoes, a lot of onions, some cabbages and some  aullifowers, began to show up.              f Among Budd's vegetables began to show samples of morning- glories, tube-roses, -gladiolas, Indian shot, four-oclocks, pan- sies, &c.,- &c. This was not so pleasant a surprise to Budd as it might have been, for there was no room for his vegetables, to say nothing of the prospect of hoeing and cultivating. Budd looked serious and scratched the rear end of his head, while his wife laughed and pretended to" be delighted at the prospect. "Meliin:dLi I fear we shall have to weed out something here," said he. "Yes; suppose we pull up your vegetables " said his wife, archly. "What?" "Why, always destroy the poorest." "Melinda, you must be crazy." ". Not at all; you must see by this time that your things will come to nothing, and we may as well pull them up and let my beautiful flowers have a chance." "Melinda, I fear you wish to hurt my feelings.'" "No; all I want is to destroy all these nasty vegetables." "Melinda, you are cruel." "No; they won't mind it."  "But my feelings 2" "You won't feel it." "Oh, Melinda!" "You know that your planting won't come to anything; it never did, Timothy." "It isnt my fault, Melinda." '   FARMNG FOR FUN.          23 BUDDIS LAST RESORT TO GET RID OF WORMS ON HS TREES. "Perhaps you esteem it the fault of the soil?" "Don't let us wrangle, Melinda. I shall have a fine crop of vegetables if you will only let me remove your useless flowers.7" u Useless, indeed! Do you know the value of the beautiful, Mr. Budd?".: "Didn't I marry you on that account a" "Let me remove your garden sass? "Allow me to squelch your posies?" "No            .-  "Then I will be equally obstinate." "All right. What then?" "Let us compromise." "In what way  "Let things stand." "Let:            uscmpoise." '"I  wha way-  ':                  "L e tings sand.   24         FARMNG FOR FUN. "They will come to nothing, r Mr. Budd."' "Melinda, I have always done  my best for you." "Well, let things stand just as they are. I can put up with it if you can. But I am certain that  all you raise could be bought for  fifty cents." "I will convince you of your THE ABOVE IS NOT "THE MAN IN error, Mrs. Budd."       THE MOON," HUT MR. BUDD "Everything will wilt before LOOKING OUT INTO HS GAR- harvest."           D DEN TO ASCERTAIN WHAT "Then your flowers will sap THE TROUBLE WAS. (What them."            it was is shown in the next This wrangle ended in :a com- illustration.) promise to allow things to take their own course. But there were other troubles besides worms and mixed va- rieties. All the cats in the neighborhood appeared to congre- gate in his back yard for gymnastic exercise and musical re- hearsals. Budd said he was fully convinced that feline nature never fully develops except in a flower-garden. When compelled to promenade on fence-tops and upon wood-sheds their music is less spirited and their fighting comparatively tame, but with a good open garden, with flowers and shrubbery for them to play in and around, then they not oly gather in greater numbers, but their performances attract pore general attention from the neighbors., The first occurrence of the kind, the first night of the oper- atic season, the music and confusion awakened and alarmed Mrs. Budd, who at once proceeded to punch her spouse in the ribs. "Timothy Budd, I'm sure the devil is loose in our back yard." On       on   FARMNG FOR FUN.         25 Ha!what? Devil?" he stammered, rising up and looking *confusedly around. "Don't you hear?" "Cats!" was his laconic reply. "And like as not they will break into my chicken-coop and destroy all of my little feathered darlings. Get up and drive them away." Timothy grunted and turned out upon the floor. Proceeding to the window, he threw open the shutters and looked down upon his garden. What a sight met his gaze! About twenty cats were engaged in a rough-and-touble fight on his strawherry bed, while the windows of half a dozen houses in the immediate neighborhood were open, and protruded heads were yelling "scat!" and indignant arms were hurling bootq SCENE IN BUDD'S GARDEN AT NIGHT. BOOTS, BOTTLES, ETC. b4EN IN BY INDIGNANT NEIGHBORS,   26          FARMNG FOR FUN. bottles, blacking-brushes, cakes of soap, articles of chamber crockery. ware, etc., etc. into their midst, and breaking down whatever the cats failed to demolish.  "Hold on!" shouted Budd. "Kill those cussed cats!" yelled THE RESTULT OF ATTEMPTING somebody.            TO POISON THE TORMENTING "I can't; but you'll spoil my CATS. MRS. BUDD'S CHCY.- garden," moaned Budd.      ENS COME TO GRIEF INSTEAD. At that moment four or five pistol shots stacrtled that portion of the neighborhood which had not been roused up to that time. "Murder!" shouted several. More pistol shots from other directions. More murder and screaming from various directions. Fifty dogs barking in the neighborhood. By this time the cats concluded that they were attracting too much attention, and began to scatter. One of them failed to scatter, however, for a bullet had scattered him, and he was doing his best to destroy the few remaining strawherry plants in Budd's bed by putting in a few energetic ante mortem kicks In an hour more, peace and quietude reigned in that neigh- borhood, and the warriors were all scattered about, repairil; damages and coaxing their backs down. But Mrs. Budd's back was not got down quite so easily. She was mad, and demanded of her husband that he set traps for or poison those dreadful felines beyond the possibility of their ever disturbing the neighborhood, menacing her chickens or de- stroying the garden again. Budd promised to do so, and he tried it; but alas! the cats escaped, and his wife's chickens all went under, poisoned by the meat left for the cats. Was Mrs. Budd mad .   - '       FARMNG FOR FUN.         27 Millii MRS. BUDD PROCEEDS GO ENLIGHTEN HER HUSBAND WITH A "ARGE PIECE OF HER MND, REGARDING HS SAGACITY AND GEN- i ERAL BUSINESS QUALIFICATIONS. CONSIDERING ALL THAT HAS "ATELY HAPPENED, Mt. BUDD HAP WOTING TO SAY. Was Mr. Budd sorry? Both questions may be answered in the affirmative. Mrs. Budd went down to feed her cackling and crowing dar- lings the next morning, and found the whole lot with'their toes turned up.               --   28          FARMNG FOR FUN. Well, she knew what ailed them, and she went right in to where Budd sat and told him what the matter was with her. -She had a tongue and she used it, while her husband looked sorry and ventured no particular reply. "Why don't you manifest some feeling?" she asked, rising and facing him. "I'm sorry," he murmured, abstractedly. "Yes, you look sorry," and here her irony came in. "I be. lieve you did it on purpose," she screamed, and unable to con- trol herself any longer she let down her back hair and began to cry.. Budd went out and dug a hole by the roots of his grape vine and buried his wife's poultry out of sight, after which he went down town to business. It was several days before they were on speaking terms again. She pouted and stayed with her mother one night, and pouted and stayed with her husband for the next few nights. But he touched her heart by bringing her' home a pair of pouter pigeons and some nice well-dressed chickens for dinner; and so in time things smiled again, and the dilapidated garden and pouting wife began to look nice once more. But Budd was unfortunate nearly all the time, although he done his best to be a good family man and first-class Granger. While wetting his farm with the hose one evening, he took it into his head to turn the stream up to his wife's window gar- den, thinking to please her by so doing. 'But alas! being a trifle near-sighted, he did not see that the sash was up, but it was, and Mrs. Budd's favorite canary hung there and received the bulk of that-stream. Mrs. Budd screamed and Inade a dive for the window, but ducked -under to avoid the ducking, and vowed to poison her fool of a husband. After *he had wet the carpet -and -furniture, including the   FARMNG FOR FUN. MR. BUDD ATTEMPTS TO DO A LITTLE ACT OF KINDNESS BY WATEIM ING HS WIFE 'S WINDOW PLANTS WITr HIS GARDEN HOSE, BUT NOTSEEING THE OPEN WINDOW, HE WETS OTHER THNGS, ANDI OBLIGES HS WIFE TO Cc DUCK!"IN ORDER TO AVOID A DUCKING. matrimonial couch, he turned the stream in another direction, at which she seized a large flower-pot and hurled it at his head and shut the window down, let down her hair (as she' always did under a heavy pressure of emotion) and began to change her clothing. The flower-pot struck Budd on the back and knocked him sprawling. He instantly thought that the stream of water had 'done the mischief, and began to study up excuses and apologies for what he had done, knowing how mad his wife would be about it. Well he was right about her being mad, but he was wrong   3       PARKSFARMNGSO FOR FUN. about the cause. And Biddy was mad about it, too, and said she wouldn't marry a Granger if he was the last man in the world. But such little things will happen in the best families, and of course, Budd could not hope to escape it. Yet the storm blew over, as other storms had blown by, and again everything was lovely and sunshiny. Budd prospered after a fashion with his farm, and at the earnest recommendation of an agent, he bought half a dozen fancy hens-Shanghais-and gave his whole attention to their development. This pleased Mrs. Budd for a few days; but when the Shang. hai rooster took it into his head to eat one of her pretty doves for lunch, then she gave Budd some more of, her mind, and he sneaked out of the house ana went to his business, feeling as though life was a failure, and raising fancy breeds of hens a grievous burden. But Budd learned soon after that it was not worth half so much trouble to raise fancy breeds of hens as he had lavished upon them, and he was taught the lesson by a boy who lived on Thirty-third street, directly back of his house. This boy was a genius. He will probably make even more noise in the world than he made in illustrating to Budd how easily a Shanghai rooster could be raised. He may yet become a whisky distiller in some-one of our prisons. ' But this is how the boy showed what an easy thing it is to raise fancy fowls. The boy had a fish-hook and line. He baited that hook with a kernel of corn, and then taking a ladder, he placed it against the home side of the extra high fence which Budd had built to keep out boys and cats, and mounting that ladder he threw the baited hook before those fancy hens and waited the result. Budd heard a cackle of distress, and looking out he saw his O                "    / .   '   bought her an elegant purp to  ALARM OF MR. BUDD ON I1 RE- fill the aching void in her TIRN AT BEHOLDING THE GROWTH heart. OF IS ASPARAGUS. But what was Budd', surprise on going into his neglected garden again. The asparagus had improved the time and'had grown nearly to the top of the house, while the worms had eaten nearly every leaf off his vines and trees. He sighed and cussed that day. He cut the ambitious plants, and then went for the ambitious worms. In this he had some trouble. He concluded not to use his  She had not yet recovered from the loss of her dove, and so she gave him some short reply of a sarcastic nature, and he concluded to doctor.himself and get solace at the same time out of a certain bottle.  Day after day one of those, fancy hens was raised over that high fence and in- stantly disappeared, no one, on Budd's side, knew where. But the singular ease with which hens could be raised in the city was nicely demonstrated  'THo WAY THEY "RAISE FANCY BREEDS OF HENS IN THE CITY.   32       INFARMNG FOR FUN. Budd was dazed. He never attempted to find out where his hens went to or what caused them to go; he almost began to doubt whether he ever had any hens' qr not. -So to avoid a spell of brain fever he gave up the idea of taking the first premium at the next hen-opera (why not a hen-show a hen-opera? It is a place of many lays, isn't it?) and turned the light of his genius upon his early potatoes. They weren't quite so early as they should have been, and he concluded it was because they had been slighted. And they were grafted potatoes, too, warranted to make the potato bugs sick at the first attack. But he was destined to learn that they were very early po- tatoes after all, for by the assistance of some outsider they came up over his fence veryearly one morning, every one he had. Budd visited his potato hills the next morning and found them potatoless valleys. He never felt quite certain about their disappearance, but concluded that they must have been attack- ed by a detachment of potato bugs. Up to this point I have said nothing about Budd's relations, or rather, his wife's relations; but as they are to figurel some- what in this story, and whereas we have become pretty well acquainted with his style of farming, together with his haps and mishaps, perhaps it would be as well to introduce them here, and allow Budd's farm to run itself until autumn. Budd's wife's -uncle, Dr. Doremus Puddle, was a great scientist. He lived on an experimental farm a short distance out on Long Island, and wrote long articles for the papers on the domestic habits of grub worms and potato bugs, and the out-door nature of the yellow pumpkin. He also delivered lectures on the best methods for curing pip in chickens, and the philosophy of plant- ing cats around the roots of grape-vines. So when he heard that Budd had become a Granger and was experimenting with nature in his back yard, he concluded to pay him a visit, and vaccinate him with a little-of his knowledge.   He dawn ed upon Budd one morning, and at once, began to educate him. He' went through that little farm, explaining everything with which he came in con- tact, but 'never discovered that his relation had done anything wrong. He sim ply contended that Budd needed more agricultural knowledge of a scientific nature. Of course, Budd listened to his learned relative, and agreed with everything he said on any ,subject. How could he do otherwise? rWas not Dr. Puddle the great au- thority on everything relat- ing to everything  Then Puddle got him up in a corner and began t o pump him full of knowledge -lafter this -fashion: "Take,' for instance, the common white bean, known among us scientists as -Faba major' It is very-important that the cultivator should ascertain the amount of juv. inum and advalorum con. tained in the altitudinum of 'MR BUDD'S EARLY POTATOES COME UP (OVER THE GARDEN FENCE, AS ABOVE,) VERY "EARLY"ONE MORNING.   3g4 i        FARMING FOR FUN. the cobanginous tratum of the ripabus, .otherwise known as mould, see?" "Yes, certainly," replied Budd; I have always contended that it should be so." "Then for the matter of agitatus fertilizabus. This should always be proportipned to the continuity of- the tendrilacious inclination. Anything short of such a juxtaposition of these unities will be sure to develop an anti-podity that will tend 'to disappoint the scientific cultivator at the period of general ripening." "Yes, I think so," replied Budd, gasping for breath. 'Again, let us examine into the scientific relations of the red beet, called by the'learned, Beta Cicla. The Beta requires a subsoilicity of embedment, that is of a mellow nature, else the bulba is forced to the suiface and fails to receive its quota of sabibus nutribus, and in consequence, the interior cells become abnormally vacuated, and the oxygen to which it is exposed enters its cellarious constructions and the result is a spongidity of condition which makes its commercial value non est, and its palpability to the cells of the tongue a disappointment and a lapsus intendi." "Oh, lord!" moaned Budd. "You see now the value of scientific knowledge." "Yes. If I had known as much is you do, Doctor, I should never have attempted to raise beans or beets." "Undoubtedly. But remember one thing: it is never too late to learn. Why, I revel in science; I make it subservient to all my doings. Why, not long since I set my man to shoot -the rcobins-that destroyed my plums and fruit, but he, poor, ig. borant fellow, he could not get near enough to kill them, and so I'showed him what a little science would do. He managed to kill two robins, and the others took warning and kept out of range. So I had those birds stuffed, and placed one on his hat anda one unnon my own.  This reassured the robins when we   F ARMNG FOR' -FU.        3 !                      i -B1DD'S W1F'S  UCEBLEARNED IR    . VORlEUS PUDDLE, AS Bms ^WsTH^TNHLE? r^ ^D os PTHE EA iHE APPEARED AT HS EXPERIMENTAL FAR'M. went out into the orchard, and they came around as fast as we could load and fire." "Very ingenious," said Budd. By the way, that learned Doctor neglected to state that his man mistook the stuffed bird on his hat for one that was trying to stuff himself with cherries, and so let go a charge of shot which ruined the Doctor's hat anid chipped offa piece of his ear, No,  ile never mentioned that occurrence.   36         WBVARMNG FOR FUN. "But, Budd, I take great interest in you. I am proud to know that the husband of my niece is ambitious to shine as an experimental agriculturist. Keep on. Come and see me when. ever you need information on any subject. and I will make it clear as noonday to you."' "Thanks," said Budd; and then suddenly starting up he thought of a subject on which he would like a little enlighten- ment just then. 1oREE SCIENCE. HOW DOCTOR PUDDLE SEDUCED THE ROBBER 'ROBINS IN HS ORCHARD.  :ROBINS IN HnIS ORtCHARD.   F ARXING FOR FU.         37 IBUtDD RETURNS WITH A SACK OF DR. PUDDLE'S "MPALPALACIOUS WORRIMENT," FOR THE BENEFIT OF HS GARDIEN SASS. -"One question, Doctor, while I think of it. The other night -my early potatoes were looking splendidly. When I went out -the next morning the ground appeared to be freshy turned, and only the tops of my potatoes remained. Now, what was the caif of that, think you?" "Ah, the augerous uprootabus bugabus, without doubt. I have known them to go through whole fields of potatoes in a single night." "You mean-that is .to say, potato bugs?" "Exactly. For further particulars read my complete treatise 'on the nature and extermination of this pest, to be found in   -38         FAR)MNG FOR FUN. every complete library. And, by the bye, if you will come out to my- farm I will gi:ve, you a sack of my Impalpalacious Wor- riment; sure death to this terrible pest. In fact, a little of it sprinkled on the soil will keep them forever away." "I will go out and get some for the benefit of my other gar- den truck," said Budd, eagerly. "You will thereby show your wisdom." Budd could not help believing what his learned relation had told him, although" he didn't understand a word of it;, but at alloevents he resolved to pay the Doctor a .isit, and get a sack of that Impalpalacious Worriment, and he did so, returning nearly crazy with what he had learned about vegetation and raising things. The "Worriment"'^waiharmless, so far as his vegetation .was concerned, for it did not appear to kill anything; and as for bugs, Budd came to the conclusion that they had finished their, yearly work and passed to the next garden before he got the infillible Worriment at work upon them.. Then Budd's wife's mother had an uncle that paid them a. visit. He was a Dutchman and didn't pretend to scientific knowledge of any kind. He enjoyed his long pipe and good stories the most of anything. There was only one objection to his inclination to tell funny stories: he had a habit of telling the same story over three or four times a day,-forgetting that he had told it before. This. would pass as a novelty for a week or so, and might p!rhaps be called an eccentricity during the second week of its continuance, but to keep it up right along was apt to be felt as monotonous. This particular story was related as something that happened to himself, and was intended as a severe satire on milkmen. It run as follows: "Dat ish how it vas, don't you see?"And then he would take three or four pulls at his pipe "You see dot I had a cat,.   FARMNG FOR FUN.        ;   39 Und dot cat she vas neffer weaned pooty goot, I dinks, for she loaf ter milk so well, don'd you see?" More pulls at his pipe. "Vell, von morning dot cat she go mit me oud ter valk unt shmoke mine pipe, unt she skipped along unt fint a powl of milk settin' ont a vinder sill, unt she make herself acquainted mit dot milk, don'd you see?" More smoke; seemingly in no hurry. "Val, py unt py, preddy quick almost ash lightning dot man vot bay for dot milk he come oud mit a boot-john unt he strike dot cat, unt don'd hit her, I guess nod. So, py tam, dot cat she jynt avay all right." "' Pees dot your cat?' say ter man, so mat. "' Yaw, dot ish mine cat,' I say. "' Val, ter tuyflish shutt, she trink mine milk,' say dot man,. unt den I laugh. Unt den he vas mat some more, unt say- "'Your eat she eat mine milk.' "' Val,' I say, ' I hope it von't hurt ter poor ding,' unt den, py jinks, he vas chust so mat agin dot he danced oud ter top of his het. Ha! ha! ha!" The reader will observe that the laugh comes in at this point.. But it can readily be understood how many times a person could laugh at this same story. But Budd's wife's mother's uncle did not remain more than a week or two after he wasn't wanted, and again Budd was left alone, and had a change to work out some of Dr. Puddle's ideas in his back-yard farm. He didn't wish to bore the Doctor who had -been so kind to hinm, but he yearned to read his treatise on the Augerous Up- rootabus. &  So he began the rounds of the book-stores, and made inquiries for it. But they all shook their heads and said they had never heard of it.    40          FARMNG FOR FUN. Then he began to visit the libraries and to bore the librarians about that treatise. But they all shook their heads and said that there was nothing on their catalogues bearing that name. But, come to think of it,- being a ponderous, high-toned sub- ject, on abstruse art or something of that kind, he concluded after all that -he would be more likely to find it at the den of somre Bibliopolist--those old book-worms who take up whatever nobody understands. He found one of these Bibliomaniacs on Nassau street, and tried him. These old fellows don't move very fast, and Budd was told to come again in anfew days and he would receive an answer. In the meantime the old book-worm called in one of his learned brothers,* and together they went through their shelves and cat- alogues, but, alas! without finding the desired work. This was too much. That a book with such a high-sounding title could not be foundy drove them both to madness, and they commenced to bang each other over the head with musty and forgotten tomes, and to call each other jackasses and ignoramuses. And that is how it served those to whom he made his last appeal. And when Budd went into the old bookstore to get- his answer regarding the work and found these learned brothers still banging away at each other, he became disgusted- with so much learning and left them to fight it out. He was gradually beginning to see that he was making an ass of himself in departing from the simple path of common sense, and what he had learned and could lear'by experience. The papers were full of the reports of agricultural and cattle shows, and Budd said to Mrs. Budd: "My love, let us go to a regular cattle show." "What do we care about cattle, Tim ar" "Well, perhaps nothing; but they have all kinds of splendid fowls and fruits, and flowers and garden vegetables; I think we should enjoy it."   FARMNG FOR eFUN.          4:1 1 r THE ABOVE IS AN ILLUSTRATION OF   BUDD'S WIFE S MOTIlCJLS UNCLE'S STORY ABOUT HS JOKE ON THE MLK1MEN. "Perhaps we should," remarked Melinda, softly. "The Grangers will be there in great numbers, and you can see what real nice people they are." "Are they all as nice as you are, Tim a" "Yes, I guess they are." "And do they know as much about farming?"   42         FARMNG FOR FUN. "Well, I don't know, but probably they do. But never mind, let us go." And go they did, out: into the country a few miles, where they found a crowd of people from the surrounding section and the city, all mixed up in the most confused sort of a way, with cattle, swine, fowls, vegetables, and all the various etcet- eras of a country cattle show. It was new to both Budd and his wife, and they took to it right away. Budd, being the .most practical farmer of the two,. acted as conductor and instructor as they picked and twisted their way through the crowd surrounding the pens and stands. At length they stopped before a pig-pen in which was a little fat, curly-tailed grunter, so fat, in fact, that he could not stand apon his legs, and, seen "stem on," would have puzzled wiser Grangers than Mr. and Mrs. Budd to say at first glance just. what it was. "Dear me I what is that, Tim a" she asked, pointing to the fat little porker. "That? Why, that is-is a-a rootabaga squash, my dear. Don't you see the stem?" he added, pointing to the pig's curly tail. , "Lordy, yes; how ignorant I am," humbly mused Mrs. Budd. As they moved away they failed to observe the broad grin that overspread the bronzed mugs of several Grangers who -stood about the pig-pen. They plunged deeply into the festivities of the cattle show, and, in fact, took it all in and were delighted. Mrs. Budd had never attended a fair of this kind before, and she actually tired her husband out, and he sat down while she continued on and was soon lost to sight. But he knew she could take care of herself anywhere. Budd began to rest his anatomy, when a pedlar of fancy soaps approached, thrust the stakes of his little table into the ground within a fewfeet of him, and began to "hold forth."   FARMNG FOR FUN.         43 1 Ii. A PAIR OF BIBLIOMANIACS WHOM BUDD STARTED TO HUNT TTP THE WORK OF HS LEARNED W1FE'S UNCLE, ON THE NATURE, HABITS AND UTTIJI EXLXTEMNATION OF THE "AUGEROUS UPROOTABUS."- Budd expected a crowd to follow, but, to his astonishment, not a soul followed the itinerant. They had probably been bored with him quite enough, and gladly left him alone. Besides; there was a Punch and Judy show, a learned pig, a dancing rooster, snake charmer, talking cow, and several other entertain- ments of like nature which absorbed general attention and left. tXe poor soap man entirely out in the cold. But he was determined to be heard, if he didn't sell a cake.   "         FAR3IING FOR FUN.  He was bound to talk if he could only get a single person to address. So h' began to address himself to Budd, treating him as though he was a crowd. "My dear Christian friends, we are enjoined by the Scrip- tures to wash and be clean, but how are we to-do so without soap? This, my friends, is an original discovery of mine; I am the great and only original New England soap man. My fame is borne on the four wings of heaven, each gust of which also bears the perfumes'of my soap. "I contend that I have performed a wonderful feat-a feat that should entitle me to canonizing, since I have discovered a way whereby men may obey a Scriptural injunction. My soap not only enables mankind to wash and be clean, but it removes tan, freckles, cotns, chapped hands and lips, boils, pimples, gray hair, premature age, cures nervousness and gout, and, in short, is a sovereign remedy for all the ills that flesh is heir to. "And, my friends," he continued, "I have still further laid humanity under obligation to me by building this soap so that it can be sold at the astonishingly low price of twenty five cente per cake. Now, gentlemen, come and see me!" he added, hold- ing up a box of his soap. Gentlemen" didn't respond very much. "Have a cake, sir?" he added, approaching Budd. "Hey?" asked Budd, in well supplied wonder. "Have a cake of this wonderful soap?" "Write on a slate what you want; I am deaf," said he. "Thunder and blazes!" (he talked stronger than that, dear reader, but in a country of general information and education the subject can be dope justice to by those who can imagine them- selves in his place.) Have I been wasting all this gas over a deaf galloot? But maybe I can stick him on a cake of this stuff," he added, writing the price and an abstract of its merits on a piece of paper and handing it to Budd.   FARMNG FOR FUN.         45 I            ' MR. AND MRS. BUDD AT THE CATTIL SHOW. Mrs. B.--DEAR ME! WHAT IS THAT, TIM? Mr. B.- THAT? WHY, THAT IS--IS A---A ROOTABAGA SQUASH SEE THE STEM 2 Mrs. B.--LORDY, YES! HOW IGNORANT I AM! "Oh, soap for sale, eh? Good! I want some soap," and thinking he had enjoyed a quarter's worth of fun out of the old fellow, he bought the cake. "Ah, you old snoozer," said the pedlar, as he took the money, "I haven't lost much on you, after all. Only cost me two cents, and it's the worst old mush you ever saw, you cussed old wood en head!" It will readily be understood that the pedlar wes getting rid of his accumulated indignation, and, thinking that he was talk. ing to a deaf man, he had no fears of what mightfollow. 1   16    -    FARMNG FOR FUN. On the other hand, it-will be seen that Budd had been en. joying a little joke with the pe dlar, but when he came to free his mind in this way, Budd concluded that he hadn't had so much fun, after all. But he smothered his indigniation, and, leaping to his feet, suddenly remembered that he had been absent from his wife quite a while. Where was she ' He started at once to ascer tain. "Melinda!" he murmured, as he darted here and there in the crowd, looking for his lost mate. But he could find her nowhere. Had she got lost, or had he? Had she eloped with somebody, or had he? Like a lost sheep he wandered anxiously about, even to the outskirts of the show, but Melinda was nowhere to be found. While fooling around in this way, he got into a large sheep pen without knowing it; in fact, he didn't know anything, only that he had lost his Melinda. "Melinda!" he cried, "where on earth are you?" At that instant an old ram poised himself and came down upon the deserted husband with a whack just below his coat- tail which sent him sprawling upon the ground. "Melinda!" he moaned, getting up on all fours, "you needn't get so mad about it; I didn't mean to lose you." The ram saw another elegant opportunity while our hero was on all fours, and he again butted him over upon the grqund, at which the crowd, which had gathered to see the gratuitous ex- hibition, roared with delight. Budd began to comprehend the situation, and he started to get out of that pen quicker than this one can write it. But the old ram, who evidently looked upon Budd as an interloper, gave him great trouble, administering several good whacks as he retreatc,. At last he opefrc his big umbrella and managed to keep the ram at bay, and so escaped.   FARMNG FOR FUN.         47  ANOTHER CATTLE SHOW INCIDENT. WHLE LOOKING FOR HS "OST MELINDA, MR. BUDD GETS INTO THE SHK kRPEN, AND T His wife had been attracted by the crowd, and she was out.  side of the pen to receive him. "You are a healthy Granger, aren't you?" she sneered. "Why, Melinda, I was looking for you," he whimpered. "Looking for me in a sheep pen, eh 1 Let's go home. I have had all the cattle show I want?' "So have I, Melinda. Gracious! how tht rascally sheep did bite me."              h "Bite! why, it was a ram, and he butted you," said his wife, as they struggled out of the crowd. Budd was only too glad to reach the depot and return to   48         FARmNG FOR PUN. New York. But after the ridiculousness of his adventure came fully upon him he agreed to buy his wife a new silk dress if she would promise never to mention it. On arriving home they found Grandfather Budd there await- ing their return. The old gentleman had not made them a visit before since they had got settled in their new house, and consequently both son and daughter were very glad to see him. The old man was as deaf as a pump, and carried a huge ear- trumpet around with him, thrusting it into everybody's face who chanced to pucker their mouth as though wishing to speak to him. He was really a comical old cuss, and created much amuse- ment in the neighborhood with his huge tin trumpet He would elevate it whenever he saw the slightest commotion anywhere. But he was a good -gardener, and spent the greater portion of his time trying to make something out of his son's back-yard farm, and, after a week or so, managed to get it into something like rational shape. He was working there early one morning, when the milkman began to yell at the gate and to kick it as though a part of his duty to his customers consisted in knocking down their outer barricades. "Eh! what's that?" queried the old man. Again the milkman yelled like an Indian. Biddy had not yet come down stairs. "Hey!" shouted thie old Granger, elevating his trumpet. "Milk! hey! ho! he!"  Budd Sr. could hardly understand what was wanted. He suspected that a gang of robbers might be outside, so he ap- proached the gate on the inside and elevated his huge hearing apparatus so that it came above the top of the gate. "Hey?" he shouted again. !"Milk! Hurry up! What's the matter wid youse a"   FARMNG FOR FUN.         49' A HOWLING :MTTRMA V 'APPROACHES BUDD'S OUTER GATE: "Deaf," replied the old fellow, catching the last question all right enough. "What?" yelled the chalk-and-water fiend. "In here!" replied old Budd, elevating his trumpet still higher, and meaning to have him speak his wants into its boss end. "Why didn't yer say so before. ." replied the man, turning -two quarts of milk into the mouth of the trumpet and going away about his business. Was old Budd surprised? Was old Budd- mad? Was old BuOdd inclined to cuss? and, finally, was his auricular apparatus   50       -   FARMNG FOR FUN. squirted full of milk? Well, you bet, it would be safe to say yes to all these questions. He danced around like a chap with a bumblebee in his trowsers. lHe slipped up, and, while on his back flourishing his huge ear-trumpet as though it was a tomahawk and he was swing- ing it at some approaching foe, he called loudly on high heaven to show him the man that squirted him full of whitewash. Biddy made her appearance and ran to the old man's as- sistance. BUDD SR., 'VHLE AT WORKNIN HS SON'S GARDEN, HEARS SOME- TLaNG OF THE ROW THAT THE MTTKJMANT IS MAKTNG, AND ELEVATES HS TRUMPET TO HEAR WHAT IT IS.   FALnMNG FOR FUN.        6  -                APPROACHNG THE GATE, HE ELEVATES IIIS TRUMPET STILL 1IjIGHER, AND DEMANDS TO KNOW WHAT THE ROW IS ALL ABOUT, WHEN THE MLKMAN, MSTAKING IT FOR A YISH, EMPTIES TWO QUARTS OF MLK THEREIN, GREATLY TO THE DISGUST AND ALARM OF THE ELDER BUDD. She knew it would do no good to ask him what the matter was unless she did so through his horn, and she could not ap- proach that without endangering her life. He appeared blind. ed by milk, and still keeping his eyes closed and his feet and hands agoing while prone upon his back, Biddy naturally con. eluded that he had run mad or was possessed of the deviL "Faith, if it's the hyhdrafoby he has, a squirt of wather will (      ',  *   52         FARMNG FOR FUN. do him good." So she turned on the water, and taking the garden hose she began to play upon the old man. Then he got up real quick, and, diving in her direction, he began to play upon her with his hearing trumpet, whereat she dropped the hose and ran into the house to alarm the boss. "I thought so," howled old Budd; "she did it, and I got the first squirt directly in my ear-trumpet. I always knew the Irish would ruin this country. Where is she? Let me at hT!" He was on the point of battening down the bolted dof when his son appeared and demanded an explanation. His father attempted to tell him all about it; how that ras- cally Irish girl had been squirting water into and over him, but the whole story was cut short by a neighbor who was looking out of his window and saw the whole affair, but who had been laughing so ever since that he could not speak. Old Budd would not accept such an explanation, and because his son Timothy and daughter Melinda joined with that neigh- bor in laughing over the affair, he got his coat collar up, pro- ceeded to tie up his blue cotton umbrella, pack up his valise and start for up home, where more respect was shown aged persons. About this time Mrs. Budd becam6 'disgusted with things at home, especially the thermometer, that carried on so high, and she resolved to spend the remainder of the season at Newport.. Budd didn't like the idea. She was too good looking a woman, he said, to go off and leave her husband at home alone and run all the risks of watering-place flirtations, but she was determined to go. Then he tried to show her the duty which devolved upon the wife of a Granger, but-she only laughed, and said he was a dear, jealous old noodle. Well, the upshot was, she up and went. And Budd began to wilt, and to lose all interest in his farm. Of    FARMNG FOR FUN.         53 "I1 MRS. BUDD INSISTS UIPON GOING TO NEWPORT FOR THE REMAIN- DER OF THE SEASON, GREATLY TO HER HUSBAND'S DISGUST, AND HE PROCEEDS TO LECTURE HER ON THE DUTIES WHCH BELONG TO THE WIFE OF A GRANGER. IT IS NOT A SUCCESS. Before she had been gone a week he had written her three let. ters, and wept salt tears all over his farm. He began to stay out late nights and to attend places of amusement. He also drank somewhat heavily, for he was de- termined to show Melinda that she was driving him to ruin by her heartless conduct.   '54    -FARMNO }OR FUN. But Biddy wasn't being driven to ruin any. She didn't shed any tears of regret at the absence of both master and mistress. On the contrary, she used to get up little parties by inviting her friends and "cousins," and giving them handsome little suppers. In the meantime Budd put up a job on the tender suscepti- bilities of his wife, by employing a mutual friend to go to New. port and tell her that he was fast going to the bad; that unless she returned at once it would be too late, and he would be ir- redeemably lost to her and her friends. It had the desired eiect. The friend telegraphed to him from Newport that she was coming home by rail that night, and, to carry out his part of the programme, he went off and got as drunk as a boiled owl, returning home at about ten o'clock, the hour she would probably arrive. It was one of Biddy's reception nights, it so happened, and, not expecting him home before past midnight, she had lighted up the parlors, and her friends were having a lively contra dance, at the suggestive music of the piano which one of the 'company could play after a fashion, and things looked lively when the master of the house staggered in. He was just in the right mood for such a scene as met his eyes, and the party were in the right mood to accept him on any terms. So he gave a wild imitation Irish whoop, seized Biddy from her partner, and began a regular breakdown with her This pleased all hands, and all feet were soon engaged in the same business. If that carpet was never dusted before it got it   FARMNG FOR FUN.   x      55 then. Wilder and wilder grew the sport, louder and louder grew the shouts, until the whole neighborhood was aroused, and had its heads out of the windows to learn what the matter was. At this festive juncture Mrs. Budd opened the front door and came upon the scene. The strapping youth from whom Budd had taken Biddy, not knowing Mrs. Budd and thinking her another one of the " party," seized her with a yell of delight and attempted to drag her into the dance. She thrust the point of her parasol into his ear and screamed. Then there was gathering in hot haste. Yes, but the gather ing was gathering to get out of that, as may well be imagined, Poor Budd! What pen shall describe his looks and feelings? He had overdone the matter, and he felt so foolish that he went out at the back door and butted his head against a post. Mrs. Budd, after screaming, proceeded to faint, and then she raved-and went into the kitchen to find the potato-masher. Budd suspected that she didn't want to mash potatoes with it at that time of night, so he went out at the back gate and passed the remainder of the night at a hotel. Budd returned to his castle by degrees during the next three days. He thought it not prudent to do so all at once. When he finally reached his home he found a new and plainer looking servant girl, and his wife with a wet towel around her head and fire in her eye. Bud. looked around for the potato-masher, but not seeing it he ventured to speak to her. She turned and frowned upon him, and he went out right away to see how his garden was getting along. }    56         FARMNG FOR Ft N. It took a full week for Budd to get on speaking term? again with his wife, and still another week to get a fair chance for an explanation. But it was a season of penance which did them both good, and they felt all the better after it. Time heals all wounds. The farm began to bloom again. or rather to look as though there was somebody at home, and Budd looked earnestly to see what the signs of promise were. These signs weren't very plentiful, and he looked blue. And he felt as a chap does who goes fishing and don't get any- thing, and at the same time wants to carry something home. So he resolved to fool his wife by buying enough at the grocery store to make a respectable crop of the different varieties. One day a tramp came to the house and asked for him. Budd dawned upon him with curiosity. "I understand you are a Granger," said the tramp. "Yes; why?" "I am also a Granger." "Oh, you are, eh? Well, what do you want?" "I came to see if I couldn't let myself to you for the purpose of doing your harvesting." Budd looked at the man a moment in surprise. Would you like to see my farm?" "Certainly."       r "Come right this way," replied Budd, pleading the way from the basement door to the rear piazza. "There, that is my farm; does it occur to you that I need anybody to assist me in gather- ing my crops." "Is that all?"   FARMNG FOR FUN.    -7 THE TRAMP WHO WTSHED TO HRE HMSELF OUT TO GRAIGER BUDD, TO GATUlR HS CROPS. "That is all." The tramp looked up to his brother Granger -with a tear in each eye, and held out his hand. J "Good-bye, my friend; I think some wretch has been trifling with my needs. I was told that you were a Granger and had crops to get in. Alas!" "My dear sir, I suspect that you could eat all that-I have to. gather on this farm of mine. Here, take this and go and buy a square meal."   58         FARBMNG FOR FUN. Shaking hands with his brother Granger, he escorted him from the house.  Time went on and Autumn came. It was now time for the earth to yield her fruit. Budd took a hoe and called on his piece of earth to ante up, but it didn't, in the shape of potatoes, to any great extent. He found one or two, however, about the size of walnuts3 and, resolving to astonish Melinda and make her ashamed of her flower-beds, he stole out of the side gate and went to the grocery store where he bought a peck of fine looking potatoes, and transferred them slyly to the spot where he had been vainly digging. The success of his strategy was almost complete when Me- linda, who had been watching him through the blinds, threw them open and began to laugh at him. This was a sad blow, and made Budd feel as though he had been unexpectedly cut off in the will of some rich relation. "Don't try to-fool me, Timothy," she said, again laughing at her husband's discomfiture. Budd bowed his head and pretended his ears were not good. Day after day, as the different products came to a full stop and looked as though they wanted to be taken in, did Timothy Budd gather the fruits of his labors, and as fast as he gathered them his wife would pin them up against the wall. On a bit of paper beneath the two little nubbins which he had dug out of the ground she wrote, "These are Potatoes," and "This is Corn;" "Budd's Beets;" "Tim's Beans;" "'Granger Turnips," &c. &c. It provoked the poor Granger dreadfully to have her make so much fun of his raisings, but by and by he began to figure up the cost and to comprehend the fact that each and every article which he had raised had cost him at least twenty-five   FARMNG FOR FUN.         59 ' .i.     rr  uP^m\T KS  0^ NW&?lS dollars. At all events, twenty-five cents would have purchased more than he had raised. Of course, she laughed at him. Where is the loving wife who whuld not have done so a She knew that it would do him good to ridicule him and she kept it up like a heroine. Finally Budd solaced himself with the fact that he had had lots of fun with his farming, and on that score resolved to cry quits, sell his tools, allow his wife to have the whole for a flower garden next year, and let the Grangers quietly to go to --to keep right on in their good work. And this is what we call FARMNG FOR FUN, PA}Y    **-  t      .- r ; {I   OUR FIRST BABY; The Infelicities of Our Honeymoon. BRICKTOP SERIES. ILLUSTRATIONS BY HOPKINS. This book is full of wit and humor. It presents vividly the first attempts of a YO UJG TUSBAJD AT HOUSEKEEPING. ouzn, parties contemplatine mrarriac e ouz ht to reada this book, and jzost take a peep into the mysteries and mis- eries as well as the raRtu$res of the early days of wedlook. PRICE TEN CENTS. Publisher, NO. 57 BEEKMAN ST.,        NEW YORK,.   OTHEB-IN LAW. -:    THE AUTHOR OF "OUR FIRST BABY," ETC ILLUSTRATED BY HOPKINIS. This is one of the most humorous stories of the day. Every man and "woman in the country should read this serio comic experience of a man with his mother-in-law, who made home torrid for him, and how he suo- oeeded, after many attempts and failures, in geting rid of her. BUY IT!               STUDY IT 1 "ET YOUR WIFE READ IT! AND, FiNALLY, GIVE  IT  TO  YOUR   MOTHER-IN-LAW. 100 pages, printed on fine paper, with embellished cover, 8vo. Price 10 cents. PUBLISHED BY NO. 57 BEEKMAN ST.,            NEW YORK.   BRIC KTOP'S $oUss,     ECITATINS AND HARLoR         RAMAS. ILLUSTRATED. This song book is without doubt the best of all songsters. It contains nearly one hundred new songs, written especially for this book, together with several first-rate acting PARLOR DRAMAS, Banjo acts, dialogue songs, single aots, character and dialect songs, from many of the favorite singers and actors on the stage; also RECITATIONS, New and sparkling conundrums, and end-men hits, etc., etc. It is new from beginning to end, and even to a person who can not sing it presents a fund of amusement not often found in a variety theatre. ,4sk your newsdealerfor it. 128 pages. Price, 15 cents. Or will be sent postpaid by the publisher on receipt of price. Address 33. .EEKEW YORKm C:                , NO. 57 BEEKMAN ST.,                 NEW YORK.   FRED DOUGLAS / COMPANION TO "PARSON BEECHER AND HS HORSE." A TALE OF THE WAR. ILLUSTRATIONS BY HOPKINS. lTh story of 'Fred Douglas and His Mzue" is replete with mirth-provoking reminiscences of the recent little misunderstanding. READ IT AND LAUCH. As a story of the National Parade it deals with people who "were there," and will be doubly popular with the "Vets," many of whom enjoyed the very fun that is here depicted. Large 12mo. 96 pages. Price 10 cents.  :, o     1-. I  z:Ir, iE   Publisher, NO. 57 BEEKMAN ST.,         NEW YORK,    
         
       
   
