
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Barnaby, the Sandhiller, or, the Planter's Ruse .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7608
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Barnaby, the sandhiller, or, the planter's ruse 
            
               It

the Uz  ,u0Ii8.;
on*

THE PLANTER'S RUSE..

,5
f
7
,
t                                                  3f
;
4                                                     i  1
'j}"tj
iS°
'      1
t                                                      ,
-
e
!'

; /"

BY DR. J. H. ROBINSOW.

. i
t" .  a                              1
-     =va
' i  .A
s
f
f

FREDERIC A. B RADY PUBLISHER
22 AN N STREET,
NEW YORK.

1

i
i
i      E
t
s
,;
{i    i
f
i      f
i
F     a
;!
;4
f
'
'      i
i      !

f
n

,    f
f     't'  {
'
}     1,
;
i,

-                      i
,

y         Sry     '               X hn
"     Y      11  W      h    1 ((
Ly+'                                 y_.
y


AAY 14 1917

BARNABY, THE SAN DRILLER:
OR,
tSt Want's t

Emun according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862,
D CAULDWEL, &amp; WHITNEY,
la the Clark's Ofo, of the District Court for the Southern Distriot of New Tak

.7"

Cl&amp;ATER I.
ox n.Or' Iwo.
while the Federalgunboats were slowly push-
ng through the dark passes of the YazcQ, in a
brave attempt to reach the rear of Vicksburg,
a young man called Felix Westerly, who had
obtained  remission to accompany the expedi-
tion, wandered too far from the protecting guns
of the flotilla, and was'taken prisoner by sone
Confederate soldiers.  Iasmed ately after his
capture there was some discussion in regard to
the treatment he should receive ; but le was
flually marched off to plantation a short dis-
tainee front the river, where, aftet being ironed,
lie was thrust into a negro-cabin, and a guard
placed over him. He had hoped for a rescue ;
but the guns of the little  eet shelling the
goodss growing less and less distinct, assured
him that his friends were gradually receding,
leaving him to captivity and its consequences.
He felt indeed deserted when the Federal thun-
ders ceased to be heard, and the most gloomy
forebodings crowded upon him. He had every
reason to fear the worst, for he had fallen into
the hands of a notorious guerrilla chief; which
fact, however, he did not fully understand at
that time.
'the night came on, but l elix Westerly could
not-sleep. He turned restlessly on his bed of
straw, and it was many hours before he lost the
consciousness ofhis situation. At midnight he'
was awakened by the touch of steel; a soldier
was pricking him with his bayonet.
Westerly arose as quickly as he couldgali
seeing armed men at the door, thought hi jn$b
hour had come.
"«Murry him along,!" said an off'eer. " There
is, no time to lose. Never mind his handcuffs;
let him wear them; they won't hinder him from
walking."
"What is your rank, Sir t' asked Westerly,
drcressing the petson who had spoken.

"I hold the rank of Captain in the Confea
erate service," he answered, readily.
*I suspect for what purpose youhave called
me," continued Westerly, moving slowly for-
ward. "You must be aware, Sir, that a man
wishes to make some preparation before taking
a long journey. I trust I shall be allowed a few
moments to say a few words. not only to my
fellow-man, but to One infinitely higher."
" Sergeant of the guard, take charge of the
prisoner. Men, fall in. Right face I March I"
Then to Westerly: " It is too late to mend a bad
life, and too late to begin anew one. Five min-
utes will scarcely suffice to change the mind of
your judge. However, you shall not have cause
to complain. Move on, Sergeant, according
to orders."
"It don't matter,"returned Westerly, pans-
ing an instant. " I am no better than my coun,
trymen who have fallen in this war ; but I may
not die so well. If a fair woman should ever
come this way, inquiring for her son, be kind
enough to inform her.that Felix Westerly was
murdered; will you Y"
The young man was pushed forward rougbly
by the soldiers, and the Rebel Captain did not
reply. Westerly expected to, march but a few
rods, but evidently three good miles were pass.
ed over before the Sergeant halted his men.
The young man saw before him the most pre
tentious mansion he had seen in the region of
the Yazoo. The plantation on which it stood
was picturesque and beautiful. The soft moon-
light, falling on the tropical scenery, bathed it
in a silver radiance.
Looking off to his right, he beheld a village
of negro buts. . The "institution" had mani-
festly flourished there in all its dark power and,
glory. The happy owner of this Eden had-laid
up for himself treasures on earth. A lazy, lux-
urious air pervaded thespot.
A few paces from the ,mansion was a buikting
that might pass either for a ebapel or a prison,

rTTt'
I;     tti
r(   f
F        a
.j
ry    r
't    iaf .ff
#t    iIw
E    f  4
lit
Ji ICY .

I

A - is   ss

. ,

--
. r         yt
l


BARNABY, THE S&amp;NDIIILLER..

4          .       BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

so far as outward signs went. Into this anom-
alous place Westerly was marched. He had
asked no'questions, and asked none now. Some
massive doors were thrown open, and wonder-
ing what next would happen, he passed'along a
dimly-lighted ball, and soon found himself in a
small and gloomy apartment, lighted by a sin-
gle lamp placed in a niche at one side.
The soldiers, at a sign from the Sergeant,
filed to the right and left and passed out, leav-
ing Westerly standing alone in the centre of
the room. He looked thisway and that, in
some expectation of seeing other captives.; but
soon perceiving that he was the only occupant
of the apartment, knew not what opinion to
form. He turned in time to see the last knap-
sack of his retisiig escort, and the closing of
the stout door.
If this is a prison," thought Westerly, "it
is a very curious one."
The ceiling was lofty, like that of a chapel,
and there were two long, narrow windows, with
iron shutters. Seeing a seat, and being much
fatigued, he sat down to wait further develop-
ments, and to shape his fancies, if possible, into
something tangible. The irons were yet on his
wrists, which were chafed and swollen. Feeling
himself powerless, he tried to exercise the vir-
tue of patience, and bear his mistrortunes man-
fully.
Some minutes passed silently. It occurred to
him that perhaps this time had been allowed
him for a brief preparation for the last scene in
human life. While this conjecture was disturb-
ing him, a side-door was opened, and a man
advanced into the middle of the room, and af-
ter looking at Westerly a nkoment, walked to
the niche, took the lamp from it, and again ap-
proached Westerly, who eyed this unexpected
visitor suspiciously. He was a middle-aged
person, with a stooping figure, thin face, piere-
ing eyes, and gray hair. He was of low stature,
and plainly'dressed. His mouth indicated great
firmness and decision of character.
He examined Westerly closely.  When he
had completed this mute survey, he returned
the lamp to the niche, rang a bell, and sat
down. In answer to the summons, the door
was opened, and the Sergeant looked in.
" Take off his handcuffs," said the man.
Without reply, the Sergeant relieved Wester-
ly of the irons, and retired.
" What is your name, young Sir?" asked the
person who rang the bell,
Westerly answered the question promptly.
"You are a Federal?"
"I am proud to say that I am,"replied West-
His gray-bearded interlocutor frowned.
" In what capacity did you accompany the
gunboats in this Yankee experiment I"
"Merely as a looker-on."
' You wear 'the Federal color, I observe ?"

" The national blue," said Westerly, hisbloodi
suddenly warming--" the national blue foray
ever l"
" Many wear it to, our malarious swaps,
who never wear it avfay again."
"Brave men sleep well in swamps., Wher-
ever they lie their names will be cherished, an-
swered Westerly, with spirit.
" What is your rank in the besieging army ?"
The man looked at him 'keenly. Westerly
hesitated a moment, then replied :
"I 'lave no particular rank. I am an agent."
"Wat kind of an agent ?" persisted his
questioner, brusquely. "This is mere evasion.
Let me tell you that you are waited for outside.
This is, very possibly, your last conversation.
I mean to say that you are in great danger."
" I am aware of that," said Westerly, seri-
ously.
" A spy is an agent," observed the other. You
are probably one of those secret Government
agents whom nobody understands, and by whom
many suffer. However, we will not dwell upon
that.  It will make little difference to you
whether you are shot as a spy or as an agent.*"
"Very little," answered the prisoner, impres-
sively. "If I am to be murdered, one preteist
will do as well as another for the crime. I ain
a prisoner of war, and demand to be treated as
such. If you have any influence, it is your
duty to use it in my favor ; your duty as a
Christian and a man. You have asked me sew-
eral questions, which I have answered. Now,,
the one great question that' interests me is the
question of life and death. All others look
small to me. I confess that I wish to live, and
that death is grim  and unwelcome. I am
full of life and health, and my business seems
to be in this world rather than in the other."
"Very true," responded his inquisitor, " ands
you shall settle that question yourself."
" It is, soon settled, then," returned Felix,
quickly, and with a faint smile.
" We shall see, Sir," retorted the man, frigid-
ly. "Give me your whole attention."
He arose, and approached Westerly, and the'
power of his gray eyes for the first time be-
came manifest to him. He showed a stony
face, traversed by hard intersecting lines.
" One thing is certain," he continued, "with-
out my aid, you will be shot at daylight, which-
is close at hand, in retaliation. for several sum-
mary executions by the Federals. You were
taken by a band of men called guerrillas, whose
ranks have recently been -thinned by Yankee
rifles and halters. Their warfare being some-
what irregular, the .fact has been seized upon
by our enemies, and the few prisoners they
have captured have been treated to short shrifts
and sure cords. There is a balance of hangin
and shooting against us, and you will help pay
it, provided you reject the' proposition I am
about to make. I state the matter clearly, its

order that you may see that but two things are
before you." .
"If am in the hands of the swamp bandit-
ti, I know very well what to expect 1" exclaimed
Westerly, in a.desponding tone.
"I am   glad to hear you say so. Listen.
One startling thing that is before you, you al-
ready know: it is death. The other is, mar-
rage.."
Felix Westerly sprang from his chair. His
blood rushed to. his face ; his mouth opened ;
his nostrils dilated. The seriousness with which
the gray-bearded man spoke left no room to
doubt his sincerity. In some manner, every
word. he uttered carried conviction with it. He
was absolutely a person not given to jesting.
He was one born to authority, and to whomeon-
tradietion was indignity.
"Marriage !" repeated Westerly, confounded.
" Marriage !" reiterated the other, in a steady,
unswerving voice. " Choose quickly."
"Really, I am not prepared," stammered Fe-
li. "Marriage requires courtship, and all that
sort of thing."
"Reflect a minute or two."
The wan took out his watch and looked at the
dial.
" Are you seriously in earnest ?" asked West-
erly.
"I have been in earnest all my life, and
never more so than to-night," was the instant
reply.
"Will you tell me your name ?" gasped Fe-
lir. -
"Names are of small consequence to you.
My name is Borrowscale. I am a cotton-plant-
er. - The young lady.now offered to you for a,
wife has no striking personal defects. She isi
thought fair by many, and some. persons have
called her- handsome.  She is just eighteen.C
What do you say ?"
Felix sat down, quite overpowered.
" Give me eight or ten days -to think of it,"
he said, rather at random.
" Searcely as many minutes !" answered Bor-
rowscale, abruptly.
"Sir, this is very sudden, and, I must say,
very singular," faltered Felix. "It is awkwardly
unfortunate that I made up my mind, years go, 
to leave women and marriage altogether out of
my life. The truth is, that I have an unac- s
countable antipathy to the sex. Propose some- e
thing else;'I beg."                         s
if Very well, Sir! I'll ring for the Sergeant," ft
said Borrowscale, sternly.                  ti
" Not yet! notyet l! entreated Felix. "Who f
Is this person whom you wish me to marry ?"
"My    daughter,"  answered  Borrowseale, o
grimly.                                     u
" Your daughter I" echoed Westerly, me-
ahanically.                                w
Borrowseale bowed stiffly. .              a
" Was her mother-"r

" You are not to marry the mother, but the
daughter," interposed Borrowscale. " What
matters the condition of the mother, if the
daughter be fair and rich,? You Northerners
are humanitarians and philosophers."
Fe spoke sneeringly, and,his eyes glittered.
Westerly's heart misgave him.
".I--I am already married,". he stammered,
resorting to a lie.
" Then it only remains for you 'to be shot I"
said Borrowecale, frowning, and ringing the
bell.
The Sergeant appeared.
" Sergeant, this young man is ready to go'
with you. Let me hear the report of your guns
very soon."
"Send   him  back !"  exclaimed  Westerly,
yielding to the. terrors of the moment. " Die-
miss those assassins.. I accept your terms."
" Go !" said Borrowseale, with a scornful curl
of the lips.
The Sergeant went out,as automatically as he
had come in.
"You will marry the girl that I shall bring
to you ?"
."I will! But how am Ito be assured that it
will profit me ? .I may be taken out and treach-
erously murdered immediately after the cere-
mony," said Felix, not satisfied.
" Very properly thought of. I promise you
safety, and you must take my word for it.
Your position is such that you cannot afford to
be exacting. You have reason to congratulate
yourself on your good fortune."
"Shall I be set at liberty ?"
"Ask no more, unless.you wish the company
of the Sergeant," replied Borrowscale, mean-
ingly.
".I am yours," said Westerly, " and you can
do.as you please. When is the thing to be ?"
" Immediately."
Borrowseale rapped at the side-door. A
negro opened it.
"Go and tell her to come," said Borrowseale.
The black 'went away, but soon thrust his
head into the apartment, and said:
"She won't, Mars'r."
"Remain here," said the planter to Westerly.
Your bride is not quite ready."
Felix was left alone again. Thigiehad taken
uch a.- singular turn, that he now felt more
curiosity than fear. He began to realize the
trangeness of the adventure. Although he
elt unprepared for matrimony, he concluded
hat it was better tlan the startling alternative.
or which he was equally unprepared.
'- Death, however," he muttered, "is soon
ver; but marriage is a lingering fate, full of
iitold perplexities."
He was alone- fifteen Minutes, communing
'ith his fancies, and trying to quiet his nervous
citation. At the expiration of that time, Bor.
owscale returned, followed by three persons

'
''i :;
.
{      ir  ;
ii      i  ,,'
.s   +,ti'
' ,   j#
it I
{
t+    ,' .F
'  ',,,
" ;
i, , ;
' f         :
,y
.    ;
!       I }4
i        i, lL

t  4t,
1
{    t    "
f ,
}'        t
v -,r
r
1,
'4 }
t
ti
Si 1 l"
f jf  if
l           "S
i
+1
j) I +
t 1f
'l           .1


8                          BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.
One was a ta.i, sun-browred, rough-looking I fCongratulate ye I" said the brown overseer,
man, with coarse, sandy hair, crooked nose, full with an awkward bow.
lIps, tobacco-stained teeth, and a shambling  The red-faced woman smirked and courtesied,
geit. He had large hands with yellow backs, 'then hastened to support the bride and lead heir-
and feet.suggestive of flat-boats. This person away, who came in and went put without speak.
had-the air,,f an overseer, and an overseer lie ing a word, or app rently seeing Felix. The
was ; as Felix presently learned.          person who had pronounced the ritual and the-
-The=other two were females, one of them so overseer disappeared at. the other door, and
losely vailed that it was impossible to see a Felix Westerly was again with Borrowscale.
feature otf her face. The'other was a red-faeed -'.
stout woman, with small eyes and overshot                CHAPTER    1.
brows. She was not handsome ; to Felix she                WHAT NEXT.
was absolutely repulsive. He was alarmed in  It was now morning. The dawn was beginning
~moment, and drew back as she approached, to blush in the east.
as he thought, to take his hand. He lf in-   SWell, Sir," said Westerly. "This thing is.
voluntarily made a gesture to Borrowscale to over. What next ?"
recall the Sergeant. -"What do you expect ?" Borrowseale asked.'
-The grim planter shrugged his shoulders, and  "Safe escort to the Federal gunboats re.
ooked toward the failed figure, to which Felix plied Westerly.
instantly cave all his attention.  The woman  +4 Was that named in the compact?" queried.
about to become his wife could not but assume Borrowscale, coldly, his eyes fixed moodily up-
deoe interest In his eyes.,                on the floor.
She was of medium height, but he could form  " It was not particularly !mentioned, but .ou
no opinion of her age or shape, so completely promised me safety ; and where can I find it,.
was she hidden by cloak and vail. She' might save under the National Flag ?" answered Felix.
have been Sixteen or forty, for aught he could  "A  person may be safe," sneered Borrow.
judge, black or white, fair or ugly. Her head scale, "and yet be the inmate of a prison."
was somewhat bowed, and her steps hesitating  "Is it thus that you keep faith "cried Felix,
and reluctant. Her companion led her forward, apprehensively.
And Westerly and his impromptu bride stood   "Did you stipulate for freedom, young
side by side. He observed that she did not man ?' continued Borrowscale, giving him ,
once raise her face, or look toward him. He piercing look.
inferred that the proceedings were repugnant to  u6 The word 'freedom' might not have been
her, and that probably she was as much a vie- used," faltered Felix; " but it was at least a
tim as hipiself.                          inference."
The person who was to officiate, entered, and  "Before you saw me, Sir, there was but one
advancing quickly, joined their hands. As her certainty before you, and that was Death. I
band was placed in his, he felt her shiver. He placed another word beside it, and that word
made but one discovery while he held her was Marriage. The latter was to be the mere
gloved fingers, which was that her hand was purchase of ife. No stipulations were made
childishly small.                          for a single item beyond that. If I east you
The ofcial began the ceremony impressively. into the filthiest slave-pen, I do not violate the
Westerly was singularly flurried. le would conditions of the bargain. If I thrust you into.
have displayed more nerve in the hands of the the cells of punishment beneath this floor, and
Sergeant, with the threatening muzzles at keep you upon bread and water, the letter of*
twenty paces. He was really quite stupified. our compact remains intact; for whom can be
He heard his own name pronounced ; and safer than a man in a dungeon, and whom can
another name, which sounded like Anna or be more alive than he who feels leis life a con-
Diana, ending with Borrowscale. There was a 'stant burden'?"'
second name; but thirty seconds after itrwas pro.  A new fear took possession of Westerly. He
nounced he could not recall even the sound of examined, with increasing interest, the features'
it. It appeared to him that the formula was of Borrowscale. He wondered that the hard-
purposely hurried over; but the truth was, ness and severity of his expression bad not be-.
that he had lost his self-possession, and was fore attracted his notice. His forehead showed'
staring dreamily at the muffled woman whose the shape of the bony structure beneath so
Band lie was holding. The ceremony was com- plainly, that it reminded him of the white skulls'
plated before he had collected his scattered he had seen in anatomical museums. The faeea
sens's. To Felix, marriage was no trifling mat- fell off to a pointed chin, which made it look
ter under any circumstances, and could not, by like a wedge. Eyes and mouth indicated fire
any possibility, be made a thing of light conse- and energy, will and ambition. His ose de-
quence.                                    noted him a bird of prey ; it was not unlike tin
"I congratulate you, Sir 1" said Borrowseale, bill of a cormorant.. His lips were suggestive of
with an equivocal smile.                   pride, cunning, and rapacity.

B AINAB'Y, THE IA1'D HLEII. B1

In the gray light of morning, Felix nade
"inudlolk gtle," said lionowseae, yiag
ihn aslanie
,ag, and the ungainly o    eerest 'aciheed
th balt--'
'Is it you, Absalomf? Let mie ihtrodueegou
to    "ouidii- av Ar. 'Feli' Westerly,  a istor
ci g 'tsand $n   q e
Abraham Lincein. 'on-in-I-aw, know AbsnthIi@
Will1 my agent, and the friend of the centered
Absalom Wills bent 'his tall,' ungraceful
bod; a compliment which Felix returned wtlj
esae ln  and impassireess.  1e entrtalmcd a
dislike'for'tiis pelnson. =  M  s'n is
bMoli, order sodme''branty.     sons
faint. An epey stonadli will do tob ebot on,
it one iut ii"be      erre   oa  ny e ay
stomach. L~et Old But attend pa."
Al aataom 'Wils was away in a momen, b
e I~x tearely notice  lis absence. fe we
thii  serus'y' and  atherin 'etth   e
forces Of his' mind. 'As he sat, gaitli his fre
head in his hand, and his elbow resting'uppn a
tile,? Ei'rdwseale covertig watched him ' The
odleeer ame'back followed'by a white-headed
negro, bearing a trag. A bottl and ' gles
were placed b fore Felix.
'Thfrandy," said Abadlom 'Will5  briefly..
Felix asked no questions. He poured tly
lass half-full, and after holding it up 'to the
ight and exnelling Its-fiavordrank it haily.
nothing had passed his lips'for several liou, ,
and he 'felt the need of a stimulant.
"You needn't quau .ion 'that brandy," said
Absalom, "for the  -urnel imported it lisslf;
and it's been in the sullar teen' ear by the
alm'niek, which kent lie. It tricldee down 'ii-,
ter the stomick jist like ile ; and I b'lieve wouldd
burn in a lamp. But'twoulidkilla nigger, dead
sartln !"
The concluding affirmation was made for the
benefit of the white-headed'negro, who anti g ae
butler i' Borrowsoale's establishment, had ac-
cese to the wine-vaults, and might be supposed
to have occasional hankerings for the good
thing of his betters.
Borrowscale sat mutely observing Westerly,
on w' ose exhausted system his 1ibea libation
had' little effect.,Ias turned as iek i ore of
the ansber liquid into his empty glass, an eswal-
lowed it as if it were water. In those days ef
ruiibus prices, those ruddy drops were like
glot ales of gold.  Absi lom  Wille, who had'
stretched his long legs under the table, begin n
to fidget. It grieved him sorely to see the pre-
cioe vintage traveling that road ip s h quan
fadies.
Felix pushed away the bottle, asnd .a genial
earth began to difupe from his stomach alog
his disordered nerve.h Calmne  ad coire
were 'returning. HeI thought "he could now en-

counter 'rowea 'eyes lthout      1in
but tie nmqnent rhe turned And eqnfriu$dla
-tie eonfessekdnerrous j e i 1t t1.
" I purehasedmy life," he ld, "ii'th  usa-
her'yoti dietted. XYr 8'iiy  question
'"At k mr a  ge;  eoined  Bu ig  soe
lag 1i ilibiuders, "'we eipettdtihe briddl
ber and the hone ymoon.  You will $ee ;r
ta aid y'ou*ii b *ny guest."
i fgse to yOe-her; and as for bon o
V11lnohie af"it '" ae lainied Pefix. ''liavy 4
tus fai', bdbauas it was' a "natter of i
death; bit'I hiv reached thie limit of  suie-
in. All 'that 'a thaa hat iill he give f&amp;
'2o$80 have yu. You have only od1
and 'h ld aYd' hand a 'fe mo4neni.
auto atoh coqd hav edone hit, e   n-m1a4
that is pof marriage. 'it Is itera  "IS. L
sietlking'tor'beiin'a eanwinstead otiboy.
sinut receive.-you must love your ifs."
There is them as dean  their- o       *lu
said-Absalom Wilts. "'i ff  's'iltfed "'ribsets.
is aIt w  ed, I'd trampleon a stra
se aceagieaches. 'hetns eb'
A   isam~otethetable with ' i'b
haed, and lifted his eeanbarry eyes headn $
in a sentiimental endevr r to expris l  ha
fel'it impossible to exiiress.
he Tiegro'called "4 Olet",standin b
fBor'oweale,looked at Feli'ih'the
interest.
" Whit I reuire of you," continued fh plte
"r, is to con sa this es osal,. and , oi t
every efort to 'in the affectionls'of youir'I;
t 0 this, and nothing stand 'in 'the way 'ot
ha piness. "
~otrowsealefrowned, and his epreio4 b.
came severe.
"'This 'is vague, mysterious, unsatisfaeto 'I"
retorted Westerly,.  "The valued wngaa was
herselfiunwilling, I believe, 'to act het p5t.  1
felt her handi shivering in mine.  She e4m  to
me with a shudder-she left me with a shnldeg.
Borrokseale contracted bis'b'ows ifii'ae
was drawn tightly over the bon$ for iead.
" You are an obstinate fool !" he 'tt
"You are treading on diamonds, and aM
time iasking fr riches. While you feign to
ish with tbkrst, a rydtal fountain sparkie b
you.   I have lost  atieie !   oh st
brought to reason. You must bend o brws:
Absalom, pour me some brandy.'"
A sooty band and arm passed quietly oi
the planter's shoulder, grasped the boitl e, and
tilted it over the waiting glass. The planter
drank.       M
"Will yeu, Ma {r?" asked Old But, 4eferpa.
all,, oiat bei;.
lx nod eand was   mpressid by the
spec uln manner of-thn e b i t bad airei 4
abe conntenaad&amp;     '    .   ,,

,y;   !
r          ,'  t
i'          }
i      ,   '
M      1;
' ,
,     c
_   ,s
,i  s  x.
f!     ' .'    ti
1         i
y     4f    ;'
,
s          fi y,  c
i,      { 't  i
_i
t         t .
'           1   j
'          '   t
''           i
I'c'y
tsN
7 i9
i      s      fyl}'


8                           BARNABY, THE SANDILILLER.
"Was her mot er your, wife ?" asked Feli , muskets were leaned against the wall, in a row.                                     -
tr ng to the planter.                      As the'vodng man passed on, he thoughtof the
 You are'impeptigspo $ir!" :gttere ,3- fatal office whieb those men might haverbeen
r  ewssalg !pale.wthaneuss  alcalled on to perform, and that reflection some-                                                   ---
pet's pso !" winesed Abshlom Wills,,withi wha$ softened. lis feelings. Traversing a long                                                                -     -
*protes ng 'mtion o Is'yellow hand,.       corridor or covered way, they'entered the plant-
was hergother' slaye?" paked Felixdes- gr'q piansion.;_______=_=
perately, resolve ,to clear ap the'na  beyorg Wd eterly' used his eyes .sg much as possible,                         ---_-      -
d: m nakingeveryohservation that he, conjectured
o'motttr hat hardlcber as. You hag     i    te of possible advantage to him after-                                 -~_~-~~
but to see hp  daughter,"retor ed th'e: ter  ward.     ce-t-d-
ha u ti y. 'You Yankes arje more fasti ious  TIEhe slave called Old But'followed at his
than'we. While you weep over the negro, you heels. Every time.he looked over his shoulder,
1iAt im. The Enancipatipriists, ;avedegeat  he. vas stuck with the expression of this white=
n       What is one diarki rop, f icod' ina haired   bohdman. 'Ne turned more .than onpe
roman  'Does not the write blood purge itof f o'observ6 lim.' The humility of Old"gut was
usejeanness"..                              mingled with dignity, if, theword be admissible
"ood as a sarimint'!" murmured2Absalem, whon applhe4 to property.
ewiqothing isred locks.  "Them New E g-    Westerly followed his guide abstractedly, now
laiddes be veryhard on tlciiig. I'velHearn they thinking of what, had happened within the last
wo6t'ow,'emto set in' the pewsith 'em in  our,.and now wondering what. was .to come.
est el.", ,  ;                              He mounted carpeted stairs and crossed 'spa-
,ehx looked oontemptuoi0yat Absalei'4rd a ions halls till he was bewildered, and would
#iiuerdto address his conversation to Bor- have beehqunable, with all his purposed shrewd-
ronwaiale.                                  ness, to retrace his steps.
"  unde-stand   sdh. sdinot adelivte n   IIwas ushered, at length, into a handsomec
decption, tacitly, at lesst. I do not believe in  apartment. Old Sut bowed him in respectfully,
tbe'admixture'of the races."                went baekwaird out of the room, and Absalom
Scare no., what you .believe," replied'Bor- Wills closed the door and lockedit.               -O
rowsoale, "so long as ..you adhere to the  spirit  "A  husband and a prisoner !" said Felix,    a
of our compact.  I have admitted nothing. .In- trying to be likely. "Distinction enough for
ter what you will.  You are my daiter's one day. "
husis and, and as suceh I have elairis'upou "you. With these words, he dropped into a large
Absalom, conduct my son-in-law to his wife "  easy chair, and 'overpowered with fatigue and
yery well," said  ex, dgedly.   "ou tiis"eractioni of'his exti-aordinarg excitement,
an conduet me where6you, please. .ee what was soonfast asleep.p
uati4faetio'n you'll get. You had better turn am'  He slept an hour, and awoke ina state of
adrift."                                    doubt respecting recent events. lIe' was serious.-/
"Take him away !" added Borrowecale,"per- ly inclined to believe that he 'had been dream-
eiptorily.                                 ing, 7id 'looked around with some ex citation
I you want a skeleton in yourcupbed* of     i finding'hinself on board a gunboat.  Ii' saw,
eried Felix, "you -can have it."            instead of munitions of war, a tastefully furnish-
' Take 'him away, Absaloni !" reiterated the ed room, and the sun shining against the panes-
plsnter.                               ,    of a richly-draped window.. He arose to e-
"aFifty kegs of gunpowder would be a'ea'er amind his new' quarters, with a conviction that
investment 1" retorted Felix, with an attempt at he had not been deluded. by the vagaries of
i' biaastiolaugh.                           sleep. There was verily such a person as Bor-
QId' Sgt looked from one to another, agape rowscale, Abialom  Wills, and  a mysterious
w*th wonder.                           -    female.                                                                       -
"Away, Absalom !" said the planter, me-     He observed an open door. He approached.--
sniplgaly." "t ltwjll cost you yorrplace if' he it. Standing on the threshold, Ie'loked into
!ears the plantation., Remember what I have another apartment somewhat larger than the
told 'you. ior the present, adieu, Sir"  .other. But the only object that he saw was, a
S oarrowscale made a"stiff bow, and turned  female;'figure seated at a table, with her back              -
a wa y;while,In a strange luandary, Felix arose toward'him., A thick vail was hanging on her
wed Absalem Wills. .       ''       chair,'half screening her person ; butwhat he                         J
saw of her form,. wa girlish and graceful. She
.(IAPTER 'III.                was-writing   e could hear a pen gliding over
sraon.                  the paper. 'He silently gazed at the delicately.                                                    -
Absalom Wills conducted' Westerly through rounded shoulders and shapely waist. Eagerly-
s. small ante-room, .to which the Sergeant and did' Feli&amp; look to.see whether she were light or
laid 'inen had reiedh on lesuving, him.  Tliey dark; 'but somie'exatious lace so concealed her
ede'ieepinig sounidly' on the floor, while their neck" 'and ;shoulders, that it was impossible &amp;.

P  f
-e     r .
-
-                t
'     " a+  _


TARNABY, THE SANDHIILLER.                                 U
tell her complexion. It seemed to him that she apron-pockets, and tapping upon the carpet with
was really yellow, and he felt quite faint and her foot.
ie sthe thought. That tt was the woman to   " I suppose, Miss E'thuer, that you belong to.
whomihe was married, he did not doubt; the me, now, as a part of my wife's dower.;.bu,
act.of hepr being there was su icient evidence really, I Iave noense for such a piece of prop-
-                                         erty ; ,therefore, sg far as I am aeneerned, yoi
Wh1iV be stood regarding her with ereusable may consider yourself free--quit9 ;free--.ver
curiosity, a .girl suddenly appeared from the fre, indeed 1"
#ppes ofa widowvand taking him by the arm,   Felixe levated hip ne, and made a royal
silently pushed him from thne room, gesture.
"What do ypnwant ?" he asked,.surprised at  " O ir, youre wovery good I" responded
this movement.                               stlher, witha courtesy if mpok.gratitude.
",Don't disturb -her," said the girl.  ' She  "fook at .ueI" said Westerly,;with afeeted
dtni'twant-to see you. She bates you 1"     solemnity .of manner. *"What am II" He
a" ppy -to hear it " replied Felix. " Who      a'ool3eeyerly ,at the maid.
Aleyp91?"                                     "Ihave made up my mind what you areI"
"I'm Esther, her maid."                   muttered Katber.
".Whoese maid ?" asked Felix, artfully.     " i'rs an ,Otgroen t" sntinued Felix, bend-
" Hera," said Rather, nodding toward ,the ing toward per, an4 depressing hi. voice to a
inrn room.                                 .pifidpnial mneetone.
-" Whet.is she there for1 "                "4n Osoroon 1" repeated the ;girl.
Felix indicated the direction with his fincrer.  "I theeveins," he resumed ,p asepulhrat
" What are you here ,for ?" retorted Esther, tene, apd tonchingithe back of hit tleft hsuid -with
wi,equal spirit.                          the Angers of his right, " you'll And the blood
"Precisely !" responded Felix, rubbing -his of the children of garp 1"
'rehesd.                                     Esther was startled by this announcement.
ither drew back a-little) to consider his face,  "This i pot 541," he ent on, seizing  ear
expression, and person,                     wzsisti. "  m au rpnwried pisal"
dWhat:s my wife'p-oolor?" Felix asked, with  "How glad Miss Diana will be to hear its"
not a little sarcasm of manner.             exclaimed .ather, joyfmly.  The genuineness
- sther, who was a pretty yellow girl, with a of her satisfaction changed tlls current of tip
Asin as soft ,as satin, tossed her head, and dart- young man's thoughts in a -mpninent.
ed a contmptuous glance at Felix.            "Your Mistress wasreally opposed to this
"4 better color than your dirty brown,.Mas- marriage, was she ?" he asked, gravely.
ter !" she pertly answered. Felix, having been  "She bated it,;' answered the maid.
mch exposed to the hot suns of the Misaissip-  "Ie she stillof that mind ?"
pi Valley, was quite tawny, and of a more ques-  "More than ever, Sir., She's made a voz
tinnable complexion than Esther; .so that her never tp see your fare, if she can help it."
remark was not without meaning, although he   "Why did she marry me, then ?"
received it as a concession of the impurity of  " she nould'nt help herself, Sir ; and if yours
her mistress' blood.                        a gentleman, Sir, she says you'll give her up,
"Sweetened cream, no doubt,!' returned Fe- and never take advantage of what has happened
fix, "is preferable to sweetened water !"   against her will "
"She's .the cream, Sir,' said Esther, loftily,  " Is this the truth, girl?"
but she ain't the cream for your eating , Sir."  "Tery word of it, Master, Dreading
"-So I trust I" he answered, piqued. "She's despising you as she does, her nerves lsye been
yellow, is she?"      .in a dreadful condition."
Esther pouted her pretty red lips, and made  "Dreads and despises ne !" repeated Felix,
a scornfInl little bow.                     much amazed at this inforuatioi.
"donrowscale's daughter by a colored mis-  "Once, Sir !" added Esther, "I thought she'd
tress, 1 suppose ?" he added.               have a hysteria; but she's so strong minded
The ma r,1lmade another assenting motion.  that she controls herself wonderful, and keeps
" Certiainly--of course I I wins prepared for all hen' senses when shne ought to be in a dead
Cthqnt. I'm  not in the least surprised ! I, in faint. 'Sie saved your life, Sir ! and, if you
faet, knew it.. It'll be a nice thing to take a ain't a monster of wickedness, you'll have some
yelipY Mrs. Westerly north with me. I might respect for her, and not lead her like a lamb to
have found one nearer home, with less trouble. the slaughter ; which her hard-hearted father
Yoq are half sister, I dare say ? It often hap. connives at."
pens that nistres and maid stand in that rela-  " What would you have me do, Esther ?"
lion."                                      answered Felix, not only surprised, but ecru
"6One would think you was born here, Master founded.
Easterly, you have such a knowledge of the    "Jump out of the window, Sir. Is only the
family," epid Esther, putting her hands in lien' second story," suggested the maid, with an ens-


'12               BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

'thusiasm-the young man could not appreciate.
"I would, Sir, to please a lady," she added,
pereeiving'that he did not appear in haste to
,up.
u " That may do very well to -talk of!" he re-
rplied. "" But'should'I leap, according to your
dvice, Iind, on reflection, that I should strike
on my own legs instead of yours. I do not
wisl tobreak my legs, even to get-rid of a wife."
Esther smiled.
" If your "Mistress," -he resumed, " is anxious
to break this connection, yoi can inform  her
'that' her axixiety is intensely shared by me. I
will enter-into any plot that will give me eter-
nal quittance of this house, and- all the people
~in it."
"Now, you are in earnest-!" cried Esther.'
' 4 Yes,'Master, I will plot with you., And my
Mistress will plot with you, Sir, to get you
away. No ! it won't do to break, your legs by
,jumping from a window. You had better break
your neck than a leg. With a broken leg'you
would have to stay here, the Lord only knows
-bow'long ; and ; there's no tellin' what decep-
tions we should have to practice to keep up ap-
pedranees with her father.  Besides," added
either, naively, "Mistress Diana has- a lover,
who visits her secretly and you cannot imagine
'rhat a trouble'yn-'d be !"'
"So my wife has a lover 9" He raised his
voice purposely, as he had done several times
during this singular conversation. He listened,
'1too, with hisear turned toward the open door.
He heard no scratching of pen upon paper.
Was the new Mrs.'Weterly willing to hear what
was being said? "I lose sight of my own rais-,
fortunes in view of hers. - A husband, in the
house would be a calamity.: Kiss her hand for
me, Esther,"and assure ,her of my earnest co-
operation. Let the favored one come, with a
ball of twine and a rope ladder.  The same
means that bring him to his happiness, shall
carry me from mine l What different-things we
desire in this worldI While one is devising
,ways te get out,'another'is trying to get 'iii."
He- spoke pretty loudly. Esther, who was
standing nearest the door, tripped to the thresh-
old, and glanced in at her mistress. She had
stopped writing, and her manner indicated that
she-had heard frequent allusions to herself.
"'I am  glad y ou are 'so reasonable," said
Esther, returning. " You are not sb wicked as
'we thought you were. If you are not treacher-
ous, my Mistress will be saved, and you will get
-back safe to the Yankees.
"Saved I" muttered Felix. angrily.  "Per-
lmps your' Mistress thinks she has married a
gorilla "
" Esther I" said a soft voice-that made Felix'
start.-
The girl flitted away in an instant, Closing the
door after her. Mistress and maid were to have
- coaference, to doubt.

CHAPTER IV.
TH    SITUATION.
Esther returned, by and by, less pert an&amp;
more serious.    :    --
"My- mistress is glad that you have sense
enough to wish to escape. She says that the
more'faithfully you forget her, and the farther
you are:off, the better she will'like you."
1 The girl stopped, and seeing that she had left
the door ajar. hastened'to shut it,,remarking :s
",Your voice disturbs her very much. She
thinks it harsh and disagreeable."
" I beg her pardon for my voice, I am sure,"
said Felix, his vanity considerably wounded ;
for he prided himself on his'voice. "I hope she
will be spared hearing it 'overmuch. Perhaps
she had better put cotton in her ears."
" The probability is, that she will have to bear
it several hours, unless you muster courage to
try the window. My mistress says, that in all
the books she has read, she hasn't found an in-
stance where a gentleman broke his limbs by
jumping from a window."
" Your mistress is very good to mention it. I
was. fortunate in 'being wedded. to a lady of
so much forethought. Should I remain here-
twenty-four' hours I shall be curious to see'her
charming face. Her eyes beam with-tenderness,
I know I" continued Felix, with an expression
of countenance that made Esther smile.
Thus far the girl had scarcely deigned to
notice him ; but now she began a survey of his
person. She found him'shapely anl of pleasing
face. She secretly admitted that he had manly
beauty-no trifling possession, in her opinion.
An - octoroon he was not, whatever he might
say: to the contrary. This, with other tales,
she regarded as inventions of the moment. He
found favor in* Esther's eyes. Concealing the
softening of her prejudices, she added: "You
are to stay here until after dark, when you are,
in some way, to be got rid of."
" It would have saved some hunger and thirst,
if I had been delivered over to the Sergeant last
night. You eee it would haie been all over by
this time. But this thing is not all over. Mar-
riage is never soon over," sighed Felix.
You ought to be grateful to my mistress,
Sir, for saving your life," said Esther, sharply."
"You would be underground now, if it hadn't
been for her. You ought to be on your knees,
thanking the saints and other things for not- be-
ing.a dead Yankee."'
"'here is some show of reason in that," an-
swered Felix, reflectively. "Tell your mistress
that I am her slave', and humbly wait-her com-
mands."
Westerly bowed very low to, Esther, as the
present representative of his bride.
"I can't take that elegant bow to Mistress
Diana, but I'll repeat what you have said," said
Esther.
f' Add that I am hungry," amended Felix.

BARINABY, THE SAND1IILLER.

&amp;'I am going to tell Old Sut to bing you
something. If you's in love with my distress,
you wouldn't be hungry, I'll warrant. Ab, Sir,
between you and I, secretly, she's as handsome
as she can be ! You'l never, never see such a
face and form as hers."
" Don't talk of other faces," returned Felix.
",You have a pretty face yourself. I confess I
like that faint and blushing yellow."'
" 0 Sir I You are' flattering the maid in-
stead of the mistress. 'Remember that you are
a married man, and have a wife in the next
room, beside, whose lovelings niy own stained
cheeks are like dead leaves to living roses. But
it is wasting breath to talk of it. She is suffer-
ing martyrdom, and she hates you."
-  No need; of that !" muttered Felix. Being
mutually anxious to get away from each other,
I see no reason for hatred.".
Esther was going slowly from the room, when
Felix stopped her.
" Look here, girlI A thought has occurred to
me.. I have a servant, who is a very wonderful
fellow, who would be of great use. to me if I
could manage to communicate with him. He's
an inhabitant of this part of the country, too,
and familiar with the plantations within a,eir-
cuit of twenty miles.  left him on a gunboat;
but I'll wager he didn't stay there long after I
was missed."
"You can't expect me to run after him !"
said Esther,, tossing her head."
" Certainly not!" answered Felix, with in
mense politeness. "But then if I should pay
you for =your time and friendship, you would
perhaps condescend to inform me if you shouild-
see an eccentrie-looking fellow hanging about
the plantation. Guards being set about this
house, and every military precaution..taken to
prevent my escape, you will perceive that it is
not going, to be an easy matter to rid your
mistress of a husband and myself of a, wife ;
and any assistance that we can secure. from
without, is to be sought and accepted. My poor
Barnaby will track me, I doubt not. but he will
scarcely have skill to reach me. Besides, he
has reason to avoid contact with the Rebels ;
recognition would be fatal to him." -
" Then he'd better keep away," advised Es-
ther. "Master Borrowscale is dreadful hard on
them as don't go into the ranks and fight. If
your Barnaby comes spyin' around, he'll get
his throat tickled with a cotton rope, like as
not. Them as is called guerrillas has strung
up a many of white folks for just notliin' at all,
except refusin' to 'list." With these not very
consoling remarks, Esther left the room ; and
shortly afterward, Old Sut entered, spread a
cloth upon a small table, laid two covers, then
brought a tray ofrefreshments.
Felix eyed the two covers suspiciously. Old
Sut performed his duties silently, now and then
stealing an inquiring look at Westerly.

I&amp;:

This negro had a peculiar expression. His
face was not black, but of a deep yellow. His
skin was singularly bright and glossy.  His
cheeks were, sunken, his lips thin, the' white
teeth standing out a little, bt't not enough to.
give a marked Africai look. His nose', was
rather flat. , His. eyes brilliant, with" a
broad, high forehead, around which his white'
wool clustered in f,' striking manner.    -
though past middle age, he was, yet full' of"%i;
tity and strength.' When he looked at- one,
he seemed to question his thoughts, and' had
a remarkable way of making "himself useful
without being obtrusive. He had a grace air;
and seldom laughed. , He was a very serious
chattel... His name was Suttle'; but he'va.
called Sut, and finally, as years came upon him,
Old Sut.
He was remarkably reticent, and his e6nfi.
deuces were supposed, by his fellow-slaves, to
be few. ,He might have been given to brooding
and ,misanthropy; but he troubled nobody with
the inner workings of hie mind.. If he haid
loves, or griefs, or hatreds, few could boast a
knowledge of them. 'In the eyes of Borrow-
scale, lie had one failing ; he knew too much..
He could actually read and write;' therefore be
was jealously watched ; but, conducted himself
so pr -dently that no great wickedness, iuch as
might be expected to cone of reading and writ-
ing, had yet been laid to his charge. Since the
breaking out of the Rebellion, his stern master
had kept him more severely under serutin', but
without making startling discoveries. Thehe
matters Felix learned afterward, and not from
immediate observation. All the time he was
laying the little table, he was obviously sthdy-
ing the character and countenance of Westerly;
but with so much tact that the latter felt no
annoyance. He resolved to' ask 'Esther if Old.
gut could be trusted.
4" What are your politics ?" said Felix, turn.
ing upon him abruptly.
" Mars'r's polities is mine," answered the ne-
gro, with a servile bow.
"Very discreet 'indeed," said Felix. "Su-
pose that your, master should change his poli-
tics suddenly ?"
" Mars'r is allus right, and I should change,
too," answered Sut, humbly. "A poor' nig
mustn't know more'n white folks."
" In slavery, obedience is happiness," said
Felix, looking steadily at the black. " If' I
were a slave, I would eringe'and bow, and do
what I was,- bidden. A thing must not try to
act like a man."
"'True, Masr'r. Thatyer is Gospel truth to.
niggers. How is the' Yanks gittia' along at
Vicksburg, Ma'rs'r?" added the black.   He
threw a sly glance at Felix, but kept on witir
his work.
" They make slow progress," repliai taw
young man, carelessly.

e            'y
t i5  N
11
tiY C
14  "
kt,  ll
' r1
' f                                           nci
!                                        1~
t     fi    I{g
C   "1


t4. .LANABY, 'THE SAND1ILLER.
" How's them big ditches, Mars'r ?"        " You war, and that's fack. The man that
The negro's'faee was as immobile as tisuil.  done it was a ieal preacher ; and I knows of a
" Falluresa-fihires, one and all. But Gen- good'many folks that he's married."
cral Grant is ot ids. You-can tell your black  "Then, legally, I can control this' young
brethren that he will not rest till lie has'taken lady Y'''observed Felix, thoughtfully.'
eksrg."                                     Im'afeard 'o,-Mira'r," said Sot, shaking hie
" Many of 'em down there " queried but, in head, "'though the times is troubled, and no-
a suppressedvoice, Aid glancing at the door.  body khows what a day'll bring' forth.  Thar's
Be weeni four aI4 iv4 tho'ipAnd," replied ware a'nd'rumora ofwars ; ihsurteetibhs and ri-
Felig, loo ingwishfailg at theeold' meSt ol the mora - of insut-reetioner; oodhinotions- -' nong
table, n ' mirardy prtiiigetliat Either-woid blak and"'white ;' and nien's hearts failin''iea
come to his reief.'                        fo'ar."
" Mars'i," added Old Sht, in a tone still low-  The negro spoke with a Singular freedom frbm
er, " you're hungry. lat, and don't be afeard assumption or familiarity.  Still hesitating; he
o' me. I knob ye come from one o' them yer continued :
gunboats; and a ha'r o' your head' won't be  "I say, Mars'r, them  gunboats is cur'ous
harmed through me. I know what's happened, things. You ken run 'em right up a ditch; can't
and ye must git away; dead sure. You could ye? But they do dreffiul mischief I We earn
help. it no how, lara'r, kase life is sweet, "I about 'emii up here.  Mars'r Borrowuseale calls
know what's gwine on, but I never talks ; least- 'em 'damned Yankee 'contraptions', and would-
ways, to colored people."'                 n't Be m eb s'prised to find 'em anchored in the
"'That s wiseo; but I believe prudence is not door-yard some mornin', arter a rain.  He's
a charaeteristle of'your race," answered Felli.  more scared of them than anything else."
"Right, Mare'i. White folks is allas right,"  "Are you a' Rebel ?'' Felix asked, regarding
said Sot, resignedly. "Niggera'begin the world the boudinan steadily.
wrong; they begin with a black skin, which ii  Old Sot looked up and said, " Yes"; but his
the sign and seal of servitude."           eyes-beamed with unwonted' animation and in'
"F' om time immemorial," returned Westerly, telligeuce.
nrhase hunger was tantalized by the sight of;food.  "S'pect''m a Rebble," he went on, musing
The negro had finished laying'the table, but ly, with the same curious expression of counte-
seemed reluctant to go. le evidently wanted nance. "'Knows I am. Our masters'ia fightin'
to be moreconfidential,                  for liberty ; aid -liberty' is what we like. You'll
" Well, what is it ?" asked Felix. " You wish allers find the colored man whar thar's the most
to say something."                        liberty."
"les ; of her," making a motion toward the  Old Sut pronounced the last sentence 'with so
next room. btmtch significance, that Westerly could not fail
" Go on ; but be brief."                to understand his meaning.
" She's a nice lady, is Missus Diana, but she  "'True, true!" he responded, with warmth.
he'n't had her own way much. I hope, Mars'r,  "We dwell in the midst of death," added the
you'll consider carcumstances, and not carry black. "Persecution and torture surround us.
this thing no further; kase she's proud, and Our sweat, and blood, and tears'have been pour-
won't be trafficked away like a black *oman."  ed out a long time, and they will perhaps be-
"Don't be 'troubled, good fellow," replied comne vials of wrath for our enemies.  But we
Felix, smiling. " I do not intend that she shal ruust not speak ; but we must not murmur ; we
have occasion to like or dislike me. I am anz- must not pray, for the breakin' of our chains,
ious to cast away this pearl'whih I have found and the lftin' of heavy burdens. We must look
in Captivity. I am not romantic, but hungry." down in humility, and learn,'with aching hearth,
Old Sut looked at Felix, and shook his head all the hypocrisies of bondage."
dubiously.               .                   He spoke quietlytand in low tones.
" Have you seen her, Mars'r ?" he asked,   "Yes," he repeated ; "s'pect I'm a Itebble ;
presently.                                 knows I be."
" I have had 'a fine view of her back," answer- 2elix was interested in this cautious llank.
ed Felix, with a mild; attempt at humor. "I There was manifestly more wisdom in his white
was delighted.' If I should see her face, I'don't head than he was willing to show on' every oe-
know' what vould happen to me." '           esion., He was 4' guarded ahd ' creful chattel ;
-"'-Don't y'ou never seeit,"' said Sut, solemnly. and the conviction came upon Felix that he
"It. won't do yu uno good. It' might do ye might make him.a friend. Heas about to ask
heaps o''mischief. Lord love: ye, she wounds other questions; when Esther re-entered, with
deeper nor bagnets ; and her mind's el'ar done somue appearance of alarm.  She looked from
gone mnabde  agina nye'  '               '"Feli to But hastily.
" Tetl inc one thing, and' do not-de6eive me"  "You are very slow' today," she said to the
added Felix, with dignity ; "Were #e thtfy latter." "Master Westerly should be served with
and legally narrie, '                      more haste.  You can go ; I" will wait upon

BARNABY, THE SANDIIILTER.                                ti
him. A girl is not so much in the way of young Mistress Diana bidame.  If I's in your place,
m arried folkeoa a gabblia' old man. We lI ring I shouldn't feel siseasy asyou d. One of the
if we want'you," .servadta has justntold my' midtress that some of
014 Sut weantout with unruffledtempers  the Confederates are secretly watchinthe house,
6"So; Sir," said Esther, bridling, "yonWe to get aohande to, kill yo(i.  They say 4hey
been talkie' treason to that ,irnple-xl|dod old wonet 'lo a Yankee to'liveton aplantatiand"
.re eanlo0Perhapiherloteristamong thei"V1 queril
" Simple-urindrd  repented' Felix,-with no aFliA, staventr4.
little eontemupt. for: her judgment, and seating ?9That's just the case, Master Westerly. Eis
himself at.the small table. 'O01 he'sia-fool,.ii tress 'advises: you to keep a*ay from' the win-
he? pity there Weren't more underwittediserv' dowse for yon might be-pieked, off whensyon
aate.about this house."                    aren'texpectin' it. Shall I tell you what Ithfnkp
Esther elevated=her chin pertly.         Master Wedterly'?"
"Inform Mrs. Westerly, girl, that our break.  Esther eimesna close to him as sheeould, id
fast;waits," said Felix, with all:the nonchalance looked serious.
he could express.                         "You'll telime"that without'perraission" he
"it's little: breakfast that my mistress.will eat said.
with;yobi Sir, unless you two sit back to backl"  " You  seem to be quite a- nice young man,"
"That would be a novel way of sitting atta  resumed Estherispeaking just above a whisper,
ble," answered:Felix. "Oblige:me by pouring " and it's a pity that youhadn't'gtaldpeaeably
some coffee,"                              at, home; for it's my opinion you- won't get
Esther:filled a china 'cup with:coffee.  eway from here alive.'
"kAnother;" said Felix                   "A cheerful view of things certalnlyi" ob
The girbpoured a second.cup.             served!Felix; with a'secret sinking of the heart.
"Take. it to your, mitress, with my oomph.  "I wouldn't be in 4yon place, Sir, for all-thin
ments.. Sayto herethatI regret being.theeamnae here lower world I" protested Esther.
of perseoutionand thatmy life, saved by he' is  " Yo  hadi perha s. rather be in your Mis.
entirely at her disposal. A life thus purchased t'essi' place I' said elix; invidiously.
should be repaid by obedience."    -         "Not I I" sneered Esther. ".I wouldn't maw
.Felixbegan to eatvoraciously.        ry'a Yankee, anyways."
Esther, quite perplexed, carried the coffee;  " You are fond of color, I see."
asbidden, but soon came -back with it, saying :  " Nor a nigger, Sir!i" continued Esther, with
+'My mistress says she lost'her appetite last -reat emphasis. "And- what's more, I won't
-ight"                                   ' .. talked down and put upony'specially while
"So didi; but I have found it: again," said I m tryin' to do ye a.good turn. But I might
Felix, coolly. " Indifference' needs more feeds as well telliye Miss Diana's plan, seein' as how
ing than love. A man in love has.'no hunger, you won't-listen to good, advice  I'm to tell
it is said ; but look at' me, my satin skinned Masteri Brro*scale that: you' and the young
maid.;. I am a cormorant."               lady,:Sir, are=gettin' acquainted, and "thatevery..
I That's because.you; think you're' safe; but thing 'is' gain' on cozy and- comfortable like;
you don't know what a.Bluebeard my master that Mistress speaks to you and looheat you,
s t" muttered Esther. "'Make it for:bis-inter- and if letalone, will put up with you. We can
est, and.he'd as soon have you- hanged as mar- keep up' this' deception for a day, you know;
rid,   It would take the' conceit out:ofi you to but :it must'tlast much longer, there's so many
see what I have seen."                     troubles in the way ; so you must play your
"As a; piece of personal property of mine- part,,Sir, and do as well as 'you can."
give me another slice of that ham, Esther-I  " But as she really won't see me, nor speak
must say that you(are impertinent'; and were I to me, I fear it will not be a very cheerful af-
going to remain here, like a dutiful son-inlaw fair ;. and ;if myfather.in.law should take itinto
and loving husband;'Iwduidgive you'a taste' of his, head, to listen at the door; or, to visit Us,
discipline. But as 'we are soon to dissolve part- her little plot would fall to the ground."
nership, you' may talk to me precisely as if I  " Youi mutt trust to luck for that'; there's
didn't own you."       "'     '"risks to run in everything. But Master Bor
Esther dropped a fork, and stared at her:new roirsoale is. already gone to look after them
masters , He was certainly a handsome man! Yankee gunboats, which, they say, is every-
He had beautiful hair, and eyes to please' wom- where, and . can actually run' up a.tea-kettl4
en.  His manners were elegant.  There was spout, they? re such queer craft. So you can
something authoritative'= in his:voice, now and make'yourself easy for the-present."
then, which gave her unexpected-rebuffs.     " But wouldn't.it be more sensibles"returned
" Own me, indeed 1 And my skin tisno more Felix; musingly, "'for your mistress to come
eatin than yours 1" sher responded, elevating in and 'chat with me.".
her; pkungps yellow' shoulders' seulkily. " But " Lord Sir!1 Don't mention it. The alight of
we're to be friehds just 'nowv and I' mzust ad4 as a Yankee would give 'her a fit -of the trembles."

E


BARNABY, TIE SANDHILLER.

Esther's face expressed untold alarm.. -
"A  deplorable state of the' nerves 1"mute
tered Felix.: " I ,have been ;informed 'that
Southera'ladieshave-violent. tempers, and' are
wofully ignorant. .:Ihabe heard that many of
them beat their-slaves.with their~own fairhands,
hand arp guilty of:innumerable cruelties.; n.-
Less, now, that your mistreseshas chastised you
with her ,slipper.".
:Felix looked at herwith, provoking coolness;
whilesall th'e'yellow 4' Esther's cheekaturned
toted.: .
" She never struck me a blowsin her life, Sir,
with, her Lslipper or anything else1d" sthe re-
torted angrily                          s
I"Tmunot a nigger,:Master Westerly,.to-'be
whipped and cuffed about ; and if I was to be
punished, she wouldn't bethel one;to do;it, nor
she wouldn't have it done, neither. .Anybody
might know  that you're a wicked Northern
'mancipator, and I'll tell Mistress Dianathat
you've got a face lilfe'a river-pirate.: And if I
should see anybody that. looks- like your
Barnaby husking , about, I'll have Absalom
Wills turn thebounds on him.
Esther rang the bell spitefully..
" I should think you'd be fond of hounds,"
said Felix, quietly.' "They bring you back,
when yoru run away."
Esther bounced out of the-, room, in ill-
humor.;-r
Old Sut answered the bell..
---'
CHAPTER V.
HOW TO GET 'OUT.
Felix Westerly watched the bondman closely
as he silently performed his 'duties. He was
trying to decide whether he -could ,make a friend
of him. He judged ,by what Esther .had. said
that she was not inclined to make'him a sharer
of her secrets ; but he differed from the yellow
maid in his estimate-of Sut's character. While
she took a superficial view, he:looked deeper,
and finally'resolved to make friendly advances
to the.black..              --, ,
"You ate called Old Sut?" said Felix, by-
and-by. t-- .=
Y;ea, Mars 'r." .-
" Can you be trusted ?" continued Felix..,
"Some can trust me, and some can't,".replied
But, ambiguously.  "Thar's them I wouldn't
advise to. try it. Slaves can't keep secrets,
nohow."
-" I'm a prisoner," added Felix, seriously.
A prisoner under singular circumstances. I
have reason to think that:,my life is in danger.
I must escape. I must leave this house."
He watched ,the effect of 'his words on Old
Sut, who'listened respectfully., ,  . .
" Yes, Mars'r, you must leave this yer house.
I 'spect I'm a Rebble, but I don't mind sayin'
that you must git a*ay."-
"'Tell me bow," said Felix, quickly. -

The negro shook his head.
' rMars'r, open that blind Snd look out' orthat
yer winder, and see what ye kin see."
"Some shelter-tents, and "soldiers 'lolling in
the sun' Were they sent up from 'Vicksburg ?"
" No, Mara' ; ',they never war thar. Thar's
a heap of 'em up and down the river, thatiwar
never in the reg'har line'of'sojerin'. -If you's to
look on .t'othei' side,-you'd 'see more of 'em.
They'rehere jest'to look Frter the Yanikees, and
take:k'eer o' thereotton. 1 Tie Feds,.Mars'r says,
don't come here for nothi', 'but to steal- cotton
and niggers; -which is drdffOl'wieked. If they
want 'outtoti, why don't they grow it; -and if
they wan't slaves, 'whyldnn't, they'raise 'em, like
we do ? But as I's sayin', Mars'r, 'how you
gwinse 'to -git 'by 'them  'Federates'? -Thar's' a
sogerdwith a musketi afore every door, front and
back. :-Then e'll the housesarvints'-has -orders
to watch ye ;and they'll git a wicked cuttin'-up
if you should get away. But jest the most
sharpest anal faithffuiest if 'em all' is the over-
seer, who has his orders d'rect "from Mars'r
Borrerseale hisself, and knows all that's gwine
on on this-plantation. Thar's whar the trouble
is,"-continued Sut,'with a subdued air and voice,
keeping one eye on the door, and another c'
the freighted tray before him.
"Is he cunning ?" asked Felix.
"I'm a Rebble, and you mustn't speet no'
syinpathy'from me; but I. tell ye, Sah, he am
as-cunning as the Ol Nick hisself. He's: hand
on the f eldihands ;' and Phar'oh's heart, which
the Lord hardened,was butter compared to his'n.
His lieart" was never softened torrard a black
skin. - I've seen. sights that'd"'make ye sick ?
They are all skeered of him, and hate him
mighty bad. Now,how you gwine to git away ?
You're as safe, Mars'r,.as a rat in a rat-trap.'
'A! Should you 'be afraid to assist me in th.
night.?" asked Felix, cautiously.
',"Toomuchrisk," answered But, gravely.
"You a can go: with me.. Once aboard of a
gunboatp and ' you can, shake your finger defi-
antly at Absalom Wills."'
",The-time hasn't come yet, I'm afeard. I
must stay. whar my. work 'is," said But, re-
flectively. :" But I'll think,'bout it, Mars'r," he
added.
" You will, at least, be silent?"
"Never fear, Sah; never fear! If I don't
help ye,.I won't put nothing ' in the way," re-
sponded the black, with earnestness.
 I have a white :servant,' continued Felix,
hesitatingly, "who is much attached to me;
and who may, in his foolish zeal to find me, get
into difficulty."
"Describe him, Mars'r."
"It is difficult," replied Westerly. "He is
tall-and s'im, and goes stooping; 'is awkward in
his movements, but makes up in assurance what
he lacks in grace. His face is good-humored,
and his eyes full of drollery. His hair is light

is

7// fl1ui1y111jj1j41y,117111t:f,,7jffrf


ISARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

rand . long; his beard scraggly and white,, a4d
a neck like ei crane's. His cheeks are garnished
witii trecklls. fl ?L s lost a front tooth. As
fog li ds ess, it niay be one thing, or it ynny; be
:another; h1 is not over-particular. I left him
in a Federal suit, but X dare say he'll come in
some unexpected shape."
"Mars'r," answered ,i But., after ,a pause,
" yoti lave trustedme, and ypu're the first white
man that ever done it."  e walked softly to
the dor, then came laek, andaded: "You've
done well, Sab. You've got eyes like a ferret,
'and you looks sharp afore you leap. Your
Chances won't be no worse for what you've tole
me. 'Tell ye what, Mars'r, Ole But a'n't a fool!
S'sves, Sah, has to be as cunnin' as snakes.
Ohattles is hypicrites. Hypocrisy is a lesson
they learn in childhood. But.I won't trubble
ye with that yer. 'Pears like I'll keep a look-
out for your boy, though I don't think he liles
ye well enough , Sal, to run his neck into danger.
Thar isn't -much 'fection in this yer world, but
thar's a heap o' hatred. Have ye spoke to
her ?"
"We have not spoken--except through
Esther. She lies promised her aid. What is
ihe object of this singular proceeding?"
"The marriage, Sah 9 Don't ask me !" an-
swered Sut, drawing back in alarm.   "I'm
wine, Mars'r. I've talked too much; and if
Absalom Wills knowed what has passed atween
us, you wouldn't never see this white head o'
mine agin in the Lor's world."
Old But took ip his tray with some trepida.
tion. Felix followed him to the door, and
asked, in a whisper :
" Is she white :"
The negro looked, at the questioner queerly,
shrugged his shoulders, and was about to an-
suer, when footsteps were heard in the hall.
Westerly walked to the other side of the room,
while Sut went out with the tray.
Felix now had time to reflect on the situation.
Several' important events bad happened. ,He
had been captured by the enemy ; his. life had
,been in danger ; he had been married. These
were not trifling matters ; either one.of them
was enough to make a man serious.. The peril,
it appeared, was by no means past. He wasyet a
prisoner, subject to many unpleasant contin.
agencies. The woman to whom he had been so
strangely united, was in the next room. He had
not seen her face, scarcely herd her voice, and,
had but a very vague idea of ler person. Like
two strange pigeons, they were shut up together
and expected to mate. All this was.very ex-
ti-aordinary. He could find nosatisfactory mo
tive for the marriage, so far as the father of the'
bride was concerned. He suspected that her
birth and blood had something to do, with it.
Whatever the moving cause was, ib was much
like those incredible tales so charmingly told in
4he Arabian Nights. -

.Iis bride, it seemed, was greatly averse to the
unlover-like proceeding, which rendered it more
ir.comprehensible. He shrank from the posil-
bility of yellow blood. Possibly, Eorrowscale
wished to elevate iis daughter by this eonness
tion, and, so take Away her, reproach. But he
was not, inclined to, thank him for the ofspring
of an illicit relationship.
Escape was an imperative necessity. How
should 'it be accomplished ? The iald. would
assist, the mistress ,would. assist, and -he believed
that Old gut would render useful aids That was
promising, so far as it went; but he felt an in-
stinctive dread of Absalom Wills and Borrow.
scale.
H  walked to and fro, examined the doors and
the windows, and tried to calculate the distance
to the ground. He opened a shutter. Imme-
diately a pane was shattered, and the report of
a rifle followed. Felix fell down, not very hard,
but with sufficient Clatter to bring Esther from
the next room, in haste. She found the young
man lying motionless on his side, with hi! left
arm flexe4 comfortably under his head. Thorp
was a little smutch of blood og his vest. His
eyes were closed, and his face was rather calm
for one so recently shot.
'The bride came to the door, and looked in.
Felix stole a glance, at her from under his hypo-
critical lids ; but if lie meant to see her face by
cunning, he was mistaken, for mistress and maid
had been busy with needle and' scissors, and
pasteboard and silk, and the mask had been
made, which Diana was trying on at the very
moment of the accident. She appeared to Felix
with this wonderful contrivance, concealing
every feature. All lie could see of her counte-
mance was the vague brightness of two dark eyes.
He was foiled. Miss Diana was evidently in
earnest in her purpose not to be seen; but she
was fluttered and agitated, as women always are
when accidents occur.
Esther was also startled. She contemplated
the prostrate figure with pale cheeks. ter first
exclamation was:
"Gracious goodness, Mis tDiana, I do believe
he's dead I"
A very brief pause.
" There's no more color in his cheeks than in
white paper," she added, which was an e agger-
ation, for his cheeks were browner than her own.
"What a dreadful tithing I" murmured her
mistress softly approaching.
Felix lifted his drooped lids enough to see the
feet of his wife. In diminutiveness they match-
ed her hands.
"See the blood!" sighed Esther.
The mistress was cooler than the maid.
" Spesk to Lim, Esther ; speak to him I" she
said. " He does not look very dead, I am sure."
"0,. Mistress, hpw e a yo  any, soI" cried
Esther, whose judgment ha gpne. " is face
is horrid deadly. Lad ho was a nice young

in

19


20                 3ARNABY, THE SANDIIILLER.

man to look at. I never set my eyes on a de-
center looking' gentleman ; for he was a gentle-'
man, I do think. You'd ought to bearn him
talk to me, when lie dropped his voice down
low and soft, and was right smart in earnest."
Another interval of silence.
Esther took hold of his shoulder and gave
hin a little shake.. Felix made no sign of life.
She shook him more roughly.
"Put your hand on his heart," suggested the
mistress.
"Lord, Miss,! I don't know where a man's
heart is. If he'4 san you, I'd know where to
look for it right well," returned Esther, growing
bolder, kneeling beside Felix, and touching his
forehead.                              .
The deceiver sighed, and thought it prudent'
to be reviving.               liti pre
"Bring some water," said Diana, bending
over Felix, and observing him closely.
Esther brought camphor instead of water.
"Here is no loss of blood," added Diana.
" He 'is but stunned. If there is bleeding, it' is'
internal. lis countenance is fresh and life-like,
and not ghastly, as you said." Her band glided
to his wrist, and her soft fingers pressed his
pulse. The conscious blood thrilled through
his veins. His hypocrisy was in danger of ex-
posure..
Esther spilled some camphor into his eyes
and nose. He started co, ivulsively, but not till
Diana had felt his heart throbs swelling very
regularly under her sensitive fingers. He rais-
ed himself upon his elbow and made a dash at
his eyes with his right 'hand, for they smarted
painfully.
The masked lady stepped back quickly and
suspiciously. Had she dropped her mask, one
could have seen a carmine flush upon her cheek.
She glanced at the shattered pane, and itneeded
that reality to assure her that anything serious
had happened. Her eyes, traveling back in a
line with the broken pane, saw where the mis-
sile or ball had struck the table and glanced off
into the wall.
"It is not so bad as!T feared," shesaid. "Here
is where the shot hit the table. It could not
have passed through his lungs."
Felix felt rebuked.
"Lend me your arm, Esther," he stammered.
and, with her help, arose to his feet. " I beg
your pardon; Madam," he added, "for any
alarm I may have'eaused you. I believe I am
not seriously hurt."
Diana bent her head coldly.
"For shame, to make believe I" exclaimed
Esther, derisively.
"I am indebted for safety, I think," continued
Felix, -coloring, and drawing 'forth 'his watch,
"to this."  There was a lead-colored furrow,
along the case.
Dianabowed with a trifl6 less stateliness.
" A the'uesad pardons, Madam, for causing

you a moment's -uneasiness. I am sure yo.
must be disappointed at so slight an injury ;.
'but I presented a fair mark, and I cannot help
it. Blame the watch, Madam, and not me."
Diana 'remained silent, and looked at her
maid.
"Mv mistress isn't wicked, Sir, nor never-
was," said the latter, elevating her nose. "I
wai-ned' ye to keep away from the window."
"Madam," said Felix, with' empressement,
"there is no more doubt of your goodness'
than of your beauty. Positively, I think you
an angel ; but I, being a common sort of crea-
ture, am not fitted for your society ; and, there-
fore, am magnanimous enough to wish to leave'
you' by any gate, except that of death. I did
practice deception, with the intention of surpris-
ing you' and seeing your face, and make the'
only atonemnlit in. my power by voluntary
confession. It is not a crime for a man to wish
to see his wife."    '
"A small device," murmured Diana.
" But the blood ?" queried Esther, as some,
drops trickled from the ends of his fingers.
" A slight cut in the arm made by a fragment
of glass," answered .Felix. He rolled up his
sleeve as he spoke, and showed an arm white an
a woman's.'- The ball had grazed it in passing,
and lacerated the flesh. Esther's interest re-
vived.
"Give me your handkerchief, Miss Diana,"'
she said. " See how he bleeds!"
" Take your dwn I" retorted the mistress.
The girl fumbled in her apron-pockets, but
could not find one.
"It's of no consequence" said Felix, loftily.
"I have been in battles, where such scratches:
are laughed at."
With some reluctance, Diana threw a muslin
trifle at her maid, who, with shaking fingers,
bound it about the martyr's arm.
"It's'a pity," said Felix.
." Wha's a pity ?" asked Esther.
"To 'stain so dainty a handkerchief.' I will
keep it as a souvenir of my wife."
The nose of the silk mask went up a little
higher.
, " He who is content with a bit of muslin, is
an obliging husband," added Felix.
Esther closed the shutters cautiously, taking
care not to expose her person to those outside.
Diana walked toward her own room thought-
fully.       .  -
"Madam," continued Felix, determined to
make thie most of the' opportunity, "I hope
you have been fruitful' in expedients. Have
you devised any means of getting me out of
this house ?"
"She has," interposed Esther, speaking for
her mistress. "She has thought of two way.;
and both is 'Wonderful.",
" Well?"'
'Nobody but Miss Diana would ever hai

BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

bit umion such a cur'ous plan. The chimney,'
Sir, the chimney!"
" What of the chimney?"
" Up the chimney and down the leads."
"Me!"cried Felix.
"You, Sir. -'That's one way. There's an-
other."
"Up the chimney and down the leadsi' re-
peated Felix.
" And down the lightnin'-rods," added the
girl.
"I think I can see myself crawling up a
chimney, and letting myself down-by the light.
ning-rods 1" muttered  Felix, grandly.  "I
wouldn't do it to get 'rid of the best woman
that ever was."    I
Diana's feet were arrested on the'threshold
by this declaration.
"I might be popped from the roof of the
house like a squirrel!'" he continued. " It is
one thing to plan and another to execute. I
am-not a chimney-sweep, Miss Yellowskin." :.
" Yellowskin !" echoed Esther, with unmea-
sured contempt. "If you'd be a little more
polite, Sir, you'd fare better. If it wasn't for
my mistress' sake, I wouldn't tell you the other
plan, which is safest of all; which" is down the
chimney, into the cellar, and out through the
:drain-"
" Thank you !" retorted Felix, biting'his lips.
" I am not a * ater-rat, nor an inspector of
seers."
"I must say, that, considering the circum-
stanees,'yon're mighty particular," said Esther.
"The drain is quite airy, Sir, and you might
hide in it a week, without once being found.
Nobody'd ever think of lookin' for you there."
"I don't think they would !" said Felix, dryly.
"If you 'had any regard for the lady's feelin's,
Sir, you wouldn't be so nice," protested Esther,
indignantly.'
"I have some, regard for my own feelings,
at any rate. If you like the drain project, you
can try it."
"Really, Sir, I begin to doubt your sincerity,"
aaid Diana, breaking her long silence. "If you
desired to leave me as much as you 'profess to,
fou would be less fastidious about the rmeans."
"Excuse me, my charming wife," answered
Felix, sarcastically, "but I have some respect
for appearances, as well as for practicabilities.
You are certainly less offensive thin the drain,
and less dangerous than the lightn ing-rods. I
I-eally do not believe that you can make your-
se' as disagreeable as a sewer."
"You are very obliging, Sir!" returned
Diana, stify. "I am flattered by your good
opinion. But I must request you to drop the
familiar appellation by which you lastaddressed
me. Our present compact is one of necessity.
'and will dissolve with your escape."
" Lovely being," returned Felix, with gracefmml
4rony, "do not talk of drains and chimneys to

your husband, who, justice to myself compels,
me to say, is a gentleman both by family, edu-
cation, and instinct."
." He might hide in the cistern," suggested'
Esther, sotto voce.
" Oh yesI Or in the oven ; or tinder the
bed ! The resources of your maid, Madam, are
remarkable.  You. perceive that night is ap-
proaching, and, seriously, if-you can point out
any reasonable method of exit, I am willing to
incur a great risk ; although leaving you be-
hind, I leave a part of myself!"
"Do not pain me, Sir, by allusions to myself,"
replied the lady, with earnesthess. "What you
do not comprehend, be 'satisfied not to know.
A thousand causes act upon the humaan heart
and upon human conduct. We met in the man-
ner known to you, and we shall part as abruptly'
We met, we parted, is- all the history that will
be written of us conjointly."
"Not all," said Felix. ' Something more may
be written. Life, Death, Marriage, are the three
realities 'of this world."
"I have it !" exclaimed Esther, with enthu-
siasm. " Let him put on your' clothes, and go
out boldly as"soon as it is dark."
"Put on a doll's clothes !" laughed Felix,
glancing at the small figure of Diana. Even
the latter seemed amused by this suggestion.
" Or he might fight his way out with a pistol""
continued Esther, not in the: least discouraged
by the unpopularity of her propositions.
"Stop, girl!" said her mistress. "4You have
no judgment. If you had suggested the trans-
forming him into Old Sut, it Would have been
mores sersible. Unless," she added, "the gen-
tleman has such a'respect for appearances that
he would object to a little burnt cork."
" My good friends," answered Felix, cordially,
"I will not object to a bushel of burnt corks, if
the thing looks practicalland it be your pleasure."
Westerly bowed in his most bland mannerr;
which extraordinary concession she repaid by a
slight courtesy. It seemed to him that she
looked him over with more interest. She had
him at considerable odds, however; .for while
she could see-the changes of his expression, lie
could not see through thie silken mask. But
the eyes flashed upon hii now and then, like
stars. To Felix, they were becoming myster-
ious orbs, full of blended light and darkness.
"He could easily be fixed up as Absalom
Wills," said Esther, attacking the puzzling prob-
lem again with unabated spirit.
" I hope that there are but fed' points of re-
semblance between us," rejoined Felix, dissatis-
fled with the implication of the maid. " You
may make a negro of me, but not a savage."
" You'll get no more help from meI'll warn
ye !" cried Esther, her patience exhausted.
"And if l's Mistress Diana, I'd take you for a
husband rather than waste any more time oi
yot "


BARNTABY, TE SAND IILLEA.
"   t =aks two to make a barg in," said Felix. more sonbrel.y there.  He Wished he eauki
'  ut there is ne hin  I wil ask: If I sigould measure thee distance to the ground. He Tun..
fil oWescape,Maam, can ayou zot run away 'bled about the room  for sowmhing to dropy
 ed I ,,e Y  e "'                     down, thinkng ,44t the time oqupied by its
irTe young man asked this with such a serio- fall would give a tolerable ide 'of' 4he space.
coti#Ie region, rJat .iana savedtier grsvity traversed. -He faund a e b , gd made the ex-.
7etreatlAg 0; her owvn                   periment, but with diferent results from those
b had oogrkte 9n. 4t struck in about two
seconds, and there was a slight fall afterward.
?U  T TH    INDW-              The hyog fell ypon a hua head, and thene4
When it wsp ar, 1 ab nt  oig1 t lights. to the ground. Flix heard a muttering be-
H     e ess cormm negative thgn p efre, an, uea and thoughtt de ha adro   d t   e
b  i  arnn '  ge  Felix iqnderstgpd Mhat upon a guard. 11e drew in his head, htrotsome-
4 e wa$ not to quetion him. It was evident that thng familiar in the tones made .in put is out
the .ne ro was being  t ehed. Ielix made io again,and Aisen. Sone oe said, *n a.sup-
t  d t inim      geve ln    friendly pressed way:
n Qds he weal out. Many others, more doubt"   GoIl. on, up ther I Throw down yer chairs
o   U PORinature,  oId have diatrustel'the and tables 1 P'r'aps you've got a be4stead you
T p     , u at'F l' ha nio dirust o'his }del- cggl spare., 'jrunble t right out I  iy head
iip't gardirg-sass, to be' serushed :"
At~ ~partition separated hin from his Fife.  The -gurpier was evlently speaking for his
4 '1a uoga  as drawn up against this partiton. own bearing; and to ent a  momentary feeling'
f a'll te seats in the room, . eliz selected that, of  ief.
under a vagrue ispreson tat the choice was  "Ther's s duried lot o' sneaks in this worl',
ylgaeeal-u        gt it   s $ ge, neverthe- ivbo won't sptan' up iud ght fs'r," )e went on;,.
less, that he listened to the niurrmur of.voies a  "tbut '4 father hit yp on the nod when you-eat
the nmxt room, as d was dis ait   because o1ki'."
lys could nut  ar # word intell Til. $st er' a . a nabf ?9" said Felix , sofcy.
ingue    h nmost   of tie'tine, and it was only  There was silence below.
occasionally tat he heard a response rom her  ",arnlby ?'
~istress.                                   "Yes'ir!" was the response. that came bani,
Young ladies," thouglit Felix, "oftep incur very soon.
ra t ris, to get a husband ; but this woman  "What's the trouble ?" asked Felix.
swi i   to hazard as much to get rid'of one."  "Nothin'  serious,"  answered  Barnaby..
. ma's vanity is a,eurious thing, and easily " Somebogly dropped a washatan' op siy head,
piqued.'  elix could not help feeling a little that's all!"
tiaton, bgt, 'yawning and ~tretebing him-  ' "A. washstand " repeated Felix, restraining
sef" at full length, 'ageeted lofty indifference. his satisfaction at seeing Bairnaby.
e even laughed, and said, aloud;            "From the third story," said Bernaby, grave-
"She needn't trouble lierself ! I wouldn't ly. "'iThe same is trying' to get a barth-tub
have lier if she was made of gold !"       through the winder to make a end of me I"
this was a strong assertion, and may well be  'Well, never ,m.d the bath-tub, i$arnaby I
doff ted'; for golden dolls have been married, I'm glad to hear your voice again," replied
and so have golden calves. A golden woman Felix. "-fow came you here ? and what are yeis
would receive more worship .than. the Aiyines  going to 4o i"
Venus I                                       "Thet's what I want to know. What you
$elix arose, and tried the locks of the doors. 'spect I nome fur,'" Fun?  No I Bxe'eise?
eareflly. It was a needless experiment, for he No . Was it gnytbing partickler?  No  I
knew that key and bolt were turned upon him  never knows the reason o' things, and don't.
ffithfuliy. He carried his investigations to the want ter.  I mont be in n safer place, p'r'ap l't
adjoining closet, without .encouraging results.  These words reached Felix in a low, half-com-
'ie g;iidow he prudently avoided, while the plaining murmur. They came from Bharnaby
room was lighted. Having a strong curiosity Cruise, his faithful attendant.
to look out, he extinguished the lamps, and as  "I scarcely know what to say to you," said,
quietly as possible lifted a sash. He could see Felix. "I suppose you understand the danger'
t little of the outer world. The night was as well as I? Speaking to you, as Ido now, is
obscure.' A haze hung over the plantation, that not the least part of the peril. But the hour.
concealed at 'first every object from view. By is late, and I hear no movement in this part of
and by, shapes same out of the gloom. Tents the house. 'You wish to lhelp me, and I wisth
game visible, looking gray and unreal; and, you could  I cannot get down to you, neithe,
pow and then, the pale, uncertain gleam  of can you get up to me. Fitch your voice very
teel, disappearing as soon as seen.        low, Bariaby. I am afraid you'll get a bayones
He cast his eyes downward, but shadow lay in your back. Really, it would Rot be 'honoa

]T AINABY, THEB -8A7flHILLEI.

W lame not to advise you to go away. Don't
ay.tler;word, but steal off as you came?'
,Try ie bed-cord,?' auggestied Barnaby.
' Uuelkily, it's a~ modern be4, with no
erdtanawered Felix.     ,
The consultation was carried on .ininflated
whispers, aibilated through their hands with ia
great expenditure oftbreath. The night Iein
Otil, favored ,the interehange. The;ianterise
was like two serpents hissing at each other.
ster, hearing- sounds, said ' fthe aind;was
"'41hcets LVsaid Barnaby, standing on his
ees to give his'whipper a"goad start. -
t'}Eb ?' Felix was dull
PTie 'em together," addedi3arnaby. f'Then
fasten.one end up there , and 'come down. If it
dn't reaeh the groun'. you can drap. -.en or
fifteen foot Won t hurt ye. A eat 'all fall )that
for and light' on her feet. You're smart's a
cat, aren't }e'"
Felix signified his disapproval of the cat
simile by a:strong. expletive.     '
"Where are the guards?" he asked.
" Wall, I reckon they're tending' :to their bs-
esis. One on 'em isright here, and don't seem
to ,be very jolly. My foot is on his echist, and
his legs 'pear' like to be tied. If he war to
move or aeak, p'r'aps a weepon would drap
onto him."
'If These must:be others near," said Felix. " i
expect to hear them every minute.'",
"' rThe highest one,'? answered Barnaby, "is
tund. . '
f You are a strange fellow, Barnaby. Are
you well armed ?"
".Got two arms, and that's enough for a chap
as is going' to git a honest livin'. 'say, Feix,
be you agoin it ?".
bNo,"m here, thinking about it.''
"'Wall, if you're going' to think about thet
long, you and i'll part. 'I' wouldn't give 'a
moufull o' bloo clay to go back to that yar big,
ditch 'thout ye. If ye  on't want me,-say so,
and I'll go and be a rotten Rebble."
- Be patient, good Barnaby," replied Felix,
perplexed.
" It don't make nary difference to me which
side I'm onto," continued Barnaby. I'll fight
by the day 'for one or t'other of 'em. Give 'me
my rations and put me into a garb, and I won't
look to see which flag I'm under. You may
lead me to battle blindfolded, if you've a mind
to. I don't keer to lose sight o' the sand-bills
though, nor the tuppentine trees, and I should
want u trifle o' bloo clay to keep me cho'rful."
Felix, giving little attention to these neason-
able observations, began to knot his bed-clothls
together. To the 'sheets he added a blanket to
the blanket, a counterpane; and believed that
the required-length was obtained. He put his
head from the window, and athed,:  '"-'
"Whate the distance, BamnsbyV'

S I'eplong atween jints, but you ken di.
I reckin."
Felti drew.hie -bed to the window, made tbo
eimsy rope fast to it; beast tie free end' ma
him, 4d it fell towards Barnaby,
S";Gan you rea'it ?"bissedf Felix.
' I'?ve got itiE asserted Barnaby
The   faster pulledop little on' the rod
but euold -nt ' e61 hi manan at'tlh other'
of i.
You are deoeivin mesad' Felix.
" Ien  et °tek t With the "erdse'?
Alngers,?? newered *Barnaby,  lways   'I
En era a arn,, al a
maie the'best of things,a nd nbt ovfr-eitd
abot 'the truth. 'CGComedo*at from thle tsI,
geheus,'se Joseph said , 'i breth'rig."t''
Felik threw otit his cap;' ;nd getting from the
window, feet fn'st'beg'an to descend. H Is
no sooner commenced the desdent than nl"%e Wi
doubt ofthe 'reliabiity of the knotting, 'Ad
imagined that at every Foot of the pas.ange
could detect a gradual yielding of the fasts '
n . he went down rapidly, but not witl'ts
n   e. Reaching the 'end of the 'dangling rc- ';
he alighted on Barnabi's shoulders ;anda dl +.
nlt part of -hi$'purjose' was aeom p sbed. i
found 'his faithful attendant standing'over"i
guard, whose ankles were tied togeth'wri
the strap of 'is canteeh, and who' seemeaitg
mnuch bodily fear.and discomfort.
" Which 'way now?" asked Felix.
" That's more'n I knows, as Phar'oh saod
when his Wife' asked bin whiin the qhildrin
Israel was coming' back."
" What will yon do with this fellow 9"eo
tinted Felix, pointing to the guard.
" I'll see,"'said Bitrnaby, 'coolly. Then :t
the' letter: 'I say, old feller, willtyou hed
string round youi- 'neck, or show us 'the wa
out of this yeri" Don't' make a outcry if'
want to keelsfrom sickness.?'
The mani raised himself to a sitting posture
and 'Felix, bending toward "him, reeogni
Absalom Wills.
'his yere's a strange business," mattered
Absalom,sullenly. "4unno what fei-runnig
away from."                            -T.n.
"'No grumblin', as the egecutioner said to
martyr when he was a sawin' him in two.' Kep
a civil tongue, and strike out for the Yn ee.
gunboats mighty suddint," said 'Barnaby.
"Be keiftd, you sand-hiller I"'retorted Absa.
Lom. "You gur une a blow to-night ' i
shan't forgit quite soon. If my mem'ry's Watte
a'swaller 'o' whisky, 'ou'd outerr iei oll
different colored clothes."
" The worse your mem'r    the safer your
head, said -Barnaby, with a  elligerint moe'
imenit. " ain't no' prejerdices o? color, din tb
white man said when hOwas hanged in cofigL
with a nigger"                  -    ;'''
' Yofiale'a desarterl" ej9ined Wills. "L0t
the Clonfederates get'old oyu,andl wrouldei

;!  '
;   '
,, I.


2tA fRNA3T 411E. SANDIIILLER.
be 3i your Federal brogans for:.the priea of a ) the ground I, Up and budge., Have common
plantation."                               sense, man, and step.-cautiously, fors I have ono
- The overseer leered fiercely atBarnaby..  wish to harm' you. I will really pass 'that
"-irry. is the word;' eidN 'Felix, uneasy. brandy to your credit. You 'shall not be kept
" We are in danger , every -moment. Do uot long from the vailed lady whom you seem to
trouble yourselft to raise an, 'argument,:or' to esteedn'so highly. I will commend you to her
start objections, ,but 'guide us : secretly and special care,  if ,you. like. . Husbands have over-
speedlily; from these premises. We .have. you, powering influence with'their wives. You may
Ielleye,, at en -advantage. We tare somewhat be like: Joseph in the-house of Pharaoh, on this
desperate, too. Escape from this plantation plantation."-
ats become ao essential-to. my happiness and  Barnaby Cruise handed Fenx apistol, whih
personal safety, that 'Idon't think I could'bear he cocked. Absalom was troubled. Never in
disappnintment a with ,Christian, patience.  If his life was he placed in a position so embar-
yo'p are moderately wise and tolerablygrudent, rasing. He could see no pleasant side to the
gI.th two. grains  feommon 'sense ,;inyour situation. A jest, it was not.' It is not an easy
knobby head, youwill accept'the situation with- thing 'for.a man to do that.which is entirely re-
eut nrmuring.: ,The thing is as simple as it pugnant to.him. Human inclinations are won-
can be. betrayy 'us, ' and you-,w'ill' not, live 'to derfully tennoious  : The: overseer looked at
enjoy-yoer treachery."   '         ,     : Ba'rndb', and he looked at Felix; turned this
:Th ese words, though whispered in' Absalom's wayf'and turned that, and: wished two persons
ears, hadsa powerful.influenee nn his disturbed were in a hotter place. He could not run, and
gid4. ,lie became quiteabject.            hexhad no stomach for submission.
w "1Tken't help myself," he whined, "you being'  Barnaby, who had- picked up the musket
two to ,one. -But yon .ough,tn't' to forgit the which Ahaalom had dropped: at the moment- of
handsome manner thet 'I treateil ye no, longer surprise:and capture, advanced the joint of the
agp nor last-night, 'het brandy was sich thet long ugly bayonet uncomnfortably-near his pris-
ye .Won't seldn,git it agin -.The itother :busi- owner's back, to admonish him that celerity was
ness, -don't: pretend .to edge; but it's my view needful,' a'nd that treachery would find instant
thet,you'd, better stay wher' you be,-and fallin punishment.: Outwardly scowling,' and inward-
love with your wife, which is, nice wife, and ia ly cursing, Wills began his forced guidance;
good wife, and one a man might be proud of white Barnaby kept even nace at' his heels and
which."   1 '                    '   " 'Felix at his side. Hewas in doubt. The doubt
"Let' my wife :alone d''muttered, Felix, in a did not.so much relate to' the matter of betray.
surly tone.                                al, as to the manner.  Leading them into a
,, ;,,No, Iwon'tI"' persisted .Absalom, perceiv- guard-tent, or upon a -solitary picket, would
in g that lie had toured Felix's.nerves at last. certainly be perilous; and to fall upon either of
",Ah en I see a man runnina'agin'hia, own in- these by accident might prove equally danger-
Vrist,; Ian't help speaking don't, though per'aps ons. To conduct the non-faith-keeping Yankee
hi iit a' proper time and .place. -Sigh beau, and the i'ecreant Sandhiiller beyond the Confed;
ty, -sich 'ecoknplishments,i sich eyes, "sich a crate lines; was not his intention, if ie could
mouth'and iminners, i'll-sw'arI never see !"' . possibly mislead them. But till an opportunity
"I'm",losing. pationce.1"c cried Felix,' losing offered, he could d'o nothing but walk on dog.
pudencealso, and seizing Absalom roughlyftly gedly,,yet exercising sufficient discretion to
the shoulders. "Speak'of my wife again, and avoid the more immediate' danger that threat-
1llthrottle-yu : 'lThiseinfernal delay wili:ruin ened 'hit. Knowing very well where the sev,
me. Untie him, Barnaby.. That's ,t. Now 'oral guards were posted-for he had assisted in
give me a weapon, if you have one to spare."  placing them--there was no great diflicultyin
,,'e'k  to Absalom, with more moderation, and leaving the' plantation. On two or more -oe-
half:inclined to smile at his own irritability :  casions, the. Confederate muskets were tempt.
"' As for the unknown woman you have spo- ingly near, bniu Felix and lparnaby were nearer,
ken of, I choose to leave her, and she, chooses and fear guided the footsteps of Absalom Wiils.
tt.have me, even at the somewhat heavy risk of;--
my-peck.: Confound it, man.! she proposed that          QXIAPTER VIL
1 should jump from :the., third-story window!  .      ,      Go.,
Ryo and mouth, indeed I Soft-hearted angels  Escaping from. a third-story window; knot.
That very window, that looks- no larger than, a ting bedclothes-together ; moving things gener-
boy's late up there in the distance.. My legs ally; dangling and brushing against the wall in
+puld, gave broken like -pipe-stems. Not con- the downward: passage; whispering above and
tevu ,with this, she kindly suggested, threuglt muttering below, are not matters likely to
her maid, the chimney-fine..nd thle, lightning- escape. attention, at: a place where there are
reds'; and, finally, not content with thiip, men- quick ears and anxious minds. Esther and' her,
tioned the drain. Think, of uei i a drain, or - mistress heard suspicious sounds, and were at a
dangling from a lightning-rod forty feet from;loes, at first, to account for them. Presently,

y.
xs


i3ARtNABY, fISA      HLER
he bat uon th1e real cause of' the  iisturine i   Cteceh'adu hz'ee
iw4 qpei'ed the shutter alitle. The iiiald id  Io~dI riiLi oIa
tesaw a dark oject swaying to add r'  a, utIcut~
the ,itdow; bnt~ LIO rrieLres  'te, edlutsee dozen.'  hIseI' tshtngs all to;ouct.
tiieeihgs coining uip to their eyrie thirougl~ te 'Ve~iIII ht~~  i~
"k i00ld think they was a ne t 4 ~   "             aigtnatebq
eti~sher, to spg her curls.        re~iin        hq~~     r
, l.wthey muttei "observed 'Died;  a~l~,h~gI
r~c ais4, muich above' a whispcr, x~ed  htaeLe       o~~l'
"Thiat's jyQU' husband's voi~ce," oalzvrd ~ ~ ~ ~~r~eI
_.   Esther.waa yoreinsnetig
"'Don't talk tq me of ray lhusban~d ".yetd  9qi
ihantu. " li'  Southern Crow we~s not 4e"~ ppsupsn'
h~was pironoane~d with prid1e an    ~    e~~ra nn      ~e
ujtitul rioti~or fi e 'ead.   ~I~~                 qgtw
'nears like I'don't'know inush bou. ~m Sept~~eIsi ft
stars antI crosses, Miss th'ina; but f tell ye htsJpe  qwrnoejt.
he's a right smrt1 gentewspI*Yankee ors o; '  a  eetrebakse
Federal or not; 4~ihtioji',invader or nt  u  a~ i~  qJ~  u
alv-steamer r Q ~t,; or , it 'not i'ou"pctofa      ai
isth'er was in p aiti~ve 9 loud, t t 4bysandiaa
oppose ,whaeve~' er m~tre .  atd say  to  ~~~r.4~    ~l  r
dt  a to te on     tbern ,etrpg~- "ht~d43i '~p,1~
wo',tobeyou for youir opmi,  e  qne'~Lhm      fdvi.
p i-diia ,curtly. -And yet, eo contra icryor  nfeP,'aD
peethe worlds ,of  the liuniheart, that  I.'p'.tobet.wzi
P9rrowseeIle was secretly "~lease~d at t~e pa~adyu  oel.lr.'t'~
pf 'ther unknown iusbiand. "Did yoxl nct~aadeesta   iso~alf'
that lhe was ei' 1th blooded ?  sed.' isoyan'ou  eItvi
~is'inOia  to speak with' auvereign nia tigy'
feeeln iA oeand manner -dilnotpr-"H      ned'haebnsoV
fectl'i uppoI't her. lie' heraycd wore itr
aLt thIanIshe wished.ge                  yysadDnaptlat)
khw, eMsI i             o ill's wviiter'a your'n. There's no more ~akoetigl
Hlood in l'im nor there Is in a unborn bay1 h  i'e  irh~4ponl
'mJ 'stonished ~hat your own eyes'Alion'tel  o  i4ai.
ye. His f1eeiianid  hands aren't bigger nr, 4wmn~io~d~i      tw
4ite-yar qld boy's.'bc ~~ twa                        op~    a
Esther elevated  her discriminating ns  o~l1d$tr lig   t~   it
"                                         lighty, andi was disposed to be rather  vi'yotrletin h?
1 ith her mistress.                      "'i yaege    , sid.ph~
"' Vou are a'windmil!" exclaimed the lte.lM Ii  vidin 1 oi4s
"TI'he wre~rst Puff o wind willun oiT~n.thn  u turn,  I hold hik
4h:c vulnie  rather be sciethingitTpyvef
iat t. 'You turn, and turn, and thereisnbtwy leeliol1e he
stopping you., Yeaterday, you reviled hm  nw  ~   s~l ~s ~j~
1'e was yejlow; h~e was ill bred ; he wan w-Wls  ~w  hyaehdfp
*adihe lvas a savage sop ewhatcliahzed.  i  hrIhr.,ti  ht~pl
ws"note ann to the ,ice taste of a -SoltenMsanty  oIyy  a~'
dam~sel. As for my own eyes, girl, which o  '  nlan   i aya h
spik' of so confidently, you know verb  ~  i  ih m~ t  fhg     w
that 1 did not once lgok at him."      we     intko    ~TUy
'"A Von flthhis pulsee" said Either.iserC awrineedt'e
shust ny eyes," said Dinias        ote~thlioit ~.
' But i oufon~itI ip iwrist.'. ~ttlia~epeso
' pt [ coliee4rated wmy sight, sirmplotom~" 'sWrrna~  ac~4a
" Ferlihpso 4dap see, a Pimhead 'QZLt          O1n   ~~L   1

e ia eomev r"
see, a inhtie~iI.
itit steem'
£here', a'4 .
li' to hter pl
.died.I Pii
ire ; Ana ,wh i
p4ow. P U~IwSS-
ts dowz
Lon' mah~e me
e .yetth'
, aad evined,
'apon. " T' T
~e or do a
10n4 e th'   hadow of
ong very weil,'
hie A4bsatom
View  y the
trance. Laws,
4,qt him Ylf
,' 4eIiSC to
ig itwoa~d be           'i
vlat, husbands
uar duty, when,
of sinlqinat
toot; 'opening1 ,
srnqWer,  s

tl


BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

'28

BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

expected, she went in with a light in her hand.  " Whip me, and I know what blood will flow!"
She 'saw the bed "drawn to the window, and added Esther., with glowing vehemence. ."Who
everything in 'disarray. Her mistress followed will it shame most'"'
her.                                           "Hush I" cried Diana; "no more Words.
"We was right," cried Esther. "Your new   You have been too much indulged. You must
busban'd has remade a 1-ope of the sheets and be sold."'
blankets, and lowered himself from the window,  "Sell me," retorted Esther, "and, the buyer
instead of jumuilg.  Aih! Miss' Diana, you'll shall have a'corpse!"
-verneveic s'e him again !"                   She clenched her hands, and stamped upon'
"I'm delighted,"said Diana ; but her face did the floor.
not express satisfaction.                     Diana'i elen'ted. Her' sternness melted. She
A.woman does not ;like to be undervalued. arose, kisspd Esther, and said.
'She imay safely be set above her value, but not  "Be calm, child.' You will never be whipped
belo'rit."  '                             or sold. I love you, and that ends it."
She said no more about Felix. She glanced   The wayward Esther was subdued in an in-
quietly at 'the evidences of his- exit, and" re  stant. ' She sank at Diana's feet, seized her hand,'
'tegned with downcast eyes to her chamber. pressed it to her lips, and consecrated it with
'The silk. mask lay on the table. She said to her tears.  There was a greater potency than
Esther:               '   .*'fear-a mightier power than menace.                 Esther,
Take it away. This farce is ended.'"     was ready to die for'Diana.
"Perhaps," answered Esther, with an obscure
meaning.                                                 CHAPTER     VIII.
Diana gave her an' extinguishing look.  .                A 14   GUiDR.
"You grow wise," she said.  ' 'On went Borrowscale's head-whipper, while
"'I'know when I see' a change," replied the Barnaby walked watchfully at his heels.  Bar-
girl, with a toss of the head..             naby' was naturally 'suspicious.  Di4rust was
"What change ?" demanded Diana.          born in him. Something more was born in him ';
"OhI1" retorted Esther, pei-tly, "'m not the suld that was Cunning. Cunning is an excellent
kind of a Wiidmill to know. 'If my betters is thing ; but it sometimes fails. Absalom Wills
sorry'for what they have done, it's not my place had cunning, wih' a' sufficient incentive to put
to let 'erin know'I know it."               it in action. Starting appimrently for the Yazoo
" I must send for Absalom Wills;" said Di- River, lie gradually changed his course ; but
naa, biting her lip.                         with such ,autiousness that neither Bnrnaby nor
"Better send for him that's gone," ,said Felix noticed it.
Esther, saucily.                              Benii'ing off toward the interior soon after be
"Educatimg a girl spoils her for a servant," left' the plantation, lie presently reached a re-
observed Diana, with a sudden assumption of gion broken into hill and dale, swell and safe,
dignity. "The tender mercies of Absalom are and thickly beset with:shrubbery, with occasion-
needed."                                    al groups of trees.  Absalom  was about to
She settled -back in her chair, looking ada- plunge into this labyrinth of foliage when Felix
mantine in her character. She thought herself commanded him to halt. He stopped with sullen
a very determined person. She believed she obedience.
-could lift herself above "the weakness of pity.  "Look you !" said Felix; "it .seems to me
In sultry Southern latitudes compassion is not that'the Federal gunboats should lie off yonder.
particularly needed, especially in the culture If I have any knowledge of the country, the land
of cotton and the management of slaves.    falls off in approaching the river, instead of
Interest stalks over petty emotions rough- rising, as it does in this direction.
evhod.                                         "It's all right," protested Absalom, growing
Diana entertained some fallacies about her exceedingly affable.  "Keop on through this
-own rigidness.' Esther arose with flaming scorn. yer bushes, and you'll strike the Yazoo in
" Have me whipped, and I'll throww myself twenty minutes."
'into the river '1 won't be gashed and slashed!  Brnaby shook his head.
Look at my skin !"                            " I allow," added the overseer, "that you
She displayed her'naked breast and arms.  don't want nothin' inure o' me, and I'll jest wake
" What bloodais it ?" she asked, impetuously. 'tracks t'other)way."
-- How came it there?  Whit have I to do with "Don't make no tracks yet,"said Barnaby,
it?  Is it not hot and hasty, like yours?"  " unless ye go bnck'ards.  We want to know
"Don'tV" said Diana, startled.            where we are afore we see the last o' your gray
" What shoulders are these for Absalom ?"  'shoddy jacket."
She turned her back to Diana, and let hem"  "I've kep' my word," answered Absalom,
dress drop a little.                       " and I'd thank ye to keep y'our'n."
"' i hall he ever touch them with his whip"  " Not quite so fast," said Felix. "You reach
"Aion't I" repeated her mistakes, with a shiver, a conclusion before you arrive at it. We are

not so sure of our whereabouts as you seem to
be. Go on till we see the river or the black
*mokeipes of the gunboats."
Muttering that there wa "No faith in Yan-
kees", Absalom went on with reluctant steps..
It was now morning. A faint blush was creep-,
ing up the eastern verge.  Their guide was si-
lent, and walked with an uncertain air. -"Stop-
ping anon on the crest of a swell, he pretended
to look aroundsupon the country with great in-
terest.
" What's-the matte: ?" asked the Sandhiller.
~ "Sorter turned round," answered Absalom,
with an awkward affectation of being puzzled.'
"The river oughter be out there, but durned if I
ken see it."                         . .
"It'll be lighter when old Blazer comes up,"
said Barnaby, pointing to the east.  " If you
don't see the chinbleys o' tliem Yankee cook-
stoves about that yertime o' day, you'll be like-
ly to see a cotton rope.  Cotton ropes is great
things for weak eyes, . They're a good 'eal used,
cotton ropes is, by your bi shwhackers and go-
rillas.  The commidore is a gwine fur to try
'em hisself. -"ev built a rope-walk down there
by the big ditch fur to mannyfactei''em. 'Bout
a quarter a mile long, the rope-walk is., Orders
from the kentry executeliwith neatness and dis-
patch.  Water-rats and bush-pirates hung at
short notice, and at reasonable rates."
The Saudhiller looked seriously at the ruddy
patch lying low in the east. He drew down the
corners of his mouth and eyes, and seemed to
fall naturally into a refreshing current of phil-
osophy, so suggestive were cotton ropes. Ab-
salom, however, was not a party to this benign
influence. The chief whipper in the house of
Borrowscale made a wry face; and if looks had
been hurtful, the young Sandhiller would have
been hurt. There was a ropy skeleton .in Ab-
salorm's cupboard. Skeletons will creep into
cupboards. Every family has one. Nothing
will put them down, go at them as you will, or
with what you will. They will crouch in their
dusty hiding places, and shake their crumbling
fingers at you.-'
Absalom's skeleton so worried him that 'he
mechanically paused to stab the Sindhiller with
his eyes, and to repeat the thrust again and
again.
" Go on," quoth Barnaby ; " as the annacon-
der said to the rabbit, when he was a swallerin'
of it. Don't be a fooling' by the way."
' The humorous Sandhiller pricked Mr. Wills
with his baypnet. Not maliciously ; but he
pricked hin. Not wickedly; but he pricked
him. Intention constitutes crime.; yet, in the
Lace of this admitted fact, Absalom had the bad
taste to drop some of the worst expletives ever
heard, and to turn on his good-natured perse-
cutor with hostile purpose. As nothing more
could be done, he made a vow of retaliation, and
shook the hand that sometimes shook the whip..

He made an uncalled-for amount of friction, too'
with his tobacco-stained teeth.
" Be kerful o' yer molars," advised Barnaby.
" Yee family would .hate. to hey yer lose 'eml
Beautiful, them corner snags be. Wouldn't
swap 'em with a Newfoundland, dog, would y6 ?"
,Absalom muttered, and paid what he would
do when he had Barnaby where he couldn'thelp
himself.
"Eyes like forks !" added the. Sandhill
jester, nodding  and  winking  meditatively.
Eyes like, forks with three .tines I Don't stab
'em at me again, if yer please. Never stood'
very strong on my legs, and I can't stand jab-.
bin' to'no great extent."
"W . e'll attend to your case one o' these yer'
days, young man," murmured the overseer,
writhing to avenge the indignities of tarnaby.
"You're nat'rally -ohleegin'," responded the
latter. "Put yer spokes in motion "
As human locomotion represents adliving
wheel, Barnaby's injunctionwas strictly in keep,
ing with the laws of science.
Absalom Wills' legs, and everybody else's
legs, are spikes. They are reallyand truly
spokes, and it might as well be spoken first as-
last.
"Roll on 1" added the youth, and the cold
touch of. steel put the ,overseer's individual
wheel in motion.
They had not proceeded much further, when'
Barnaby, becoming satisfied that they were go-
ing in the wrong direction, suggested that their
guide should be tied to a .cotton-wood, soundly
lashed, and left to whatever fate chance, might
bring.
While they were debating this matter, a man
on horseback emerged from the cover of some
trees just before them. This meetingwas evi,
deutly a surprise to both parties. The horse-
man halted, not quite certain what to do. The
Saundhiller presented his musket, and hailed him
with
' "Stop, stranger, or you'll hear a noise mighty
suddint. Freeze down where ye be 1"
This admonition had the effect to keep the
horseman motionless where he had first drawn
rein.
There was nothing military in his;dress or
appearance. -iHe was seemingly without arms,
and plainly clad in a slate-colored suit of coarse
and nondescript fabric. He wore on his head a
jockey-cap, which was particularly adapted to
riding among trees and obtrusive bushes. His
horse was a tide animal, dark, small-limbed, and
glossy. The rider sat easily, and rode well.
These observations were quickly made by
Felix. Absalom Wills made a hasty gesture.
" No signals' "cried Barnaby, giving his une
trusty guide assmart rap with his weapon.
"That low cunnin' o' your'n '1 git ye into
the next world 'fore. ye know it. Fust thing.
you know you'll be dead."


AIRNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

This hiluoddeeut appeared to' afford the
overseer egnsiderable relief.
" Wholiye f u, and what is yodmr business 2"
.dernanded Felir, addrsibng the stranger, ad
Advaneing a4s  '         .      .     .
.6" Thuose-arb q estides fomae tb ailt,.s I ami
a lawfdl inhabit at of this' section 'of the onu-
try, and  valauk idndbted'rigIt to' paesud4
way peaeeapily frpmn pqce to place," answer d
thl horgrhha, pl'Qinptly.
" That hieslittl to .9 ' ith it," 6badrved Fe-
lix.  'I idisti to 'hod whetli' you are d friehtd
d sn enety I"    .
"I am d1",id the' stranger, laughing. But
perceiving that the young m'an was not in a,
meood to be jested #ith, added  "That is vague,
I oonfee.,. Possibly I may be whatever you
wish to make me."
" An easy 'olitieal e ed," said Felix. " but
one X do not muati believe in."
" Your reed is parent," returned the
stranger, "if one mhay judge of your creed by
your colored "
" The Federal blue is pretty welt known to.
the people of this region, if I mistake not," re=-
turned Felix, invidiously. "But to make the,
least of a simple story, for .certain sufficient
OeetohA, I wish to reach the Yazoo River as soon
.$ possible' conveniet."
"I thin I can see the reasons," replied the
t orsemen, hrugghlg his shoulders. IsYou are
escapingg from the Confederates, and this tall,
tw-boned fellow is your guide."
" And a bad guide he is," responded Felix.
" We left Borrowneale'd big plantation three
hours ago," interposed Barnaby.
" Truly," said the horseman, "he has not led
you by the nearest route ; but yet you are on
the way, and in a fair way to reach it, too."'
" Too long on the way 1" grumbled the Sand-
hille'. Then whispered to _Felix, " This is as
rest a knave as the other."
" Do you know this man ?" asked Felix,
pointing at Absalom.
"Not in the least," replied the stranger. "Ele
wears the Confederate gray, I notice."
"It wasn't made for him, that suit wash't. He
erep' into it togratify his sneaking disposition
ad meddle wilh other folks' bniuidess. The
trowsis, ye see,.is half way t6 his kn~es and the'
acket is clean bust in the bank. Ileokd like
he big'toad that snapped skis With the small'
ua, and his own dad, didn't khow him when he
Comq 'home."
Thete personal, reiarks drew attention to
Absaiorn Wild, wih6s6 fiin-e was iii a high Fle-
giee cohical. He liadtieezed hiutaelf into
th6'integuraeits of-it d d*., There Was an ab7
an'd  t'p  ion of unjdekethd  i-ist and un-
trows&amp;6da l eU'shenieU like diubberly boy
gdwing out o   l  si onistioke-
The rrian in th '"' leoyed.hiui closely.
a Whieh way lies the tierf"' Fdlisin uired.

'You must bear more to the left," was the
ready rjoinlei.
"le who know so iwell iich way to go ds
guide us," said Feilt ; " so didnionut at once,
and lead the way on foot."
The young m' a directed tth niuizzle of hij
pistol' toward 'the horsem'ad, *ho had little
relish for the biat oder.
I can derve gou-better," he ah'wered, " de
li'6rde thni obL foot,for i aii 1 la6. Youi e I
am -unarmped."
"If you a  e  laise" said '41i  " I sliould
like to see your lImeness. As fori arm'si I see
none, it is true ; but you may have concealed
weapons on your person."
"I have heard," responded the rider, "that
you Nortlimen are very humane, and that your
humanity extends even to the negro. I con,
side myself much better than the negro, and
therefore more entitled to favor than those ab=
eurd Creatures that you are so fond of; and I
ani scarcely think you so eruel as to rob me of
mag horse, and make me hobble along on foote
like a maimed monkey. If I guide you, it must
be in saddle. Dismount me, and I swear I'll not
budge an mOh."
The man on the fine horsd niade this deelar.
tion so determinedly, that there Would be n6,
doubt of his intentions; ad Feli k thought it
better to humor' his wishes than ta cnry en11
his ,flyst purpose. So lie told hinm to go on and'
be very careful not to attempt to get away, or
to legd them into a trap. Barnaby did not
favor this arrangement, but *as forced to sub-
mit to the stronger will of his master.. Absa-
lom begged' earnestly to be permitted to leave
them, but the interested parties would by no
means listen to his petition, and he was obliged
to trudge on at the heels of the stranger's'horse.
Young Westerly was now more than ever on;
the alert, and kept the pistol, which Barnaby
had given him, cocked and ready for instant
nee.
" I suppose," said the horseman, looking back
over his shoulder, and taking the affair very
coolly, "that after I have guided you to the!
Federal lines, you will h.ot detain me ; but in {
gratitude for the service, give me a little iced
brandy, and send me back rejoicing. We suffer'
dreadfully for ice down here. The horrors of
war are unon us."
" It's a pity about thet," observed Barnaby.
" We'll hey a' few tons' set up to ye, if ye'll;
leave yer kerd with one or t'other on us., It's a
shame for a Christian crittur to go'thout his reg-
'lar ice, 'siecially in the sannier, when the nig-
ger babies melt in the sun. Ilowsotnever, if
you don't see the ice till you've got us out of
diffkilty, it's my 'pinion ye'll be dry as tiuder
afore ye drinks again."
"In good faith," asdwer'ed Felit; "when I
iee the gunboats'. you'shall tde the brandy and
ice. The melanoholydesitation of 'ice in your

in'hih e Cinfdder scf ought to attrae-tlid t;-t
ttikiig of plilhinthropists abroad. I think the
tY6t allUn' appeals might be isadt   ' ydil-
EA  isb dioisidl. Move on i tripelitter; ,ii
Mes fbbi tis isa dinlil's pied indeed."
' tter'shiot-'etn, and triit fo o  rvowil Wol-
MiMe  sense," iliutteed' Barhanl i  Cbeiio
see4ii eej hliiriaobody  orid sens 6'fli-er
did t"
Tli  advice, though not folldved, va  dt not
lest upon Felix. He secretly entertained a
higher opinion of the Sandhille''s judgment.
Ai utieinnesi grew upon hiro. A feeling of
dh1er gradually took possession of his mind,
and ie followed his new guide with anything
biit dfidence.
OfIaPTl1R IX.
The dsBi was now dutficiently 1ilfi above' tle
libhio  to render surrounding oeats clettrl$
visible' Felix keptliis eyes ttsrned continually
t6ard'the' point to which the stranger was con-
dnidti ng tlie  blt could see notbihg ialcdlatid,
to iitdle the relief the  t i tiver. wasii ar.
his allepicions benaith settled convictions, and
while'lie *d trying to fix upon afl"in of extri-
cation, the stranger's Horse began to rear and
plunge, and, behave badly. For this vicioni-
noia ther* was no apparent cause.
Barnaby, quite as observant as his master
pigcke'd up hit das, applied gentle friction to
his hedd, and itneted to know:
" What had bh'stt1 as the 'Gyptians said,
when they see the Red Sea  omin' at 'ema."
This question might probably have received
4 'tti'ig answer haud there been time, but just
then so idny events transpired simultaneously,
that 'eally there was no opportunity for re-
joinder.
Felix could never give a very coin edttd ac-
count of that wiclh  inndiately followed:
While he was watching the antics of the'sti-sh-
ger's horse, he heard a rush of feet; and the
clatter of weapons. He had a fleeting con-
seibudness'of seeing{Barnabyengaged in a strug-
gle with 'Some one; dad then he lost his identity
in a diidden Shock. lie fell to the eth, and
kne* no more Of what was passing around him.
.A dead, dill, black ensued ; taen e'dine dr sm
arid pharmCirs; idedherenes in4- vgaiies ;
snatches of delirium,4tild pain'. Foi aught he
realized of thit interval of darkness and suffer-
ing, it might hate lasted an hour or, i week.
When he at length lifted hit heavy eve-lids;
and felt. some feeble flashes of. normal life and
sense, thefirst object he saw was Barnaby
Cruise, sitting despondingly beside hlim. It
cot uiiI rot a little effort e'ven  to undefstnd
so much us this. Ild telbsed'-his eyes and felt
huisielf driftidt hd ok to that wotld of disjoint=
ed ira 'es' hie le lib ed juifsleft. roi-'d4
5iOinen E lt ligy fat' ndt'shaddidingjobied ot

thid nsaroiw lihe between  eason and delkid.
But h6 aid bean aand'r6ognifed Bui-nabf. Tha%
reebguitioa #d h'i' Nbrtr' Star, to' bring him
'bhoi to' tfite' a'tul iditlod. He i6dketdoe
nsme,' and thd efl-knoin faCe of 'hit faithul
fli rfd' gav liili &amp; fresh Mld C :ititesde.e lil
lu slsh blood'etdlr iwarmed'atid' iwed; futi
'fita  diklhRt. uf aar by had charged cone-
*i at:   istiface *s thihn'e'r and paler; fet
-there a Ilatnht humor in -his eyes, ahdjeete ia
the ,oriei'of his a6utli. Int Bartsby, fun
ndtrlly i6h'hed;'it a6 part and parcel of
the youth. TAka daway the comicl triek 6 his
+eyes, ad the lurking drollery of his lips and
there would 1e no  more Barniby. Ba naby
wat a Sndhliller. He was bordl because hs
couldn't helpit. He never kniew he *ak (;in
to be borii. Nobody ever asked him iwhetheir
lieh ioi1'd d born  or which se± of the' huidA
fithily hewould lie to'rtpesesit. 'In the Ti.at-
ter of hid oWn existence, he had nio voie. The
wholk thing, c'-far as he was concerned, ha
witliodt'hiis wish or assent. ° HHdid not in an6
naisi det~tilide the' inliiki'veldeity of hf
life.. I  *as bdrn-ie li ad 'adspitio-.ikse
ikda distike--ippetitettsud piatbiont--&amp;nd that
Wa a1l he knew of 1a teo    h aout it. He
dropped frot the internal tree like iip3pip=
pill; lie fell u'pon a situdhl. The ssnaliill
*ai cast up by n' inundhtioz of the' Missiesip
pi. There are many enadhills in ithe South,
and manyfBarnabys, This p14idl1z' asandhill
rendered imnmoi-tl bf the birth of Barfaby
was situated in the regida of the Yazoo' thirty
milei frot th'  Misisesipi, a birds fly. o
was i genin- leH widiS all exaggeiated type of
hid class. His indther was a dipper, and his
father as a clipper. His mother dipped snuff,
Siid his father Clipjped game-dooks and hor-es
This wa's a distin'guished origin.
Barnabf was sprtive in his character. Bar-
naby kept game-cocks; his father kept ga  e-
dioiok; all his brothers kept a few gamecocks.
HIS sisters reared game-chickens, which fought
wickedly at A week old. The spirit of the cock-
pit was upon him ; and he prophesied vietoiIs
and defeAts. He fitted steel gaffs, and could
crow hiinSself. He was mighty in the slang of
the fight. He was thought to be a wit' and a
wag il'snndhill circles. He ate blue cTay when
he wasi a child. He picked the blue clay out of
the crevices of the paternal eabin- before' he
could riow alone.' His education  as -riot ieg-
lectCd, because he attended to it himself; hit
teacher were worthless white nen and vaga-
bond blacks, aad' he gi-aduated in 'the' oypress
swamps, aioscopperheads and  oung alli-
gators. . e could talk a's- *ell as ah' sandhil-
[ei' of his aeqtiaintahe.' He "inver particalarl
audied' elegnce   df expreson.  The cant
phrneOS that he Could ndt mouthiglibly, Would
scarcely repay the trouble' of knowing. His
ohif edipioyeiit had Sb t to attend to his so.

BARNABY, THE SANDrILLER".


BARNABY, THE ,SANDI1ILLER.

vey of coeke; to eat a little; to eat some more
when he could get it ; to-eat again as' soon as
poesile ; to go out.and loll in the sun ; to go
outpresently and loll in the sun some more ; to
sing and whistle ; to whistle and sing; to hunt
in the pine woods, ,and fish in the streams ; o
,sleep ;E tou sleep anywhere whet;sleepy,.within
doors or without. He was abstemious inhis hab-
its-because the.bread-and-;ittir'juestion .as
one of terrible seriousness at home. . l rega'nd'
butter was a myth most, ,f the time, under,tie
paternal rafters.. n the matter of :l0hing
Barnaby had been, a cheap' boy. It' eot Lis
father ex ct1y thirty-seven and a half cents for'
the petion ofhsis first out-fit. After hehlid shed
that memorable garment-his dress 'was.a unit
'at; that time,, and .reached 'to his knegs--he'
shifted, for himself:,he shifted for,,hiwtself.
then and thenceforth. He wore what he coiild'
come at, and asked no questions. 'There Wass
always a meagreness of drapery somynewkre,
abput his person,-, and in .his, more Juvenile'
exispnge, he derived much, heat,and dcoin-
fort f4orn..the ,hpt-.sand. ' early learned to,
burrow ;in,'the sand; it was sometimesjace4,,
and trowsers, anddinner. Blue clay wasa Les-
sing when the larder was .low. Yellow  nuff,,
too, proved a 'benefaction to. Barnabv. He be-
gan to dip snuff before .he had any teth tQdip
it to. But that was an experiment that cost
him areteling. At five, yeai's he could chew
snuff and swear; swear distinctly and vith dis-
cretion. His father, who had seen him  but a
few times, began ,to notice hirm after that, and
was able, after a few failures,.tiddistinguish him
from the rest of his brood, :remarkable gifts
do attract attention. When lie, had lived ten
summers and nine winters, and yad' whipped
his elderbrother in a rough-and tumble engage-
ment, his thoughtful parent gave him a pair of
red-breasted games, and he went regularly into
the legitimate business of breeding'belligerents.
It was true that the 'cockwas a retiied cripple,
and the hen an ancient dame, but the progeny
of this couple in due time' became .numerous
and famous, and won many victories. Nearly
all of Barnaby's dimes came of coal-fights.
On several occasions he had, won considerable
sums, which he scattered 'ith lavish hand. He
was not niggardly. He would have made chari-
table distributions among the poor, but he knew,
of xo, persons that needed anything.  Members
of his own family seemed to be doing; well'
enough. according to his appreciation of life ;
and wanted neither compassion nor benevo-
lence. ,'le supposed 'that his naked brothers
and sisters were treading the coinro thorough-
fare of humanity, and that the gi'eatworld with-
out had fallen into' the same track. Where
there is nothing broken there', is thing }o
mend, Barnaby ,didn'tfeel the necssity of
mending even his manners.
Four months previously, Barnaby had a sud-

den disappearance. He was absent ,seven day.
and two hours ; the last two hours encroaching
on .the night. He returned in a Confederate
suit. To' look at, he was Confederate frora
liead to heel..' The.Sandhiller cast these gar-.
meats. His Confederate slough was stowed
away in some unknown place.     The young
Sandhiljer vanished again. He was gone one
month and' some oddl minutes; but no matter
aboitt the minutes. We -ought to be very par-
ticular alout time when speal4ug of important
events, and this was an important event.to the
-eipper's sen:lecame backto his'natal sands
in Lincoln blue. Lincol hie is Federal blue,
arid it's a good color. Buroaby's kith and kin
were astonished one w hole da, by the spectacle
of their relative in martial array,'and in the
National colors.- l'e7,had a bayonet and a pis.
tol. The bayonet .was an old-fashioned one,
4nd hung in along,'slim sheath, at-his left side,
or rather at tihe left aide of his back. The pie-
tol was a terrible thing, and'one of the wondera
of the ,world to All the Sandhillers whog'.bheld
it. It "eould actually be fired six times with.
'loading put once; that is, it wpuld shoot that
nuniber of tides-when it went off. Barnaby.
offered to shoot it tin biggin froi his youngest
brother's' head, at'the' distance-of'thirty paces
-but his'brother wouldn't stand.
"One' fact' was,' apparent : the clipper's son,
and the dipper's son had enlisted in the Con-
federate service. That was one fact, and the
first; but it was not so startling in its eharac.
ter as fact number two, which was that this pre..
cocious offspring had also enlisted in the Na.
tional Army! He had, crossed thirty miles of
Yazoo swamp, and cast 'his lot with the Fed-
erals under Grant. He stood before them a de-
serter of an aggravated type. He received
some abuse.  his mother was ashamed of his
degeneracy, arid ordered him out of the parental
hut ; but his father, of a more practical turn,
eyed his good clothes in 'an abstracted manner,
and there, is no doubt but he would have ab-
stracted the clothes likewise, if he had had an
opportunity. Nevertheless; Mr. Cruise was a
champion of the.Southern Cross, and a noisy
cockpit politician. Yet he admitted to Mrs.
Cruise, privately, that it was not a bad thing to
represent both sides of the question in his fam-
ily, as he intended 'that his other boys should"
fight under the banners of King Cotton. Bar--
naby remained at - home twenty-four hours,.
which was long enough for his safety. Finding:
the neighborhood getting rather hot with Se-
cession zeal, he said :
"lHe 2;ekoned he'd make tracks fur them yer
big ditches."
T'he truth was, that after enrollment in the
Federal Army, he had been taken into the serv-
ice of Felix Westerly, to whom in a short time
he became verynuch attached  'This was the
historyof Barnaby. ', brief history, but mo-

Ur
ci
z
in
w

yrr


j l ADTA1rY, TlE S3AI tLEl~                 8

rsaentons.-to himself. One, mans life is-the
aarne as aut'ther's ;few-so 'miserable 'as-:not '.o
eesteam it'precioue. 'Felt -ihen throwaway their'
'bodies,. thughsomle-thi ow away their-aouls-'or
t least se1tilhemveryoiheap. Thereareimany:
seheafp msuls }and expensivee 'bodies. 'Bodies,.
being seen and felt, have the advantage ofsouls,'
-whIcht ehn'ndither 'be seen nor handled,{ and on,
raceoint lof their- longmabsenee--from Uinan per-
septions have become exceedingly-mythlot.
But we -wish simply -to- say, that 'Barnab'y
usaved'his' neek' from the halter by-flight, -and'
had been to Felix like Sam Weller to-Mr.'Piic-
swick.. -He badi'faithfnlly followed his footsteps,
and dispensed drollery and laughter wherever,
be t went.- The present dangers were -not the
first he had incurred for Felix. Onde -he had
dragged '-him from' the muddy waters of the
I-MIssiesiesippi, where-he was-likely to drown, and
onee- he had, saved him from a -Coufederate am-
abuaeade.
Coming out of thick horrors, and 'painful
fancies, weak, -weary,, ad woode iug, it as a
p lesdre for him tofind"Ba-rnaby watching over
his 'pillw. He -contemplated -in a few mo-
iments without speaking,'-which interval 'of-si-
lence we- have- improved in doing some jtisice
to a character essential to -the interest ' of our
story, and who has too long been in the back-
ground. When Felix-at length , attempted to
address his -'attendant, -a husky murmur only
escaped his lips.
Barnaby, lieaing-; a dry hissing, 'peited a tin
}cup'and a l aige' iron spoon, aied went at him
-with some-kind offluid, which he spooned into
his master's mouth with such rapidity -and seal,
that he came near strangling him. Felix was
forced to seize -the mischievous implement with
both-hands, to -stay the tide - of -moisture that
threatened to-stop his breath ; as the one need-
ed to becoming out- while the other was going
in, and -air and water cannot, occupy'the same
place at thesame time. He clutched the spoon
- like a'man in the throes of hydrophobia. Bar-
--naby .tried the -soothing ' system. He tried to
unelinch his fingers, and recover possession 'of
-the instrument of medication, but his patient,
- exerted mqre'strength 'than'he had expected.
" Let go!l" said Barnaby, gently. " Lets-go,
please I as-Torlah -said to the whale."
Felix swallowed a 'mouthful of detestable
.-mixture, caught his breath -with a 'gasp,- and
threw the'spoon across the room.
"-None o' that" remonstrated Bardaby.
"You've throwed things 'enough for the -last
two or:three days."
Felix'asked-where 'he -was, in a faint voice.,
-Dsnahy, thinking himstill delirious, answered
"'Never ydu keer'*Wher''ye -be, old boy. You
dagtlli-and-in hatwht'the doctorsays." -'
"'"iow long-have-I been-ill'" 'demanded Fe.
lix, his eyes wandering about-the room. '

" Hullo !" exelaimed= Barnaby, "hoven't-got
yer senses-hey ye?"
" Yes,",.saidFelix.
"D o ye !know tue?" etied-the Sandhiller; in-
-credukusly,-stretching 'hisl long' nedk forWard,
the better 'to show his face.
"5b wouldd require a greater effort' thanit'ai
capable pf making nt to-aor fou,"' answered
Westerlyismifiag.
"-Hooray "'-shouted 'Barnaby,- kicking 'ove
'aehair; kand theny leTerowealike his '-feverlt.
Eat- Derby. He flapped his Wings, too, and
capered'like a gamey fowl. -Felix'began to6be
alarmed for the intellect of his satellite.
" Won't -you be-quiet," !added 'Felix. "'You
make my- head. ache with yoursnise. -'I want
'to-know all about this matter. The last1I-re-
member,'-I "waswalking quietlysat'the heels -af
one Absalom Wills, and just ahead of me-Wass
borse Witha inan on him ;,- noWI fi nd myself in
bed, on'my-back,'deadfwy weak and unekled
in- ray mind."
"Thet's a feet !" responded-Barnaby,-still'an-
-able to-tepress signs-of datlsfaectibn. "-Ybn"ve
-been'jest 'about ,as unsettled in :yer mindss
ever : a, secret agent Was. There's nothit',-in
this yer lower world thet ye -hev't -sidd and
$dde. You've, behaved shoekin' a'fde the gon
lady, Sir"i
" The -young lady go -to-the -lgsl" -re-
torted Felix, beginning fiercely and ending
more mildly.
" Be-keerful,"'said Barnaby,'seriously. "min
not gwine to stan' much agin her."
" Come," answered Felix, impatiently, "'ou
-are darker than the Delphian oracles. You
may let the young ladies alone."
" No, I won't I"-said Barnaby, stoutly.
" See if you can answer me a -siraple'
tion."
Felix lifted himself very trifle ont his-elbow,
but hishead fell 'back very cloddish to the pil-
slow. He had the strength of an'infant,-though
his will was stranger.
" On my o*n heels'"or 'With steels'?" guth
Barnaby. "Let 'em 'estrike'l"
This was 'a cook-pit metaphor. 'It 'meant:
Try me.
"'Don't make me repeat, fer-it's an 'effdrt-to
talk. 'Hw. long?  Where? 'Whom'?"
The- Sandhiller felt that his 'intelligeee , as
-well as his memory was appealed; to.
"Keep quiet!"--'an admonition not m idlh
needed-"I ll make everything straight as 'a
'st-ing.' You be 'pasient, eand don't -throw
things. I know what 'a !gent'means, When 'he
finds himself -sorlewher'band don't know'hoW-he
got other . I've been amongg folks, I hev. 'Hear
me. Come'now, didn't go-fur- to be ketehy in
yer disposition. The feets is this. -You' as
attadkle'd. I:was ttaoklld. "We -was-attakledd
to ance by'-inddviduails -to us  klvndn,j-bet
'which is"ja 't~le sane as if we'd kunwn 'asi.

S

1,'

,85


BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

86

BARNABY, TIlE SANDTILLER.

We was led among 'em by thet yer stranger. Coifederate surgeon cut it out. And it wasn't
They come at us of a suddint. I stabbed Bor- exactly a cannon-shot nuttier ; but 'twas a,
rowscale's overseer in the back, and knocked swivel-shot, They hed the swivels posted on a.
down ten or a dozen on 'em as soon as I could eminence, clost by. I know'd what 'twas well
.envenient. But ye see 'twasn't no'-good to well enough, but the doctor said 'twas a Minis
knock 'em down; as soon as I knocked 'em ball. - I shell keep it as a momentum o' the.
down they jumped up again and pitched in. battle."
By the time I had killed eighteen or twenty,  "Momentum.l" muttered Felix to himself.
you was stunded. The chap in the jockey cap  "Shell send it home to my perrents," con-
sot-on his hoss and- looked on, solemn as a set- tinted Barnaby.
tied ,minister. He didn't trouble hisself no '-Well, you ha aren't told much yet," sighed.
:more about the matter than if a boy hed been Westerly-." except lies," he added  in  an
killin' musketers, or robbin' a bumble-bee's undertone. "I'm at a loss now to know what,
nest."                                     happened."
" Well?" interrupted Felix, nervously.     " The gorillas happened. The stranger was
Barnaby liked long stories, and his modesty a gorilla hisself."
never prevented him from mentioning his own  "But why do they treat n s so well if they
exploits. Modesty stands in the way of many are guerrillas ?"
people.                                      " 'Spect; there's reason, for it, but I ain't
"A covey can't fight always," resumed the obliged to know 'em. We was brought to this
youth. "A feller '11 get tired o' slaughter arter house, and you, bein' too much hurt to run
a while. My eyes got blinded, and in a few away, was left here, to get well or die, as it
minutes I was nothin' but a gore."         might turn out.".
At this climax the Sandhiller paused. He  "And the lady ?" asked Felix.
frowned slightly, looked deprecatingly at his " The gel," answered the Sandhiller, is a
master, and with an eloquent thrusting out of mystery. But she's the handsomest bit o' wom-
the chin, added :                          anhood I ever sot my eyes on."
"What can a feller do when when he's a    ."His she seen me often ?" resumed Felix,
gore?"                                   .,with increasing interest.
Felix made a despairing gesture with a pale  '1lnaily,' was the response.
hand.                                        "When she comes in again don't leave me
" I ken't, and you ken't, and nobody ken't," alone with her," said Felix, dismally.
resumed the Sandhiller, letting himself down Barnaby lifted his eyebrows, looked -inquir.
from his climax. " Of course, I was tooken." ingly at the young man, and muttered to him-
" What happened then ?"                :self: "Not leave him alone with her ! A odd
"You was tooken up, in a ngighty bad state, Goverumint agent that ! Durned if his head
and broughthlere. That was four days ago."  is right yet."
"Four days ago I" repeated Felix. "That   So impressed was Barnaby with his last re-
seems incredible. Where am I hurt?"        mark, that he sat down and watched Felix by
" Should think ye'd oughter know thet yer- stealth, a long time. The latter, wearied with
self. You got a blow on the head. to begin talking, settled quietly into his pillow, and sobn
with, and a heap .o' other hurts to end with. dropped into a gentle slumber. He slept
There's a flesh wound in yer leg, a little stab in calmly now. The thread of his restless dreams
yer side, a cut across yer shoulder, a gash un- was broken. No longer walked he in the world of
der yer ear, a fracture o' the arm, and a dozen Fantasia. He wandered in the mid region where
other diffikilties not worth mentionin'. Be out there is peace, when the fever of the blood has
in a few days, now ye got yer head ag'in."  cooled. If he started occasionally with a gasp,
Felix smiled, and began to feel for his wounds, it was because vitality had glow, and motion
but with not' as much success as might have was needed to keep the living machine in action.
been expected from Barnaby's description.  Barnaby sat by him silently.- Now and then
"Needn't be a lookin' for'em," said Barnaby. he softly touched the sleeper's wrist, to see
"Six or eight on 'em  closed up yesterday. what story the heart was telling. The Sand-
Thet she-doctor o' your'n is fits on wounds. I hiller had a streak of tenderness. Humor and
could almost see ye improve under he' hands. kindness are apt to go hand in hand.  t's sel-
Ther's some'at healin' in her eyes; and when dom they part company for long. Woman-
she smiles, sickness scatters like p'ison. I've natures are often found in masculine shells.
wanted to be sick in yer place, rether most o' The human husk is not of much account, be it
the time."                               ' plain or comely, and gentleness has no sex.
" You look pale and sick at any rate," Fe- Barnaby had a large, rough hand ; but 'twas
lix observed.                        '     small enough and smooth enough to soothe the
"I was out o' my bias a day or two, on ac- sleeper. There is comfort in a friendly hand;
count o' a ball thet lodged slightually in the and Felix, though slumbering, felt its all-sop
calf o' my left leg. 'Twas a cannon-ball; a quering magnetism..

CH APTER X.
THE NURSE.
Turned the door noiselessly on its hinges,
end entered a lady. The lady was young; the
lady was fair. We cannot describe her to order.
Beautiful women cannot be displayed on liter-
ary counters item by item. There are lovable
things that have no name. A cast of the eye
or a turn of the head may steal one's heart.
This young woman had: one head of brown
hair, one white forehead, two arched and pen-
ciled brows, two bright and dangerous eyes, one
straight and comely nose, one pet mouth, two
carmine cheeks, and a dainty chin. - To these
treasures add a pair of round white arms, kiss-
able hands, and a charming figure.
As she gathered up the skirts of her dress
and softly approached Barnaby, a marvelously
small foot crept out.
Barnaby arose with as much confusion as he
was capable of manifesting. Beauty was apt to
flurry the young Sandhiller; it was something
lie was not used to. He supposed that if there
were any angels they looked like this lovely
creature, who had suddenly appeared to nurse
and care for Felix. He beheld her daily with
growing reverence. She was superior to any
being his simple eyes had seen. During the,
delirium of Felix he *ondered that her touch
had not wrought a mien ele, and restored him to
instant coherency. Ie scarcely knew whether
she dropped from the clouds or was the proper
divinity of the house. The colored servants
called her Miss Anna ; and that was all he knew
of her. During her visit to the sick man, lie
had done little more than to stare at her in a
mute and deferential way. It was some time be-
fore he ventured to talk in her presence; but by-
and-by, finding her gracious and affable, lie be-
gan to display his, peculiar qualities. In mov-
ing, it chanced that Barnaby overthrew a chair
and made a clattering that awakened Felix.
The Sandhiller was prone to upset things when
Miss Anna was about. He had dropped glasses
and cups in taking them from her hand; for lie
never troubled himself to look at what he was
receiving, but at the person who was giving.
More than once this flattering attention had
'brought blushes to her cheeks and smiles to
her lips.
But to return to the accident of the chair;
it caused Felix to lift his slumberous lids a
little, just enough to see the advancing figure.
For a moment he experienced a flash of un-
certainty and doubt-a wave from the recent
terror and darkness. But this was of short con-
tinuance. le mentally poised himself shut out
the vision an instant, and then returned to it
with more consistency of deliberation. He had
sense enough to be hypocritical. A man can
be hypocritical when he is very weak. Indeed
hypocrisy can be practiced to the very last.
Ale kept his eyes more than half closed, but

the ungrateful one saw his benefactress from'
her brows to the tip of her slippers. He saw
too much. He had professed to scorn the at-
tractious of the sex, and his heart had never
been touched by the glamour of woman. Young
men, like the leaves, have their time to fal,
and love,,like death, has all seasons for its
own. Felix was likely to fall, if lie looked-
and he looked. Millers will fly into the candle.
He was flying into the candle, but did not
know it.
She stood by the bedside ; she bent over him;
she touched his forehead with, the tips of her
fingers. That made a sensation, but not much.
He could not see her now-the valves of his
eyes shut her out. Hypocrisy is very prudent,
and. sometimes baffles itself., He muttered,
moved his, head, and opened his eyes in a wan.
dering way. They met those above him and
over him, and his pale face flushed. There was
a new and- strange flut'ering within him. He
attributed it to weakness--weakness of the heart,
which, sinceEve, has had a trick of being sur-
prised. Felix made a groan, which was half
sigh and half murmurs, and all deceitful. The
fair nurse passed her palm to his brow and
said :
" Poor fellow I"
Felix never heard such a "poor- fellow!" in
his life. Ile would like to have been poor fel-
lowed all lay. He accounted for this effect by
his' mother; because he had a mother, and she
brought back the idea of his mother. Dissatis-
fied with this, presently, he used his sister in
the same way; and between them both was sure
the riddle was read.
"lHe wanders yet, don't lie Barnaby ?"  She
was speaking again, and Felix expected to be
unmasked.
"lHe hasn't left the room," said Barnaby.
I mean wandering in his mind," explained
the pretty nurse.
" Mentually, Miss, he's straight as a string,"
affirmed Barnaby.
"Is lie rational ?"
" He's had no rashuns, Miss, but he's spoke,
and opened his eyes as bright as ever."
The white-fingered nurse stepped back from
the bed a little, and looked suspiciously at her
patient."
"lIe's asleep, or playing' 'possum, Miss; I
dunno which," responded Barnaby.
"Oh l" exclaimed the lady, coloring.
" Ie's terrible tricky, Mem," added the in-
genuous Barnaby.
Felix felt his face tingling, and wished the
Sandhiller buried in his native sandhill.
" The monsterI" murmured Miss Anna, with
something between a smile and a frown. "He
grows worse as soon as he grows better. Are
you sure, Barnaby, that he. really knew any.
thing ?'
" Bet my life on it, Miss!" said Barnabys

0

1

37


38K                        BARKABY, THE. SANDHTJL'R.
confidently. " He roused upof assuddint  and I  " You have been raving dreadfully, Sir !" sai4
askeddvbere.he were, and how.he come fur to Anna, demurely. "low do you feel now ?"
acme here. I told himthe wholestory, but his  " Beg yotgr pardon, Madam," staminered. F4
iatelleeks weren't so strong, a sit'was,,and I lied lix. " I would not have raved'evenin my-sleep
tputd itverylain to him."          .   had I k nown, you were present.  My.Barnaby.
Barnaby nodded veryoomplacently, thinking informs, me that f am much indebted to a cer.
how plainlyIhe had put it to him.          tam lady for -careful nursing and attention. Be.
Misis-Anna's fabe .glowed, but the. Sandhiller lieviug you to be that lady, accept mygrateful,
didn'tknow whetherlit- was fur pleasure or for .thank ""
some otheriemQtion.  He h d an-idea that she., " Cdunt me in on that!" said Barnaby.-
could blush at any time ; tlat she could be as  " You haye .had a serious illness,. Sir," ob.
redas.carmineor' as-white.as ;ebalki; that slc served the lady  "'We ,quite despaired of you:
couldeontrol her blood as she could herapeecht at onetime. .Your intellect has cleared away.
But maiden-blood is..miaschievous; -it will not of a sudden."
go qnietly-on its way,; it will be making sensa-  Sheapproached him again, and smoothed his
tons..,                                    pillow while speaking. That action gavehim
"Finally, I tome to you, Miss," added Barr a good chance to see her.  His heart began to
sbe.e        h.a"                          relent toward woman, especiallythis particular,
" indeedR! 'what dia ;he ,do then ?"     woman.
She spoke carelessly..                    There is a conceit in young men that operates
"He went 'to sleep, Mem."                greatly to their disadvantage, and which is not
"Happy' youthI"- said Anna; somewhat easily got rid of., In love-matters, this conceit:
iqued.                                    often assumes a particularly offensive form, It
"Felix !" said Barniby ; "here's yer, doe. leads the subject to the belief that he is born to
tor., Better be sayii'sunthin'."          a loftyrdestiny, and that very few, of thesex.
Theyoung manrubbed 'his eyes,:and.assumed have the-strength of wing to soar with such an-
the appearance of waking suddenly. To sustain- eagle as himself. The pretty formal and faces;
his first sin, lie threw in some military-wicked- that approach him should come only-to do hiie
e'ss, by way 'of aberration. '             homage. If |he notices a fair maiden, it 'is iot.
" Hurry. up the men, Colonel1; Throw out with serious interest, but with masculine eon-
soe skirmishers,on the left."           deseension. There is a mightiness in young fel.
Anna arched, her neck, and: was-not going to lows that gets as nearito folly as it can without'
receive -anything that was counterfeit. She was crowding; and, which seeks various avenues of,
sharpenough for Felix.  He could not quite expression.
match.eliem inacuteness. The dissembler raised  Felixhad some of this mightiness; but it reel-.
himself in bed, and flourishingan imaginary ed andistaggered under the glances of Anna-..
sword on an imaginary field of battle, cried : -' under the. sunlight of Anna.  Some personala
"Follow. me, boys I" then sagk, back to his bring light, others bring dark ness; Anna brought:
pillow, with some fear of the maiden Anna upon light. Felix felt a.superior presence.  His su-.
him.                                       premacy was silently, disputed'- by another
"Give him: some of the mixture, Barnaby,' power ; and lie was yielding ground, and:being'
said Anna, in an apocryphal frame of mind.  pushed from his mountain of conceit. The sov-
Barnaby picked up the- iron spoon, and col- ereiguty of his nurse gave himia wholesome hu-
lared the tin cup.                         mility. His recent deception cheapened him a-.
"IIave you been feeding him with that!" little, and lie dared.not look directly into Anna's~
asked the nurse, with a comical look.     eyes.
"He's broke everything else all to smash,  "Yes," lie mumbled, in response to her last.
Mem! but he can't break these yer.  He does remark. "My head cleared off suddenly."
struggle some when I put thet in hismouth."  Thinkingthis would not quite do, he added
He held up the mighty spoon."            what he thought was always welcome to a pretty
"-I should think' he might!" said-Anna, bit- ty-womau-a compliment:
inig her lips.                               "our coming drove back the clouds, I must'
hFelix, creeping surreptitiously from the out- believe."
er corner of his right eye, and seeing the ex-  "With sense comes nonsense," thought Anna,
pression on her face, gave up the deception, but she did not say it.  She did push, up her.
smothered a laugh, and looked about him natur- white shoulders in a little shudder of contempt.
ally.  There was sanity in his eyes ; in Anna's She asked, close upon this action :
there wasdoubt.  Hers were very clear and  "Do you feel as if you could eat anything,-
deep-; one. could look into them as into the sea. Sir ?"-
Felix Westerly had a vast store of assurace, In asking this, she looked 'straight over hisw
bpt not enough to keep him from showing guilt. compliment.
Barnaby freighted the spoon; the patient  ."I really. do not know,"-answered Felx.
pushed it from him in disgust.             speaking the truth. 4' Why-should I eat?'

BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER. -s

have been- thinking of more important matters
.appetite,"
True; you.were leading armies just now I"
retorted Anua -invidiously.
"-Verylikely," returned Felix, obdurately.
" Theminduever rests."
Then, to change the, subject :
etBarnaby says I have about a dozen wounds,
but ' have not yet discovered them."
"As many s that," said Barnaby. "Five or
six on 'em-sel deed up yesterday; Isee 'em van-
ishunder her fingers, like the balls o' a juggler,
which disappear o' a suddint, and ye ken't tell
whier' they're gone. Per'aps," he added, with-
a .thoughtful' shake of the head, "you won't
bsJieve it, but PIl hold up my hand to't in a
eourto-ejestiec."
This, though a"whopper, was very gallsat in
Anna' rather ,liked -ity and gave him.a little'
smile of her pet mouth.
A/magician 1" laughed Felix,  "I wonder,
ifl am'seriously hurt ?"'
" Pears like'that way to me," put in Barnaby,
with 'asignificant grin.
You compounded some of that wonderful
salve made forever famous by the Knight of
La Mtaneha I' continued. Felix, utterly ignoring
the Sndhiller.
And then the beauty of Anna made him sigh.
&amp;Anna was, in some manner, getting mixed up
with his wounds. There was a strange jumble
of Anna in his mind; Anna and hunger-more
Anna than. hunger. Ile was, weak, anl Anna
had home upon him like a Brunswick tide. He
was neither prepared for flight nor resistance.
So he was overwhelmed --with Ania. His head,
swam, but he sank-in the sea of Anna.
So Felix was lost, and went drifting to and
fro, catching at idle straws of fancy.
While lie was yielding to a new set of sensa-,
tions, she was employed in a common-place yet
sensible manner; she was putting the touch of
woman's hand on masculine untidiness. When-
ever he ventured to loon, he saw order growing
out of confusion. By and by, she wet his face
and hands with perfumed water, and a marvel-
ous influence soothed him. Illness was no ca-
lamity, and captivity no pain.
Barnaby inffrms me," he said, when he had
fdund courage to break the calmness that was
upon him "that I have been savagely uncon-
scious for several days. I ought to apologize
fdr being a vexatious guest."
"Four days of delirium and danger.  But
the powers of life have triumphed. With pru-
dence and rest, you will recover. Talking much
is forbidden"
She ranga bell, which brought a browa maid,
L6, whom- she gave orders. Came anon a re-
freshing broth ; which he drank with avidity.
He would probably have swallowed sea-water,
,ead she presented it. He pronounced it excel-

lent, A-fdw drops remaining in the bottom of
the bowl. drew thelady's notice.  B'er.eyes
dilated, she changed'coldread snatched it fr,
the hand of  the "maid. Absurdities and moon,-
gruities lt' There had been " s' mistake. Feii
had been treated to an attenuajed dish of e,
perimental potato-starlh. Here was a ridiu-
Idus climax. Anna turned tier eyes upiar(
drew down tlee corners ,of her mouth and' put
on an expression past deseriptionr,' 8he 'co.
posed herself 'witih a strong;efor , hurrledI
brown blunderer from the room-and kept the
secret. Such thins a s these are the tiefjoE
malignant imps, that will creep into
the moment the cook's back -is' turner.t'sr,
that day, Anna was' morally upset. Mprtiiesrr
tion and laughter-kept her white an4 redby,
turns..
Poor Felix!.: It was all the sane to him.,. 4.
vitiated taste and tongue . don't minds tri~fe.
He waqitd morge broth'in half'am"h ur   XA
happened'that Barnaby, who was ac ws,36
hewatobserving,-dptected the provoking error,
and his comical mouth never got entirefya'id of
it. He went aboutt. puflAlg- his cheeks and
puckering bid lips in such' an absurd manner
that Felix threatened - to throw things tat hits,
and was greatly seandahised., In the dead stl-,
ness of'the following night, lhe heard the 'a4.^
hiller mutter " Etareh!I" and then .burstitf e:
roar of laughter.
"Anything stirring transpired lately ?"aFei,
inquired, presently,' hoping to hear of a Fdcit
al success.
His fair .nurse, who had been standing wits;-
her back to him, since the accident-of the broth,,
answered :
"Tlire has been some skirmishing on the,
Yazoo, and heavy seizures of cotton, but noth.
iug decisive. It is thought the cemy will
abandon the river, and attempt to reach Viecs-
burg by some other way."
She did not trust herself to look at her pp-
tient. She had starch on the brain.
The word "-enemy" gave Felix an unpleasant
sensation. It reminded him that his fair nue -
and himself stood on opposite sides of a vexes
question.
"Let me' hope," he said, seriously, "'tbat.
you will'not share the prejudices of your, pee-
p e"
"I forbid polities." answered Anna, authogs-
tatively. "You are it prisoner of war, and I
am your jailor."
She tried to look like a good Confederate.
"I do not complain," said Felix.
" You are here," she resumed, still keeping
her face from him,-"without watch or ward.
Your captors were going to leave, soldiers ; but
I became responsible for your safe keeping,
which was no. great thing, as your wounds were
considered mortal. But now you are going 1.
° recover ; and I -musthuvo your knightly word


d0               BARNABY, THE SANDIIILLER'

BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

that you wilt not take, advantage of convales-
cence to fly the castle."
'";ou are goodness.itaeifi" exclaimed Felix,
with enthua.iasm. "Your simple wish will keep
me here more effectually than an army of men.
Your commands are stronger than guards with
icdbayonets."
Ho had never addressed a woman with so
much warmth.
" We're on our peril o' honor !" quoth Bar-
naby, and then went into a corner to choke
down a great deal of loose laugh that was in
bun-.
"It  as been said," observed -Anna, "that
" wNorthmea sometimes violate your parole."
"I swear to you, Madam, that 'tisfalse !" cried
Felix, wrathful at the imputation, and starting
up in bed.
A white hand came over his lips, and he was
gently pushed back upon his pillow. What
poWer there was in'those small fingers I They
eould have dragged Felix anywhere and bound
him fast with a thread. She menaced him with
an onmipotent gesture, and bade him rest.
CHAPTER XI.
5P.'CUL,&amp;TIOr, .E
Left alone with Barnaby, Felix began to think
him exceedingly (lull and stupid. The comical
charms of his society was gone. When the lady
Balled Anna left the room, the Saudhiller be-
espoe but a grain of sand in'the young man's es-i
timation. He retended to go to sleep,' but le
shut his eyes to shut out Barnaby and shut
in his thoughts. He had enough to think of. 1
The magnetism of his muse pervaded him thor-
eughly.1
Baruaby creaked about the room on tiptoe, k
casting curious looks at his friend, occasionally
turning his back and clapping his hand upon hisa
mouth to smother contiiually returning attacks
of laughter. Felix, being wide awake, soon be- I
camp conscious of this state of things.t
"Barnaby, ihe said, sharply, "if you can't
keep quiet, leaves me. It seems to me that 'I
you are losing your senses."               V
" That's what I t hough of, myself," answered
Barnaby, with good nature. "Didn't use to be
so. It's sonethin' that's attackled me lately. w
Ye see I can't help it, Sir. Fust thing I know, o
my cheeks begin to puff and my mouth to s
pucker."                                  e
The Sandhiller gave an illustration of the b
pufaing and puckering.
"   don't see any sense in it," observed Fe- 
ix.
"N~*r I, nther," assented the Sandhiller,
ready to explode again. "Nobody ken see the
sense on't. Why? Caus there eu.'t nery sense
in'. Wouldn't ye like jest a leetle broth, Sir i
It's proper good for the stomich, as the old leddy 
said about the rum and metheglin"   n
Felix said something te the disaagmnto

-the old lady, and avowed his determination te
have Barnaby put, into a strait-jacket, if on*
could be found in the Confederacy.
"Thank ye 1" said Barnaby, with c .ereiga
good.humor. " shud like to be wut into one o'
those yer strait garments, as the one I got on is
gittin' mighty crooked in the seams. How did
ye like the shedoctor "
You'll oblige me, Barnaby, by speaking re-
spectfully of that young lady !" replied Felix,in ;
bad temp~er. 11She-doctor is not elegant." Ih
* I think she be!" said the Sandhiller.
" Wouldn't have no other doctor round me if
I'se sick. She moved about 'thout teaching the
floor, apparently. And then the figger!I Give
me a figger, Sir. If other's anything' I'm fond of
it's a figger-! Jest put a bigger into-my room,
Sir, and I could be sick forever."
"She was not very large," observed Felix,
entrapped into more amiability by Barnaby's
"figger" .
rNot very large, Sir; but what there was of
her was 0. K. i  Did ye notice how hendy she
was with things? Did ye happen to see her'
mouth, Sir? Other's everything' in a mouth.
I'd rether hey her mouth than- the whole o'
some wiinming   Wish you'd jest throw a curt-
ing over my race to keep thet mouth out o' my
uyes, when she comes in again. I hate to her
a mouth like thet in my eyes."
"Don't be concerned; irwill never get very
near your eyes," said Felix,
"e1cr nose was waxworks, I'll swar!" continu-
ed the Sandhiller, who was now fairly launched
upon his theme. "'Twas so delikit that 'twan
transperient, when she stood atwixt me and the
ight And wasn'tt set onto one side nether,
biut p~lumb in orange atweeni the forehead and
chin. A hair draped from one to t'other would
trike thet orgin through die centre. '1'wasn't
made for use, tl~at nose wasn't, but fur ornimint.
'a a regular Sunday-go-1o-meetir' nose, and fit
o smell nothit' but extracts o' roses. But
tisu't a nose as turns up easy; if it bed been,
would turned up when she wer' here, for you
was mighty feverish, Sir."
" What's her name, Barnaby ?"
The servants call her Miss Annie. Dunno'
whether thet's only the beginnin', or the whole
un't. Perohably tier's more o' the same sort
um'ers. Ye ken look it upwhen aye git well
enough to toddle about. Tiiet was nourishin'
broth, SirI"
To prove that he was entirely done with
laughter, Barnaby looked ludicrously solemn.
" It was tuick," said Felix; " but palatabl."
"It'll stick by the ribs, I allow."
The Sandhiller pulled the corners of his
aoutb hard toward his nether j w, and rolled
is eyes in their sockets as if they had been
marbles   e
Felix Westerly saw that face, and its queer
xpression fixed his gase, and exei'ed distrust.

"You villainI" he cried. "What have you
get? Out with it, and not stand munching it
in that way !"
"Don't miud me, Sir, but the leddy. This
yen thet ails me is'the chills and fever. I never
h-d the Looping-cough either. Nor the measels.
I shouldn't wonder if they all attackled me to
onet. I feel queer about the pericodium 1"
The Sandhiller placed a large red hand over
the region of his heart.
"You go to the devil !" muttered Felix.
"I'm too sick to hear any of your saws. You'll
lose a month's pay, boy, before you are many
days older."
"You see afore ye," answered Barnaby, in a
subdued voice, " almost a orphing ! My mother
was a dipper, and my father was a clipper. I
never passed through college; but I've reared
a good nany game chiekings. You mustn't be
hard on a covey when he suddenly took con-
'vels'nt. The best of us is exposed to sickness ;
but I know the antidote, as the spider said
when he went after the plantain leaf. I'll run
right to the cook while the sinhktoms are coming
on. A biggin o' potato starch '11 put me all
right, Sir. I'll learn the leddy's name to the
same time, which '1l be doin' two thinks to onet."
The Sandhiller rushed out. Felix tried to
make sense out of what he had said, but his
mind was muddled and -weak, and he could get'
nothing intelligible out of it. He passed into
a deep sleep, thinking of Anna. And Felix
never went to sleep again without thinking of
Anna.
CHAPTER XII.
FELIx AND BARNABY.
As Felix grew better physically, he grew
Worse mentally. The mental malady soon be-
came incurable. It seized the most vital part
of him, and maintained its grasp tenaciously.
Felix fought the disease ; at first, from prince.
ple; but it was a feeble fight, and by and by he
laid down his weapons. He grounded arms at
the feet of Anna. Her daily visits were the
only happy moments of his life. All other
seasons were seasons of loneliness and expect-
ancy.  The nocturnal marriage ' at Borrow-
scale's now troubled him. It was a trouble
that steadily increased ; a ghost of memory,
that pursued him night and day. He had
qualms and scruples and spasms of honor ;
but fate hurried him en--after Anna.
Of the history of this maiden he knew abso-
lutely nothing. Her name he had learned;
that trifling knowledge being, one of the inevi-
table necessities of the situation. To know that
he had a beautiful nurse, and that her name was
Anna Conway, was certainly not much.
The moment he was able to sit up, he sat
down and- began a new business. This business
was love-making-an employment which Na-
ture teaches, but which Artelps. Love-making

is the spring work of life. Everybody goes
into it in the verdure and foliage of youth. In
the flower and- beauty of that sunny time hope
gives enthusiasm and warm blood hurries on
the catastrophe.
Anna was not proud ; but she ad a singular
faculty of keeping Felix at a distance. III seem-
ed to him that this was intentional, and was to
be persisted in by her. He could bear anything
better than indifferened, and Anna was indit-
ferent. At least, such was the construction that
he put upon her conduct. It was in vain that
le made sundry attempts to conceal the sudden
interest which she had inspired ; the truth
would out at unexpected moments.. One can-
not guard every action and look. He betrayed
himself a dozen times a day. Meantime, his
wounds healed rapidly, and when they ceased
to .give him  much trouble, he pretended to
suffer from a ,buckerhot in his leg; a buckshot
that he could never bring.Barnaby to believe
in. But Felix said that it had flattened against
the. bone, and produced inflammation of the
per. 'steum, which was always a painful and
vexatious thing. So he went limping about his
room, after he was entitled to a discharge from
the hospital. Deceit was one of his horrible
sins of commission. Barnaby asked him, one
day, how long he thought he should be confined
to the house ?-which query he answered in
the vaguest manner at first, but finally decided
that a month ought to suffice for restoration to
a tolerable state of health. Barnaby whistled;
Felix drummed on the table in an absent-
minded manner, He was gettting to be shy of
the Sandhiller.
" I haven't any- apetite !" said Felix, de.
spondingly.
"pI hedn t observed thet 1" answered Barnaby.
" She's ramsacked the Confed'racy for poultry,
I should jedge. Ther's been a contineral flap-
pin' and squawkin' in the back yard, fur nigh
on t' a fortnight. The young darkeys is just
about fagged out with slaughter. They sleep
on the battle-field with the'r cleavers aside
'em."
Felix made no response.
" It's time to be running' away again," added
Barnaby. "I 'listed to fight, and I want to
airat my wages."
" We can't run away, Barnaby. My word is
pledged to the lady. We're on our parole."
" You may be on your'n, but durned if I'm
on mine.  Shouldn't know a- peril o' honor
from a receipt-book. and I don't keer no more
for 't. No gammon, Felix. I won't stan' no
gammon. You ken swaller potato-starch, but
rot me if I'll swaller that buckshot in the leg,
or yer peril o' honor. I know what's happened
to ye ! It's Miss Anna I That's the buoshot
that's winged ye 1"
" Runaway if you want to," said Felix, dog.
godly. " Nothing hinders you from running,


42                  BA RNABDY, THE:SAND  4ILIAD.

Ooly gentlemen are band by their pgle.
You are aSandhi Iter, you, kow."
":fe hnggdif Il r  ! When yon run ri'i
rum got afore.. I'll sticks to ye like ti] little
to a cur's tail. Run, and ye' 11 iu me elatterm'
aitr.ye. Shtp,,and.ill sto ; -settlfe ,dgwn,, and
I'll settle dowi'.,  ut I draw pay .mid th -'
Flx;listeaed gravely.
"If.ypu,, li kest the. gel,' reputed, Barg py;
"Cempose a,, speee, and tell. hpr -soy,,40
dyin' p oty, tia's.gfect. Eur -mr 'n awelk
Ircon)ntlook, at-her.'trout tre iphy lie  a
plate. of, eals-'foot, jelly, I'se .afeard of, her
eyes,I svpr.l And. w ithgood- reaop, seeihV s
bow. it's gone with ye. There' wm np sie wiatu
inggwhereI was bea, I don't ,wat Mypene,
destroyed, I don't., Yqn ken hs vypr peace de-;
stroyed if .you.gaptto,,.; but "there' a, gel dpwn,
to ,leClayCreek. thet .I'vegqt tie, breh o';
ppgmise.of.   ereyes is, ay color, and 4hapg es
with:the,weather,; andJberha'r uids .like:a; piLe
o' young snakes. SiQ, dips's aAff, but,e ae doq
C),t ch w*..,".
Lqvely,being." 'sid Feli;.,
"S4. be that," answered Barnaby,: squist.,
lug,; " but ye needn't umnation it., Ier teeth,
look1ige rowsof yellow. chielings."
"bCharming, indeed!" dded.Aclix.
"le, reter iterfuld' admonished, theS and
hiller, a, little severely.. "I don't ear to. be,
elfi'edrby nobody .But the,moral o'tris, thet
I seed, Miss: Anm were ambeauty and, stood from'
under, known' that sie mightn't want to, hev
me.if, Iasked her: to. Wit "yonit's different.
You're nior the .tbing.,with wimming. ,Some
chaps is the thing with wimming. and. some'
Felix smiled.
(!               "-Howisa it 'bout thet merriage Borrorsecale's
overseer sppke of?" asked. Barnaby.  "You
never told, me 'bout thet. How many gels,;do;
yotqrether;think ye'll merry ?- Couldn't :go to.
Salt'Iie, right away, could ye?  As the poet
says: 'Fvery prospeelts pleases', out there. "
Never.refer to that confoanded marriage !"
oried Felix, impatiently.
"It wer' a marriage. then.?" said, Barnaby,
catching him .up qiekly. '"-Should, think;yer
wife, M  "ht a4' i.yr way a little at the presr
ent writm'-"
"I.don't consider it ,a marriage. I don't ac-
knowledge it. I utt;rly ignore the whole.trans-
action,!" exclaimed Felix, excitedly. "A man
wo ld rather be married than shot, of course."
iDunno I' observed ' Brnaby, shaktng ,his,
head with an air of-uncertainty. " Can't tell,
till tI try 'em both. Matrimony lasts the long-
est, and: is p ison' bad souetimues. -I knows a
h, down to h n  hevbt don't.gitno peace, of
Lis ifer Ie wer' au'isbofiu'; Methodist,; and. hisp
prayers must a done a heap o' good ; ,fur.I':ve
eerd 'em half a -mile offr.manya-tiwe,.in, the
daad, o'.nig s,'arger. lawife 4e4i whaled .him,

Ile wer' asking' fur grace to atan' it. and hedinda t
whimieer, nether.' If he.got allaheblessings there'
were in the sound of his voice, he got enough.
I'eacq ainted-.withanother seller. whoee wom.
an uspd to-aleep, da yimes andcsiag o; nights; to
keep. him awake. She: w.' ahardt one, I warn
ye.. She sung : but r cae' tune, whichewer'; ' On
Jerding' stormy banks I stan'.' Sho cracked
hervoi e at laut, and. had to -sing. inawhispers,
which was worse to bear nor t'other."
$arnby passedaundesighed:pensively~ Com-
ical imps.lurked in hiseyes.
" Tere, was, it. is true,.a. marriage 'eere
mony," said Felix, whose mind was. intent .o
tiat. subjts '"butit : waso' much.out of the
asep'l, order that lseriously'doubt eits 'validity.
It trouble  me, I confess;:and more, recently,
thaeverefpre. .,But,-I, couldn't afford ito, be
shothiyoukai. Shooting =harts;and.kills.'
"I think 'it dod'.' quoth! Barnaby.c "What
kind -of a..shjp;wer.' she?"
"Thatia serethaniknow, and 'I careiest
She, had a squatfigureand ;wastyellow, I should
saydalthough.[ cannot sweaito her eomplexioA.
it strikesame that shedhadaelight.;limp in her
gait.. I did see- her hand; it was tolerable, not
largerethan mine. If she's -notisquint-eyedshe.
hags a screw mouth, or her .nose is put on, wrong,
orsore confounded thing or-other. I am pre-
pared forany or all of these. little.peculiarities.
" Her voice;!" queried,'Barnaby.
"It was like. a/martial fife," replied -Feli;r
giving, Tree scope to:.his imagination. " A 'very
high-pitched fife. I hate the whole fife family."
Miss Anna had opened the door gently, a mo-
ment before, and, waitad~on, the, threshold to be
observed.  Not.being seen, shesattracted in-
stant notice by saying :
" What ehasrmning, personare you describing '
Felix sprang-zup so .suddenly, that:he nearly
Qverthrew, the table'at. which' he was sitting.
Barnaby-blew up.hischeeks, and worried Felit
with his elbows, in ,a rapid series of signals.
Westerly having no, answer within.immediate
reach of his tongue, Barnaby spoke for him.
"'It wer' a woman, Mew, thetfell inlove with'
him,, at ai plantation overyon."
"The planter's daughter, perhaps," said Anna,
sailing.
" Thet's jist what she wer';and;ishe was gretly;
kerried awaywithiher feelinks. But he couldn't
merry her, you knows Miss."
"A sad case!" added Anna,, with a scarcely.
perc-:ptible frown.  "What, should 'we poor
damsels 'do, ifthere were more of you?"
" I'm gwine to leave ye'together," whispered.
Barnaby.   "Attackles her.  Go at her -right
smait, and .don't give itp.up'-
With this friendly-aduionition, the Sandhiller
stalked out of.the room,. with-as-much.haste;as
if lie were going.forea:doctor; in a;easeithat ad::
mitted of no delay.. Felix;ad. Anna were left
face:to-face-..

CHAPTER ,XIIY.
ANNA.
Felix lqolked at the face of Anna ; it wasatranp
quil. She had become mistress of ,herself while.
bp was yet -gIowing with ;embarrassed surprise.
His wavering eyes, as they drooped, ran. over
wavr fire.  She never . seemed so shapely be-
forne.  A'd there was something mpre than,
slapeiness; there were the curved and grace-
fu lines.of .beauty.  lie could not turnaway
from. her. Feelingithat he was conducting:him-
self awkwardly, he said :
"lBe seated, Miss Conway."
Tiiawas a simple sentence, and he said it lite
* simpleton. She sank into an;easy.cbair with.
-avm~ng carelessness. Shewas calm as. sum-
mer, and self-conscious.  He wishedher more
emotion 1, and himself lesaso. The enemy was
before him. Ile sat under the perilous battery,
ofAnna.-a battery of conquering; eyes,  How
dkopld he commence the assault ?. He sentout.
r connoitering glances, but they returned, bat
,e;, frpm. their inqisitive venture.
"Whom, were .youslandering, Sir, when I
capieiin ?" asked Anna, frigidly.
"A shrew," answered Felix, unfortunatelyyas
it seemed ; for Mia Conway grew' more-lofty in
hermanner.
"So you have founds shrew among us2" she,
observed.
"Tie only one in, the country, I dare says"
saide elix,, olitely.;
"Oh, I thank you ! I thought it possible;tbat.
you. had found another."
"Miss Conway," returned Felix with earnest-
nees,."you are certainly jesting."'
Here was an. opportunity for enthusiasm;
.gi ;was going to improve it to the utmost,
when Anna.remarked :
"Describe mue that shrew."
Sheaccompanied this command by a-glance
that was im perative.
"Impossible 1" murmured Felix.
"iV ly impossible? Could you -not describe
me, if reqested to do so by a lady ? By your
next nurse, for instance ; for I.take it for grant-
ed; that ) ou'll go on being wounded and nursed."
" Describe  you " exclaimed  Felix, with
warmthi. "I do not know; .I think not- I really
thiukimot.  Beauty is indescribable.  Beauty
is inspiration. The nose, the eyes, the mouth,
do not altogether make it. The expresion, the
glow, the fervor of the thought-"
'"You are getting feverish again," interrupted
Anna. " We must look out .for your deirlium.
Thq surgeon said it was-an intermittent kind."
For an instant the young man's breath seemed
gone.. Then, t show that he was not hurt, he
laughed ; hpt it was that kind of a laugh which
heroes sometimes, make to shpw. their courage.
widle having a lirab amputated. His niren did
not smile. There was the appearance of mode'
rate fear in her expression.

"Fair nurse," said Felix; anon, " you havV
c9me to nie full, of cruelty, Your visits used,
to be visits'of mercy ; butto-day youthave-sow
to pyt me down."
"I heard yo~i ppeak ill of myssex," said Misa-
Conway.
"Not of your sex, but-of oneof your sex.. Let]
us start fairly. I .heg pardon. for all sins of :
omission and commission, past, present, and "t%
como,"
"That cannot be forgiven which.has:not -hap..
pened. There is no name forthat which. never
has been;, Come away frons the future., Let,.i4,
be. You are up for punishment. £Look in my,
face; and apewer.me."
" Will look in your face," stammered Wes
terly, " as much as. you please, but ,I do koWr
know that I will, answer you.  I, complainaok
you spnewhct, You listened,,aud-you are push.,
ing me to the wall, on.accoputof a person ,not-
worth,mntioning.  Ypu meant toas who.slshe
is; I see the question in your eyes.,"
"qQestions should tbe ,i r the mQuth," said
Anna.
"Fair, nurse,, you get i rmyway.  Stand
aside. Hear me while. 1 answer the inquiry of
your motionless lips. This shrew isa planter's
daughter. . No, matter what .:planter; no mattr
where he lives. Well," said .Felix, hesitating,
"that is, about all there is of the story."
"Except-the squint,eyes,:serew- mouth, star-
tial fi.fe,:and yellowsi.: I do not .wish to dis-
credit your tale, Mr. Westerly, but, I am.- aoe
quainted with:all the planters' daughter inthis
region,.and I. knpw ,ot no such person asyow,-
have described. Beware, Sir, how you entangle
yourself."
Shq shook;her finger athim warningly.
"1Preparefor confession," she resumed..
"1 ought to kneel," said Felix.
"No.; you ought to obey.   I'll have noire-!
viler at my .feet. The planters name, Sir ?"
" Excuse me, Miss Conway,; but--I really;
won't. You don't know the situation.  There
were circumstances-which--whieh .were not of,
the slightest earthlyimportance."
He looked at . Anna's sipper in ludicrous em!
barrassnent. She drew the slipper out of sight..
"This confessional will soon- close," added
Anna,.bodiugly.
"I entreat otherwise," cried Felix, lighting
up suddenly.  " I beg that you will remain toy
hear me.  There is no confessional so charm-
ing ; no other confessor that can utter, the words.
needful to my peace."
"You are intermitting again. How sudden-
ly you pass from gauity to the other i  Do not
rob me :of the ereqit of this cure., Iam your
autocrat.  I deify'to, you all emotions ; Ilayr
them all away.; , I put: them,, out of your reaeh.,
IBe quiet, Sirl"
Anna raised her: white right-hanl, held it ob-
'testingly toward Felix, and spoke with sovereigia

IIAR TABY THE SANDINLLER.            4W,

I   ,
, f
1  t
[i
i
'


44                  B' RNABY, THE SANDHILL'E R.

grace. Morally, she pushed him back, and.held
him under the touch of her finger.
"You'll make me insane, by heavens !" he
mutteredd, beginning to be vexed.
"I am your nurse, am I not2" continued
Anna, holding him firmly in hand.
Felix nodded sullenly.
" You trusted me with the physical malady ?"
Another bow, more ungracious than the
other.
" I treated it skillfully, I believe you are
ready to acknowledge ?"
Felix stole a sidelong glance at his dictatress ;
her prestige was growing greater, and his was
growing less.
" Your mental state was worse than the other.
It was that whieb gave us uneasiness. No man
is judge of his own sanity. I have been the
witness and attendant of both conditions, and it
is for me'to pronounce on your mental sound-
ness. Rebel, if you dare I"
Playfulness and authority were charmingly
mingled in her manner.
"I'll run away !" threatened Felix, more put
down than he ever thought he could be.
" You .cannot. You forget that I am your
sailor as well as your nurse. I have your word
of honor to remain during my pleasure. Be-
ing, as you profess to be, a gentleman, nothing
is more impossible than for you to run away.I
It would be dishonorable to break faith with aI
man; but it would be infamous to break faith
with a woman, who has not the physical ability
-to enforce the compact "1
Westerly became silent -and attentive. The'
,extraordinary mental composition of this Anna
began to be revealed to him. He thought itf
was time to stop and to try a new start.'- 1
" Your last remarks, Madam," he said, by-e
and-by, with much courtliness, "are undeniably
true. I will tell you another truth : I am twice
a prisoner; once to the Confederate Govern- I
meant, once to you. Should I escape from the 1
Confederates, I cannot escape from you. Butt
I see how it is to be. This conversation hasa
taught me to expect nothing. You have a
marvelous power of walking over one's wishes, s
and of tampering with. his hopes.  Mock on,
for you mock so charmingly, that the pain anda
the pleasure are about equally balanced. As
you have control of me, without and within, it
only remains for me to render passive obedience, n
which is not exactly according to my education
and natural impulses." He stopped, then add-
ed, with a flush of vexation: " I wish you were
us good as you are ingenious."             a
" Are you making love, Sir ?"
Onme of those potent hands of hers, which
neused to fasten his head to the pillow, and to im-
pose silence on his lips during the vagaries of -
ullness, was placed on her forehead, the tips ofa
the fingers resting just over her eyes. There
glance which she threw at him was literally

sifted through her fingers. Her attitude show
ed to advantage her white round arm and dainty
wrist. Felix had a passion for white arms and
dainty wrists. He experienced a thrill of pain
and uncertainty.
" No," he answered, with a sigh ; "I am
making folly!"
Anna dropped her eyelids pensively; she
expressed soft languor and soft melancholy ;
most dangerous moods in woman; they make
the heart ache worst of all. He could now con-
template her at discretion-her sentinels being
called in. Pride came to his aid, to make or mar.
"Folly," he added, unamiably, "is a part of
the business of life. Was I making love? I
had no thought of it. My head is bad. As
you say insanity intermits with sanity. I ache
wretchedly across the brows."
Felix lied ; lie ached lower than that ; and
never more than when lie was uttering the false-
hood. He thought he had lost his case ; that
defeat was evident and final.' Seeing her there
before him proved only how much he had lost,
or, rather, how much he had not won. He
doomed himself miserable for the rest of his
life. He wished he had been shot when the
chance was offered him.
" Ice water I" murmured Anna.
"Spare your anxiety, Miss Conway, I shall
get over this by to-morrow. I have a wonder-
ful faculty of throwing off things!" He said
this insidiously. He meant: "Your love is
one of the things that I mean to throw off with-
out any trouble." -
It was his firm conviction that she was a
woman without heart Under this revulsion of
feeling he was ready to say something unkind.
He wished to wound her, and wondered where
she was vulnerable. Could he have found a
sensitive spot, he would have been as cruel as a
Turk. There is little mercy in a jilted man.
His loving sweetness soon sours. Love and
hate lie close together; but Felix was not one
to give place to the latter. He could be proud,
angry, and provoking, but not vindictive,
"f will go," said Anna ; "you tire of my
ociety."
" I am tired - of myself; that is the only
weariness I feel," retorted Westerly, brusquely.
"I should like to be exchanged."
"Bear your fate heroically;," continued An-_
ia, smiling. ' You will be at liberty in a few
months, no do bt."
" A few months are a few ages ! Have you
not prisons here ? Give me back my promise
nd send me to prison."_
Ile arose, went to a window, and looked out-
with a frownin brow.
"e content.Sir," answered Anna, somewhat
piqued. We'll -increase your sufferings, by-
and by. You would like the credit of being a
martyr to liberty. We cannot afford to make
martyrs."

BARNABY, TUE S A NDHILLE.

"You can afford to make friends !" said 1 suggestion with a look that made Baruaby'
Felix, quickly.                      .     eyes.dilate with astonishment.
"You seem offended," replied Anna, rising.  "What ye drivin' at now? as the whale said
-I cannot stay with people who are displeased when the skipper harpooned him," demanded
with. me. How is the buckshot, Sir ?"      B:irnaby, bristling. " Got yer head out o'
She. looked at him  demurely. The guilty j'int again, heva t you? Stop that, or we'll
blood mounted to the young- an's face. Be hev ye bled again."
was not expecting this sudden 1ow; it nearly  "Is the surgeon here ?" asked Felix, con-
demolished him. While he stood biting his tracting his brow till two furrows appeared in
lips and trying to think of something to say, the middle of his forehead.
she said: "Good-morning, Sir !" dropped the  "Yes," said Barnaby, fibbing.
lowest of courtesies, and went out of the room  "'Let him come and open a vein ." answered
with a saintly expression.                 Felix, tragically.
*o     4.look like a lunattick-asylum!" said
CHAPTE1R XIV.                 Barnaby, cautiously edging toward Felix, whose-
DISAPPOINTMENT.              condition began to alarm him. " Like a lunat-
To look saintly is to look what one is not, as tie asylum, or a shapedd convex from a crazy
a general thing. Outward saintliness is apt to 'ospittle."
be inward hypocrisy.         .               "Take yourself away !" growled Felix.
Felix stood utterly confounded, staring at  " Come, now, what's the matter of ye? Are-
the door through which his divinity disappear- n't going' into one o' them yer ravin' spells, be
ed. This young man knew a great deal, but ye? I'd rether see Bedliim broke loose, than.
there were things yet to be added to his knowl-i.to go through with thet again."
edge. The contradictory workings of a woman's  An anxious expression passed over the Sand-
mind, her whims, her fancies, her likings, and hiller's face.
dislikings, were matters in which he was a   " Tied hand and foot !" muttered Felix, with-
novice. Felix had recently reared, with some out noticing Barnaby. "Tied hand and foot,
painstaking, an air palace, which had suddenly without the power of helping myself."
tumbled from the skies into a mass of ruins.  "Blisters and leeches!' said .Barnaby, to-
This palace had been constructed mostly of himself.
Anna, in moments of convalescent idleness, and " Under moral quarantine I" added Felix.
there remained to him but scattered fragments  " Spanish flies and ice !" continued Barnaby,
of the aerial edifice.                '    refleotively.
He felt himself blazing all over ; but he was  "Look here, you dirt-eater 1" cried Felix,
not on fire ; it was only the shame and con- turning fiercely upon Barnaby. "You eneour--
sternation of his blood.  That unfortunate aged me ! You led me on, you dog ."
buckshot had wounded him again.  And this    " Jilted !" cried Barnaby, a light flashing
time it had not flattened against his tibia, but upon his train. "Jilted by Miss Anna I"
against his pride. He muttered and scowled.  ," Not jilted, but toyed with and mocked !"
He deprecated the moods of woman, and he     Just then the brown maid opened the door,
secretly cursed the mischief of her saintly de- and asked:
mureness, He thought at first that he would  "Missus wants to know what you'll please
blow his brains out; but immediately remem- have for dinner ?"
bered that lie had nothing to blow with, as his "Tell your mistress that I've dined!" an,
revolver had been taken from him. He would swered Felix, with grim humor.
throw himself on the point of his sword, but The girl did not comprehend, and lingered.
the point of his sword was a long way off, the  "Chicking I" said Barnaby.
Confederates only knew where-they having     "Nothing I" said Felix;briefly, and emphati.
despoiled him of this now much-needed blade. ally.
It is singular enough that he did not think of a  "Chicking and a bottle o' claret !" added-
vial of laudanum, which stood on a window-sill Barnaby, in a whisper.
within reach.                               Felix took a turn across the room, and find-
But one's wits are not always about him in ing the girl still waiting said, peremptorily :
moments of desperation. He was meditating a  "Go and inform your mistress that I really
run against the wall, in which his brain would have need of nothing. I'm not hungry."
peradventure have been dreadfully shattered,  " The buckshot is took inflamed, suddint I;
when Barnaby providentially appeared to frus- amended Barnaby.
rate, or at least' postpone, a catastrophe so.s " Barnaby I" said Felix, solemnly ; "you and
dire. The Sandhiller's greeting was ill-timed, I shall have a serious quarrel vdry soon. Don't
and worse received.,                      meddle with that buckshot.   i've suffered
"How's that yer buckshot, Capting ?"    enough from it to-day. She threw it at me."
Felix unpolitely said :                    "Tlsrew it at ye I" repeated the Sandhiller,
"Go to the devil!" and accompanied the ready to laugh.


f6                        BARiTABY, THE SANDHILLER.
".I believe you are, a treacherous rascal !"  "Barely  ough fur leaven, Sir.  And I
Felix went on. "You must have slandered me think, some mes, added Barnaby, philosophy.
to Miss conway."                           ally ; " that het'has soured."
Barnaby protested his innocence. 'He swore  "What is wisdom ?'',queried Felix.
by blue clay, and by sand, and bp game also"-- 'To take 'er o' one's self, and be Happy I"
which was a very strong oath. Ielix remained said Barnab . "Thet yhieh don't make ye
sullen and unbelieving. 'fis servant reasoned happy isn't worth hevin'I Let each one go his
with him.                                  own road, if it don't. ostle other folks. Your
" Wten.ye fight the enemy, and don't whip road is piiss Anna. Fuller it. If ye back
him the first time, you 'don't give it up, but try down, durned if I don't take to rn19 heels,.honor
again. Why don't the .same rule hold good in or no honor."
this yer case ? You attackle a gel fur to court "' But you  ee, Barnaby, she ,didn't favorme
her and she gives ye the worst on't; up and at at all.. did not get so much as an encour-g.
;her again ! What's the good o' wiltin' and sit- ing smile from her. She-never looked more be.
tin' down in despair ? Tisan't brave nor manly, witching. I own that my heart ached. It was
thet isn't. If I really loved agel, I'd try twen- weakness and nonsense, but-it ached. If I'm
ty times running, and never say die. It lays not becoming s silly as a school-girl, I'm mis'.
just here, Felux. If a woman's worth hevin', taken."
she's worth coaxin' and winning . Now this Miss , Westerly dropped his face into his hands, and
Anna is oncommon; consequentially is worth sighed.
-oncommon exartion. I've heerd of some one   " Was she coss ?" asked Barnaby,; gathering
thet livedin old times who worked seven year moral power very, fast.g
'fur one gel, and,then got the wrong one.:, Durn- " I think not,"-answered Felix, like aschool-
ed if I'd-stan' the seven ,year ; but I'd try one boy.
on 'em, and if that didn't' do, I'd lap over into " Was she scornful?"'
&amp;he next, if ther' was -anyprospecks of success.  " Not exactly that."
I'm:gwine to pitch into you, Sir. I hevn't the  "Was she sulky ?"
same 'pinion of ye thet I bed. You've no     "No!":grumbled-Felix. "She was bewitoh-
pluck. You've no sperrit. You've- lost thet ing as the deuce. S:'.e might have been anan-
ame turn o' the head thet you use, to hev. gel, but she isn't. There's a vein of tantalizing
I've seen ye bearyerself right smart, in battle. mischief in her, which she hs no disposition'to
When the bullets was buzzin' like bees, you subdue. While I sat trembling, and miserable,
'didn't seem to keer. Now a gal's eyes fright- she sat calm, and smiling, and bewildering in
enseye,,and agel's tongue takes all the fight her beauty and conscious-power. I was thrown
Out o' ye.. I've heerd t'het a man in love wer' back as a drowning man is borne from the-shore
a man beside hisself, and I'll be hanged if I by a returning wave. If she were an inferior,
'don't begin to believe it. If you :go on as I could cope with her, but she's quite the re-
you've commenced, you'll lose a blue clay-eat- verse."
er,, one. sandhiller, one cock-fighter,.'and one  "She weren't cross, nor'scornful, nor sulky,"
friend."-                                 said Barnaby, with a mathematical look. "But
Barnaby kept straightening up as ho went on she were bewitehin' ! Thet's jest what :you
withhis speech, and by the time he reached the want her to be. I don't -see -no crime ther'.
elimar, lie was so straight that he lipped back- The fault must be in yerself. You must recroot
ward. Westerly's selfishness 'thawed a trifle. some'at, and march onto her works again. But
Selfishness makes people very contemptible you mustn't appear.'too airnest. When a gel-
sometimes. It makes them   forgetful of the sees thet ,you're all stirred up,. and. over head
faithful ones about them. Every thought con- and ears in love, she takes her own time for't,
verging miserably in self, renders them un- and lets you play at the end o' the line -like a
fit for companionship, and places them beyond trout on a book."
the reach of ordinary , ympathies. Common    "You speak like a veteran I"
sense is good, come from yhat quarter it may.  "Hullo I" exclaimed Bareaby. "Ther's 'sol-
Westerly's folly began to ttegger. 'He seated diers in the yerd !"
himself and took a long breath; then he, look-  Felix looked, .ind saw mounted men entering
.ed at. Barnaby. Looking, at '3arnaby did him  at the. gate. They swarmed-in ; they filled the
.good ; 'i made him think-oft that, person's de- yard. They were Confederates.  They di.
votedness,-and it brought back a glow of rcea- mounted, some within and some .without the in-
son,  le subsided' marvelously. Reaching closure, and hiteed their horses by passing one
eafer ground ,by-and-by, heasked:         bridle-rein through another, so that each animal
"Are there a.good many fools inthe world, was secured to the next.
IBarnati ?"      ,Felix observed these men with interest, and
"Mfost of 'emt is 'fools,", said the Sandhiller, concealing his person as much as. possible, con-.
oracularly.                                tinned to 'watch their movements. In appear-
" And the wise onest" snee, these defenders of the New Ecepublio fell

BAINABY, -THE
Vtrs belY the Na ioual troops ; ' they' Were "rag-
ged' and onant elbows. Their nnifortes were by ;
go nicansAinifou'i; 'hut mottled' in' grotesque
fashion. In  any instances he'recognized; with:
pain, the Federal blue. 'This one' was' butdendd
into 'a''Federal vest, 'another 'ito 'a "Federal'
'ket', 'while' a third ware Thtteured Federal
trowsers-garmenits' torn, probably, 'frota the;
dead or dying. :These'-were not all the-incon-
gruities that appeared. In nota fe'w'vcases somde
altiele'of ciVil wear eked out the dirty Confed-,
crate'gray shoddy.
"Shodly," thought Felix, is not an article of
entirely Northern 'monopoly i Our foes have
shoddy vampires as well as ourselves."
He turned and expressed this reflection to
Barnaby. But other things sobn drew his no-
tice. 'He -was 'particularly impressed with the
reckless bearing of these marauders; for-such
they seemed to be. :Their arms and equipments
were as 'varied as possible. Every description
ef blade' and every -species of firearm hung at
their imits-or at their 'backs.
CHAPTER 'XV.
-Ode-rider'among'the motley drew"fxed Wes-
terley's attention, and recalled unpleasant asso-
ciations. It twas his treacherous gnide, of
jockey-cap  memory.   He had -not changed
much outwardly. He was the last to enter the
inclosure, and 'rode in with the same careles
and easy air -that had distinguised him on an-
other occasion. The sight of him gave Felix
an unpleasant'sensaticn, and he instinctively
drew"back from the window. Glancing at'Bar.
naby, be perceived! that he Was not' witnessing
these arrivalss with indifference. His 'counte-
nance wasptoubled. The-usial glow'of his 'face
had given place' to paleness. 'Jest and humor
were pushed aside' fsir the-moment by'othercon-
siderations. - -      '
"What do you think of this?" Felix asked,
in a low tone.
Barnaby shook his head so ominously, 'that
the uneasiness ofFelix was greatly increased.
"'Your wit' ad "cortlge desert you -at' the'
same time," observed Felix, disparagingly.
" If my -breath don't foller 'em  I shell be
glad 1" answered the Sandhiller, dismally. "Not
bevin' the narrer views of 'many people, I've
been on' bth sides o'this yer question., I fol-
lered the Confederate rag a whole day, in a new
suit of gray. I was taken homesick, and started
for home 'thout 'mentionin' it to ,nobody. 'In
the hurry o' leavin' I 'forgot to change my
clothes; and : the p'ison neighbors run of the
notion -thet I'd deserted. But I hedn't. The
Confeds wanted me to train 'up there' to head-
quarters, andso I ained, and'when I got done
l core away."
''-A voryLinnoentatransaction I' aid Felix,
eriy.

SANDHILLER.                            '47
'4I didn't sign 'my' name ndwher', continued
Barnaby, musingly. 'Not -by . 'long chalki
inot, by'a great sight! 'I made' a cross, 'Ad thet's
all I made, and they writ to it, 'DBarnaby Cruise.
'his' mark'."
"' Like'this," said 'elix:
'~is
-3srnaby ' X Cruise.
mark.
Writig with his pencil,'on' a 'slip Of paper,
he showed it to'the Sandhiller.
" Thet's it!" admitted Barnaby, with a wry
face.
" That's 'enough !" repliedd 'Felix, -smiling.
"Enough to hang you if' they- get hold of you.
You are a harmless, well-meaning young gen-
tieman."
Barnaby squinted, than 'looked demture as a
girl.
'I',never was' sot in my mind 'about this yer
business," he said, ingenuously. " I don't keer
much'which side I fight on. Give me the best
Wagesan'd the bestcldthes, 'and'thet's the right
side for me. --I'got disgusted' with 'the -Confed-
orate shdddy,'and'- thet's 'What' the niatter 'was.
I Weren't a going' to fight in trbwsers fhet would
skereely hang together. Two buttons came off
while' I tver'""shouldeAin' arms  "'Well,-I bed to
lay down my gun and 'tend to my garmints!
V hat if thet bed 'happened in battle; when there'
wer' no time to devote to tailerin'."
'Barnaby raised his right';iand till it reacle
an angle of forty-five degrees, 'and made a  1-
emnappeal to 'the 'judgment 'of Felix an  the
ver'diet of Tmankind, With his eyes as'w'll-as with
his voice.
'Allthe 'partisan horsemen 'without; all the
dangers that 'surrounded him; all the appre-
hensions' that' he had reason to feel, -had not
power to'sibdue the-irrepressible humor of the
Saadhiller. .The 'white around his mouth was
mre eonical for being 'white ; and the pale-
ness of his cheeks !added to the grotesqueness
of 'lip 'and "bye. Westerly laughed ; not so
much at what Barnaby had said, as at his ex-
pression.
":No gray shoddy for me !" he aded, lowering
himself from his climax byya beautiful grada-
tion. He' waggled 'his head, didt Barnaby ; lie
waggled it pensively. as if sober thoughts, came
with his humor. h is' voice had taken"'a melan-
choly cadence. " If them bushwhackers should
string me up, hear my last will and testamint.
All my personal property I give and bequeaths
to you. Also, one Derby game-cook, with
green hackles. Likewise 'one Cuban stag, with
white wattles -and -a red head. One month's
pay. My blessin'. --Any Confederate scrip thet
I may hew at the time o' my disease."
" This 'visit may prove no jest to ue," inter-
repted Felix.
" You'll 'git out bn't i but iktit-shouldn't go


BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

so lucky with ino, jest kerry my gel a pound o'
yellow snuff, a dip-stick, and a box."
"I'll do it," said Westerly, trying to look
serious.
" My sperrit," added Barnaby, sentimentally,
"will hover about Blue Clay Creek. Under
the south side of a pine log you'll find a gray
shoddy breeches. Keep 'em !"
Just as he reached this touching conclusion,
Miss Conway entered the room hastily. She
shut and bolted the door before speaking. She'
was pale and agitated. Felix was struck with
the change that had come over her since he
last saw hdr. She was no longer arch. and
smiling. The charming coquetry of the maid-
en was laid aside for the higher responsibilities
of the hour and the woman. Ile saw at once
that something unexpected had happened. He
bowed, and waited to hear what it was.
" We have unpleasant visitorsI" she said. "I
have come to tell you that you are in great dan-
ger."
" I suspected'as much," answered Felix.
"We're on our peril o' honor I" interrupted
Barnaby, with spirit. "Our peril o' bonor isn't
a gwine to be introoded on, is it? We know
which is milingtary rules, Mem."
Westerly made a motion forhim to be silent.
"Those men," resumed Anna, pointing to the
window, "are lawless."
"I had arrived at that conclusion," said the
young man.
" Whether they mistrust your presence in this
house, I do nit know," she went on, her anxiety
being sufficiently perceptible in her manner.
"But should they discover .you, I confess my
utter inability to protect you. As for your
friend Barnaby, hia fate would be summary and
instant; for it is generally understoodin this
vicinity, that he has been under the Confeder-
ate flag, but has since -taken service under
General Grant. You, Sir, it makes me blush to
say, would fare little better than your attend-
ant. You must leave this place."
"It must be speedily, then I" remarkedFe-
lix.
"They'll be ramsackin' the house soon," said
Barnaby. "You can't keep such critters as
them from plunder."
"I am trying to gain time," resumed Anna,
exhibiting much firmness. "The servants of
the house and plantation are car ying them
food."
"Let 'em roll out a berril o' whisky," sug-
gested Barnaby.
" Ai order to that effect has been given.
The spirit will prove sufficiently attractive to
engage their present attention ; but whisky, you
know, makes lawless men savages."
Felix now beheld Anna in a new character,
and one so different from any she had yet dis-
played that he was much surprised. Her pale;
mess and perturbation did not rob her of her

beauty, and she appeared in this, as in all other
situations in which he had seen her, to advan.
tage. She was not now the bewildering maiden,
but the lovely, earnest, and.graceful woman, to
be admirred, deferred to, and obeyed.
The clamorous voices of the Confederate par-
tisans rose higher and higher without, and it was
evident that their orgies had begun.
Anna moved across the room, and drew the
curtains more closely,
"Tell me, Miss Conway, what you propose to
do, and I shall be but too willing to second your
exertions,". said Felix. " And, dear young
lady," he continued) in a tone not quite steady,
"allow me to express my fears for your safety,
as well as mine and Barnaby's. I am sure that
you ought not to be here. Those men of un-
bridled tongue and unlicensed appetite will soon
overstep that boundary within which the help-
lessness of women is respected."
" As the time is short, my answers must be
brief. In lhe rear of the house there is a wood,
at this distnee, thick and impenetrable to the
eye. Beta een us and it, there is considerable
shrubbery ; enough, I think, to insure a safe
exit, with ordinary cautiousness."
" We are to gain the wood, unperceived,"
observed Felix.
" Where you will find horses and guides
awaiting you, provided all goes well," said
Anna.
The marauders outside grew more uproarious,
Their mirth grew into a terrible chorus of con-
fusion.
Anna glanced at the window with a shiver.
" You are to understand, ' she resumed, " that
accidents may delay, and, possibly, entirely
frustrate a part of this plan. Bit you are to be
patient, and wait a suitable time after reaching
the wood for the horses. The moment for
leaving the house is at hand, and I hope you
will be very prudent. The whisky, you may
notice, has begun to operate, and the men will
soon tire of inaction, and become discursive and
prying."
''Miss Conway," cried Felix, "I fear more
foryou than for myself I'Who are your pro
tectors ? What assurance have you of safety?.
I will not stir without you; or, at least, I will
not attempt to save myself while I have any-
doubt of your security."
The Confederates sent up a shout that shook
the windows. . Anna recoiled, as if from a
blow.
" Your care for me is generous; and your
fears, perhaps, are not ill-grounded," she re-
plied, with some warmth. I am sensible of your
kindness, and I hope you will be content when
I inform you that my safety is already provided
for. Do not persistin the determination you
have expressed, for such persistence will seri-
ously interfere with my purpose. Yield, Sir, to
my wishes."

Ht
r
Cy
Jo
b0
h!
E's

0

48


3ARNABY, THE SANDIULLER.                               61
She dove him a glance of entreaty.       - " I never was a reliable drinker, friend, and r
"You spoke of a guide, or of guides ?" he 'think that, whisky was rather new for palate or
said.                                      stomach."
" Yes; but I need not describe the 'persons  "Or brain !" added the Confederate, shaking
who will go with you. One, I will say, how- his head. "And yet it makes our lads lively."
ever, is a youth, wounded not long since in a  "Lively enough" said Felix, turning his
skirmishi with the 'ederal pickets. I will men- face frow the social stranger.
tion, too, the fact that he is near of kin. His  Barnaby, who ha' preceded Westerly, was
name, if you would know it, is Andrew."    now out of sight. He had sunk down among
"Andrew," repeated Felix, to fix the name in the shrubbery, a little the other side of this an-
his memory.                               trader, who manifested no inclination to go ou,
" You may trust him fully," added Anna.  "Comrade," he resumed, with a leisurely air,
" Whatever happens, do not think you are be- ." what do you think of this business ?"
trayed. The other person or persons, I will  "The war ?" asked Felix, inwardly chafing $
leave you to find out yourself. I need say no the delay.
more. Now is a favorable moment for leaving  "What else should it be ?" retorted the other.
the house without observation. Come I"     f' It is the only thing thought of or talked of."
Felix followed Anna. Felix would have fol-  "I think we shall tire them out eventually S"
lowed Anna all over the world. There is always said Felix.
a woman that a man will follow all over the  "That's possible, Sir ; but I see little pros-
world. LHe sometimes finds that woman ; if he peet of it at present. It drags awfully, and is
does not, he thinks he does, and so jogs on. getting to be a bore among the better class of
His recent adoration was coming on, the pre- planters. For my part, I wish we could whip
monitory symptoms were already present in his them at once, and not protract this struggle till
quickened pulse and hurried respiration. These the country is bankrupt."
fluttering fancies affect both blood and breath.  "I've often expressed that wish to my
They are sweet fallacies, that lighten life,  friends," replied Felix, hoping that this woul4
She reached the outer door, and opened it. end the unwelcome interview.
There seemed nothing for Felix to do but to go  What the man had said, however, gave him a
out and creep ,away.- Barnaby went out; but desireto look at him. It was evident that he
tha sick young man lingered.               talked better than he looked ; for his apparel
" Tell me if I shall see you again ?" he asked, was made up of odd garments, which represent.
wih emotion.                             ed, in their respective hues, both Armies as
Her cheeks for an instant gave him the color well as the Navy. He wore a naval jacket, a
of the red rose ;,and then they gave him the Federal waistcoat, Confederate trowsers, and
1il:r. He thought he had angered her ; but she Yankee brogans. His appearance was highly,
was not angry.                            yet seriously, suggestive. It forced home the
" I know qot," she answered, gravely. " None conviction that brethren were in arms, and
know when they part whether they shall meet that members of one. great family, speaking
gain I'                                   one common language, were engaged in pillage
" True, Anna!" responded Felix, addressing and destruction.
her by this familiar name for the first time.  The intruder, impelled by the same feeling
'' But it would give me inexpressible pain to be- that had prompted Felix, gave him a reciprocal
live this our first and last parting. It is my examination, and observed, laughing :
duty to say how deeply I am indebted to you."  " Well, comrade, you are more Federal out-
"Go I" said Anna, in a friendly tone; "Bar- side than I amI"
naby waits for you.".                        " But you are the most universalI" respond-
She gave him her hand ; he pressed it a mo- ed Felix, sharing for an instant the stranger's
ment in his, turned in silence away, and she good-humor. "You are certainly a representa-
closed the door upon him.                  tive man,"
"Yes I" said he, " I represent both lgn4 and
CHAPTER XVI.                  water, the Empire and the Union."
Just then Westerly saw Barnaby thrust up
A FulENDLY ENEMY.              'his remarkable head and duck it back again.
Out of the house was not out of danger. The  " May knighthood crown your.bravery 1" re-
best-laid plans are subject to contingencies. turned Felix, struggling with an impatience
Felix had gone but a few paces, when a tall which sometimes threatened to betray him.
Confederate, who had probably wearied of his "Qood day."
comrades,'suddenly crossed his path.. Seeing  ,Baroaby, to express his feelings, poked his
Felix, he stopped,:and said: -             arm upthrough the foliage and shook a fist at
"What i tired of feasting so soon ?"     the philosophical Qonfederate.
Westerly, perceiving theerror into which the  " Must we partcomrpany sq soon?" quoth the
aaa had fallen, answered :                 lttet. "YO are a companional le fellow; bus


BARNABY, THE. SANDHILLER.

62                  BARNABY, THE SANDIIII LER;

now I think of it, I do not remember tohave
noticed your face before."'
" Nor I yours !" said the young man, tartly.
S" And yet it is a clean one!" continued the
Confederate, facetiously. " And clean prices are
by io means common among us. - My nearest
neighbor rode- beside me three days without
being' known '-to me. He ivashed his face at a
brook, and that was the way I recognized him
at Blast. When- I shook hands with nini, and
asked how his family was,-he grinned and want-
ed to 'know if I hadn't known him before. If I
ivere Colonel Allerton, I'd have every rman of
the -regiment wash his face before going into
battle, so that the killed might be identified by
thieik friends."
Felit thought of the man in the jockey-cap,
and made up his mind that he was Colonel Al-
lerton. Seizing upon circumstances not before
noticdd, and connecting them by a sudden flash
of intelligence, he reacted this conclusion with
a strong consciousness that it was true. The
mind often solves difficulties so quickly that it
is not easy to follow its rapid workings. He
had heard of ColonelAllerton as a leader of
mounted Rebel partisans. Some persons, the
Federals among them, called these partisans'
bushwhackers, guerrillas, and 'outlaws.  But1
the. Confederate nation called 'them  soldiers.
He jotted it~down in-his mental book that his
treacherous guide had been this noted chief;
and it was straight-into his woodland camp that
he 'bad led him. These things went drifting
through his mind like waifs on the waters of
thought..
"You should be high in the confidehee of
your leader," he remarked, edging away from
.the spot ; for the'stranger'had been gradually
approaching him, and had shortened the dis-
tance more than Felix had increased it. He
was now within two yards of the young man,
eyeing him closely._
"By Heavens I" he exclaimed; "you are a
Federal!"                 -
Felix did not stir, but heyfelt his'blood thrill-
Ing wondrously. All'seemed lost. He appear-
ed doomed to captivity. In the present escape,
he had founded hopes of seeing Anna-of meet-
ing her somewhere in a mysterious manner, and
thatsotnething better than all the past would
grow out of it. To be baffed on the threshold
of success was a blow that he was not prepared
for.
What should he say? More important still,
what'should he'do?      '
'The Confederate exhibited to hirl,.in his'own
person, six feet two of sturdy bone and season-
c tausel.'" A dangerous ;antagonist for, a man
weak fiotn' illness. In the iutax of multitudi-
nous thAoughts there is silence and inaction. ..Ai
e.iotional mnorment precedes eve y deed.
"Stand, 'lir 1" added the'Cofedefate, 'in a

suppressed tone. "Do not attempt anything..
Yield, rescue, or no rescue."
" Do not be misled by my looks, comrade,"'
stain mered Westerly ; "the same mistake has
occurr l before."
" I shouldn't ivonder if it had occurred late-
ly I  retorted' the  Rebel partisan, quietly.
"Faith ! you look to rne like a convalescent
prisoner. Come, Sir, you might as well give it'
up, and own that you are cornered."
"Ypu seem really a good-natured fellow,"
sail Felix, greatly perplexed. " I have pressing.
business on hand ; let us shake hands and part."
"That proposition may look very reasonable,
to you, but I may be of a different mind. Do
not look so pale about the mouth; I do not
propose to kill you-at least, not immediate-
ly."'
The courteous Rebel smiled. Felix saw Bar-
naby creeping toward his-captor.
"No matter what your intentions may be,-
personally," Felix replied, "the result will be
the same ; for I have reason to believe that
your fellows will'-not receive me as a prisoner-
of war ; so that you will be, in fact, the author'
of many death. 1 should judge by your counte-
nance, that you can derive little satisfaction
from seeing me hanged.' For God's sake ! let me
go my way!"     .
" More easily said than done," responded the
Rebel, musingly. "It might go ill with me if it
were known that I had connived at the escape
of a Yankee."
' I'm not going to escape," returned Felix,
" save from these mounted banditti. I'm, in.
truth, on parole, and shall observe it."
"By whom paroled?" demanded the part
san.,
Felix's face -grew red.
" To a lady," he answered.
His captor- laughed, and tapping him upon
the shoulder, said :
" That won't do, my fine fellow -"
Barnaby was now within three yards of him.
His stealthy approach was yet unnoticed.
"I grant its- appareuit absurdity," faltered
Fehir, "and yet I swear to you it is literally
true."
" You have been sick," added the man, look-
ing at his prisoner, thoughtfully.
" Wounded and ill, and my life despaired of.
The lady in question lifted me from the gates
of death."
" A love-tale should follow," lie muttered,,
uneasily. "It's a pity to spoil so fine a begin*
ming." ,.
-Feli watched his face softening with intense
interest. Barnaby, just , behind the' partisan's
back, was gathering himself together and con-
tracting his muscles 't spring. Felix .saw. an.
ugly pocket-knife in his hand.  .
The voices of advancing pereonsreached theit
ears.

"Young man," said the partisan, sinking his
'voice nearly to a whisper, " care not to be the
agent of your death."
"Nor I of yours," said Felix, making a slight
admontory motion to Barnaby.
"I do not understand you," replied the Con-;
federate ;- " but no matter. Take my arm and
pass on with me to yonder negro-hut."
" Before you stir, swear ti me that you are
acting in good faith," said Felix, with an earn-
estness that the Rebel did not comprehend.
" It is a singular requ st," he inswered
gravely, "but it is granted.  Take..the will,
.however, for the dead, as we have small time
for formal swearing."'
" Look behind you," said Felix, "and know
that your life has been at my mercy for the
last thirty seconds. Your magnanimity has
not been lost; it has saved you from a hand
that strikes hard and deep."  1
" A follower of yours ?" observed the stran-
ger, calmly. "It was well done, and kindly
stopped. Let him come after us."         .
The humane Rebel took Westerly's arm, and
they walked away from the house together,
Barnaby sauntering after them, a knot of out-
Jaws close at his heels, shouting coarse jests and
singing'ribald songs.
"I would reach yonder wood, if practicable 1"1
whispered Felix.
"Look j hat way again !" was the response.
Felix turned his head, and saw some Confed-
erates watering their horses at a spring directly
between him and the wood..    ,
"1'will be necessary to'make .a long detour
to reach that point," observed his generous ene-
my. "When we have arrived at the but I s
have mentioned, you shall exercise your judg- a
meat about the best method of getting away.
Those fellows at the spring are eyeing us ; but
I am sufficiently known to avert unpleasant sus-
picion."  ..
Passing under the branches of some large
trees, and crossing a 'little swale, they reached
the hut spoken of in a few minutes. It was notT
empty, but occupied by an old negress, who sat
in a melancholy attitude on a straw mat, rock- a
ing her'shriveled body to and fro. The parti-
san drew back when.he saw her.
" It's of no consequence," lie 'said. "The s
old creature is absorbed in her own troubles,
and will not notice us. I came here to give I
you this weapon, and also a few words of ad- a
vice. If you would find the Federal gunboats,
your course is due south. If you value life,
avoid the small bands of guerrillas that infest
the country, many of whom are like the Skin- ti
ners of the Revolution in their habits."   'r
He paused, and handed Wester ly a revolver. in
The young man recognized the manufacture, R
for it was of Federal make, and he had, seen o
many such in the Navy and Army.             ti
" As tor your friend," he continued, "I can

do little for him, and he must trust to luck.
The mate to that sturdy joker"-he glanced at
the pistol-" I cannot well part with.
"Ishall.never forget this kindnessI" exclaimed
Felix, with enthusiasm.
"You would I have done me a serious mis-
chief, I think !" said the man, addressing Barna-
by, with 'a significant lifting of the brows.
" Death by a pocket-knife would have been dis-
graceful. You are a muscular fellow, and it
strikes me that your face is not altogether
strange."
The Rebel's'keen gray eyes pierced Barnaby
through and through.
" I wern't born in this kentry," said Barna-
by.
" I see you were not," retorted the Confeden"
ate, good-naturedly.
"Ther's a right smart chance o' blood water
alween me and the place I wer' born in," pe
sisted the Sandhiller, stoutly.
"I perceive," answered the Rebel, frowning,
"that.you prefer Federal to Confederate shod-
dy ; and I think myself that that fabric is.not
so vile as the other. Hemp, it seems to me,
should give peculiar sensations when your eye
chances to light upon it."
"As a furriner,"said Barnaby, sharply,."I'
do not understand your illoosions. I'm from
the low kentries, Sir."
"Very low, indeed I" sneered th Rebel
" Better have kept at your gamecocks and blue
elay.  In future, don't venture beyond the
range of the Yankee gunboats."
Then'to Felix:
" I must leave you. I have already been ab-
sent too long. If you do not live to tell the
story of to-day, 'twill be no fault of mine,"
. " I should like to know," said Felix, warmly,
" the name of my generous foe."
" That," answered the partisan, "is asking too
much. It would not be prudent to give you
my real name, and to give you a false one
would be to round a good deed with a lie. 'So
we part here."
He looked back after he had turned to go,
nd added, with grim humor:
"Mind your parole,. young man I"
These words were spoken in a way to mean
o much that Felix could not repress a smile.
"He won't forgit the leddy, Sir '' affirmed
Barnaby, winking slyly at the stranger, who made
parting gesture with his hand, and left them.
CHAPTER XVII.
The last scene. occurred before the door of
he negro-lint. The old negress, who had been
,ockiuig her shrunken body to and fro, mutter-
ng, ceased her genuflections the moment the
ebel had gone ; but neither Felix nor Barnaby
observed her,, both being occupied with the
ought of escape.
4 Come1. said the Sandhiller, "they'll git

1,


B6AiRNABY, TIIE SANDIUILLER.
tcad waitin' ffo ue. We've been mightily both- ger,  Felix saw a Wide erevice in the wall, and.
*red, but the way seeing clear at last."    looking through it, soon descried the object that.
The biek Woma     arose) and approached  had. excited the alarm of the black. It was a.
therh. 3arikaby she did not particularly no- hnah niovidg slowly across the foreground of the
tine, but Felix she silently exaihed With in- but. Sometimes the foliage partially hidi his
best:                                      'person front view, and sometimes inequalities of'
"I should a "," hnbsweoed the latter,. "'that the ground nearly concealed him ; but by-and-
oti- Way lies id.th at direction, till we reach yon- by he reached an open spot directly opposite
dei! tees, wheie #w iust turn to the left, and the door, and Felik recognized in..the unwel-
iteepiug ider boti of the bushes, gain the emtb6 prowler the hoi-seman who had given him
goint-timed 4t.-"'                         so much trouble, and had been the means of'
When lie had made this remark. he felt him- placing ,him in his present situation.. He now
IlT todehed upon the shoulder, and turning wore a fatigue-cap and an undress uniform. A
with a thrill of fear, saw the slave-woiman stand- light and elegant sword dangled at his side. lie
ng-it, his-back.                           walked with his eyes cast down, and his whole-
"'What do you want?" asked Felix glad that manner was reflectite. Felix watched him with-
the thiutteri was fd *o'se. lie drew lrckanlit- i kind of fascination, devoutly hoping that lie
tie, for she looked like an ancient prophetest. Would mtove, straight on. But it was not des-
-Hi- getSon was tall and thin, and her face had tined to be thds ;. he paused, was motionless an.
b Singular intensity of ekpreSsion.  Sadness, an instant, then turned on his heel and cavae
enthusiasm, and fiet'cene55 swept her sooty fea- auntering to*Ard the hut ; not 5eidently from.
-lks-by tdrns.                              Afry design; but from  that species of chance
I Want," she answered, impressively, " What which governs ill unpremeditated action. Bar.
gdu.anbt; had eterybddy Watits I But this ye''s aby die#| prudently into a orhet; his gaze
tid titd for that. I heerl What you said with  #dndering eagerly around the eirbuniscribed.
tilt tall mais, and I knoWs What ye Want. boundaries i of the dwelling - in seal Ch of some
You're one o' them yer they Calls Yankees. Weapon of defence.   The negress suhok her-
Yankeea !" she repeated, with a sorhfuil laugh. hand at him, and said:
"The whi e folks thinks we don't know What   " Be quiet, lad ; I'll see that ye come to ne
Yankees be. They think we're ahil'eu add take evil."
te tales of dhil'en as Gospel truth. But we  "tProvidence," murmured Felif, " is agains'..
ain't ohil'en; We're hypocrites-wise as serpents us."
but not harmless as doves. We go in for the  't Don't ye. say it!" whispered the negress,.
liberty; we hope for the liberty, and pra for rebukingly. "Providence is against no one.
it, But the time is long, and the steps of jus- Who does his best."
tie sems slow.  The yoke of bondage is    ."Who is he 2" inquired the young man, ter-
heavy, Sar, hind the Ohains of bondage are hard. ribly nervous.
We've heerd the Midnight cry down yer. It     " That yer's the ColonelI"-           -
soys': ' The Northmen are edmiui' I The North-  "Colonel who ?"
men are coming' to proclaim deliverance to cap-  "Allerton, Sar, and a heap o' mischief ther'
tivd, and let the oppressed go free I"      is in that yer head 'o his'n. Owns a great plon-
She spoke in a low and thrilling tone, and her tation somewhar, and had when this yer war;
yehe shone like a sibyl's.                  broke out, two hundred slaves and a hundi'ed
"Don't stay 1" Whispeted Barnaby, pulling horses, and a yelpin' lot o" hounds, 'sides goats
Felix by the sleeve.                       'and cattle. The niggers run away, and the,
What you say iS undoubtedly true," replied horses run away, and the hounds ran away, and
Felix, " but I cannot stop to hear you."    the goats and cattle run away ; and the Yan-
For a response to this, the woman laid hands kees got 'e all !"
en them both, and drew them suddenly into the She laughed a, silent laugh low down in her,
hut:                                        chest. "The North Star!" she added, bang-
"Hullo I" exclaimed larnaby, "what you ing her mood suddenly, "is a mighty power-
tihean by thet ? Better not tamper with edged fui star; it draws all; the darkeys artery it. In
tools,' as the gillingtine said to ktobyspear." all time , iis the history of all the wool, thar
"Hush !" hissed the sable prophetess, " I was never nothin' like it.  So many longi
mean ye no harm. One.is passin' as will do ye eyes has turned to it; so many aehin' hearts
no good. Stan' out o' sight, and when he has has prayed for it;. so many weary legs has.
gone his' way, go you yours, and God go with walked fort; so many miser'blo creturs has died
you."                                       for't I Thar's many skeletons a laying' with their'
" She nigh on't takes my breath away l' mut- heads toward the Notth Star, and their feet to
tSred the andlsiller, eyeing her askance.  the Southerh Cross.'
, If ye wouldd seb,'"added the egress, " look  The-wonian poured'forth this strains. a Voice-
throug iyer."                               so low that Felix understood  ere- As much by
Fdlle*isg the ditectioa of her long, dark An- the norermenta of her' lips' as: by the lighs

BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.                                 5
breath of sound that came from thom. That in a hole. Back went the door, and back went
feeling of reverence which the Soul Jnstindtively the mat, and down upon the latter sat the ne.
deders to strong feeling was wrung froth him. greys-to resume her abstracted and melancholy
NotWithstandling the feverish impatience of his rocking.
blood, he could not help turning an instant  At the threshold 'stood Allerton. Discovery
fdm his ceencentrated contemplation of Aller- wiC saved by a very narrow margin of time.
ton to give her a' look of wonder.           ' Ho* fare ye, Chloe ? Still rocking,, I se'"
Meantime, the position grew Critical.  On sail the Colonel, carelessly. "I wish you l
came his quondam guide, yet making freedent get over those'confonnded dismal Ways. I +toa's
baits., 1l was perplexed, if Felix could fadge like 'em."
by his manner.                               She became quiet, and rising, answered :
" Thinkin' of the lady 1" whispered the ne-  " We all has our w ays,'Massa. Have ye drove
gress. "Thinkin' of the lady I White folks off all the Yankees?"
*lavy hat a Wotuiad in their heads. It's nat'ral  " Never mind that, Chloe I" said the Colonel,
to the race. Horse, hound, and woman,-ands frowning. " If you were going to kill all'the
the last cotes fast.' And these you must mix rattlesnakes in the Mississippi Valley, it would
up withnigger to do the work.-'           take some time, wouldn't it ?"
'$ 'What lady?" asked Felix, with a suddenness  Adreful while, Mars'r!" returned Chloe. 9
that made the sable sibyl start.             " The young Mistress is at the house, isa'
rYe may well asekI Cotie ye from yon sh'e "
house ?"                                     He asked this with some embarrassmenut'
"Yes," said Felix. "I have been very ill feeling that his motive was well understood 1
there."                                   this aged chattel.
"Then you are the man that the lIouse-serv-  "Sure 'nough, Mars'r !" she responded; hea
nts has spoke of? Ay ! ay I I knew    it! asked, with apparent simplicity: "All thea
Somethin' told me the minute I seen ye that you men down thar your'n ?"
Was the sick gen'leman as had been usised so  " Has she been in good spirits ?" continued
kind by the missus. Well, you've seen the Allerton, without noticing her query.
lady, Sar, and I needn't speak no more of that.  "'Pears like she's had somethin' on her mine
What she is, you know."                    lately," said Chloe. "'Sides she's been takin
"He loves Miss Anna 1" said Felix, gasping ear' o' a youug friend o' hers, who was dreffi fly
for breath.                                wounded in a squirmish with some o' our folks'
" All the time, night and day !" answered the and ley' for dead on the field."
wOman.                    -   '.             Allerton came out of his meditative apaihy
"And what says she ?" demanded Westerly, in a moment. The blood mounted to hisfse,
witha great effort.                      and he startled Chloe by a profane exelaaa
" Put women out of your thoughts, Mars'r ; it tion.
is no time for sich vanities. Here comes the  " His name ?" he demanded, impetuously.
Coloel himself, and he'll soon be near 'sough  " Dunno, Mars'r! Duno more'n a child un
for you to ax him 'bout his courtship!1"  born. lIe's a Fed', and that's all I knows' buu''
" We must throttle him as he steps in I" said it. Lie's drefful good-lookin', they say. The
Felix, hurriedly. "Stand you on that side of young Missus has -been good to him as as
the 'door, Bai'naby, ready to grapple him. I angel 1"
dire not fire at him, for that would bring too  Chloe kept her eyes on the Colonel, and
many inquisitive eyes."                   noted every change of his countenance. 'She
" Harm him not 1" sibillated the old woman, was keenly conscious of where she was wound'
with an authoritative gesture. "I said I'd take ing him.
ear' of ye, and I will."                    'Is them Union guntubs gone, Mars'r P"
She turned and raised the mat upon which   Allerton sent the "guntubs" to a very bad
slie was sitting when they first saw her. - Felix place, and showed general unamiability
perceived'beneath it a loop of stout rope-yarn,  "Been p'ison sear'd o' them yer" added
fastened to the floor. She looked at Barnaby, Chloe, shaking her, old head thoughtfully.
sbd said:                                 "Shouldn't like to be ar'd off arter living' here
"Seize ahold of that yer, and lift. Be quick, till I've grown gray.  T'would be an awful
en, a:"                                   thing to be sold off out o' the kentry 'mong
The Sandhiller, comprehending the object in Abolitionists."
view, lost no time in doing as he was bidden.  She looked at him with a countenance .seem-
Graspiig the rope, but a small part of his. ingly troubled, and backed up this deceit with a
strength was required to raise a little trap-door,, sigh.
wh'ieh tin-uned on sonie very rusty hinges.  6 That is nonsense that I carenoth
Don a, chil'en, down, and trust the old slave. about!" cried Allerton. "'You know better'
Sos rthan to believe in such sensation-stories. Come,
NIx ad Darnaby disappeared like two rate Chine, don't gammon me. Give the devil his

i;
i


DARINADY, THE SANDHILLER.

due. The Fcderals fight from principle ; and
that's all tIaL's about it."
The Colonel shuffled about uneasily, much
affected by the womaL's information concerning
what had been passing at the house.
" I 'speet you knows a good deal, Colonel,
but'you don't know everytliing; 'specially 'bout
them yer pison Unioners. They'll jest 'ruin'the
planters, and that's a fack."
Chloe was very dismal, indeed. But Allerton
was intent on another subject ; he was thinking
of Felix Westerly's nurse.
CHAPTER XVIIL
UNDER FOOT.,-'
Felix and Barnaby, meanwhile, having passed
down a ladder; found themselves in a very dark-
place. So absolute was the darkness, that they
"eould not see the faintest glimpse' of each oth-
er; aud the hand held up before the eyes was
quite invisible. They were obviously standing,
upon-the ground, and were at first afraid ' to
mov.e lest they should disturb something and
make a noise. But when Felix heard Allertpn's
voice,the could not master hiscuriosity. Gras p-
ing the [adder firmly, he ascended far enough to
bring his ear near the floor, and in that position
heard the conversation. His interest was most
awakened when the Colonel reached that part of
the colloquy which concerned Anna. For the
tine being, he ceased to regret his detention.
But that which he wished most to learn was yet
withheld.,
While Felix was listening,- Barnaby began to
feel cautiously about him. By-and-by he found
a heap of straw, anl thrusting his hand into it
to satisfy a natural inquisitiveness, he touched
cold iron. Continuing his investigations, he
soon discovered that a farge number of muskets
were concealed there. Dn another heap were
kegs of powder, while in a third, were some
rusty sabres and flint-lock pistols. Barpaby
thought this a favorable opportunity to arm
himself; and after considerable groping, was
lueky-enough to find an artillery-sword, which
he buckled to his side with much satisfaction.
It was a heavy weapon, but Barnaby was strong,
nud not to he daunted by a bit of steel. Hav-'
ing thus prepared himself for warlike pursuits,
he felt his way to Felix about the time thlit tee
conversation reached - that point to which we
have brought it.
" You are infernal hypocrites all I" muttered
Colonel Allerton. Then he amended it by add-
hug:-"Hypocrites or simpletons; but let -that
go.. The negro-question is being solved by the
sword ; and I am inclined to the opinion that the
vexations black institution is on its last legs.
Let it alone, old woman,, for I wish your aten-
tion to other matters."
b That yer is not the institution you're think-
ia' of, Mars'r I" observed Chloe, significantly.

"You've got a white institution in your hest
now."
She chuckled quietly over this inuendo.
' The complaint is not in my head !" said the
Colonel, with a shrug. "It's under my vest
so the rascal didn't die?"
'" Whieh rascal, Mars'r ?" asked Chloe, some-
what of her enthusiasm returning.
"The Yankee officer I" exclaimed the Colo-
nel.
Then striking himself upon the arm with one
of his gauntlets, which he had drawn: off and
held in his sight hand, he added, speaking to
himself:
"Stupid race! They always affect ignorance
when they know the most."
"Is that 'o icer m your way, Colonel?"
" Terribly in my way, Chloe! More in my
way than I shall tell. So much in my way,
that it drives me mad to think of it."
Allerton's scowling brow expressed more than
his words.
" Don't!" said Chloe. " You look as if you'd
kill somebody if you had a chance. But -she
was mighty fond on him," she continued, in a
tone highly exasperating to the jealous Colonel.
"With him a heap, Miss Anna was. Night,
morning , and noon, they was together. What
they foun' to talk 'bout, the goodness only
knows."
" How thelhag tortures me !" murmured Al-
lerton. Then to the negress, a sterner expres-
sion giving additional gloominess to his visage:
"Is he at the house now?"
-In asking this he let his voice drop a little,
and watched Chloe's lips for an answer.
Barnaby, who was now a party to the convert
sation, gave Felix a push  in the ribs with his
elbow.
"lie won't leave as long as he can stay I" re-
plied Chloe, who seemed in no hurry to get rid
of the Colonel. "Shouldn't wonder, Mars'r, if
he took the oath of illegiance."
" Never !" thundered Allerton, striking his
foot upon the floor so vehemently that it made
the hut shake.
The frail floor quivered over Felix' head.
Barnaby gave him another push, which came
near tipping  im from the ladder.
What a wic ed look !" mumbled Chloe.
" What becme of the fellow who was with
him, half-servant and half-friend?" demanded
the Colonel.
" A tall. lanky, weasen-faced chap, Mars'r 2"
inquired the negress, innocently..
It was now Felix's turn to nudge Barnaby.
" Yes," said Allerton.
" With a large~ mouth, crooked nose, blear
eyes, sharp chin, lantern jaws, and face all
spattered with freckles, Mars'r ?"
" Something like that, I confess," assented
the Colonel, not very patiently.
Barnaby shook his fist toward the upper ra-

if

66


BARNABY, TUE SANDIILLII.
ionS.  Felix heard that fist stirring in the black tlave is gwine to ga
darkness, and Was afraid the Sandhiler would hard time here, but 1 shal
commit some imprudence.                    there.
A heap of shanks, Mars'r!" edntinued Chloe, $he put a peculiar aeet
who manifested on this occasion a singular fan- dwelling on it long, and wi
clty of not 'answering questions directly.   Felix and Barnaby hear
"Will you speak. " vociferated the.Coldiel. cock a pletol; the chal-aet
"He's- t,ar, dead sure, and he has yaller ha'r. then distinctly, .1e threa
Miss Anna keeps hint running' hither and you,  "I am more than tempt
A forarin' for chickens for the Yankee Colonel,  brains out I" he said, pOi
- Who told you he was a colonel?" growled Chloe's fearless face.
Allerton.                                    "Fire I" answered she, in
"1Come to think of it, Marsr, he isn't a coo- ones. "Fire, and I'll be
nel, but a gin'ral, and thar's a right smart chance this yer life to an old nigge
of Miss Anna's takin' up with him for  bus- stay yer but a short titne,
ban'."wo't wrong the                                         ung
If you belonged to me, I'd have you sound- strength that remain in i
ly whipped!" he retorted, grinding his teeth  "Au old fury I" matter
together.                                  dallying with the weapon,
"fI'm too old for that !i tnaswered Chloe, enough to fire.
boldly. "Miss Anna-Heaven bless her --will   "IPll go and tell her tha
lookout for this old colored woman. No one to see her, if ye like; but
dare lay a finger on  e." dying' nan I won't carry, i
"You are tinder her ving, are you?" sneered  Then changing her ta
the Colonel.  "Well, we Won't quarrel about more naturalfashion
that. I want yot to go to the houSe form,   "If you want to find th
and here's something to pay you for your trou- troubles you so mul, you
ble." -over yon, foi- you'll neve
lie drew some Confederate money from his beatin' the bush. As for
pocket, and offered it to Chloe, who asked What anything to say to her, w
it was; and on being told that it was the eircu- and have it off your diir
rating medium of the new Empire, declined to Mars'r Allerion, ye'll neve
teceive it.                                she won't mate with ye, n
Missus says," quoth she, " that thet yet pa- tate with the hawk, ot
per is only it to light cigars with"     buzzard.
"The devil sle. does l" said Allerton, ficree-  The Rebel returned his
ly. "Are we not baring our bosoms to storms and calling Chloe "a so
of lead to make it good ? Do not our swords stubborn witch", hurried f
uphold the Confederacy to give value to such to the relief of the parti
bits of paper as these? Do bloody fields go for cellar, who, after waiting
nothing in the estimation of your mistress ?"  ments, gladl saw the ig
You talk like a parson," said Chloe, giving dowi through the open tr
hiin a glance that would have awakened suspi-                 ---
eion had he been watching her.
Her lofty, prophetic mood was fast returning. I 'ia          W
The sniouldering fires of hatred were burning ' Why dia you keep t
within her ; but this hatred was attempered and asked Felix, as he emerge
Softened by a natural reverence of supernatural hiding-place, half blinded
fotees.                                    tion from night to day
" I wish you to go to the house," Allerton "Ask no more of a pers
said, presently, " and tell your mistress that nature! " answered Chloe.
there is one here who requires her presence at " But you haggled and
once. Inform her that there is a wounded offi- when I could I see no need o
oer here in the agony of death, who wishes to hour has been lost."
make dying confessions to her ears only."    "But ye heard something
" W lar is that officer?" demanded Chloe, in- ye couldn't heerd no t'othe
Hardly rising in her might.                archly.
"lie is here, and you have only to tell her  "And we heard somethi
what I have bidden you." -.bserved Barnaby, with a
"I tell no lies, Mars'r Allerton !" retorted the old woman. "As for be
Woban, her voice sliding to a higher cadence. faced, lantern-jawed, biea
Whatever I doe's, I tell no lies.  You can tell see it in that light from  m
1ie if ye *ait'to, dad lose your' soul, but this Be kerful, old leddy, how

re wers.  I've had a
l have an easy tithe
it on the w~ord easy,
th effect.
d the Rebel Colonel
eristid click reached
tened.
ed to blow your black
eating a revolver at
the voice of a Pyth-
honte first ! What's
r past work ? Icaa't
at the longest, and I
iheis ivitli the little
g aehin' old bones."
ed the Colonel, still
and not quite wicked
t ye're here, and want
the drefful lie of tio
fI die for it!"
iner, she added, in a
e Federal officer that
'd better be trampin'
r catch the bird by
Missus, if you have
hy dor't you say it,
id ? But mark me,
r tread together, fov
nore n the ehicken'll
he sparrow with the
revolver to his belt,
oty old owl" and " a
rom the hut, greatly
s imprisoned in the
anxiously a few mo-
ht, of day streaming
ap.
XIX.
)OS.
he villain so long ?"p
d from the pent-up
by the sudden transi-
ion, Sir, than's in her
I sparred with him,
f it. Aprecious half-
g, young Mars'r, that
r ways l" said Chloe,
ings which was liesI"
moody squint at the
in' a lanky, weasen-
r-eyed chap, I don't
ay present stan-p'int.
you speak ill o the


40                         BARNABY, TIlE SANDHlILLE.
absint ! To heern ye, one would thought that reckless daring. Felix easily convinced himself
I lied a mouth like thet yer trap-door ; but it's that lie had a powerful rival, and that convie.
a beauty 'long side o' yourn."            tion-gave a moody turn to his feelings that djd
Never you min' your potato-trap, young not -make him a most agreeable companion for
man, but git out o' thia yer as quick as ye can, the Sandhiller.
for. the- Phillistines will soon be upon you.  The distance to be traversed to reach #the
.Look yon'! The way is.clear for your feet."  woods was not great, but it was not sufficiently
She pointed toward the wood with her long, protected by shrubbery to cover them and pre-
thin arm.                                  elude danger. Pausing at the first convenient
"One word, good mother !" said Felix, lin- eminence, and looking backward toward the
gering.                                    house where lie had passed so many quiet days,
"I know what 'twill be, child," answered he perceived that It was entirely surrounded by
,Chloe, gently, touched by the tender epithet lie the, partisan horsemen.
had bestowed upon her. She laid a withered  "ookin' for us !" said Barnaby- "but ait-
hand upon his head, and added, impressively, tae behind time. I feel ,a tightness about the
"Yes, lad I their's a chance for-ye up thar to throat as I look you. Other's no fun in danglin'
the house. A better chance nor you..dream  at the end of a rope."
of; indeed thar is. Somebody has a good heart  Felix assented to the last proposition very
for ye, but I won't tell ye who 'tis. God bless graciously, and both proceededmore hurriedly.
ye, Mars'r !"r                               "Thet will and testiment o'.mine," continued
* And you, also I" returned  Felix, with Barnaby, to whom silence had become unbeara-
fervor.                                    bly irksome, "I do now declare null and void,
Just then, Chloe's eyes fell upon the artillery- and of no effeck, and I'd thank you not to exe-
word which hunr at Barnaby's side.        cute the-same, with the single exception o':the
Saudhiller 1"she said, solemnly, " speak not yellow snuff, which you ken for'ard the same as
of what ye foun' below, whatever it was. Two if I'd been hanged, dipstick and eteeteries, in-
words from you would give my old body to tor- elusyve."
ture and death; and not mne only, but scores  "Do not revoke your will too soon," answer-
of others.                                ed Felix, absertly.- "You owe the Conf deracy
-Tlier' was a good many weapons ther' for a a debt which you may yet pay before sunset."
smal- family ?" said Barnaby, with a knowing  So long as I ken't see the danger, I don't
leer.                                      keer for 't!" .continued the Sandhiller. " While
".I will vouch for Barnaby's silence !' said nothir' interferes with iny breathin', I mean to
Fel, quickly. "Fear not;. your secret is be cheerful, and keep, as Peter said, 'a stiff up-
afe.-                                     per lip,' without regard to kaldrons of bilin'
"I know it ! answered Chloe, undoubtedly. ile, or other diffikilties. Thor's a fair prospect
" Your way is thar."                      thet I shell again see Blue Clay Creek in the
She pointed, waved her hand, and withdrew  buddy afore I see it otherwise. But her' we
into her hut.  '                           are in the. woods. Which way now, Capting ?"
The simple faith of this woman appealed   "You know as well as I, having heard every
strongly to the admiration of Felix. As Barna- word that was said about it "
by related to him the circumstance of the dis  "I hear as little and see as little of Miss Anna
covery of the arms, it was evident to hini that as possible, for I know which is for my peace.
it would bear but one construction ; which was, IIowsomnever, I'll go ahead the way I under-
that a slave insurrection was in progress of de- stan' it, and if we find horses,'niggers, or other
velopment.  What risks those sooty people kedrypeds waitin' for us, duined if I shan't be
were incurring! They were like persons stand- happily disapp'inted."
lng over a magazine, which was liable at any  "We've been an hour on the way," returned
moment to explode by accidental spark or in- Felix, " and I fear that our friends may have
cendiary fire. As he hurried on, treading with become tired of waiting for us."
difficulty in the long steps of Barnaby, lie could  "A precious time we've hed with one bother-
not but render a passing tribute of justice to a ment and another. I'd give a month's pay for
race so oppressed and downtrodden as, the a small clicking, for I'm holler as a gun, and
negro. The conversation to which he had been faint as death about the pericodium."
an unseen auditor naturally mingled with 'his  " What is that, Barnaby ?"
reflections. ie was disturbed by the knowl-  "The pericodiuma," quoth the Sandhiller,"is
edge that Knna had a lover with so many per- a sinall umeroeker case as holds the heart and
sonal claims to consideration as Allerton, the fixing's. It wouldn't do, ye see, to have the vitle
lawless yet brave partisan chief. iHe had a good orgins a lyin' loose in the ehist."
"figure, and those careless manners which are  " I should think not !" said Felix.
specially pleasing to ladies.  .             " I was destyned," resumed Barnaby, "for a
Maiden modesty loves - masculine boldness, serging, and 1 studied two rainy Sundays with
and blushing sensibility is dazzled by deeds of a nigger doctor. Perobably few will never know

BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

what good it has done me. When I have a pain
h any part of my cistern, I know wher't is,
whih I shouldn't a done, if I hadn't understood'
doatorstuff.  Ther' wer' one medikil critter
thet used to'tend the cock fights, without fail,
which wer' a gre't benefit to my morril culture.
'What le didn't know 'bout kian pepper and
lobely inflat'em wouldn't' be worth looking' at
the dieshunary for.  His practice was kian one
day, and inf'.at'em the next ; and he wer' a dead
set on all hi dls o' pain. In p'int o' economies;
le wer' the best of 'em all, for his patients al-
waysgot well, or died right away.  He lied a
large cook box also, in which he'used to sta'
em, and parbile.'em tender, over steam. If, in
a few cases, they melted, it weren't no fault o'
his'n"
-'What's that you're tied to ?" asked Felix,
seeing the ponderous artillery-sword dangling
at his thigh.
"It's a weepon I" answered Barnaby, drawing
the blade from its sheath to exhibit its good
qualities.
' it will do to chop trees with. But it seems
to me that we should be near the spot spoken
of by the lady. Look in every direction, Bar-
naby. I'll sit down upon this log, for I confess
i'm ired. Go round in a circle, increasing its
diameter at every turn, and be cautious that
you do not expose yourself to any lurking Reb-
el."
" I'll go farther before turning to the right
or left," replied the Sandhiller ; and,after a brief
pause, proceeded with prudent deliberation, but
riot till he had admonished Felix notto stir from'
the spot.
CHAPTER XX.
Tnz POULTar-YAnD.
-Barnaby was born under a star which took
special delight in leading him into trouble.
Had it not been for this malevolent orb, lie
would have lived, moved, and had a being under
different eireimstances. A well-behaved planet
would not have dropped him on a sandhill, nor
selected a dipper and a clipper for his parents.'
If any power was to blame for his' ill-luck, it
was this bad-principled star. Nor was it con-
tent with starting him wrong; it continually
interfered with his affairs. It not onlywithheld
from him riches, education, and 'place in the
world, but it blinded and misguided him so that
he did not fully realize the loss of these, and as
a general thing, liked folly as well as wisdom.
There is no doubt but many persons are imposed
upon by the heavenly-bodies without knowing
it, and Barnaby was of the number.
But Barnaby was of an iron-clad disposition,
and had a spirit to repel'the assaults of fortune.
He could be tolerably happy where others
would, be intolerably miserable. There was a
great deal of mirth id him, aid he not unfre-
quently lagghed ,when he should have wept.

He never knew when to cry. Had he not been
deprived of this knowledge, he could have been
as wretched as a millionaire. The lower down
we go on the social ladder, the more fun we find.
Fun was very funny to Barnaby, and was the
will-o'the wisp that led his life ; he ran after, it
as belated travelers follow that deceitful light
No matter Humor kept him happy. His
spirits flowed on when his rations stopped ; yet
an empty stomach lie esteemed one of the worst
evils of existence.
Sandhiller had fasted since morning. It was
now four o'clock. Ile had breakfasted lightly,
prudently reserving his powers of mastication
for a prospective dinner much to his mird. Ho
felt the gnawings ani entreatings of his gastric
juices. aIn plain Saxon, he was 'hungry ; and
having walked some time without finding those
he was in search of, he began to feel like making
a raid on a poultry-yard, or 'asking for a crust.
of bread at the door of some negro shanty. 'Co'
do. him justice, he did think of duty befero
pleasure, and made what he called a rightt
smart circumbendibus " before beginning to
reconnoitre for pillage.
Barnaby knew all about the country. He
could tell by the lay of the land where to lo'k
for solitary cabins and isolated huts. Paused
he and pondered.    When a blue-clay eaker
stops and thinks, ten chances to one if he doea
not arrive at something.
He climbed a tree-and that was the climax
that he reached by cogitation, assisted by arus
and legs as muscular backers, Barnaby sawv a
smoke-a small shaft of black' smoke rising
above the branches, and dissolving in air. This
carbonic signal was not far off; and, slipping
down from his observatory, lie proceeded toward
it without further mental parley. It was not
long before he arrivedat one of those crazy
structures too common in the. South, inhabited
by thriftless whites, whose laziness being greater
than their amubitiopm, leads them to prefer squal-
id idleness to healthy activity and wholesome
competence. Barnaby knew the mark of the
beast; it was a signature that lie found on his
own forehead at birth, and be could no more
wash it off than Mrs. Bhiebeard could wash the
bloody key clean.
He halted on the margin of the little opening
in which the hut stood, and tonk a prudent sur-
ve of the same before advancing.
arnaby could see but one attractive feature,,
which was a'poultry-house and yard, both con-
structed of round sticks. This concern, though.
built with much more care and taste than the
shanty, was put together as a lazy man puts,
everything together-in a loose and shiftless
manner. The Saudhiller had a lurking tender-
ness for potilterers and poultry-yards, which
was only equaled' by his contempt of fowls
which scratch in the pfeceful walks of life. He.
valued that domestic race for its fghting quah.i

(,
i,
;
I' i

I


BARNABY, THE E$ANDIULLER.           63

ties alone. Game birds had beauties for his
eyes, and no others. He set his face like a flint
against Bothe*'em Pootrarns of all kinds. Dork-
ings and Shanghaes he scorned to mention.
Black Spanish and white Spanish, Polands, and
Hamburgs were of no account. It was the proud
and defiant game-crower that filled him with
delight, and put his enthusiasm aglow.
Barnaby heard a short and. decisive crow.
He detected the peculiarity at once ; it was like
.he quiek blast of a trumpet, which summons
conflicting squadrons to the charge. He knew
the battle-note of the game-cock. Without fur-
ther delay, he approached the yard, and looked
in. He saw, in several small compartments
made of sticks, some fine crowers, nicely trim.
med, and evidently in fighting condition ; while
one, more stately still, walked untrammeled
among a bevy of hens, going now and then to
offer combat to the others through the narrow
kerstices.
4 fine chapI" muttered Barnaby. "Though
I shouldn't mind matchin' ny Earl Derby again
him, two to one."   He glanced toward the
shanty, to see if any persons were stirring. Dis-
covering no signs of life,, he spent a few mo-
ments in examining critically the claims of the
different birds to excellence. He forgot Felix
and the horses and guides. He designated the
various breeds with professional correctness..
"Thet yer," lie said, in moderate solus, "is a
lngin bird, smooth, slim, and rether ugly ; thet
neat is a durned Mexican. The one right op-
A)osite is some kind of a Yankee cross, but a
plucky crittur in the pit. This yer is a little
t~uban game thet don't weigh more nor three.
ounds and a quarter, with a wicked eye, and
'never-say-run in it. Here's a English feller,
with a black breast, and another with a red. It
.tiust be free a nigger that owns all these yer,
tior white folks isn't apt to have so many to
onet, on account of not being able to buy 'em.
I shouldn't wonder," added the Sandhiller, with
another cautious look around the premises, "if
,a couple of ye went 'long a me ; for the Cap-
tin and I is pooty sharp set."
He put a sagacious finger to his forehead.
"Wher' then' is hens, then' should be eggs I"
said Barnaby.
Opening the door of the poultry-house, and
stooping quite low, he went in ana peered at
the nests.
"Here they be l" quoth he, with a scarcely
audible whistle of satisfaction. " Wonder how
'he keeps the old woman from    eating' 'em.
'Twould make a precious row if she took one, I
,allow. 'Tis a paguy pity to eat 'em But
these is war timed, and I'11 confiscate 'em, any-
ways.  May want to set 'em, Who knows?
Per aps I may git a chance to send 4 couple on
em to home, though   'peet I11 send some on
'em by a shorter route nor thet.' Ther's chink?
ngs in' these yep, widhla worth hevin'. Wher'll

I put 'em ? Here's a dozen, all told. Four 'II
go into the slack o' my cap. four more into my
.iaeket-pocket ; these four 'II be left, and two or
three o' them 'lI go a road I know of."
Barnaby suited the action to the word, put.
ting four eggs in hie foraging cap, which filled
what he called the "slack" of it pretty well, and,
which obliged him to put his head into it, in-
stead of putting it upon his head ; the other
four went ipt an outside pocket of hisjacket,
while two of those that remained, lie cracked
and swallowed. Confidant that the latter wer
safely disposed of, and that raw eggs were nour-
ishing, he sent the remaining two to keep them
company.
He was about to pass one of his long arms
into a coop, to secure a well.conditioned fowl,
when the sound of voices caused him to pause
in his operations. Foragers do very well when
they are not disturbed; but it is awkward to be
caught robbing hen-roosts. Barnaby stood still
and listened. When voices are heard, it is a
sure sign somebody is near ; and in this partic-
ular instance the author of the voices were
too near to admit of the Sandhiiller's escape.
Looking through the airy latticework, he saw
a man approaching on foot, followed by two
men on horseback. Barnaby, seeing what kind
of visitors he was likely to have, had sensations
that were decidedly disagreeable. Jie was the
subject of a predicament, and was fully sensible
of it. In entering the fowl-house, lie had closed
the small door arter him; but it being open-
work, it was no great protection to him. -e.
treating to the farthest limit of the small in-
closure, he' flattened himself against the sticks
and poles, and kept as motionless as a scare.
crow in a cornfield op a still day. Up came the
person walking, and up came the horsemen.
The latter, Barnaby concluded, belonged to the
party he had seen that day, and their sabres
clanked ominously as they rode.
The sight of the poultry.yard put the riders
in good humor. One, our forager observed,
wore shoulder-straps, but the other did not.
With the shoulder-straps was the authority of
the occasion. The Sandhiiler had seen enough
of shoulder-straps to know that they always
had the best of it, and were exceedingly dicta'
torial.
" Dick," said he of the straps, " tumble off
and wring their necks."
The individual called Dick had as much as
he could do to keep from tumbling off without
being bidden ; and being told to do so, tumbled
off with.wonderful promptitude, and threw his
officer the reins of his horse,
Now, it turned out that the man on foot was
the proprietor of this belligerent fowl-yard, and
his consternation was worthy of notice. He
threw himself before Dick with a terrified ex.
pression, that was ludicrous.
" Don't do that Ver t" he exclaimed, in sa.

cents of scared entreaty. " Dunno what yer s
'bout, YoU con't, Capting.  Them's the best f
games in te k  ,entry."t
" I'm glad o' that " answered the cruel Cap- r
fain. "'ve heard that them kind is the best s
satin'."
'eBest eatin' 1" repeated the cock-breeder. a
Is mported games the best eatin'!"I
gTwist their weasands, Dick I" quoth the a
mighty Captain, with an gfroid. Warlike pur-
suits render the hearts of Captains peculiarly
callous to touchinir appeals. This is the only
apology we can think of for this sanguinary b
Confederate.
"I tell ye them is worth heaps o' money!I"
protested the gamedman.1e'Twould do ye good 1
to see 'em fight. Goddlemity I"
The last startling expletive was wrung from
the fancier by the extreme urgency of expres-
sion. There are seasons when people must re-a
sort to extraordinary ventilation. And this
form of utterar co is not without precedent; for t
we learn by a captured letter that ote pious
Rebel private had prayed to " goddlemity"c
concerning the war and its probable ending.E
Nothing is positive-everything comparative.
Spelling is a mere matter of taste, and the tame
may he said of swearing. When swearing is to
be done, it is only necessary to swear profanely
to give strength to human sentiment. Profan-
ity is an evidence of civilization ; that is, itf
shows just how far civilization has progressed.
Of spelling, the same.
The Captain was neither shocked nor moved.
1141 lifted up his straps with his warrior shoul-I
lers, and repeated his command.
 Tell ye what !" added the distracted peti-
tioner. " Them yen cocks isn't mine."
" Don't make a fuss about 'em, then1" quoth
he of the straps.
" They b'long to Borrorseale, and they cost
himi hunderds of dollars. I'm his trainer, I
be,"
4;Give him a rap over the head, pick. We
raust scamper after the regiment as soon as pos-
sible. Allerton's hard on stragglers."
Dick, who made it a practice to obey orders
when agreeable to his feelings, knocked the
game-fancier down with his fist, and stepping
over him, pulled open the poultry-house door
and blundered in. In a moment there was a furi-
ous uproar and scuffle. The fowls set up a
deafening clamor, and out came Barnaby and
Dick, closely grappled with each other, rolling
over and over. 1Barnaby would gladly have re-
linquished his hold and taken to his heels, but
the Rebel clung tohim with the tenacity of a
bull-terrier. The Sandhiller squeezed him, and
punched him, and grasping him by the hair,
thumped his head upon the ground without in
the least affecting his hold. Barnaby wriggled
and aquiirmed, imitated the writhing and con-
tortions of au eel being skinned, and then

BARNABY, TI3E 'SANDHILLER.

wore like a trooper. Both presently lay still
rom exhaustion, the Sandhiller atop. The lat-
er, seeing' two eggs on the ground that had
olled out of his ca p, caught them up and.
imashed one in each eye of his enemy.
The Captain le:po nimbly from the saddle
nd ran to the aid of his subordinate. Seizing
Barnaby by the throat, he choked him till he
was blue in the face.
"Quarter !" gurgled Barnaby, and then Dick
let up".
Barnaby rose gasping, the Captain holding
his revolver to his head, and demanding, furi-
ously : " Who are ye ?"
Barnaby couldn't tell who he was immediate-
y; he had to get his breath first, and push the
hair and dirt out of his eyes.
He answered, by-and-by, with pathos:
" I'm a orphing ! My mother was a dipper,
and my father was a clipper.",Z
" What's that to do with it ?" cried the Cap-
tain, shaking the "or phing".
"I'm a honest lad'I" added Barnaby, inno-
eently. "I bears a bully chariekter, and I've
got recommendations to bome."
The officer shook him again.
" I'm to be shaken afore taken, and notarte'-
wards I" said the forager,,beginning to lose tem-
per.
"What toggery is this ?" asked the Rebel,
frowning wrathfully.
" Truth is," replied Barnaby, confidentially,
" I killed a Yankee and took his clothes."
"Did, didye 1" said shoulder-straps, inbredu-
lously.
By this time the private Dick had scrambled
to his feet, and was busying himself with siopp-
ing the egg out of his eyes.
The game-fancier, who was as much astonish-
ed as any one at the unexpected struggle, now
examined Barnaby attentively, and said :
"I know this chap. He lives down to Blue-
Clay Creek. He's quite a breeder hisself, and I
matched him once, and lost a five spot."
" Blue Clay Creek," repeated the Captain,
reflectively.' " What's his name ?"
The Sandhiller shook in his shoes. There
was likely to be an unpleasant denouement.
Events were following rather too fast for safety.
After a peaceful interregnum, this was a day of
disaster. Barnaby tried to give the fancier an
intelligible look.
"'Twas Barnaby something," was the answer.
"I ken almost remember t'other, but I ken't."
The officer took a slip of paper from his vest-
pocket, looked at it, and then asked :
" Was it Cruise ?"
" You needn't say any more I" replied the
game-trainer. '-Cruise is the other word of his
name."
" Here's a error," said Barnaby.
"Not quite," answered the Captain. "The
error was when you ran away."


I/

BAINABY, THE SANDLILLER.

64

"What do you mean by thet, Sir ?" cried
Barnaby, with spirit.
I We'll fix this little matter right away," said
the Captain, deliberately. Then to the private :
"piek, what are you about? Are you trying
to put out your eyes?"
"Tryin' to get the yolks o' eggs out of 'em,"
responded Dick. "le smashed 'em right into
my peepers."
"Never mind your eyes, my man. I want to
h'ist this deserter up here somewhere. Most
any o' these trees'hl do."    ,    ,
"Don't call me that'!" said Barnaby, brist-
ling."     -
"You game-man," continued the Captain,
with'a'business air, "go and get him a barrel to
stan' on, and a rope for him to hang on. We
know how to do these. things in the Allerton
Buishrangers."
'. You're - makin' trouble for yerself!" .ob-
served Barnaby, warningly. ".I never, writ my
nameto no dockymint."       ..
"But'you made your. mark, like this."
The'Confederate held up before Barnaby's
eyes the identical piece of paper on which Fe-
lix.had written. Bhrnaby's name and mark illus-
tratively.  'Having dropped it op the floor
without further thought, the officer, on entering
the house, had picked it up,.andwas considera-
bWy surprised at finding the'.name of a young
fellow who had enlisted in the company of
which he was then a member, and deserted with-
in twenty-four hours. He put the slip in his
pocket, not thinking that he should-have occa-
sion to refer to it so soon.   .-    -
" Thet's very sing'lar !" said Barnaby, with
a stare-of wonder. "I hev a twin brother o'
thet name,. who left home 'bout two months ago,
and has never been heerd of since."
." If we've got so near to him as a twin broth-
er, that's near enough !" was the consoling rer
joinder. "Dick, stir yourself, and don't mind
the omelet in your eyes."
" I ken't see to fix things," said Dick, "but I
ken hold him while you tend to it yourself.
When I freezes to a covey, nothin' short, o'
leath ken make me let go."
The game-breeder grew pale, but Barnaby
kept bis courage up.                  .
Dick came and took hold of his collar with
both hands, standing behind him. He of the
shoulder straps slowly relinquished his grasp,
and returned his pistol to its place, then turn-
ing~fiercely to the fancier, said :
"A rope and a barrel, you loitering rogue
Be lively 1"
The fancier went into his poultry-house, and
soon re-appeq~red with the articles wanted. The
Confederate snatched the rope from his hands,
and telling him to bring along the barrel, hur-
ried toward a large"o  with low limbs. IHav-
ind selected a limb 'moat favorable to his dire
purpose, he threw the rope over it, and exhib-"

ited a dexterity which showed he was not use
used to such a trade.
' -CHAPTER XXI.
II WHICH BARNABY IS NOT HANGED.
Most persons have a prejudice against being
hanged by the neck till dead, and against being-
hanged at all.  Barnaby Cruise represented
this feeling pretty largely in his own individual-
ity. He could see nothing agreeable in that
mode of exit from this world, and le resolved
not to go by that gate which has.certainly been
rendered rather unpopular by numerous trav-
elers. It was impossible for him to behold the
movements of the officious man who answered
to the title of Captain, with indifference.
It happened, singularly enough, that this ac-
tive officer did not disarm Barnaby of the wea-
pon which hung at his side. Standing at the
opposite side of his prisoner, with both hands
employed, he entirely overlookedthe artillery-
sword, and it is doubtful if he saw anything of
Barnaby, below-his shoulders. The private who
had'struggled with him with so much obstina-
cy, having had an egg broken in each of his
e es, was not in a condition to see very clearly,
1 he Sandhiller was, in fact, a blur before Dick,
as he stood grasping him with determined will.
So the marvell that the captive's sword was not
taken from him, was not so very great.
Yonag Cruise, having no .intention of being
hanged, mentally looked about him for hn
surest, and easiest method of escape. The
heavy instrument girt to his waist was a com.
fort to him; anti be silently fixed upon it as
the best mediator for his safety. He felt the
athletic Rebel pinching his shoulders with pain-
ful rigor ;-but that did not interfere with the
use of his hands, although it crippled their free'
action.. The means of extrication Barnaby
now considered within his'reach.
"Drop that thar barrel, you game.ebap !"
cried the Captain,,".and; lead up Dick's horse.
He come into the world on foot, and he shall go
out on horseback."
The fancier, who was rather reluctantly roll-
ing a barrel to the tree, turned to obey this
order.
" Though born like a beggar, you shall dio
like a prince" shouted the Captain to Barna-
by, with a humor that the latter could not fully
appreciate.
Barnaby was not a weak youth. He had a
great deal of muscular leverage on his bones ;
they were not large muscles, but they were
reliable. Life in the open air, athletic sports
with. whites and blacks, had developed his
strength and, hardened his frame. He was a
wiry fellow. Some said that his legs and arms
were too long for service; but the Sandhiller
had. always found those members useful, and
never in his way.
Barnaby kept his wits active, watching for

H I'
So
i'

i
3
',
E.
;i
f,

s
,

v

'4


B RNABY, THE SANDIILLER.

se."favorable moment, which he believed h ai
-oodie. He shook -himself like a young lion;. he
eeitedlhe hilt of his sword, Ard drawing forth
tha blade; thr~ist its point backward under his
left arin'into Dick's side. The latter clutched
his 'fingers niore tightly for an instant, groan-
ed, hoteid, related his-hold, and fell. Barnas
by Wis' free, bit not done with offensive opera-
tions.  The co'wardly cock trainer; was just
ahead of him,.leading one of the horses to they
Captain With which to give him a fitting start.
for another state of existence. The Sandhiller
ran after him nimbly, and smiting him upon
the righit ear with the flat surface of his wea--
pon, toppled 'hin dver, sprang over his body,
and outflanking the Captain, took him in.the
rear, an4 enjoyed the advantage .of a surprise.
Without stopping for knightly  courtesies, he
gave liiin a furious chop on the right shoulder,
and the armn which was uplifted in adjusting the
noose fell powerless to'his side.
To speak'moderaftely, therewere at: least six.
weeks of confinement inthat blow, and a crip-'
pled member ever after., Staggerng a few
paces in  bewildered cnsternation, he. finally
brought tip   ainst the trunk of a tree. See-
ing barneb,  and comprehending the cause of
his ,sudden pain, 'le fumbled for his revolver
with his left haud? and had preseneeof mind
sufficient to draw and level it at his now dan-
'garous enemy.
" Drdp iti" road 'the Sandhiller, flourishing
"ris reeking sword. "Drop it, or I'll hack' off
t'ather ari!"
This authoritative injunction was given a
moment too late; a bullet passed through the
Sun'dhiller's jacket while he was spealring, mk-
ing a hot track along the skin. Exasperat d,
Barnaby rushed upon his foe, and struck the
revolver from his hand with a pitiless stroke.
Three dissevered fingers fell to the earth with
the pistol.
"Quarter !" begged theCaptain, "quarter !"
" I'l .quarter ye presently 1" said Blarnaby,
"but don't be in a hurry about it."
The' Confederate held up 'his- maimed and
bleeding hand. 'The heart of the ruffians failed.
A realization of what he had lost 'made him
-sick and faint. His lawless spirit was met on
the threshold of his reckless career, and driven
backward by a terrible, life-lasting rebuke.
"How would ye like' banging' yerself ?" added
larnaby, pointing his weapon at the dangling'
cord. "Elangin's as good for you as 'tis for me,
isn't it?  Come,' Mister, what say to a dose o'
yer'own doctorstuff "      ,
" I cry quarter,' and I've got enough," an-
sweted the Rebel" 'ficer, completely cowed.
"I shall soon bleed to death."
"I should soon 'o'hoke to death I" retorted
Barnaby, with a glance atthe rope."'
"A jest-'a mere:reat," tammered the Cons
ederate '

" Then thet is, a jest ?" said Burnaby-" and
thet is a .jest!' lie, pointed to 'the' wounded
shoulder and the sabred fingers. 4These yer
are jests, certingly. A jolly thing is war, Rebe
ble  Belly things ,is ropes and swords, pistils
and :gunboats 1, Ther' wer' never. nothing , so
lively as battles and squirmishes. And think.
of the wooding ,legs, and the- cork hands with
prongs to 'eml"
The Captain scowled, and looked sadly at his
stumps, from which the red sap was trickling.
"I'd thank you, Sandhiller," said the Con-
fedgrate, in a humble .tone; " to take a handker.
chief from my pocket and bind up this.shat.
tered hand, and to do the same for this slashed
shoulder. Pm losing.too much blood. After.
you've done these friendly offices, give me a lift
to the back of my horse, and sometime I'll Jo
,as much for you."
",Call your Dick,.kladCapting, and look out'
for yerself !" replied Barnaby. "As for yer
animiles, I have. uses for 'em myself, and so Ilt
horror 'em till we meet' again,.which won't be
soon ; for it's my,'pinion that your fighting'
days 'is over,,and you'll, start no more to the
cry o' 'boots and saddles'."
Barnaby took; the horse, which,was, standing
quietly beneath the rope, by the bridle,. and
vaulting into the saddle, rode bask to the epot
where he bad stricken down the gaine-breeder.
He - found that worthy ".wite trash" seated
upon Mother Earth, feeling carefully the.side
of his head, in a laudable endeavor to learn the
extent of his .injuries.
2" How do ye like thet, you white-feathered
barnyard crower ?" queried Barnaby, leering at
the fellow triumphantly. " Git up, you Chitta-
gong,.and lead that hoss yer and give me the
bridle."
The trainer arose sulkily, and did as he was
ordered.
" You're a Guinea-hen1" said Barnaby, as he
took the bridle-reinfrom the unwilling hand of
the fancier. " All you're good for is tolollop
about and make a great'noise. It's a good plan
to hev ye out yer in the woods, out o' sight and,
hearin'. How's my ole frien'?'
The question related to Dick, Whom 'he found
still stretched upon the ground, groaning and
scooping' at his eyes, which were inflamed and'
swollen. His side was bleeding.
"Go ?long, you runnygade !" was 'the feeble
response of Dick.
" When ye git well," added. Barnaby, consid-
erately, " report herself to headquarters, You'll
find your Capting mighty handy with the tools
in futur'. He won't be in the way o' hangin'
his neighbors as.much as he wer'. He's 1ws. do
cQ?)eback; perobably."
The Sandhiller, had;heard French in the Army,
,and knew all about it..
Then to the trainer, with his natural assur-'
ance of manner;

IT


88                 BARNABY, TUE SANDIIILLER.

" Obleege me, Sir, by handing' out thet yer
spangled cock." If ye believe it, I've took a
sudden fae to that crower."
"I asw'r I won't I" protested the breeder, re-
helliouiisl.
Barnaby dragged out his smutehed sword,
and give the fancier an admonitory rap on the
sconce.
"1Goddlemity !" swore the trainer, wickedly ;
and literally surrendered his feathered favorite
at the point of the sword.  -
Barnaby tucked the fowl under his arm, where
it immediately crowed. The fancier was ready
to tear his hair out with vexation ; he had won
money on the bird, and expected to win more.
"He crows like a bugle," quoth Barnaby.
"My friend', I thenk ye kind."
"~Swar to me," entreated the trainer, "thet
you won't kill it. Ther' isn't sich another bird
in the State. He's worth a hundred dollars if
he's worth a cent. He'll stay, stranger, whar
ye put him. You ken bet your pile on him,
and win. No matter how big your pile is ; go
in on the spangled cock."
" I'll do it !" answered Barnaby, pleased with
the enthusiasm of the fancier, and was moving
off, when the man called after him :
" Look yer, Mister ! wouldn't take one o' the
chil'en or my ole woman, and leave the spangled
coca, would ye ?"
" This cock," replied Barnaby, with grotesque
gravity, "is parst out o' my jurydietion. It's
confis'icated to the Guvviment of Uncle Sam.
Good-bye, trainer. Be a good Smeritan, and
pour ile, and wine, and other fluids into the cuts,
bruises, and contoosions o' the wounded."
With these benevolent recommendations, the
Sandhiller rode away with the spangled cock
under one arm, and the bridle-rein of the led
horse over the other.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE GUIDE.
Felix, having become weary of watching- and
waiting, fell asleep.
Passing into this peaceful condition, he escape -
ed, for the time being, all his difficulties. It
must here be written of him that he slumbered
so unconsciously that he did not even dream of
Anna, which fact is against all romantic pre-
cedent. After swaying from side to side a
while, he finally found a resting-place against a
dry limb, and slept as profoundly as a frog at
the bottom of a Well in the winter of the year.
He was awakened from this blessed state by the
shrill crowing of a cock, which, in the first
flurry of consciousness, he mistook for the roar-
ing of a lion. Starting to his feet with the un-
certain movements of a drunken man, he looked
about for the disturber of his repose. There
was a vagueness of time and place on his mind,
and the first glimpse of the trees was strange;
but a moment of thought put him right.

" Right about face !" said a Voice. And, tart
ing completely round, li beheld Barnaby-
mounted on a fine horse, with another in hand,
and a spangled cock perched upon his arm,
bristling Aid scraping its wing against its leg,.
The Sandhiller looked sublime iii his compla-
cency. Felix could do nothing more than won-
der, for a space, at the sight before him. When.
his surprise had abated, he asked :
"XWell, Barnaby, what luck ?"
"Tollable," said Barnaby, benignantly:
" Are these the horses?   Whe'e is the-
guide ?".                      er   ste-
" These is the bosses, you see, and I am the-
guide of 'emI" answered Barnaby, with that su-
perb nonchalance which he could sometimes
successfully assume.
Felix readily perceived that there was some-
thing mysterious in all this, and observed,
yawning, and re seating himself on the log:
"You have a story to tell, no doubt,; but.
judging by your looks I don't think there is-
time to tell it at present."'
" I've lied one o' the most sing'lar experienx
thet perobably ever happened in this part o'
the kentry ! And, pe'r'aps," added he, drop-
ping his voice meditatively, " it's equil k en't be
foun' nowher'. Bit Qf these," he observed, in
the same tone, after another pause, "we won't
speak till everything is according. These isn't
the animiles- or as some says, camomilese-
which we was induced to suspect to heear-
rove."p                             evr-
"I believe I can understand part of that,"
replied Felix, tartly.
"Speaks well for your intellijunks !" said the
Sandhiller, with a commendatory nod. " Hevn't-
ye seen nothin' of 'em? I allow you hevn't,
though, for darned if'ever I seen anybody sleep
so like a dead man, as you was sleeping , when I
come up. If it hedn't been for this grower,
which I've confisticated and named Abe Lin-
kum, I don't think I should hey got any sense
into ye. I shouted three times severially a
the tops o' my lungs, when this yer bird flop-
lied his wings and sounded his horn. Lord IiP.
wer' like the eraek of a rifle, only penetratinger
to the drums o' the ears."
Barnaby balanced the spangled cock on his,
finger, and he really looked magnificent in his
pride and plumage.
" There's a Abe Linkum for ye !" quoth the:
Sandhiller. " What do ye think Mrs. Linku
and the little Linkurn's would say to him? I
wonder Father Ab'ram hedn't taken to cock-
fightin' instead o' rail-splittin'. It's a light and
putty business. Orders fr m the entry exe-
outed with neatness and dispatch. Onexbes
wagers and the t'other wedges. Thet's the dif-
ference atween the President and I. But I shall
bring no railing' excavation agia him.  The.
Bible says, rail not at gov'ners, 'cause you duo
no how soon you mayn be a go'ner yerdlf."

BARNABY, THE      SANDHILLER.                             69
" You'll bore me to aeath, Barnaby, with age across his forehead, quite covering it, while
our nonsense "                            his eyes were concealed by an exaggerated
yourI've boed severial to death, of late 1" said green shade. A long strip of court-plaster'ran
Barnaby, with grim composure, drawing his from the outer corner of the right eye to the
9bloody artillery-swords "In testimony of thet chin, probably 'to hide an u~gly scratch received
-same, observe which."                       with his other injuries. Neither th badage,
"You've been killing chickens, you rascal I" nor the green shade, nor the elongated shred oa
answered Felix, beginning to be interested.  plaster, added to the interest of this lad's ap.
" More 'than thet I" protested Barnaby, sol- pearance. Felix would have liked him better
-emnly. "I hey slew men ! You'll find 'em    had he been less a martyr. He looked him 
dead wher' I left 'em, a-writhin' in their gore." over suspiciously, not wholly satisfied with his
" Your dead men are always alive enough to guide.
-writhe !" retorted Felix, laughing. " You shall  "Here's a rebble hospittle broke loose 1"
tell me all about your adventures after we get said Barnaby, making a comical mouth. "We
.atarted. I think we had better wait a few mo- shell want a sprinklin' o' starch-tea, Capting."
ments longer."                                The youth smiled; and Felix, who had die.
"'Bout: five ci'clock by my time, which is the covered the blunder of which he had been the
sun," said Barnaby, dismounting, setting his victim, reddened, and bestowed upon his quaint
feathered prize upon the log, and talking to follower a squelching look. He addressedhim-
him in a most confidential manner. In the in- seif to the lad, saying :
-terval of waiting, he busied himself in twisting  "You are probably the person spoken of by
a string of bark, to secure his gay captive Miss Conway."eo                    e
against sudden flight.  Having knotted this   "Under the name and style of Andrew," said
around Abe's leg, and keeping the other end in Barnaby, pushing himself into the conver-
his hand, he felt relieved of apprehension, and sation.
held himself in readiness to relate the greatest  "I am that Andrew referred to by my cousin
adventure of his whole life. As he was about Anna," answered the youth, with some embar-
to launch upon this prolific subject, two per- rassment.
sons were discovered approaching, whom they   " And a good deal hacked and slashed, at
at once decided were the parties expected. that !" commented the Sandhiller.   "Should
Both were mounted, but Felix could see no led think your intelleeks would be rather loose by
horses,.and was not quite satisfied. However, reason o' the contoosions, stabs, jabs, and gash-
as one was a negro and the other a youth, they es. Yer head isn't o' no gret sconsequeux at
had little to fear from  their coming. As the present, peroblably."
distance between them lessened, all doubts were  " Barnaby, you'll greatly oblige me by giv-
dispelled.  The features of the black struck ing me an opportunity to speak,', said Felix,
Westerly as being familiar, His surprise was loftily.
-considerable at recognizing Old Sut, with whom  "Certingly I" responded the Sandhiller, gra-
he had been friendly at Borrowscale's. The ciously.
sight of this white-headed African revived as-  The spangled cock lifted up his shrilly voice
sociations that were not altogether pleasant, and crowed.
and he beheld his sooty face with little pleas-  " Blast that cock !" muttered Felix.
-ure. He had taken such an antipathy to the   Such portions of the youth's face as were
imperious planter, and his short imprisonment visible, grew notably red ; it was evident that
had produced impressions so disagreeable, that be repressed his risibilities with some effort.
he desired nothing more sincerely than never  "Look yer !' quoth Bainay. "I'd then
.to see any one or anything to revive those re- ye not to damn nothin' o' mine, 'specially a in-
membrances.                                 nocent crower, as stan's on his own heels."
He greeted Old Sut coldly, and was not pre-  "We feared," said Andrew, "that we should
pared to give him many tokens of confidence.  not find you. We had the worst luck in the
"Glad to see ye, Mars'r Easterly I" said Old world in getting started. Two of the horses
But, slipping from the saddle.              we had counted upon were taken away by Al-
"I'd thenk ye," interposed Barnaby, " to be lerton's Rangers. Besides this niisiortune, my
-a little kerful, and not to mistake the p'ints o' cousin was greatly hindered by her unwelcome
the compiss in respecks to the Copting's name. guests, and at one time we-utterly despaired of
Don't be a heating, nigger."              fullfilling our promise. But finally we are here,
The black looked up and down the Sandhill- as you perceive, with these two animals. I ob-
-er's entire length, and remained contemptuous- serve, however, that you have already remedied
ly silent.                                  the matter by helping yourselves. By what
-" Who are this youth ?" added Barnaby, eon- chance did you secure these fine-looking orea-
.stituting himself spokesman.                tures r"
-The youth referred to was extremely young-  "Master Andrew," answered Felix, "my man
cloaking, and of slight figure. He wore aband- Barnaby can better uply to your question than

l


70  t]MBY,, TIDE .SANDILLER.

any other person, and le is burating to tell his
story. -'                             -   -
''" Loramity 1" exclaimed. Old Sot, who had
been;yeilig th Siiidbiller sa horses for the last
S two inintifed. "Tlas'gber arie tlhe'very dien1
tslaalhonses that='fusr toice'way by Mssla AI-
"' ertdn's"Rushwheekers!'4 '  ' *-      .
-"lTrouIld Itf be  eiig'lar 1" replied Barnaby,
'withioiposure. ""I lied to haeshup afeiv see-
rtioies'b    r'o  d.i same I'abi'aforI could' biing
swhy tte~e ltedrypde."            *
'ib Sandbillet'drew his sword and coolly be.
gan to wipe it on the grass and leaves.' The
atution was very eoixiol, althdiigh linfeuded by
ti. ariesorh youth to.be. very impresse and'
sugestive'of recent slaughter
- a   !'let's been a carnage-!" said he. "All I
ken'say is, ther'&amp; been is=earnsee,'1
*'rld :l5tj winked and blinked in a dubious'
mahne: "Weaterly mounted one of the horse.,
and Andrew began to' move. Seing, th 4t
(" rohi ilg" wte ntho rider ,  arnab'y erO ph11
picked up Abe and swung his 6ngb hd Ito
the saddle. Hleecould 'not have Held a' lady's
ibo iquet moretenderly than he held the speng-
led cook.  He bandied him as if lie werO'mai'de
of 'fo.n, .iahd woil4 dissolve at a rude touch.'
--The" intelllgenitfir;,'hiW bad pi-hbably been,
pitted every day of its life, seemed perfectly
'faf iliarf. with* the corbpaniosli 'f minand'
- submitted'to it 'with reriarkable dodility, as if
'both'Vei-e equdlly-honored" by the friendly re-
s  onshtip.  -  -          S-
CHAPTER XXIII.
couOrS ANNA.'
It was now past:ve W'clock. It was calm
aid still, and the air slept lazily in the woods.
S The'sin- threw its long, red' rays softly across
their pathway. It was an afternoon which, un-
der ordlury circumstances; would have dis-
posed the mind to quietude and thought; but
Felix did not share in the 'soothing regese of
"Nature. He was neither content ith his'guide
nor the situation. The presence of Old -Sut
ge''hmunpleasant misgivings. .'He was not,
isfulof the aegro, but of the orders n-
der 'which le was acting. That' Miss' Anna
Conway should be suffeiently familiar with the
planter Borrowaeale to command the services
'of One of his glaves,- was, in itself, a startling
thing to a nian who had 'ventured upon such
hopes, and who had relations so pecubar with
That gentleman.     .   . -        a
"eH did not sit easily in his saddle. It seem-
ed, to him 'that ;Fate 'was about' to dash his
brightest anticipationss.,
4' Where are-we going ?" was a question that
oontinilal'ly pressed itself upon hirn.
-Riding to the side of Andrew, lie resolved to
settle -this qOuery to his satisfaction.'. 'With' a
hesitation unaccountable to himself, lie put' the
interrogatory point blank to 'his yout~fu1' 09n-

ductor, who received it without apparent sur.
prise.
" I am." answered lie 'acting under thecoin.
ands 4   n  'cousin, viss CQ .ay,'who. sa
Teen'of late foi' hostes's and nurse and, we.
authority I believe, you knowledgeg.
Felix took offhis cap,4d epiated with ro.
fonud respect :
iWhose'authority I acknowledge."
4sif  iis were not quite enough, h addd
"Whose' authority' 1' confess wit j~ ua
oleasuird."    dith,
"Itpink she didme..the, honor to speak o
me to you?" continped'Andre'.      p p  o
Westerly gave an affirmali e bow.
"I perceive 'thdt'  an"nquite correct. 3y
cousin .is methodical, end it there 'is'apytying'
h   I" dlii'd, I coufessO it is iet  Ion'
you, thinithat methyid is purticulaidisa ee-
able, Mir. Northerly ?"p
# entertain unqqali ied contempt for Andrew.
To 'thl the trutlib the youth went 'pn, be-
coniing'.garrplo s, "I'n udder some  cuiia-
ryabligations to Anna, and fnioud      to
a ver bad plae'for her,  f he bat naps leer
fin~gers Arid ' ignifies' that to 'ber ' leasure.
'As youandI' are to bo     be,      esu
terms, there's no 'treason in saying this t
Felix gave liis Bide; a withering Ior. If li
hated nothingg, it;  Was a' conceted ipxe mb,
and'this Andrew gave every indication' Ibeinig
spch.
"'Consin Anna," he rattled on, "is walp
enough in ler vay, bust she is croplehy. '
" ShOs which?" asked" Barnaby, who .lad
ridden' near enough to hear' 4he4 conversation,.
and frowning , in a style adapted to, a boy of
Andrew's age ; whidh'wa, in a inild form.
he lad waved his hand protati.y ..  but
vouchsafed no other reply to te .  fPe us  clay-
eater.
"-I might as well tell. younow, as at any
other timd," saidi Felix, with severity, "ahgt I
"object to hearing that a'dy's name mentioned
with isrespeot."
8ppress'your resentment, my, friend, and
modify your eialrous fervor,' replied An.
drew, with the utmost nonohalande. "I'm a
privileged character."'
He 'gathered up the, reins ,daintily, and -took
his time to express himself. Wepterlywatch ed
his movewentd without a grain of charity.
"Pve played at row pa with Anna' for a long
time, and she never broke my heart,,akhoug
show's a great coquette."
" You and I, Master Andrew, look at ladies-
with different eyes. I never saw a young wom-
an so free-from the foibles of her eex."g
The spangled cock crowed again ; its ,harp!
short note went ringing thropdh the woods.
Feit can'ou ussup  a st; at d'',grunjble4

ainh affects the  eh, and refraets 'the "rags Adrs, in  ytb   kai$  d
f ug a]iss   they become rays of be'atty to  r'       nFehold1 he    fet
1hjridiiaiain"            -society," returned Felix, ' if         ii '  stY.'4i  ea
mThan   you  for your  ood  'pnion  "  sliatingly  of yourtousin."
Ia look like Anna i" added  Andrew, with   "Friend Nwrtjrly-r .
reigtcnfidece.      ''     Fe.            "Westelyf ,yon are willing I" interrupted
uoee   i yu d   " .muttered Felx.    Felix, with hauteur.
"   eyil you                       '      With p     S re,i." W st "of 1I%  are
Andrew turned his face toward Westerlyen- equallyinliffetent to  e.r
reb hdkg previous 'rebukes. .       pt-k~rwhen you t  ed m ,er ,YI
The 6ung   na lanced at his guide, butt o cousin behind the oura  ' it
miieh prej  - diedito be'en impartld judge. 'et see hni' before the ifodt -
"'Iouh obut own that the fellow's mouth differekeAbet eet thg reen-oxadg    ni-
reeblanco that I'see is1,that' dr  "Might I 'take the liberty, Sir, to   atia$
are beardless" he replied, telling a tlesy'ou hove seen in your do'sin-that-sn  e-
2e          to e  e   a .      g         feetly' tight and proper,minodest'aiddsehti
"'kou look to me like a Hindoo god, more "ingY "alth                              f
,pox you do ,like your cousin, if she be, your He"tied to' soften his voice' to
cousin, which there' might be reasons with some, carelessness.
f~r doubtiu',"-'ut in Ilarnaby.             "Different" persons 'have dfern'tldaso
'i  car'ful,Sar," whispered Old Sut, ulling 'what isright and' proper ; ald there 5e0 s
enab ,bythe sleeve. " Massa Andrew is d    ' the sun. As' for Annat' miodesty, I  itd
S r 'ffa fiery."                            be the lhst person to"speak' ofit      or
]et him fire away 1" returned 'the Sandhil- her being charming, you 're pef-h  , er
Judge  of such  thriigs  than  ilsyself.. 'I'tn  #&amp;y
,Andrew took no notice of the interruption.  sure,'however, 'that 'she never "dha rd me to
"Sr'eeras you will," he wenton, quietly, " but any great extent  There are,bet*eepyod ad
"ll',tiiworld cannot convince me that my mouth I, many qualities which J 'hqartily wish shs' e-
is npt like Anna's, although I do not claim it as messed. As to personal' defects, .sie's'a''h'e
bi' in the least c editable to myself."   cross eyed,'and  have seen smaller lgl' md
egnt all this, my friend, does' notanswer the feet."
qeustihinwhich. I asked you," observed West-  "Ii say, and will maintain," cried ]3ariS.1y,
nely, urtly. "If it be no violation of confi- "at the lp'int o' this artillerysword, #1 ibot or
ce, I..hould like to know where I am go4 horseback,,that' she he'sat a 'cidss-07e iniier
ing t"p'head, and her han's is too. snal to feed'heif,
"'Trisoners of war," replied-Andrew, "oiglit and her feet too 'little'to' wilk on."
not ,to',expect the same treatment they would  Audtew laughoeo.
'reehive at hDome among friends. If, you have 44Well,'said, Sancho Panibi, you 'shial'isae
Ifath in.-Miss Conway, I 'do not- 'see that 'you an island to govern when you' are ofage, t
need trouble'yourself about it. You should your spangled cock'shall be your'rime 9}4'n.
th  yrlueky stars that you have fallen ter,' provided he lives long' enough.
-it  n     o such, god hands. There is but one thing the impertinence of the speechh on 1ae4du'ut f
forme.to do,.sn01 that is, to keep my word, or the ridiiuloisiess of the author, of it"
thrWords,tu tp.perform what  promised,  "0If I were't on ni peril o' honor,"mitVed
t falggl~  You have only to submit to the Bairnaby, " I'd lie violent hanis'on"tIs'  r
gpne us yet, silly woman"who became 'surety chilling, whicherews as if he'd it' his 1  s,
ufor ypur non-escape. Should we pass in, sight instead' o" hevin'ei toWin.  eotbsaoni '5r,
of'the Federal pickets, you will ride 'straight being' a cousin to Miss Aniina'heken 'gd 'on1t
lter   Iwithout the lingering looks 'of 'Lot's mhnprity, though' the s nilit'md atwis  are
wife,, Shoul'd we trot into -the teeth of the Fed- iiut'i Vanarkable to the nok c'eye."
'{1 g i~oata, it vill be all' the same, 'provided  hls gehue eresature," o ssvde dd A ;id lm,
ya pare ggvertied by the code of honor."   an inffected! drawl and s'ligitlis,  l rl
'%iva yourself no uneasiness on thatadore, ;quite'un'l lin.  I' ind1igohi to the  i
k &amp;er Ali rsw," Felix" answered, briefly. "1At- try, isn't he, SoutherlyI"

70

71

BARiV ABY, THE SANDIHILLER.


BARNABIY, THE SANDiTILLER.

-"Oh yes," laughed Felix; "lie was born
among the chivalry ; on the, very borders of
your father's'plantation perhaps."
' My peril o' honor-won't hold much longer,"
aid Barnaby, shaking his head. "I ken feel it,
givin' way. There'll be the devil to paywhen'
it breaks."
'' the Sandhiller shifted the spangled conicto
14 other arm, and scowled at the youthful Ain-
drew, who rode on unconcernedly, following a
s-gyowi track that wound to, the right and,
among the trees.
CHAPTER XXIV.
BARNABY'd'"GnEAT rIGHT.
ITleir progress was necessarily slow, as the
srowness of. the path aid the natural obstruc-,
Bo is zof ,tile way did not - admit of speed.
&amp; ndrew,.who had at first taken the lead, grade--
dy ell- back'till Old Sut was finally in ad-
ece.  The youth spoke .a few word, to him
in a ldi tone as lie passed; to which the black
repliedd "Yes, Mars'r," -and afterward seemed,
duly .installed, as guide. When the width of
the ,way permitted it, Andrew reined up his
horse,'and rode at the bridle-hand of Felix, who
bad iot that relish for his society that he should
have had' for Miss donway's relative. It did
appear to the Federal agent that the latter took
special pains to thrust his company upon him,
even after he had ,given him unmistakable
signsof disapprobation.  Felix did not like
draw) and lisp,,and this'conceited cousin now
anethen fell into that fashion
TO write a plain matter of human nature, .it
must be said that Westerly thought more of
Anna than of the situation. He seriously
doubted whether lie had not committed a grave
error, in yielding to her wishes, and leaving her
Mt the house. He had understood her to say
that her safety was provided for; and he had
by some means received the impression, that
ahe would join the party at some point on the
way, or at the place of destination. It is proba-
ble that the hope that this would be the case,
produced the conviction. Lovers are prone to
expect ,what they desire. He had a feeling of
4sanisfaetion that he could neither overcome
or, disguise. Without knowing it, he was
really very poor .company, inclined to tacitur-
nity and to crusty answers.
'Old Sut said but little ; but it was observable
thathe treated the wounded youth with marked
respect, turning often to look at him. Several
times. he was seen to shrug his shoulders, and
indulge in quiet humor, but his deportment gen-
erally was grave and attentive
It was past six o'clock, and shadows began
to deepen in the forest. Thus far the ride had
been characterized by neither haste nor appar-
sot anxiety on the part of those who had as-
Samel.d the responsibility of the undertaking.

1'I

The Sandhiller was the most unconcerned of
the four. There was but one thing that an-
noyed him, and that was, being kept from tell-
ing, his late exploits.  By' and by, Andrew
Jkindly relieved him of this vexation, by asking
him to inform them how he procured the horses,
as Old' Sut had settled the question of the legiti-
mate ownership.  While Barnaby was clear-
ing his throat for this agreeable task, Felix ob-
served:
It seem-,quite lonely here. Are you sure
we are not running, into danger?"
He 'looked 'at Old Stit, scorning the opinion of
Andrew.
" Hard to tell, Mars'r"!" answered the black.
"Nobody dunino when there ain't no danger in
this yer kentry, where there 's nothin' but wars
and 'sturbinces."
"Thet'll do !" said Barnaby ; "speak short
when. you're ^poke to. Thet last rymark wer'
long enough for a white man. The hour is now
quiet, and I hope you'll take pattern arter
Natur', while I gretify Master Andrew 'bout
this adventur', which is better nor a novel, for
the reason thet it hes the benefit o' being' true.
My way is, when I've got'a story to tell, to go
right at it, and tell it simple 'and jest as it hap-
pened, without addin' nor. takin' away nor the
use o' scperfluvious words."
"'Brevity is-the soul of wit', somebody has
said," remarked Andrew,
"Thet person ver' no fool," replied Barnaby,
patronizingly. "Should you chance to meet
thet man or any o' his'fam'ly, give 'em my love,
and tell him I'm travelin' thet road. If a chap
keu't say what he's got to say 'thout going' to
the dickshenary, he'd better hold his tongue.
If you'll be good enough to kerry this cock,
young feller. -I ken git to the marrer o' the
story 'sider'bly quicker, as I want to use both
han's for the g-stur's in the rumphatie parts."
" Carry your own cock, Sandhiller, and get
at your story as soon as convenient. I do not
.want my ears bored by an exordium," respond-
ed Andrew.
" -dunno a exo'dium from a rat-trap 1" said
Barnaby. " But-here goes. I was born of poor
but clean perrents."
"Is there any need of beginning back so far ?"
inquired Andrew.
Perceiving, that Anna's cousmn was alarmed
at this commencement, Felix did not interfere,
maliciously hoping the Sandhiller would be- as
provoking as possible, and gave him an en-
couraging wiik.
"My mother was a dipper and my father was
a clipper.. My mother dipped siuff with a
swabstick chawed at the end, and my father
clipped cocks and horses with a' pair o' shears.
I should been a only son if I hedn't hed broth-
.ers and sisters. 'lhem. which was born first
wer' older nor I, and them which wer' born
arterwards was younger. Hed my perrepte

72


B ARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

died I should been left a. orphing at a early
~dge." '
"'Before- you go farther, good Barnaby"
,drawled. 'Andrew, with unibated condesepnsiop,
" be kind 'enough to soften your voice for t
jars on my nerves like the filn gof a sad."
Old Sut laughed, and eedn I3argaaby was
somewhat put 4own.
SBv'thet rymarik;" he resumed, "you've lost
a  all my his'ry atween' thet tine td to-day.
You'll never lnow what you've'.lost, foi things
happened 'in my fam'ly which would brouaght
eta perominently before 'the public liedbthey
leaked out.' 'ihed a'nnle was a public speaker'
aid who-would probably hev made me his'lieir,
'had he not fell from a istagin' whilee addrissin' a
large and intentive orjence."
"When heroes tell their exploits' theirfami-
lies must, be dragged'in,"bserved Andrew.'
In my opinion,:it makes no manner of differ-
enee where person is'born, no- who his parents
are. A man's' deeds are alllle publi' care to,
know. Give us the'heroes' and leave'the'log-
cabins,- corn-dodgers, and ,lod-hopper origin'
behind the-scenes. Proceed; Mnanbausen."
"As I wer' a sayin'," continued 3arnaby,
-foiled in 'his attempt to irritate Aiadrew, "I,
went on in search of the bosses as the Capting
lied ordered me, but could see neither hide nor.
hair, head 'anor tail, hoof nor mane of"'em,
though I' took some tremenfus eireunbendibuses
hither and yon. Finally, I elim' a tree and
seed a -smoke, for 'which I started immejet.
The smoke turned out to be from a poultry-.
yard, or rether, per'aps I should say, from a
shanty."
The narrator paused an instant to  ake a
readjustment of Abe. He, in fact, played him
between his horse's ears with the fries dly ad.
monition "not to lose his equalabraham'. The
spangled cock, finding himself in this conspie-
uous position, crowed like a camp-meeting
Methodist-in the fervor of a seven octave'halle-
lujah. The woods repeated the sound far and
'near.
" Telk you what, 'Mars'r Sandhiller 1" cried
Old Sue, flaming up of asudden. "That yar
no 'count -cock '11 git us into diffikilty sure
'nough. Ken hear that crittur's voice furder
nor ye ken a steam-biler."   .
"Thenk ye, nigger 1 'Tis a nice voice, and
no mistake. Ther's but one thing I'd rether
hear nor it, and thet's my gel's lerynx a singin':
'When I ken read my titnal clear,' ' Old, Clem
the Weaver', "Rosy Lee', and other squinti-
mental hems. 'As- I said afore, I weit into
the game-house and helped myself to the
fruits of' the season,.which there' wer' a duzzin.
FourI put in my cap, four under my nose, and
four in yer. And here they be," said Barnaby,
thrusting his hahdiinto his jacket-pocket, "all
safe, but broke."

Jl

His fingers{ came out. reeling with eomngin-
gled yolk aid,white.
"All safe !" rp ated tie Sandhiller, with un-
faltering' coolass, "but-hroke."
'There was q general. umile at his.expense.
"ou;kent'use; eggs wIw'ple I" quothiBarna-
by,, philosophy. : Egs'has to be, broke be-
fore they're eat 'N~t only prokef but,beatsipto
a jelly like this yer. Whpr htbeodds. ,Akent
set 'em to be 'sure. Dut 'otherwise I don't
keer. Here, Abe, help yerself to cold yttles."'
'The;Sapahiller, scppped ug apalepful of the
sticky mass, and' proffered itto the p  ed
goek, which dipp ngits beak into itgobb it
up as fast as possible.
'While I wer" lookin' over the property h.
Confederate Army ,eppronebled o,, boss-back ;
not ail of it, but two;men a ridi'and apothaer
game-trainer foot. 'he men on, hossb sk
rode with their feet ,'in the stirrups, 4nd.the
traineron foot walked with his feet in ,his
shoos.  I made ,these pbsyvations .from;the
place wihicl I stood. I p ever; set eyes q' sich
ferocious' heating. ,They, bed  ewprds ,which
huag. to "the gambrels o' their apimilles,..snd
niade- a wicked, stiaslain', as they cherged ,,p
boldly to the, poultry-yard wher' I'wer' ednoeel-
ed. Them, whilah renamed' hehiud and ;diyin't
come in _siglat.was equilly bloodthirsty intheir
looks, as -I noticed at the time. \Y hat do ye
think, Capting? One' o' them chpps wer' no
less nor a Major-General,'and .t'other was the
aid to him.  .Well, they attackled ue topoot;
acid .dragged rze out, which were a 'terrible
sta'uggle thet followed, lasting' upwards o' half an
hour, on the round and off, upright and ioni-
zonpual, sideways and endways, rough and tiun-
ble. All this wer' mixed, at infidels, with dread-
ful awars, which for a yooth who hed 'tended
Sabbath-schools, and, opened 'em hisself, wer' a
hard thing to stan'."
" You were greatly shocked 1" observed An-
drew.
"We fit and'fit," Barnabywent on. " I,dun
no how long we didn't fit. Per'aps I'd better
stop a little while to let ye think of us a rollin'
about and jumpin' at one a-to'ther."
"You take away my breath !" said Felix.
" Do you mentually see us on the ground ?"
queried .Barnaby.
" We do !" replied Andrew, "in all.sorts of
contortions. 'We will suppose that three quar-
tea's of an hour has passed in the most. frightfuiL
evolutions, with clutched throats und brandish-
ed knives."
" When I rose from ,the conflieks," added
Barnaby, with unshaken gravity ; "some of ,my
edversaries was done for ; but I wer' a prison-
er. I thought it wer'asggone case with me, and
made up ,my mind according. It wer' very
cornsolin', however, to know thet  y lastwilt
and' testament- the testament I left to home-
wer' made. While two stout sellers 14el.


74               BARNABY, THE SANDHILLER.

BARNABY, TIE SANDHILLER.

with fixed bagonets"-this was a little obscure
in Barnaby--" five or six others flew round and
got "a rope and tied it to the ridge-pole of a
tree, and led a powerful big hoss under it. Not
this ene," said Barnaby, ingenuously, "but
-one as this is a sucking colt alongside of."
"I'm unworthy to have such an attendant!"
-exclaimed Westerly.
rle-spangled cock having wiped his beak on
the horse's ear, erected his body and neck, and
treated all within the sound of his voice to his
best quality of crow. Abe had never done any-
-thing sharper in that line.
" Ioramity! We're within a mile o' the
Confederate pickets!" cried Sut, in perceptible
'trepidation.
" It happened-I kent 'count for it-thet
none of 'em seed my sword, which hung to my
-side all through the tussle, but we was so near
together thet it couldn't flop about much, and
so in the excitement probably wer'n't noticed
This is the only view I ken take on't. Nobody
likes to die ; leastways I don't. I never could
-see my way clear in thet direction. In this
world a covey ken eat and drink and enjoy his.
self; but I never knowed a man which' wer'
hanged, to have an appetite arterward. Jest as
'everythin' we, ready, I whipped out my cleaver
-of a suddint, and for a few minutes the heads
Tolled about like ninepin balls."
"Who can doubt it?" murmured Felix.
"The proof of the puddin' is in the eatin'
on1" quoth the Sandhiller, quite unmoved by
incredulity. " They pressed me mighty hard
for a short time, but I kept my weepon playin'
on 'ena with sich pcrtiiiastity thet they was
-struck with a panic, which of 'e wasn't killed
or hed't lost a leg or a aria, and took to the
bushes. Findin' myself master of the field, I
d'liberately picked out two o' the best bosses,
eat my supper, give some good advice to the
game-trainer, periled the wounded, confiscated
this spangled cock, aid am here to make oath
to everything' thet happened."
CHAPTER XXV.
THE CROWER CRoWS THEM INTO TROUBLE.
Pets are troublesome comforts, as a general
thing. No schoolboy ever had a  iiseievous
crow, and no young miss a lame robin, which
did not in some way involve their owners in
embarrassments and difficulties. Pets, feaner-
ed or furred, are unreasoning creatures, and
cannot be taught discretion. The spangled
cock was not an exception to this prevailing
peculiarity, and soon invoked danger upon the
heads of its protectors. Seeing a large bird
flying very low, Abe immediately challenged
that bird to instant and mortal combat.. Nor
was Abe content with one shrill note of defiance;
he scraped his leg, shook his wings, and crow-
ed at least seven times. Old Sut was thrown
into a fever of apprehension. .lHe stopped his

horse, and protested against farther demonstra*
tions of this kind, with the most moving African
eloquence. le begged larnaby to cut off Abe's
head without delay, or, at least, to tie a rope-
yarn around it's neck.
"Nigger!" said Barnaby, much shocked at
these vile suggestions, "I'd sooner snip off your
head nor his'n The fact is," he went on, em-
phatically, "you weren't brought from a dis-
tance as this bird wer', but are indigammonus
to the sile. You never wer' put aboard ais ear-
b'iler, nigger, with a sailor-feller to give ye a
dime's worth of corn per dierum, aid fetched
acrost the trackless brine. Black man, you
never seen no brine, 'cept the pickle that they
slash onto you arter a wallopin'. Think how
long this animile stood tied by the leg on the
poop-gunnel o' the vessel, with his hackles wet
with the awash o' the ocean. But you, darkey,
hev hed nothin' but plain sailin' from the era-
dIe till now, without no extry cost for imputa-
tion, clippin', or trainin'; and ther's plenty
more on ye o' the same sort. Go away, orI
swar by bloo clay and by yellow snuff, thet 'll
sarve you as you want to sarve this feathered-
wobbler."
Barnaby drew out six inches of his eleavir,
and let it slide back again with a clash.
Twilight had set in, but it was still light
enough to see quite clearly. The Sandhillee's
last action drew the attention of the negro mere
particularly toward that formidable weap osi
which swung at the side of the youthful Boan-
erges.
Riding close to Barnaby, and depressing his
woolly pate, he saw a small mark on the scab-
bard of the artillery-sword. His manner in-
staitly changed, ard expressed both wonder
ard consternation.b 1  Stared so long at the
sword, that Barnaby noticed the circumstance
and the transition from one mood to another.
"Shake not your gory locks at me I" quoth
Barnaby, falling back uponetragedy, and ending
with  " What's bust ?"
1 Mars'r Barnaby," responded Sut, in a trem-
ulous tone, 1 whar, in the name of de Lor', did
ye git that yar '"
Ie pointed at the weapon with a faltering
finger.
The Sandhiller, suspecting that the black had
some strategy in view perilous to Abe, shielded
that gaudy pugilist with his left arm, and
saidl:
"No gammon, darkey !"
" Mars'r Cruise, tell me whar?"
Thee was something so earnest in this ap-
peal, that Baniaby did not attempt to ignore it,
but remembering the way in which thesword
tid come into his possession, began to mistrust
that there might be some reason for the slave's
agitation. Bending toward Old Sut, lie answer.
ed, in a cautious voice :
I found it wiser' other' was meny sloh I"

"Then all is lost!" groaned the negro, tern-
bly downcast.       "-                    a
"Not so bad as thet," said Barnaby ; Itbut I
reekin you stan' on slippery places, with trap-
doors aneath your feet and hemp atop."S
" Who betrayed vs ?" demanded Old Sut,
with a startling look at Barnaby.  D
"Be kerful t" warned the latter.  "Don't
murder nobody till ye know you're hurt."
He slackened his horse a little, and muttered e
to himself:
" What a free old devil it are!. Ther's 
throat-cuttia' in that nig."d "aedte
"Nobody iesn't betrayed ye," added the i
Sandhiller, raising his voice. "Your horribul
secret is safe enoughh so fur as thet goes. But I
'vise you, as a fnien', to guy it up. With wan's
and fighting's, buruiu's and plundenin's, shoot's
and hangminns, the entry is bad 'nough off
'thout slave instigations."
Abe wound his bugle obstreperously. It is
doubtful if the incognito king of Lincoln-green
memory blew his hunting horn so loudly after
his combat, with Roderic Dhu.
"Blast that bird !" cried Felix, completely
out of patience.*"
" That makes twice," said Andrew, "that you
have objurgated that fowl, and I must inform
you that profanity is particularly vulgar and
Felix mumbled something else that sounded
marvelously like the first profanity prolonged.
" If Miss Anna,"' added Andrew, "should
hear you go on in that frightful manner, she
neve' would forgive you.rn
"Oh, there's no swearing in Sautbern so-4
ciety !" sneered Felix. ",Miss Conway has
more sense tian-than some otherpersons."
" I see how it is with ou," replied Andrew,
with condescension. "You have fallen in love
with my cousin, and I am likely to have a
Yankee kinsman; a thing which I tell you
frankly won't set well on my Southern pride."
" Were you of an age and stature to meet me
on equal terms, I would soon settle that matter
with you, and give you something, perchance,
that would agree still less with your fastidious
notions I" retorted Felix, frowning.
"Let us delay our quarrel for the present,"
laughed Andrew. " I'll throw down the glove
to you soon enough, I'll warrant.".'
Westerly looked at his new traveling com.
rade, and marveled that a young fellow with so
much impertinence should have so much good
humor. That laughing mouth did really look
like Anna's, and he could not help secretly own-
ing it. He prudently forbore to press the alter-
cation further.
" Hair "'exclaimed the youth, stopping his
horse. " I hear the sound of feet."
There followed a sudden halt and a dead si-
lence. The spangled cock improved that silence
with a vigorousness that added to the enormity

f his other offences. Westerly made a snatch'
t its neck, but Barnaby protected his favorite.
Not a suspicious sound could be heard.
Barnaby watched for an opportunity, and
whispered to Felix:
SSpeak a consolatin' word to thet nigger
when ye git a chance, for he's woundedly cut.
up 'bout them yer arms in Chloe's sullar. By'
ome mark or t'other he's rescognized this-
hopper."
"On account of the faithful Chloe, I will put-
's mind at ease."
Felix was going to execute this benevolent in-
tention, when there broke abruptly upon their
ears the clatter of horses' hoofs. .
"Whoever comes," muttered Westerly, " have
guided their movements by the crowings of that
unlucky bird. They stopped to listen when we
did and your confounded Abe has done the-
business for us. 'Unless," he added, ironically,
glancing at Andrew, " this good youth has some
talisman to avert danger.
"Dippers and clippers !" exclaimed Barnaby.
" Don't lean on this fellow, for he's turnin' pale
already ; and if he's no better piluck nor that,.
he'd better scamper away and save hisself."
" Throw away your chicken !" said Felix,.
" and draw your sword. If there are not too,
many of them, we'll fight. Jt is yet li4ht
enough to take tolerable aim, and I will use the
gift of the generous Rebel to the best of my
ability, should there be need. Old Sut, if you~
have weapon of offense or defense, out with it
and help us, and don't fret about your secret"
At the first alarm, the negro rode to the side
of Andrew with much determination of manner,
and now answered :
SI'searmed, Mars'r Felix, and I'll fight for
Mars'r Andrew while thar's a breff o' life in my
brack body."
" For Mars'r Andrew 1" grumbled Barnaby.
" I fights for the Capting, which are worth two-
o' him."
" Don't fight, Sut !" said Andrew, warningly.
"You know it is death to raise your hand
against a white man."
" We mus' all die I" said the negro, impres-
sively, and with a stern and lowering face.
"Death comes to all, Mars-r ; and to a worn-out.
slave what matter how soon I"
Putting his hand into the breast of his coarse
jean jacket, he drew out a small weapon ; it was
a revolver of approved pattern and deadly ae-
euracy. Andrew, following his example, pro-
duced the counterpart of this instrument.
"Face this way 1" ordered Felix. " They are'
galloping down the path. Stand firm-here
yCoronel Allerton " gasped Andrew, reeling
in his saddle.
"Thet p'ison, overseer 1" cried Barnaby. And
immediately some pistol-shots rattled about.
their ears, wounding the trees behind them.


77-

BARNABY,ABTTE SANDHILLE1L

"Defend Felix 11"whisperedAndrew,,hurried
ly, to Old 'Sut., The.latter,. however, was b'
this time defending himself bravely. :Touchinj
his;horse with hisheel;. andi throwing his bod;
forward in his saddle, lie rushed' at' thaseene
mies,'six ini number; disehhrging'his pistolwitl
fatal' airs.. Theperson whom Barnabyimad ree
ognised asAbsa om .Wills:'was- the, first-to:los
his seat and. fall to the'gnound.  His lhorsern
away, frightened and riderless,  Barnahyno
behind this master -in coursg,dashed atethes
assailants with his sword, and 'soondisarme(
and crippledeone of them;- while 'the ;spangled
'cocl, hopping over the Sandhi ler's shoulder
alighted on the crupper behind him, where hi
'crowed and -seaaped his:wing in great apparent
" I'm: doneior I" groaned:Absalom' " Tire
goldarned. Yankee: lies winged:me. For God's
sake, don't trample E on. me !"'
Butthere iwas no 'time t to' listen to remons
trances ; each was thinking of himself and mis.
chieff7.. Old i Sut, keeping a little ihi advanceof
Andrew;,'and trying -continrally'to covert him
with 1his -body, shot, two ,of the : Confederates
with his 'own; hand.: Only two .of the 'enemy
aow remined. to continue. theta 'assault,'and they
foughttwith desperation. Andrew wasiwounded
in the arm, Felix in the-.shoulder, Barnaby in
the side,,: The .black,-alone, wasuninjoredby,
sabre =or bullets - The, contest -was closed by a
shot. from Felix which, striking -Allerton-in the
breast,, deprived.. him of -the- powert'of further
resistance., Pistol andsabre i dropped from'his
hands,,'he clutched at -the reins,. turned his
horse,. andwent. out.'of, the fight with furious
haste, followed with equal pace by the-only one
of the. five who rode. with him to the attack
that was able ito ride outof it.     .
Theft spangled cock flew upon Barnaby's head,
Sapped his wings, and crew triumphantly.
"The day is ours 1" shouted the Sandhiller.'
"'Which are killed:2"     .
"No.' tone" '",answered; Feli -" Unless,". he
added, suddenly, "it may be Andrew"?
Turning his head4. he 'bad .seen that,,youth
sittingunsteadilyin his saddle, with pallidness
upon his face to-warrant thebelief-'that the was
about to fall. He was .goingt'to 'his, support,
whenSBut, who ilhad been eloself watching An- 1
drew, threw his 'arm, arouadshim-and=held him
in his seat.'-
"-Loramity,-Mars'r I" 'exclaimed theft black, his
sooty face-actually pale with terror;"Are you
killed'? " - '
"Not ,quite,' murmured .4ndrew4 leaning on
the negro's shoulder, his respiration nearly sus;:
pended and hislips very.white.
" Give him air !" said Felix. " Takeoff that
Cap +and unbutton his -est. No' wonder he is
Saint;she:is' done ni like -a-mummy.'
Andrews eroased both arms over hasIhestand

c clenched his gatintleted fingers' spasmodically
y upon his sleeves.
g    " Don't pay 'no 'tention dhiI!" said' Sut,
y! hastily: " I knows "his ways, Mfirs'i- Felix, and
- ken manage' him *ell'"ough 'lone. Altus sub-
1' jerkJto these 'yer 'tacks arter a 'citement' or a
Shutt"
e , " No' more spunk nod'a gel't"' asserted Barns-'
n by, in an undertnie'
t   Tho'smalhjest of Andraw'S figure '. the!'fasi .
e' ness of that portion of his face which Aotild be"
d 'seen; fthe softnfess'of his manners' the' peculiar.
position of his armas; thesingu lar. fash Ion in
which lie reposedo'n the shoulder' of Old Sut;
e in brief, his whole 'pose, struck Felix as parties.
t' larly effeminate and 'Unmauly. Yet his feelings
softened toward' the' youth. He' was, in-fact;
t but' a hild, and' in his service ; the latter A
s item 'f0,'whicl'he 'should be grateful.' Pre
ehtly, seeing some drops of blood trickling
from his glove, he muttered':
"Por elad I I hopehe is not' briidusl in=
f jured?.y-
"What a hand !" quoth 'Barnaby. "'Tain'
Bigger' hor a woman's. - Lodk at'ray pav. along.
'side o' which."
The ' Sandliller 'laid a tremendous' hand' on
'the pommel of the addle beside 'Andrew's, and.
'the contrast-was wonderrol to see.
CHATTER" XXVI,
mniriy L.rlemaks."
Old, But, who"was really the 'most practiaIl
of the-party; 'after' considerable nervous fuin-
bling, drew a small flask from his- pocket, and.
proceeded with more: haste than judgment to
uncork. it, and apply the nozsle to Andrew's
mouth.   Tipping up this' little vessel, some
kind of a burning, fluid 'passed''into the youth's
throat, when'the'pains of strangulation did more
to 'restore him" than anything,'' perhaps , that
could have been done. With some shudder and'
'spgsm, lie opened-his' eves grew red in the
face,'and smile'd:-a pale'sinile,' but it 'was, nev-
'ertheless, }a smile,'and"indieative of conscious-
ness. ' After a gasping 'breath or'two, he'tried
'to laugh at his own weakness, and 'said, Apolo-
getically:
' It 'is constitutional.  I take' it froin my
mother.- The prick'of a bodkin, I do believe,
would make me faint."'
"You' are wounded,"' Felix remarked.
"Am I? ' I scarcely knew it !" replied An-
drew, 'looking, at 'the' mall' red spots on his
glove.'
He moved 'his ari to and'fro, adding:
" It is not serious, certainly.'.'
"Here's whar the bullet passed through the
sleeve,?' said Sut. t "It touched the flesh, Massa
"Andrew. Mighty dose business, uoho'v
"Talil off}youl. 'ooat "said Felix, "and 'I'll
bandsgeth-woedin amoezAt''I'have sonme
' 3skill'ia sargerya/'

" We wou't stot for surgery," anuswered An-n
drew, qniickiy. "Please attend to your, own
injuries, and forget mine."
'J ben t&amp; the black k:c1"
Te T'rlthis hnderchiefa-ound-  arm, Sut,
and I shall ,do vehy we k "Tied it  ettigte
and it willito i'the bleeding. BI gies,,
Thae 1youehi otikibn his bandketOhief from
his 'pocket, droppedit,"and W ditifl eaught'it
as it     d waspfalling.He observed that it was of a
a icgras fln en ddelicate fabric,1nero adt-
ed to the use fair lady tha  to that of .
ikeAndrew. 'e eaught'giampse of some in.
itials on the corner- ,of this' flimsy, concern,
among which he was sure he sai the letter O.,
Andi wm was confused, and said, with some em-
barra smeitt
"bWlit have wehere ? One of Cousin Anna's
shetyh ad     biefs' I do believe. I'dare say,
vse' ked 'it''into' my pocket while she ,'was
hurry  g me off; for the girl did' really push
me outg dmes ih'her teal for your safe qon-
duct. "
"dIt will not do at all," interposed Felix.
"And it were a pityto'staia sich a petty trifle.
Here it one"- he producedrather ~ hard-looking
rag   that will ansWer the urpose eieellently
wellt and br~u'll find' it strong and reliable,'
too."
"No, I thank you !"   esponded, Andrew,
-aughing.  " Cousin Anna may be', somewhat
bold agnd hoydenish withal, but I'm notasuch a
scapegrace as not tQ liavm 'me pride in 'wearing
an artic slesciall devoted to her well-cnoug.
face.    p
Stretching out his arm to Old Sut, he folded
and boundudh-white linen'upon it very neatly
an operation which the ,outl went through
withauch'coolness that Felix bit his lips vit b
vexation:.''.
" Thutsame napkin," quoth Andrew, "which.
you have obligingly offered me, may with pro-,
priety be 'applied to your own use ; for I per.
ceive that you are wounded."'
"There is bore need f proceeding, I think,"
replied Velixwith moodiness.  "The'suu has
gone down,'anl thebeafens'are growing dark."
"The clouds are musterin'l',' remarked.a'
naby, casting his eyes skyward.  "Ther'l be
rain afore soonif sig njsdpa't fil. The hackles
o' thecoek hang down'linip, like wet rags, which
are a sure sign o' wet weather."
" Ris hackle featiga will-droop if I get hold
of him," threatened Felix " rain or shine."
"But touch him unkihly with so much as
the tip- o' ver finer, and -you and I are twol"

as tau say : ' At 'cm, chaps! 0I.Give 'em the steels!
Cut 'em dow   You're gqod for'em,i"
"-Come on, Massa,Saudhiller,aud don'tbe-
,ha '-'a*dmoid, Old Sat,, : leadixlg off.
"   ee got sone way ,A gQyet, and you'd
better nuge your bird toSatop, iadog-gonsed
ono a,y'                              b
S   ygrg  sai4$ fain lie,iBarpabyba
moved on afterapi friend, "Stopa miutegt
you hlue-tay san..
" iilf~g'  said Barmby, ,"take yer owna
time, as .teh ngga4 sai4 ,tothe thief; thet'u'
tirt neepad4et. Don'Alean notli'oneyk't.
uGetle .dirt-eawer~",conttigd _thexy voiet,'"
which, of a truth, pertained to, Absalqn'Willsr
"lend me a helpip 'hsbd,-for.I'm shotthrough'
the lungs."
"'Iether unfortunit' 1" returned the 8andhils!
ler, leisurely taking 9ut his word?
" What ye gwine to do with;thet?' queriq&amp; a
Absalo~u iwho had raise4c1himselito .a eittiga
posture.
"No hip',conseqigntially '"  obsene d  ara
.by. "I'se onlyagein'fo see.;what oaly gam.,
you mouglit give me next"
" I'm afeared," resnied the overseer, shah1.
ing his hesd dpbiously,,"thetttheairthMW'ith
all its .otton and piggers, andliieclaysxeenda
whisky,  is passin' away."
"Thets your business !" ,said; lareabyt
" It's dreadful to Joseall ,onejdies, toon!"
added &amp;Asalom,in,a     ndiolyrone;
" Them. whtilyou..,meipaed, .erti,'gly, t
.are l hard to be torted from , -You, night 1,
throwe~d tobaes 'iptoe,the .lot, with; sprinkl in',
o, snuf. Other' .is many, pleasures, thet of
sneezia'.are of vFigh.'l"-
"Kentyerdo pomethia' for me, $aadlhiler
Qive ~e a drink froniyour tlask and pregue my.
Wound. i1think.X could hold onto ,temporary,
things a little longer, if I could have p$ention.".
"I haigg 'nery.flask, niger.whipper, andas
for progu'in', I should do, it with a instrument.
thet you wouldn'tev any pleasure An which."
He dropped the artillery-sword heavily into.
,its scabbard.
" Remprber thet j guided, ye 1" persiste&amp;d
Absalom.
" Better not mention thet I" returned Bareaa.
by, quickly, in a tonedess-friepdiy. ." You bey
trayed us shameful,a by reason.of which we was
cut and hacled shekia', and..w.llrnigh. extry.
animated. The Capting hed;a bard'time,.and
the chaneas,, pf ryeovery., hung, to a hair, or,
ether to a ledy, whichwerea-angel, so fur as
they make 'em in tr'opical latitoods."
" A lady I" exclaignod Absalom .with more
tjmatipn. " Tell me thet lAdy's name,"
Copiyay," answered,Barpby-" if it'll do
yp ny good, which are doubtful."
"'Jestas Ithought" muttered the overseen?
{ «Twa soto be, apdslaopoove gould prevent"

BARNABY, T flE SANDSILLER.

76 :.4


BAR .Al3Y, THELSANDTItLLER             '7$

78

BARNABY, TIlE SANDIiILLER.

it. Tiher's a few which I'd like to 'lev' my will , touch it under any other conditions. I ain't na
of afore I die ; and that worldly-wise old Bar- robber, I ain't."
rowscale is one of 'em. ,I come and I went at  "I hev. a young darter down to Blue Clay
his tellin', and didn't speak for myself, hopiti' Creek, which I'd.like to hed it, but no matter!"
thet the changes and chances o' this war would added Wills,'with a more subdued manner.
throw her into my power; and then who could   " Name thet gel's name!'":replied Barnaby,
a stood in my way. But itseemed thet/ I've softening 'toward the 'overseer, "and she shall,
stooped, anddplotted, and eat dirt for naught." hey that same scrip and greenbacks, or a cert
He paused and groaned.' Pain and disap- ing nice old snuff-dipper shall hey a son the
ointment were taking vengeance upon.him for less."
his misdeeds. A life misspent is a bad thing.  " Her name," said Absalom, .dropping his
"You hed ambition, as well as a ugly mug I" voice to a low cadence, "is Matilda White."
said Barnaby, who had but little reverence for  Barnaby's chin fell, and he stared at the over-.
visible or invisible things.      - .       seer'with open mouth.
"Kent ye think o' something' your mother     "No ," he murmured, "NoI".
tort you ?" he added.                         " It's true," responded Absalom, with an
"I'm thinkin' o' myself, and not o' my moth- 'earnestness that left no doubt 'of his sincerity.
er!" responded the overseer, morosely. "One  The Sandhiller turned.as many colors as he
is more to himself than to anybody or anything could command at short notice.
else. Thet power which ken help me keep my    " What's come over you ?" asked Wills, struck
own power, is all thet interests me at present. by the change in his expression. -
Selfish desires are the gods o' men ; and they're  "Nothin' of no importunks," stammered Bar-
mine no less. Dismount,' good Barnaby, and naby ; " only 'Tildy White o' Blue Clay Creek
plug this wound with a pellet o' cloth, and per- are my gel."
haps it'll 'stop the bleedin', and save my life.  ' "Is it so ?" said the overseer, after a brief si-
For this sarvice you shall pay yourself on the lence. "I knew it not, and indeed know little
spot."  ' '                                 of her. Perhaps I could have wished it differ-
"I'm in a hurry," replied Barnaby, " but I'll ent ; but this is no time to talk on't. If I live,
he skinned.if I'll be so p'ison mean as to refuse I'l do somethin' for her."
to small a favor."                            "Let me put ye into the bushes out o' sight,"
The Sandhiller sprang from his saddle,. and replied Barnahy, his self-possession pretty much
knelt beside his fallen enemy. Tearing open restored, "and I'll send somebody back for you
hiY vest and shirt, he soon discovered the as soon as I find any one to come. You shan't
'wound-a little round spot, with a bloody ooze die like a dog, it I ken help it. For the sake of
.spon it. It was over the left breast.      'Tildy White, I won't neglect ye ; though it's
"I doubt whether you are done for," ob- my convictions thet' she are not much in your
ser ved Barnaby, feeling roughly along Absa- debt for food, elothin', or eddication, nor any-
lon's ribs. "llowsever, I'll stop the leak, and thin' 'cept her bare being . If you could chose
you'll find out, sooner or later, how it'll end."  a better son-in-law, I could chose a better fath-
Barnaby made a pellet of a bit of the wound- er-in-law; so I reekin we're about square on
ed man's shirt, and carefully plugged the small, thet; and if ther's any balance, it's in my fa-
yet apparently fatal drain.                 vor.".                               .
" Thank you," said Absalom. " In the right  While he was making this response, he drew
pocket of my vest there' is some Confederate Absalom out of the path and placed him com-
scrip ; in the left there are greenbacks. Choose forably at the foot of a tree, where thick foli.'
which you will."                            age covered him.
"Not a greenback nor a scrip !" answered    "I'll remember my promise.     Good-bye,
Barnaby, with 'firmness. "If I kent do so overseer."
much as thet 'thout pay for 't, I'll take lessons  " Good-bye, Barnaby."
o' the first heating I meet."                The latter mounted his horse, and rode rap-.
" Stay !" cried Absalom, as the Sandhiller idly after Felix, not greatly elated by his die-
was turning from him. "Take this money and covery.
keep it for me, or I shall be robbed by the first
bushwhacker that comes along. And to hide               CHAPTElR XXVIIL
the robbery, he won't mind knoekin' me on the        .       H LTR.
head arterwards ; for dead men tell no tales, as  Barnaby Cruise  galloped some distance,
all the world knows. You seem so honest thet when, with considerable consternation, he recol-
I nether trust ye thad keep it on my person. If lected that, previous to moving Absalom Wills,
I go under-which is probable-it is yours; if I into the bushes, he had placed the spangled
Jive, you' ken return it, if you like, 'should we cock on the ground near the horse, and in the-
ever meet.", hurry of starting, forgotten his favorite.                             He
" If thet's your pleasure," said Barnaby, rode back helter-skelter, actuated by a single
" I'm  your man; but I'll be skinned if I'll thought, which had reference to the safety of

his bir], Slipping from the saddle, he began
to look for Abe. - While thus employed, lie
heard the mutterings of thunder, and perceived
that dark masses of clouds were drifting rapidly
Grosbthe heaven. Not daring to linger long-
er, he put his foot in the stirrup to mount,
when be discovered the spangled cook sitting
quietly upon the crupper, where it had been all
the while, having ridden away and back again,
unobserved by its new owner. The latter made
same expressions of astonishment not compli-
meptary to his own sharpness, and took a see-
god start in pursuit of his friends.
It grew darkrapidly,,and it was with dificul-
tv that he could keep the .path. The lightning,
whici appeared at first low down upon the hori-
zon, now dashed. across the' zenith with start-
ling effect. Barnaby was somewhat awed ; but
Abe, not 'having the fear of the elements before
his eyes, crowed the most fiercely when it thun-
dered the loudest. The Sandhiller patted him
on the head in token of approbation. After
clattering ca a long time, he became apprehen-
sive that he bad lost the way ; but, by-and-by,
was relieved of his anxiety by hearing Wester-
ly call out:
4 Is that you, Barnaby ?"
To which he gave the proper response ; when
Felix reproached him for his absence, which
had caused them much uneasiness, not knowing
but some accident had happened to him,
Barnaby answered to the effect, that he had
been detained by the wounded overseer, by
whom revelations of the most astounding char-
acter had been made, which could not be wrung
from him by any amount of pressure that could
be applied, morally or physically.
" One queer thing I don't min' tellin' you,"
he was good enough to add. "II lost Abe, and
went back for him, wien he wer' all the while
sittin' ahind me on the crupper. Durned if it
wasn't a joke I".      .
Old Sit was mightily pleased,,and chuckled
at this absurdity ; and though it provoked a
smile from Westerly, he was too anxious for
shelter and food to give it much attention. An-
drew was the subject of similar feelings, and
when the lightning revealed his features,/they
were very pale, and wore a troubled expression.
He said :'
"You have detained us, Barnaby. Go on,
Sut. You know where to go, and be sure and
'take the shortest way."
The voice was slightly tremulous, and made
Felix.think of Anna.
The parties had halted to wait for lBarnaby,
but they now moved forward with alacrity, each
secretly quailing at the impending -storm.
Large drops of rain began tofall; -they pattered
on the leaves like bullets. The horses, which
shrank and trembled at the lightning, increased
their;speed of their/ -own volition. 'The dumb'
aseauressented -to know the way, and though'

the night had slhut in as l),ck as ink, -ept the
bridle-path  vitih wonderful instinct. No one
felt disposed to convers uion. The watery drops
came faster and faster, till they beat upon the
riders in torrents.
Andrew rode close to Felix, while Burnaby
cantered behind.  In the course of half an
hour, their almost invisible guide halted, and
Westerly could see something looming before
them that be took to be a dwelling. The sight
gladdened him, for fasting and exercise ha*d
tasked him -severely. His recent wounds ap.
peared to be opening again, and ie experience
pains in his flesh, and dull aches in his bones.
He was drenching wet.
" Here we are, Mars'r Andrew !" cried Sut,
cheerily, 4 Get off, Mars'r Westerly, and wall
right in. I know whar we be now.     Some
Unioners psed -to live here, which was drove of
by the 'Federates, leavim' only a few servants
and some women-folks."
The black assisted Andrew to dismount, or
more properly, literally listed him from  the
horse, and set him upon the threshold. Wes-
terly, ever suspicious, thought Old Sut whis-
pered to him during this action. The negro
having previously opened the door, they entered
a dark hall, while the former fumbled about
and rang a bell. By-and-by, a colored boy ap-
peared with a light, who conducted them to an
ante-room.
"Make yourself perfectly at home, Mr. Wes-
terly, for the owner of this establishment is a
near relative. I will go and look up my ang
wheni you shall have proper attention,' sai
Andrew, making a motion to Sut, who followed
him from the apartment.
Felix sank wearily to a seat, and abandoning
hims4lf to the luxury of rest, was almost asleep
when a mulatto woman came to show him to a
more comfortable quarters. He was ld to a
chamber, which, tired as he was, surprised him
by the elegance of its appointments. Although
it was notcold, a fire, just kindled, was blazing
in a grate. A negro man stood waiting ohs
quiously with dressing-gown and slippers,
while another presented on a tray a steaming
brandy-punch, which he seized and drank with
an avidity that made his sable waiters wigk.
Yery soon suitable food was placed before him,
of which he prudently ate sparingly, and retired
to bed with a willingness Induced by extraordi-
pary fatigue. His dreams were mostly of Di-
ana, Anna, and Andrew, who,svangely enough,
took the lion's share of his nocturnal fancies.
CHAPTER XXVIHI.
OUT OP REACH.
Felix Westerly awoke at a late hour is the
morning.. The.sun was peeping softly through
the curtains into his room. As soon as bie le-
gan to stir, Ola But and one of his attendants of
the previous night appeared, and- assisted him

I


BARNIABY, THE SANDIUTLER.
to make a respectable toilet. He was much sometimes, when the heart is breakin' with
surprised at the respectful attention which was grief, or the blood boiling' with rage."
given him, and requested Sut to express his  Old Sut spoke with deep seriousness, and
profound sense of obligation to the mistress of shook his head with a melancholy air.
the house. He did not forget to inquire for  "Don't think ill of Chloe," resumed Felix,
Barnaby, whom he was assured was equally remembering the debt of' gratitude that he owed
well provided for. He breakfasted alone ; and her. " I feel that she saved our lives, and it it
after walking his chamber awhile, like one in a my duty to speak in her behalf."
dream, wished to see Andrew and Barnaby.     "Mars'r Westerly," answered Old Sut, with
The former, he was informed, had not yet aris- genuine earnestness, "thar's no need to say a
en, and wassomewhat feverish from the effects word for Chloe. She's one o' the inspired wom-
of his late exposure ; but the latter would soon en, Sar. I believe the good Lor' will hear her
join him.                                  pra'rs, as quick as if Eller skin was white as
Felix felt obliged to seem content with these snow. Thick lips, Sar, and a -flat nose, ain't o'
answers ; took up a book and tried to read ; much 'count, I reckin, up yon. Nothin' gits
cast it from him, utterly unable to fix his above the wicked airth but pure desire and pure
thoughts on the pages ; became reflective, and thought ; and the great God, Sar, don't see
finally grew nervous with waiting and solitude. nothin' but the heart."
He was relieved from this suspense, by-and -by,  The fervor of Old Sut, in conjunction with
by the useful and ubiquitous Sut, who said:  bis white locks and venerable aspect, touched
".Come, Mars'r Felix ; lady, wishes to see the better feelings of Westerly. He was moved,
you, Sar."                                 and said :
" I am glad of it !" he-murmured. "Loneli-  " I pray for your people."
ness annoys me. My nerves are not so strong  "I thank you, Sar. But we're not furriners ;
as they used to be."          .we're Amerienn born; we're black Americans.
"Wounds and wet, Sar, is bad for the sys- We have no ken ry but this. In the land whar
tam," remarked Sut.                        we was born we' I die and be buried, and our
"What lady is it, my friend ?" asked Felix, rights and our rongs shall( be settled some-
with natural curiosity.                    whar else."
" The lady of the hose, Mars'r," said the ne-  The negro pointed upward.
gro.                                         "They're great book-keepers up yon, Mar'sav
"Do not hurry," returned Felix ; "I have I allow they counts the lashes, and they mean-
something to say to you. What knowledge ures the tears, and hears the groans. Well, Sam,
lave you of those secreted arms?"          that is my view. I axes your pardon for speak-
The effect of these words was electrical upon in' so bold and free."   'n
the slave. His apathy of manner changed on   " Heaven forbid that you should humble
the instant.                     -        yourself to me ! I, like you, am dust and ashes.
"For God's sake ! Mars'r Westerly, be kerful freighted with the cares of mortality, and bound
low ye speak !" he answered,,bastily. "Them to the port of death. I should not wonder, old
guns and things isn't for robbery and murder. man, if my soul should need more bleaching
They mean but one thing, Sar, and that is, Lib- than yours."
erty / We's gwine to jine the Federals."     " Massa Westerly," responded Sut, " your
"IYou professed, on a former occasion, t6 be words subdue me more than the whip ever had
a Rebel in feeling," said Felix, looking-search- power to do in all the long years o' my bond-
inglyat Sut.                              age."
"Yes, Sar, I'm a .Rebble ; I knows I'm a Reb-  le became ,silent, keeping his eyes fixed
ble..- when I'm 'mong Rebbles. 'Spect~that's. upon the floor. Westerly, who perceived that
the kind o' Rebble I be."                  the interview had lasted long enough, asked,
The negro indulged in a quiet chuckle. They cautiously:
had stopped in a wide hall, where no person - "When will this flight take place ?"
eeuld approach them without being seen.      "Soon, Sar, soon ! But it's agin our compack
" Barnaby has told you the particulars of the to tell to any creature which doesn't go with us.
discovery, I suppose ?" Felix inquired.    'Sense me, Sar."
"Yes, Mars'r, and I feels a heap better 'bout  He stood with his old cap under his arm, and
it. But it do make my heart jump into my he bowed his white head submissively when he
t'roat to hear it spoke of. Chloe were impru- had said this.
dent, and run a right smart chance o' doin'  "Enough !" answered Felix, in a friendly
mischief. But she know'd you was Yankees, tone. " Lead me to the lady."
and our people, Sar, has great faith in them  "May-God make you happy!" muttered Old
yer. No man has so black a skin- as not to Sut, with warmth.
'know who his friends is. We understand's what  He walked the length of the ball, opened a
we're 'bout, Mars'r Felix, better'n we git the door, and, step;&amp;ing back, bowed Felix into a
ame- of. We has to deceive and play simple, large room where there was a lady standing at

a
.1


BARNABY. THE SANDHILLER.             83

ra bookcase, with her back toward him. Ad-
vancing a few paces, he stopped and heard the'
door lose behind him.
Waahis'entaiadce unnoticed by the lady ? He
did not know, nor did he perple± himself in
regard to it. His eyes' were fixed' upon one
object, and that was the lady. Her figure was
ehapelyi and ita outlines looked familiar. While
he was thus employed, she continued to btisy
herself with' the books, and he Was finally
obliged to cough to attract her attention. h8t
dropped t- volume, and tubded toward  hiin'with'
a little start, of surprise. She showed hiin the'
kaee of Anna-a face with single and blAh and
mischief in it. Westerly thrilled to the toots
of his' hair, and was conscious-of being red and
.awkward- He was, as it were, outflanked and
taken at a disadvantage. He had' do tore ex-
peetatioi of seeing Miks COnWag than of meat--
ing his unknown wife. He truly did not akW
*hat to say, but by and' by atraumered :
"Really, Miss=Coaway--I assnre you--well-
eertainlya"
" Half of that Will do, Mr. Westerly !" laugh -
ed Anna. "I hope the piesehcen of yont liurse
i tot I particulaly embarrassing ot disagree-
able ?"-
"Disagreeable !" repeated' Felir. " Do' not
.speak the word. But you must al1* idies'otne
naavgiu fbt surpriSe. HO  did- you get here?
Answer tae that, or I'shall think youk are an en-
OhanitreSs."
"Frained down 1" answered Anna, advancing
A4d'giving him her hand in a thst ehhtr-ring
manner  Holding her faith habd ih-his; he to-
snentarily forgot pis unhappiness; or, in other
wsirdst his wife He led bet to a seat, and
placing another Chair hear her for himself, he
seslted to dalte this mystery.
* Your vague rejoinder does not' satisfy me,"
he saia
"The whole matter is simple enough," she
replied. " You shddld recolleCt that you had
many delays on-the way, arid' it-does' not follow
-that IIshould'-take the same route tor meet with
the same obstales  Db' not play the Catechist,
Sir, but- tell me your own advenates."
"Since pal ting with you, my dear young
lady, my exploits' havenot  been few. Figura-
tively speaking, I' have fought with beasts at
Ephesus, and thrice have I bee , letdown by a
basket from the wallb I have- passed through
dangei- thick' and thin ; and if the country does
riot ring with-my deeds, it'will be because they
are unknown!"
" You, are beginnitrg td' catch the trick of
Barnaby !" responded Anna.    "I must cull
biau to relate the incidents of your flight."
" I beg you'to defer your purpose, Miss Con-
way ; for two volumes, the size of the ' Pilgrim's
Progsa55', Would not sufflee for his tale. His
personal adventures have not been limited; and

'
'-,A

asioug then will figure conspicuously, one ar-
tillery-sword, and one spangled cock."
Miss Anna pat her handkerchief to her lips.
" What have you to say of lily Cousin A n.
drew ?" she, asked, becoming demure of a sud.
den.
Felix hesitated, not caring to express lii
views of that-youth very freely.
" Do-not tuinee'nmxtters, Mr. Westerly I" she
added  11IfVou do  .t like him' do not feat
that the anuuicerient will'disturi me.'I't
adare of his peeuliaities.'1
" Being a relative of yours, and acting under
you'r orders for imy personal safety, it would
evince bad'taste in the to speak ill of hia; asi
yet I eathiot say that he was altogether to' my
mind. At times he was slightly flippant; a
refetred in a disrespectful inanne to one Whose
nhue tust ever be held'id the highest te'era
tioti by-me."
Felix dropped' his eyes tillthey tested on the
tip of a dainty -slipper. He made a slight ih.
elluation of iS body toWard Anna.
"He is seamewhat of a eo±oorulb, and' h
slight reverence for Cousin Anna. I hope hi
said nothing calculated to injure ine in youth e-
timation ?" she remarked, naively.
" Unburden your midd of that possibility ;
for you had an advocate within that pleaded'fo?
you aete powerfully than Words, aid hig iilper-
tieneces passed over as harmlessly as bidS.
Yet I ought to beg your padon fat saying 'r
much."
He attempted to take her hard; she *ith-
d'ew it ad said, rather coldly :
" I feza' you must have soniewbat misappre-
hended AndtWe; fol.' 1 believe him tth last pe'
sunr in the world who would Wish to do me a 'teal
injury."
" Do'not thus flatter yourself, Miss ConwayI;
he returned ; " for I assure you, had he not
6een both youth relative and agent, I should
have chastised him on the spot. Anna,;' he add-
ed, with a sudden change Of tone, "youk have
assumed a place so inportabt iik my thoughts,
that I cannot heat you spokenl of lightl, With-
out pain. permit me once more to repeat that
unfortunate declaration with which I shocked'
youti' eartsno longer ago than yesterday."
" If you are going to -be serious, I will Cali
A'ndi-es," answered Anna, playfully.
"Speak' not that trufier's name I' eclairhed
Felix, with emotion. "To you and to me he is
naught. That Which I desire to urge upon your
attention is of vastly more doiisequeneb to me
than anything in the world. It Was once niy'
boast that I never felt the gentle thrall of wbin.
an; but I can no longer' claim that immunity.
Miss Conway, yott have nany slIves; behold
the most loving of them at your feet."
Re slipped down adroitly to the tips of the
slippers, he captured helir hand-the first cap-
ture he had made in the euietny'a o~hhtty-


BARNABY, TUE SANDidILLER.

84                         BARNA3Y, THE SAND MILLER.
kissed it, and turned upon her a most pleading I with the touching lachrymnal flow. It 'was im-
look, before she could put herself on the de- maculate.1
fensive.        .     .                      "Mr. Westerly," she replied, with that dig-
She rallied immediately, and with some car- .nity which he had before'seen her assume, and.
mine flushes apd some lighting up of the eyes, which lie was afraid of, "you bring charges
withdrew the confiscated member, saying:   against me which reflect on my sincerity, and,
"Fie, Mr. Westerly !" you came to subdue us which it might not be easy for you to substan.
With the sword, and not in this fashion. Your tiato."
gallantry, Sir,, surpasses your prudence. I ."Anna, for Heaven's sake, will you give me
have'heard that in storming forts, men do not a chance to say that I love you, without mak-
throw themselves into the trenches till they have ing, me ridiculous by one art and. another?"'
silenced the enemy's batteries ; but here you cried Felix, no longer able to restrain himself.
are at my feet before I've given any indications  "You might have said it long ago !". sighed'
of beirg carried by escalade. Resume your Anna, toying with her watch-chain.
chair, Sir, and think me not unkind."        " And if I had said it, what would have been.
She bent toward him while speaking, and he youranswer?"
might ijave kissed her forehead had he been at  Felix flattered'himself that he was now look-
all impudent ; but he was a very bashful fellow ing the difficulty squarely in the face. He
-with Anna. He was thoroughly perplexed. could see no roundabout path of escape.
In the heat and agitation of a moment so fraught  " How can a woman tell what she might,
with consequences, it was impossible for him to have said ten minutes ago, or what she will
study the meaning of .the soft-voiced siren. in say in ten minutes to come ?" she. retorted,,
the i'apid changes of her expression.      with composure, yet looking at him askance.
"Hear me for the last time !" cried Felix,  "It is useless to protract this scene," said.
passionately.                              Felix, coldly. "It is an idle chase after
"Nay, Sir, I hope to hear you again," mur. shadow."
inured.Anna..                            .   "Am  I a shadow ?" demanded Anna, with:
"tMiss Conway !" exclaimed~ Felix, springing returning vivacity.
to his feet, "am I to believe that I am the sport "A fair but dangerous illusion !" he rejoined,
of your whims, and that you witness my tor- with bitterness. "I understand the meaning
tures with indifference?"                 of your conduct. I confess that I entertain-
"Don't come at me in that way!" answered different notions of your goodness. This un-
Anna, pouting. "You Northmen are dreadful. lucky suit of mine ends here ; but the feeling.
ly savage in your wooings. Why cannotyou which prompted it will remain while life shall.
sit down like aI lamb, and not fly into a rage ?" last."
Anna's handkerchief went prettily to her ."Be not so serious with me,, Felix," she an--
eyes. Felix was as much disarmed as possible, swered, softly. "Wound you I. would not;.
and never knew less how to win Anna than at trifle with you I might. Pardon the foibles of
that moment. There she was,. crying at his woman. Her smiles, her voice, her frowns,
rudeness, with a gossamer rag held charmingly and her tears, are all that she has. With these
over her brows, revealing that same arm which she assails and defends, rebukes and encourages
bad - troubled him  before. Lovely distress! Envy her not the possession of these ; for their
What could he. do with it? At what point power soon fails : and when as a wife she turns.
should hemake the next advance ? He felt that them upon her lord, she presently learns that,
he was a novice in love-making. He approach- they have ceased to prevail. I perceive that.
ed with penitent face, when she motioned him  you are not deeply versed in the sex, which is.
back with her disengaged hand, which hemade really no disparagement to your heart.. I am
bold to take.                              talking too much, I know; but nurses are pro-
" Miss Conway," he faltered, " you alarm me. verbially garrulous, and the occasion warrants
fow can you think that I have been in a rage ?" these observations. You are a stranger. Mr.
"By your violence, Sir !" said Anna, petu  Westerly"-she averted her head without affee-
lantly. "You came near taking away my tation this time-.-" yet I own to being pleased,
breath when you sprang up. Come now, sit with you. .I make. this confession because I
down and go on, and don't be frightful." -  have vexed you."
She disengaged her hand very gently;, lie  " I begin to breathe again !" murmured Felix.
could have kept it without much effort.      " You never stopped breathing !" retorted'
Westerly sat down in a dubious state of mind, Anna.  "Although I've seen you when I
saying:                                    thought there was a fair prospect of such a
"Miss Conway, I'm quite at a loss. I dare catastrophe.",
not do you the injustice to supposethat you are  Westerly threw himself at her feet again and
using me simply for your amusement."       kissed her hands.
The handkerchief left her eyes; and it was not,  .."Don't !" said Anna. "You run at con-
so far as Felix could discover, much saturated delusions. I am going to reject you."

Felix flew up like an India-rubber ball.
" You tare the No ti Star, you know, while I
represent the South ern Cross. It will not do.,
I fear that we must always sustain the same re.
nation to each other that we now do. I must
conquer this weakness."  ..
"Then  you  acknowledge-"   interrupted
Felix, impetuously.
"I do!I" sighed Anna, interruptng Felix in
her turn.
At that, interesting crisis, the crowing of a
cock made them both start with surprise; and
looking.toward the door with flushed'faces, they
saw Barnaby Cruise, with the spangled cock
perched upon his finger.
Annoyance, embarrassment, and vexation,
rushed upon' Felix at once. Anna, more self-
p ossessed, concealed her confusion by keeping
er face from the intruder. That she felt an
inclination to laugh, was certain. Felix, be-
lieving himself so near the, goal, determined
not to be pushed from it by all the Sandhillers
in the world. Seizing her hand, as he stood
partially behind her, looking over her shoulder:
" Anna, say ' Yes' I"
" I cannot !" she gasped. " I am married I"
Felix let fall her hand, but did not stir.
Wonderstruck and doubting, he waited to hear
her speak again. Possibly this was play ful
mockery, and her next words would give him
joy. She did speak. She added, with flutter-
ing breath, and in a voice strangely soft for so
harsh an utterance :
"One cannot be married twice. My husband
lives."
In some way she, slipped away from him ;
she flitted from his sight like a phantom, and
was gone, leaving him pale and faint, with ob
jects reeling and swimming around hint.
CIIAPTER XXIX.
MAncU. ',
"heartless ! cruel l" exclaimed Felix.
" You look like death on a pale hoss !" said
Barnaby.   "Cheer up t  Die game ! Don't
show the white feather. You may win yet."
" Too late, Barnaby," answered Felix, ab-
stractedly.
"Don't say thet. I've seen a bird whop up
artery he'd been cut down, and whip his edver-
sary."
" The battle." skid Felix, trying to look brave,
" is already won by another."
"Do you r'al'y mean it?" asked Barnaby,
tossing Abe out of the window. " Thet takes
away my breath ; be hanged if it don't ! Didn't
think sech wickedness wer' in her. If thet gel
hesn't laid herself out to please ye, then I never
see a gel lay herself out."
The Sandhiller drew his artillery-sword, and
drove the point into the floor with an energetic
blow.
"Tell me where' the man is," he went on,

scowling moodily, "and I'll serve him like
thet."
The sword quivered in the wood, emitting a
vibratory sound.
Burnaby smote the pommel of it with the
palm of his hand, and repeated:
"Like thet!"
The spangled cock, catching his inspiration,
flew back, perched on the crosslet of the hilt,
and crowed.
" Jes' so !" quoth Barnabv. " Jes' so ! Thet's
the spirit to ake this yer'kind o' thing with!
Fight 'em, Abe-fight 'emm   Go in on your
own heels or t'otherwise, with gaffs or without,'
a-foot or a-horseback, rough and tumble. Who's
afeard ? If ye git a bad throw in the pit, up
and at 'em."
There was a high moral bearing in this, in-
tended entirely for Westerly's benefit.  The
latter paced to and fro in a distracted manner
The Sandhiller regarded him with the liveliest
sympathy.
" Not bagged, Capting ?"
He asked this question with as much pathos
as he could throw into his voice.
"Married, Barnaby, married I" exlaimed Fe-
lix, covering his face with his hands.
' A chile four year old could kill me with the
butt end of a hackle-feather !" persisted Barna-
by, holding up both hands, and letting them
fall heavily. " Clip my comb, if I ever learn
the eqsiil o' this. I shall lose my mentual
equal-alraham. If this is so,durned if ever I'll
merry Tildy White! Here's the greenbacks,
though"--lie touched his pocket -"and the
scrip according . But who keers ? If we ken't
hev Miss Annie, we don't want nothia'."
He struck the sword again, and came netr
hitting Abe on the head, who had much difficul-
ty in keeping his narrow perch.
" Not in the least !" he added, with emphasis.
" Not by no means whatsomenever. A gel that
would do thet are worse nor a interval."
" Wish I'd been shot !" muttered Felix.
" Been better for you," said Barnaby.
Then, after a momentary thought, amended
therernark with :
" You'd a made money by bein' shot."
There was a pause, which the Sandhiller was
first to break.
Ile walked up to Felix, tapped him on the
shoulder, and said, meaningly :
" You've lost sight o' one thing, my frien'!
Didn't you rather lose sight o' the feet thet yot
was more or less ferried yourself?"
Westerly felt his hair bristling, and mumbled,
irreverently, something that sounded like :
" The deuce ! I swear to you, Barnaby, that
I forget that infernal marriage every time I see
that woman. She has put everything out of
my head ; reason, honor, and manhood."
".If she'd purred 'yes', with thet nutmeg.
scented voice of hers, what in the name o' eom


86               BARNABY, THE SANDIIILLER.

men sense could you adone, come'to the case in
l an' ?" dermanded Barnaby, in a' way which
showed that he wished to know the reason why.
iYou dr'en't a Utah Bi-igham Ybung.polygam-
iponous Mormon, be yef?  Dpn't see but you're
jest as bad of noi- she -is. You're not quite the
cre'tur' .,thought ye -rs. Other' must be a sort
spot som'er's 'bout thet mug o' your'n. , I ask
yourardi-g, Oapting, and l'm willing to be for-
giyen if I'a wrong, which is more n6i some is."
" I wish they would give me that  cance
gain, to be shot oi' married I"groaned Felix,
ui'aiely pinned to the wall by Barnab'sar-
~ument-
iW hat's thet' cried the latter, starting tow-
Ad' the door suddenly.
Felik listened.
"'Tis the tread of armed men," he said.
"Ait meait us, I'mnafeard " responded Barna..
,y; anxiously.
"If it does,' aid' seSt'riking a table near
him with il fist, "I hope to Heaven they'll
make an end of the business ; for, seriously, im
tired of this confounded Wdrld 's
" IDbai' pray for ne !" interposed Barnaby,
with some alarm. "You needn't count me in
oh the last stauzy. I' hate death like p'ison I
Durned if f won't  ng back and fight again it
along as I ensatan'!"
" 'oriard-rmarch. File right!'
he ordei's edaim from the hall, and immedi-
diat'ely Westerly's old friend, the Sergeant, ap-
peared at the door, and his nine men of matri-
monial meaiofy filed into the roomh, and quiet-
ly' sur'ounded master and man. Felix gazed at
these unannoiiced visitors with unqualified
ainazement; but to say that he was terrified,
would be doig injustice to his feelings.
Sitriihteriing up with military stiffaess, he be-
held these movements With gi-ha calmneis.
"I trust you have been well, Sergeant,-since
We last parted ?" he said; iroiieally.
The Sergeant bowed slightly, and answered-:
"Close up, mhen ! Mr. Westerly, follow me.
Forwaid-inaren! Corne along, Sandhiller."
These ommands were biriefand sharp. With
head ei'ect, Felix obeyed, was dond deted through
the hall and up stairs.  Barnaby,.imitating the
coolness of his friend, kejt pace with him, step-
pmig very higih, and sticking out his toes.
" Betrayed, friend Barnaby ! Betrayed, from
i'st to last! .This *hole thing lids been a se-
ries of deceptions And fallaeies."
Westerly spoke these words to Baraaby as
they marched along.
"If they weren't ilrhut me no worse nor be.
tiay nie," said Barnaby, " dunue as I keer
mucl. Don't mib''bont being' betrayed, but
diitihed if I'll stan''liaiigin' 'thout niin' trou-
bl. I'se a fool'to make ni *ilt for old' tom-
i haiy,.tht it a chal:p makes iis will, ol gits his
life iasu'ed lie's iure to pop off i suddint, tinid
htit hIad doo art -hio.;'

"In here !" ordered the Sergeant, opening a
door, and in went the Government agent, not
caring what became of him. The door was
shut behind him, and he and Barnaby fodud
themselves the sole occupants of a commodious
chamber.
"It's all the same to me," muttered 3'eliz,
and threw himself carelessly into the nearest
chair.
'' glad you'like it !" said the Sandhiller, sot-
to voco.
By-and-by Ielix arose.to his feet-very quick-
ly, rubbed his eyes, and said.:
"This is very extraordinary 1"
"Whiel do you mean ?" Barnaby inquired.,
"As I am a sinner I" exclaimed Felix, " this
is the very room that I escaped from! There
is no question about it. It is impossible to
know what this means."
Some one knocked; not at the door by whisk
they had entered, but at a side-door.
" Help yourself !" said Barnaby.  " We're
in."
'the door, swung open ,promptly, and across
the threshold stepped-Esther.
I'm prepared for anything!" observed Wes.
terly, with resignation. "Nothing will surpriLse
me after to-day."
Ills wife's maid tossed her head, and made a
conteniptuous mouth at him, to show him how
little she thought of him, and how deep hii di..
grace was.
"class ' quoth Barnaby, "please. handle
kerfully."
"What a trash this is !" retorted Esther'
flirting her skirts at the Sandhiller.
"steady,!' continued Barnaby, squinting,
"Eyes to the front. Dress up to the right."
This singular kind of sarcasm struck the
maid as being peculiarly flagrant and offer.'sive,
and she snubbed him with :
"Some folks '1 hear mifingtry orders enough
soon enough !" She shrugged her pretty shoul-
ders, and looked unfathomably knoviig. and
grandly sarcastib.
" A few paces and a empty boxes,!" she add-
ed, with a portentous gesture. " Shoulder arms,
lire !"
"ew milatry tictacs I" remarked Barnaby,
dhildly.
Felix looked through the open door and saw
his wife sitting at a table, with her back toward
him, precisely as lie had seen her on a former
occasion; He half arose and fell back, quite
overcome.
" Esther," he said, with a sepulchral attempt
at humor ; "you can write' my obituary to.
morrow."
"      shher e sets, Sirl!" exclaimed the maid,
in a most reproachful tone of rebuke, " a pinin'
and a mopin' and dyin'of; fondness '
" A  mild disorder, I hope," Wbsterly ass
swerel. "Of recent ,origin. I suspect"

" She's tonk on eve' since you ruin awa'.
She began to love you, Sir, jest as you was get-
tin' out of the window, " asserted Esther, with
a sigh of regret. "She was in for it, Sir,, by
the time you was out.}'
"3arnaby, come and prick me with your,
sword. I am not in my right mind. Stir me
up, good Sandhiller "-
Felix lay unck in his chair, and: shut his
eyes; he murmured :
"G o awa, dreams I"
-"Vouhi ind it isn't dreams, Sir I" screamed'
Esther. "Iher father, who is a. Blueb'a"d, has'
'taken it into'his-owa hands, and I seldom never'
seen him so raving. And this isn't the'worst
o it; we know that you've gone and made love
to another lady, Sir, which had the imperence
to Come into this house."
o on !'responded Felix, hopel essly. "Or
*hat is better, call'the Sergeant with his nine
Wairioirs."
"Bring me a tea-caddyi or som'at to hide in,"
*egliested  arnaby.
" Be funny, if you have a stomach for 'tI"
Eethrned Esther, significantly. "I've knowed
folks to eat their last, meat hearty." Then to
Westerly '."
" A certain somebody has heard of, your
doin's, and I don't car' to tell you who were a
listebin' at the window, when you, a married
man, wickedly wanted to perpetuate bigamy by
aakin' that bold hussy to have you, which isn't
half so good-lookin' as your own lawful wedded
wife, which saved your life by the same, when
yo was condemned to be shot in retaliation for
Confederate murders. Oh, I could tear your
ekes' out with a good will, if it would do my
poor dear mistress a mite of good!"
lfelix heard a soft sob from the table in the
other room, which put him more out of conceit
of his wife than all Esther's scoldings. Lifting
his eyelids and glancing covertly in the diree-
tion of that griefful sound, he saw the head of
his Eve go down upon her hands in a fashion
to eVince emotion. This heaped the measure
of his contempt, and he inwardly vowed to see
no mlore.
" here domes your wife's father," announced
Estliet, suddenly suppressing the shrillness of
bet voice.
This announcement really made the young
ain's blood tingle. If there were anything
that he had no relish for, it was an interview
with that' stern and' inflexible old man. His
feelings were not so blunted as nt to dread his
coming. With a smothered execration he
heard his measured and heavy step.
CHAPTER XXX.
TUS IN ONE.
In etne Borrowecsle. Felix involuntarily
aris . Ti'otigh the open door he saw the Ser-
geant and his men drawn up with ordered arms.

Father-in-law and son-in-law confronted  ach
other.  The latter quailed before the steady
look of the former.
"We meet for the second time under peeuliar
oirduanetances,' said, Borrowetle, frowning.
" We meet again, withthingasomewhat ehan -
,ed, but under circumstances stillpeculiar. We
.had, on the occasional refer to,'a brief inte-
iview, and our interview this thorning may alib
be very bxibfs I snatched ybu' from death, and
gave you rhy greatest treasure en . earth--my
daughter Diana."
The feminine figure at the table in' the ad-
joining apatrtnient, appeared much agitated.
Felix made-an impatient movement.
, "You will remember," resumed Borrowbeale,
That I placed'before you twb things-Death,
Marriage."
" You may as well waive the details" said
Felix.
" Your ehoicet is there," added Borroweeale,
pointing to the bowed figure. " Insteadiof ap-
preciating the very great honor conferred-upon
you-not to speak of the benefactioh-y*t
played the grumbler,' and escaped from.your
wife4"
" Withherwill and consentiwhich ris the only
sensible thing I know of her," Felix observed
"It becomes you not, young man; tb speak-
ill of your wife. She is young, sheis beautiful,
she is' rich. Don't'interrupt me. Oblige 'no
by turning your eyes to-that door."
Borrowscale glanced# toward the soldiers.
I=see myquondain friend, the Sergeant, and
his guard-nine me. with muskets. Proceed
kind pater."
The Federal agent bit his lips, and did- nob
seem afraid of firearms so much as the arms of
Diana.
" There is no need-to be tedious and prosy
about a plain matter," the grim old planter
went on. "I have come to restore, in some
sort, the former situation.  There sits' my
daughter, your wife ; there are the Soldiers,
Live with the one,, or die with the . others:
Choose quickly."
" Take the gal l" whispered Barnaby.
"This is what you came to say ?" answered
Felix, looking quietly at Borrowscale.
"Essentially and literally. If I have not ex-
pressed myself, in plain, straightforward Eng-
lish, I will try again."
It was undeniable that the planter had won-
derful control over his voice and expression.
" Pardon ale, if I repeat that Diana is young
beautiful, and rich."
" This is soon settled," replied Felix, his pride
supporting him. "There are several reasons
why Ishould not live-with the. lady you call
my wife. One is, that I don't love her ; another
is, that I won't 1"
" Won't are a strong, reason 1"  muttered
Barnaby.

li C1RN ABY, TIIE SANDIIILLER.


1

BARNABY, THE SANDIIILLER.

88

"Another reason is--well, another reason is,
that I won't!"
"Very explicit!" said Borrowscale, with un-
bending firmness.
" Besides. I love another woman, and I don't
like the way the whole ridiculous thing has
been managed. The fact is, it is absurd.
There's no sense in it from, beginning to end.
Such a farce would scarcelyamuse children, and
--and,on the whole, I thine it will be a relief to
be shot. For myself, I ask no kindness, but for
my friend Barnaby here, I bespeak good-treat-
ment. Give me a slip of paper, and I will give
you a writing by which you shall receive six
Confederate prisoners in exchange for him."
" Durned if I want good treatment," roared
Barnaby, " and hang me if I'll be exchangedI
I'll be shot with the Capting, and it are no-
body's business."
"Young man," said Borrowscale, solemnly.
" This is a serious moment. Follow the direc-
tion of my hand : live-die I"
The planter leveled his arm at Diana ; then
at the Sergeant.
" Die 1" answered Felix. " And you'll waste
your time in attempts to change my determine.
tion. I am so disappointed, and so heartily
disgusted with this vexatious life, that I shall
follow the Sergeant without much reluctance.
X am ready. Lead on."
" Shoulder arms! Left face-march 1" cried
she Sergeant ; and instantly there was a rattle
of arms and a movement of feet.
"Be not in haste," said Barrowseale. " Will
you not first see your wife's face?"
"Excuse me !" retorted Felix, smiling and
shrugging his shoulders.  "Hurry up, Ser-
geant."
Diana arose from the table, and, muffled
closely in the same green vail which she had
worn on the night of the marriage, approached
him. Felix turned on his heel with a bitter
sneer, when an exclamation from Barnaby
caused him to look around. He saw Anna, and
the green vail lay at her feet! He staggered
like a drunken man, and Barnaby put out his
hands to support him.
" Away with him I" said Barrowscale, a smile
for the first time appearing upon his lips.
" No !" stammered Felix, faintly. " I-I re-
voke-I-I will not be shot; unless as a pun
Ishment for my stupidity."
"Hooray I" shouted 1larnaby, capering about
the room and hugging the Sergeant, and Esther,
and anybody he could get hold of. " Iooray !
Barrowscale forever !"
The spangled cock, which had walked in with
a consequential strut five minutes previously,
few upon the mantel, flapped his wings wiph
uncommon haste. and crowed with all the game-
power he could muster at short notice.
" Bully for you I" quoth Barnaby. " What
a Abe Lakum it is, to be sure! And to think

that Anna and Diana is dientical and one of.
which ! She were good for him on her own
heels, and has overmatched him two to one. I
wouldn't min' the same."
" Sergeant, I'm afraid you've lost a job!"
cried Borrowseale, laughing, and rubbing his
hands in great glee.
" But I reckon you've saved your property,
leastwise !" answered the Sergeant, chuckling,
and sheathing his sword. "The darned Feds
is within two miles of the plantation, and you've
jest saved your cotton and your niggers, pur-
vidin' your son-in law has the proper papers to
show."
" Here they are," replied Barrowacale, thrust-
ing a package into Anna's hand. ' A man who
has pluck enough to be shot, will have pluck
enough to keep what lawfully belongs to him."
" Oh, Anna !" exclaimed Felix, quite over.
powered with emotion.. "Speak, so that I may
know I am awake."
Anna put her hand in his, and said, with a
smile :
" Remember, Sir, that I am a married wor..
an !"
Felix kissed his wife's hand.
" Tell me with your own lips, that you are
Diana as well as Anna."
" One and the same, Felix," she answered,
in a charming manner.
" Heaven be praised I" responded Felix, fer-
vently. " One more question," he added:
"-What was this marriage for ?"
" That is the serious' and unpleasant part of
it," said Anna.
" The cause of it was human selfishness,"
interliosed Barrowsecale. "I have a splendid
property, which I determined to save from con-
ifiseaion and pillage by having a Yankee son-
in-law. I found you a prisoner, liked your ap-
pearance, and thought you would do as well as
another. - That was the reason of two things:
Death or Marriage. All Anna's mischief she
must.herself explain. That packet which yoa
see, constitutes her and your legal claims to a
property worth half a million. My hopes ans
wishes are more than gratified. Be happy
with my daughter. In a few days I shall. leave
this distracted country for Europe, nor shall I
return till peace is restored."
Borrowscale shook hands with Felix, and was
considerably affected.
BaInaby Cruise jogged Felix with his elbow,
and said, staring at Mrs. Westerly :
" You've got three of 'ei in one, by mighty l
Diana, Anna, and Andrew."
" No !" queried Felix, drawing his wife tow-
ard him, and saluting her lips. " I have not
married Cousin Andrew, too ?"
" But you have, though !" said Anna.
"It's the most wonderful thing I ever knew,"
quoth Felix.
Anna's eyes flashed intelligence to his;

BARNABY, THE
Anna's hand was in his; Anna's heart was in
his.
And the soldiers went out of the room; and
Borrowscale went out of the room; and Barna-
by and his spangled cock went out of the room ;
and left Felix with love and Anna-and half a
million,
On the following' day, a column of Federal
infantry arrived, with the intention of con-
liscating large quantities of cotton stored on
ihe plantation, and of taking away all the able-
bodied negroes; but finding Felix Westerly in
quiet possession, with undoubted ownership and
known loyalty, and a handsome wife, they gave
three rousing cheers, partook of his hospitality,
and retired.
The generous Confederate who assisted Felix
and Barnaby to escape from Allerton's parti-
sans proved to be a Union spy ; and the former
afterward met him confidentially as an agent of
Government.
Barnaby forgot to send relief to Absalom
Wills till late in the day, when the messengers
cae back, saying that he could not be found.
ems weeks after, the Sandhiller discovered a

SANDIIILLER.                          g
skeleton sitting against a tree ; but was not in.
lined to the belief that it was the remaining
mortality of the overseer. He carried 'Tildy'
White the scrip and greenbacks, and--some.
yellow snuff! He sent his mother, also, some-
yellow snuff! And each of his sisters some-"-
yellow snuff! These friendly and filial acts-
showed him sound-on the tobacco question, and,
-up to snuff!
The negroes on Borrowscale's plantation con-
eluded toiremain with their new Federal mas-
ter. However, a general stampede of blacks
took place about that time ; and General Grant's
army received many contrabands with arms in
their hands.
Barnaby Cruise still keeps the spangled
cock; but is obliged to leave it at home when.
on secret duty, being at the present time em-
ployed much as a National scout; a service to
which he is particularly fitted on account of his
knowledge of the ,country. The Sandhiller is
the best hand at telling a story in the Depar-
ment of the Southwest.
[ras am


'REDEBIC A. BRADY'SCATALOGUE.
BRADY'S CELEBRATED " MERCURY" STORIES.

.t

i400ot0the 8oGrut ,       or th  Union   an-      This Giles Hilton become. possessed of- is
geti Atle nfth Gi-at IRebellhon. By Dr. J.   valuable diamond which he las'given to Mr. Mea
I. Ebi',b fi. 'landintfel' illustrated with eight  the dealer ip precioub stonesto sel bfor hihi, an
beautif l ea gmage frbueddsighs by brley. This  aes an advance of ten thousand pounds aps i
uent awds stahtytb  iVe -a number of vivid       tedmond is in the-possessicn of the jb
sceare the ai i wi of the, United States, .ui- eler it is stolen and a false stone put ins itples
- der!thladifilhitittisht bfPtslidenttbraham Lin-  which is only discovered whenGilescalls fblmor
solnt This Sitotto ik' i kihdol' Spy foi- the fede-  inoney- lie is arrested for changing th  stmn
cal forces under that brave man Gio. B. McClel   and 'trying to defraud the jeweler. He itfindM
1ani ald'givestmtnh ithable iriformatidh in refer  acquit'ted of the charge-by the confessioh of sh
esed to the ptstitinh of the ttofs~ ih opposition.  aitoim  th}iefand he is restored to fsxar. Thisabl
Ioi.pdses aeveraltitenbth otir the couifedei-Eta  a ds'in interestingscenesardis-recemraende
armq, *ad whit. asking obsoitibns fo ' i re  with niuchpleasure to the reader. Price,..$O ti
.oe#'meets with truanyplesrit tndlotdrh Very un-
pleasant adventures. Scotto is taker' plebretby P#tfi'it CI      ' ; A story  uothe Ar
-omie of theBlack- Hors.i Cav4tl iatrid Wlidn'ked  can Revol'tion. By Sylvanus jobb Jr. illustra
tej Ji.eauregard to take the-oathlvf a lffle an   t:ad with designs by Darley. ,This story is printed
the Confederacyr replies is followiznr lnggt  om gbod large type and is therefore easily tobe
.  If .allthe trees inyorder udW'noi,4tid  rsal ':'hWeophg scenes.areduring.the dairk
aill he branches and letver-e'd''tit h beg'orig "yday et the'Arke rican levolution, and commendcelde tesgrwn on  sr  a~otlbt i  h  er17.WieaBiih.na"frde
.n~aill the, grass'growinbroundleu ?arh aydekdtkbut in the year 1775. While a Br-itish .Naval: force
rules,' andIif all the sun-bedtlns let( doset  fre d #i htW 1th'hhieor of lMassachusegts. an iarrr W"
tieaten was rebel haltere' l.awear- toyat ati  quiteditlie good ity of joston.  T e tre
would'nt swear allegiance to your one-horse con-  blb agettt' Egish tyranny was then brewing, sal
care! You wince,rdo'-yet Prehaps you ain't in 1 little eord°be said1by either Whig or Tory to each
thernatur' 'o things; dead to condemnation and re-  other that was not termed menacing and inlans
snore. Think of what you've lost! You've lost mal'le-
the Revolution ; you've lost your history; you've  " Either the English King must withdraw his
lost the Cowpens; and the memory of the Swamp  troops and concede to the reasonable demands of
Fox, and the Santee !"                         the colonies, or else---"
There are very many such beautiful and home-   " What ?" asked the stranger, as Vincent Gray
thrust in this work, which the author presents to hesitated.
the readers. Price-...........-........$0 25     "Else the colonies will make their own bar-
gets    ade ;  or the Masked Robber of        gain, even at the point of the bayonet !"  This
Hounslow Heath. A Romance of the Road. By      was said in a low, firm tone, which told what the
Dr. J. H.' Robinson. This book introduces the  speaker meant; and that it was the sentiment of
reader to many scenes in the life of an English  others besides himself.  .e
Captain Vincent Gray with a small sloop-rig~e
Highwayman in the times when the country was   f  aptin boat Gres a Emlsorigge,
et gridironed over with railroads and traveling  nihermants boat captures an English brigantires
-after Steam-horses prevalent.' As the weary way- and with that vessel becomes the " Patriot Cruis.
aftr Seamhores revlen. A  th wery ay- er.1 There is much interesting adventure in the
darer travels homeward he is halted on the road
by " your money or your life !"  But that is in the  cruising of that brigantine under Gray that wil
past. The interest of this story consists in des-  pay the reader for its perusal. Price.....$0 25
eribing so beautifully very many incidents of dar- The Sword Maker of the Santee ; or
jag as exercised by the bold and bad men of for.  Hir, the Hunchback. By Dr. J. H. Robinson.
mer times   This story is illustrated by nine beau-  Eight full-page engravings from designs by Dailey.
.tiful engravings from designs by Darley and its This tale opens in South Carolina in the days of
priceis..............   ...........$0 25    the American Revolution. The early scenes open
Blanche ; or the Lost Diamond.        A Tale     with arrest of an American who for British gold'
of the Lights and Shades of London. By Septi- , became a tory spy. He is in prison, condemned
mus R Urban. Beautifully illustrated with ele- to die the death of aspy, when he is visited by a
gant designs by Darley. The opening scene is in loyal young lady to whom he had been engaged
the Weaver's Home.                            to be married, but who, while she pities his un-
" Husband-Giles--dear Giles. Oh, say a word  fortunate position, despises him for the part he
to me--to the little ones. God sees us yet, dear has taken--that of a Spy on his own countrymen.
-Gilee, and will send us help.  I am  not hungry  ' General Marion is here presented to the reader.
-oh, no, no ! and I don't think Mary and Luke  This Hirl is a loyal man and makes swords of a
are very hungry, dear Giles. They will soon sleep.  superior quality for the Americans.  He is hump.
I will go out and see if-'if I can borrow-"    backed and deaf, and is almost thot for failing to
" Hush, Emma, hush-no! no! It is not bor- . give the countersign to the sentinel when demand-
row. It is bueg-beg. You mean beg."            eh   There are very many scenes of deep and an-
Here apparently is a weaver and his poor fami-  sorbing interest in this work that will repay the
by in a state of starvation. This is one of the  reader for the outlay of money and time required
.ade pictures. Now for the light one.          in their perusal. Price..............0 2$
W   Copies of the above books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage.
Bend Cash orders to Frederic A. Brady, Publisher, No. 22 Ann Street, New-York.

I
at
la
re
a
5

Q
.
of

I.
N
a
0
It
e
S
S
t
h
1
r
I
r
r

ALTFREDERIC A. BRAD' CATALOGUE
BRADYtS CELEBRATED " MERCURY) STORIES.
Buckeye Ranger.          A Tale of the Kane Good4br-Noting Diok.; or a Hero t
sas Uuating grounds. By Dr. J..H. Robinson.    Humble Life. ;By Dr. 5. U. iRoinsion. i A
Six-full page engravings from designs by Darley.  etory of our own times,and certainly.one e the
Here we have a story of :that celebrated .state of  must .harming of ifietionswe)have ever perused.
which Han. Horace Greeley.made such an entra-  Thecharacters.are drawn :with fidelityto natue,
e diary time about. The reader of this work  and the incidents,-by their 4iversified :chpractar,
willbe much enlightened in reference to society  keep theattentionalive torthe epd"--New York
i. that far-off country. A  great deal of adven-  Dispatch. Ulustrtedby McClellan. Price.$0 50
ture, both iby male and female :frontier people.
;Price...........................$0 25 TheYoung          Ship wright.      By M. 1.
Errym. An exciting tale of the sea, and decid-
The golden Feather ; or the Buccan-              edly the best of this.popular author's works.
eer of King's Bridge. By Arthur M. Granger.       Price......    ................$0 2
Handsomely illustrated with numerous engravings
frotn designs by Darley. This is a . story full o The  ItRoen.arnes.;  or  tUe hwtted
strange and exciting interest relating to matters  Manor.  By. M. J. Errym. A very igteresting
of the last war with England, in our own neigh-  romance of incidents, profusely illustrated, and
borhood. Fangliah officers play parts with some  the characters are well developed, and their
of our American friends, that will much interest  idiosyncracies clearly defined. -Price... .$Q 15
the raew-br. The book is published at the lowto
price2.......................5                oOC       ,t      OVr ; or      e8pptf
The Maniaa's Secret ; or the Privasteer           hn Wave. By     utena la  n-; '  ay. A ;piat aa
ta~le iqf the qeo. T11 9e wh49 like .fr ute sp qk-
of Messaclasnetts $ay. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr.  iage .of atcitig i ci4t  wellgcontisu@e4 p'tisk-
Illustuated with engravings from designs by ,Dar-  an  of xate  s,    eld a  g  tatuyge
ley. This book is printed from large new type in  wqt  ard do wall.to -ea  at sporlt. iie ,sya ,
good style.  These stories by Cobb are well.e                      t       .        .
kn n nto the readers of this classof literate re,  oi'eoastle Yarns.  By the Late dno.
and need no recommendation from the publisher,  W. Gould, Esq. An admirably written roprance-
who has paid a very high price for the copy frori!  of the sea, and in addition to its historical Iruth,
which this book is issued. It will bear a careful it has the charm and simplicity of a Sailor's yarn.
r-eruss, for there are many points of deep .inter-  Pice.....    ..................$0
set tothe general reader.  -rice... .$O 25 X   e RivAA a  .64veturexso or he Mys.
S     NqiCe ; 'or thp Midight Queen.            teries of the Mines. By Frederick -Gerastaker.
A iTale of jllaion, Deluion,.antI lysteay. By  The(scene qf.this story -is laid in California. This
Sopejlt 51ay Qtiu on. 1ightfu page engravings isa very.exoting -story of life in 0alifornia,:at.d
frma designs by Vply.  In this hook we have   will be read with pleasure-by those who read
buneds :sf intersiing agenns ;apd ijacideuts, of  works of fiction for :the - legitimate interest in.
the Qeat Plagup in thePity pf L ndon, inbthe  sthem.. Price.....................$0 's
r 1644, intetsptwsed with mystery, magic, II- Ben Wrateiffb, the Wreeker. By M.
Sper., et.   Price..................$025   J. Errym. The ,story is an exciting adventure sy
Siver Star ; or the Mystery 9f Fottelle        flood and-field. Its author is one of the most ,o-
Hall. By Cousin    ay Caletpn, (Miss ,gnes  pular writers of the present'day,-and it is sold at
Earlie.)  A story must 'have some merits whigb. 'the low price of..................-.   4s
.oneindsin these days of novel writing. 1fhe fair  i   the  aipa.        A  Tale    " f  (
Authoress of Silveritar has not dug specially -in. , ,n                   .
taiyuewmine,,norha.she overcharged she in-    Mexicqn Marshes. By v eW. Ierbert, "the  is
Mentsbe  in her-tale with mral lectures.; nostiof  a very readab-e ,and 6ftentime thilhng tale frqm
the characters we might find :some sort of paral-  the pen of this favorite writer. We peruse4 it
:ll toin workaof established .repute. fro the  with angeat dealof pleasre ento e of aclass
m~ul ers,9f ,this tilpntgd auth ops, wre cep  i oac~n    Per    ersns ueo         hs
caa r eristi n         are c   io    in that unhappy country whose lives are full of
rse a c      tr     treat, as  ve    tr ia -adventure. -Sendfor a copy and read it."-fEaston
story of romantic incidents and ubouyn     ipn4eepPr
ptery. Pic. .de n0o50        npg i      e .rgus. Prioe.,.......        ......,.
The Flying Cloud. A Romanceof New "e Flower pfthe look.                         &amp;y PIerce
-       r   ygn  d theChagres Iyer.   pry Pee      Egan. This workhas beeq one af the unet opu-
ay g  . his 4tppy cniot                tar o id  el-  lar of recent fictions, and its reader will be 'lad,
peg ggal r         e pgqrigerlapu of ea-  of another work from the saipe pen. I ibo
e               ....,.;...........g4125   in powerful.delineations of chaete and.,adrpirhly
grougied .and stplepdid dr*matie scenes. TPh.
The itfe Raft.        By M    J. Errym.    A    Atlhenueumpay; sed we heartily endorse it. It I.
thrilling story of the seaiand rendered inensely  no a work to be described, commended or ei.
rteresei ng~ abite -forcible angl picturesque writing. .ciged-other than by.a congle f worded of advice
!Price. ..... ...9......... . ...' $925  -grad it.-'Delaware 9iaye,   Price so 5'
g; Copies of the above bopkA sept to any,qddresssin the UniietlStates. fyee of gonsqge.
' odsQsh orders to"ftedegic A. $xtdy Ptilghe'r, No..22 fun Sireot Ned.ora.


FREDEBIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.

11

FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.

The, Young Duchess; or Memoirs of a Erminie: or the Gypsy's Vow. By Cous-
Lady of Quality: By G. W. M. Reynolds. This    in May Carleton. (Miss Agnes Earlie.) "This is
is a story that enchains the interest of the reader  a sensationo" novel but one of the best of the
from the commencement and that engrosses it to class. Its incidents are thrilling and its charters
tine close, cannot be said to be wanting in many of are ably sustained to the concluian. The story
the qualities that go to make up a first-class work  opens on a stormy night in the month of Match
of fiction. Sequel in Imogen Hartland.         near the city of London and turns on the loss ofa
Price    .. .  .............,.....$0 50   child, the daughter of Earl De Courcy.  After
enHartland;    or the Star ofthe      many adventures this nobleman with his family,
Zmogen                                           accompanied by a Mrs. Tooseypegs-a very roe
Circus. By G. W. M. Reynolds. An admirable     markable sort of Amerian, exceedingly modest,
rendition of an admirable romance. A tale of the  and liberal to an extent that would astonish ordin-
.highly sensational order, and exceedingly well il-  ary mortals, one whose well-filled purse, is to use
lustrated.  Sequel to the Young Duchess.  The  an euphemismnever out of his hands-voyage to
.monelusion will be found in Ethel Trevor.     America where the lost s found.--the Lady Er-
Price  .......................$0 50       minie who as the fates will have it is deeply in
iEhel Trevor : or the Duke's Victim.             love with a Ranty of a Yankee who she finally
By G.. W. M. Reynolds. "Of the many novels of  Marries to the entire satisfaction of every actor in
the Drama, and then the curtain falls. Throwing
asam-historical, order, which the prolific pen of  lightness of language aside we speak but the,
Reynolds has given to the world, this one is per- truth when we say that "Erminie or the Gipsy's,
haps the best, because the most elaborately writ.  Vow" is one of those live novels which delight
-ten.  The leading characters are taken from'all  and is o  n   g ong hve  itves been throgts
'stations in life, and are designed with great fidel- and interest, leaving long after it has been throwdN
ity to nature. The plot is intricate but thoroughly  York Dispatch. Price..$0 50  Cloth. .$0Neyi
-worked up and the story terminates as all roman-
ces by Mr. Reynolds do, satisfactorily to the read- Love me, Leave me not.      By Pierce
er.  It is got up uniformly with the previous  . Egan, Esq. "One of Pierce Egan's best works.
editions of the author's works by the publisher Of the writings of this gentlemantit is not neces-
and is sold for fifty cents."-N. Y. Dispatch.  sary to more than say that they have been read
Vanonbu         House;-     or  the   Qneen's    with intense pleasure by thousands on both sides
W. M. Renol      . This is an of the Atlantic. Wherever the English. language
Prophecy. By G. torRtyi      ousualhiia      is spoken the romances of Mr. Egan find a welt
very interesting story, told in the usual graphic come that few of his contemporaries can boast
vein, of this well known and popular author.   coe me, eave me ot"mporarusan bat
Thos whohav mad thmseles cquante wit  --Love me, leave me not" is unusually attrac
Those who have made themselves acquainted wAith tive-the plot being worked out in a manner that
the works of this author will read this story with is rare even in the most celebrated of the roman-
avidity. The sequel will be found'in Ada Arundell.  cs the pren  h   the   ord  wthin
Price ....... .   .. ..............$ 0 50  ces the press has given to the world within the
last quarter of a centurf'."-N. Y. Dispatch.
Ada Arundell; or the        Secret Corridor.       - Those who appreciate an ingenious and intri-
By G. W. M. Reynolds. This is an excellent     cate plot, and varied and exciting incident, will
description of life in Old England in the reign of find this novel all they could desire"-Brooklyn
Queen Elizabeth. - The stry is well told and the  Daily Eagle.'
descriptions graphic and pleasing.  It is the se-  Price.... $0 50 mailed Free of Postage,
quel of Canonbury House.  Price.......$0 50 Empress Eugunie's Boudoir ; By G.
Olivia ;    or the Maid of Honor.      By G.     W. M. Reynolds.. This novel is superior to the
W. M. Reynolds. This story will exactly hit the  general average of such productions, It is high.
fancy of numerous readers. It has intricacy of ly dramatic, the situations are well managed and
plot ; characters familiar and interesting. ,It is  the plot is legitimately worked out. Complete.-
copiously illustrated in a spirited manner, and is  Price..-. -....................$0, 50
the sequel and conclusion of Ada Arundell.   Faust.    A romance of the Secret Tribun-
Price ...........................$0 50     al. By G. W. M. Reynolds. A tale of the Old
Sybil Campbell:- ur the- Queen of the            World, illustrated in the'first style of the art, with
Isle. By Cousin May Carleton, (Mis- Agnes      sixteen  superb illustratibous.  The most exciting
Earlie.) "Tl.is story will exactly hit the fancy of  work of fiction ever published., Price....$0 50
numerous readers. It has intricacy of plot, char- Romance of War;    or Napoleon's cam-
acters familiar and interesting and is coapi("sly ii-  paign in Russia in 1812. Translated from the Get
lIustrated by Darley in a spirited manner.-New  man, by Louis Rellstab. "We hold this novel the
Yorker."                                       best of its class that has for a long time appeared
"We find in Sybil Campbell an exciting series of  in the German language. It is a mastcpiece, Its
nomartic incidents, woven into'the form and con-  historical and military chapters would by their
sistency of a story chastely and skillfully devel- ability and spirit give it high rank in whatever
polped.-Scottish American Journal. Price. $0 50  county it had been  written."-Blackwood's
Neatly bound in Oloth................$0 75   Magazine. Price..................$0 75
CW Copies of the above books sent to any address in the United States, free ot postage.
$end Cash orders to Frederic A. Brady, Pub isher, No. 22 Ann Strept, %ew-Yor-

8
f
wf

sifte in   the   Saddle, or the Cavalry
Scout. By Ned Buntline, late of the First Regi-
ment, New-York mounted Rifles. Illustrations by
Darley  The author in his preface dedicates this
work to his old comrades of the First'New-York
Mounted Rifles, and the Eleventh Pennsylvania
Ovalry, illustrating, as it does, many of the most
exciting scenes through which both regiments
passed in the campaign on the Blackwater and in
ihe vicinity of Norfolk and Petersburg. The sto-
ey is written in Ned Buntline's best style, and is a
most graphic, exciting, and thrilling portraiture of
the scenes and incidents of an eventful campaign.
Mailed free of postage on receipt of price..$0 2.5
Guy Raveriel, or How        will it end.-A
Tale of New-York, twenty years ago. By Arthur
M. Grainger.' Illustrations by Darley. Mr. Grain-
ger the author has a peculiarly forcible and pictu-
resque pen, and such a one as must be requisite
for. the revealment of those startling and romantic
episodes of life in the heart of a great city, which
are not wanting when sought out as matter for the
subtle web of the romancer. A metropolis like
New-York cannot be other than a vast arena in
which all the fervid passions of human nature, its
loves, and its hates, its pride and humility are con-
tantly contending, and the glittering sparks which
. ey off from this friction are caught by the ready
pen, and combined in the mazy webs of plots and
counterplots. Mailed free of postage on receipt of
pre,...............................$0 25
lack irizzen, or the Mysterious Cruiser.
By An Old Salt. This well-known and talented
author needs no encomium; those who have read
his works know that they are compiled from the
author's personal experience, and cannot be sur-
passed in truthful depiction and interesting irici-'
dents. Mailed free of postage on receipt of the
Price.........................$025
Hollow Ash Hall, A Tale of a Haunted
House. By Margaret Blount. This book abounds
in thrilling adventures and surprising incidents
which those having a taste for the supernatural
will know how to appreciate. This elegant work
has not been surpassed by any of this talented
and charming authoress' best efforts. Author cf
" A Dangerous Woman," "Orphan of Charnley,"
" Downe Re"erve     KittyAtherton."   failed
free of postage on receipt of price.. $0 25
-ibylla Joy, or the Mysteries of the
Brown Stone House. By Dr. J. H. Robinson.-
Illustrations by Darley. This new work by the
above popular author will delight those who are
fond of striking incidents and interesting denou-
nmeats, and is one of the best of his works yet
,N~isiied., Mailed free of postage on the receipt
-'rc  ... ... ...  ..°.'..     .$0 25
Sadia, a Heroine of the Rebellion.     A tale
of this war, founded on facts with real character.
By Ned Buntline. Illustrations by Durley. This
story more accurately and truthfully depicts the
stirring scenes and incidents of the "present war
than any other tale of the American" Rebellion
gnat has yet been published. Mailed free of post.
'W  " o resripiof'prce............-0251

Noll Darker, or the (Ghost of Black A
ley.  By Dr. J. H. Robinson.   Illustrations by
Dirley. Those who hnve read "Good-for-nothing
Dick," " Scotto the Scout," " Cepherine," and
other popular Tales from the pen of the same el-
ebrated author need no word of commendation of
this new tale to induce them to bail its appearener:
with extreme delight; suffice it to say that " Nol
Darker" is a Romance of -the first class, and is a
worthy predecessor of the series of brilliant Tales
by the best writers of the age which eharacterise
the series so favorably known as the " Manovat
SToaus." Mailed free of postage oe receipt 4
Price..............................$0 25
A Marriage of Mystery, or the Lost
Bride.  By Lady Clara Cavendish, author of
" Woman of the World," "Lisa," " The Divorce"
" The Fallen Star," "Margaret,".: etc. This is
one of the most charming and instructive novels
this talented author has produced. Let all who
would enjoy a rare intellectual treat tead this
book. Mailed free of postage on receipt, of IkE
pri.es-    -.........................$0 50
Fanny De Lacy, or The Clandestine
Marriage.  By Ellen Wallace. The Clandestiwe
Marriage possesses a very high order of merit s.
a novel. Its scenes are full of thrilling interest;
its characters are persons who at once engage our
feelings; and its good style and execution are
chaste and finished. It is the best novel we hire
read for months. Mailed free of postage on ,te.
ceipt of price.....................$0 50
Downe Resa rve, or The Mystery at
Wishing Well. By Margaret Blount. Illustrated
by Darley. The readers of this really charming
and delightful tale enjoy a rich treat. Of all the
popular and attractive stories by the same success-
ful author there Is not one that equals the facinia.
ting interest which characterizes Downe Reserre.
Mailed free of postage on receipt of price, $0 50
Nellie, or The Companions of the Chain.
By Fairfax Balfour, Esq.  With 15 full-page il-
lustrations from -lesigns by Darley. One of the
most engrossing novels we have taken up for some
time. It bears the impress of a master-hand, and
gives evidence of a deep knowledge of the humas
heart. It contains a great deal of most interest-
ing reading; being one of the most extensive
books of thisclar- -containing two hundred and
ninety-three pages of closely printed matter.
Mailed free of pottage on gaaeipt of price, $0 7.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
If you do not see the Book you want
in this catalogue, do not on that account decline
sending to F araaic A. ,BaAnr, ?o. 22 Ann-st.,
New-York, for 'it. 'He -will 'send you any Book
you want-or in fact anything else, from a needle
to a Steam-engine. Enclose the money for the
Book or article you may require to the above ado
dress, and sign yaur Name, Town as d State, and
you will receive by return of mai o, express, the
Book or Article you desire.
Pe aur sand addrs1
Frederia A 'Bradre
No.22 Anat... L. V.


NFPblisher Bookseller,
No. v2 ANN :STREET, New-York,
sGlies prompt anid pari~cnlar atention to the iiynmdte eec tiOn f ery ~4
wlri p1 ?day u e ntrp tit rto hIs  pare, and the same forwarded, by mailor Axpres,4
the day ht }is received.
Hamaing fuiland complete arrangements ffort  ,.ppoe,i p i pep~r   fp *
.&amp;uAy Bootkuo. matter by  pA
Pub~iea'LOW~utCash         rcs
!m-#KyL;per , Qtr the  IT   ''eI1u~~, on tat  eftR gP'  it vWB4 era   &amp;,,
eta that the same will --'e as eap 4tiouely and carefully attended ='to -'as fIf they
were i ne, W-otk CQityA  Weone. p y qiis i : eiet re y ~d # w ,yp w4
W,,, "49 Q.Y_"e grmy~1ca-ipns should, be to me(dreo.~  wn  d
Win    a     uod A r uAy  t   i ', r 11ypacked, and "foint with their ordetg
Aibooks. .r
.    J      iQ       .    1    A    t~
~o. U  Mui     a? e   , 'It


  
             
         
       
   
